THE RING-TUM PHI

Washington and Lee University’s Weekly Newspaper
LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA, SEPTEMBER 20, 1973

November drug bust
Result in convictions

 

tepublican gubernatorial candidate Mills Godwin will speak in Lee
‘hapel Tuesday at 8 p.m. His appearance on campus is sponsored
“y the law school’s Student Bar Association. Godwin is opposing
iidependent Henry Howell in his bid to return to the governship.

Student applications due to EC
For faculty committee positions

By ROBERT PUGH
‘he Executive Committee an-
nounced Monday night that ap-
-cations for student representa-

tives on the various faculty
cs-imittees are due next Mon-

They should be placed in

t EC box by 6:30 p.m. Inter-

ws Will be held Tuesday, Sept.
25, at 6:30,

Open positions exist in the

simittees on Admissions (2

sitions), Athletics (3), Courses

Degrees (1), Financial Aid
(23 she brary ts
Vice-President Steve Greene

anAounced that budgets for the
:ous student committees were
in his office Wednesday. He
‘d that the EC is loaning the

niversity $11,680 for the Con-
t Fund. The money will be
aid next September.

in other business EC _ repre-

sentatives appointed to serve as
baison members between the vari-
student committees and the
include: Financial — Mike
uttig, Student Activities Board—

Leland McCullough, and Bob

Keatley, Mock Convention—Tom
King, Recruitment—Russ Fletch-
er, and Curriculum—Ben Bailey
and Lewis Powell.

Student Activities Board Chair-
man Mike Brittin announced that
the various campus organizations
have been alloted space either in

the University Center or Lee
Hous. Considerable debate en-
sued over the assignments for

specific groups. All organizations
should be in ther new quarters
by the end of this week.

Items on next Monday’s a-
genda include:

Finalization of the Budget.

Consideration of a proposal
to increase student member-
ship on the faculty Courses and
Degrees Committee.

Fixing a date for freshmen
applications for student com-
mittees,

Consideration of revisions in
outdated, inapplicable sections
of the constitution.and

interviews for positions on
faculty committees (Tuesday at
6:30).

Numerous convictions and
sentences were imposed on 10
recent Washington and Lee gradu-
ates and students this summer.
The convictions resulted from the
indictments handed down by a
special Rockbridge County Grand
Jury last November. The trials
were held throughout June in
Rockbridge Circuit Court by
Judge Paul Holstein.

The indictments and _ convic-
tions resulted from a valley-wide
drug operation in the undercover
stages for at least a year, super-

vised by State Police.
There were 55 _ indicwments

handed down by the Grand Jury.

The W&L students and former
students involved were:

William Garner Hummer, from
Rossford, Ohio. Hummer, now a
1973 graduate, pleaded guilty to
one count of distribution of LSD,
four counts of distributing mari-
juana, one count each for the
accommodation sale of hashish
and marijuana (distribution

charges are felonies while ac-
commodation charges are mis-

demeanors signifying sale with-
out profit). Hummer was _ sent-
enced to five years in jail for
each of four marijuana counts,
five years in prison for distribu-
tion of hashish, two years for the
accommodation sale of LSD and
one year for the accommodation
of marijuana. In addition to the
prison terms, Hummer was fined
a total of $4,000. He was ordered
to serve one year in jail and pay
the $4,000 fine.

Kevin Philip Darby from Hunt-
ington, N.Y., a senior at the time
of the arrests. Darby pleaded
guilty to five counts of the distri-

Street systems

Now that everyone has had a
chance to get used to the “no
left turn” phenomenon of Lexing-
ton for the past 10 days, the enig-
matic Lexington street system has
been revised once again — this
time to implement a one-way
traffic system to try to alleviate
the city’s congestion.

Jefferson Street will be made
one-way to the southeast, with
traffic flowing from VMI past
Wé&L into the ‘business district”.
Main Street, parallel to Jefferson
and one block over, will be one-
way in the opposite direction.

In addition, Preston Street will
be one-way from Lee to Jeffer-
son; McDowell from Jefferson to
Jackson; White from Jackson to
Main,

LIBRARY OF

WASHINGT

' }

UNTVERSITY

LEXINGTON, VA

Number |

bution of marijuana and one
count for the distribution of LSD
He was sentenced to five years
on each count. He was fined a
total of $7,000. The judge order-
ed Darby to serve one year in
prison with 29 years probation
and pay the $7,000 fine.

Douglas Brian Bruell from
Cleveland Hts., Ohio, a senior at
the time of the arrests. Bruell
pleaded guilty to four counts of
distribution of marijuana and two
counts of distribution of hashish
He was sentenced to five years
imprisonment for each charge.
He was further fined $8,000
Judge Holstein ordered Bruell to
serve one year in prison. He
will be on probation for 29 years
after his release.

Jeffrey Allan Rosenberg from
Chestnut Hill, Mass., a senior at
the time of the arrests. He pleacd-
ed guilty to three counts of dis-
tribution of hashish and one count
of distribution of marijuana. He
Was sentenced to a total of 16
years in jail and a $7,000 fine
In lieu of this sentence he was
ordered to serve two years in
jail and 18 years probation.

Daniel Silberberg, a former
student. Silberberg was charged
with two counts of distributing
marijuana. He was sentenced to
five years in jail with the last
four suspended. He was also fined
$4,000.

Alan Dewsnap Corwith from
Miami, Florida. He was a senio:
at the time of the arrests. Cor-
with pleaded guilty to one count
of the distribution of LSD and
was sentenced to five years in

(Continued on page 8)

chan ged

The move was made, accord-
ing to City Manager John V.
Doane, to alleviate congestion on
U.S. 60 (Nelson Street). Now the
traffic lights along Nelson will be
green for twice the time that they
previously were.

The “no left turn” signs along
Washington have been removed,
but the Nelson Street signs will
remain,

ye es ete tare
signs up the past 10 days, drivers
from W&L were causing a few
traffic problems of there own be-
fore realizing that, upon leaving
the University, they had to drive
up to Randolph, turn left, turn
left again, and turn right to reach
Rt. 11 north, rather than make a
left on Jefferson and travel di-
rectly to Rt. 11.

ae

OCT 17 1974
Page 2

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

  

On the student tax

According to an Executive Committee member in a statement
made Monday, the average student tax of most colleges in the vicinity
of Washington and Lee is about $40.

The student tax at W&L is $17.

With that $17, the EC must now decide the budgets of: the Calyx,
the Ariel, the Ring-tum Phi, the EC itself, the Student Activities Board
(with its subcommittees of entertainment, culture, film, and Uni-
versity Center, Contact, the law school newspaper, the Student Bar
Association, and the Publication Board. And, to make matters interest-
ing, there are about 40 fewer students here this year than last, a loss
of $680.

The University has said it will raise the student tax to $30 per
student... . next year.

Meanwhile, the university has also at least promised reimburse-
ment of expenditures of the EC from its Reserve Fund, which totals
over $11,000 at the moment. This means the fund can be depleted,
but it will be reimbursed by the university next year.

Does the EC, however, dare deplete the Reserve Fund? We think
not. The fund has historically been used for special purposes not
generally allowed for in the yearly budget, say, a speech by Bill
Russell, and funds for the rugby club, which is not connected financi-
ally with W&L athletics. There is also that always possible disaster
which must be considered. What if one or more of the organizations
under the EC went into debt?

Unfortunately, it appears that little can be done for this year,
Each organization will have to tighten its belt for at least one year
while waiting for the harvest. But when the harvest comes, will the
relative wealth of the increased student tax cover up the fact that
the tax still will be below par when compared with most area schools?

—P.J.L.

A change for the better

With a new year and a new editorship, we are bringing to Wash-
ington and Lee a new format for the Ring-tum Phi, Instead of last
year’s larger four-page or six-page issue, which made an excellent
placement and which was probably often used as such, this year we
are turning to an eight-page, tabloid paper.

The purposes of the changeover are several. First, the move is
economic. We will essentially be printing at the cost of what was a
four-page issue last year. With a menial student tax of $17, the
Executive Committee has been forced to cut corners, and so has the
Phi.

Also, we hope to make the Phi look more like a newspaper through
the change in format. We hope to experiment in style and general
layout in hopes of improving the paper’s readability. In addition, the
eight-page format will allow us to physically separate the paper more
ably into news, sports, columns and opinions, and features.

We are also attempting to cut down the total advertising in the
paper. This move, combined with the spread of ads over eight pages
instead of four or six, will also improve the Phi aesthetically.

But primarily, we are hoping the new format changes will stimulate
a similar change in content of the paper. For the past few years, the
Phi has been wallowing in the mire of ho-hum articles of nine
inches length which could tell just as much in three inches. We are
planning to provide more concise writing in our smaller format, not
only to conserve space, but to improve readability as well.

The trend this year will be toward not just news, which it at
times actually rather scarce in this community, but to news analysis—
the “why” of news reporting which is so often left unanswered.
Instead of covering in a 10-inch story a concert in Lee Chapel (which
indeed will not be totally neglected), we hope to devote nine inches
of that space to matters of more importance to the W&L student.
And we hope to do this objectively, marking opinion as opinion and
news as news.

To do his, we need your help. If something is wrong, write a letter
to the editor about it. If we can’t help resolve the problem, at
least we'll expose it. Raise a little hell.

Who knows, perhaps there are a few Watergates around here to
be uncovered...

—P.J.L.

 

OUTLOOK and REVIEW!

Thursday, September 20, 1973

 

@

 

 

 

| ~¥ |
: § a
ee e
a .
—— | >=
a. Las ‘
hea G
|e Pa
——_ beng) nee

   
    

; +e
lt lll Nt i tlhe El idl, ws se

‘

at

 

Sere A
| 2 eh.
ee

\ coer

| wn

t - = ~

bee ee” ew
Feta

The 1974-75 competition for
grants for graduate study abroad
offered under the Fulbright-Hays
Act and by foreign governments,
universities and private donors
will close Oct. 20.

Full grants, which provide
round-trip transportation, tuition
and maintenance, are available to
33 countries. Fulbright-Hays
Travel Grants are offered to 12
countries, and _ private donor
awards to 33 countries.

Candidates must be U.S. citizens
at the time of application, hold
a bachelor’s degree or its equi-
valent by the beginning of the
grant, have language ability com-
mensurate with the demands of
the proposed study projects, and
good health. Application forms
and further information may be

 

Fulbright applications due Oct. 20

obtained from the campus Ful-
bright Program Adviser, Charles
W. Turner, in duPont Hall 1.

NOTICES

Writers for the Ring-tum Phi
in the following fields will meet
with their editors at the specified
time and place this week for as-
signments: Feature and columns—
Thursday, 4:30 p.m., Rm. 114, Stu-
dent Center; news—Thursday, 5
p.m., Rm, 114, Student Center.

% BY aie

All students registered to vote
in Lexington, check immediately
to see if you are still on the elec-
tion rolls. If you have any ques-
tions or are no longer on the
rolls, contact Steve Woodruff,
463-9287, or Dr. Tom Imeson in
the chemistry department.

THE RING-TUM PHI

The Ring-tum Phi is published on Thursdays during the college year.
It is printed by the Journalism Laboratory Press, Washington and Lee
University. The mailing address is Box 899, Lexington, Virginia 24450.
Entered as second class matter September 29, 1946, at the Post Office,
Lexington, Virginia 24450, under the act of March 3, 1879. Subscription
rates: $6.00 for the school year, $3.00 for the semester,

PAUL J. LANCASTER
Editor-in-chief

Me RO gs ss SS Jess Reeves
Ty We aaa sis os ss es Bill Austin
POMS eo ss sks, Bill Robinson
PeRtures Hetere ... Palmer Trice, Robert Gurnee
RE se eo es David Lee
Pe ss Dave Finnell, John Killpack, Chuck Alt
COMSPTIIOPE ss ss, Tim Moore, Steve Yevich, Tom Rittenburg,

Rome Scott, Vance Marlowe, Bill Flesher, Paul Morella

ANDREW J. A. CHRISS
Business Manager
Thursday, September 20, 1973

Black administrator to aid |

THE RING-TUM

PHI

 

In recruitment activities

By TROY FERGUSON

The Rev. Lutrelle D. Rainey,
minister of the First Baptist
Church in Lexington, has joined
the staff of Washington and Lee
University as assistant dean of
students and lecturer in sociology.

Rev. Rainey, who began his
work as assistant dean of stu-
dents on August 15, will center
his attention on counseling stu-
dents in the Washington and Lee
community, but is also adviser

to the Student Association for
Black Unity, assisting exchange
students from area women’s Col-
leges in their adjustment to Wash-
ington and Lee, and will be as-
sisting in the recruitment and
admissions of black students to
Washington and Lee.

He added that he will not begin

his teaching duties until the
winter term.
His work as a minister and

counselor are related, Rev. Rainey

Ask Traveler

Advice of a different color

Freshmen queries

Q@.—During a hectic Open House last week, someone substituted a
blank check for my rush card, so that instead of a tentative ask-
back for No. 9, I have a very definite date with the Cold Check
Committee on the 23rd. What can I do? And do they serve beer

or soda pop at these things?

.—Let’s face it, frosh. The only thing they’ll serve will be your head
on a out-of-town platter. In desperation, you could join the
Committee itself and claim immunity, but if you’re smart you'll
give Louie a call for a big no-questions-asked loan. Good luck
and when you call, make it after dinner cause I don’t get home

till then.
m% %
Q.—Where is Payne Hall?
A.—The University of Michigan.
as %

% i

% a

Q@.—As a freshman, I’m being forced to take courses for my distribu-
tion requirements that I can’t possibly pass. Any loopholes avail-

able to save my skin.

A.—No problem, youngster. Simply pick up a drop-dead slip for that
particular class, pre-date it yourself, get your adviser to sign it,
but then instead of turning it in immediately, just keep it handy
in the back of some Playboy until the very end of the semester
when your goose is about cooked grade-wise. Then casually drop
the thing (the slip, not the magazine) on the registrar’s floor
and when some poor clerk comes up with it, thinking it’s been
there for three months, you’ve got a great alibi ready, plus

shifting the glare of ineptitude over from your “F”

to the

stupid computer. See what I mean? You may eventually get nailed,

but it was a clever try!
Q.—What if I DO get caught?

A.—Call me after dinner. And have your checkbook handy.

pointed out, because as a minister
he is trained in counseling. Dean
Lewis G. John added that Rev.
Rainey was not hired specifically
because he was a minister, but
that his counseling experience
will help in his position as dan.

“T will attempt to aid students
with academic, family, commun-
ity, or other such problems or
with the adjustment to college,”
Rev. Rainey said. He urged stu-
dents who wish to talk with him
to call him at extension 240 or
go to his office at room 207 in
the student union.

“My office hours at W&L are
from 9:00 a.m. to 1:00 p.m., but
I am available at my office in the
First Baptist Church or at my
home on 212 Massey Street any
other time a problem occurs,”
Rev. Rainey said. “All meetings
are confidential,’ he added.

Rev. Rainey said he will be
working with the Student Recruit-
ment Committee on recruiting
black students to W&L, and with

(Continued on page 8)

WGL in Astan

By STEVE YEVICH

Washington and Lee has been
chosen as one of 60 American
colleges and universities to par-
ticipate in a new postgraduate
Asian studies program sponsored
by the Henry Luce Foundation
Ine., of New York.

In this new effort, a_ select
group of students whose interests
lie in areas unrelated to Asian
studies will be given the op-
portunity of spending a year in
Asia, working in widely varied
professional fields. This approach
in selection is unique, according
to the foundation, in that it favors
potential leaders in non-Asian

Good sounds from across the

By W. PATRICK HINELY
Living in the Material World
George Harrison
Apple SMAS 3410
QO Lucky Man! (sound track)
Alan Price
Warner Bros, BS 2710

What we have here are the two
best lyric-and/or vocal-oriented
albums of the year thus far from
England. George Harrison has
come as far since his years with
the Beatles as Alan Price has
since leaving the Animals. These
two records for man almost per-
fectly complementary pair in
what the two poet-musician-phi-
losophers are saying. Price and
Harrison have managed to main-
tain very perceptive perspectives
on the course of events taking
place on our plant. Harrison’s
Indian-influenced spirituality
speaks down lovingly to everyday

banal existence while Price’s
hardass cynicism gives a very
realistic sense of the chaotic laws
of chance which govern so much
of our lives.

As far as the music itself is con-
cerned, both men are using it
mainly as vehicle for the lyrics,
Harrison’s mode of presentation
is somewhat sweeter than Price’s;
the overall sound is much like
that of All Things Must Pass.
George makes beautifully polish-
ed music which is possible only
with first-rate knowledge in the
use of a recording studio. Un-
fortunately, he had _ production
assistance from Richard Perry,
one of the top-40 crowd's studio
wizards. Some of it sounds al-
most teo good,

Price, on the other hand, is
much looser, In Lindsay Ander-
son’s film of the same name, Price

and his band play most of the
songs on camera. (They are part
of one of the movie’s casts.) His
style is far from flashy; it shows
the ruffled sort of cooled-out
feeling he has grooved himself
into through years of playing
clubs around England. He comes
on lightweight, almost like Rudy
Vallee at times, but his lyrics
are far from lightweight. If you
have any pretensions about your
own personal purity, Price’s songs
will probably give you a well-
needed slap in the face,

Harrison, as usual, has an all-
star list of sidemen, including
Nicky Hopkins, Klaus Voorman,
Jim Keltner, Ringo, and Jim
Horn, the latter contributing some
excellent sax work. Ravi Shankar
and Zakir Hussein do some fine
sitar and tabla work on the title
cut.

  

Rev. Lutrelle D. Rainey

study program

fields rather than Asian special-
ists or international affairs ex-
perts, as in other fellowship pro-
grams.

According to a statement in the
Luce Foundation’s annual report,
the program is designed to give
young Americans possessing lead-
ership qualities a firsthand look
at Asia “at a flexible and forma-
tive time in their careers.” The
ultimate purpose of the undertak-
ing is to develop an American
leadership fully aware of cultural
differences between East and
West and thus capable of deal-
ing realistically with Asia.

(Continued on page 8)

Atlantic

Price’s band is somewhat less
distinguished; all are veteran Eng:
lish session and club players.
They do their work very pro-
ficiently, giving Price’s voice and
keyboards an excellent base to
work from. Price’s keyboard
work, particularly on the two in-
strumental cuts, is tastefully exact
in its simplicity. ;

These two albums give us both
sides of the coin. Price speaks
of the ups and downs of life
while Harrison concentrates on
our ability to raise ourselves. The
two discs balance material and
spiritual-plane realities and philo-
sophies quite well. They are both
extremely valid for us today, be-
ing children of the atomic-elec-
tranic age whether we like it o
not.

These are albums of substance.
Page 4

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

\\wkashington and Lee
welcome

» freshman ‘

. grater
Glass. le Ue
. A

 

ey

 

 

  

   

pig
Ms
. f
ye
Hime ia ME Lts

 

 

 

Hamric and Sheridan
JEWELERS
Watch and Jewelry Repair
Hand Engraving & Class Rings
463-2022

 

 

 

Lexington and the world

By ROME SCOTT

This is the way it is—an en-
tertainment columnist in Dead-
wood, Va. has little or nothing
to write about. No big news. A
microcosmic parallelism of the
United States entertainment
world, Lexington has a tendancy
to ignore the growing needs of
vouth for an outlet of artistic
drives.

In are effort to push a hesitant
and somewhat unwilling financial-
controlling minority to an under-
standing of the need, this column
is directed at building enthusiasm
within the listening and viewing
public to the point of creating
an active demand for a recogni-
tion of its wants and needs in the
entertainment field.

The attempt to manufacture en-

Academic

By TOM RITTENBURG

As a matter of record, and as
proof to skeptics that changes do

occur at W&L, the Phi makes
note of these changes in the
faculty.

Of greatest importance; Dr.
Robert McAhren, an associate pro-
fessor of history, has been named
associate dean of the College.
Kenneth Lane, Jr., the director
of volunteer services at W&L,
has been made associate dean of
the College. Kenneth Lane, Jr.,
the director of colunteer services
at W&L, has been made associate
dean of students.

Nine other faculty members
have also received promotions.
Promoted from associate to full
professor were Drs. George Gil-
man and W. Barlow Newbolt of
the physics department. Dr.

George Whitney of the chemistry
department, and Delos Hughes of
the politics department. Promoted
from assistant to associate pro-
fessor was Dr. Ramsey Martin of

 
 
 
  
    
 

 
 

Wendell’s
Barber Shop

OPEN 9-6

 

9 South Jefferson

Closed Wednesday

: FOR YOUR EXTRA PIECES OF FURNITURE
: Varner & Pole

115 Main St.

— Lexington, Va.

Thursday, September 20, 1973

thusism
life here
there is
ington,

time to

will take two aspects of

into account: although
little going on in Lex-
things do happen from
time. These events can
ignored but neither can
the entertainment in the outside
world,

IN LEXINGTON: Saturday
night, frat combo parties cranked
up for the first time. After wand-
ering around for awhile and put-
ting an ear to various walls. a
locally-born group called “Daddy
Rabbit” finally gave the critic
what he wanted to hear.

Of all the repro-groups in town
that night, the big “Rabbit” had
the spark. The four man band
kicked out a sound that gleamed
with a party scene—brightening
gleam.

iot ba

The entertainment scene

More about “Daddy Rabbit” in
a later column. Suffice it to say
the group is well-worth heaving

IN THE WORLD: John Phillips
heads up a growing conting:nt
concerned with payola in major
American record companies. He
claims that Dunhill has rippec. off
at least $60 million from resérv-
ing musicians by selling records
returned from distributors to the
companies without giving the
artists involved their royalties

After a record-breaking concert
tour, Led Zeppelin had more tian
$180,000 stolen from their l.otel
deposit box, the groups last nizht
in America. At last word. the
culprit was still unknown ai. a
still-rich Led Zeppelin uncon-
cerned.

changes announced

the philosophy department, Norris
Aldridge, John Emmer, and
Thomas Jones of the P.E. depart-
ment were promoted from in-
structor to assistant professor
along with O. Kenneth Barnes III
of the drama faculty.

Seven members of the faculty
were granted university spon-
sored leaves for part or all of the
1973-74 academic year. Gone for
the entire year will be Dr. Milton
Colvin of the politics department,
Dr. David Elmes of the psy-
chology department, and Thomas
Vinson of the mathematics de-
partment.

Absent for the Fall term only
will be Dr. Gerard Doyon of the
art department, Dr. H. Marshall
Jarrett of the history department,
and Mario Pellicciaro of the
classics department. W. Dabney

Washingion aud Lee Uninersity
Bunkstore
\ Wide Variety of Paperbacks
Charge Accounts for AM Students
Special Orders Quickly Placed

DEDICATED TO THE
FINE ART OF BROWSING

SCOOOSESSOSSHESSSSESOSSEHSSOSHEESSESSHEHHEHSHSHHHSEH OS

Stuart of the English departinent

teri,

Eight teachers will be new to
the undergraduate faculty wile
two others will teach in the
School of Law. Returning to W&L
will be John K. Jennings as
associate professor of journa‘ism.
Named visiting associate protes-
sor of accounting was Dr. Ray-
mond Heatwole. New assistant
professors will be Dr. Sandra
Keith (wife of Dr. Philip Keith
of the English department) in
mathematics, Douglas Groot and
Herman Kaufman in Law. The
new instructors will be Gordon
Spice in music, Stephen Southall
in psychology, W. Howard Eanes
in journalism, Pamela Simpson
in art, and John Handelman in
politics.

SSSCHSESESSESCSETESSESSSESESSESSEHESESESSESESESSEESE
Thursday, September 20, 1973 THE RING-TUM PHI Page 5

 

  

up the Genesee River.

 

_ With the af@ of a few thousand pounds af (At Kodak, we were working on environmental improvement
nisms, we're helping to solve the water pollution problem long before it made headlines.) And the pilot project worked
. Maybe the solution can help others. so well, we built a ten-million-dollar plant that can purify
What we did was to combine two processes in a way $6-million gallons of water a day.

that gives us one of the most efficient water-purifying sye- Governor Rockefeller called this “the biggest volun
tems private industry has ever developed. tary project undertaken by private industry in support of

One process is called “activated shudge,” developed § New York State’s pure-water program.”
hy man to accelerate nature’s microorganism adsorption. Why did we do it? Partly because we’re in business to

What this means is that for the majority of wastes man can make a profit—and clean water is vital to our business. But in
produce, there is an organism waiting somewhere that will furthering our own needs, we have helped further society’s.

happily assimilate it. And thrive on it. And our business depends on society.

The breakthrough came when Kodak scientists found We hope our efforts to cope with water pollution will
a way to combine the activated sludge process with a trickling inspire others to do the same. And, we’d be happy to share
filter process and optimized the combination. our water-purifying information with them. We all need clean

We tested our system in a pilot plant for five years. water. So we all have to work together.

Kodak
More than a business.

 

 
Page 6

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

Thursday, September 20, 1973

>

The difficult twilight

By BILL AUSTIN
Sports Editor

While advancing age carries a
host of difficulties for all men,
its message seems nowhere
swifter, or crueler than _ for
athletes of exalted physical skills.
Finely tuned bodies are humbled
and slowed in their thirties; the
label of “old” claims even the
most durable of stars by age 40.
Thus, the recent accomplishments
of Hank Aaron and Muhamand Ali
bear special significance. For too
many figures of sport, the final
moments mock previous achieve-
ments, blinding the memories of
fickle fans to a nobler past with
the painful failures of the present.
Ex-champs like Floyd Patterson
plod onward in the hopeless quest
to regain supremacy. A few, such
as the football quarterback, Joe
Kapp, rise quickly to fame, but
more quickly still, plummet to
anonymity. Upon the pair of
Aaron and Ali, age has bestowed
a kinder sort of boon: the ma-
turity necessary to conquer multi-
tudinal pressures and doubts both
those self-made or plied by others.

For Aaron, his much-heralded
challenge of baseball’s career
home run record has brought the
Atlanta outfielder into direct con-
flict with the sport’s grandest
mvth-hero. In Babe Ruth, he
encounters the — bubble-bodied
slugger who caroused his way
through awesomely productive
seasons with the Yankee dynasty
of the ’20’s and ’30’s. Alas, Aaron
heads no powerhouse at Atlanta.
In fact, the Braves have been
mired in a sub-.500 year of inept
pitching and woeful fielding. In
consequence, the pressures of
publicity have fallen all the more
squarley on Aaron’s home run
totals. Despite an assortment of
nagging injuries and the strain of
39 years, this quick-wristed ghost-
battler has averaged a home run
every 10 at-bats, totaling 711
round-trippers at last count.

Much has been made over the
quantity of hate mail garnered
by Aaron’s challenging of sacred
memories. He has endured, with
dignity, a variety of racial slurs
concocted by those who somehow

  
   
 
   

+

~*~ ee i

IE,
Ae

te

KEYDET-GENERAL
RESTAURANT

Prody Qaneoof the Sanileyv bares

Complete Facilities For

} ~=Banquets, Weddings & Receptions ’
VOR RESERVATIONS, PHONE f63 2043
: One Mile West ol Lexongtonon U.S. 60

find the boyish, white-skinned
ruth a more fitting god of the
home run ball. Aaron’s ability to
weather the slander, and to com-
pile a batting average of .290,
makes his slugging achievements
indeed remarkable.

Like baseball’s future “Sultan
of Swat,” Ali has been struggling
with a mythical figure, but the
larger-than-life shadow with
which he must grapples is his
own. Truly, this presents a prob-
lem more telling than does
Aaron's Yun With Ruth, for
even the fearless Muhammad
must search soul and memories
for the former glories, being
trapped in a never-ceasing com-
parison of the past with perform-
ances of the present. As a result,
the former world-champion in-
cessantly seeks proof of his
once-unparralleled footwork, or
evidence of the flicking jab that
could cut and daze an opponent
with devasting effectiveness.

The three-and-a-half year lay-
off haunts him with a deadly
persistence. It divides his career
into a drama of two acts, the
first portion a brash rise to ex-
cellence and flamboyance, the
latter, a mixture of courage and
tragedy, always overshadowed by
the question: What if Ali hadn’t
missed those valuable years of
his prime? In his bout with Joe
Frazier, AH lost a—fight Dut
humbled what had been a true
fighting machine, rendering the
winner easy prey for the head-
hunting George Foreman. Yet,
Ali’s own fortunes hit bottom
when a lightly regarded Ken Nor-
ton smashed his jaw and his ego
last spring.

From that unexpected and pos-
sibly culminating defeat, Ali
grimly trained his body back to
a trim 213 pounds, and prepared
to again battle the surprising
Norton. In a September 10 bout,
Muhammad gained a measure of
revenge, and a chance to seriously
contend for the heavy-weight
title, by defeating a broken jaw
and a valiant come-back effort
by his formidable foe. At the

fight’s outset, the swiftness was
Ali’s feet and

there, in in his

  
 
   
 

AND
MOTEL

Superb Dinwiy va

Precoresque Atmosphere,
Serving | ood ne the .
Pane Proadtinoe ol Virgen,

e

punches. However, it was equally
apparent that time has eroded the
capacity for endurance that bless-
ed a youthful Cassius Clay. There-
fore, any chances Ali holds for
success against Foreman seem to
diminish with each delay, as the
fighter’s remaining speed slips
away.

Some observers, notably the
omi—opinionated Cosell, see Ali
as a boxer who realizes his de-

cline and who must now posture
as a figure of confidence in order
to gather one final million dollar
check, in a rematch against the

(Continued on page 7)

 

Cross-country hopefuls are put through their paces, prodded onward
by senior Co-Captain Bill Kalal. (not pictured)
—Photo by

Bill Robinson

Jewelry — Pen and Ink Drawings — Patchwork

SHENANDOAN CRAFTS

25 NORTH MAIN ST.

Pottery — Ironwork — Woodwork — Weaving

Hours 10 A.M.-5 P.M. Monday-Saturday

9009000090900209000098900000000899090953909093808089860808

Dry Cleaning

Linen Service

WE DELIVER

UNIVERSITY
CLEANERS

Reliable Service In

Storage & Free Moth Proofing

Shirts Laundered
Clothing Repair

463-3622
Thursday, September 20, 1973

     

THE

RING-TUM PHI

Emmer 1s Coach-of-Y ear;
6 named All-American

Culminating a 1973 season of
outstanding achievement, the
Washington and Lee University
lacrosse squad garnered a num-
ber of impressive summer-time
accolades. Of special note was the
choice of Jack Emmer as the col-
lege division’s Coach-of-the-Year
for the second consecutive time.
He received the award based on
the voting of his fellow coaches,
a tribute to the team’s 14-1 won-
Jost record, and its lofty national

 

The Difficult
Twilight

(Continued from page 6)

once ‘“Smokin’,” now disturbingly
morose Frazier. Maybe so. But he
performs the ploy so effectively
that he remains boxing’s most
controversial figure, its master of
the shuffle, the poem, and yes,
even of skill. Surely, Foreman and
Frazier strike with bullish power,
but their styles lack the wisdom
or the imagination of an Ali.
One wonders whether the years’
passing will treat these street-
brawlers with sympathy. In fact,
Frazier already hovers’ uncer-
tainly near an ignoble_ retire-
ment, a man at odds with him-
self and his craft.

For both Aaron and Ali, the
final segments of unique careers
have awarded a measure of suc-
cess not reflected simply by home
run totals or by boxing victories.
They are men of scars and of
glories, possessors still of pride,
of dreams...

 

Need Extra Cash

rank in the final NCAA polls.

In addition, six W&L players
were tabbed to both All-South
Atlantic Division and All-Ameri-
can teams. They are goalie Skeet
Chadwick, defensemen Don Eav-
enson, midfielders Ted Bauer and
Skip Lichtfuss, and attackmen
Bryan Chasney and Sam Engle-
hart. Five were first-team All-
Americans, and Chasney an hon-
orable-mention choice.

THE

RING-TUM PHI

Page 7

 

 

 

Armed with a new coach and the wishbone offense, the Generals
prepare for their 1973 home opener against Hamilton College. Game
time for this Saturday’s contest is 1:30 p.m.

—Photo by Charles Grubbs

Navy overwhelms VMI, 37-8;
Schultze intercepted 6 times

For the hopeful of VMI, Satur-
day’s 37-8 thumping at the hands
of the Naval Academy was a bit-
terly conclusive defeat to accept.
After a respectable game against
U.Va. (a 16-0 setback), cautious
optimism seemed to categorize
Keydet expectations. However,
such hopefulness proved sadly out
of place.

Disastrously, the potentially ex-
plosive passing attack led by
quarterback Schultze never ma-
terialized. Indeed, he tossed 6
interceptions, and the stadium’s
first sellout crowd of 10,000 en-
dured an afternoon of relentless
frustration.

Cecil Cooper, Navy’s talented

junior running back, epitomized
his team’s overall domination. He
picked up 172 yards on 25 car-
ries, including a pair of touch-
downs. The Middie point total al-
so benefitted from the kicking
of Steve Dykes, who booted three

 

STUDENT LOANS AVAILABLE
NO AGE RESTRICTION

PEOPLES Finance Service

OF LEXINGTON

121 W. Nelson

$

Phone 463-3176

$

field goals in four attempts.

Holding a mere 3-0 lead after
one quarter’s play, Navy capit-
alized on three Schultze intercep-
tions in the second period, mov-
ing out to a commanding 24-0
half-time bulge. In this segment,
Cooper bulled for both his scores,
while quarterback Al Glenny add-
ed a third, this one on a 4-yard
scamper.

On this day of despair for the
upset-minded, the intermission

Selita teleietobidetaletuteletdetiietdeletetetobtobtobetobtoledutotidenies

: The First National Bank

* of Lexington
= has special checking accounts for students

ssoloboetetetoedetetohledetegetbetetefutedetetfdeteoh oetetetetofetetufutetetetetonen

probably delivered the most excit-
ment, when the Keydets and visit-
ing Midshipmen battled over the
tearing down of VMI spirit
posters. Honor was upheld, and
order eventually restored, allow-
ing the third period to get under-
way, VMI’s stanza of glory.
After two Dykes field goals
gave Navy a 30-0 lead, VMI man-
aged to export the opposing de-

(Continued on page 8)

Ms oe he nfs ole oe fe oferta fe ie

 

4

 

 

STUDENT $!

Make this your headquarters for Good Food

and Service

We have meal tickets at savings to you

SOUTHERN INN

>

 

 
Page & THE RING-TUM PHI Thursday, September 20, 1973

 

Assistant adimmistrator appointed Drug bust brings convictions

Robert lfred Weiss from
(Continued from page 3) Rainey was executive director of (Continued trom page 1) . : i ‘i ni i
NW ‘ . ee : Rasehwood, hio, a se Ol at
the Charles C itv-New Kent Counts selenn Ha sean ordered (5 serve i cAWwol é
: as ee So time of the arrests. He was found
Dean James D. Farrar on black (Va.) social ervice e agency, ant one vear of the sentence and pay ci counts of the ac
: . . ‘ & yee bile > . : onilty ] hree counts ¢ . a
recruitment ¢ é issions s before then, proje Sirec (0: 6. 2S Blue, :
recruitme Le and ag teT His : f s nen | _ eae are a $3,000 fine. —— commedation sale of marjuana.
ruiting »s will take him on ye Randolp rba onewal . i is eS z je sam a"
— Wi : ta : oe a = a ee Walter Alan K 1m) : : He was sentenced to one year in
ha ee ee = ES ‘hester. Pa. a junior at the time . ; : ent
two week trips al ‘1 ject i Chester, Pa., a juni iY a ie ] ‘ail and was fined $1,000 for each
ae ee of the arrests. Konyk pleaded ~

count. The sentences were to run

Navy tops VMI, 37-8; guilty to one count of distribut- concurrently. In lieu of the
#

In the winter term Rev. Rainey ts : ing hashish and was sentenced to sentence Judge Holstein ordered
Hi teseh an tmirocuctory Sone Highlight tS fight at half five years in jail and fined $3,- Weiss to serve 60 days in jail with

sions with prospective students.

cial welfare in the Sociology 2 000. His jail sentence was SsuUs- three years probation.
; ae ‘ ontinued from page 7) . as >was placed on five Ss See : -
partment. He mentioned the (Cont Page | pended and he was placed on five _B. Wilsie from Roanoke, Va.
possibility of his teaching a years probation. Wil ie was a former student of
ecaurse in black studies or black fense for one sustained drive and Gordon Groves from Freeport,

W GL. He pleaded guilty of one
count of accommodation sale of

a seore, The mareh was aided

igion in the spring. Bahamas, a senior at the time of

As a teacher. Rev. Rainey substantially by an end-zone pass the arrests. Groves entered a plea niclunen He was scene ts
h yes f yy” some sort of prepara- interference call against Navy. at not guilty to the charge of dis- d

4 yne year i ‘ison ¢ $1,000

Then, gambling f:r two, the Kev- a a aad, vee year in prison and a $1,0
» program in the Sociology de- hen, 8 8 es ‘ tribution of marijuana but piee fine. His prison sentence was

rtment so majors who do not dets converted, closing the gap .

i Li u = a, . LV

ed guilty to the charge of an os nonded in lieu of five years
= yj) f qQ » rr , qr Yr : $505 : SLISDELCUEL A : ve i
* on to graduate school can get 0 22, at 30-8. The fourth quarter = -comodation sale of marijuana. :

 

 

 

1 ypervi-erl rohatio

+355s with social welfare institu. ‘%@” still another Navy touch- He was found not guilty of the unsupervised probation.
tions throughout the state. down, this time registered by the = qgistribution charge. Groves was

Rev. Rainey holds the B.A. de- ReCOnG stringy. OFeRAYS UNH. fined $500 and sentenced to one rE O R S A i E
gree from Virginia Union Uni- For VMI, its initial victory still year in prison, His prison sent- | : a
versity and two master’s degrees, unattained, another chance ence was suspended and he was FCR SALE: ’68 Lincoln Conti-
sne from Pittsburgh Theological comes Saturday against Rich- placed cn unsupervised probation nental. 4-door.- all accessories,
Seminary and another from the mond, a 42-0 victor over David- for one year. Sika Wied Soke “Maes
University of Pittsburgh’s School son, Navy, meanwhile embarks George Murray Smith HI from ae 300. Call Matt Seebe
Sok Ne upon a gruelling schedule in its Richmond, Ky., a senior at the SS eebe,

Prior to his installation as confrontation with highly touted time of the arrests. Smith’s trial 133-5701, after 6 p.m.
viinister of Lexington's First Penn State, .a 25:5 numbler Gr proceeded identically the same as
Baptist sures this tae sey. Stepferd, Grove’s. His sentence differed

only in that he was fined $1,000. . :
W&L in Asian study program =
The W&L

 

(Continued from page 3) attending or has recently re-
Luce Scholars will be required ceived a degree from. At W&L, .
to hold at least a bachelor’s de- the faculty liaison for the pro- Republicans

gree, to have excelled in aca- gram is Dean Robert McAhren,
tics, and to have shown ex chairman of the Graduate Fellow-

sift ss . . S ~4 le
ceptional leadership qualities ships Committee. This commit- Se tember General
while in college. tee, after screening applicants, P

 

Fifteen Luce Scholars will be will submit no more than four Meeting
chosen annually by three reg- nominations to the Luce Founda-
nal panels of distinguished tion for consideration. b =>
| : ‘i gig ge ee y, September 20
jeaders. Each will receive a basic W&L is the only Virginia uni- Thursday , P
grant of $9000 and transportation versity asked to participate in the

8 p.m.

to and from Asia. new program. Other participat-

To be considered in the selec- ing universities include Yale
tion process, a candidate must be Harvard, Duke, Johns Hopkins Rm. 114, Student Center
nominated by the college he is and Southern California.

RING-TUM PHI

 

 

 

 

East Lexington

Round-trip jet, New York to
Luxembourg in the heart of

Europe, Sept. thru May for

} Grocery stays of up to a year. Show

| : proof of age. Book within 30
° Beer — Ice Gas days of your flight.

 

 

Party Supplies — Snacks YOU CAN BE IN
The first two copies of THE RING-TUM PHI are Opes = Seve 6 3m EUROPE TOMORROW!

ABC No, 2078—8 a.m,-10 p.m.

: . . ! Icelandic Airlines also offers
being sent to all parents of Washington and Lee stu- SHOP FOR SUNDAY one-week car, rail and ski

: . ss EVENING DINNER tours to Europe, Nov. thru
dents. If you would like to continue receiving each Ws Salk & telives Eom ean tat details Ga ace

 

 

edition of THE RING-TUM PHI, please fill out | a eo te

lowest-cost teurs to Europe

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

your name and address now and send $6.00 to: of any schedulad airline. See |
your travel agent. i
©00000000000090090090009 ——a
* ® To: icelandic Arines 8 == =
THE RING-TUM PHI * p |’ Bik Sh ® | 630 Fifth Ava at "YN. Y. 10020 j
e rauls iKe op . (212) aie 33) Toll Fre outside |
State (800) 0
: e .
Box 899 Lexington, Va. 24450 : 11 N. New St., Staunton ° 7 fend ig ider CN of ha vest Youth |
ares [9 Euro 8
° Phone 886-1310 . to welt teers :
* ® me
@ PAUL Now Excepting All @ = | gtroet i
ae... ee, eel °¢ BIKE REPAIRS at ¢ | City
$ Sears’ Lexington Store ; | State Zip .
bad : Pick-Up Every Wednesday . | My travel agent is i
RE ° Returned On Wednesday. : | i
e@ Also New 10 Speeds Batavus e | IGE: Ai ge We
= : : 1 1 z w a ¢ ied
Bikes For Sale. | *) i
be State MA eka ; ; | A NE Ss |
C9OLOHHOHSOHHOSS OOH SESESE®S

 

 
THE RING-TUM PHI

Washington and Lee University’s Weekly Newspaper

 

Vol. LXXIII

LEXINGTON,

VIRGINIA, SEPTEMBER 27,

1973

Number 2

 

Budget adopted; Phi’s funds cut $1200

By ROBERT PUGH
The Executive Committee tenta-
tively approved its yearly budget

Monday night. Student Body
President Doug ‘Schwartz en-
couraged students to voice

opinions and suggestions before
the final discussion next Monday
night.

Vice President and ex officio
Treasurer Steve Green submitted
a proposed budget of $27,200 de-
rived from the $17 student tax.
He stated that the major change
from last year’s budget is that
law students no longer pay for
the Calyx and Ring-tum Phi and
undergrads do not pay for the
Student. Bar Association.

After a lengthy debate, Junior
Representative Bob Keatley and
Secretary Ben Sherman’s resolu-
tion to approve the budget was
passed unanimously. The only
change in Green‘s figures was a
$525 shift from the Ring-tum Phi
to the Student Body Reserve
Fund. The Phi is spending $1200
less than last year to help balance
the budget.

The EC loaned the Cold Check
Committee $300. Law _ School
Representative Tom King em-
phasized the new money-making
role of the committee, which is
calling students about bad checks
and bringing them before the
Student Control Committee. The
Student Recruitment Committee
was given $300. Committee Chair-
man Gary Avery announced that
one foundation had already re-
newed a three year, $5000 a year
grant.

The Young Americans for Free-
dom requested $2200. They said

NOTICE

Students who have brought
motor vehicles to school must buy
either city or county tags by
October 8. Tags cost $10.00 and
are valid for one year. Any stu-
dent living in the city limits must
buy their tag from the City
Treasurer’s Office on East Wash-
ington. Students whose local resi-
dence is Rockbridge County are
required to purchase a decal from
the County Treasurer’s Office.

Public hearing scheduled

For constitutional changes

A committee of EC representa-
tives has proposed revisions in
several sections of the Student
Body Constitution.

A public hearing on _ these
changes will be held Monday
evening at 6:30 p.m. in the EC
room. The proposed changes will
be posted around the campus
Thursday. If the EC approves
these changes, they will be voted
on by the student body. A sum-
mary of the major changes is
provided below:

Add a new article on elections,
which would change the dates of
elections to conform with the 12-

12-6 calendar and provide that
candidates must receive a ma-
jority of the ballots cast to win
a first primary.

Provide that the adoption of
amendments would require a
two-thirds approval vote in an
election in which at least half of
the student body participated.

Place the President and Vice
President of each class on the
Student Control Board.

Make transfer students
bers of the university
body.

Remove all references to
now-defunct Dance Board,

mem-
student

the

they intended to go on recruit-
ing trips to Chile (later changed
to California) and Miami (for
conservative Cubans). They em-
phasized that nearby communi-
ties only offered rednecks, which
they said are different from true
conservaties. Sophomore Repre-
sentative Leland McCullough’s
motion to deny the funds was ap-
proved.

In other action the EC an-
nounced Monday that organiza-
tions selling pre-written term
papers are being warned off the
campus. Dave Braun’s request for
a committee to get BankAmeri-

card and Master Charge accepted
at the Co-op was approved.

Items on next Monday agenda
include:

Final approval of budget

Public hearing at 6:30
constitutional changes

Deadline announced for fresh.
man applications to standing
committees

Report of Student Activities
Board and Mock Convention
Committee

Freshmen elections set

Report on Status of Courses
and Degrees Committee Pro.
posal

on

 

this year.

 

Where your student tax goes

1973-74 EC Budget

1973 1973 1972

Organization per student Total Total
allocation

Calyx $4.675 $7,480.00 $7,626.57
Ring-tum Phi 2.50 4,000.00 5,234.28
Expense of Fund 3125 500.00 493.80
EC .6875 1,100.00 1,069.90
Student Bar Assn.

(inc. Law News) 2.00 3,200.00 2,167.59
Ariel 1.00 1,600.00 1,646.00
Student Activities Board SO 1,280.00 1,316.80
Contact 3.00 4,800.00 4,938.00
Reserve Fund 2.02 3,240.00 2,177.99
TOTAL $17.00 $2,7200.00 *$26,670.63
*Does not include $1,311.37 allocated last vear for Publica-

tions Board Reserve Fund, which was not allocated money

 

 

Calyx scheduling portrait photos

The Washington and Lee year-
book, the Calyx, is currently tak-
ing portraits of all students for
this year’s edition.

be from 10 a.m. to
and from 1:30 to 4:30

Sittings will
12:30 p.m.

p.m,

The schedule for today and
next week follows: today: stu-
dents whose last names _ begin

with H and I; Monday: J and K;
Tuesday: L and M; Wednesday:
N and O; Thursday: P, Q, and R.

It could be a cold winter in Rockbridge

Student living off-campus and
many residents of Lexington and
Rockbridge County could have a
problem obtaining fuel for heat-
ing this winter.

The big oil companies have told
their distributors that this winter
could bring a real shortage of
fuel oil to Virginia as well as
other parts of the country, ac-
cording to local distributors of
the fuel,

The problem affects not only
present fuel oil customers, but al-
so anyone new in the area who
is not yet a customer of fuel oil

service and is trying to become
one,

City officials estimate that 20
percent of Lexington residents
use fuel oil to heat their homes.
The figure is believed to be much
higher out in the countryside of
Rockbridge County. The problem
is further believed to be acute
for students living off-campus,

Distributors said they are get-
ting allotments of oil which equal
the amount they received last
year. They explained this as the
reason why they are not accept-
ing new customers,

One area fuel oil company has
already shut down, according to
local distributors. About 200 fami-
lies are currently without fuel
supply for the winter in Raphine
due to the closing of the Mines
Oil Co. With few distributors ac-
cepting new customers, the famil-
ies ‘may well be unable to find
any fuel oil this winter to heat
their homes,

Last year
escaped

the Lexington area
with a relatively mild
winter as far as fuel use is con-
cerned. Distributors last spring
reported few problems over the

winter in allocating fuel. The dis-
tributors noted the unusually
warm winter temperatures in ex-
plaining last winter’s fuel situa-
tion locally.

Sunday, White House Counselo:
Melvin Laird said President Nixon
may be forced to implement a
plan this winter for mandatory
allocations of fuel, Laird said a
four-step plan, with the last step
being mandatory allocations, is
being considered for enforcement
by the Executive Branch of the
government, with or without con-
gressional approval,
THE RING-TUM PHI

 

OUTLOOK and REVIEW
Ripping off the students

Whether intended or not, the city of Lexington is, in the minds
of many persons at Washington and Lee, ripping off the average
student.

Consider the following:

. Automobile tags. Students with motor vehicles registered out
of state are required to have a city or county license tag. The student
is apparently considered a resident of the area and is charged as
such, as are all Virginia residents. Though the city tag fee may and
probably could be challenged as a rip-off solely in itself, this is not
the main point. The classification of the student as an apparent
resident and not just a transient has caused problems in other areas,
specifically:

... Registering to vote. If you are assumed a resident of the area
in registering a motor vehicle, then why has there been such a hassle
in recent years when a student has approached the local voter registra-
tion board in an attempt to assert his privilege of voting? Reportedly,
residency has been at the root of the problem—is a W&L student a
resident and therefore eligible to vote? The city seems to think so
in regard to license tag fees; why not the same for registration to
vote locally and perhaps give the student a voice in the local govern-
ment? Perhaps a little student representation could help give the stu-
dent an even break in the city.

...A one percent tax on food. Lexington is fast becoming known
as somewhat of a tourist trap by some particularly because of this tax,
which certainly hurts tourists—and financially more than it does the
citizens of Lexington. For residents, there is little problem. The tax,
particularly when applied to prepared food such as that in a restau-
rant, or a snack bar, or a Co-op for that matter, poses a constant
burden on those who do not live entirely off their own cooking. Stu-
dents, for instance.

One percent may seem trivial, granted, but it adds up fast. Com-
bined with the state tax, Lexington’s penny tax on he dollar aids
in bringing the cost of a 15 cent ice cream cone to 16 cents.

Besides affecting the pocketbook in a subtle way, the tax is a
downright nuisance. The endless search for the extra penny or two,
or the equally endless wait for your change, is a pain most can do
without. And of course, do the W&L students, who are affected most
by the tax, reap the benefits from it?

... Parking meters in front of fraternity houses. What legitimate
excuse is there for meters in front of, say, the Sigma Chi house? It
is doubtful that the meters are used to any degree by patrons of the
Lexington “business district,” particularly when one considers the
amount of available space downtown.

There are of course, other grips which could be discussed in this
column, perhaps even to the point of alleging a conspiracy by the
towns people against the university. But many of these border on the
line separating legitimate complaint from complete paranoia, and
many are seen by students on an individual basis.

Whatever the case, when one considers the economic impact of the
Washington and Lee student upon this community, both economically
and intellectually, it seems as if somebody is on the short end of the
stick.

This view may be biased, granted, but it is the biased view of
students whose patiences and pocketbooks have both been taxed by
the city. The student is getting ripped off, perhaps in a figurative
sense, possibly in a literal sense. —P.J.L.

Responding to student needs

A proposal asking for equal representation (6-6) of students and
faculty on the Courses and Degrees Committee will be brought before
the University Council today and the genral faculty on Monday.

Currently, the board has one student and eight members of the
faculty and administration. The committee is involved primarily
with policy in regards to couses at Washington and Lee.

Why even up the representation? First, the move will make the
committee more responsive to student needs. Six students on the
committee can give a better representation of students wants and
needs than can one.

Second, the move will enhance the role of the committee as middle
ground between students and faculty. It would be a true link be-
tween the Curriculum Committee, comprised of students, on the lower
end of the ladder, and the faculty committee at the top. The faculty
would still have final say in any curriculum matters.

We emphatically endorse the proposal, as did the Executive Com-
mittee (which did so in a unanimous vote). The move will not decrease
the faculty’s ultimate power in course decisions, and it will aid in
expanding the marketplace of ideas in curriculum matters high up
the ladder, so that all sides of the issue can be presented in the now
one-sided environment of executive decisions. —P.J.L.

Thursday, September 27, 1973

 

‘Who had the English muffins?”

ETTERS TO THE CL

Sir:

This letter is addressed to the
Student Activities Board and the
Contact Committee.

This past Wednesday night, a
program of unquestionable merit
was brought by your board to
the W&L campus. The program
dealing with the assassination of
President John Kennedy was of
great interest to the student body.

However, did your committees
not realize that September 26
(Wednesday night) was the first
night of the Jewish New Year.
This holiday is among the most
religious occasions observed by
the Jewish Community and, there-
fore, had you known about the
holiday, I feel your committees
are guilty of not considering the
interests of the Jewish students
on campus,

Should your committees not
have known about the Jewish
holiday, I suggest you get a new
calendar and keep more abreast
of activities that will keep stu-
dents in the W&L community
from being able to participate in
activities they pay for from the
student tax.

Herby Rubenstein ’74

The Ring-tum Phi invites let-
ters from our readers on any
topic of concern to students,
Letters should be submitted to
the Ring-tum Phi office in the
first floor of Reid Hall or to
P.O. Box 899, no later than 6
p.m. Monday. The Ring-tum Phi
reserves the right to edit letters
for libel and length. All letters
should be signed, though names
will be withheld on request.

 

 

 

 

THE RING-TUM PHI

The Ring-tum Phi is published on Thursdays during the college year.
It is printed by the Journalism Laboratory Press, Washington and Lee
University. The mailing address is Box 899, Lexington, Virginia 24450.
Entered as second class matter September 29, 1946, at the Post Office.
Lexington, Virginia 24450, under the act of March 3, 1879. Subscription
rates: $6.00 for the school year, $3.00 for the semester.

PAUL J. LANCASTER ANDREW J. A. CHRISS
Editor-in-chief Business Manager

PU Te 6k 5 ss a ei hs oi Ss Jess Reeves

ke ee eT er Bill Austin

Pa TO a ok 5s a a vs dc th 0 se Bill Robinson

Ss § § _§ _BC "=== Palmer Trice, Robert Gurnee

 
Thursday, September 27, 1973

‘The Devils’ to show Friday

IXen Russell’s “The Devils” will
be presented in duPont Auditor-
ium Friday and Saturday at 7
p.m. with an admission charge of
7o cents, The film is a true story,
carefully documented, historically
acurate—a serious work by one
of the cinema’s’ outstanding
talents.

 

“The Devils” is, to say the least,
a controversial film. It is being
hailed by many as a masterpiece.
Others have found it visually
shocking and deeply disturbing

it is rather explicit in depicting
that

the bizarre events occurred

in France in 1643.

 

HIGH

LUSTER

Vanessa Redgrave plays the
hunchbacked Mother Superior of
a convent who becomes sexually
obsessed with a worldly priest,
played by Oliver Reed. In her
frustration, she falsely accuses
him of lewdness and sorcery. Her
accusation leads to a mass public
exorcism, instigated by Cardinal
Richelieu. The priest is found
guilty and burned at the stake.

Russell’s screenplay for “The
Devils” is based on Aldous Hux-
ley’s “The Devils of Loudun” and
“The Devils,’ a play by John
Whiting.

gett

Your Happy Shopping Store

 

NYLON CIRE

bomber jacket

$32

Our own ‘Andhurst’ tailored with — double-entry

patch pockets — quilt-lined sleeves — buckle-up

convertible collar,

Downtown
Lexington, Va.
463-3111

navy, blue, —

sizes 36 to 46.

Open Daily 9:30-5:30
Friday Nite Til 8:30
Saturday 9:30-5:30

   

THE RING-TUM PHI

Page 3

 

By ROME SCOTT

Rumors are floating around
that Loggins and Messina are on
the University of Virginia con-
cert agenda. If they are, look out.
The Messina group is not one to
miss.

A group best known on top 40
radio for “Your Mama _ Don’t
Dance and Your Daddy Don’t
Rock and Roll,” Kenny Loggins,
Jim Messina and company are
one of the finest feeling music
machines to come out of Los
Angeles in some time.

Listened to and talked about
often on the mid to northern East
Coast, the band has been neg-
lected by radio audiences in the
South and Midwest. To find out
how they felt about their seem-
ing lack of popularity in these
areas of the country, this critic
went backstage after one of Log-
gins and Messina’s concerts for
an interview that turned out to
be a session resembling a meet-
ing of old friends.

Messina did most of the talk-
ing even though Loggins is a
talkative guy. “We’re not really
concerned about the popularity
question even though we don’t
understand it,’ Messina said.
“We've done well on the West
coast, especially L.A., but most
of our stuff has been better re-
ceived in the South when some
other artist did it.”

He was referring to the success
of Ann Murray’s version of “Dan-
ny’s Song” and the Nitty Gritty
Dirt Band’s rendition of ‘‘House
at Pooh Corner.”

Loggins, who wrote both of the
songs, said it did not really
bother him. “In fact, I cry all
the way to the bank.”

After all this critic had heard
about Messina as a member of
the Buffalo Springfield and Poco
and, never having heard of Log-
gins before he began with Mes-

 

The Student
Activities Board

proudly presents
from NYC

Jerome

McMurry

A weekend in Virginia
FRIDAY NIGHT—

The Cockpit 8 p.m.-midnight
Reduced Prices
ADMISSION—$1.00

SATURDAY AFTERNOON
In front of old gym
3:30-6 p.m. FREE

FREE
“The Man Who Taught
Richie Havens
Everything He Knew”

 

Inside-Out

sina, the question of group origin
came up.

“Jim was producing records,
and I needed a producer. A friend
of mine talked to him and told
Jim I would call him about doing
some production work for me.
I did call him and we got to-
gether,” said Loggins.

Messina said he had left Poco
because the group’s music was
starting to take a direction away
from his musical intention. When
he and Loggins met they found
they could combine interests to
fulfill the same intention.

They still compose primarily
apart from each other but com-
bine creative purposes through
arrangements,

“We see each song as a separate
entity,” Messina said, “Like with
‘Your Mama Don’t Dance,’ it’s a
novelty tune, not an extension of
our aesthetic premise.”

The touring group is made up
of Al Garth of saxophones, re-
corders and violin; Jon Clarke on
saxophone and flute; Larry Sims

on bass; Merel Bregante play
drums.
Michael Omartian plays key-

boards on both of the group’s
albums but does not tour with
the band.

Both as writers and performers,
Loggins and Messina create a
musical experience that is rarely
excelled in energy and ability.

As people they are as excep.
tional as their music,

Book reviews

By ROME SCOTT
THE FIFTH ESTATE by Robin
Moore (Doubleday, $7.95).

A four-year effort on the part of
the autnor of the “French Con.
nection,” this novel is an interest
grabber.

Moore stays within his chosen
orientation, dealing with crime,
again handling the subject with
the vivid style that made “Con.
nection” such a successful movie
script.

Brad Kendall is a dynamic,
highly respected businessman in
hotel management with the Ascot
Hotel chain when the hotels are
sold to the Whitehall corporation.

Whitehall has a nebulous but
respected history in the financial
realm and is the subject of much
speculation, many saying the
corporation is connected with
organized crime,

Only after he decides to work
for Whitehall as president of
Ascot Hotels does Kendall find
that the speculation is not idle
and he has become involved in
the fifth estate—the court of the
king of organized crime.

The story deals in fiction so
Closely tied to non-fiction that
one wonders throughout the book
how much of the truth is in-
volved.

A postscript to the novel could
read—“Only the names have been

changed to protect the gsuillty.”
Page 4

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

,

¥%

ad

Note: The views expressed in
this column do not necessarily
reflect those of the Phi.—Editor

During Freshman  matricula-
tion, numerous pieces of literature
which were thrust into each
ingenuous freshman’s hand, in-
cluding some very timely informa-
tion on abortion. A stout little
man, while feverishly passing out
his infantium corpora delecti ex-
pose, was excitedly chattering
about how “the abortion issue”
would tear this country apart be-
cause of the controversy it will
generate. In certain quarters of
the Freshman Class the contro-
versy has already begun.

Although it is estimated that
there are over one million abor-
tions performed in the United
States and Canada annually, there
is great disagreement over the
jegality and morality of obrtion.

Even in the Catholic Church,
whose upper hirarchy solemnly
denounces abortion and contracep-
tion with equal lassitude, there
is a great division of opinion on
this topic. Paul W. Rahmier, emi-
nent Catholic clergyman, has
taken the liberal side of the argu-
ment in an article entitled “Abor-
tion and the Reverence for Life”
(Christian Century): that the
fetus, although possessing the
capacity for becoming a human
being, is not a human being who
can be protected by the courts,
as if it had human rights, Futher-
more, Mr. Rahmier insists that a
woman should not have to bear
a child which might endanger her
health.

On the other side, Robert H.
Hamill, also an eminent Catholic
clergyman-spokesman, insists that
abortion is wrong for any reason
whatsoever. He counters Mr.
Rahmier’s claim of social benefits
from abortion by noting that it
is a “patent misreading of human
nature.” He goes on to state that

Abortion

    

women who know they have a
“way out” will be less inclined
toward careful contraceptive plan-
ning.
Both

these views express a
common goal—reverence for hu-
man life. Yet, not only are their
means of achieving this reverence
irreconcilable, but both men are
looking at the problem in the
wrong perspective.

Abortion of the fetus is not
morally wrong because it causes
the destruction of a human life.
It is morally wrong because it
violates a life brought into exist-
ence by human coitus, which
under God’s law is a holy union
to be practiced in the bonds of
matrimony. The life brought
about is therefore a gift of God
in whatever stage one examines
it. Abortion does indeed give an
easy out to those who wish to
be sexually promiscuous, but who
simultaneously do not want any
of the responsibilities of sexual
intercourse,

Sexual intercourse is not
merely for the gratification of the
human sexual appetite. In fact,
this is the least important func-
tion of sex. Sex is a gift of God
to be enjoyed as He directs, with-
in the bonds of marriage as an
expression of love and to produce
children. Sexual gratification as
a physical, emotional, or psycho-
logical necessity must be viewed
as only secondary to these pri-
mary purposes.

The controversy over abortion
cannot be resolved in an explana-
tion of the true purposes of sex.
Unfortunately, there are many
people in our country and our
world who are willing to tune
out their sense of moral rectitude
and tune in moral degeneracy.
For such people, the law must be
used as a restraint, lest we all
be consumed in their libidinous
irresponsibility.

Phillip J. Enrico, Jr.

115 Main St.

 
   
   
   
     

 

121 W. Nelson

$

 

FOR YOUR EXTRA PIECES OF FURNITURE

Varner & Pole

— Lexington, Va.

Need Extra Cash

STUDENT LOANS AVAILABLE
NO AGE RESTRICTION

PEOPLES Finance Service

OF LEXINGTON

Phone 463-3176

$

Thursday, September 27, 1973
7 I

 

Ask Traveler

Advice of a different color

Q—How does one do well with women?

A—From my vantage point outside Lee Chapel over the years, I’ve
seen hundreds of felines floating along under the hypnotic spell
of quite ordinary W&L men, not unlike yourself, I imagine. Ex-
cept for one terrible girl from Vermont last week who made
some rather rude remarks to me about rusty nails and saddle
sores, most of those females have certain romantic traits in com-
mon. Once you learn to identify them, you'll be able to face off
and hip-check on Saturday night for the big score! But remember
lacrosse isn’t the only weekend sport where one can incure nasty
penalties.

First of all, girls enjoy being the center of attention. So the
next time you have to slap your date around for spilling her drink
all over your new flares, make sure everyone in sight is watch-
ing. Secondly, girls appreciate the well-dressed guy. The clothes
a man wears indirectly reflects his feelings towards the woman
he is with. So, unless your date is a female Charlie tuna, stay
away from denim overalls and those Mail Pouch sunvisors.

Q—You’re kidding me, aren’t you?

A—Heaven, no! Remember, a woman, like a cat, possesses an insati-
able curiosity for abnormality in men. Even character quirks,
such as wearing argyle socks on your ears, attracts women in
no uncertain manner. So if a girl treats you like an overdue
library book, don’t think that you're shelved for good. Cultivate
vour bad habits. Use your imagination! If you don’t have any
birth defects, buy a Halloween mask for mixers. Remember,
there’s no greater compliment than being called the Mad Hatter
in romance; at least HE went to parties!

NOTICE
Dog owners are reminded that
dogs are not allowed to run at
large in the city. All dogs over

six months old must be licensed
and wear a collar bearing 3a
license tag of the proper calender
year.

UNIVERSITY
CLEANERS

Reliable Service In

Shirts Laundered

Dry Cleaning

Linen Service Clothing Repair

Storage & Free Moth Proofing

WE DELIVER 463-3622

—

 

~

a2 VUEN ES!

Make this your headquarters for Good Food

and Service

We have meal tickets at savings to you

SOUTHERN INN

 

 

 

 

(=
x
Thursday, September 27, 1973 THE

RING-TUM PHI

Page 5

Most Freshmen enter rush program

Chambliss said. “In addition,’ he
continued, “Rush is a lot of fun
and well worth the $13.50 registra-
tion fee.”

Of the 15 fraternities at W&L,
there have only been a few re-
ported cases of “dirty rushing.”
“This surprised me the most,”
stated Russ. ‘With the exception

ng freshmen was a major in-
crease over last year.

Officially commencing Sept. 12,
Rush will run until Oct. 5, and is
comprised of 10 Rush dates.

“Rush gives all freshmen a
chance to the fraternities
and, at the same time, allows the
fraternities to see the freshmen,”

By PAUL MORELLA

Out of 361 entering freshmen,
323 registered to participate in
Rush 1973 during the _ entire
month of September and the first
week of October.

According to Russ Chambliss,
President of the Inter-fraternity
Council, the number of register-

see

Bae 10 years
to get real HET Ea Tet
aL au Cg

With us you start ‘moving up instantly.

of several incidents, Rush 1973
has not experienced many prob-

lems other than the normal
ones—such as getting people pick-
ed up.”

With a majority of the fra-

ternities facing a financial strain,
Rush 1973 moves towards its con-

clusion at 10:30 p.m. on Oct. 5,

 

And you move fast. Backed by your college education
and your ROTC commission you'll be managing men and
making important decisions long before your classmates who

start their careers in business and industry.

What next? You might decide to stay with the Army.
Up eh 2ad you can see more responsibility. Greater authority.

Sw

4

Or you might decide on an outside career. In

business. Industry. The professions. Politics maybe.

Your experience gives you the assurance, the

¢

self-confidence that commands respect.
Great careers often start with ROTC.
And never stop. Let us tell you more.

-
Pi
¢

a

Professor of Military Science
Military Science Building

Washington and Lee Univ.

Army ROTC. The more you took, J eteniiiniten Army ROTC,

 

 

 

at it, the better it looks. Vf same
Addres
P fm County.
i State Zip Phone

 

 

- College planning to attend.
Page 6

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

Mays’ love affair ends

By BILL AUSTIN
Sports Editor

Willie Mays announced his re-
tirement last Thursday, choosing
a day that belonged to a couple
of aging tennis players and to
curious hordes that endlessly de-
bated the male-female confronta-
tion. Sadly enough, the poor tim-
ing reflected all too truly the
season’s woes for the Met center
fielder. Injuries humbled _ the
once flawless ballplayer in a man-
ner that proved painful to ob-
serve. Like the Yankee great,
Mantle, to whom he was often
compared—with many resulting
arguments—the end for Mays has
been an experience in frustration.
Thankfully, Mays’ undeniable ac-
complishments, deeds that span
a period of 22 summers (his 660
home runs, .307 Batting Average),
salve the hurt of 1973’s .211 B.A.
and 6 HRs. Indeed, they should.

Mays was trapped in what he
chose to call “a love affair” with
baseball, making any decision to
retire a matter of inestimable
difficulty. Then too, New York
was once again the theatre for
his efforts, the pulse-beat of Mays-
fanaticism that never quite died
after his years of skillfulness with
the old New York Giants.

For some, Mays always seemed
to garner more than his share
of adulation, sapping the amount
of acclaim to be doled out to
other stars of similar achieve-
ment, like Aaron or Clemente.
Possibly his seasons in the media-
center contributed a great deal,
but there were other factors,
deeper and more telling, which
touched the vital core of what
makes a performer the image of
greatness.

Mays lived baseball, to a de-
gree that is frightening to
examine. He gave his soul to a
game; consequently, the totality
of effort consumed him, Every
September, after five months of
day-to-day struggle, Mays would
succumb to physical exhaustion
and batting slumps, simply be-
cause he had given all there was
to give. His personal affairs were
also battered by this ruthless
dedication: divorce, financial mis-

   
 
    
   
  

wr

\ ref
1A,

co
vy

KEYDET-GENERAL
RESTAURANT

Praty Oia} the Sone Piney

Superb Dini ia
Pietoresque Atmosphere,
Serving Pood nthe

Pine Tradition ol Virgin,

Complete Facilities For

}. Banquets, Weddings & Receptions “:
VOR RESERVATIONS, PHONE t65 2765
One Mile West of Lexuytonmon US. 60

Tai - | : ff

judgment, haunted him while he

immersed himself in the little-bay
dreams of the baseball myth. For
the effort, he became a part of
that myth scheme, a figure for
the young and dream-prone to
emulate.

This season, the myth showed
obvious signs of wear, in Mays’
performance and attitude. He
balked at retiring after a rough
spring, but the rumors of an
ending persisted when his play-
ing time declined along with his
batting average. Others on the
Met team apparently resented the
special treatment granted its high-
est paid member; even Yogi Berra
seemed bothered with the task of
inserting Mays into his line-up.
Over the summer, he became a
curiously forgotten ball player,
appearing briefly in mid-July to
strike out in the Kansas City All-
Star affair. His troubles were
magnified in the case of the
Mets, a team of injury and weak
hitting. Through much of July
and August, they played the role
of cellar-dwellers in the NL east,
and played it well.

Then, with the division race
caught in the throes of uncer-
tainty, the Mets reformed. For
the past four weeks, they have
parlayed outstanding pitching
and timely hitting into a real shot
at play-off money, and presently
contend for the National League
eastern title.

All this sets the stage for high
drama, an opportunity for reality
to steal a page from fiction. Mays
seeks a way to go out as a player,
and in no finer fashion could he
leave the game than as a pennant-
clinching pinch-hitter in the ninth
inning of tight contest. Maybe
fate, in its own subtle way, will
repay number 24 for the cruelties
with which it has heavily burda-
ened him in this, his final year.
Such is a true test for the magic
of the myth, and for its favorite
son, Willie Mays.

NOTICES
Freshmen interested in trying
out for W&L golf, see Coach
Twombly in his Doremus office
from 9:30 a.m. to 12:30 p.m. as
soon as possible.

 
 
   
   
 

AND
MOTEL

*

Thursday, September 27, 1973

 

WEL Ruggers, tuning up for the coming season, scrimmaged Wil-

liam and Mary last Saturday,

—Photo by Bill Robinson

W&L Cross Country—a preview

By STEVE BAKER
“Okay boys, let’s go. And I just
want you to keep this in mind as
you run: it can’t hurt forever.”

Armed with such comforting
philosophy, the cross-country

team, some 30 strong, begins what
shall be an 8-mile workout. Left
behind in a slowly settling cloud
of dust and gravel stands Coach
Dick Miller, looking very coach-
like with his clipboard, whistle
and stopwatch.

Leading the pack are Senior co-
captain Bill Kalal, and sophomores
Mike Burns, Tom Washington

and Jim McMenamin. In this
group lies the bulk of the team’s
scoring power; these runners are
expected to consistently fill four
of five scoring positions. And they
will fill them well indeed, from
the looks of their prepatory work-
outs: every other day, an 8-mile
“general conditioning” workout,
interspersed on the odd days by
grueling speed work, reputedly
the hardest workouts W&L run-
ners have seen in some time.
Prospects for a successful sea
son look reasonably good, though
(Continued on page 8)

Washington and Lee Universiti
Bookstore
{ Wide Variety of Paperbacks
Charge Accounts for All Students
Special Orders Quickly Placed

DEDICATED TO THE
FINE ART OF BROWSING
Thursday, September 27, 1973

 

Freshman receiver Tony Perry hauls in a Lewis Powell pass,
playing an instrumental role in The General’s 29-7 trouncing of
Hamilton College. His catches included one for a 67-yard T.D.

 

R/C Theatres
Regal Cinema Fare
in Lexington

State Theatre

12-14 W. Nelson St. 463-3424

NOW SHOWING
— ONE BIG WEEK —

The Day o
The Jackal

Lyric Cinema

135 S. Main St. 463-3543

NOW SHOWING

The Discreet
Charm of
the Bourgeoise

FRIDAY-SATURDAY

Hitler: The
Last Ten Days
SUNDAY.MONDAY-TURSDAY
Cries and

Whispers

Rated R

 

—Photo by Bill Robinson

THE RING

-TUM PHI

Page 7

 

W&L Demoralizes

Hamilton,

By BILL FLESHER

Lewis Powell passed and ran
for over 250 yards Saturday as
the Washington and Lee Generals
opened their 1973 football season
with a 29-7 win over Hamilton
College.

The senior quarterback hit 13
of 25 passes for 191 yards, includ-
ing a 63-yard touchdown strike to
freshman tight end Tony Perry.
Powell also led the team in rush-
ing, gaining 70 yards and a touch-
down in 17 carriers.

In its first game under new
head coach Bill McHenry, W&L
looked much impoved over last
year’s squad, which managed only
three wins in nine outings. On
Saturday, the offense picked up
a95 total—yards—tand 28 first
downs), while the defensive unit,
led by co-captain Bill Wallace,
allowed only one touchdown, fore-
ing the Continentals to go to the
air much more than they wanted.

W&L got on the board first, as
senior fullback Jim Farrar cap-
ped a 67-yard drive with a one-
vard plunge. Powell ran for a

Soccer team anticipates good year,

By PAUL CAVALIERRE, JR.

The 1973-74 version of the
Washington and Lee soccer team,
captained by Rolf Piranian and
Bill Spoffard, opens its season
against Eastern Mennonite this
Saturday. Game time is 10:15 a.m.
by the Liberty Hall ruins at the
upper field.

The Generals have 14 return-
ing lettermen and a good crop of

freshmen this year. The lineup
is headed by Jim Fox, the second
leading scorer in the state last
year. Helping him on the front
line are John Embre, Spoffard,
freshman Doug Hunter, and
Kenyan exchange student Harry
Jembe. The halfback line is
anchored by veterans Chuck
Alexander, Bobby Crawford,

Lecky Stone and freshman John
Monherbeck.

Lettermen John

ai

two-point conversion after a bad
snap, and the Generals led 8-0.

W&L blew a potential scoring
drive early in the second quarter
when Powell fumbled inside the
Hamilton 15. Later in the quarter,
the Continentals got their only
touchdown of the day as they
went 69 yards in 13 plays. Quart-
erback Rob Winter hit Dave
Baker with a three-yard scoring
pass, Bill Finan kicked the extra
point, and W&L led by 8-7 at
the half.

W&L took the second half kick-
off and marched 73 yards in 12
plays. The big play of the drive
came on a fourth-and-one situa-
tion, when Powell ran a bootleg
for 18 yards. Two plays later, he
went the other way for the score.
Perry’s kick was good.

After a Hamilton field goal at-
tempt failed, the Generals moved
further ahead. On the fourth play
of the drive, Powell looked long
for Perry. The ball was under-
thrown, and looked to be in the
hands of the Hamilton defender.

(Continued on page 8)

opens Saturday

Galyon, Barclay Armstrong and
Piranian make up the fullback
line.

The season schedule is high-
lighted by Johns Hopkins and
Navy. The players have  prac-
ticed since September 6 and
should provide plenty of com-
petition for all of their opponents.
Already the Generals have beaten
VMI in a varsity scrimmage, 4-0.

 

 

LAN we

te

oie ald WPT NN
ASOT oN
so. ——

run or fade.

booklet or Pomps, write:

 

 

    
 
      
   

SSS SSS J
SSSA SSS SOs

Ss
_ S PWN MY
" }

oe,

Get it together with

Pomps Tissues make short work of beautiful floats
and decorations. They're flame-resistant, 6” 6”
squares in 20 brilliant weather-proof colors that won't

Get Pomps at your college bookstore or order
direct. And for great ideas on making floats and
decorations, ask your librarian for “How To Decorate
With Pomps”’, or get your own copy for $1.25. For

Oy wm
iS f
yy Xi
Ue ——_—] —

i]
5

cS
SS

  

AIS
(apt

N
resistant ~*~ .,

omp

for FLOATS and DECORATIVE PURPOSES
<j e)@)

ete jak |
a or

eid

  

     
 

  

 

The Crystal Tissue Company
Middletown, Ohio 45042

 

 
Page 8

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

Generals win

(Continued from page 7)
But Perry “intercepted” the ball,
avoided two tacklers, and went
the rest of the way for the TD.
The PAT failed, but the Generals
had established a 21-7 lead.

The final touchdown drive start-
ed when Rick Kulp recovered a
Lou Cordia fumble at the W&L
45. The Generals took 12 plays
to score, with Bob Lindsey going
the final yard. Freshman Rocky
Joyner goth the two-point con-
version in the same _ fashion
Powell had scored on earlier to
close out the scoring.

Hamilton’s hopes were extin-
guished on the ensuing drive,
when Wallace picked off a Winter
pass at the W&L 13. McHenry
then cleared the bench, as just
about everyone saw action.

With one win under their belts,
the Generals stay at home this
week to entertain Centre College.
Wé&L hasn’t beaten Centre since
1967. The Colonels won last year’s
meeting of the two teams, 15-14,
at Danville, Ky. The Generals
blew a 14-0 lead in that one, and
seemed to “hang it up” for the
season after the loss.

Statistics

WEL Hamilton
SS First Downs ....., 14
a Total Yardage .... 284
204... 3, Yards Rushing ... 139
i Yards Passing .... 145
is2600, Basins . =... 12-35-1
a... SS. Fumble/Lost .... 3-2

i Return Yardage ..
6-29.8 . Punts/Average ..

SS, Penalty Yards

Cross Country Review

(Continued from page 6)
Coach Miller could not be coerced
into making official predictions.

Looking ahead at the season...
Stu Nibley’s hampering injuries
will similarly hamper the team’s
performance. Stu was depended
on to fill one of the top five fnish-
ing spots. As a result, the pres-
sure to finish well has fallen
heavily on three freshmen of
promise: Kirk Ruffin, Austin Ball,
and Jess O’Neil. They are accept-
ing the task and competing with
a vigor that evokes no small
measure of respect. Perhaps the
prodding and home-spun _ philoso-
phy of Coach Miller can get them
ready for tAcir first meet of
October 6th.

NOTICE
GWT PHOTOGRAPHIC
Photography for all occasions.
Call G. Watson Tebo 463-7793

anytime.

 
  

Wendell’s
Barber Shop

OPEN 9-6

9 South Jefferson

Closed Wednesday

sete tebentobeteteettoteetetoeledatatettetetteetdetteletteetetetedetetes
: . ’ *
: The First National Bank
‘ of Lexington t
* : . %
* has special checking accounts for students z

setetetetetedotedededestoletededededetedesteteledeodoteietetetetotetetetetedeteteoopofegegegetetes

*,
es

+

RING-TUM PHI
SUBSCRIBERS!

    
   
   
        
     
     
 

The first two copies of THE RING-TUM PHI are
being sent to all parents of Washington and Lee stu-
dents. If you would like to continue receiving each

edition of THE RING-TUM PHI, please fill out

your name and address now and send $6.00 to:

THE RING-TUM PHI

Box 899 Lexington, Va. 24450
OU es os hs os ss a
ish a ks ss as es
ae, SS See sy ess , ee. SS == a

Thursday, September 27, 1973

TGIT

Celebration
Thursday in the
Cockpit

5-6 p.m.

 

Hamric and Sheridan
JEWELERS
Watch and Jewelry Repair
Hand Engraving & Class Rings
463-2022

 

 

Paul’s Bike Shop

11 N. New St, Staunton
Phone 886-1310
PAUL Now Excepting All
BIKE REPAIRS at
Sears’ Lexington Store
Pick-Up Every Wednesday
teturned On Wednesday.

Also New 10 Speeds Batavus
Bikes For Sale.

East Lexington
Grocery

Beer — Ice — Gas
Party Supplies — Snacks
Open 7 days a week
ABC No, 2078—8 a.m.-10 p.m,
SHOP FOR SUNDAY
EVENING DINNER
We Sell & Deliver Kegs

 

 

 

®
@©00096909900000809900909
©8000800880900209099059809099089990399999999989908808

Jewelry — Pen and Ink Drawings — Patchwork

SHENANDOAH CRAFTS

25 NORTH MAIN ST.
Pottery — Ironwork — Woodwork — Weaving

Hours 10 A.M.-5 P.M. Monday-Saturday

@CCCSOCHOOSOOSCEOOHSOSSOHE
© SSSCSCSESCCSCESESCTSHCEHCSEESESE

    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 

There’s a place for you on
Piedmont. For a weekend of
fun, a game out of town, a
quick trip home, whatever—
there’s a Piedmont jet or
propjet flight to fit your
plans. With personal,
thoughtful service always.
Piedmont—serving over 75
cities including Chicago,
New York, Washington,
Norfolk, Atlanta, Memphis.
Call us, or your travel agent.

   

Our twenty-fifth year
of service,

 
 

 

Save Long Distance Calls — Free Reservations
Tickets Cost No More At

TRAVEL UNLIMITED

21 WEST WASHINGTON ST.

 

463-7174 |
\

 
THE RING-TUM PHI

Washington and Lee University’s Weekly Newspaper
LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA, OCTOBER 3, 1973

Vol. LXXIII

Campus to be designated
As national historical site

Ceremonies to mark the desig-
nation of Washington and Lee’s
tront Campus as a National His-
toric Landmark are scheduled for
Friday, Oct. 12. Governor 1An-
wood Holton, a 1944 graduate, will
sneak at the 4:30 p.m. program to

held on the Front Lawn .

A panel discussion will be held
at 2 p.m. in Lee Chapel concern-
ing Wé&L’s architecture, past,
present, and future. Members of
the panel will be I. Taylor San-
iers, University historian, and
Everett Fauber, Sr., the Univer-
siiv’s restoration architect. Frede-
ric Cox of Marcellus Wright, Cox,
and Cilimberg of Richmond, archi-
tects for the University’s new
puilding program, will be there
aso.

The National Landmark desig-
nation for the Front Campus will

the second for Washington
and Lee, Lee Chapel was named a
National Landmark in 1962.

The center building of the Col-
onnade was erected in 1824. The
Center Building, Washington Hall,
Was designed and built by
Colonel John Jordan of Lexing-
ton, who had served as a builder
and architect at Monticello and
the University of Virginia.

Upon the completion of the ele-
gant new building the students
climaxed the festivities by liter-
lly tearing down Graham and
Union Halls, built only twenty
years before. The cornerstone-
laying was also accompanied by
a Whiskey party which saw a
“thirsty multitude break through
all restraint” and “men rolling on
the ground like swine.” The con-
temporary author of this discrip-
tion was probably unaware of the
significance of this early form of
gatoring,

The Centre Building had 10
classrooms on the first floor, six
classrooms, a stage and a chapel
(used as the president’s office)
on the second floor, and rooms for
literary societies on the third
floor. This building will be 150
years old in 1974,

Once the Centre Building was
completed plans were begun for
the Lyceum. Now called Payne
Hall, it was intended to house the
library, the physical museum, and
the Departments of Chemistry
and Physics. The President’s of-
fice was on the second floor and
was where Robert E. Lee became
President of Washington College
on October 4, 1865,

In the early 1840’s a dormitory

was added on the east side of the
Centre Building to restore sym-
metry to the campus. However,
the new dormitory was to have
one door instead of two and thus
add an element of variety. The
building was named _ Robinson
Hall in 1844 for “Jockey” John
Robinson, one of the school’s
faithful ante bellum patrons.
The carved wooden statue of
George Washington atop Wash-
ington Hall was the creation of
the local cabinet maker, Captain
Mathew S. Kahle. Legend has it
Kahle retrieved a giant log from
the James River and proceeded to
practice his hobby on it. He was
paid less than $100 for this tem-
porary statue; the trustees in-
tended to replace it with one of
marble when it could be afforded.
The building program of the

Faculty votes down motion
To restructure committee

 

The faculty Monday voted
down a proposal which would
have increased student member-
ship in the Courses and Degrees
Committee from one to four,

The proposal presented to the
faculty, rejected 46-40, was a
“watered-down” version of a pro-
posal originally calling for equal
representation on the committee
of six students and six faculty
members.

The original proposal, backed
by the student Executive Com-
mittee, was revised by the fac-
ulty-student University Council
last Thursday.

The proposal to place four stu-
dents on the committee along
with eight faculty members would
have made the committee more
responsive to the students in re-
gards to curriculum matters, ac-
cording to proponents of the pro-
posal. In addition, the proposal, if
approved, would have made the
Courses and Degrees Committee
more of a buffer zone between
the student Curriculum Commit-
tee, which initiates many student
proposals for curriculum changes,
and the faculty, which have final
say in all curricular matters.

Although the faculty meeting
was closed to the public, indica-
tions were that the faculty re-
jected the proposal in lieu of any
sort of substantial argument back-
ing the proposal.

Specifically, an increase of four

1840’s also added four residentia!
houses to the campus, one to
house the President and three for
professors. When General Lee
consented to become the President
of Washington College, the trus-
tees determined that a more ele-
gant and spacious residence was
required for the South’s hero.

The result was the present
President’s residence of which
Lee disapproved for its extrava-
gance. The cost of the project was
more than $15,000.

Student guides will be present
October 12 to conduct tours of
the Washington group, those
buildings erected between 1824
and 1842, the ante bellum faculty
homes and the President’s Home.
A reception will be held on the

Front Lawn following the dedica- §

tion ceremony.

students to the committee was
proposed in order to gather stu-
dent representation on the com-
mittee from all general fields of
study in the college, essentially
those fields delineated by the
four “distribution groups.”

 

Number 3

With Lexington’s one-way street
system in effect for about a
week now, the city has asked
the state to aid in drawing up
a tentative plan for a one-way
street system perpendicular to
the Main Street-Jefferson Street
circuit, Photo by Bill Robinson

ae |

pane

ae

Freshmen petitions due Ivionday

By Robert Pugh

The Executive Committee an-
nounced Monday night that fresh-
man class elections will be held
Monday, Oct. 15. Runoffs are the
following Thursday. An Execu-
tive Committee rep, a University
Council rep, a President, and a
Vice-President will be elected.

Petitions are due next Monday,
Oct. 8. Candidates must have 50
signatures,

The budget was approved un-
animously, after Student Affairs
Committee Chairman Mike Brit-
tin’s request for $15,280 was
granted. Brittin discussed his
committee’s goals, read their con-
stitution, and listed some of their
planned activities for the year,

In other budgetary action, the
EC gave the Mock Convention
Committee $225,

Law school rep Tom King re-
ported on their proposed constitu-
tion. The only major amendment
was proposed by junior rep Bob
Keatley, who suggested that all
revisions of the honor code be
given a public hearing. It was ap-
proved. Final consideration of the
constitution wil ltake place next
Monday,

Next week’s agenda:

Final approval of constitution

Petitions due for freshmen
class officers,

Report by Cold Check and Stu.
dent Recruitment Committees.

Consideration of regulations fot
posting notices.

Danforth fellowship competition announced

Inquiries about the Danforth
Fellowships, to be awarded by
the Danforth Foundation of St.
Louis Missouri in March 1974, are
invited, according to the local
campus representative, Professor

David W. Sprunt, duPont Annex.
The Fellowships are open to all
qualified persons of any race,
creed or citizenship, single o1
married, who have serious inter-
(Continued on Page 3)
Page 2 THE RING-TUM PHI

 

OUTLOOK and REVIEW

A case of executive fiat

The Executive Committee has met for three consecutive Mon-
days since the Fall Term began last month. In each of those meetings,
the committee called for an executive session, a session closed to all
student body members except those on the EC itself.

There is nothing in the student body constitution pertaining to
these executive sessions, which means such a session could be called
at the whim of the EC.

   

The effect, then, is that the EC can discuss any matters it wants
to discuss in closed session—matters, perhaps, which should be closed,
as in the cases of Honor System violations, but also matters which
quite feasibly could be of general student concern which the EC does
not want to discuss in the open, perhaps in order to avoid possible
strong student action and reaction to the topic involved.

What these matters are we cannot say for certain, since we have
been barred from such hearings. But it is doubtful that the EC has met
for three weeks in closed session to discuss individual cases not of
general concern to the student body.

The General Assembly of the State of Virginia has passed a law

which affects organizations in the public domain which parallel the
EC. The law states that all meetings of organizations concerned with
the disbursement of public funds are to be open to the public. There
are some exceptions where discussion would not be concerned with
the general public interest. Only in those exceptional cases can a
closed session of, say, a state legislature be called. Otherwise, the or-
ganizations are accountable to the public, and the meetings must be
open to the public.

As the Va. General Assembly law is concerned with organizations
charged with the disbursement of public funds, we are here concerned
with an organization charged with the disbursement of student funds.
If a parallel is to be drawn, the EC meetings should be open to the
student body, except in certain instances defined by law.

One notable exception would be, as stated earlier, meetings con-
cerned with individual students in, say, alleged honor violations. Other
exceptions along this line would also call for closed sessions. Other-
wise it is the obligation of the EC to remain in open session for all
matters expressly concerned with the student body in general or with
the disbursement of the student body’s fund. We note that even Lex-
ington has complied in most instances on this latter point, opening
its ‘work sessions” on its budget last May to the public, even though
the meetings were informal and not really required by law to be open.

What’s more, the EC has been asking the Ring-tum Phi in past
weeks to publish a letter which in summary states that the EC is the
student body’s governing organization and that all students are wel-
come to attend all EC meetings and discuss all student body matters
with the EC. That letter and the weekly habit of the EC to call execu-
tive session do not seem to exprss parallel philosophy as to the goals
of the EC. One says the EC is open to all students for all student body
matters at all times; the other seems to negate this.

Further, the EC last year called for a “recommendation” of sorts
stating that faculty meetings, which have not in recent times been
open to students or to anyone else for that matter, should be opened at
least partially to students. This way, those paying money to attend
this institution would know what’s going on in the “proving grounds”
for many recommendations (see page 1 for the final discision on the
Courses and Degrees Committee proposal, for example) affecting the
populace of Washington and Lee. Of course, those meetings are still
closed, but that is not the point.

Even though it was last year’s EC which made that recommenda-
tion, we sense the same feeling of condemnation of the faculty for
its closed sessions by this year’s EC. But how can a body condemn
another for holding closed sessions while that first body maintains
the power to close its sessions at its whim? This is hypocrisy.

Several amendments to the student body constitution are coming
up for ratification by the student body shortly concerned with various
aspects of student life, none of which directly affects the EC. An ad-
ditional amendment limiting the potential dictatorial powers of the
EC to hide from the student anyhing it wants would be in order.

Last year, one candidate for an Executive Committee office called
for an end to “executive fiat” on the part of the EC. The arbitrary
determination of what is open to the student body and what is not
is one such example of that fiat.

EDITOR'S NOTE: For a look at this situation from W&L’s other
news medium, listen to WLUR-FM, 91.5 Friday at 5 p.m.

P.J.L.

October 3, 1973

The Abortion Dilemma
Sir:

America’s number one problem
is not Watergate or Agnew or the
Brezhnev Doctrine. The most
serious problem for America is
the prophylactic mindset which
permeates our culture. America
has an anti-Life culture. Since
God is the Author of Life, Ameri-
can culture is in the very core
of its existence anti-God.

Since this is so there is very
small chance of authentic Human
Life Amendment clearing Con-
gress. Nonetheless, we must per-
sist in our struggle to rescue the
unborn. For every nation which
has had a systematic cult of in-
fanticide has been punished by
God.

Why is this? Because in the
legal acceptance of the prophylac-
tic mindset within a culture there

A look

By Johnny E. Morrison

One of the most depressing dis-
crepancies which exists in the his-
torical analysis of both America
and the world is the gap between
Black History and how it is re-
corded in the history books.

I happen to be one of the for-
tunate ones who thought sacri-
ticing an hour from the everyday
routine to view “Black History:
Lost, Stolen or Strayed” was wor-
thy. This film not only revealed
the many contributions made by
Blacks in the fields of science and
arts but also caused the viewer to
ask himself some perplexing ques-
tions. Questions such as “Why
didn’t Picasso attribute many of
the ideas for his painting to Afri-
can sculpture?” and “Why did
not the true inventors in the field
of technology get recognition?”
cause one to be appalled at the
way the world has systematically
excluded Blacks from history.

Black history, viewed from the
outside, usually depicts the Black
mass as one offering little to the
world, society and themselves.

| LETTERS TO TH

is established the ultimate revolt
against God. In rejecting Life,
man actually rejects God. A na-
tion which establishes this rejec-
tion in law invites the most ter-
rible punishment.

When man takes the prophylac-
tic mindset for his own, he in ef-
fect opts to construct a brave new
world in his own image. Such 4
world in which man answers to
no authority higher than himself
must of its very nature be totali-
tarian.

Every year Americans dump
thousands of pounds of dead
babies into hospital incinerators.
The blood of these murdered in-
nocents cries out to Heaven for
vengeance. Rescue a baby.

Long Live Free America!!!
Douglas P. Valenzuela
Class of ’74

at soul

Blacks are perceived to be the
master race in three categories:
ignorance, laziness and content-
ment under any circumstances.
However grim and despvcndent
this picture looks when one peers
from the outside, the beauty of
Black History still shines in the
minds, body and souls of Black
people. Not only have they, as a
race, been able to conquer and
heal the psychological damage
caused by the inconsistencies of
a sometimes free and God-fearing
nation but they have surpassed
the limits of human endurance
under unbearable situations and
conditions.

No longer can the historians
afford to neglect the roles Blacks
have played in making this a bet-
ter world. Nor can they afford to
negiect the roads Blacks paved in
Gpening the doors to medicine
and the arts. The essense of a real
historian is being able to record
the truth and not what people
want him to record. This is what
niust be done if Blacks are to be-
lieve that the history books really
‘tell it like it is.”

THE RING-TUM PHI

The Ring-tum Phi is published on Thursdays during the college year.
It is printed by the Journalism Laboratory Press, Washington and Lee
University. The mailing address is Box 899, Lexington, Virginia 24450.
Entered as second class matter September 29, 1946, at the Post Office,
Lexington, Virginia 24450, under the act of March 3, 1879. Subscription
rates: $6.00 for the school year, $3.00 for the semester.

PAUL J. LANCASTER ANDREW J. A. CHRISS

Editor-in-chief Business Manager
I TN 5 oo 6554s hs 0 es es Jess Reeves
ee re ee Bill Austin
a gr Bill Robinson
ee Bee oo kk eS si es Palmer Trice, Robert Gurnee
i os as ee David Lee
eS eS Dave Finnell, John Killpack, Chuck Alt
SS Tim Moore, Steve Yevich, Tom Rittenburg,

Rome Scott, Vance Marlowe, Bill Flesher, Paul Morella
October 3, 1973

By Rome Scott

Hats off to the Interfraternity
Council for bringing the Zoll-
man’s Follies—a five hour mont-
age of music from six groups—
Sunday afternoon. A big mouth-
ful of music to chew at one time,
the show was, never-the-less, han-
died well.

All of the groups were booked
by United Entertainment out of
Richmond, a fact which was an-
nounced every 15 minutes, and
none performed below a fairly
high standard of proficiency—
though one was noticibly worse
than others.

Of the six, three groups could
have been warm up groups to
some of the top acts in the Unit-
ed States—Sand Castle, Daddy
Rabbit, and Bad Dog put on per-
formances that measure high on
the professionalism scale.

Sand Castle, a six-man group,
displayed a depth of musicianship
seldom seen in a reproduction

band. Horn’ players’. played
guitar with an _ equal and
large amount of talent, guitar

players showed amazing ability
on horns and everyone in the
group sang—well.

A clean, strong, well-balanced
sound formed numbers such as J.
Geils’ “Southside Shuffle,” the
Doobie Brothers’ “China Grove,”
Derek and the Dominos’ “Layla”
and the Allman Brothers’ “Ram-
blin Man.”

The band didn’t let down the
soul people either. “I’ll Be There,”
“Respect” and “Papa was a Rollin’
Stone” were laid down with the
precision, power and controlled
drive that made the originals
famous.

Unlike so many other jukebox
groups, Sand Castle played every
song with the style of the original
without losing the life of the
music,

Originality was not the order
of the day and only Daddy Rabbit
gave the crowd something new.
“Sailor,” a song showing the in-
fluence of Yes and the Strawbs
but still definitely the group’s,
was a bright spot in the over-

Wendell’s
Barber Shop

OPEN 9-6
9 South Jefferson

Closed Wednesday

 

Inside-Out

   

cast, rainy afternoon.

Bad Dog came in third riding
on hard hits with a heavy, defini-
tive beat and a volume control
that gave all the instruments an
equal chance.

Greater Experience and Now
and Then filled in the gaps be-
tween the other acts with a va-
riety of soul and funky rock that
was at least adequate.

Only the last group fell short of
the mark upheld by the other
bands. Shreiking whistles and
poor music made the Grandeurs
and Montereys a pain to listen to.

The IFC’s show at Zollman’s
Pavilion was a dramatic step in
the right direction. Let’s hope it
isn’t the last.

WGL Theatre
Features ‘Royal
Hunt of the Sun’

The Troubadour Theatre’s first
presentation of the year will be
The Royal Hunt of the Sun by
Peter Shaffer. The 1964 London
play is being brought to Lexing-
ton by the student director Doug
Thomas. Direction of the play
will serve Thomas as a senior
thesis in drama to complete his
major.

Thomas has participated active-
ly in Washington and Lee’s drama
program, having appeared in
eight plays in his college career.
In fact, he has already directed
one play, Harold Pinter’s Old
Times. Thomas is a senior major-
ing in drama and English.

The basic element of the play
which will be highlighted are its
spectacle, movement, sound
and rhythm. The main problem
encountered thus far has been the
limitations of the Troubadour
Theatre stage. The all male cast
of 27 will crowd the stage and
will have to be handeled with
care.

The music for the production is
in the process of being composed
by students Richard Wright and
Doug Harwood. The technical di-
rector and set designer for Royal
Hunt is Ken Barnes. The set will
feature platforms and steps allow-
ing various entrances and exits
for the large cast.

Shaffer’s play concerns Pizar-
ro’s conquest of the Aztecs in
1533. The intent of the drama is
to contrast Inca faith and Euro-
pean faithlessness, European
hope and Indian hopelessness.
The Spaniards take the wealth of
the Indians and offer them civili-

(Continued on page 8)

LEOEEESSSOSOS0E SO 00900 000000000000 000000000000

% ° ° %
5 The First National Bank ‘
% of Lexington '
% has special checking accounts for students 3

sotetebebetetebofetettotetetoetetetetestentetntoeletetoeteletetetetetfetetotetee

%

THE RING-TUM PHI Page 3

 

gett

Your Happy Shopping Store

 

‘Andhurst’ Nominations for
INSTANT CASUAL

$8

Your choice of white, navy, red, brown, blue, green,
erey, gold. Easy-care Wintuk Orlon© acrylic—yes,
machine washable. Fashion note: turnback cuffs.
The turtleneck with full high-roll turtlenec. Fine-rib
jersey knit two-play Wintuk. S, M, L, XL.
The placket front and fine-gauge ribbed knit collar
tipped with contrasting color, S, M, L, XL,
Downtown

Lexington, Va.
463-3111

Open Daily 9:30-5:30
Friday Nite Til 8:30
Saturday 9:30-5:30
Page 4 THE RING-TUM PHI

Ask Traveler

().—Drinking is a popular pastime at W&L. I’ve had all the usual con-
coctions; do you have some out-of-this-way recipes of your own
that the casual tourist can’t sample on the open pavillion?

A.—You bet I do! And if the casual tourist ever got ahold of them, all
the streets in town would have to be made two-way again to
handle the overflow crowds!

Remember, every cocktail has an intended purpose, a prede-
termined reaction mixed right into it. For instance, grain alcohol
sweetened with fruit punch, as any experienced Lothario can
tell you, produces a mild state of euphoria in girls, such that any
chick under three hundred pounds is off her feet for good. (The
antidote, by the way, is a glass of milk laced liberally with a
can of STP motor oil; get THAT down a wilting Sem-flower and
you'll have a raging funny car on your hands, saving you that
annoying trip back to B.V.)

Here are two of my favorites:

..—The Washington Irving:

a bottle of moonshine
1 large pumpkin

For an A Plus in any drama course, just down the liquor in
one gulp, place the pumpkin on your head and, oola-la, you'll be
giving a stellar portrayal of Ichabod Crane being chased by the

headless horseman through Sleepy Hallow. Inappropriate for Greek

tragedies, though. See Mr. Barnes.
—The avoidable Parents Weekend Punch:
3 days of presweetened chatter from home
3 poor excuses for not writing regularly
1 good look at your midterm grades
Topped by a case of Boones Farm Apple Wine when they’ve
finally gone!
Q.—What’s the antidote to that one?
A.—The orphanage.

 

 

‘Naked Under Leather’

Warner Bros.’ “Naked Under
Leather,” showing in duPont Fri-
day and Saturday at 7 and 9, is a
lvrical love drama hailed as one
of last year’s most provocative
and disturbing films.

The Technicolor film introduc-
ed Marianne Faithfull in the co-
starring role of a young girl in-
extricably involved with her
lover, played by Alain Delon,
whose savage sexual attraction
imprisons her in a world of erotic
fantasy during an all-night motor-
evcle ride.

USED FRIGIDAIRE
REFRIGERATOR

14 cubic feet, about 6 years old
Excellent Condition
Call before 2:30
261-2963

 

LOST

TAN SUITCASE
with clothes in Red Square
Parking lot—Saturday night.
Name tag with Allison Hill.
df found call 463-5732. Reward.

 

Wanted

Individual with journalism experience to cover Lexington
and Rockbridge Co. school board and government meetings.
Should be available to work for two years. Call for personal
interview:

Lloyd T. Page, Jr.

Buena Vista News

261-2144 or 261-3377

 
  
   
  
   
    

Need Extra Cash

STUDENT LOANS AVAILABLE

es:

4 NO AGE RESTRICTION

_ PEOPLES Finance Service
‘ OF LEXINGTON

: 121 W. Nelson Phone 463-3176

$ $

  

October 3, 1973

 

WA&L students prepare for the one giant leap in the civilian para-
chuting class conducted by Captain Robert Busch of the ROTC de-

partment here.

Jump Club off the ground

—Photo by Bill Robinson

Reaching the heights

By Tom Rittenberg

Over this past weekend thirteen
members of the W&L community
experienced that peculiar falling
sensation that many pizza affici-
anados often dream about. But in
this case the hardy pioneers of
the W&L Jump Club put only the
grace of God and a silk parachute
between life and the otherwise in-
evitable grease splotch on the
ground. Here there was no chance
to wake up before hitting bottom.

These daring adventurers met
last week to form the Jump Club
at the instigation of Captain Ro-
bert Busch of the W&L Army

ROTC detachment. Busch, an ex-
pert parachutist (you may have
seen him in a Colt 45 commercial
a few years back), said that the
club was a civilian organization
open to all. The ROTC unit is act-
ing only as a go-between for the
club. Lieutenant-Colonel Louis
McFadden, the detachment com-
mander, felt that the club fulfill-
ed two goals. First it makes the
ROTC program more diversified,
interesting and dynamic; and sec-
ondly, provides all students with
an opportunity to jump.

The club was trained at the

(Continued on page 8)

? FOR YOUR EXTRA PIECES OF FURNITURE
: Varner & Pole

115 Main St.

— Lexington, Va.

 

4

 

 

 

STUDENT §!

Make this your headquarters for Good Food

and Service

We have meal tickets at savings to you

SOUTHERN INN

>

 

 

 

—)
October 3, 1973

Book beat

By Rome Scott
PROUD FLESH by

William Humphrey (Knopf, $6.95)

In a time when novels about
families and family trees are en-
joving an enormous rebirth,
“Proud Flesh” stands above most.

This book is constructed of
fresh images seated in a new per-

spective and creates a lasting im-
pact.

The Renshaws are typical of a
arge number of Southern families
in many ways—proud, close-knit
and arrogant. The one difference
is the intensity of the sons’ and
daughters’ love for their mother.
That love is the binding power of
the family while Edwina Ren-
shaw is alive and its downfall
when she dies.

 

THE RING-TUM PHI Page 5
The reader takes on a certain ND ft Ee

responsibility when he enters the The Ring-tum Phi invites let-
world of “Proud Flesh” because t-rs from our readers on any
the emotions and burdens of this topic of concern to students,
family struggling to maintain its Letters should be submitted to
existence in a changing society the Ring-tum Phi office in the
cannot go unfelt. first floor of Reid Hall or to

testament to the
hardships of survival, William
Humphrey’s novel stands as a
literary giant in an age when the
midgets run rampant.

A poignant

P.O. Box 899, no later than 6
pan. Monday. The Ring-tum Phi
reserves the right to edit letters
for Ebcl and length. All letters
siould be signed, though names
will be withheld on request.

 

With the Army ROTC Two-Year Program.

If you're going on to a four-year college next
year, you'll be able to make up two years of ROTC in our
six-week Basic Camp.

Then you'll be able to start our Advanced Course /

in your junior year.
You'll be paid $100 a month for up to10 months _,

of your junior and senior years. And you'll earn your
degree and a commission at the same time.

The Army ROTC Two-Year Program.
a second chance for a better career and an excel-
lent future—military or civilian. J wa
Army ROTC. The more you

look at it, the better it looks.

<

7
/
/
/
4
/

/

4
Prof. of Military Science
It’s ; Military Science Bldg.
Vs

Wash, & Lee Univ.

wv Tell me more about the
Army ROTC Two-Year Program.

 

 

 

 

Address
4 City. County.
/
ft State Zip.
College you're attending Phone.
ra JUN 3-02-12
Page 6

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

By Bill Flesher

No, Dan Smith, Tony Perry is
not thinking of transfering to the
University of Virginia.

Nor is he angry with his high
school coaches.

Nor is he unhappy
Washington and Lee.

Nor is he a star.

Ask him.

Oh, that’s right, you did. Except
(1) vou asked a few loaded ques-
tions, and (2) you evidently didn’t
hear his answers.

See, Mr. Smith, your article
that appeared in last Wednesday’s
Roanoke Times, which pictured
the freshman tight end as an “un-
happy star,” is wrong.

I know. I asked him .

True, Mr. Smith, Tony would
have liked the chance to play big-
time college football. But the op-
portunity didn’t present itself, so
he’s here, giving his all.

“I’m not thinking at all about
transfering,’ said Tony on Sun-
day. “The only thing I’m think-

here at

 

East Lexington
Grocery

Beer — Ice — Gas
Party Supplies — Snacks
Open 7 days a week
ABC No, 2078—8 a.m.-10 p.m.
SHOP FOR SUNDAY
EVENING DINNER
We Sell & Deliver Kegs

 

 

 

Paul’s Bike Shop

11 N, New St., Staunton
Phone 886-1310
PAUL Now Excepting All
BIKE REPAIRS at
Sears’ Lexington Store
Pick-Up Every Wednesday
Returned On Wednesday.

Also New 10 Speeds Batavus
Bikes For Sale,

  
   

 

Bye

KEYDET-GENERAL
RESTAURANT

Praty Oaeind the Saray bavevs

Superb Dying wa
Picturesque Atmosphere,
Serving Pood me the

Pine Tradition ol Virgen,

Complete Facilities For

|, Banquets, Weddings & Receptions “*
VOR RESERVATIONS, PHONE 465 2065 03
Une Mile West of Lexington on US. 60 |

ing about is playing and making
this a winning season.”

As for his “problems at Waynes-
boro High,” where he supposedly
“got very little fundamental in-
struction,” you’re right. He never
learned how to play tight end
there, because he never played
tight end there.

“T played split end and middle
linebacker in high school, posi-
tions which required little block-
ing instruction,” Tony replied
when asked about this. He con-
tinued, “I had good coaches in
high school, and they taught me a
lot about playing split end and
middle linebacker—in other
words, how to run patterns, catch
the ball, and stick people.”

As for the headline, Mr. Smith,
which in case you forgot read
“Generals’ Perry is Unhappy
Star,” Tony said:

“Number one, I’m not unhappy
at all to be playing for W&L.
Number two, I don’t see how any-
one could be called a star after

October 3, 1973

Tony Perry--‘Not unhappy, and

only one game, especially as a
freshman.”

a *

This week’s Washington and
Lee—Hampden-Sydney game is
being played Saturday under the
lights at Lynchburg City Stadium.
Here’s why.

The Lynchburg Jaycees donat-
ed a “mobile neo-natal unit” for
use in Lynchburg and the sur-
rounding area, including Lexing-

UNC defeats

The Washington and Lee Rugby
Football Club traveled to Chapel
Hill Sunday to open its season
against the University of North
Carolina, losing, 30-0.

Lynch Christian, a first-year
law student, had a fine game for
Wé&L against his alma mater.
Scrummers Bucky Leslie, Dave
Johnson and John Weigle also had

 

not a star’

ton. The unit, a very expensive
item, has already been credited
with saving the lives of 17 chil-
dren.

The Jaycees are sponsoring this
Saturday’s game as a fund-raising
project to pay for its precious
gift. There are hopes of making
this an annual event.

All W&L students and faculty
members will be admitted free to
the game by showing their W&L
ILD. cards.

Ruggers

good games against UNC as did
backs Jim Kahn, Jim Telling and
Bob Cook.

As usual, after the game, W&L
dominated the party, drinking
more than its share of beer, and
leading in the singing. After all,
it’s not whether you win or lose,
but how well you party after the

(Continued on page 8)

W&L water polo team prepares for state tourney

By John Killpack

The largest Washington and
Lee Water Polo Club ever has be-
gun practice for their fall season.

The large turnout for the club
this year is the cause of a good
deal of optimism concerning the
coming year, according to Coach
Bill Stearns.

Coach Stearns feels that the
club has its best chance ever of
taking the state water polo title
this month in Richmond. The
Generals have been srong run-
ners-up to University of Virginia
in the past two state tournaments,
and Stearns sees the teams from
Virginia and University of Rich-
mond as Washington and Lee’s
strongest threats in this year’s
contest.

This season’s club is paced by
junior captain Dick Barber of

Miami, sophomore goalie Bill
Tiers, and returning starters Will
Brotherton, Jim Howard, and

Gary Seldomridge. A strong group

 
  
  
  
  
 

AND
MOTEL

of freshmen is led by Porter Mc-
Neil, a 1973 Florida All-State
water polo team member.
Coming events on the club’s
schedule include a_ scrimmage
with the team from Virginia Mili-

Soccer team

The soccer Generals of Wash-
ington and Lee opened their sea-
son with a victory over Eastern
Mennonite. The Blue were ahead
for the entire game with the final
score 3-2,

Because this was the first game
for W&L and Eastern Mennonite’s
fourth, the General’s victory looks
more impressive. The score was
2-1 in favor of W&L at halftime.

tary Institute on October 9 and
the state tournament in Rich-
mond on Ocober 25 and 26. Ac-
cording to Coach Stearns, a pre-
tourney scrimmage with Rich-
mond is currently in the works.

triumph, 3-2

Jim Fox and Bill Spofford both
scored goals in the first half with
assists from John Embree. Fox
unassisted aded the final W&L
goal in the second half,

The Generals have two upcom-
ing home games. The first today
against Randolph-Macon. The
game will be at 3 p.m. The second
game is Saturday at 2 p.m. against
Hampden-Sydney.

Washington and Lee University
Gonkstore

Spotlight on the American Indian
American Indian Art

Ina Sacred Manner We Live
American Epic

House Made of Dawn

—Walker

—Curtis

—RMarriott nad Rachlin

—Momaday
October 3, 1973

Stingy Generals blank Centre, 22-0

By Bill Flesher

Fumbles, sophomores, and de-
fense were the stories at Wilson
Field last Saturday, as Washing-
ton and Lee’s football Generals
upped their record to 2-0 by
whitewashing Centre College, 22-0.

W&L’s defense held the Colo-
nels to 165 total yards, while fore-
ing five turnovers, four of them
fumbles. Three of the fumbles
led to 15 of the Generals’ points.

The offense was led by sopho-
mores Jack Berry and Rob Lind-
sey. Berry, starting in the place
of regular quarterback Lewis
Powell, who was held out due to
a sore shoulder, went 10-6 in the
air for 102 yards. One pass was a
19-yard touchdown strike to fresh-
man Jay Monahan.

Lindsey, a starting defenseman
on the General’s lacrosse team,
became the first W&L back to
gain 100 yards this year. His five-
yard touchdown run in the fourth
quarter gave him 102 yards in 23
carries for the day.

We&L got on the board early in
the second period. After Mike
Brittin recovered quarterback
Roy Beard’s fumble at the Centre
22, the Generals took seven plays
to score, with Jim Farrar going
the final yard on a fourth-and-
goal. A fake extra-point attempt
failed, making it 6-0.

Later in the quarter, Walter
Cox picked up a loose ball on the
Centre 22. The offense got down
to the 4, but the drive stalled
there. Coach Bill McHenry called
on Ralph Moore to try a 21-yard
field goal, and the freshman suc-

 

R/C Theatres
Regal Cinema Fare
in Lexington

State Theatre

12-14 W. Nelson St. 463-3424

NOW SHOWING
PAUL NEWMAN

The Mackintosh Man
Brother Sun
Sister Moon

Lyric Cinema
35 S. Main St. 463-3543

Thru Saturday

The Emigrants

Sun. - Mon, - Tues.

The Shanghai
Killers

THE RING-TUM PHI

Page 7

 

 

Senior fullback Jim Farrar powers his way toward the end zone and a Washington and Lee touchdown,

as the Generals thrashed Centre and its jinx this past Saturday, 22-0.

ceeded, giving W&L a 9-0 halftime
lead.

W&L then put together their
only long scoring drive of the
day, 71 yards in eleven plays.
Berry went 4-4 on the drive, hit-
ting passes of 8, 13, 9 and 19
yards. The last one was the touch-
down strike to Monahan which,
with Moore’s conversion, made it
16-0 at the end of three quarters.

W&L’s final touchdown came
after another fumble recovery.
Freshman linebacker Steve White
fell on this one at the 26. Seven
plays later, Lindsey went in from
the five, putting him over the
century figure for the afternoon.
The PAT attempt was blocked,
bu by this time the only thing
left was for the defense to pre-
serve the shutout.

The win meant an end to Cen-
tre’s domination over Washing-
ton and Lee the last six years.

WEL Centre
Terie, EWE. ok hie ccas 10
Boia Ote) TOC .. ihe ces 165

61-203—Atts.-Yards Rushing 39-99

 

tGe=—serUn FASUINE .. 66. 6G 66
10-16-0—Atts.-Comp.-Int. 6-13-1
6-42.0—Punts-Avg. ......... 6-33.2
2-2—Fumbles-lost ............5:4
Foe GPENY 408. 6s cia 67

TGIT

Celebration
Thursday in the
Cockpit

5-6 p.m.

The last time the Generals had
beaten the Colonels was in 1967,
when W&L escaped with a 6-0
triumph.

Wé&L now meets Hampden-Syd-
ney. Though the Tigers are 2-2
this year (losing to Sewanee and
Bridgewater), they’ve given W&L

—Photo by Charles Grubbs

fits in recent years (W&L hasn’t
beaten H-S since 1969). Last year
Hampden-Sydney won here in
Lexington, 34-6. The game will be
played at Lynchburg City Sta-
dium this coming Saturday night
at 8 p.m. W&L students will be
admitted free.

 

 

Hamric and Sheridan
JEWELERS
Watch and Jewelry Repair
Hand Engraving & Class Rings
463-2022

LIVE AND STUDY IN

ROME

LOYOLA UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO
ROME CENTER OF LIBERAL ARTS

* Classes taughtin English
* Allacademic credits transfer
* 60 courses offered each semester:

ANTHROPOLOGY — CLASSICAL STUDIES — ENGLISH
AND ITALIAN LIT. — FINES ARTS — HISTORY —
ITALIAN — PHILOSOPHY — POLITICAL SCIENCE

— PSYCHOLOGY — THEATRE — THEOLOGY

e 350 SCHOOLS REPRESENTED OVER 10 YEARS
@e CAMPUS VILLA HOUSES SOME 275 STUDENTS.

MANY STATE SCHOLARSHIPS TRANSFER
APPLICATIONS ACCEPTED NOW FOR SPRING '74 & 1974-75
SSSCSOOSHSSSSSHSSSSSSSOSSECSCESHCOHESCSHHHCESCOCEHOSESSE

FOR INFORMATION MAIL TO: LOYOLA UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO
ROME CENTER OFFICE, 6525 N. SHERIDAN RD.,

CHICAGO, ILL. 60626

 

NAME

SCHOOL

 

ADDRESS

 

CiTy

STATE ZIP

 

 

 

 

 

 
Page 8 THE RING-TUM PHI

 

Jump Club initiated at W&L by Captain Busch

(Continued from page 4)
New River Valley Parachute Cen-
ter in Dublin, Virginia. The first
jump course forty-five dol-
1 includes all training and

lars and

costs

equipment. Each later jump costs
three dollars. The Center is open
every Tuesday through Sunday.

The Jump Club is still open to

 

do not love

Choose Keepsake
with com late conccane,

assures a perfect
engagememt diamond
of precise eut and
superb color, There is
no finer diamond ring.

Keepsake

DIAMOND RINGS

REGISTERED

HOW TO PLAN YOUR

   

that do not show Ciel Bee.”
W'itee Raespone

 

new members, and will provide
transportation to the Center.
There are no pnysical require-
ments other than generally good
health. If i feel that jumping
from a perfectly good airplane

makes sense, and if
interest in jumping,

you have an
see Captain

ROTC Building.

Busch in the

 

ELDORADO

Rings from $100-$10,000
T-M Reg. A.H. Pond Co,

   

ENGAGEMENT AND WEDDING

 

 

 

 

KEEPSAKE DIAMOND RINGS, BOX 90, SYRACUSE, N.Y. 13201

Se ES ES NE YN SE SN SS KE SS NE CD SE SO Ge Se Ge GOD GND GY GE Ge Gememe

| !
Send new 20 pg. booklet, “Planning Your t ,

full color folder and 44 pg. Bride’s book sift eter a aoe gn ;
| Nome |
| (Please Prine) !
| Address l
| I
| I
| State Zip |

I

{ et )| er a

Competition for
Danforth award

Now Open

(Continued from page 1)

est in careers of teaching and/or
administration in colleges and
universities, and who plan to
study for a Ph.D. in any field of
study common to the undergradu-
ate liberal arts curriculum in the
United States. Applicants must be
under 35 years of age at the time
application papers are filed, and
may not have undertaken any
graduate or professional study be-
yond the baccalaureate. Persons
must be nominated by Liaison
Officers of their undergraduate
institutions by November 20, 1974.
The Danforth Foundation does
not accept direct applications for
the Fellowships. Approximately
100 Fellowships will be awarded
in March 1974.

‘Royal Hunt
of the Sun’

(Continued from page 3)
gation in return, with all its
greed, poverty, and moral degen-
eracy.

Mark Daughtrey will take the
lead as Pizarro to be accompanied
by Brook Johnson as De Soto,
Jack Arnold as Atahualpa, and
David Minton as Old Martin, to
mention only a few.

Thomas’ Royal Hunt will be
the first of three student produc-
tions to be offered at the Trouha-
dour Theatre this year.

W &L Rugby Team
Falls to Tarheels, 30-0

(Continued from page 6)
game that counts.

Sunday, W&L travels to George-
town for a first encounter with
that school. The Generals are still
looking for more players. Practice
sessions are from 4-6 p.m., Tues-
days, Wednesdays and Thursdays
at the Lylburn-Downing Elemen-
tary School above VMI’s stadium.

UNIVERSITY
CLEANERS

Reliable Service In

Dry Cleaning

Linen Service

WE DELIVER

@ 6660066666666 060606666660656666806060660

Storage & Free Moth Proofing

‘

1973

A look at some

Trials of Rush

[he situation for the average
freshman is a unique one indeed
Thrust into a new environment
with strangers all around him he
is put through what would have
to be the most hectic week of his
life,

Given just enough time to un
pack his clothes he is then hustl-
ed off to a motel where he is
filled with bad food and endless
speeches. Then, to top it all off,
he is told to sleep with some
guy he’s never even seen before
Now it wouldn’t be so bad if this
was where all the running around
stopped, for as unpleasant as it
is orientation is an important
program, but this is only the be-
ginning. The real hastle comes
when the freshman is finally buss-
ed back to his dorm. At this point
fraternity Rush takes over where
orientation left off. Heaven forbid
the freshman be allowed
time to think and get adjusted to
his new home away from home.

After paying the “small” sum
of $13.50 our tireless wanderer is
whisked off on, what seems like,
an endless string of open houses
For those who haven’t had the
pleasure of partaking in one of
these festive events, let me supply
you with the details. First of all,
in order to locate the person who
will take you to your first open
house, you must force your way
through the most incredible mass
of humanity this side of a riot
Once recognized you are handed
a card bearing your name. Pin
ning this across your chest you
are then marched off to the first
house on your schedule. Having
reached your destination
spend the ensuing thirty minutes
drinking coca-colas, shaking
hands, and telling 92 people how
much you love the school you
have hardly even seen yet, Finally
when the half hour is up the indi-
vidual is hustled back to his
dorm and the process is repeated

[ am just trying to point out
how hectic and absurd it can be-
come. And then possibly stimulate
someone enough to find answe!
to help the plight of the fresh-
man.

some

you

Shirts Laundered
Clothing Repair

463-3622
The front campus of
Washington and Lee as
depicted by a 19th

century woodcut. The

campus will be designated RR

as a national historic

landmark Friday.

THE RING-TUM

Washington and Lee University’s Weekly Newspaper

  
 

 

 

Vol. LXXIII

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA, OCTOBER 11, 1973

No: 4

Constitution up for vote next week;
‘controversial’ amendments separate

By ROBERT PUGH
The EC Monday night gave a
unanimous stamp of approval to
the new student body constitu-

tion. Student will vote on it next
Monday through Thursday from
9 a.m. to 4 p.m. in the Co-op and
in front of the law school. A

Freshmen elections

scheduled Monday

A total of 28 freshmen are run-
ning for the four offices to be
filled in the freshman election on
Monday, Oct. 15. Runoffs will be
held Thursday, Oct. 18.

Running for the freshman seat

on the Executive Committee are:
Will Cantler, Bill Craver, Phillip

Enrico, Scott Franklin, Bare
Hunter, Tad Leithead, Sandy
Meyer, Mike Monahan, Jesse

O'Neal, Jeff Peck, Dan Westbrook,
Trip Wornom,

Running for the freshman seat
on the University Council are: Ed

Gerhardt, Kenneth Payne, Greg
Walden, Stephen Yevich.

Competing for Freshman Class
President are: Terry Atwood, Bob
Carpentier, Howard Dickinson,
William Kerr, Jim Koch, Thomas
McBride, Jamie Vardell, Ken
Walter.

Running for Vice-President of
the freshman class are: Mike
Armstrong, Carlton Henson, Jay
McCann, Sandy Stradtman.

Each candidate is allowed to
spend $7.50 for campaign ma-

(Continued on page 8)

Of Washington, Lee oddly enough—

Rare portraits to be exhibited in Lee Chapel Friday

Sixteen 18th and 19th century
portraits from the Washington-
Custis-Lee Collections at Washing-
ton and Lee will be on special
display in Lee Chapel here be-
ginning Friday.

The paintings are all recently
restored, several by the late Rus-
sell Quandt of Alexandria and
others by Bruce Etchison who

assumed responsibility for the
restoration project after Mr.
Quandt’s death.

Included in the exhibition —

which has been prepared by the
university in connection with
ceremonies scheduled for Oct, 12
marking the designation of its
front campus as a National His-
toric Landmark—are the portraits

majority of the student body (ap-
proximately 802) must approve
it for passage.

The ballot will be split, with
several possibly controversial!
amendments separate from the
basic constitution, which is re-
latively non-controversial. Amend-
ments include adding another
freshman and law school repre-
sentative to the EC (thereby in-
creasing membership from 12 to
14), allowing exchange students
to vote, and requiring the assent
of three EC members for an
executive session.

Junior rep Bob _ Keatley’s
amendment concerning executive
sessions was approved 6-3 after a
lengthy debate. Sophomore rep
Mike Luttig advocated that sub-
ject matter for executive sessions
be delineated, but most EC mem-
bers expressed the feeling that
this could not feasibly be done.
Present rules specify that one
member may call an executive
session.

of George Washington in the uni-
form of the Virginia militia
(1772), the first portrait of Wash-
ington painted from life, and of
the Marquis de Lafayette (1778),
painted as a gift for Washington.
3oth paintings are by Charles
Willson Peale.

Also on display in the Chapel
will be the portrait of Robert E.

Student Body President Doug
Schwartz suggested that the EC’s
proposal to reapportion the fac-
ulty Courses and Degrees Com-
mittee be resubmitted to the fac-
ulty, which nixed the idea two
weeks ago by a narrow margin
A committee consisting of junior
rep Ben Bailey, senior rep Lewis
Powell, secretary Ben Sherman,
and Schwartz will advocate its
adoption at the faculty meeting in
November.

Schwartz meets with the Board
of Trustees next Friday. He will
discuss the lack of Fine Arts
facilities, the need for an audi-
torium, a proposed increase in
the student tax, and the possi-
bility of a graduating senior be-
ing appointed to the Board of
Trustees for a three-year term.

On next week’s agenda:

Freshman class elections;

Report by Cold Check and Student
Recruitment Committees;
Consideration of regulations for
posting notices.

Lee by Theodore Pine (after a
photograph, 1904).

Other paintings on display will
be portraits of Daniel Parke
Custis, Martha Washington's first
husband, by John Wollaston
(1757); Martha Custis (later Mrs.
George Washington), also by
Wollaston (1757); John Parke and

(Continued on page 8)
THE RING-TUM PHI

Page 2

 

 

louTLOoK and REVIEW

On closed EC sessions

A battle has been won but the war is not over on the issue of clos-
ed meetings of the Executive Committee.

In last week’s editorial, we noted that there was no reference in the
student body constitution regarding the calling of such sessions after
regular EC meetings. We reasoned that there is the distinct possibility
that the EC could discuss in those closed sessions anything which it
wanted, including budgetary matters. This is not to say that the EC
was discussing such matters; we do not know that. Yet, the possibility
remains that the EC could be calling closed sessions for the discus-
sion of any issue.

Monday night the EC moved that an addition be made to the pro-
posed constitution of the student body, stating that it would take three
EC members to call a closed session after the regular EC meeting.

This is certainly a step in the right direction. According to one
EC member, two of the first three closed sessions called by the EC
this year would have possibly been eliminated by this rule. The repre-
sentative said that these two sessions were “trivial,” and that they were
called at the whim of one lone EC representative. If the proposed ad-
dition to the constitution is approved by the students next week, there
would be an end to such situations where one EC member can call a
closed session at his whim.

As we said earlier, however, the war is not over. In approving that
the above amendment be brought to the students for a vote, the EC
still missed a basic point of our editorial last week.

Even though three persons must group together to call a closed
session, there still exists the possibility that anything, including
budgetary matters, could be discussed in those sessions. We are not
saying that such matters are being discussed; we are only noting the
distinct possibility of such discussion. ,

What we are asking for is delineation within the student body
constitution as to what issues are valid as far as calling legitimate
closed sessions is concerned. We contend that closed sessions should
only be called when individual students are being discussed. Ap-
parently the EC disagrees.

The proposal to be brought to a student vote is a step in the right
direction. We hope it will be a catalyst for future action. The war is
not over. Even EC President Doug Schwartz said that the proposal
will remove only “some of the criticism and some of the abuse.” Some
maybe, but shouldn’t all of the abuse be removed? —P.J.L.

Paranoia in the faculty ranks

The defeat of the Courses and Degrees proposal to increase the
number of students in that committee from one to four comes as
a complete shock to students and administration alike, and all are
left in a state of bewilderment.

The proposal was defeated by the faculty, 46-40, in its regular
monthly meeting the first of this month.

The proponents of the proposal have been left speechless. Appar-
ently, it seemed so certain that the motion would be passed by the
faculty that forces for the proposal did not present it to the faculty
as thoroughly as they could have, The consensus was that there
would be little problem in getting the motion through the faculty for
fina] approval.

The only apparent reason for the rejection of the proposal seems
to be a paranoia among some members of the faculty. There exists
some fear that students are slowly taking over the university. The
fear is not only unfounded; it is irrelevant to the passage of the
proposal.

As it now stands, the Courses and Degrees Committee can only
pass recommendations which would go to the faculty for final
approval. The committee has no power in itself to pass proposals.
Even if the committee were made up entirely of students, there would
be no “takeover” of curriculum decisions by students, contrary to the
belief’s of certain faculty members.

The EC Monday decided to re-initiate the Courses and Degrees pro-
posal, i.e., to move it through all proper channels in order to bring
the issue to the faculty again on Nov. 5. We fully support the EC on
this move, and we hope this time that every conceivable effort will
be made to get the proposal approved this time around. —P.J.L.

* * *

Thursday, October 11, 1973

 

TO tt

More on abortion

Sir:

To Mr. Valenzuela: The legaliza-
tion of abortion in some states in
this country has not only saved
many women’s lives, but has, in
fact, “rescued” many babies. This
world is over-populated already.
And, Mr. Valenzuela, has it ever
occurred to you that there are
literally thousands of unwanted
babies in this world leading mis-
erable existences?

I feel quite strongly that I
would not be so delighted with
this world had I been born to an
18-year-old girl with no husband
and no resources and no love.
Have you ever looked at statistics
on suicide latcly, Mr. Valenzuela?
Have you ever wondered why so
many kids have turned to that?
Some of them could have been

spared that misery by a simple
operation before their poor minds
ever began to form?

I am not, surely not, advocat-
ing any brave new world. [
tremble at the thought. Rather [
am advocating a world of sensible
people who are given every op-
portunity for happiness they can
get. Surely we are not to be a
race of mindless sheep breeding
tragedy and misery willy-nilly.
Think about it a little, Mr. Valen-
zuela,

Name withheld

Editor's Note: See Mr. Valen-
zuela’s letter in last week’s Phi.
We feel both sides of the issue
have been presented, and future
letters on this subject will face
possibility of being cut com-
pletely, due to space problems of
this paper.

Ask Traveler

Q.—Al Black is officially on the schoo] calendar. Have there been
other students in the past who have been likewise commemorated?

A.—Certainly. Back in 1938, sophomore Sluggo Sykes achieved al-
manacial fame in much the same manner as dear Al did last year,
by being forcibly carried off into the night. Sluggo, however,
never reappeared in the morning, and, as none of the student-
body owned up to his whereabouts, it was rumored that the
hapless student had been abducted by a pack of wild sheep. Even
today, Rockbridge farmers occassionally report seeing woolly
creatures, allegedly Sluggo’s progeny, wearing boat shoes and
ties and stopping motorists for directions to Sweet Briar.

In 1947, W&L panksters were responsible for the kidnaping
of one poor freshman who was so blandly inoffensive that the
next day no one could remember who he was or where they had
put him. In the Spring, the student was finally found taking
tickets at the Moose Fair carnival grounds and selling sno-cones

Statment of ownership, manage-
ment, circulation, ete. (required
by the acts of Congress of August
24, 1912) of The Ring-tum Phi,
published weekly in Lexington,
Va. 24450, for the year 1973-74,

1. Names and address of the
editor and business manager: Edi-
tor—Paul Lancaster, Lexington,
Va.; Business Manager—Andrew J.
A. Chriss, Lexington, Va.

2. The owner is Washington

and Lee University (Publications
Board), Lexington, Va.

3. The known _ bondholders,
mortgages, and other security
holders are none.

4, The average number of cop-
ies of each issues of this publica-
tion distributed throught the
mails or otherwise to paid sub-
scribers is 1600.

Signed,
Andrew J. A. Chriss

to minors. Evidently, even HE had forgotten who he was.

The practice of giving the name of a deserving student to a
certain calendar day started in the days of Gen. Lee himself. It
seems a certain voung fellow kept creeping up behind the old man
on his Sunday strolls along the Colonnade and giving very loud
imitations of a siege mortar going off. As the war seemed to have
spoiled Gen. Lee’s sense of humor, the student drew an honor
trial and was sentenced to 5 days hard labor on the Library
reading room gang.

Q—Hmmm. And what day commemorates this guy?
A.—Monday.
Thursday, October 11, 1973

‘No Sweat’

Platter chatter

By W. PATRICK HINELY
No Sweat
Blood, Sweat & Tears
Columbia KC 32180

It’s been a long time since
BS&T put out an album of this
calibre; No Sweat is definitely
the best since their second album,
back in 1969. Dedicated BS&T
freaks who may have fallen away
from the band during their com-
mercial changes of the last four
vears will indeed find this album
to be music to their ears. (so to
speak.)

The only remaining original
members are Jim Fielder on bass
and Bob Colomby on drums;
Stve Katz, at long last, is gone,
and with him the underlying di-
vergence of styles that held the
band back for so long.

The new band is the strongest,
most unified musical entity BS&T
has ever been. Everyone does
their own thing, but they don’t
step on each other’s toes; the
stvles blend instead of clashing
as they used to.

Like most other BS&T records,
the album as a whole is a blend-
ing of everything that has hap-
pened in pop music in the last
couple of years. Definitely a
“melting-pot band.”

Side one is a well-assembled set
of songs. First is “Roller Coaster,”
a showcase for the horn section.

Second is “Save Our Ship,”
which almost sinks due to vapid
lvries, but is instrumentally pleas-
ing. Next is “Django,” adapted
from a piece by Django Rein-
hardt, which shows the softer side
of the band beautifully. Then
comes “Rosemary,” a Randy New-
man tune, which is the closest to
old BS&T this record gets.

Fortunately, they remember

only the good things from the old
band: heavy-duty flashy brass and
solid straight-forward rock.

Guitarist George Wadenius
comes through nicely on the cut.
“Song for John,” by reed man
Lou Marini follows. Marini’s sax
solo, together with his overall
arranging and Larry Willis’ key-
boards, make this delicate number
the best one on the album. “Al-
most Sorry” closes out the side.

Unlike most long cuts on rock
albums, this one is justified.
None of the six and a half
minutes is wasted. Everything is
in place on this one: even the
dubbed-in soul chorus vocals
sound right. Fisher’s vocal is
some of the best gutsy singing
I’ve heard, and Willis’ piano work
approaches perfection. The horn
players, as usual, are exact.

Colomby’s drumming,
similar vein, is accurate if not
innovative. Fielder on rhythm
guitar makes his presence worth-
while; it is unfortunate that his
bass playing on the rest of the
album gets lost somewhere down
in the mix.

it

Side two has its high points,
such as the opener, “Up Against
the Wall,” which must have cut
the same day as “Rosemary.”
Marini puts his twist on the
BS&T instrumental-jam format
with “Hip Pickles,” but the side
also contains a weak arrangement
of “Empty Pages,’ and two un-
outstanding numbers which seem
to be the Steve Katz legacy.

Though Katz left the band after
helping muddle New Blood, his
general sad-song influence re-
mains in “My Old Lady” and
“Mary Miles.” But then, no album
is perfect.

(Continued on page 8)

: FOR YOUR EXTRA PIECES OF FURNITURE
: Varner & Pole

115 Main St. —

    
   
   
  

Bg f
LISS

) ce
Y

‘

RESTAURANT

Prady Quan ap the Sovrdey Diavevs

Super Dina wis
Picturesque Atmosphere,
Servi Puviocl re cde

oe Ue

Complete Facilities For

|, Banquets, Weddings & Receptions a
FOR RESERVATIONS, PHONE fo3 2163
One Mile West of Lexiimtonon US. 60

sae a we

Lexington, Va.

   
 
  
  

AND
MOTEL

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

By ROME SCOTT

Pianist Robert Silverman open-
ed the Washington and Lee Uni-
versity Concert Guild season Mon-
day night with flair and a show
of musical excellence that might
well stand as the level to achieve
for the remainder of the series.

Playing with an easy-going, al-
most off-hand, style, Silverman’s
performance was characterized by
an underlying intensity born out
of an emotional involvment with
his music.

He projected the moods of such
diverse pieces as  Copland’s
Piano Sonato (1941)” and
Chopin’s “Nocture in D-flat, Opus
27/2” with equal perceptiveness
of each composer’s intention.

‘Silverman’s precision at the
keyboard did not result in tech-
nically forced music but gave
each selection a life of its own.

From the whimsically light
“Sonata ‘No. 50 in C Major” by
Haydn to the crashingly disonant
“Variations Pour Piano” by Hetu,
Silverman showed a sensitvity of
musical interpretation that did
not betray the worth of any piece
on the program.

Explaining the origin and
intent of some of the less well-

    
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
 

There’s a place ror you on
Piedmont. For a weekend of
fun, a game out of town, a
quick trip home, whatever—
there’s a Piedmont jet or
propjet flight to fit your
plans. With personal,
thoughtful service alway
Piedmont—serving over
cities including Chicago,
New York, Washington,
Norfolk, Atlanta, Memphis.
Call us, or your travel agent.

Ss,
75

Our twenty-fifth year
of service.

Inside-Out

   

known selections before playing
them, Silverman added the depth
of rational understanding to the
emotional impact the music has
when heard.

The flawlessness of Silverman’s
performance intrigued the Lee
Chapel-packing audience and it
refused to let him leave without
an encore.

Rachmaninoff’s “Moment Musi-
cal No. 3 in D minor” topped off
the concert with a perfection that
left no doubt of Silverman’s bril-
liance.

Bg * %

Karl Scruggs brings his well-
known “Revue” to Washington
and Lee next Thursday night
for what has previously been
known as Homecoming Weekend.

Not being a country and west-
ern enthusiast, this critic viewed.
the announcement with skeptic-
ism until hearing the album “May
the Circle Go Unbroken.”

Scruggs’ performance on_ that
album shows that his music is
not only entertaining but relev-
ant. Plunking banjo in_ typical

bluegrass style, Scruggs gives his
music personality with a down-
home flavor that has a special
brand of sophistication.

 

Save Long Distance Calls — Free Reservations

Tickets Cost No More At

TRAVEL UNLIMITED

21 WEST WASHINGTON ST.

463-7174

 
THE RING-TUM PHI

TT)
Page 4

 

SAB sponsors
Scruces Revue

e7 7

By NEIL JOHNSON

The Ring-tum Phi talked to
Michael Brittin, chairman of the
new Student Activities Board,
about a new plan to bring top
quality entertainment to Wash-
ington and Lee.

Recent experience proved the
unfeasibilitv of the “Dance Plan”
program, and the Board worked
hard in pursuit of alternatives.

The creation of the Student
Activities Board (SAB) saw also
the birth of the Entertainment /
Recreation Committee, chaired by
Doug Chase in conjunction with
John Embree and Robert More-
cock.

Acting as part of the SAB, this
subeommittee worked with a Mr.
Willard Galbereath, known. all
over the East Coast as “Gabbo.”
A professional promoter, Gabbo
has worked with the Rolling
Stones, Jethro Tull, and other
big names in music.

Gabbo will assume all financial
responsibilities, both profit and
Joss—thus removing a_ great
burden from the Student Body
economy.

The Student Curriculum Com-
mittee will distribute a course
evaluation questionnaire Monday
for all sophomores, juniors, and

The first concert will be handl-
ed entirely by the SAB with

Gabbo handling many of the seniors.
future concerts. Tickets for the : : :
Seruggs Revue are on sale this The questionnaires will be

given out in all classes and must

week at $4.00 each ($5.00 at the
be placed in the box at the Co-op

door). The time set is Oct. 18.

THE RING-TUM PHI

The Ring-tum Phi is published on Thursdays during the college year.
It is printed by the Journalism Laboratory Press, Washington and Lee
University. The mailing address is Box 899, Lexington, Virginia 24450.
Entered as second class matter September 29, 1946, at the Post Office,
Lexington, Virginia 24450, under the act of March 3, 1879. Subscription
rates: $6.00 for the school year, $3.00 for the semester.

ANDREW J. A. CHRISS
Business Manager

PAUL J. LANCASTER
Editor-in-chief

UR i oo ss Jess Reeves
Cg ee gree ee Bill Austin
Py ig ge eee eS .. Bill Robinson
Features Editors... . ssa... aS Palmer Trice, Robert Gurnee

Cerra a se David Lee
APIS a2 i Dave Finnell, John Killpack, Chuck Alt
Caseratyy) 2S C—.. 63 Tim Moore, Steve Yevich, Tom Rittenburg,

Rome Scott, Vance Marlowe, Bill Flesher, Paul Morella

 

Need Extra Cash

STUDENT LOANS AVAILABLE
NO AGE RESTRICTION

PEOPLES Finance Service

OF LEXINGTON

 

121 W. Nelson Phone 463-3176

$ $

   

 

stinction of becoming a National Historic Landmark
in its total effect as seen by night.

by Wednesday. Questions concern-
ing the calendar, distribution re-
quirements, new courses and in-
dividual courses, asking for critic-
ism on each. Students will be
able to critique eight courses on
the questionnaire.

Additional questionnaires will
be available in the Co-op Tuesday
from 8 to 11:30 a.m.

Dorm counselors will distribute
a separate questionnaire to fresh-
men to determine first impres-
sions of W&L,

Student Curriculum Committee
officials note that the purpose of
the questionnaires is to aid in the
formulation of curriculum com-
mittee proposals in the coming

NOTICE
There will be a meeting of stu-
dents interested in working with
the Student War Memorial Schol-
arship Fund Committee on Mon-
day, October 15, in the Student
Center, Rm. 114.

Thursday, October 11, 1973

It is the unity and simplicity of the Washington group which has earned the Front Campus the di-

the Colonnade combines symmetry and variation

—Photo by Charles Grubbs

Curriculum questionnaires
to be distributed Monday

year and to make the committee
more responsive to student needs.

Film on ESP
comes ta WEL

A documentary film on Extra
Sensory Perception will be shown
in duPont Auditorium at 7:30 p.m.
Monday, Oct. 15.

The film wil Ibe shown at nc
charge and will be followed at
8 p.m. with a talk by Dr. Robert
L. Van deCastle, of the Division
of Parapsychology, University of
Virginia Medical School.

Dr. Van deCastle is director of
the University of Virginia Sleep
and Dream Laboratory and will
discuss some similar experiments
involving mental telepathy and
dreams. He will also comment on
other significant developments in
the rapidly growing field of para-
psychology.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

K Sy
STUDENTS!
Make this your headquarters for Good Food
and Service
We have meal tickets at savings to you
SOUTHERN INN
( J

 
Thursday, October 1

Out and about the hamlet—

Pickin’ Parlor o

By DARRYL CARLTON

Looking for a good place to eat
in Lexington? Looking for some
blue-grass and folk music to en-
tertain you? Try the “Appalachi-
3n Pickin’ Parlour,” a combina-
tion restaurant, music store, and
entertainment center run single-
handedely by Larry Wiesner.

It is located next to the Uni-
versity Theatre, on Main Street,
a place which retains fond
memories of those of us who

1, 1973

iJ74ii J

njoved the tmosphere of
“People’s Food Restaurant.” Some
of the music remains the same.

Now, however, the emphasis in
6n Blie-erass music, of wien
Wiesner is a great enthusiast as
well as a performer. The food
has changed radically from
organic health foods to submarine
sandwiches, a circumstance that
will be applauded by some and
deplored by others. However, the
food is still good, and still cheap.

Walk for hunger set;
take off on Saturday

This Saturday, the Hunger
Walk will take off for a second
year. The hike is sponsored by
the Ministerial Association of Lex-
ington and Buena Vista. It takes
no money to participate in this
cause. Instead, each walker gets
others to sponsor him. His spon-
sors agree to pay him a set
amount for every mile he walks.
The proceeds from the walk will
go to relief work: 50% will go to
the Rockbridge Area Relief As-
sociation, which provides emerg-
ency help for the poor in this
area, and 50% will go to CROP,
the Community Hunger Appeal of
Church World Service, which uses
the money in its world-wide relief

program.

To participate in the walk, the
walker first picks up a registra-
tion form in Ken Lane’s office

in the Student Center. He or she

 

INTERNATIONAL
CAREER?

A representative
will be on the campus

Tuesday, October 16, 1973

to discuss qualifications for
advanced study at
THUNDERBIRD
GRADUATE SCHOOL
and job opportunities
in the field of

INTERNATIONAL MANAGEMENT

 

Interviews may be scheduled at

Placement Office

THUNDERBIRD
GRADUATE SCHOOL
OF
INTERNATIONAL MANAGEMENT
Glendale, Arizona 85306

 

 

 

 

then finds sponsors who agree to
pay him so much per mile. The
more sponsors a person can get,
the more he collects for CROP and
RARA. According to Ken Lane,
students should consider their

(Continued on page 8)

 

crn

—
tase

 

Wiesner came to Lexington

brought about a change
After the
which almost killed him, he
conclusion that his
$15,000 a year job as an account-
ant was not what he was interest-
ed in. He decided to start a busi-
ness which he could enjoy, as
well as give enjoyment to thers.

Ei is tes yc. acci-
dent,

came to the

Ae he rie or is frienc
Freddy Goodhart, also an excel-
lent blue-grass musician, he de-
cided to start his new business
in Lexington. The Appalachian
Pickin’ Parlor “is more of a music
store than a restaurant,” he ex-

plained. “Eventually, I hope to
make this place into a coffee-
house type establishment, with

musicians getting paid for their
performances.” Although he can’t
pay musicians yet, he stated that
he would be glad to have any
folk or blue-grass musician to
come in and play or jam.

3?

also sells
well as

The “Pickin’ Parlour
blue-grass records, as

YY TUL
TL A ded!

 

1uUC-91 aSs

JiCK

Wieser will soon have two
dulcimers for sale also. Although
he does not have many other
instruments on display, he is an
authorized dealer for a _ large

music concern. He said that he
would be glad to order any musi-
cal instrument out of his dealer’s
catalogue for those interested.
Another part of the multi-faceted
“Pickin —Pariour is tie jeatier
shop, run by Jeff Massal. He
uses tools for hand-carving as
well as punches and commented
that the use of hand-carving tools
is dving out as a result of mass-
production stamps and punches.

Wieser also said that his motor-
cycle accident “put everything in-
to sharp focus. I don’t want any-
body to rip me off and I don’t
wont to Fp any pecy ore
said he hopes to find customers

and listeners from all three
groups in Lexington: the VMI

cadets, the W&L students, and the
townspeople.”
Page 6

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

An NBA preview:

By JOHN ELLIS

NBA basketball hits the courts
(egal battles aside) this week. A
review of the NBA’s situation is
due—and a_ projection (sports-
writers always need an excuse,
any excuse to fill a column).

The NBA embarks on its 25th
season missing several things: a
clear favorite for the title, Wilt
Chamberlain, a dynasty in power,
and the urge to merge with the
rival league. Each of these miss-
ing factors will have detrimental
effects on the coming season, as
the past tones the future in other
matters.

No one can ciaim to hold the
pre-season favorite role. Eastern
divisions fans will pick between
New York and the rejuvenated
30ston team. Both clubs place
their hopes on aging stars. New
York offers Dave DeBusschere,
Willis Reed, and gimpyv kneed
Earl Monroe, while Boston count-
ers with a battered star of its
own in John Havlicek. Western-
ers will argue that Los Angeles
remains formidable, sans Chamb-

FOR SALE

Several Relco treasure finders at
special prices. Call 463-3607.

Paul’s Bike Shop

11 N. New St., Staunton
Phone 886-1310
PAUL Now Accepting All
BIKE REPAIRS at
Sears’ Lexington Store

Pick-Up Every Wednesday
Returned On Wednesday.
Also New 10 Speeds Batavus
Bikes For Sale.

erlain, as young Elmore Smith
moves over from Buffalo in ex-
change for sweet-shooting Jim
MeMillian. Alas, the Lakers also
must rely on a performer of many
years, Jerry West, one who very
reluctantly signed on for another
grueling season. To be sure,
Golden State or Phoenix are cap-
able of p!:aving championship ball,
wheneve: cither team pulls its
brilliance together into cohesive
unit.

Elsewhere, midwesterners will
wait anether vear for the Mil-
waukee dynasty to flower, or will
try to keep track of Nate Archi-
hald’s record-setting play.

This somehow brings the analy-
sis to Wilt Chamberlain. The tall
one swaved under the burden of
great lumps of money and will
find himself playing in a 3200
seat capacity gym. Moreover, Wilt
will surely find himself pushed
and shoved in the ABA, where
officials wear blinders. He will,
worst of all, find himself coach-
ing the San Diego Conquistadors.
An interesting sidelight emerges
with this last development an
adage of the NBA says Chamber-
lain is hard to coach. In his new
position of player-coach, how will
he handle himself?

The loss of Chamberlain will
hurt the NBA gate, and Los
Angeles will have to start doing

W@&L harriers win 3 of

The Washington and Lee Uni-
versity cross-country team won
three of five dual meets Satur-
day in its first competition of the
1973 season,

The Generals of Coach Dick
Miller thumped Hampton _Insti-
tute and Norfolk State by identi-
cal 15-50 scores and_ topped

LMM MEME abbot
: ;' : ‘
: The First National Bank :
: of Lexington *
% : : .
= has special checking accounts for students :

Dry Cleaning

Linen Service

WE DELIVER

UNIVERSITY
CLEANERS

Reliable Service In

Storage & Free Moth Proofing

Shirts Laundered

Clothing Repair

463-3622

Thursday, October 11, 1973

trouble

the things it may have forgotten
about—like helping out the center
on defense. Indeed, L.A. and the
NBA will suffer more from the
move than Wilt.

‘Next? No dynasty. Since the
great Boston teams of the last
decade (headed by Bill Russell,
now Seattle’s coach), no team has
mustered back-to-back champion-
ships, or even two in a three year
span. New York has some close
(two out of four years), and Los

Angeles, with Wilt, tried vali-
antly. The best chance for a
future dynasty lies with Mil-

waukee. It may never develop,
but, with Kareen Abdul-Jabbar in
the middle, the Bucks have the
most resilient power at present.
Oscar Robertson’s aging casts
shadows on the hopes of Buck
domination.

The final piece missing in the

(Continued on page 7)

 

A goalie’s-eye view of the action.
in W&L’s win over Randolph.
Macon last week.

—Photo by Bill Robinson

Soccer team remains unbeaten

By MIKE McCOLLOCH

The Washington and Lee soccer
team defeated Hampden-Sydney
here last Saturday afternoon, 1-0.

The Generals dominated most
of the game both offensively and
defensively, taking 20 shots at the
goal to Hampden-Sydney’s four.
The goal was scored unassisted

5 dual competitions

Christopher Newport, 19-42.

W&L dropped meets to Roanoke
and Old Dominion by identical
40-21 scores.

The Generals will take to the
road Saturday for a _ four-way
meet at Lynchburg College, along
with Virginia Wesleyan and
Christopher Newport.

Washington and Lee University

Bonkstore

Spotlight on the American Indian
American Indian Art

Ina Sacred Manner We Live
American Epic

House Made of Dawn

by Aly El Tahry, seven minutes
into the second half.

After a brief scuffle, co-captain
Rolf Piranian was ejected from
the game, along with one of
Hampen-Sydney’s players. Later
in the second half, W&L goal-
keeper Paul Devine landed on
the ball directly in front of the
goal and was kicked by a Hamp-
den-Sydney forward. The referees
ejected the Hampden-Sydney man,
After a verbal dispute over one
of the referees’ calls, the entire
W&L team was given an official
warning.

El Tahry, a sophomore, was
selected by the coaches as the
offensive star of the game, and
senior Barclay Armstrong and
sophomore Bobby Sillers were

(Continued on page 7)

—Walker

—Curtis

—Marriott nad Rachlin

—Momaday

 

 

 
Thursday, October 11, 1973

Hampden-S

Washington and Lee football
coach Bill McHenry should have
known he might be in for a long
night last Saturday, after the van
carrying the W&L “advance
party” broke down on the way to
Lynchburg.

It went downhill from there in
the Hill City as McHenry’s Gen-
erals were pasted, 42-6, by a fired-
up bunch of Hampden-Sydney
Tigers in the Jaycee-sponsored
game in Lynchburg’s City Stad-
ium.

“We were soundly beaten by a

better football team,’’ Coach Mc-
Henry noted. “They were well-
prepared in every aspect of the
game.

Another tip-off came when the
opposing Hampden-Sydney squad
burst out of its dressing room and
literally trampled several of its
own players.

“We were certainly disappoint-
ed with our performance,” Mc-
Henry continued. “But rather
than look back on the mistakes
we made, we are looking forward
to redeeming ourselves this Satur-

Hoyas top Ruggers

The Washington and Lee Rugby
Football Club centured to Wash-
ington, D.C., this past weekend
engaging the powerful George-
town Hoyas.

The ruggers were only able to
filed one side for the match, con-
sequently, they faced a fresh
Hoya team in each half. Amidst
a flurry of penalties, the George-
town “A” team rucked over the
Generals, 11-4. Georgetown “B”
also won, 13-0. The Washington
and Lee try was scored by Jim
Kahn as he fielded a kick that
was blocked by Bob Cooke.

RUGBY NOTICE
The Washington and Lee Rugby
Football is Club still seeking new
players. Undergraduates are need-
ed, Practice is at 4 p.m. at the
Lylburn Downing Elementary
School.

 

R/C Theatres
Regal Cinema Fare
in Lexington

State Theatre
12-14 W. Nelson St. 463-3424

NOW SHOWING
— ONE

Blume In Love

Rated R

WEEK —

Lyric Cinema

135 S. Main St. 463-3543

NOW SHOWING

7 Blows of the
Dragon

SUN.MON.-TUE.
2
Ludwig

(The Mad King

of Bavaria)

 

As usual, the ruggers dominat-
ed the party against superior
forces. Special awards go to Dave
Johnston and Jon Weigle for total
beer consumption and to Steve
Hienicke and Bob Cooke for most
improved singers.

Next week the rugby club
travels to Old Dominion Univer-
sity.

Prof intttates
outdoors club

Washington and Lee has one
advantage over most other east-
ern schools. Its setting in the
heart of the Blue Ridge Mountains
puts us just minutes away from
a myriad of possible activities.
Most of us, however, have either
never taken the time or realized
the opportunities that such a set-
ting allows. Now we have the
chance.

The W&L Outing Club will hold
its initial meeting tonight in
Rooms 112 and 113 of the Student
Union. Club members will be able
to enjoy trips in hunting, fishing,
canoeing, spelunking, skiing, and
more.

The spearhead of the group is
Anthropology Professor John Mc-
Daniel with inspiration from the
Darmouth Outing Club, Not only
will the W&L group provide both
freshmen and upperclassmen with
a new perspective on what the
surrounding countryside has to
offer, it will give new life to the
average W&L man’s weekend.

The emphasis will be placed on
Rockbridge County, but there will
be trips to many parts of Virginia
and to nearby states.

 

TGit

Celebration
Thursday in the
Cockpit

5-6 p.m.

THE RING-TUM PHI

Page 7

 

day against Randolph-Macon.”

For the third week in a row,
W&L will face a team which lost
the previous Saturday (the Yel-
low Jackets fell last week to
Maryville, 27-7). “But this week
we'll have the same advantage,”
tongue-in-cheeked McHenry.

“Randolph-Macn is a good foot-
ball team, well-coached,” Mc-
Henry said, ‘““We’ll have our hands
All;

The Generals (2-1) and Yellow

ydney dumps W&L 42-6

Jackets (2-2) will be renewing a
series which dates to 1916 (when
W&L won, 80-0). But the two
teams have not met since 1969,
when Howie Stevens led R-M to
a 41-16 triumph. W&L’s last vic-
tory in the series came in 1967
by a 13-12 score.

Overall, the series stands 10-6-1
in W&L’s favor.

Kickoff on Randolph-Macon’s
Day Field in Ashland will be at
2:00 p.m.

Cumulative statistics

Cumulative statistics for three
games:

Season results: W&L 29, Hamil-
ton 7; W&L 22, Centre 0; Hamp-
den-Sydney 42, W&L 6.

Passing: Powell—18-38-0, .474
percentage, 270 yards, one touch-
down, longest pass 63 yards;
Berry—11-21-0, 524 percentage,
112 yards, one touchdown, long-
es tpass 19 yards.

Rushing: Lindsey—52 carries
for 167 yards and a 3.2 average,
two touchdowns; Nolan—22 for 79
yards and a 3.6 average; Farrar—
28 for 63 yards and a 2.3 average,
two touchdowns; Berry—15 for 41
and a 2.7 average; Powell—28 for
40 and a 1.4 average, two touch-
downs.

NBA: full of

questionmarks

(Continued from page 6)

NBA’s hope chest is the urge for
a merger. Two leagues cost
money, and lots of it. As an ex-
ample, Ernie DiGregorio signed
for $2.3 million. The NBA hat lost
Chamberlain and Dave DeBus-
schere’s administrative talents to
the nearby Nets for next season,
and will certainly drop a bundle
more cash on next year’s college
draft. Bill Walton will surely fol-
low the legion of UCLA players
who have reaped riches from the
bidding war of grasping leagues.
With such thoughts as these of-
fered for contemplation, the mus-
ing ends. In summary, the NBA’s
1973-74 season will not be out-
standing, not if the past is any
prelude. Troubles lie ahead.

NOTICE
FUN TRIALS for pointing dogs
at Thunder Ridge, Sunday 1 p.m.

 

East Lexington
Grocery

Beer — Ice — Gas
Party Supplies — Snacks
Open 7 days a week
ABC No, 2078—8 a.m.-10 p.m.
SHOP FOR SUNDAY
EVENING DINNER
We Sell & Deliver Kegs

 

 

 

Receiving: Perry—8 receptions
for 147 yards and 1 touchdown;
George—7 for 105 yards; Farrar—
7 for 55 yards.

Tackling: Wallace—21 tackles,
11 assists, 32 total; Van Am-
burgh—18-9-27; Steinmetz—16-5-21;
Turk—12-9-21.

Total Offense: Powell—40 yards
rushing, 270 passing, 310 toal;
Lindsey—167 rushing, 167 total;
Berry—41 rushing, 112 passing,
153 total.

Miscellaneous—Punt returns—
Brittin—6 returns for 76 yards;
kickoffs returns—Nolan—4 for 76
yards; interceptions—Brittin—2
for 17 yards; fumble recoveries—
Kulp—2.

Tigers booted by W&L;

Soccer team now 3-0
(Continued from page 6)

designated the defensive all-stars.
The Generals are 3-0 for the
season. Last Thursday they de-
feated Randolph-Macon (last
year’s state co-champions) by a
score of 1-0. The goal was scored
twelve minutes into the second
half by Jim Fox, from an assist
by John Embree. On Sept. 29, they
beat Eastern Mennonite, 3-2.

This week the team travels to
John Hopkins and Lebanon Val-
ley, their first away games of the
season. Their next home game is
this Tuesday against Roanoke.

 

Hamric and Sheridan
JEWELERS
Watch and Jewelry Repair
Hand Engraving & Class Rings
463-2022

 

 

 

   
     
   
 

Wendell’s
Barber Shop

OPEN 9-6

9 South Jefferson

 

Closed Wednesday
Page 8

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

Frosh elections Monday
(Continued from page 1)

terials in the general election and
$2.50 in a runoff election. No more
than 25 posters may be posted
at one time. Posters can be
placed only at the freshman resi-
dences and in Evans Dining Hall.
Each freshman has been asked
by the EC to remove his own
posters after the election. An ex-
pense account from each candi-
date is due in the EC box by 6
p.m. Sunday for the Monday elec-
tion, and a separate account is
due at 6 p.m. Wednesday for those
candidate in the runoff.

 

Thursday, October 11, 1973

Portraits displayed in chapel

(Continued trom page 1)
Martha Custis, the children of
Mrs. Washington by her first
marriage and George Washing-
ton’s stepchildren, also by Wollas-
ton (1760); Frances Parke Custis,
whose son was Martha Washing-
ton’s first husband, by an un-
known artist (about 1725);

Also, John Custis IT, known
as “Tulip” Custis, father of
Martha \Washington’s first hus-
band, als») | v an unknown artist
(about 1°25); Anne Hill Carter
Lee, motrier of Gen. R. E. Lee,
by an unknown artist (last

gett

Your Happy Shopping Store

quarter, 18th century), Lt. and
Mrs. Robert E. Lee by William
Edward West (shortly after their
marriage in 1831—this is the first
portrait ever painted of Lee);
Elizabeth Parke Custis, grand-
daughter of Mrs. George Wash-
ington, by Robert Edge Pine (18th
century );

Also, William Fitzhugh of
Chatham, grandfather of Mrs.
Robert E. Lee, by an unknown
artist (1801), and two portraits
of George Washington Parke
Custis of Arlington, Mrs. R. E.
Lee’s_ father,

 

‘Andhurst’ Nylon Satin Snorkle,
Arctic Pile-Lined Flip Hood

$31

Authentic Air Force styling: navy, sage or deep green.

Contrasting

orange jumbo

double-track

stitching.

Pockets, heavy duty zippers, deep hand-warmer pockets.

Super-reinforcements at all the key strain points. And
warm! S, M, L, XL.

DOWNTOWN
LEXINGTON, VA.
463-3111

OPEN DAILY 9:30-5:30
FRIDAY NITE TILE = 8:30
SATURDAY 9:30-5:30

 

Placement Interviews

Mon., Oct. 15—UpJohn Com-
pany, Wash. 7, 9 a.m-4 p.m.
Tues., Oct. 16—Thundernird }

Grad. Business, Wash. 7, 9-4. }

Univ. of Pittsburgh Grad.
Bus. Univ. Center, 9-4.
Thurs., Oct. 18—Northwestern
Grad. Sch. of Mgmt. Wash. }
7, 9-4.

Washington Univ. Grad. Bus.
Univ. Center, 9-11:30.

Friday, Oct. 19—Price Water
House, Univ. Center. 9-4.
Tulane Univ. Grad. Sch. of
Bus. Wash. 7, 9-4.

 

 

 

Walk for hunger

(Continued from page 5)
teachers and other faculty for

sponsors, as well as other stu-
dents who aren’t planning to
walk.

The walk will begin with

registration on Saturday, October
13, at 12 noon. It will begin at
the Lexington High School Rec-
reational Field. It will end after
exactly 10 miles at Glen Maury
Park in Buena Vista. Sandwiches
and cokes will be provided at the
end of the walk. Transportation
back to Lexington will also be
provided. Checks from sponsors
should be made payable to Bob
Withers, who is the treasurer of
the Hunger Walk.

Series of Ford
films sscheduled

A John Ford retrospective will
be offered in the following three
weeks by the Washington and
Lee Film Committee. Admission
to all showings is free.

The schedule:

Wednesday, Oct. 17—My Darl.
ing Clementine; starring Henry
Fonda, Victor Mature, and Walter
Brennan. 7 p.m. duPont.

Wednesday, Oct. 24 — Stage-
coach; starring John Wayne and
Claire Trevor. 7 p.m. duPont.

Wednesday, Nov. 7—The Long
Voyage Home; starring John
Wayne, Thomas Mitchell, and
Barry Fitzgerald. 7 p.m. duPont;
and Two Rode Together; starring
James Stewart and Richard Wid-
mark. 9 p.m, duPont.

‘No Sweat’

(Continued from page 3)

“Inner Crisis” closes out the
album. It is Willis’ tour-de-force;
the man has been listening to
Rachmaninoff, it would seem.
But that’s not all, for it turns
into a full-fledged rocker. He has
more in his head than BS&T can
fit into their framework, but he
makes himself fit. So do all the
others.

Blood, Sweat and Tears has
proven that commercially-orient-
ed music can sound good.
THE RING-TUM PHI

Washington and Lee University’s Weekly Newspaper
LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA, OCTOBER 18, 1973

Vol. LXXITI

Reunions, homecoming dance planned—

Scruggs opens homecoming 1973

Washington and Lee swings in-
to its first big weekend of the
term tonight as the Student
Activities Board brings the Ear]
Scruggs Revue to Doremus Gym
ast 8 p.m. Admission at the door
is $5 per person.

Friday night, the Impressions,
ack-up group to Curtis Mayfield,
will be providing the entertain-
vent in Old Doremus Gym from
7:30 p.m, to midnight in the
fAomecoming dance. Admission is
*3 per couple.

Saturday afternoon, the W&L
otball Generals entertain West-
ern Maryland on Wilson Field,
veginning at 1:30 p.m. W&L is
urrently 2-2 in the season.

A homecoming queen will be
rowned during halftime activi-

Run-offs held
today for frosh
class elections

Nobody won in Monday’s fresh-
nan class elections, so a run-off
for all four available offices is be-
ing held today. The top two vote-
getters for each position are in
run-offs.

Still officially in the competi-
tion for the EC seat are Scott
Franklin and Jesse O’Neal. Vying
for the freshman position on the
University Council are Ken Payne
and Greg Walden. Jim Koch and

bow

o

c

the

Ken Walter are competing for
class president; Sandy _ Stradt-

“an and Jay McCann are racing
for the vice-presidency.

Following are the results of
Monday’s vote, with approximate
percentages of the total votes cast
in each race for the major candi-
lates:

EC Representative—Franklin,
76 votes (28%); O’Neal, 45 (16%);
Westbrook, 38 votes; Wornom, 24:
Monahan, 20; Enrico, 19; Meyer,
11; Craver, 10; Hunter, 10; Leit-
head, 10; Cantler, 7; 2 write-in
votes for Peck; 1 write-in for
Garr; total votes cast—273.

UC Representative—Payne, 77
votes (30%); Walden, 77 (30%);
Yevich, 68: Gerhardt, 35; total
votes cast—257.

Class President—Koch, 47 votes
(17%); Walter, 46 €17%); Car-
pentier, 44; Atwood, 38; Dickin-
son, 33; Vardell, 26; Kerr, 25; Mc-
Bride, 12; total votes cast—271.

Vice-President—Stradtman, 111
votes (44%): McCann, 72 (28):
Armstrong, 42; Henson, 28; total

)

votes cast—253.,

ties of the game. The queen will
be chosen from among candidates
nominated by fraternities and
other student groups on campus.
It is expected the winner will
receive a customary congratula-
tory kiss from Dr. J. K. Shilling-
ton, chemistry professor.

Fall

alumni reunions will also

be held during the weekend for
graduating classes of 1928, 1938,
1943, 1953, and 1968. On tap for
visiting alumni are class_ ban-
quets, a reception at the presi-
dent’s home, a round of cocktail
parties and other social events,
and a panel discussion Friday at
11 a.m. in Lee Chapel on the

 

Governor Linwood Holton looks on as Board of ‘Trustees Rector Dr. John

Number 5

constitutional question of im-
peachment.
Scruggs represents the first

concert brought to W&L this year
under the auspices of the re-

cently formed SAB. Various re-
views of the Scruggs Revue have
acclaimed the star
banjo player around.

as the best

 

3

$

   

Newton Thomas receives

a certificate marking W&L’s front campus as a natoinal historic landmark. The ceremony took place

last Saturday.

—Photo by Charles Grubbs

onstitutional vote ends today;
part of main proposition attacked

By ROBERT PUGH

The EC Monday night attacked
the “secret hatchetmen,” those
persons being the anonymous
authors of a statement condemn-
ing the revised, updated consti-
tution.

Law school rep. Tom King, who
drafted most of the proposed
constitution, said “we tried to
make these (decisions about
changes) as open as possible.” He
added that the amendments were
drafted during three open EC
meetings. Additionally, a public
hearing was held and publicized.
Only one student showed up.

No one ever complained about
the procedure for constitutional
amendments, which makes it eas-
ier to make changes. Presently
half the student body must vote

for a change, and it is almost
impossible to get that many
people to cast ballots, the EC
said. The new provision would

require a two-thirds major of
those who vote in an election in
which at least half the students
participate.

Both junior reps expressed dis-
may-at the unsigned statement.
Ben Bailey suggested that stu-
dents with questions about the
constitution ask EC members for
an explanation. Bob Keatley chal-
lenged the “hatchetmen’s” accur-
acy by pointing out that the new
constitution created many more
elective positions than it abolish-
ed,

Constitutional polls are open in
the Co-op and law school through
4 p.m. today.

Applications for chairman of
the Film Committee are due Mon-
day at 6 p.m. Former chairman
Dave Hilton resigned. All interest-
ed in the film committee should
apply, as some may be appointed

PLACEMENT INTERVIEWS

Friday — Price Water House,
University Center, 9 a.m. to 4 p.m.
Friday — Tulane Graduate

School of Business,
7,2 4.m. to 4 p.m.

Tuesday — Vanderbilt
of Law,
+ p.m.

Washington

School
Washington 7, 9 a.m. to

as committee members. Inter-
views are at 8 p.m. Monday night.
Gary Avery, chairman of the
Student Recruitment Committee,
reported that his committee has
received additional money for
minority scholarships. He added
that a trip is planned to New
York City for raising money.

In other action, the EC ap-
proved Student Activity Board

Chairman Mike Brittin’s request
to make Rob Amsler, treasurer,
and Dennis Oakley, secretary,
members of the board,

Next week:

—Cold Check Committee and
Curriculum Committee Reports

—Regulations for posting
notices decided.
Wednesday — U.Va. School of

Business, Washington 7, 9 a.m. to
t+ p.m.

NOTICES
The Wé&L Stage Band meets
every Wednesday at 6:15 p.m.; all
interested are encouraged to
come,
Page 2 THE RING-TUM PHI

 

louTLOOK and REVIEW

A matter of logic

Today is, in case you haven't noticed, the last day to vote on
the proposed student body constitution drawn up by the Executive
Committee.

In order for the proposed document to be approved, half of the
student body (approximately 802 students according to the EC)
must vote in favor of it. This leads to a problem. That this problem
exists is exemplified by the fact that the EC has stretched the voting
period on the constitution to four days, from Monday until today, in
order to get as many students voting on the proposal as possible.

The problem is that there probably aren’t enough students who
really care enough one way or the other about the constitution to
yote on it, which leads us to a dilemma whose logic may be a bit
difficult to follow.

One part of the proposed constitution calls for a revamping of
the voting procedure on constitutional issues. This would require,
instead of majority approval of the whole student body, a two-thirds
majority approval of those voting if at least half vote. This could
feasibly mean that one-third of the student body could decide the
issues.

Now, for those who think that this is not democracy, the proposal
could be defeated in one of two ways—it could be voted down by a
majority of the student body (and it is doubtful that 802 students
would come out and vote against the constitution) or 801 or less stu-
dents would vote for the measure, in which case a majority is not
obtained.

Now let us consider the more likely of the two possibilities: not
enough votes to approve the constitution are mustered, and the specific
clause with the rest of the constitution fails. This is certainly a round-
about way of defeating the measure, and it soundly illustrates the
reason why the proposal was raised in the first place. The proposal
would prevent motions from failing just because not enough persons
were interested in voting. Which leads us to our dilemma.

If not enough students vote, the need of the proposal will be
illustrated; thus the proposal (which, in case you've forgotten by
this time, would allow two-thirds of students voting, if a majority
of the whole student body votes, to decide an issue) should be
approved. But it won’t be because not enough students voted.

If a majority of the student body approves the constitution along
with the proposal in question, then it could be doubted that such a
proposal is needed, since a majority is mustered.

About the only logical course of action would be defeat of the
proposal (and, unfortunately, the rest of the constitution with it) by
a majority of the students, at least 802 of hem.

It is unfortunate that the proposal was 1) set up the way it was
and 2) included along with the general body of the constitution. But
al] is done and there remains only one task to be accomplished.

Get out and vote. —P.J.L.

Entertainment returns to W&L

Tonight represents one of the first fruits of the labors of a newly-
formed group which has been wrongly called everything from the
Students Affairs Board to the Student Affairs Committee to, heaven
forbid, the Dance Board, but which has been working constantly since
last May as the Student Activities Board.

Scruggs is not the first SAB production; the board has presented
“Who Killed JFK?” in co-sponsorship with Contact, Jerome Mac-
Murray, a Wednesday Forum on town and gown relations, and a
much-improved roster of films. And, Friday night, SAB brings the
Impressions to W&L for a homecoming dance.

Looking to the future, two projects of the SAB already stand out:
the signing of a promoter to bring in name groups to the school, and
the signing of the National Shakespeare Company to perform “As
You Like It” in January in, good heavens, Doremus Gym.

Thus far, the creation of the SAB last May to unite and coordinate
all student activities has produced a marked improvement in the
rather activity-less environment of this university. SAB could be the
turning point at W&L—turning the mass exodus of trips down the
road, leaving the college void of activity, to an exodus toward W&L
to partake in an ever-increasing list of activities on this campus.

But, SAB is still young, and is still in danger of making some
wrong moves. Before the board lashes out at new areas of entertain-
ment and cultural activities, it should, before year’s end, formulate
a constitution or at least some written doctrine oulining procedure,
precedence, and the like pertaining to the board.

And so, as SAB moves ahead in its formative months at W&L,
we hope it moves not only toward a goal of reincarnating fun here,
but also toward a goal of stabilizing its own existence. —P.J.L.

1973

Thursday, October 18,

 

Yes, I’m positive ...I want my Calyx senior informal
portrait taken in the sauna.

RS TO THE ED

On closed EC sessions under explicit constitutional re-
quirements for executive sessions,

it would find itself bound to dis-
cuss, in public, matters which
elicit strict confidentiality. It is
because of this that the EC op-
poses a further delineation of re-
quirements for executive sessions.
Regarding the three executive
sessions held this year, no men-
tion of the disbursement or ap-
propriation of student funds has
been made. Nothing has been dis-
cussed concerning that which
would affect the welfare of the
student body as a whole. We be-
lieve it would be grossly irre-
The EC feels that delineation ‘“ponsible and highly intolerable
within the Student Body Consti- for this committee to do so be-
tution governing executive bind a closed door.
sions could quite possibly be de- Respectfully,
trimental to the interests of cer- Russ Fletcher, ‘74
tain individuals. Therefore, the Mike Luttig, '76
EC holds in strictest confidence
all matters concerning honor
violations or possible honor viola-
tions. The privilege to meet in
executive session is a part of our

To the Student Body:

The Executive Committee of
this university is the instrument
for the implementation of ideas,
and a “sounding board” for the
opinions held by students on this
campus. The EC maintains and
operates the Honor System and
concerns itself with such matters
as finance, committee representa-
tion, and entertainment. Our pur-
pose, in brief, is to be your
representative body. As students
vou have the choice of whom you
wish to serve in this capacity.

ses-

Editor’s note — We do not
question the calling of execu.
tive closed sessions of the EC
in regards to personal matters,

responsibility to you. We = ac- matters affecting individual
knowledge the possibility that students. We only ask that a

stipulation be made in the stu-
dent body constitution limiting
closed sessions to a discussion
of such individual matters.

matters, which cannot be specific-
ally delineated in a constitutional
provision, may arise, If this were
to occur, and if the EC were

HE RING-TUM PHI

The Ring-tum Phi is published on Thursdays during the college year.
It is printed by the Journalism Laboratory Press, Washington and Lee
University. The mailing address is Box 899, Lexington, Virginia 24450.
Entered as second class matter September 29, 1946, at the Post Office.
Lexington, Virginia 24450, under the act of March 3, 1879. Subscription
rates: $6.00 for the school year, $3.00 for the semester.

ANDREW J. A. CHRISS
Business Manager

PAUL J. LANCASTER
Editor-in-chief

Jess Reeves
Bil} Austin

Managing EGiior.......4.4.2..
eg ee ee
Thursday, October 18, 1973

THE RING-TUM PHI

Page 3

 

The Earl Scruggs Review.

Joy at the

Troubadour

By ROBERT HIBURN,
Los Angeles Times

(LOS ANGELES)
The group is, quite simply,
the most assured com-
bination of traditional and
country music
ideas that I’ve seen on the
Troubadour stage, a group
with far more range, authen-
ticity and joy in its music than
any of the many second-genera-
tion bands that proudly march
under the country-rock label.
The Earl Scruggs Revue isn’t
just another band, it is a tight-
ly disciplined, valuable cross
between some of the best of the
past and the present in country-
oriented music.

best,

contemporary

BEST BAND,

MAN FOR MAN

By JOHN WASSERMAN,
San Francisco Chronicle
(SAN FRANCISCO) I doubt
there is another band in any
form of American popular
music that is better, man for
man, than The Earl Scruges
Revue.

Scruggs Revue
Weeds Out Doubts
By CHET FLIPPO,

Rolling Stone

(SAN FRANCISCO) Any

doubts that Earl Scruggs could
successfully take his banjo
from one field to another are
laid to rest.

FOOT STOMPIN’ TIME

AT SCRUGGS REVUE

By RIC MANNING,

Sunday Herald-Times
(BLOOMINGTON) IE you

spent Saturday night at the

drive-in, watching the late

show on the tube or sopping

   

  

Earl Scruggs

xary Seruggs

up beer at your favorite pub,
you blew it.

For a mere pittance you
could have had a foot-stompin’
good time with Earl Scruggs
and the wildest band of pick-
ers and fiddlers you've ever
seen.

OBLITERATING A

PACKED HOUSE
ZOO WORLD

(FLORIDA) Earl Scruggs is
just the greatest banjo player
ever. It’s that plain and sim-

   

fee
Josh Graves

ple. His speed, touch, and tech-
nique are legendary, and you'd
think that after all these years,
he’d be content to leave it at
that. But the sprightly, slight-
ly balding gent positively re-
fuses to rest on any laurels and
is currently excavating new
ground with a myriad of varia-
tions on country, rock and folk
musics, even tossing in a token
boogie number for good luck.
‘We put this group together
right after the breakup with
Flatt,’ Earl recalled. ‘I find this
more exciting. In fact in this

 

 

The Student Activities Board

of Washington and Lee University
presents

The Earl Scruggs Review
tonight at 8 p.m.
Doremus Gym
Admission $5 at door.

 

 

 

    

Steve Scruggs

band I can’t stand out much
‘cause of all the talent around
me.’

Well, he sure as hell still
stands out simply because he’s
so great a figure as well as still
being a doozy of a banjo play-
er, but his Revue is damned
good.

Sopping But Enjoying It.
By STEVE LAWRENCE,

New York Post

(NEW YORK) A couple of
evenings ago Earl Scruggs cram-
med the Wollman Skating
Rink in Central Park with
fans and kept most of them
there, sopping wet under a
driving rain.

Earl Scruggs has that special
sort of self-confidence of a man
who’s changed directions far
along in his career and it’s
worked.

Homecoming Dance
The Impressions
Friday in Doremus
THE RING-TUM PHI

 

Scruggs sponsored,

funded by

By PAUL MORELLA

“The Student Activities Board
exists and appeals as an um-
brella organization. That is, a
group not steeped in power, but
rather in cooperation, compati-
oility, availability and assistance.
We are not and do not pretend
to be a group out to promote our
own interests. Rather, our chief
concern is others and it is that
essential philosophy that we hope
will pervade our visibility.”

So stated senior Mike Brittin,
chairman of the newly formed
Student Activities Board, in a re-
cent report to the Executive Com-
mittee on the goals and purposes
of SAB.

Accoring to Brittin, SAB is aim-
ing towards creating a sense of
community and an atmosphere
that encourages involvement
through the attainment of the
following two goals: SAB must
appear, visibly and earnestly, to
the student body as a “center for
the dissemination of ideas as well
as a task force dedicated to the
implication of those ideas,” and
SAB endeavors to “coordinate the
various campus activities, thereby
reducing the imbalance of sched-
uling and the problem of duplica-
tion of function.

“Thus, we stress variety,” Brit-

SAB

tin explained, “and mean to fol-

low up on nearly every sugg-
gestion — every one which is

plausible, physically and financi-
ally, and which seems to hold an
interest for a reasonable number
of students.”

Brittin went on to expound up-
on the decision making process of
the SAB as well as the control
of finances by each separate sub-
committee. A budget for each
sub-committee was set up _ last
vear and work now proceeds with
that financial regard. ‘Flexibility
is the key here,” Brittin stated,
“The SAB views the sharing of
funds to promote one large in-
terest as most plausible.”

For the 1973-74 school year, the
SAB has a number of activities
planned or being planned, as well
as many already accomplished.
Those already accomplished in-
clude: two art shows, Jerome Mac-
Murray, “Who Killed JFK?” spec-
ial, TGIT—happy hour, First
Tuesday, the Outing Club and a
host of films. Planned is the Earl
Scruggs Revue tonight, three band
eoncert (Tower of Power, Fred-
die King, El Roacho), Mark Twain
comedy—The Diary of Adam and
Eve, the National Shakespeare
Company—As You Like It, and a
Halloween film festival.

Film committee presents Ford flicks

By C. B. PETTY

The recent death of master
movie-maker John Ford leaves a
gap in the ranks of American
directors, a gap amply illustrated
by the John Ford Retrospective
film series which is now being
shown. Five of Ford’s more well-
known films are being presented
by the W&L film committee in a
festival designed to acquaint
film-goers with Ford’s achieve-
ments. Admission to all screenings
is free,

Ford is perhaps best noted as
the film director who turned the
so-called “horse opera” into an
art form and who made John

Wayne a star in the 1939 Stage-
coach, From his early days as a
prop

man on early silent film

 
   
     
   
    

EA a

 

121 W. Nelson

Need Extra Cash

STUDENT LOANS AVAILABLE
NO AGE RESTRICTION

PEOPLES Finance Service

OF LEXINGTON

lots until his death this year,
Ford shot 140 films, four of which
would win Oscars.

John Wayne comes to duPont
Auditorium Oct. 24, in Ford’s 1939
Stagecoach. The film, to be shown
at 7 p.m., stars the Duke as “the
Ringo Kid” in a simple parable
of the Old West.

The retrospective ends with the
Nov. 7 presentation of The Long
Voyage Home at 7 p.m. and Two
Rode Together at 9 p.m. in du-
Pont. The 1940 “Voyage” stars
Wayne in the pre-WWII story of
the odyssey of the S.S. Glencairn
on its trip to Britain. The 1961
Two Rode Together has been
called by critic Andrew Sarris the
best American Film of 1961.

Phone 463-3176

$

Thursday, October 18, 1973

 

me

Saturday’s March for Hunger from Lexington to Buena Vista netted

over $2,000 in aid to local relief programs.

—-Photo by Bill Robinson

Transcendental meditation
group meets on Monday

By GORDON GROVES

For 15 minutes of pure and
easy practice twice daily, I am
unfolding my full potential. Full
potential of mind. Full blooming
heart. And my Hfe keeps ex-
panding in love, and joy, and in-
telligence, always increasing in
terms of my own needs and as-
pirations.

Transcendental Meditation is
the supersmooth scientific techni-
que whereby the totality of life’s
rhythms and meanings are un-
covered, discovered.

TM is not hypnosis.

It is the spiritual asset needed
to re-open our previously closed
accounts with reality.

It is not ESP.

It is the simple and quick, psy-
chological method whereby the
perfect mental harmony is realiz-
ed.

It’s not a systematic intellect-
ual exercise. On the contrary, it
is so easy and effortless and re-
quires no concentration.

It is the most frugal and temp-
crate means of meditation where-
by the greatest spiritual and ma-
terial profits are realized.

TM is not a religion, or a life-
stvle, or a weirdism.

Transcendental Meditation,
practiced for a few minutes
morning and evening as one sits
with eves closed, relieves all the
stress, the strains, worries and
tensions of living in the material
world.

Some say it’s a song.

Across The Universe
Words are flowing out like
endless rain into a paper cup.
They slither while they pass, they
slip away across the Universe.
Pools of sorrow, waves of joy
Are drifting through my
open mind,
Possessing and caressing me
Jai Guru Deva Om
The first lecture on Transcen-
dental Meditation is Wednesday
at 8 p.m. in Room 114, University
Center.

 

tg

 

 

 

(=

SrURDEGN fi

Make this your headquarters for Good Food

and Service

We have meal tickets at savings to you

SOUTHERN INN

>

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
Thursday, October 18, 1973 THE RING-TUM PHI Page 5

 

Construction to begin immediately

New student housing approved

By JESS REEVES

Work will begin this week on
preparation of the site for on-
campus apartments to accom-
modate 178 students. The project
is expected to be completed and
ready for occupancy by next
september.

The complex will be located in
Woods Creek Valley between the
new Lewis Hall and the front
campus. The project will have
three buildings, two with 17 units
and one containing six units.

At present only 112 upperclass-
men and law students can be
accommodated in housing offered
ov the university. Nearly 1,000
students are forced to find living
quarters in Lexington or the
county. An administration survey
last year showed that in many
cases the housing rented to stu-
dents was substandard and _ stu-
lents wanted the university to
provide them an alternative.

The project has been designed
by Marcellus, Wright, Cox &
Cilimberg, the architects for the
concrete, glass and brick monster
Lewis Hall. The design calls for
a textured finish of rough weath-
ered wood to blend in, supposedly,
with the rustic, wooded site in
the valley.

Whether or not one finds the
design for the apartments at-
tractive the new project will fill
the student need for housing.
Seing down in the valley should
nide them from the view of those
who find their appearance object-

 

 

 

Urban Development was to pay
the interests rates on the loan
to build the complex while W&L
would have only paid the capital.

Unfortunately the government
required so many modifications to
the basic plan that the economic
Lenefits of accepting their aid Although the cost to the stu-
were negligible. Last February cent of living in the apartments
the Board of Trustees, at the sug- las not as vet been determined,
gestion of President Huntley, re- the rentals are expected to be
fused HUD’s assistance. competative with off-campus

The

now being financed through co-
operation with the Virginia Col-
lege Bond Authority. This newly
created state agency will arrange
lower interests rates by allowing
he school to borrow through
them and float bond issues.

 

AUSTRIA © FRANCE 1-week, per

person, dou-
ble, from
New York
or Nassau.
Add $98

new student housing is (Continued on page 8)

 

 

ionable. Let’s face it, student Q from Chica
housing need only be as _ inex- World ¢ Campus Afloat: Join Us! casir

pensive as possible and functional.

 

The apartments will be in Sails each September & February. Features round-trip jet to
three-, four- and five-man units This is the way you've always wanted mri gt a . “oA
providing single bedrooms for to learn . . . and should. Combine buhel, 2 meals daily, double

room ‘in chalet, Dec. 14 and
weekly in Jan. ‘Add $10 Feb.
and March. Also, 1-week ski
tours to Chamonix and 2
weeks to Kitzbuhel or Chamo-
nix. Lowest-cost ski tours to

every occupant. Each apartment
offers the residents a living room,
kitchen and dining area. The
units will all have one bathroom
with as many as three lavatories

accredited study with a fascinating
semester of travel to Africa, Austral-
asia, the Orient, and the Americas.
Over 8500 students from 450 colleges
have already participated, Financial

and one shower and_ porcelain aid is available, Write now for free Europe of any scheduled air-
altar 2 catalo line.

As an added bonus the apart-

iCA, Chapman College

nents will each have their own
balconies, Air-conditioning, furn-
ishings, and carpeting will come
with each suite. All utilities will
be covered in the monthly rent,
as vet undetermined, except for
telephone services.

The cost of construction is
$1.05 million. Furnishings and
fully equipped the building will

 

ox 1060, Grange, CA 92666

 

 

KEYDET-GENERAL

  

 

$250 Car or Rail Tour*

One week, per person, double,
features round- -trip jet from
New York to Luxembourg and
car with unlimited mileage—
or $260* unlimited rail travel
in 13 European countries for
singles. Add $98 from Chica-
go. Offered Nov. thru March.

SEE YOUR TRAVEL AGENT

All prices subject to change.

 

AND
MOTEL

Sematdey diracyy

RESTAURANT

Hruly

HA

7 IS

raise the total cost of the project
to about $1,391,500.

The expense of the complex has
been kept as low as possible by
engaging George W. Kane, Inc.
of Henderson, N.C. as the general
contractor. Kane is the principal

SS

To: ICELANDIC AIRLINES

(212) 757-8585

630 Fifth Ave., N.Y., N.Y. 10020
Outside N.Y. State: Toll Free
(800) 221-9760

Send folder CN on tours to Europe
from N.Y. 0, from Chicago O,
from Miami/ Nassau O,

(dary

ar] thre

   
  
  

 

Super Wy DP ¥sreteey vert
Pic Cures Atinesphere,
Server Pood ae the F

 

 

 

 

contractor of Lewis Hall. The Pane Peadttrorn ol Viper name
additional expense of bringing in fs Street
another crew was avoided in C *Bte? :
: omplete Facilities F cit
awarding the contract to Kane. P e cmines For a
Work on both projects will pro- 3 State Zip

ee Weddings & Receptions
POR RESERVATIONS, PHONE 105 2104 4

ceed simultaneously.
Early in the planning the uni-

 

y My Travel Agent is

I
versity intended to seek federal ie One Mele West of Le somtonmanw lS. 6 “e i) i ICELANDIC’
assistance for the project. The ae
Department of Housing and iid een Se ae
Page 6

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

By BILL AUSTIN
Sports Editor

Baseball’s magic is back. Ab-
solutely. Redskin lovers, Cowboy
die-hards, divert your bleary eyes
to the autumn spectacle that is
baseball’s way of determining a
World Champion.

In these final games, where a
ground ball sets off a crisis, and
a walk constitutes high drama,
the purest beauty of the sport
emerges. A single pitch can alter
an outcome, a mental error can
unravel an entire team’s unity.
There is, honestly, nothing that
quite matches this culmination of
summer-tediousness, this heroic
striving by baseball’s best teams
for alluring fame and _ riches,
championship fruits.

From the start of this year’s
play-offs, the unusual has _ be-
come the expected. After all, the
amazing Mets were one of the
four participating squads, and
their September antics had re-
vived memories of the 1969 sea-
son and its unbelievable glories.
Determined to crush this foolish-

FOR SALE
Several Relco treasure finders at
special prices. Call 463-3607.

: Paul’s Bike Shop

 

 

ness were the Cincinnati Reds, a
club which finally seemed equip-
ped with a fair share of pitch-
ing to complement its potent at-
tack: Pete Rose, Tony Perez,
Johnny Bench, Joe Morgan.
Evidently, the Met pitching
staff was unimpressed. The quar-
tet of Seaver, Matlack, Koosman
and Stone, so instrumental in the
September surge that produced a
19-8 won-lost record for the
month and division laurels at
82-79, taunted the Reds’ power
with a succession of finely pitch-
ed games. The playoff went to
the limit, but only Rose really
threatened—with bat and fist—
another New York miracle. His
home runs helped secure a pair
of one-run affairs (games one and
four); his punch-out with stick-
thin Bud Harrelson set off a
full-fledged brawl (high-lighted
by Red reliever Bourbon’s crazy
dash from bullpen safety to join
the fray), but his fists failed to
halt the drubbing of a 7-2 score.
It did give Shea Stadium fans a
chance to show their class and
sportsmanship, as they showered
the fuming Rose with trash and
beer bottles. Reds manager
Sparky Anderson piously deplor-
ed the crowd’s rowdiness—“I
didn’t think this could happen in
America.”—but the crimes of the
fans were no more shocking than
his own team’s failure to capture

 

 

 

 

®
°
°
* ;
@ ii N. New St., Staunton e “ -. SOT IOs, . .
e ° n the American League, di-
; Phone 886-1310 $ vision winners Baltimore and
e PAUL Now Accepting All 6
¢ BIKE REPAIRS at §
e . . .
° Sears’ Lexington Store $ Hamric and Sheridan
@ Pick-Up Every Wednesday ¢ JEWELERS
; Returned On Wednesday. . Watch and Jewelry Repair
@ Also —— 10 bsg nd Batavus ¢ | Hand Engraving & Class Rings
e vigils thee acscad ° 463-2022
COCO OOOO CODES OLOLEEE®
$40496000000000000000000000000000 0000000000 00008
%
+ . . we
: The First National Bank :
he . oo
* of Lexington %
‘ : *
& has special checking accounts for students %
a
4 Seleeioleleteleioiey Merherferferte

 

Dry Cleaning

Linen Service

WE DELIVER

UNIVERSITY
CLEANERS

Reliable Service In

Storage & Free Moth Proofing

Shirts Laundered

Clothing Repair

463-3622

Thursday, October 18, 1973

Met’s-A’s: Baseball’s magic is back

Oakland expected to battle on
even terms. The five-game strug-
gle fulfilled such anticipations,
won by Oakland when Jim Hunter
tossed a sly shutout, his second
victory of the series. Baltimore
matched the A’s in most compara-
tive analyses, but lacked power,
clearly evidenced when the Birds
batted Tommie Davis at clean-up
until Earl Williams exhibited a
hot bat. On the contrary, Oak-
land boasted the lineup of Rudi,

Bando, Jackson, Johnson and
Tenace, each hitter capable of

homerun explosiveness.

Surprisingly, the playoff’s ma-
jor figure was the A’s shortstop
with a .239 season average, Bert
Campaneris. He hit consistently,
batting over .300 for the five
games, and clubbed two rare
home runs. In addition, his base-
running prowess led Oakland’s
hustle for runs, a necessary tactic
since the long ball won only the
second game for the team, a 6-3
pounding keyed by four A’s
blasts.

A disappointment throughout
was Reggie Jackson, the league’s
prime candidate for MVP honors
in 1973. Sadly, his impressive sea-
son of proficiency (382 HRs, 17
RBIN’s a .293 B.A.) never sur-
faced in the series, as the club’s
star fought a nagging virus and
the remnants of several late-sea-
son injuries.

On paper, the World Series
would appear to be an Oakland
cake-walk. Admittedly, there
exists a weakness in the middle

of the defense: an aging Dick
Green plays second base, and 2
variety of centerfielders, none too
dependable, try to sub for regular
Bill North, a costly casualty in
mid-September play. Yet, in com-
parison to the Mets, minor wor-
ries would seem academic. In
many ways, this New York crew
is a second-division bunch.
There’s little speed, no bonified
long-ball threat, a porous outfield.

Somehow, New York refuses to
recognize its mediocrity. Thus,
this one-sided statistical show is
proving to be an evenly matched,
exciting confrontation. The rea-
son for this equality is not all due
to the Mets’ vast improvement
over a season of less than awe-
some achievement. Rather, Oak-
land appears converted to the
New Yorkers’ helter-skelter style
of play, especially in the field.
Sunday’s game, won by New York
in 12 innings, well illustrates this
point. The slick-fielding A’s com-
mitted five errors. In the disastr-
ous 12th, stone-gloved Mike
Andrews dazzled the hometown
fans with two filling miscues on
routine grounders. Te be sure,
Andrews was Dick Williams’ third
second sacked of the game, and
has never sparkled in the field,
as Boston and Chicago fans will
testify. Yet his errors were crucial
ones, game-losers.

Then there’s an inexplicable ele-
ment present in this affair, Met-
magic. It really exists. On that
same Sunday of the unusual,

(Continued on page 8)

FOR YOUR EXTRA PIECES OF FURNITURE

Varner & Pole

115 Main St. —

Lexington, Va.

© 6666666666

Washington and Lee University
Bookstore

ANTIQUES
MAGAZINE
New Shipment...

Plenty Available
Thursday, October 18, 1973

Macon outscores W&L, 34-26

One question many people on
campus asked last week was,
“Can Washington and Lee bounce
back from the trouncing admini-
stered by Hampden-Sidney?”

They proved Saturday that they
could.

Except they started their re-
bound one quarter too late.

Macon’s Yellow Jackets jumped
to a 21-0 first period lead and held
off the Generals’ fourth quarter
rally to win, 34-26, Saturday
afternoon in Ashland, Virginia.

W&L’s offense failed to gen-
erate an attack in the early
going, while the defense had its
hands full with Yellow Jacket
point-getters. Indeed, Randolph-
Macon totaled 347 yards for the
game, compared ot W&L’s 240.

After the initial stanza of
domination by Randolph-Macon,
one had to wonder if another
Hampden-Sydney debacle was
underway. It wasn’t.

The Generals looked as good as
they have all year in the second
quarter. The defense showed a
real toughness, while the offense
put everything together for the
first time in two weeks.

W&L’s 12 second quarter points
were the result of two long drives
engineered by quarterback Lewis
Powell. The senior signal-caller
completed 8 of 9 passes in the
period, good for 111 yards, and
connected on scoring strikes of
34 yards to Tony Perry, and 4
yards to Mark George.

The Powell to George TD cap-
ped a 70 yard drive which began
with 2:01 left in the half. Actu-

 

R/C Theatres
Regal Cinema Fare
in Lexington

State Theatre

12-14 W. Nelson St. 463-3424

NOW SHOWING

The Heartbreak
Kid
SUN.-MON.-TUE.

Sleuth

Lyric Cinema

135 S. Main St. 463-3543

NOW SHOWING

The Last
Picture Show

SUN.MON.-TUE.

Shaft in Africa

 

ally, less time than that was
available for the down-field
march, because the clock opera-
tor ran the clock twice when
timeouts had been called, wast-
ing 30 valuable seconds.
Randolph-Macon upped its lead
to 28-12 late in the third quarter
after Powell suffered his first
interception of the year. The
margin grew to 34-12 early in the
final period when the Yellow
Jackets managed a second theft.
Jack Berry replaced Powell at
quarterback, and promptly moved
the team 85 yards for a touch-

THE RING-TUM PHI

Page 7

 

down (Powell had _ started the
drive). Rob Lindsey scored from
the one, Powell returned and hit
George for the two-point conver-
sion, and the score stood at 34-20
with 3:27 left.

Then after Harry Smith pounc-
ed on a R-M fumble, Powell came
on to move the offense to still
another score. His two-yard boot-
leg with 1:27 remaining made it
34-26, as the following two-pointer
attempt failed.

But that was it.

Randolph-Macon ran out the
clock, as W&L ran out of time-

outs, and the game became his-
tory.

The loss evened W&L’s record
at 2-2, going into this Saturday’s
Homecoming contest with West-
ern Maryland.

Last year, on Western Mary-
land’s home turf, the Generals
fell 29-7, as Joe Brockmeyer gave
the W&L defense fits. However,
to the glee of all hoping for a
Homecoming triumph, he’s gone
now.

The game starts at 1:30 p.m. on
Wilson Field.

Soccer team splits 2 on road trip series

By MIKE McCOLLOCH
The Washington and _ Lee
varsity soccer team took to the
road last week for its first pair
of away games, losing to Johns
Hopkins 6-1, and then crushing
Lebanon Valley 9-0.

The loss to Hopkins on Wednes-
day was the first of the season
for the Generals. The lone W&L
goal was scored unassisted by Jim
Fox, with twenty minutes re-
maining in the second half. The
Hopkins’ players dominated
throughout the game, displaying

Wendell’s
Barber Shop

OPEN 9-6
9 South Jefferson

Closed Wednesday

 

 

East Lexington
Grocery

Beer — Ice — Gas
Party Supplies — Snacks
Open 7 days a week
ABC No. 2078—8 a.m.-10 p.m.
SHOP FOR SUNDAY
EVENING DINNER
We Sell & Deliver Kegs

 

 

 

TGIT

Celebration
Thursday in the
Cockpit

5-6 p.m.

better ball control and _ passing.
The Generals, who used a 1-1-4-4
formation, took only nine shots at
the goal, allowing Hopkins 23.

The following day the team em-
ployed a different formation, the
4-355, ana —touna it to be 6x-
tremely successful as they shut
out Lebanon Valley. John Galyon,
normally a fullback, played for-
ward and scored two goals, as did
Jim Fox. Other goals were scored
by co-captain Bill Spofford, John
Munkenback, Aly El-Tahry, John
Embree, and Kenyan foreign ex-
change student Harry Jembe. As-

  

There’s a place tor you on
Piedmont. For a weekend of
fun, a game out of town, a
quick trip home, whatever—
there’s a Piedmont jet or
propjet flight to fit your
plans. With personal,
thoughtful service always,
Piedmont—serving over 75
cities including Chicago,
New York, Washington,
Norfolk, Atlanta, Memphis.
Call us, or your travel agent.

Our twenty-fifth year

of service.

sists were made by Spofford, El-
Tahry, and Jembe.

Washington and Lee scored
eight of the goals in the first
half, when the 4-3-3 was used,
and only one in the second half,
when the team returned to the
1-1-4-4. The Generals took 23 shots
at the goal during the game, hold-
ing Lebanon Valley to only three.

This gives W&L with a 4-1
record overall, and 2-0 in the divi-
sion. This week the team has
two home games, against Roa-

noke and V.M.I.

 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   
 

 

 

Save Long Distance Calls — Free Reservations
Tickets Cost No More At

TRAVEL UNLIMITED

21 WEST WASHINGTON ST.

463-7174

 

 
Sex-craved W&L gentlemen ask—

Where has all the porno gone?

By TOM RITTENBURG
To the many porno fans at
'&L the return to Lexington
iis September proved to be some-
thing of a shock. The intrepid
ewers of such classics as ‘“Mid-
‘tht Plowboy” and “The Erotic
‘diventures of Zorro” were faced
‘th a fare of PGs and Oriental

,

Kung Fu films. The more _ de-
termined among these erotic

cinema fans were forced to play
“afonte Carlo” on treacherous
Route 501 to Lynchburg in order
see an X-1ated film.
The Phi, in its continuing policy
print stories akin to the in-
ests of the student body, has
mdertaken an investigation to

The World Series

(Continued from page 6)

‘lie Mays got his wish, con-
ibuting a clutch singie in the
2th that drove im the first of
fsur fimal imning runs. 1 his re-
ceemed the retiring star’s earlier
tunble in pursuit of a 9th inning
fy ball, a fall that enabled Oak-
jand to tie the score at 6-all. It’s
fust this kind of goat-to-hero
‘-amatics that makes this a spec-
time, whatever the outcome

f the vent. Play ball...

discover the reasons for the
absence of the X-rated film in
Lexington,

The problem began with the
obscenity ruling by the Supreme
Court. The ruling gave the power
to censor films to the _ local
authorities in a community. The
ruling created massive confusion
as it eradicated the existing legal
framework on film censorship. In
Virginia this led a strong reaction
in some areas against explicit
films.

Tn Lexington there has not yet
heen a decision on X-rated films.
It is commonly thought that this
is the best policy, one that can
be maintained through the ab-

NOTICES

The curriculum survey passed

out through the faculty on Mon- |

day did not reach all of the stu-
dents,

The deadline for turning in the
surveys has been extended to
Wednesday, Oct. 24.

Mick Jagger stars in “Perform-
ance,” to be shown Sat. and Sun.
at 7 and § 5m. in duPont Audi-
torium. Admission is one dollar.

No.1 on the

Index Librorum
Prohibitorum

Slithering like a cobra through the underbrush of American society
Is a book that no establishment or even ‘‘underground’’ publisher ot

reviewer will touch.

It ignites an auto-da-fé under the Torquemadas of the liberal-minor-
ity inquisition, while showing up modern conservatives as the worst
enemies of conservatism. It makes everybody look bad except the ‘bad
guys’’—the Wasps and other Majority members who have been on the
wrong end of the intellectual slugfest for these many years.

Imagine, if you can, a scholarly work that takes the Majority side
in the great ethnic debate, that discusses the unassimilable minorities
objectively, that goes into such forbidden subjects as the biology of
revolution, that finds the chief cause of America’s decline to be genetic.

Social science teachers don’t answer the book. They just start

screaming.

Why not order this time bomb and start it ticking under the desks of
the liberal fantasts, Freudian frumps, conservative psychos, and Marxist
and Marcusian madhatters that infest your classrooms?

You'll scare the dogma out of them.

You'll also undogmatize yourself, and acquire a new sense of pur-
pose, as you suddenly see your country, your history and your people in

a totally new light.

THE DISPOSSESSED MAJORITY by Wilmot Robertson
586 pages; Hardcover, $12; Softcover, $2.95
Howard Allen Enterprises
Box 76, Cape Canaveral, FL 32920

 

sence of any controversial movies.
Ralph Daves, the manager of the
State and Lyric theaters, said that
the general upheaval caused by
the court ruling and the uncer-
tainty of the community’s  re-
action have led to a moratorium
on X-rated films. Daves pointed
out that he has not been subject
to any pressure from local gover-
ment or religious leaders. Also,
strangely enough, Daves has yet
to receive a complaint from a stu-
dent about the absence of porno
flicks this year.

“Red” Patton, a city councilman
of Lexington corroborated Daves’
story. Patton stated that the issue
has not been raised, nor even

spoken of, in the Council. If there
were a film in town considered
too explicit, it would be the re.
sponsibility of the Common-
wealth’s Attorney, Eric Sisler, to
bring the film into court. The
decision on a film would be
rendered in a local court,

The chances are that Sisler
won't get his day in court. The
only X-rated movie slated for the
Lyric in the near future is the
cartoon ‘Heavy Traffic” (by the
makers of “Fritz the Cat’). Until
there is a change of community
opinion here, the road to Lynch-
burg lies open to carry the die-
hards to the silver screens of the
Twin Fort Drive-In.

 

No winners were declared in last Monday’s freshmen class elections.
tun-offs are being held today involving the top two vote getters

for each office. See story page 1,

—Photo by Charles Grubbs

Construction begins on upperclass housing

(Continued from page 5)
housing. Assuming the cost to the
individual is slightly over $700
a year, W&L’s apartments will
compare favorably with equival-
ent housing offered by other
schools.

The University of Delaware is
the only other school offering
student aparments with kitchens
and air-conditioning. However,
their units only have two _ bed-
rooms which are doubles. The
W&L Hilton will offer every oc-
cupant a single bedroom. Dela-
ware’s rental fee is $700 a year
for instate students, $800 for out-
of-state students. W&L will offer

the student a better deal than
that.
Of course, Washington and

apartments will be far
superior to those offered to the
Wahoos. The best C’ville can
boast is a student apartment with
five double bedrooms at $380 a
year. Hampshire College is Mass-

Lee's

achusetts offers apartments of
four single bedrooms with no
kitchen for $800 a vear. Again,
W&L leads the way.

On the whole, the university is
making a concerted effort to pro-
vide its students with superior
housing facilities. Whatever the
drawbacks of the project may be,
the value of the apartment com:
plex is certainly great and will
offer the student a viable al-
ternative. Students will be al
lowed to sign up for the new
housing in the Winter Term.

Ss O77 C2

A.E.D., the pre-medical frater-
nity, wishes to help those stu
dents encountering difficulty in
their studies of the sciences. Per-
desiring help in biology,
chemistry, math, etc., should con-
tact either Dr. James Starling
(fourth floor, New Science Build-
ing), or Keith Payne (463-3275).

sons
W&L protests Nixon firing of Cox

A student poll on impeachment,
a Republican Club resolution call-
ing for an investigation into the
possibility of impeachment, and
a flurry of petitions have high-
lighted anti-Nixon activities on
campus since his firing of Special
Watergate Prosecutor Archibald
Cox, and the resignation of At-
torney General Elliot Richardson
in protest of the firing Saturday
night.

Results were unavailable at
press time on the student poll.
Students were being asked
Whether an investigation into pos-
sible impeachment proceedings
should be initiated and _ also
whether actual impeachment
should be begun. Results of the

poll were to be sent to Congress.

Executive Committee officials
said the voting was running about
8-1 against Nixon. The poll is
being conducted by the EC. It
was not known what effect
Nixon’s decision Tuesday night to
release the tapes would have on
the outcome of the vote, or on
quelling the current rising tide
of sentiment against Nixon.

The Republican Club, by a 7-4
vote of its Executive Committee,
asked for an investigation in addi-
tion to asking the Republican
Party to disassociate itself from
unquestioned support for Nixon.

The resolution said Nixon’s fir-
ing of Cox “smacks of, though
possibly does not entirely indi-

cate, an allempt —to obstruct
justice The Administration
has followed a policy of further
erosion of personal, political, and
economic freedom.”

The EC has been distributing
petitions calling for investigation
into possible impeachment pro-
ceedings in conjunction with its
poH. The petitions will also be
sent to Congress.

The Law School was the first
tangible body within the Univer-
sity (tO set after tie ficing sf
Cox. By Monday, Larry Framme,
president of the Student Bar As-
sociation here, had circulated a
petition calling for an investiga-
tion and had garnished 145. sig-

natures out of the approximately
250 students in the school.

The Executive Committee Mon
day night resolved to write to
Congressional leader Carl Albert.
The letter was signed by six of
the 12 EC members, The EC
debated for nearly 45 minutes on
the wording of the letter and the
question of whether to use offic-
ial EC stationary.

Rumors of a possible student
strike were floating around cam.
pus ever since the Saturday
night firing of Cox. As of press
time, no definitive action had
been taken to formally strike,
Nixon’s decision to release the
tapes was a possible factor in
quelling the possibility of a strike,

THE RING-TUM PHI

Washington and Lee University’s Weekly Newspaper

 

Vol. LXXIII

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA, OCTOBER 25, 1973

Number 6

 

New constitution approved,
4 amendments defeated

By ROBERT PUGH

The proposed student body
constitution was approved by the
Washington and Lee student body
last week, 901-261. The new consti-
tution serves as a revision of the
old one, first incorporated in the
1940's.

The new constitution abolishes
the Dance Board and _ institutes
the Student Activities Board.

Another major provision of the
new constitution calls for a two-

thirds majority of all students
yoting to approve an amendment
to the constitution. Until now,

amendments needed majority ap-
proval of the entire student body
to be passed,

All four “controversial” amend-
ments to the proposed constitu-
tion were defeated. The totals

were: to allow exchange students
voting rights—690-417; to allow an
additional freshman representa-
tive on the Executive Committee
—720-380; to allow an additional
law school representative on the
EC—497-616; and to require a
minimum of three EC members
to call an executive session—687-
386. All amendments needed 802
votes—a majority of the student
body as required under the old
constitution—to pass.

Executive Committee members
indicated most of the amendment
proposals would be brought up
again next Spring under the new
constitution for a vote of the stu-
dents, this time requiring only a
two-thirds approval of those stu-
dents voting providing half of

(Continued on page 8)

Ross L. Malone, vice president

 

Dave Otey reaches for a Jack Berry pass in Saturday’s homecom-

ing loss to Western Maryland, See story page 7.

at Union Theological Seminary,

—Photo by Bill Robinson

Ross Malone appointed as trustee rector
a

 

and general counsel of General
Motors Corp., has been elected
rector of the board of trustees of
Washingon and Lee University.
He will assume the office form-
ally at the board’s winter meet-
ing in January.

The traditional title ‘rector’ is
the equivalent at Washington and
Lee to chairman of the board.
The term is traced back to the
founding of Augusta Academy,
from which the university evolv-
ed, in 1749.

As rector, Malone succeeds Dr.
John Newton Thomas of Rich-
mond, Dr. Thomas, professor
emeritus of systematic theology

has been a Washington and Lee
trustee since 1938 and_ rector
since 1970. Dr. Thomas is 70, the

age for mandatory — retirement
from the Washington and Lee
board.

Malone is a former
of the American Bar

president
Association

(1958-59) and deputy attorney
general of the United States
(1952-53). He was named vice

president and general counsel! of

GM in 1967,
At 47, Malone was one of the
youngest men ever elected ABA

president. He is also past presi-
dent of the American Bar Founda-
tion, an arm of the ABA which

supports research in the practice
of law and _ administration of
justice. He is a fellow of the
American College of Trial Lawy-
ers and was a member of the
President’s Commission on Law
iunforcement and the Administra-
tion of Justice. Malone is a trus-
tee of Southern Methodist Unt-
versity,- the New York Law
Foundation, and the Southwest-
ern Legal Foundation.

He is a member of
Delta Kappa, honorary leader.
ship fraternity, and Sigma Nu,
social fraternity. He holds honor-
ary degrees from seven colleges
nd universities, including Wash.

Omicron

(Continued on page 8)
Page 2

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

 

louTLooK and REVIEW

Impeachment and Richard Nixon

Consider the following:
—Friday, as part of homecoming, a panel discussion was held in
Lee Chapel on the constitutional implications of impeachment.

—Last Saturday night in the television lounges of the student
center, most Washington and Lee students were stunned when CBS
announced that Special Watergate Proecutor Archibald Cox had been
fired. The stunned silence which took the room was shattered by a
near standing ovation upon the further revelation that Elliott Richard-
son had resigned from his post of Attorney General in protest of Cox’s
firing.

—The law school student body has sent a petition with 143
names on it to Speaker of the House Car] Albert, calling for an
investigation into possible impeachment proceedings.

—A poll was conducted Tuesday and Wednesday asking student
opinion on both the question of investigation into possible impeach-
ment proceedings and the question of impeachment itself.

—The Washington and Lee Republican Club, touted as the top
organization of tis kind in the country, has passed a resolution in
its Executive Committee, 7-4, calling for the disassociation of Richard
Milhous Nixon from the Republican Party.

—Petitions, telegrams, and other actions of written protest have
been circulating around this campus since Saturday night’s action by
Nixon.

—Movements have been started looking into the possibility of a
student strike probably next week to protest the firing of Cox and
support either investigation into or initiation of impeachment proceed-
ings against Nixon.

At the time of this writing, action has been so fast and furious
since Cox’s firing Saturday that the majority of the Washingon and
Lee community—as well as the majority of the nation—has been
whipped into a verbal frenzy as to what should be done to de-power
the most powerful person on earth,

The government is in a mess. That may be the grossest under-
statement ever made, but there is simply no other way to describe it.

Why is this so? Because the man whose job it is to keep the
government running smoothly can no longer perform the one task
that was “mandated” to him in 1972. He can no longer govern.

The question is no longer one of getting Mr. Nixon out of the
White House because of what he can do, though, granted, what he
has done has put this country into a slimy pit of chaos and uncer-
tainty. Rather, the question is one of forcing Richard Milhous Nixon
out of the White House because of what he can’t do. And the one
thing he can no longer do is govern effectively.

Look at the President’s situation now. His popularity is at its
lowest point since he was elected, according to reliable polls. He has
certainly lost the full trust of many Senators and Congressmen. His
stature abroad has surely diminished, if not plummeted.

What will be done in the following months (or possibly days)
is certainly difficult to foresee. Impeachment is still a harsh word in
the House of Representatives. And even if an investigation into
possible impeachment proceedings is instigated, there is still a strong
bloc of Congressmen and Senators which could stop the initiation of
impeachment proceedings in the House or vote to clear the President
in the Senate.

Of course, there remains the problem of the successor to the
President, should Nixon leave office. There is no Vice-President;
Gerald Ford is nominated, but circumstances surrounding the entire
administration have blocked his immediate approval. Car] Albert, as
Speaker of the House, currently stands next in line for the presidency.
A changing of the White House guard from Republican to Democrat
is certainly a consideration here.

The proposal of Morris K. Udall of Arizona is another considera-
tion to be brought up for discussion by Congress, Udall proposes that
Gerald Ford be approved as Vice-President more or less in exchange
for Nixon’s resignation. However, it smacks of a compromise, and
that, after all, was what started this latest mess.

Resignation? Possibly the best course of action, but you might
have a little trouble convincing our President of the merits of that
possibility. The move would be certain to save everyone a lot of
problems, while posing a few more, but it is highly unlikely.

No matter how it is done, however, Richard Milhous Nixon must
be removed from office. It may be he who suffers the most in the
end, but it is the American people who suffer now. Until Nixon leaves,
the government, or at least the Execuitve Branch, of the United
States, will remain inoperative.

—P.J.L.

Thursday, October 25, 1973

 

Spiro Agnew... Why is this man smiling?

Ask Traveler

Q.—How does one cope with A hour?

A—By first shrugging off the idea that you, as a professional student,
have the responsibility for coping with anything that early in
the day. Of course, to ignore A hour altogether is the obvious
solution. But being obvious only works if you’re Lance Rentzel
or Milton Berle. In this soft world of the ivy halls, one must be
cunning to make it pay.

Your objective in A hour should be to get out of it as soon
as possible—even before roll is called. Spilling scalding hot Co-op
coffee (cleverly cooled the night before on a window sill) on
your pants is the best bet for making effective and rapid exit
from class; remember to keep shouting ‘infirmary’ or ‘student
insurance plan’ all the way to the door for that realistic touch.

Another good ruse involves having a friend deliver a fake
message to you in the middle of class that reports your hometown
to have just caved in and urgently requests your presence there
before the Luray Caverns claim your dinning room place setting
for their new concession stand. A third ploy that can be used
effectively is pasting a B-parking decal on your forehead and
having the university proctor tow you out of class for illegal
loitering. It’s the imaginative touch that makes those get-away-
acts convincing. Those easy days of having an ecstatic religious
experience under your desk are, alas, gone forever,

If your creative talents refuse to function that early in the
morning and you are forced to sweat it out, don’t despair, There
are Ways to make things tolerable. First of all, remember your

(Continued on page 8)

THE RING-TUM PHI

The Ring-tum Phi is published on Thursdays during the college year.
It is printed by the Journalism Laboratory Press, Washington and Lee
University. The mailing address is Box 899, Lexington, Virginia 24450.
Entered as second class matter September 29, 1946, at the Post Office,
Lexington, Virginia 24450, under the act of March 3, 1879. Subscription
rates: $6.00 for the school year, $3.00 for the semester.

PAUL J. LANCASTER
Editor-in-chief

ANDREW J. A. CHRISS
Business Manager

PO NE oes 0 5 ia ie ce Jess Reeves
WU NE hk tdeess ine csecis ee Bill Austin
OD NE og icv cesetiis ce chi Bill Robinson
ey MO sg so oi bce Palmer Trice, Robert Gurnee
II 5 oo soe cares ceysistesssisice Go David Lee
a 2 ee re Dave Finnell, John Killpack, Chuck Alt
RON oo occ ce is Tim Moore, Steve Yevich, Tom Rittenburg,

Rome Scott, Vance Marlowe, Bill Flesher, Paul Morella
Thursday, October 25, 1973

Concert Concerns

Dear Sir,

The problems of concerts at
W&L are certainly no _ longer
news. Laying out the problems
involved, though, will hopefully
bring to light for all concerned
the nature of those problems and
some possible solutions, which I
hope this letter will help to do.

In my four years as a student
at W&L, (yes, I did my time), I
saw many changes in the concert
situation at this school. Most of
the changes were good, but by
no means all of them. Now, as
a person who works and lives in
Lexington and hangs out a good
bit around W&L, I hope the “fish
out of water’ perspective I am
moving towards can help some of
vou who are still tied (up?) into
the school scene on a full-time
basis to see where its shortcom-
ings lie.

In the past, the problem was
usually that of getting good-qual-
itv musical groups to come here
at all because of lack of money.
With the institution of the Stu-
dent Activities Board this year
and the help of the EC this prob-
lem has been partially overcome.
We can now afford good groups
to a limited extent. If Earl Sruggs
isn’t first class, I don’t know
what is.

So here is/was the catch: we
could only afford Scruggs for a
weeknight concert. Cost differ-
ences between during-the-week
and weekend bokings are more
than negligible, and in some cases
are as high as 150 percent. Even
though funding for concerts is
substantially higher this year
than in the past, it is still limit-
ed, and a weeknight booking
seemed prudent to better insure
more concerts later in the year.

By now you may be asking
exactly what the problem is. In
a word, it is schoolwork. I do
not mean to construct any con-
cept of blame, guilt, or other
moralistic trapping, or to put it
upon any one group of people
such as the faculty for this situa-
tion. It was a combination of
circumstances which to my
knowledge had never before come
to pass at W&L: mid-terms,
homecoming, and a concert all
happening simultaneously.

My greatest hope in composing
this letter is that a similar situa-
tion can be avoided in the future.
My suggestion is that the faculty
could help us on the S.A.B. and
the entire student body by mov-
ing big work load deadlines
(such as tests and_ papers)

forward or back a day or two
if/when another weeknight con-
cert happens.

What we are trying to give the
faculty, and students, in return
will take a bit longer to appreci-
ate, for it is a change in student
attitude about school in general.
The help the S.A.B. needs from
the faculty in the manner I de-
scribed above is much more im-
medite, we hope only for this
school year.

If the S.A.B. can make first-rate
quality concerts a_ financially
feasible operation at W&L this
year, we can do it every year. We
would like to do that, but we
have not yet succeeded. The losses
from the Scruggs concert have
vet to be fully perceived, but
the year is still young.

My idea is that if the student
body is presented with a diverse
assortment of good concerts and
other activities during any given
school year, then the students will
be more responsive to their aca-
demic courses. The extracurricu-
lar events provided for the stu-
dents will serve to augment con-
ventional methods of expanding
consciousness through going to
classes. Learning is not all from
books. High quality occasional
alternatives to “grinding” will
make students more responsive
to the knowledge they encounter
in school.

Many people I spoke with last
week were unable to attend the
concert because of school work.
With concerts happening here at
the rate of four or five a year,
this is a lamentable situation.

It is also easily avoidable, if we
all give a little. There is much
for everyone to gain.

As the old saying goes, all work
and no play makes Jack a dull
boy. For sure, all play and no
work would do the same. I feel
there is a balance to be found.

We should not be afraid to
search for it. Profs, could we
have a little help?

This is a game where we can
all be winners.

W. Patrick Hinely
Class of 1973

Editor’s Note: The Student Acti-
vities Board will have to be
looking more to the promoter
it contracted to bring in name
concerts after losing $3500 on
the Scruggs deal. But then, if
the S.A.B. lost that much, the
promoter might be wary about
bringing in name concerts while
trying to garnish a profit on
the whole deal.

 

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

 

By ROME SCOTT

Of all the possible “Once upon
a time” stories, the situation in
the ivory tower called “the Hill”
fits most precisely.

The make-believe “I want”
passes through many mouths but
little action direct or indirect is
taken by the majority.

For years the Dance Board was
a scapegoat for the student body’s
complaints about the quality or
lack of concerts on the hill and,
even after a significant change
in the acting body’s format and
the creation of the Student Activi-
ties Board, the result is the same.

And no matter how many times
the way concerts are handled
is changed the result will be the
same unless the student body is
willing to support the effort of
the group in charge.

The lack of top name groups at
Washington and Lee is directly
reflective of the student body’s
apathetic, or simply pathetic, at-
titude towards the University as
a whole.

The feeling that everything
should be presented to the stu-
dent body on the proverbial plat-
ter has got to change or not only
will that platter be empty but the
danger of losing the platter al-

Book Beat

Inside-Out

 

together will become more than
the currently imminent.

Recent efforts to bring any kind
of musical entertainment to the
campus are to be lauded simply
because they exist.

Those who shout “if we had
better concerts we’d go” need pull
the situation together. Not only
will there be lower quality con-
certs in the future if the student
body doesn’t back up the Enter-
tainment Committee of the Stu-
dent Activities Board, but there is
a good possibility that there will
be none at all—of any quality.

a a a

Homecoming Weekend was not
as successful as it could’ve been
The Scruggs Revue concert was
poorly attended for several rea-
sons, the most vocalized of which
was that it was held on a week-
night during mid-terms.

Friday night’s Impression’s
dance seemed to be better-attend-
ed but even then the improvemnt
was not enough.

The upcoming Tower of Power
concert should be a good one. At
least, it will give the student body
a chance for a good time—at
most, it will give the student body
a chance to prove it is interested
in having concerts,

Come winter anything is possible

By ROME SCOTT

COME WINTER by Evan Hunter
(Doubleday, $5.95).

Peter, David and Sandy had
been friends forever, or so it
seemed. They were inseparable
and Peter reveled in it. His psy-
chiatrist abhorred it. Dr. Kra-
kouer advised—no, begged—him
not to go to Semanee Peak with
David and Sandy, but off he went.

A skiing holiday, that is all the
outing was meant to be, and
yet, it turned out to be much
more.

A shattered leg, a question of
why and a girl’s untimely death
at the bottom of a cliff, all go to
create an adventure that is a
lesson in group psychology. Evan
Hunter’s book is this plus.

Couched as easily among new-
born, vibrant metaphor as_ the
ski lodge at Semanee is among
rolling, snow-covered hills, the
story unfolds so naturally it lulls
the reader hypnotically, unsus-
pectingly along until he is so in-
volved in the plot he has virtu-

Halloween festival of films on Wednesday

The Student Activities Board
Film Committee brings “Johnny
Got His Gun” to Washington and
Lee this weekend and brings a
Halloween festival of five films
to the Cockpit next Wednesday.

“Johnny Got His Gun” will be
presented Saturday and Sunday
at 7 and 9 p.m. Admission is $1.

The story centers around a World
War I soldier who survives a
bomb blast with little more than
his mind and trunk left intact.

The Halloween film festival in
the Cockpit will feature reduced
prices on beer from 9 to 11 p.m.
The movies, for which there is

no admission charge, will be
shown from 9 p.m. to 3 a.m,

Movies scheduled for the festi-
val include: “Creature from the
Black Lagoon,” “Frankenstein
Meets the Wolfman,” “The Wolf-
man,” “Dracula,” and “The Phan-
tom of the Opera.”

ally no chance of escaping un-
scathered.

The reader’ suffers  Peter’s
doubts as he describes the action
and tries to place value judge-
ments on his behavior in terms
of Dr. Krakauer’s belief that the
relationship between the trio
gives them a sense of omipotence
tantamount to that of Ruskolni-
koff’s in Dostoevski’s “Crime and
Punishment.”

Peter ultimately dismisses his
doubts through his determination
to make the most of the snow.
Then it happens.

Mary Margaret Buono appears
and antagonizes the three without
realizing how dangerous her
action is.

Skiing the north face of Sema-
nee with them, she stops, reaches
out to pick up her glove, and is
lost to eternity.

A victim of the deadly trio?
Come winter, anything is possible.
For any reason.

NOTICE

FOREIGN STUDY

The Foreign Study Committee
will present its annual “informa-
tion session” about possibilities of
study abroad Oct. 29 at 7 p.m.

Both Washington and Lee pro-
grams and programs of other col-
leges will be discussed. Six-week,
one-term and two-term programs
will be outlined in the session.

W&L currently offers study
abroad programs to England,
France, Spain, West Germany,

East Africa, Italy, and Japan.
 

     

THE RING-TUM PHI

Thursday, October 25, 1973

Dr. J. K. Shillington crowns the 1973 W&L Homec nming Queen, representing Lambda Chi Alpha, Mem-
hers of the court flanking the queen represented SABU and Zeta Beta Tau, —Photo by Bill Robinson

Petters To The Sditor...

On faculty references

Dear Sir:

Last vear I found myself writ-
ing more than 200 letters of
recommendation for Washington
and Lee seniors wanting to go
to Law School or into graduate
studies. From the requests I have
already received, it seems a pretty
fair guess that this will be
another busy vear. That is as it
should be, for that goes with the
job. Moreover, I enjoy lending a
hand where I can. Still, some
ground rules apply.

In fairness to myself and to
others, I will write only three
Jetters for each applicant. When
requesting such letters, please
enclose such data as class stand-
ing, grade point average, Campus
activities and other material
which can help build a case. Also
send law board scores.

Be realistic. Unless you have
better than a 3.0 average, do not
apply to Yale, Harvard, Univer-
sity of Virginia, Michigan. If you
have exceptionally high law
boards, then, perhaps, you can
be an exception to this rule, but
the board scores must be very
high, indeed. Have some back up
school in mind. There are 90

5
a

 

eae

accredited law schools in the
United States. To make Law Re-
view in Kansas is better than
being anchor man at Stanford.
There is also something to be
said for going to the law school
of your home state, particularly
if vou have politics in mind (and
many of you do!). In the best
law schools there is no such
things as pull or influence, but in
some of the others it still works
(still in my mind is the student
for whom I wrote 11 letters and
who finally landed on his feet as
a result of a telephone call). Be
realistic about this, too.

Airmail letters from Austria
cost about 40 cents. I cannot use
American stamps. You cannot,
without a good deal of trouble,
send money. Take it easy on a
professor who is on half salary in
a country with high rate of in-
flation and a weak dollar. If you
want to be kind, send unattached
stamps which I can use next year.

Now, having set forth these
three points, let me throw in some
personal advice, not in any way
guaranteed to be correct, but at
least stemming from long held
beliefs. I am the fourth straight
generation of University profes-
sors, and while that may produce

 

Need Extra Cash

STUDENT LOANS AVAILABLE
NO AGE RESTRICTION

PEOPLES Finance Service

‘ OF LEXINGTON

121 W. Nelson

 

Phone 463-3176

$

  

genetic damage, it does have the
advantage of learning from the
mistakes of others. For instance,
do you really want to go to law
school? The American Bar As-
sociation estimated last year that
by 1976 there would be 17% too
many lawyers and the enactment
of no-fault insurance laws may
just bring this about. As for
graduate studies, look over the
recent Carnegie Report on
Higher Education and see what
the half life of an English teacher
is or will be. I am not saying
don’t go. If teaching or practic-
ing law is what you know you
want to do, then by all means
go to it. We'll rally around the
flag and push and shove as much
as we can. But if you just aren’t
sure what you want to do (ex-
cept you want to take your hands
out of daddy’s pockets), then why
not just get a job, and while you
work, think things over. Better a
correct decision a year late, than
an early start in the wrong di-
rection.

All good luck,

Milton Colvin,

Professor of Politics

Black rap

By JOHNNY E. MORRISON
The Greatest Story Ever Told
Day: Mr. Night, what make the
American people so gullible?
Night: Well, it goes all the way
back to what some call the
American Dream. America
thinks itself predicated on love,
compassion, good will, under-
standing, trust, liberty and law
and order. What they fail to
realize is that their nation is

composed of Dreamers.

Day: Why can’t the American
people change this?

Night: Because they entrusted all
of their rights and power in
the hand of one man in return
for security. This man turned
out to be a politician and not
a statesman.

Day: Are you inferring that power
corrupts and absolute power
corrupts absolutely?

Night: In a way yes and in
way no. I say no because this
politician is only doing what
the American people thought
they wanted him to do, Now
they see how big a mistake
they made.

Day: I assume that you are talk-
ing about a social contract.

Night: You are exactly right. Dur-
ing the sixties, America was
insecure because the silent mi-
nority started voicing their
opinions.

Day: The silent minority!

Night: Yes! I am talking about
the Blacks, the students, the
open-minded professors, the
convicts and the economically
insecure,

Day: I would call this the silent
majority.

Night: Well, I would to but the
new King prefers the latest
definition.

Day: So America will never be
able to redeem herself again
and be what so many people
think she is.

Night: Not really. A new tide is
on the ocean and is sweeping
all the dreams away to make
room for realities.

Day: I have to go now. What is
your real name?

Night: Call me Cox Richardson,
What is your name?

Yay: They call me If Your Vote
Was Wrong, It Is Your Fault.

 

 

 

 

(p=

STUDENTS!

Make this your headquarters for Good Food

and Service

We have meal tickets at savings to you

SOUTHERN INN

>

 

 

 
Thursday, October 25, 1973

Another Lewis Hall?

Librar

Planning for the new  under-
graduate library to be located di-
rectly behind Washington Hall
is now in the last stages of de-
velopment. A general design and
lay-out by Marcellus Wright and
Partners of Richmond have been
accepted by the Board of Trus-
tees. The architects are now
drawing up the final set of plans
which will be offered for bids.

The cost of the project will be
$5,250,000. This figure includes the
cost of construction and _ the
architects’ fee. Additional costs
for the building will come to sev-
eral million. To build on the pres-
sent site will require the reloca-
tion of the utilities nexus ($650,-
000) and extensive site develop-
ment (about $750,000). Another
$600,000-$700,000 must be spent to
equip the new facility.

The total costs for the library
will be approximately the same
as that of Lewis Hall. Although
the proposed undergraduate _li-
brary will be a simpler building
than the law school, the site on
which it will be built is going to
require more preparation.

Plans for the construction are
being pushed ahead as rapidly as
possible, while inflation makes
every delay expensive. The money
to build the new facility has not
yet been raised. Hopefully enough
of the sum needed will be
available by next summer so that
the architects’ plans can be offer-
ed for bids.

The working drawings for the
builders should be completed by
the middle of next summer. Bids
will be accepted in the late sum-
mer and a firm will be awarded
the contract before the beginning
of the Fall Term. The total build-
ing time should be two years.

The first set of plans was pre-
sented to the Board of Trustees
for approval in June, 1972. The
trustees sent the architects back
to the drawing board, finding
their proposals unacceptable.
‘hese plans contained a three
story building which was _ rec-
tangular in shape.

The trustees objected to the
bulk of the building and its pro-
vision for space which could not
be filled immediately. The original
facility would have provided a
good deal of space to be grown
into in the future.

The architects returned with a
revised set of plans in June, 1973.
Their plans were accepted at this
time for a smaller building which,
supposedly, would fit in better
with its neighbors in the Wash-
ington group.

The Richmond firm was given
a list of facilities which should
be included in the new building.
With these requirement in mind
Marcellus Wright, Cox and Cilim-
berg were able to draw lay-outs
for the interior. Among the re-
quirements handed to the archi-
tects were:

—space 500,000

for volumes

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

plans near completion

 

This model of the proposed new library is currently on display in McCormick Library

(the present library houses half
that number).

—s00 reader stations of which
at least 560 will be carrels. Study
rooms for two to four students
are also to be provided.

—2 or 3 seminar rooms with
room for about fifteen people.
These will not be used for regu-
larly scheduled classes.

—an auditorium to hold 100.
This room is intended to be a
cultural center for the Univer-
sity. It will be used for special
speakers, films, and any other
type of presentation for a rela-
tively small group.

—a Rare Book Room to house
the school’s special collections.

—study rooms for smokers.

The present design calls for a
building of five stories to be built
on the site of the Washington
Annexes. Only one of these floors
will be readily visible from the
front. The other levels will ex-
tend downward into the ravine.

The new library will be built
on the modular principle. A 27’
module will be employed because
it can contain library equipment,
aisles and stack ranges with com-
parative ease.

The design for the exterior of
the building was determined after
the requirements for the interior
had been incorporated in a set
of plans. The Richmond architects
made an attempt to fashion a
facility which would blend in
well with the Washington group.
One way in which this was to
be accomplished was the use of
similar materials, colors and lines.

It is true that the building will
be of brick with areas of white.
However, it has been said that
the new library may have more
in common with a multi-story
parking lot than with Washing-
ton Hall.

The Richmond firm whose
ideas will take form in three new
buildings on campus seems to be

stuck in something of a rut. The
library and Lewis Hall are very
much alike in appearance. Both
are brick and concrete with many
square projections.

In the library these projections
will take the form of brick bays
extending at fairly regular in-
tervals around much of the build-
ing. A difference can be seen in
the use of concrete in the two
structures: Lewis Hall will show
more of it.

Both facilities will have some
kind of walkway or bridge lead-
ing to the main entrance. On the
library this modern form of draw-
bridge will connect with the new
brick mall which is to run from
the science buildings to the old
library.

All things considered the plans
for the new undergraduate library
reveal a building which is built
for comfort and is quite func-
tional. The interior may satisfy
the need for more library space
very well. However, from the
look of things to come the ex-

   
  
  
  

*

Ng itrey f

Key if
: Se

KEYDET-GENERAL
RESTAURANT

fruly Clie ofp the Sends Paes

Superb Dining ta
Pieturesque Atmosphere,
Serving Pood ae the

Pre Uraddvon ol Virveria,

Complete Facilities For

| Banquets, Weddings & Receptions
(i) POR RESERVATIONS, PHONE
‘ Orie Mile West off exaiphoman US. O60

a...

—Photo by Bill Robinson

terior does not fulfill its function
of fitting in with the campus.

It would seem that the use of
the same materials and colors
will not be enough to unify the
new and old elements of the
campus placed so close together.
The trustees improved upon the
architects’ design once. One can
only wish that the Board had
pushed them one step further
and thus avoided the possibility
of a modified Lewis Hall in back
of a National Historic Landmark.

NOTICES
ATTENTION SENIORS
Degree applications, which can
be obtained from the Registrar,
are due November 1. Come early

and avoid the rush.
* * *

CULTURE COMMITTEE
Anyone interested in working
on the Culture Committee of the
Student Activities Board should
leave his or her name and address
and phone number in the $.A.B.
box in the Student Center.

  
 

AND
MOTEL

Ha} 2E43

 
Jace
Page 6

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

Booters defeat

VMI, Roanoke

By MIKE McCOLLOCH

The Washington and Lee vars-
ity soccer team defeated two more
teams last week on their home
field, crushing Roanoke 5-0, and
V.M.I. 7-1.

The Tuesday match against
Roanoke demonstrated the Gen-
rising improvement’ in

nwork. Playing in an unusu-
ally strong wind, the team dis-
piaved the best passing in a game
so far this season. Twenty min-
utes into the game, co-captain
Bill Spofford scored the first goal
unassisted. Two more goals, both
unassisted, were scored in the
first half by Jim Fox, the team’s
leading scorer. In the second half
John Embree scored a goal from
an assist by John Galyon, and
Galyon then made the final score
from an assist by Harry Jembe.
The Generals made a total of
19 shots at the goal, while Roa-
noke took 16. This was the fourth
shutout of the season for W&L.

Saturday, an exceptional per-
formance by the front line helped
spur the team on to the 7-1 vic-

(Continued on page 7)

erals’

FOR SALE

Several Relco treasure finders at
special prices. Call 463-3607.

Paul’s Bike Shop

11 N. New St., Staunton
Phone 886-1310
PAUL Now Accepting All
BIKE REPAIRS at
Sears’ Lexington Store

Pick-Up Every Wednesday
Returned On Wednesday.
Also New 10 Speeds Batavus
Bikes For Sale.

oe
%

deb tetetet tees

Thursday, October 25, 1973

 

ee

DPE oe POCO Pe ae Oo

It wasn’t quite “Deliverance,” but ten men from Washington and Lee met plenty of white water in a
two-day raft trip down the Maury and James Rivers, The trip was sponsored by W&L Reserve Officers

Training Corps program, part of its series of adventure training events,

Cross-country team strengthens record

Washington and Lee’s cross-
country team had moved its rec-
ord up to 7-4 at last report, run-
ning to prepare for the Virginia
College Athletic Association
championships scheduled early
next month,

The Generals in the past two

 

Hamric and Sheridan
JEWELERS
Watch and Jewelry Repair
Hand Engraving & Class Rings
463-2022

 

 

 

seotststetestesteteoentsteste fete oe oeoeobsteteobentnfntnteteteteobofetesteoboeobbofeteteteteoe stots

The First National Bank :

of Lexington :
has special checking accounts for students 3

be oeebebeeoeletetntntntooetetentofesteoeoeoetenfefodedetetetetetetoetestetetetetetboede

Dry Cleaning

Linen Service

WE DELIVER

UNIVERSITY
CLEANERS

Reliable Service In

Storage & Free Moth Proofing

Shirts Laundered
Clothing Repair

463-3622

weeks have dumbed Davidson,
27-28, Lynchburg, 23-38, Christo-
pher-Newport, 20-39, and Virginia
Wesleyan, 15-50. They fell to
Bridgewater, 32-23, without the
services of top runner Jim Mc-
Menamin. Mike Burns and Tem

Washington were W&L’s top run-

ners in that meet, tying for third

place with a time of 26:56 over
Bridgewater’s five-mile course.

The Generals have also lost to
VMI, 31-24.

Tuesday, the Generals traveled
to Harrisonburg to face Madison
and Davis and Elkins. The re-
sults of the contest were not
known at press time.

115 Main St.

FOR YOUR EXTRA PIECES OF FURNITURE

Varner & Pole

— Lexington, Va.

Washingion and Lee University

#Bonkstore

ANTIQUES
MAGAZINE

New Shipment...
Plenty Available
Thursday,

October 2

. 1973

THE RING-TUM PHI

Page 7

 

Football Geiterals fall again;
Western Maryland romps, 35-17

By BILL FLESHER
Western Maryland’s Green Ter-
rors handed Washington and Lee

its third consecutive loss last
Saturday, running all over the
Generals en route to a 35-17

victory.

Please don’t interpret the term
“running all over” to infer that
the game was a rout. It wasn’t
at all.

It’s just that Western Maryland
ran. And ran. And ran.

The Green Terrors’ ground
game was paced by quarterback
Mike Bricker, who scored three
touchdowns, and by halfback
Kendrick Weaver, who came off
the bench to pick up 107 yards

Soccer team thrives

(Continued from page 6)
tory over V.M.I. Jim Fox scored
three goals, two of them unassist-
ed. The other W&L scorers were
John Embree, John Galyon, Chuck
Alexander, and freshman John
Munkenbeck. Assists were award-
ed to Munkenbeck, Bobby Craw-
ford, and co-captain Rolf Piranian.

The Generals dominated the
game, taking 23 shots at the goal
while allowing V.M.I. only seven.

The team’s
this point is 6-1,
sion record is now 4-0.
the Generals play
away.

overall record at
while the divi-
This week
Lynchburg

 

R/C Theatres
Regal Cinema Fare
in Lexington

State Theatre

12-14 W. Nelson St. 463-3424

WED. thru SAT.

One Little

Indian

and
Lady and
the Tramp
SUN.-MON.-TUE.

Tom Sawyer

Lyric Cinema

463-3543
Oct, 24-30

135 S. Main St.
WED. thru TUES.

Heavy Traffic

in 19 earries.
Overlooked in the defeat were

outstanding performances by
sophomore quarterback Jack
3erry and freshman tight end
Tony Perry.

Berry, who took over for the
injured Lewis Powell, went 23
for 42, good for 244 yards and
two touchdowns.

Perry had another outstanding
game, hauling in eight aerials

(seven in the first half) for 86
vards, including a five-yard touch-
down grab.

Berry’s other scoring toss was
a seven-yarder late in the game
to freshman Jay Monahan.

W&L was in the game the
entire first half. They fell be-
hind early after punter Doug

Chase couldn’t handle a snap, as
Western Maryland went 39 yards
in six plays, with Bricker going
the final five. Joe Baines’ con-
version made it 7-0.

The Generals closed the gap to
-3 on freshman

1 Ralph Moore’s
23 yard field goal, then went
ahead 9-7 early in the second
quarter after Steve DiBiagio

   
 

Wendell’s
Barber Shop

OPEN 9.6
9 South Jefferson

Closed Wednesday

 

East Lexington
Grocery

3eer — Ice — Gas
Party Supplies — Snacks
Open 7 days a week
ABC No. 2078—8 a.m.-10 p.m.
SHOP FOR SUNDAY
EVENING DINNER
We Sell & Deliver Kegs

 

 

 

 

TGIT

Celebration
Thursday in the
Cockpit

5-6 p.m.

  
    
 

blocked a punt, and
Perry for six.

This turned out to be the only
lead W&L held all day.

The Green Terrors took a 14-9
lead on the next drive, with
Bricker scoring his second touch-
down from one yard out.

They held that lead at half-
time, and then proceeded to take
command as the second half open-
ed.

Berry hit

tich Heritage took the _ kick-
off 57 yards to the W&L 26, and
seven plays later, Bricker hit

Quote of the week

The Ring-tum Phi, in its con-
stant search for words of wisdom
from persons in the know to the
Washington and Lee community,
has landed upon a veritable gold
mine of such wisdom. The gold
mine (who shall remain anonym-
ous) to which we refer was un-
covered deep in the murky cata-
combs of Doremus Gym. Our
initial quote of the week.

“How do you expect me to be
in two places at the same time
without a car?”

  

There’s a place tor you on
Piedmont. For a weekend of
fun, a game out of town, a
quick trip home, whatever—
there’s a Piedmont jet or
propjet flight to fit your
plans. With personal,
thoughtful service always.
Piedmont—serving over 75
cities including Chicago,
New York, Washington,
Norfolk, Atlanta, Memphis.
Call us, or your travel agent.

Our twenty-fifth year
of service,

Bob Anderson for a 13-yard scor-
ing strike—the only pass Bricker

completed all day. Barnes’ kick
made it 21-9.
Western Maryland upped its

lead to
when, after
a Berry

28-9 later in the quarter
Mark Gole picked off
pass, Bricker went 31
yards for his third score. The
conversion made it 28-9 at the
end of three.

The Green Terrors got their
final points after a pair of W&L
errors. First, Mark Dowd inter-
cepted a Berry pass and return-
ed it 67 yards to the W&L 25.
The Generals held there, forcing
WM to try for a field goal.

Jarnes’ attempt fell short and
into the hands of W&L defensive
back Louis McFadden.

And out of them.

Western Maryland recovered
the fumble, two players later
Mark Yurik scored from the one,
and the point after made it 35-9.

W&L added a touchdown on
the Berry-to-Monahan scoring
toss, an da two-pointer, but such

efforts were too late in coming.
The Generals take their hopes
(Continued on page 8)

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
    
   
 

 

Save Long Distance Calls — Free Reservations
Tickets Cost No More At

TRAVEL UNLIMITED

21 WEST WASHINGTON ST.

463-7174

 

 
Page 8 THE RING-TUM PHI

 

Ask Traveler: the A period class

(Continued from page 2)
rights as a student. Nowhere in the catalogue does it mention
having to look intelligent in class. If an A hour prof has the
gall to ask an annoying question or two in class, tell him straight-
out which end of an exam booklet to open first! There are some
sacred principles left, thank heavens, including sleeping through
class. Sack time is quickly extended by wearing those trick
glasses with the eyeballs painted right on them, Chances are
the teacher’s own pair of gag specs will result in neither one
of you catching a glimpse of the other all hour; the perfeci
solution.
Q—What if you are a bad actor or don’t have an imagination?
A—Simple. Don’t leave the coffee out all night.

gett

Your Happy Shopping Store

 

JEANS

Wrangler

Western cut straight
leg or flair leg.

Extra durable denim.

Sizes 29-42, 8.00
Levi’
evil S
Pre-shrunk straight
leg or regular
flare leg. Sizes
29-42. 8.98

Red Camel

bib overalls.
Sizes 32-48.

8.00

 

DOWNTOWN
LEXINGTON, VA.
463-3111

 

Thursday, October 25, 1973

Constitution

(Continued trom page 1)
the student body votes.

Newly elected freshman class
officers are EC—Scott Franklin,
UC—Ken Payne, President—Ken
Walters, and Vice President—
Sandy Stradtman. Newly-elected
law school EC rep Harriet Dorsey
is the first female member in
W&L’s history.

Cold Check Committee Chair-
man Ken McNulty reported at the

 

 

 

OPEN DAILY 9:30-5:30
FRIDAY NITE TILE = 8:30
SATURDAY 9:30-5:30

meeting that the committee is
financially independent and is up-
grading administrative proce-
dures. Every bad check situation
will be rectified by consultations
with the offender and (if neces-
sary) prosecution by the Student
Control Committee or the EC.
Repeated, deliberate offenders
will face a possible honor trial
with a penalty of expulsion.
Student Body President Doug
Schwartz announced that EC
members will meet with parents
during Parents’ Weekend. He al-
so read a letter from a company
which sells pre-written term
papers. The letter promised a
cessation of sales here at W&L.
Next week:
Report on Board of Trustees
meeting,
Deadline will be set for fresh.
man application to commit-
tees,

Yiscussion of lection procedures
and write-in campaigns,

Report on status of Courses antl
Degrees Proposal.

Set up ad hoc committees for
Dean Watt.

EC members will answer ques-
tions in the freshman dorms.

Ross Malone appointed

(Continued from page 1)
ington and Lee (1958), William
and Mary, and the University
of New Mexico and British Co-
lumbia.

Dr. Thomas, the retiring rector,
is a 1924 graduate of Washington
and Lee. He earned the PhD at
Edinburgh University (Scotland).
He is a former dean of the gradu-
ate school of Union Theolgical
Seminary as well as_ professor
emeritus.

In other trustee action Dr.
dgard ¥, Shannon, Jr, a 1939
graduate of Washington and Lee
University and retiring president
of the University of Virginia, has
been elected to the board of
trustees.

Shannon was nominated for the
trusteeship by a vote of his
fellow Wé&L alumni, and the
board confirmed his selection at
its autumn meeting last week on
the university campus. The an-
nouncement was made on Home:

coming and Alumni Reunion
Weekend.
Shannon, whose father was

professor of English at Wash-
ington and Lee from 1914 until
his death in 1938, was a Rhodes
Scholar,

Generals lose, 35-17

(Continued from page 7)
of breaking the three-game skid
to Sewanee, Tenn., this week, tak-
ing on the Tigers of the Univer-
sity of the South, better known as
Sewanee.

The two schools are intense
rivals, as has been shown by the
football and basketball games of
recent Years.

Last year, in Lexington, the
Generals prevailed, 35-25.

WLUR will carry the game live
this Saturday. Broadcast time is
245 p.m.
THE RING-TUM PHI

Washington and Lee University’s Weekly Newspaper

 

VOL. LAA

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA, NOVEMBER 1, 1973

Number 7

 

EC passes motion calling
for open faculty meeting

By ROBERT PUGH

University Council Senior rep
Ted Amshoff asked the EC to en-
dorse his proposal which would
open faculty meetings to interest-
ed students. The faculty would
<till go into executive session to
discuss private matters. The EC
approved in unanimously and en-
couraged students to discuss the
proposal with their teachers, The
proposal goes up before the Uni-
versity Council Thursday.

Freshmen interested in serving
on student committees should
place an application in the EC
Box by 6:30 Monday night. Posi-
tions will be filled on the Cold
Check, Curriculum, Mock Con-
vention, and Recruitment Com-
mittees. Interviews for the Cur-
riculum Committee are scheduled
for Monday at 8 and for the
other committees Tuesday at 6:30.

Student Body President Doug

Schwartz reported on the October
Board of Trustees meeting, which
he attended as an ex officio mem-
ber. He announced that a plan for
Fine Arts development will be
submitted by the EC at the

 

Registration for the Winter
Term will be held next week.
Students may pick up neces-
sary forms in the Registrar’s
office on the day on which
they are to register. Forms
should be taken to the stu-
dent’s faculty adviser for com-
pletion.

Registration dates are: Mon-
day — seniors; Tuesday —
juniors; Wednesday — sopho-
mores; Thursday — freshmen,

Check notices posted around
the campus for changes in the
catalogue for the Winter Term.

 

 

 

Students to run 24 hours
to benefit local United Way .

The “Do It Earle’ gang will

do its thing beginning Friday,
Nov. 9 at 4 p.m. and continuing

until 4 p.m. the next day. What

will they be doing? Running a
24-hour marathon relay race for

the benefit of the United Fund.

Nine members of the Washing-
ton and Lee cross-country team,
the gang, will alternate running
miles on the W&L track. Each
ian will run a mile to the
a baton after that mile to the
next miler, At all times during
the 24-hour relay, there will be
a runner carrying the baton for
the benefit of the United Way.

Participating in the marathon
will be Austin Ball, Mike Burns,
Walt Kelley, Jim McMenamin,
Doug McNeel, Ferris Mack, Fred
Reuning, Kirk Ruffin and Tem

Washington.

The gang is holding the mara-
thon relay asking students and
campus organizations to contri-
pute to the United Way. Ihe
fair: is -soping to run at icast
175 miles during the race, and
contributions can be made on a
per mile basis. If five cents a mile
is pledged, then $8.75 will be
raised for 175 miles, for example.

To help them “do it,” the gang
is asking anyone interested to
drop by at the W&L track during
the marathon and bring gatorade,
oranges, water, “or just plain en-
couragement.”

The pledge form on this page
may be filled out and returned to
Ken Lane’s office in the Univer-
sity Center.

Do It Earle!

 

Name:

Mailing
Address:
Phone

Money Per Mile

 

Pledge to UNITED FUND

 

 

Trustees January meeting.

Law School rep Tom King
complained about the informality
of mock election procedures. He
pointed out that candidates use
W&L results in their campaigns,
and consequently all steps should
be taken to ensure fair elections.
The EC urged that all elections
have due notice and a large voter
turnout.

After some discussion the EC
voted that all student office
candidates, write-in and official,
must comply with financial and
poster regulations. It also recom-
mended

that magazines once

again be sold in the Co-op,
Newly elected freshman rep
Scott Franklin suggested that

upperclassmen be reindoctrinated
about the Honor System. The pro-
cedure for doing this is under
consideration.

Sophomore Rowe Williams was
appointed co-chairman of the film
committee.

Next week:

—Freshman application for
committees due Monday at 6:30;

—Interviews held Monday at

8:00 (Curriculum Committee) and

Tuesdav at 6:30 (other commit-
tees):

—Charge card usage in the
Co-op;

—Alumni Weekend;

—Discussion of Fine Arts situa-
tion.

 

Saas
Freddie King will perform im
Doremus Gym rRext Friday
along with Tewer of Power in
concert sponsored by the Stu-
dent Activities Board, Tickets
are $4. See Rome Scott's col-
umn, beginning on page 3.

About 1200 ex pected
for parents’ weekend

About 1,200 parents are expect-
ed this Friday and Saturday for
Washington and Lee University’s
annual Parents’ Weekend.

Principal events of the week-
end include the traditional “re-
port to parents” Saturday in Lee
Chapel by university President
Robert E. R. Huntley and Douglas
R. Schwartz, president of the stu-

dent body. Presiding at the 11
a.m. session will be Dr. Lewis
John, dean of students.

A football game at 1:30 p.m.
on Wilson Field will be another
highlight for the parents, as

Washington and Lee’s Generals
seek to rebound from four

straight losses as they face South-
western of Memphis in the two
teams’ 15th vearly clash. South-
western’s Lynx hold the edge in

the series, seven to six, with one
tie.

The formal program of the
weekend begins Friday at 8:15
with a three-part musical pre
gram in Lee Chapel, to which
members ef the public as well
as parents and other
guests are invited.

The first portion of the pro-
Slain Will feature the newly
W&L Jazz Ensemble
Next will appear the Washing-
ton and Lee Brass and Percus-
sion Ensemble, and concluding
the program will be the W&L
Glee Club. Musical selections wil!
vary from Bach to student-writ-
ten compositions, and from Han-
del to Aaron Copland. The jaz
group is directed by Jim Shorten
a W&L junior; the brass-percus-

(Continued on

weekend

formed

page 8)
a
THE RING-TUM PHI

Page 2

 

The right to know...

At tonight’s University Council meeting, senior Ted Amshoff
is scheduled to introduce a proposal asking for the council’s recom-
mendation that faculty meetings be made open to the public.

The faculty, by the way, meets monthly and will be meeting
Monday at 4:30 p.m. in the New Science building.

The question of open faculty meetings was raised on this campus
last year, and the question was answered at that time by the faculty
in one word—no. The faculty raised several arguments through the
student-faculty University Council, including:

—The meetings are boring, and no student would really want to
attend them anyway;

—Opening the meetings would inhibit the use of the UC as a
faculty-student forum;

—Faculty members would feel inhibited in their voting by the
presence of students;

—The student media would not cover the meeting objectively;

—And matters involving individual students are sometimes dis-
cussed during the meetings.

The first argument doesn’t deserve mention as even a partially
valid argument.

We feel the UC wouldn’t be inhibited by the move. The opening
of faculty meetings would not necessarily mean letting the students
take an active role in discussions, A situation similar to one of specta-
tors in a courtroom could be arranged.

We think that faculty members by this time, for the most part,
are quite mature enough to make decisions for themselves without
being inhibited by students.

As far as the student media reporting objectively, we feel that
they could report at least as objectively as any faculty or administra-
tion member could do so. Our bias is no more biased than your bias,
so to speak. And with reports of the meetings in the student news-
paper or over the air as broadcast by WLUR, at least the meetings
would be reported. Most students don’t even know that the faculty
even meets, let alone that it is the primary body in making academic
decisions—i.e., all course, curriculum, and degree decisions—which
effect each and every Washington and Lee student in many cases.

As far as discussion of individual matters goes, we suggest a
simple solution—close the meetings by executive session as far as
discussion of individual students is concerned. As is the case with
the student body Executive Committee, we as a part of the media do
not want to concern ourselves with cases involving individual stu-
dents; we only want the facts—and all the facts—on matters con-
cerning the student body at large.

We only want our right to konw.

—P.J.L.

...and the right to be heard

Speaking of the faculty, a second proposal affecting students—
concerning the Courses and Degrees Committee—is expected to be
brought before the professors at their Monday get-together... for
the second time, unless it is tabled.

Earlier this year, the faculty defeated a proposal 46-40, which
would have increased student representation on the C&D Committee
from one to four.

Indications at that meeting (although we cannot be sure since
the meeting was closed) were that the faculty rejected the proposal
because there was no substantive argument backing the proposal.

From what we have heard, arguments for the proposal were kept
brief by its proponents because there seemed to be no doubt that
the proposal would be passed without difficulty. The proposal was
simply too good not to approve, the proponents reasoned. They were
wrong.

And now, the backers of the proposal have regrouped and are
ready to try again, this time armed with the arguments needed to
push the proposal through and with the experience not to trust any
seeming complacency of the faculty to appear to go along with the
proposal.

We hope this time that the faculty passes the measure. Increas-
ing student membership on the C&D Committee would do nothing
to affront faculty power—certainly the faculty recognizes this.

As it stands now, the faculty, meeting as a group, is the only
body on this campus with any power to initiate academic change.
C&D is merely a committee of recommendation. Any decision which
it passes must be given a stamp of approval by the faculty. The
students will have no more power than they had before; they will
only have a better chance for their wants and needs to be heard
py the faculty in hopes that necessary changes will be made.

That is not power; it is a right—the right to be heard.

A word of advice for Nov. 6

Vote.

—P.J.L.

Thursday, November 1, 1973

3 TQ THE EL

Republicans clarify
stand on Nixon, tapes
Dear Sir:

I would like to clear up some
confusion about last week’s cov-
erage of a resolution of the
Executive Board of the Washing-
ton and Lee Republicans.

First, this resolution did not
call for the disassociation of Presi-
dent Nixon from the Republican
Party. It called for the party to
reexamine—not abandon—it un-
critical support of the President.

Second, the resolution is an
action of the Executive Board,
not the W&L Republicans as a
whole. The Executive Board con-
sists of all elected officers of the
Club, plus the chairman of the
various operational committees.

This body has always enjoyed
the full confidence of the club
membership, and it is the efforts
of these members that have made
the W&L Republicans the best
College Republican Club in the
nation.

Still, they do not speak for the
whole club membership, and I

 

feel this should be made more
explicit.

Finally, as the resolution speaks
of possible obstruction of justice
in its reasons for supporting the
re-examination, I feel that the
President’s action of Oct. 28, in
releasing the tapes to Judge
Sirica, is sufficient to satisfy the
resolution.

Sincerely,

Carlyle Gregory

President, W&L Republicans

Editor’s note: We regret the
misinterpretation as a “usually
reliable source” proved wrong.

However, we still disagree with
your final paragraph.

PLACEMENT INTERVIEWS

Today—Columbia U. Graduate
School of Business, Washington 7,
10 a.m, to 4 p.m.

Friday — Drew _ U.
School, Wash. 7, 9-4.

Tuesday — U. S. General Ac-
counting Office, Wash. 7, 9-4.

Wednesday — Arthur Anderson
and Co,, Wash: 7, 9:4.

Wednesday through Friday —
Navy, Co-op, 9-4.

Graduate

Ask Traveler

Q—Is it worthwhile to get to know your teachers ouside of class?

A—My first impulse would be to say ‘certainly,’ even professors get
tired of maintaining their professional stoicism when they’d much
rather be quoting Popular Mechanics to drooling townspeople
like the rest of us! However, as the return address on your letter
is McCormick Annex, I suspect your simple question smaks of
brown-nosing, grade-grubbing, bootlicking and all the other traits

of the dedicated apple-polisher .. .

Q—So answer my question; does playing up to a teacher help one’s
GPR?

A—The answer’s ‘yes’! Teacher’s are human and love attention, no
matter if it comes in the form of blackboard washing after class
or gourmet recipes that you kopped out of the The Ladies Home
Journal, Why, I’ve known students going into finals with granite
F’s emerge smelling of ‘dean’s list’ just by doing the right thing,
like buying the prof that tweed sports coat with the leather
elbows that he’d been secretly coveting since his undergraduate
days at Sewanee. It’s just a matter of knowing the man’s weak-
nesses. Sometimes a simple “great class, sir” after a particularly
boring seminar will swing the old goat over to your side of the
gradebook. Whatever you do, though, stay away from asking the
traditionally stupid questions in class, because, more often than
not, those are exactly the questions the prof can’t answer! Re-
member, college professors deal in esoteria not World Books.

Q—What sort of question do you recommend?

A—Something straightforward, like “got change for a fifty, sir?”

THE RING-TUM PHI

The Ring-tum Phi is published on Thursdays during the college year.
It is printed by the Journalism Laboratory Press, Washington and Lee
University. The mailing address is Box 899, Lexington, Virginia 24450.
Entered as second class matter September 29, 1946, at the Post Office,
Lexington, Virginia 24450, under the act of March 3, 1879. Subscription
rates: $6.00 for the school year, $3.00 for the semester.

ANDREW J. A. CHRISS
Business Manager

PAUL J. LANCASTER
Editor-in-chief

a ee Jess Reeves
TS ah ea in Bill Austin
a ge Bill Robinson
ee Palmer Trice, Robert Gurnee
PWR 2, Bs Ss et a ee as David Lee
BI 8. Ss Dave Finnell, John Killpack, Chuck Alt

COMSPIDUIOTS 5.6 cc ciess: Tim Moore, Steve Yevich, Tom Rittenburg,
Rome Scott, Vance Marlowe, Bill Flesher, Paul Morella
Thursday, November 1, 1973

By ROME SCOTT

Sitting inside on one of the
newly arrived, dismal days of
winter’s onslaught, I began dig-
sing through the stack of albums
that has accumulated over the
vears and came up with one of
the undoubtedly least publicized
records to be put out recently.

‘Ashes are Burning” by Renais-
sance, a British group, was given
to me by the female vocalist of
the band last summer when I!
was reviewing a Wishbone Ash
COnCEert.

When I came across her album
I decided it was about time some-
body talked about Annie Haslam,
and the music on the album.

The story behind how I got
the album and met the girl is
interesting if not important to
understanding the situation well
enough to appreciate the record’s
undeserved lack of acclaim.

Upstairs, in the stands, the
crowd was clapping and the
music pulsating so that only bare
remnants of reached the
dressing room.

I had gone to the dressing room
for an interview with the man-
ager of Wishbone Ash, Miles
Copeland, but he was nowhere
around.

I had been told by the group’s

bass

Inside-Out

  

agency in New York to get a hold
of Haslam if Copeland was busy
and that’s how I ended up with
oS

P started to ask her -ap0ut
Wishbone but after the first few
questions she said that I would
have to talk to Copeland, that she
was in America to promote her
group’s new album.

“Great,” I thought. “Just what
I need.” As I started to get up
and make my way to the door,
she asked me to stay and started
i 6:5 fou fee eet
wasn’t at all interested but for
the sake of being polite I sat
still and listened to the barrage
of promotion talk.

My attitude at this point is
what I meant by the lack of
enthusiasm shown by the public
toward the album.

As I sat in the semi-darkness of
the cavernous room, I took notes
to pass the time and, at least
in part, to humor the girl.

When the unplanned interview
ended she handed me the album
and I gladly left.

I didn’t realize what I’d nearly
passed up until I got home and
plaved the album,

“Ashes Are Burning” includes
music that is classically oriented
Bie Fs ror fe eos to

  

THE RING-TUM PHI

Page 3

 

dark mood inclinations.

Haslam had said the group’s
music could be called classical
rock which sounded snobbish

when she said it but turned out
to be a fairly precise label for
tenaissance’s music.

The pure classical was lost
somewhere in making the album
but the feeling was there. An
accurate assessment of the mode
of the music is that the intention
grew from classical but resulted
in a mutated form when the lyrics
were added.

The classical influence is most
apparent in the structure of the
music. The use of harpsichord,
celeste, strings and horns add a
pristine delicacy that is inherent
in chamber music.

The lyrics are integrated with
the music to create visual images
of situation rather than to appeal
to the intellect.

doe sie and tie iyries are
fluid but dynamic. The drive be-
hind the structure is the quality
that gives the music its own
category, differentiating it from
classical,

The record improves with close
scrutiny and stands witness to
the reasoning behind the group’s
name. The approach to the music
on Renaissance’s album is fresh,
alive, a real rebirth of the feel-
ing found in the music that has
lasted.

The record proved my initial
Sisserest= poet y pt — put
learned my lesson.

Tower of Power,
Freedie King concert

The Tower of Power, Freddie
King and Sylvester and his Hot
3and concert is Nov. 9 at 8 p.m
in Doremus Gym.

Tower of Power, an ii-man
group from Oakland, Calif., puts
on a show of rocking rhythm and
blues. The band features a horn
section that the San Francisco
Chronicle called the “tightest
horn section in existence.” It is
meshed with vocals and a rhythm
section in a combination that
guarantees kick.

Freddie King follows the tradi-
tion of greatness set by the other
Kings, B.B. and Albert, laying
down some of the finest blues
to be found.

The hard-hitting guitarist from
Gilmer, Texas has recorded with
Muddy Waters, Sonny Cooper, T-
Bone Walker and others as well
having his latest album produced.
by Leon Russell.

King, Tower of Power and
Sylvester add up to a concert not
to be missed.

CLASSIFIED

TRAVEL ORGANIZERS
NEEDED
Get free passage for organizing
15 person group to almost any-
where. Call Travel Unlimited,
463-7174.

 

 

For Men

1 Dial Soap

2 Excedrin

3 Active Tooth Polish
4+ Flair Pen

9 Dep for Men Shampoo

6 Breath Pleasers

7 Sea & Ski Lipsaver

8 Contac Cold Capsules
7 7780 t) Beer

10 Foamy Shave Cream

 

 

For Women

1 Lady Trac II Razor
2 Lemon-Up Shampoo
3 Active Tooth Polish
4 Jean Nate

5 Woolite

6 Midol

7 Contac Cold Capsules

8 Breath Pleasers

9 Aqua Fresh

10 At Least One Bonus
Product

11 Tame Balsam & Body
Instant Conditioner

12. Playtex Deodorant
Tampons

  
   

will save you $4.00 in the next month
great for travel
exciting new products for you to try

over 3 million collegians purchased

SUPERBOX

available at UNIVERSITY SUPPLY STORE

is back...completely different
best ever...is SEMI-FREE

at least ten products for 99c

)

 

 
De
2 age 4

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

By BILL AUSTIN
Next Thursday night, Novem-
der 8, at 8 p.m., the Alpha-Omega
present=“The Diary of
Adam and Eve” in Lee Chapel.
The production combines music

SAB to show
film, ‘The Fox’

D. =, Lawrence's “The Fox”
will be coming to duPont Audi-
torium this weekend, sponsored
by the film committee of the Stu-
dent Activities Board.

The movie will be shown Fri-
day and Saturday at 7 and 9 p.m.
each night. Admission is $1.

Though quite brief, “The Fox,”
embraces most of the central
ideas that estblished Lawrence as
force among modern authors: the
mystical, bold Lawrentian ideas
of blood, soul, nature and mas-
culine-feminine essence.

Starring in the film are Sandy

Players

Dennis, Anne Heywood and Keir

Duillea.

=f TO Ff

The University Council will
meet tonight at 7 p.m. in the
Executive Committee room of
the University Center. Topics
to be discussed include = ap-
proval of the five year calendar
amd a resolution calling for the
apening of faculty meetings to
imterested students.

and humor with timeless insights
into the war that is the male-
female relationship.

“The Diary” was originally the
first act of the successful Broad-
way show, “The Apple Tree,” a
1966 musical that offered three
short plays in a very loose frame-
work, each being the result of a
short-story adaptation. However,
“The Diary” fared particularly
well with critics and viewers, pos-
sibly because of its derivation
from the fertile genius of Mark
Twain.

Jerry Bock and Sheldon Har-
nick, the pair who wrote the

Thursday, November 1, 1973

Mark Twain’s ‘Dairy of Adam and Eve’
to be be performed in Lee Chapel Nov. 8

musie and lyrics for “Fiddler on
the Roof,” conceived the idea for
such a_ prose-to-musical tranla-
tion. A 13-month New York run-
ning evidenced the wisdom of
their attempt.

The Alpha-Omega Players of
Dallas, Texas have subsequently
taken the show through five years
of touring, staging more than
2700 performances in 45 states
and Canada. “The Diary’s” longe-
vity apparently stems from the
unique fashion in which the
green-world of Eden is recreated
and fueled with comic complexi-
ties. Adam emerges as a simple,

good-natured creature, easy prey
for the barbed-wire tongue of his
rib-coneocted mate, Eve. Into the
midst of this domestic mismatch
prances the serpent, a slick so-
phisticate attired in a dinner
jacket, and the uneasy Paradise
is destined for a tumble. Surely
this is the stuff upon which satire
feasts.

The show comes to campus
through the efforts of the Uni-
versity Culture Committee. Tick-
ets are available in advance of
the performance for $.75, while
those purchased at the door wil!
sell for $1.

Rockbridge Theatre-Concert Series
presents Gilbert & Sullivan’s ‘Mikado’

Drama and the fine arts seem
to be the vogue as winter sets
upon Washington and Lee, as two
plays and an operetta are being
or will be presented during the
first few days of November.

“The Mikado,” as performed by
the Turnau Opera players, will be
presented Wednesday in the audi-
torium of Lexington High School
as the first presentation of the
season of the Rockbridge Con-
cer't-Theatre Series.

In addition, “The Royal Hunt
of the Sun” (see review elsewhere
in this issue) is currently being

 

JOSTEN’S RING DAY
Monday, November 5

11 to 2 in The University Supply Store
Mr. Bill Stephens, College Rep.

 

oe eseeeeneoee

SS SERS CORRS aca.)

4 121 W. Nelson

 

FOR YOUR EXTRA PIECES OF FURNITURE

Varner & Pole

115 Main St. —

Need Extra Cash

STUDENT LOANS AVAILABLE
NO AGE RESTRICTION

PEOPLES Finance Service

OF LEXINGTON

 

Lexington, Va.

 
 

Phone 463-3176

$

   
 
   
     

presented through Saturday and
“The Diary of Adam and Eve”
(see story elsewhere in this issue)
will be presented next Thursday.

“Mikado,” by Gilbert and Sul-
livan, inaugurates the 28th year
of the RCTS. The operetta is one

 

East Lexington
Grocery

Beer — Ice — Gas
Party Supplies — Snacks

Open 7 days a week
ABC No. 2078—8 a.m.-10 p.m.
SHOP FOR SUNDAY
EVENING DINNER
We Sell & Deliver Kegs

 

 

 

eeoefeherfek

%

 

of five presentations by the
RCTS this year. Subscriptions to
the series will be available at the
door of the Turnau Opera pre-
sentation, and special visitor's
rates will be available to guests
of members at $3.

° °
* / s 2
: Paul’s Bike Shop :
oe e
° 11 N. New St., Staunton :
Phone 886-1310 e
© PAUL Now Accepting All $
> BIKE REPAIRS at $
¢ Sears’ Lexington Store $
; Pick-Up Every Wednesday ;
. Returned On Wednesday. ;
e Also New 10 Speeds Batavus e
. Bikes For Sale. :
e .

s

eee rhe ene sented rfe see nee nee se re ee rene ee re ee ese eee ee ee eo oe

 

a
% ° ° %
: The First National Bank =
a of Lexington *
+ has special checking accounts for students
Deena Jebdebdeentetendetentenss
( ~))

 

 

 

STUDENT 8!

Make this your headquarters for Good Food

and Service

We have meal tickets at savings to you

SOUTHERN INN

 

 

 
Thursday,

November

1973

“Royal Hunt of the Sun’—a review

Pomp and power on a tiny stage

By TED BLAIN

To pack the majesty of the
ancient Incan empire onto the
tiny stage of the W&L Theatre
takes, in itself, remarkable ambi-
tion. Student director Doug
Thomas, with “The Royal Hunt
of the Sun,” does not merely
succeed in fitting Peru onto the
stage; he renders a grand nation’s
downfall with all the pomp and
power it deserves. Directing as
a drama major his senior thesis
production, Thomas rates an A
plus for his efforts. He overcomes
the miniature stage with minia-
ture spectacle, and despite cer-
tain shortcomings in the last half
of the play, he brings to the
University Theatre a bona fide
success.

Francisco Pizarro’s emascula-
tion of the Incas in 1532 has been
taught to every student since
grade school. With less than 175
men Pizarro and his lieutenant
Hernando de Soto captured chief-
tain, Atahuallpa and held him
for an impossible ransom—a room
full of gold. The ransom paid,
Pizarro killed Atahuallpa, leaving
the Incas broken and poor.

Playwright Peter Shaffer
(whose brother Anthony wrote
“Sleuth”’) presents Pizarro and
Atahuallpa as mighty opposites,
drawn to one another like poles
of a magnet, each simultaneously
the hunter and the game. Both
men claim illegitimate births, but
where Pizarro is suckling of a
sow, Atahuallpa is son of the sun,
a god on earth. Pizarro is a fad-

Git

Celebration
Thursday in the
Cockpit

5-6 p.m.

ing conquistador hunting for im-
mortality through fame; Atahu-
allpa is a young god, seeking the
blessing of the white divinity,
Pizarro. Face to face in antagon-
ism at the beginning of the play,
the two are side by side, literally
tied together at the end. They
find laughter, respect, love in one
another, but these brief pleasures
give way to a more lasting de-
spair.

Shaffer said of the play that
he was portraying “two immense
and joyless powers.” Joyless in-
deed is the world of his work.
Pizarro speaks often of birds of
prey, for he is obsessed by the
tendency of one species to attack
another. Shaffer shows man as a
bird of prey: Christian opposes
pagan; Spaniard opposes Inca; red
soldier opposes brown soldier,
without thought of their similar
heritage, humanity. Any slight
voices of hope and chivalry soon
vanish into vomit in the: gutter.
Nothing can last; even the great
sun becomes a piece of booty to
gamble over. As the sun fades,
so does the Inca civilization.
Atahuallpa submits to death will-
ingly, confident that his father
in the sky will resurrect him. In
the end he is a cold heap on the
stage, an outrageous cheat to
Pizarro, who believed for a mo-
ment that man could conquer
death.

Mark Daughtrey is a_ surpris-

The talented

ingly good Pizarro.

   
 
 

  
 

Wendell’s
Barber Shop

OPEN 9-6

9 South Jefferson

 

Closed Wednesday

 

 

 

FRIDAY, NOVEMBER 9

 

The Student Activities Board

— PRESEN

“Four Fun-Filled Hours’’

TOWER OF POWER

FREDDIE KING

SYLVESTER and his HOT BAND

 

8 p.m.
Tickets — $4.00 Advance — Available in Co-op.

‘TS —

Doremus Gymnasium

 

 

 

THE RING-TUM PHI Page 5
Daughtrey, in past production, pleasing actor in the cast. He
has played comic or pathetic never slips, never lets up, never
roles. His is a style more suited lapss into unintentional comedy.

to a Thersites than a Pizarro, but
he submerges himself so well in
this role that his Pizarro is cred-
ible. In one of the best scenes of
the production, when Pizarro and
his men are marching into the
Inca empire, tramping and shift-
ing so well that the stage seems
for a moment the size of a foot-
ball field, Daughtrey’s hauteur
and confidence and grizzly ap-
pearance make him seem born
into the role.

Daughtrey’s haggard appear-
ance finds a perfect complement
in Jack Arnold’s’ Atahuallpa.
Where Daughtrey’s Pizarro is
clumsy and rough, Arnold’s Inca
chief is graceful, lithe, power-
fully restrained. His voice has the
properly arrogant timbre, his
bearing the perfect blend of reg-
ality and control. He is especially
effective in the first act as he
stands, in the large sunburst that
dominates the stage, monitoring
the approach of the Spaniards.

One other actor deserves spec-
ial mention—David Minton as
Martin Ruiz, the narrator, Minton
provides simply one of the solid-
est performances given in the
past four vears at the University

Theatre. He conveys so much
agony, so much beauty, so much
love and despair in his recital

that he is the one consitently

The faults that hinder the other
actors — exaggeration of gesture,
slip of accent—never appear in
Minton.

The remainder of the cast is
more than adequate. Brock John-
son renders a nearly flawless de
Soto, the noble foil to Pizarro.
Mark Bold appropriately oils his
way through the part of an insidi-
ous government tagalong. Don
Hogle creates an Indian transla-
tor that is just what he should
be—a destestable wimp. Rich
Krohn as de Candia is the best
of the soldiers, a lot occasionally
marred by an unfortunate South-
ern accent. Will Cantler, pouting
his way through the role of young
Martin Ruiz, seems unlikely to
grow into the wise old man of
David Minton. The priests, Alex
Bourdez and Paul Richards, mix
piety and hyprocrisy to the
proper proportions.

“ven with such generally fine
performances, the play has some
flaws, nearly all in the second
half. Where the hunt of Atahu-
allpa moves steadily and properly
to a well-timed climax, the Inca’s
execution hardly progresses at
all. Of course delay and impati-
ence are written into the play,
but they are sustained by mount-
ing tension. Pizarro’s captive has

(Continued on page 8)

 

 

World Campus Afloat: Join Us!

ws , Sails each September & February.

This is the way you’ve always wanted
to learn. .

. and should. Combine

 

 
  

—, a
Ns, or » i

= accredited study with a fascinating

semester of travel to Africa, Austral-
asia, the Orient, and the Americas.

Over 8500 students from 450 colleges
fm, have already participated, Financial
& aid is available. Write now for free
= catalog:

WCA, Chapman College
Box 1000, Orange, CA 92666

 

KEYDET-GENERAL
RESTAURANT

ne thy

Pttily Clin

  
 

AND
MOTEL

Nintashy ‘ / ait

 

KORA 4 |
ARS

Prine

    
 

Superb Pyare tert
Preturesque Atmosphere
Serving Deno ‘it thre

Teadletionr ol Viren
Complete Facilities For

E Banquets, Weddings & Receptions
A VOR RESERVATIONS,
Cie Mile West off exomtoman U.S. 60 oh

 

VIHOND tos 2005

at

 
Page 6

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

Water polo team finishes
second in tournament

For the third consecutive year,
the Washington and Lee water
polo team placed second in the
eight-team state tournament. The
Generals finished behind the
home-standing University of Rich-
mond “A” squad in the double-
elimination affair, held at the
UR pool.

The Generals opened their bid
»” championship laurels with a
5-3 trouncing of hapless Lynch-
burg, then disposed of a simil-
arly outclassed VMI unit by the
score of 9-3. However, Richmond’s
talent-thick “A” team edged W&L,
9-6, dimming title hope consid-

f
I

 

Columbia

University

Graduate
School

of Business

Mr. John Barch will be on
campus NOVEMBER 1 to speak
with students from all disci-
plines who are interested in a
graduate management educa-
tion, Nine possible concentra-
tions are offered plus a variety
of joint degrees programs in
conjunction with other gradu-
ate divisions of Columbia Uni-
versity,

 

BASS WEEJUN
LOAFERS

$20.95

BOAT SHOES
$19.95

TURTLE NECK
SHIRTS

All Colors

$6.00-$7.00
J. Ed. Deaver & Sons, Inc.

MAIN STREET

erably. The team _ re-organized
sufficiently to knock off UR’s
“B” squad, denying the school

total domination of the vent.
However, a rematch with the
“A” team made manifest the

frustration of being runner-up,
for the Generals succumbed once
more, this time by the tally of
7-4,

However, the team did put a
pair on the seven-member All-
State team, and two more Gen-
erals gained recognition as All-
State substitutes. Jim Howard
and Dick Barber garnered first
team honors, and Barber, the
team’s high scorer, was_ also
named Most Valuable Player for
the third year in a row. Substi-
tute-stars were goalie Bill Tiers
and Will Brotherton.

Trailing W&L in the tourna-
ment were, in order of finish,
the Richmond “B” team, VMI’
Virginia, Virginia Commonwealth,
Old Dominion and Lynchburg.

Quote of the week

“If you come to a fork in the
road, take it.”

Thursday, November 1, 1973

Soccer team rips VMI

 

Bob Sillers and Rolf Piranian, pictured here in the Homecoming
romp over VMI, are key figures in W&L’s hopes for division title
honors. (See story below for further details).

—Photo by Charles Grubbs

Soccer title hopes put on the line against Madison

After absorbing a 1-0 loss to
strong Lynchburg in a well-play-
ed contest last week, the W&L
soccer team plays an important
game today in Harrisonburg.

The Generals take on powerful

Madison College at 2:00 p.m. in
a vital division game. Madison.
Lynchburg and W&L are all] in
the running for the title in the
western division of both the Vir-
ginia Intercollegiate Soccer As-
sociation (VISA) and the Virginia
College Athletic Associaton.
Madison, which earlier defeated
Lynchburg, boasts a 10-1-1 over-
all record, while Wé&L is 6-2-0
pending a non-conference game at
Washington College (Md.) Tues-

Washingion and Lee Universiti

Bonkstore

Indian Summer

See
30 per cent Off

day.

The Generals are led by junior
Jim Fox, who has ripped the op-
ponents’ nets 11 times in eight
games. W&L has outscored the
opposition 27-10.

The Dukes of Madison have
been getting balanced scoring
from a number of players in com:
piling a whopping 53 goals to
their opposition’s nine. The top
scorer is Ray Laroche with nine
goals and seven assists.
Thursday,

November 1,

1973

THE RING-TUM PHI

Page 7

 

&L looks to end losing skein
after loss to Sewanee Tigers, 31-0

By BILL FLESHER

Though the statistics and the
score wouldn’t indicate it, Wash-
ington and Lee’s defensive unit
played one of their better games
against Sewanee last Saturday.

True, the Purple Tigers did post
31 points on the scoreboard while
the Generals failed to cross the
goal line; and true as well Sewa-
nee did gain 385 yards on the day.

But the defense did well to

keep the totals that low. And,
actually, the score should have
been only 18-0.

More on that later.

The offense had their worst
day of the season, as they were
shutout for the first time this
season. W&L could muster only

148 yards total offense, and they
lost the ball an astounding eight
times on trunovers, with six of
those giveaways coming in the
first half.

The Tigers jumped out to a
6-0 lead late in the first quarter
when, after a W&L fumble, Gor-
do Watson went over from one
yard out.

They upped that lead to 12-0
at halftime when after another

  

There’s a place tor you on
Piedmont. For a weekend of
fun, a game out of town, a
juick trip home, whatever—
there’s a P iedmont jet or
propjet flight to fit your
With personal
thoughtful service always.
Piedmont—serving over 75
cities including Chicago,
New York, Washington,
Norfolk, Atlanta, Memphis.
Call us, or your travel agent.

plans.

  

Our twenty-fifth year

of service.

miscue Watson
second score of the day,
from the eleven.

Late in period number three
Sewanee went ahead 18-0 when
Watson got TD number three on
a 31-yard scamper.

‘That’s where the scoring should
have ended.

Generals got his

this one

However the officials, seeing
that the Tiger fans were hungry
for a rout, seemed to help post
the final 13 Sewanee points.

Midway through the _ final
period on a fourth-and-goal, Se-
wanee quarterback Steve Tipps
tried to go in from the W&L one.
As several, make that many
along the W&L sideline saw it,
Tipps was stopped at the line of
scrimmage.

Ditto for three of the officials.

However the fourth, who was
positioned away from the play,
saw it otherwise. Sewanee 25,
W&L 0.

Then, late in the game, Sewa-
nee took off looking to “run it
up.” They got down to the W&L
10 with just :01 showing on the

elock.

Vo

timeouts

remaining,

 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
    
    
 

 

Save Long Distance Calls — Free Reservations
Tickets Cost No More At

TRAVEL UNLIMITED

21 WEST WASHINGTON ST.

463-7174

 

 

the Tigers lined up in hopes to
get off a last play.

The referee waited until they
were set before spotting the ball
(mistake 1), then forgot to signal
the clock to start (mistake 2).

Bob Swimer, tossed a TD
strike as time expired. Tigers 31,
Generals 0.

As Kurt Vonnegut would
“So if goes.

say,

* *

Saturday the Generals play host
to Southwestern in hopes of
breaking what is now a four
game losing streak.

Last
Lynx,

year, in Memphis, the
in a close game that was
not decided until the final sec-
onds when an interception was
returned for a touchdown, beat
WE&L 14-0.

Harriers take fourth in VCAA

This past Monday, Washington
ande Lee’s cross-country team
placed fourth among eight teams
in the Virginia Athletic Associa-
tion (VCAA) meet held at New-
port News. Pacing the squad’s
effort was Mike Burns, who
finished fourteenth individually
with a time of 41:58 over a dist-
ance of 5.54 miles.

Bridgewater, the
VCAA champion, captured the
meet, edging out Roanoke and
Madison for state honors. How-

defending

UU
Ce

 

ever, Roanoke’ College’s Bill
Warner put forth a strong indi-
vidual perfomances to finish first
among all runners, completing
the new Mariners Museum course
in 30:11.

Possessing a solid 8-5 won-lost
mark in dual meets for the sea-
son, Washington and Lee’s win-
ningest fall sports team travels
tomorrow to Eastern Mennonite
with well-founded hopes of fat-
tening its  victory-total.

 

 

 

Original
Awe

Dry Cleaning

Linen Service

WE DELIVER

 

Storage & Free Moth Proofing

Washington and Lee
University
duPont Gallery
WEDNESDAY, NOV. 7
11 a.m. to 8 p.m.

PURCHASES MAY BE CHARGED

UNIVERSITY :
CLEANERS

Reliable Service In

Shirts Laundered

Clothing Repair

463-3622
heceund

ave 8

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

1,200 parents anticipated

(Continued trom page 1)
sion group, by Prof. Rob Stewart,
acting head of the fine arts de-
partment at W&L, and the glee
ciub by Gordon P. Spice, music
instructor.

Also on Friday evening will be
the traditional reception given for
parents by President and Mrs.
Huntley, in Evans Hall. Playing
at that event will be the Lexing-
ton Quintet.

MOCK ELECTION RESULTS:
Governor — Goodwin,
Howell, 20%.
Lieutenant Governor — Dalton,
74¢° Michasl, 15%; Crater, 11%.
Attorney General —

1%;

ley (write-in), 1%.

CALYX NOTICE
Next Thursday will be the final
make-up day for Calyx formal
photographs. No other formals
will be taken after that date.

 

Hamric and Sheridan
JEWELERS
Watch and Jewelry Repair
Hand Engraving & Class Rings
463-2022

 

Echols, |
Sie Vii er aso et

 

 

nm «£

Thursday, November 1, 1973

  
  

“Royal Hunt of the Sun” is currently being performed daily through
Saturday at the Washington and Lee University Theatre, See review

page 5.

—Photo by Bill Robinson

 

The average

No man who has mastered the flying skills
it takes to fly and land ona ship at sea can be

eaHed an average pilot. And the sense of
accomplishments and satisfaction that he

enjoys are also above average. Which is only

right. For the man who would go places as a
Naval Aviator must pass through the most

challenging and demanding training program

to be found anywhere.

From Aviation Officer Candidate School
through Flight Training to the day his

golden Navy Wings are awarded, he is tested;
driven; pushed and tested again. And for good

reason. The Navy has learned that without

the will to succeed, no man can be successful.

Navy Pilot isn’t.

The benefits aren't average either.

A Naval Aviator can earn up to $10,000 upon
commissioning, The pay after two years is
up to $12,000 and over $16,000 two years later.

Do you have what it takes to qualify to

fly NAVY? Even if you’ve never flown
before, if you've got the desire, you’re
halfway there.

The Navy Officer information team will
be on campus to discuss the professional
opportunities in NAVAL AVIATION and
NUCLEAR POWER training.

Stop by STUDENT SNACK BAR between
9 am, and 4 p.m, on the 7th, 8th and 9th
ef November.

"Royal Hunt of Sun’
has only a few flaws

(Continued from page 5)
filled his room with gold, and
now Pizarro is frantic, standing
between potential mutiny on one
hand and the breaking of his
own word on the other. In this
production, the tension has occa-
sion to give way to tedium, as

Pizarro dawdles over a wood
carving while his men _ bicker.

The emphasis is wrong; one feels
that Pizarro is stubborn, not
conscience-stricken.

The most. distressing error
comes at the conclusion, when the
rising of the sun, so vital for
the resurrection of Atahuallpa, is
never clearly evident. Mummery
and chanting, dragged on too
long, supersede the necessary act

ee ee oe
stage brighten somewhat, but

there is no sense of the awe that
should accompany dawn. Atahu-
allpa is, after all, son of the
sun, and to play down light in
favor of voices is unfair and con-
fusing. It is even more unfortu-
nate that such a lapse should
occur in a production that uses
music and light so well.

The play runs through Satur-
day, and if five days are time
enough for the rare flaws to dis-
appear, the final performance
should be impeccable—and sober-
ing—entertainment.

 

R/C Theatres
Regal Cinema Fare
in Lexington

State Theatre

12-14 W. Nelson St. 463-3424

NOW SHOWING

A Touch
of Class

SUN.-MON.-TUES.
Highplains
Drifter

with
Clint Eastwood
Lyric Cinema
135 & Vain Se 463-3543

NOW SHOWING

Clockwork

Orange

Rated R
SUN.-MON.-TUES,

Enter the
Dragon

 
THE RING-TUM PHI

Washington and Lee University’s Weekly Newspaper

 

Vol. LXXIII

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA, NOVEMBER 8, 1973

Number 8

 

2 arrested for weekend thefts
in dorms; third suspect sought

By STEVE YEVICH

Two men were apprehended by
police early Sunday morning in
Saker Dormitory and _ charged
\ith breaking and entering.

Craig R. Nelson (W&L class of
72), of Greenvillage, New Jersey,
and Robert George Conway, of
Scranton, Pennsylvania, were dis-
covered in rom 310 by several
law students shortly after 1 a.m.,
and a call was placed to police
neadquarters at 1:15 a.m. Lexing-
ton police soon arrived on the
scene and arrested the two. The
men were subsequently charged
with breaking and entering.

Robert Murray, University
Proctor, reports that there is an-
other suspect, who will be picked
up and questioned as soon as he
is seen again.

A rash of thefts occurred dur-
ing the weekend in the Freshmen
Dorms. Steve Good discovered on
Thursday that his ten-speed bi-
evele had been stolen from the
laundry room. On Friday night
Trip Wornom’s tape deck and
“eadphones were taken from his
voom (282). A set of stereo head-
shones was stolen from Cal Col-
vin’s room (101) Saturday night.
Ken Walter’s wallet, containing
$50, was also taken Saturday
night from his room (463). Rob

one took his wristwatch and wal-
let between 11 p.m. Saturday and
1 a.m, Sunday. On Sunday morn-
ing Tim Vaughan discovered that
a suit, jacket and headphones

Faculty meetings stay

were missing from his room
(426). A watch and a wallet con-
taining $41 were taken from Sol
Brotman’s room (11-212) between
8:25 and 9 Sunday morning.

Mr. Murray said that he has
some clues and several suspects
in mind concerning these rob-
beries, but as yet he has no sub-
stantial evidence.

closed;

UC recommends compromise

The faculty, in its regular
monthly meeting Monday, dele-
gated its Executive Committee to
study the possibility of opening
up the now-secret sessions of the
meetings, at least to some extent.

A University Council proposal
drawn up last Thursday and sent
to the faculty apparently will be
scrutinized by the Executive Com-
mittee, but that committee will
come up with its own proposal to

Stephenson takes ‘most dangerous man’ award

Professor Buford S. Stephenson
clinched the most dangerous man
award with 1000 votes in a penny-
a-vote poll conducted last week
on campus for the benefit of the
United Fund.

Rick “Hammer” McCain took se-
cond; Doug Schwartz, Ben Sher-
man, and Richard Nixon rounded
out the top five. The Fijis nipped
the SAE’s, 40-38, in the contest to
determine the biggest fishbowl

around. Over $60 was collected for
the United Fund in the contest.

NOTICE

Senator William E. Brock of
Tennessee, a 1953 graduate of
Wé&L, will return to Lexington
Monday, Nov. 12, to address the
W&L student body in Lee Chapel
at 9 p.m.

Brock’s speech is sponsored by

Wilson (427) reported that some-

Inside-Out

the W&L Republicans.

Tower of Power, Freddie King here

By ROME SCOTT

Tower of Power comes to town this Friday bring-
ing Freddie King and Sylvester and his Hot Band
with it.

The concert ticket-selling campaign will have al-
ready begun by the time this article appears but
there is still time for the slackers to get their
tickets.

Tickets are being sold at the Co-op all day Thurs-
dav and Friday.

The Tower of Power concert is the first to be put
on by the Entertainment Committee in conjunction
with Willard “Gabbo” Galbreath, a Norfolk promoter
who has worked with the Rolling Stones, Jethro Tull
and other big name groups.

Although the promotion effort is much more ex-
tensive for this concert than for the Scruggs affair,
participation by the Washington and Lee student
body is still inyportant to the success of the show.

The 1il-man Oakland group, Tower of Power
headlines the bill for good reasons according to re-
cent reviews of the band’s concerts.

A powerful combination of rock and blues, the
g-oup has wowed audiences up and down the West
Coast for several years.

Tower of Power’s first two albums, “Easy Bay
Grease” and “Bump City” both made the national
best-selling charts and hit singles “You’re Still a
Young Man” and “So Very Hard to Go” brought the
band into the national top-40 scene.

A colorful mix of well-coordinated horns and
heavy rhythm patterns, Tower of Power puts down
a move-your-soul sound that won’t let an audience
sit still.

Freddie King is one of the most dynamic blues
guitarists to emerge from the conglomerate of the
look-alike blues music world.

King has been a background composer for a
number of years giving well-known performers such
as Eric Clapton and Jimmy Page the material that
helped make them famous.

“Hideaway”, “Going Down” and “Have You Ever
Loved a Woman” have influenced even the highest
echelons of the music world. These and other Freddie
King songs make up the final medley of most Led
Zeppelin concerts.

Friday night’s concert will assuredly live up to

the name of the top-billed group and be a tower of
power not worth missing.

give to the faculty next month.

The UC proposal called for a
summary of any debate on any
topic requested by a University
Council member. The summary
would be prepared by a member
of the faculty and released within
24 hours of the meeting to WLUR,
the president of the student body,
and the university news service,
and the Ring-tum Phi (see edi-
torial, page 2). The proposal was
voted for by the UC after a pro-
posal by Ted Amshoff, a W&L
senior, was rejected, 3-18. The se-
cond proposal was passed un-
animously save for one absten-
tion.

 

Faculty meetings are still held
behind closed doors, but a move-
ment may be afoot to change
that situation.

—Phote by Charles Grubbs
Page 2 THE RING-TUM PHI

 

 

lOUTLOOKand REVIEW

Compromising the issue

Consider the following:

A compromise is reached between an entity wishing to withhold
certain information and an entity wishing to obtain that same infor-
mation. How does the compromise work?

The entity wishing to obtain the information, entity “B’’, has to
ask the other entity, “A”, for he specific information which “B”
wishes to obtain. “A” will then prepare a summary of the informa-
tion requested and release it through appropriate outlets. Information
not specifically requested by “B” will be withheld.

Sound familiar? Well, you’re wrong. The case we are referring
to here is not the one going on in Washington between Nixon and
Congress over the matter of the tapes; rather, We are concerned
here with a proposed compromise between the faculty of Washington
and Lee and the students over the matter of closed faculty meetings.

The University Council last Thursday voted to recommend to the
faculty that the presiding officer of the faculty meeting appoint a
member of the faculty to prepare a summary of debate of issue at
the meetings for release to WLUR, the president of the student body,
the campus news service, and the Phi. Only issues specifically request-
ed by a UC member will be “reported,” if that term can even be ap-
plied here.

The faculty has tabled the motion until its December meeting,
referring it to the faculty executive committee for study.

If nothing else, this is at least a step in the right direction. Cer-
tainly the faculty will not be “harassed” by this move, and certainly
members of that group will still be able to come out with “in process”
and ‘“‘half-embryonic” statements, as one professor put it, without any
fear of these statements being circulated for, good lord, the students
to find out about.

Of course, the ideal situation in our eyes is for the meetings to be
opened fully, save for executive sessions on discussions of individual
matters, but the ideal is somewhat unattainable in this circumstance.

After all, you can impeach Nixon, but there’s nothing you can do
to the faculty.

—P.J.L.

H e e ti
ypocrisy in action

While we are on the subject of closed faculty meetings, we find
ourselves awed by the actions of the Executive Committee of the
student body in regard to the closed meetings.

The EC fully endorsed the proposal initially introduced to the
University Council calling for the opening of faculty meetings except
when matters involving individual students are discussed. The EC
apparently thought that openness was of such importance at these
meetings that a stipulation in writing be made to open the meetings.

Yet, this same EC rejected a proposal earlier this year which
would have delineated in writing that EC meetings are to be open
except when matters involving individual students are discussed.

If any faculty members knew of this, it would be of no wonder
why such a proposal concerning faculty meetings would be shot down.

We are certain the EC calls executive session only in such in-
stances concerning individual students, but that is not the point. The
EC by law (or lack thereof) could ostensibly call an executive session
on any matter it would desire. This, in light of the EC’s backing of the
proposal to open faculty meetings, is absurd. More than that, it is
hypocrisy.

We are ecstatic that the EC backed the proposal to open faculty
meetings, yet we are also dismayed. There simply is no room in the
intellectual confines of this university for a double standard.

—P.J.L.

The great potato chip scandal

Chalk one up for our side.

After receiving several complaints in recent weeks about the
amount of potato chips in your run-of-the-mill potato chip bag in the
Co-op, manager James Toler called in a state weights-and-measures
official and had the lot of potato chip bags then on the Co-op counter
weighed.

Sure enough, the average weight of the bags was less than the
average weight listed on the bags themselves.

Consequently, the suppliers of said potato chip bags were notified
and all is to be corrected within another week, says Mr. Toler. The
great potato chip scandal has come to an abrupt halt. If all is not cor-
rected within a week, the distributor may be in for a fine.

Let’s hear it for the good guys.

Thursday, November 8, 1973

Ask Traveler

A concerned student recently wrote to report finding red bricks
under the mattress of his bed, saying also that Cyrus McCormick
often appeared in dreams to complain that the statue on the front lawn
really WAS Robert E. Lee—like all the tourists thought—while he, on
the other hand, was much taller with wavy hair.

Obviously, this student suffered from colonnadia extremis, an
acute pyschological condition prevalent at W&L during the bleak win-
ter months of the year and characterized by sudden runs on the View-
Master supply at Macks (-the ones with the twenty color slides of
Miami Beach included.) The cause for this mental disorder is simply
an overexposure to the Washington and Lee campus itself. The per-
vasive theme of colonial archetecture throughout the entire college
and the studied simplicity of the campus makes most students wish
that the much-maligned designer of Reid Hall had given freer reign to
his Victorian penchant for the grotesque. Frankly, what this uni-
versity needs is a change of pace! Even out of sight of the campus, one
is not free from its depressing influence. Just like a quick look at the
postcards in any Lexington hotel and restaurant: “view of the Colon-
nade with snow from the front;” “view of the Colonnade in the spring
from the side;” “view of the Colonnade during Autumn from House
Mountain.” And Lee Chapel is even worse, especially since the opening
of the faculty art show in duPont—it’s frightening how two grown
men can find one building so fascinating!

Special layouts in magazines, photos in catalogues, prints for sale
—everywhere one is bombarded by tons of campus paraphanalia,
until one is forced, for the sake of his sanity, to come into class via
the football field to escape the maddening two-tone charm of the
front campus. Even the photographers who deliberately peddle their
brainwashing smut succumb to their subject. So crazed was one
Lynchburg camera buff that in an attempt to get “the perfect shot” of
the Colonnade he became tangled in the machinery of the Lee Chapel
chimes and was crushed to death at noon. And the year before, an
artist working in pastels on the front lawn was found dangling from
the roof of Washington Hall, coercing an RSVP out of Ol’ George for
a midnite soiree at the Corner Grill.

So, until Spring wafts the coldness away and the road to Macon
opens, little can be done about colonnadia extremis. Temporary relief
may be found in animal husbandry, guided tours of the VMI bar-
racks, prank telegrams to Roger Mudd, or a can of lighter fluid and

the Washington Annex floor-plan.
i
t
The Ring-tum Phi invites let-

On open EC meetings
ters from our readers on any

Sir:

In relation to your closing com- topic of concern to students.
ment in last week’s editorial on Letters should be submitted to
open faculty meetings, your re- the Ring-tum Phi office in the
porter at the weekly open EC first floor of Reid Hall or to
meetings does get all the facts on P.O. Box 899, no later than 6
matters concerning the student p.m. Monday. The Ring-tum Phi

reserves the right to edit letters

body at large.

for libel and length. All letters
should be signed, though names
will be withheld on request.

Ben Sherman

Ed. Note—See this week’s second
editorial.

THE RING-TUM PHI

The Ring-tum Phi is published on Thursdays during the college year.
It is printed by the Journalism Laboratory Press, Washington and Lee
University. The mailing address is Box 899, Lexington, Virginia 24450.
Entered as second class matter September 29, 1946, at the Post Office,
Lexington, Virginia 24450, under the act of March 3, 1879. Subscription
rates: $6.00 for the school year, $3.00 for the semester.

 

 

 

PAUL J. LANCASTER
Editor-in-chief

ANDREW J. A. CHRISS
Business Manager

Jess Reeves
Bill Austin

Managing Editor
Sports Editor

oo 6, ere eS Bill Robinson
eee oes £ sas Se Palmer Trice, Robert Gurnee
POGGe So ss Ss Se SS Se SS David Lee
PS oo he ees Dave Finnell, John Killpack, Chuck Alt
OS a vn cv ees eas: Tim Moore, Steve Yevich, Tom Rittenburg,

Rome Scott, Vance Marlowe, Bill Flesher, Paul Morella
Thursday,

November 8, 1973

THE RING-TUM PHI

>

Page 3

The rising cost of W&L tuition:
up 25 per cent since 1970-71

y TIM MOORE

The cancerous cost of living has
ulcerated successfully through
the tuition tissues of W&L life,
and the revelation of a new pana-
cea to curb the growth is hidden
in the sumptuary future.

This year W&L seniors are pay-
ing 25% more for tuition than
they paid as college freshmen four
vears ago. And if one considers
every expense that the student
pays from September to May, it is
costing the average W&L man
close to $5,000 a year for his col-
lege education.

In the academic year of 1960-61,
tuition costs at Washington and
Lee were set at $750 and the col-
lege estimated that the average
costs for two semesters at W&L
that year would be approximately
$1,750. Just 10 years later in the
academic year 1970-71, tuition had
nearly tripled at $2,000 and the
average expenditure for the stu-
dent had soared to $3,100.

A well-known television adver-
tisement states that college tui-
tion pays only one-third the cost
of a college education. This fact is
rue for public universities and
colleges, but doesn’t apply to pri-
vate institutions such as W&L.
Schools like the University of
Virginia receive state aid and are

W&L Tuition from 1960 to 1974

Year Tuition
10666). ee 9 St es $ 750
90g es ea $ 750
a SS ee a $ 850
a 7 es $1,000
SS $1,100
| Ce CE=g = ee $1,300
ee SS SS , eS $1,400
1067 0S oS] Ss Ss $1,600
a SS $1,800
oe SC $1,900
tore . SS. Ss a $2,000
IO SS ss as Ss $2,200
ee = > $2,300
Ss SS $2,500
ee SS $2,600

therefore subjected to some state
regulation, but W&L must find its
aid from other sources. These
“other sources” are the funds
from the alumni and various en-
dowments which pay about 40%
of the W&L student’s education.
Tuition at W&L pays about 60%
of the cost.

“The schools that are in real
trouble”, explains Mr. James
Whitehead, W&L’s business man-
ager, “are the ones in which col-
lege tuition pays about 90% of
the cost of education, because if
a couple of students decide not to
show up in the fall, then the
school’s budget has been slashed
drastically. A private institution
must depend largely on gifts from
their alumni.”

At Davidson College in North
Carolina where a 28.2% increase
in tuition has occurred in the past
four years, college tuition pays
about 57% of the student’s edu-
cation. “I would like to see W&L’s
tuition cover only 50% of a stu-
dent’s education with the other
50% being covered by alumni and
endowments,” said Mr. White-
head.

While W&L has not been forced
to “go public” like many other in-
stitutions have had to, the school
is depending on a stability of in-
come that is just “keeping them
up” with the cost of living. This
financial stability is witnessed by
no drastic fluctuation of students
through the years and by an in-
crease in giving and endowments.
In 1960 when the W&L student
was paying $750 tuition, the
school had an operating budget
of $2 million. In the year 1972,
the tuition showed a three fold
increase from 1960 along with a
three fold increase in the Univer-
sity’s operating costs also, demon-
strating that the school is “just
keeping up with the cost of liv-
ing.”

Another increasing cost on the

Dry Cleaning

Linen Service

WE DELIVER

UNIVERSITY
CLEANERS

Reliable Service In

Storage & Free Moth Proofing

Shirts Laundered

Clothing Repair

463-3622

incr. % of
since
Year 65-66 70-71 71-2 72-3 734 70-1 incr,
ge $1050 1895 2130 2815 2430 $535 28.2%
eS 5 7s Ss $1237 2100 2130 2450 2600 $500 23.8%
ee $1200 1800 2000 2000 2225 $425 23.6%
Peinetten |. 8 Si $1970 2500 2800 3050 3300 $800 32 %
Southwestern
a $1200 1700 1800 1900 2000 $300 17.6%
University of
2 ee $1570 1995 2200 2200 2200 $205 10.2%
Wake Peres 222. is $—— 1700 1900 1900 2000 $300 17.6%
a $1750 2350 2450 2700 2930 $580 24.7%
Washington and Lee .... $1300 2000 2200 2300 2500 $500 25 %

University is that of financial aid.
A student who received financial
aid in 1970-71 needs 25% more aid
to go to W&L in 1973-74. The Uni-
versity supplies this additional
aid.

Will Washington and Lee have
to go public in the future? Mr.
James Whitehead doesn’t believe
so: “We’re getting almost adequate
support at the present, but to
keep up with living costs, our
giving must increase.”

A look at the accompanying
chart illustrates that W&L is not
alone in the increase of tuition.
The Princeton student has seen a
32% increase in the past four
years while the Baptist-supported
Wake Forest has had only a 17.6%
increase. These figures are tuition
and fees only, and do not include
additional costs such as meals,
laundry, fraternities, and the like.

No school has been able to cut
tuition costs in the past five
vears,

Since 1960, Washington and
Lee’s tuition has jumped from
$750 to the present $2,500. In only
one year, from 1961-62, was there
not an increase by at least $100
in the tuition fee, and in many
years there was a $200 hike in-
crease.

What can students expect in
the future? As long as it keeps
costing professors more to live, as
it keeps costing more for main-
tenance people to provide for
their families, and as long as
books for the library and myriads
of other research material in-
creases steadily in costs, then so
W&L’s tuition will rise also. Un-
fortunately, the W&L student has
to be taught by others and their
time needs money.

Washingion and Lee University

Boukstore

The Tools of Your Trade
Rogets Thesaurus in Dictionary Form

Hlements of Style

A Manual for Writers of Term Papers

American Heritage Dictionary

—Lewis

—Strunk and White

—Turabin
Page 4

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

Contributions continue
for development program

The development program an-
nounced on February 22, 1972,
has been able to raise 61.1% of its
goal for 1976. The campaign is
divided into two phases, the sec-
ond to be accomplished by 1979.

As of September 30, 1973, $22,-
007,868 has been given toward
the Phase I goal of $36,000,000.
Already more than $399,000 has
been donated toward the second
phase of the drive. Ultimately the
schoo! hopes to receive $56,000,-
000 by the end of Phase II in
1979.

The money pledged to capital
improvements for Washington
and Lee is being used in many
ways. From such gifts three new
buildings are being financed:
Lewis Hall, a new undergraduate
library, and the completed addi-
tion to Doremus Gymnasium.
The program also seeks funds to
enlarge the school’s endowment.
The Phase I goal for endowment
contributions is $12,000,000 of
which almost 40% has been given.
By 1979 twenty-four million is to
be added to the endowment from
both phases of the program.

The program is only partially
devoted to Physical expansion of
the campus’ facilities. In fact the
Development Office hopes to raise
one dolar for the endowment
and supplementary income for
each dollar pledged toward build-
ing.

‘The Damned’
to be presented
this weekend

Luchino Visconti’s “The Damn-
ed” will be presented by the Film
Committee of the Student Activi-
ties Board Friday and Saturday in
duPont Auditorium at 7 and 9

(Continued on page 8)

Thus far the campaign has pro-
gressed well and several specific
have been reached. At a
snigle blow Mr. and Mrs. Sydney
Lewis financed the law school
and a special endowment for it of
$2,000,000. The goals for current
gifts toawrd the annual support
of the institution is over two-
thirds realized with $2,374,356
having been contributed by Sep-
tember 30, 1973.

goals

The gymnasium is completed
but is only 40% paid for at the
present time. Toward the new li-
brary about 35% of the money
needed has been received. The
remainder must be pledged or
given by late this summer for the
building to begin on schedule.

In the first year of the fund
raising campaign well over 50%
of the 1976 goal of $36,000,000 was
accomplished. Most of this has
come in commitments of large
sums of money. To date three con-
tributions of over a million have
been accepted. Twenty-six gifts in
excess of $100,000 and eighty-two
of $10,000 or over have added
much of the remainder. At this
point large gifts are still being
sought first while the drive for
smaller donations has not really
gotten into full swing.

The director of the overall ef-
fort is John M. Stemmons of Dal-
las, Texas. Mr. Stemmons is a
trustee and chairman of the A-
chievement Council which con-
sists of thirty-eight volunteers,
mosly alumni. The council is di-
vided into committees which con-
cenrate on different groups of po-
tential donors, i.e. alumni, par-
ents, foundations, and corpora-
tions.

Many alumni have answered to
the call for aid in this effort with
over two hundred _ volunteers
working in the program. The
friends of the university have re-
sponded enthusiastically thus far
but there is still a long way to go.

: FOR YOUR EXTRA PIECES OF FURNITURE
: Varner & Pole

115 Main St.

121 W. Nelson

Need Extra Cash

STUDENT LOANS AVAILABLE
NO AGE RESTRICTION

PEOPLES Finance Service

OF LEXINGTON

Lexington, Va.

 
 

Phone 463-3176

$

Thursday, November 8,

The Washington and Lee Stage Band performed in a concert last

1973

 

Friday night in Lee Chapel as a part of Parents’ Weekend activi-

ties,

Twain’s ‘Diary of Adam and Eve

—Photo by Bill Robinson

3

scheduled tonight in Lee Chapel

The Student Activities Board
will present “The Diary of Adam
and Eve” tonight in Lee Chapel at
8 p.m. The play is a musical-
comedy adaptation of Mark
Twain’s short story of the same
name.

This evening’s performance is
by the Alpha-Omega players, a

 

East Lexington
Grocery

Beer — Ice — Gas
Party Supplies — Snacks

Open 7 days a week
ABC No, 2078—8 a.m.-10 p.m.
SHOP FOR SUNDAY
EVENING DINNER
We Sell & Deliver Kegs

 

  
   
   
   
   

 

 

 

ate ate te ate ale the he le che ca ce 2.
-— ss se 8 See

Seeded

has special checking accounts for students

 

traveling theatre from

Dallas.

troupe

The production deals with the
first battle in the never-endinz
war between men and women.

Tickets are 75 cents in advance,
available in the W&L bookstore,
and $1 at the door.

Paul’s Bike Shop

11 N. New St., Staunton
Phone 886-1310
PAUL Now Accepting All
BIKE REPAIRS at
Sears’ Lexington Store
Pick-Up Every Wednesday
Returned On Wednesday.
Also New 10 Speeds Batavus

e Bikes For Sale.

Heo eee eee steoteoeleetentesteteoefeoenteofnfnfnfentesteteoofoferteoofededededeotefetededeobtodetest

The First National Bank ;

of Lexington

He He Me Me™ *,
‘et 4s bd Aad %¢ »} %?

Seite hee:

 

tg

 

 

 

StU DENTS!

Make this your headquarters for Good Food

and Service

We have meal tickets at savings to you

SOUTHERN INN

>

 

 

 

 

 
Thursday,

November 8, 1973

THE RING-TUM PHI

Page 5

 

24 hour marathon to begin Friday
tor benefit of United Way campaign

A 24-hour marathon relay for
the benefit of the United Fund
‘ill begin Friday on the Wash-
inarton and Lee track and con-
tinue through the night until Sat-

WLUR program log

7-9 a.m.—Morning Show, Mon-
day thru Friday.

Off the air at 9 until 3 p.m.

3-) p.m.—Afternoon Show, Mon-
day through Friday.

5-6 p.m.—WLUR takes a look
(featuring one group or _per-
former during the hour, Monday
thru Thursday; Perspective, one
hour news special, Friday.

6-) p.m.—Classical Showcase.
On Wednesdays from 8:30 to 9
p.m.—Radio Theatre featuring a
program written and acted out by
-tudents.

9-10 p.m.—Firing Line, Monday;
Bookbeat and a program to be
announced, Tuesady; All Things
Considered and Jazz Revisited,
Wednesday; options on Thursday,
Folk musie and Bernstein, Friday.

10:10:30 p.m—Home _ Edition
news, Monday thru Friday.

10:30 to 11 pm.—lIt’s Your Af-
fair, Monday; Billy Gabriel's
Music, Tuesday; Radio Smithson-
ian, Wednesday; Appalachian
\lusic, Thursday; Perspective, Fri-
dav.

11-11:15

p.m.—News, Monday

urday.

Per-mile pledges for the United
Fund are still accepted by Ken
Lane at the University Center.
Persons may fill out the pledge

thru Friday.

11:15 p.m.-1 a.m.—Third Ear,
Monday thru Friday. On Friday
until 2 a.m.

News reports every hour, 7
a.m. to 6 p.m. 15 minutes before
the hour. Bulletin Board every
quarter hour.

Saturday: 7-10 a.m.—Morning
Show; 10-10:45 a.m.—Playback of
the top 15 songs of a particular
vear; aor 11 a.m.—news; 11 a.m.-
1 or 2 p.m.—Oldies Authority; 1-2
p.m. until 5:45 p.m.—We&L Foot-
ball or opera; 5:45-6:10 p.m.—news
and sports; 6:10-10 p.m.—Rock
Opera; 10 p.m.-2 a.m.—Third Ear.

Sunday: 3-4:30 p.m.—Concert in
the Park (light classical); 4:30-5
p.m.—Course of our Times; 5-5:30
p.m.—On the Path to Higher Con-
sciousness; 5:30-5:45 p.m.—Church
Today; 5:45-6 p.m.—news; 6-7 p.m.
—Composer’s Forum; 7-8 p.m.
Stradivari String Quartet; 8-9 p.m.
—Rothgard Schickel (classical
music); 9-10 p.m. — Teleman
music from the age of Teleman);
10-10:15  p.m.—news; 10:15 p.m.-
12:30 a.m.—Third Ear.

Fellowship of Christian Athletes

artist to present feature series

Bill Leach, former Hollywood
artist and currently the national
artist for the Fellowship of Chris-
tian Athletes, will present a spec-
ial three-night feature series en-
titled “Art in Action” at Washing-
tm & Lee Novy, 11-13.

Under the sponsorship of the

Notice

Persons interested in playing
in the W&L Pep Band at pep ral-
lies and other athletic events
should report to the band room in
the University Center at 6:15 p.m.
on Wednesdays.

Tei?

Celebration
Thursday in the
Cockpit

5-6 p.m.

university chapter of the Fellow-
ship of Christian Athletes, Leach
will give his presentation of art
and sound in the Lee Chapel 7:30
p.m. to 8:30 p.m. Sunday, Monday
and Tuesday.

Typical drawings by the artist
include “The Crucifixion,” a por-
trayal of Calvary simulated in
color news coverage of the event;
“Christ of the Universe,” a black
light feature in vapors and chalks
depicting a lunar landing and the
earth as seen from the moon; and
“The Resurrection,” a _ series
showing the betrayal, trial, cruci-
fixion and resurrection of Christ.

 

Wendell’s
Barber Shop

OPEN 9-6

9 South Jefferson

Closed Wednesday

 

elsewhere on this page.

In the marathon, one of 10 W&L
runners will always be running
around the track, with each man
running a mile before handing of
to the next runner. The group
hopes to cover at least 175 miles
during the 24-hour period.

United Fund money will go di-

rectly to use in Rockbridge Coun-
tv and Lexington.

The runners of the marathon
said they would welcome any en-
couragement during the run.

Oranges, gatorade, and other
thirst-quenchers would be wel-

comed by the group during the
un, a spokesman said.

 

Name:

Mailing

Address:

Money Per Mile

 

Pledge to UNITED FUND

en

 

 

Clayton Fritchey to Speak
on the Executive Monday

Clayton Fritchey, the journalist
and syndicated columnist, will be
the first Senior Fellow to visit
Washington and Lee University
under the newly inaugurated pro-
gram sponsored by the Woodrow
Wilson Foundation of Princeton,
N.J.

Fritchey will be in residence at
Washington and Lee from Nov.
12 through 15, visiting informally
with students and faculty mem-
bers, speaking to classes, and de-
livering a public lecture on the
presidency Monday evening.

A Pulitzer Prize-winning report-
er for the Cleveland Press, Frit-
chey has also been editor of the
New Orleans Item, and has serv-
ed in a variety of governmental!

posts. He has been active in De-
mocratic party politics.
His Monday evening lecture,

“Perspectives on the Presidency,”

jiuly Ola,

™e a aa et

   
  
 

i -

is scheduled for 7:30 p.m. in du-
Pont Auditorium, The public is
invited to attend.

The Woodrow Wilson Senior
Fellow program, established by a
gift from the Lilly Foundation of
Indianapolis, is designed to per-
mit businessmen, politicians and
others who have achieved promi-
nence outside the academic world
to visit college campuses for per-
iods of a week or so. Washington
and Lee is one of 59 American
institutions designated to partici-
pate in the new program.

 

KEYDET-GENERAL
RESTAURANT

Complete Facilities For

_ Banquets, Weddings & Receptions
POR RESERVATIONS PHONE to
eet Pte’ Milo West oft Cxaitoman lS. oo oh

Hamric and Sheridan
JEWELERS
Watch and Jewelry Repair
Hand Engraving & Class Rings
463-2022

 

 

  
 
    

AND
“Moret

hee baat

=
j Superb Pvsveseege ten ct

Pictore Napute Vinosphere
a Dcneacd tse ebng

He PeadeCrom ot Verve

f
snes al
Page 6

Teams representing the Law
School and the faculty have won
the initial championships of the
1973 Washington and Lee Intra-
mural season.

The Law School captured the
football title, downing Delta Tau
Delta in the finals, 6-0. The fac-
ultvy took the tennis crown by

THE RING-TUM PHI

beating Beta Theta Pi in the final
round, three matches to none.

The “legal-eagles” took back the
gridiron title which they had lost
to the Delta last year (DTD beat
Sigma Chi in last vear’s cham-
pionship tilt).

The game’s only score came in
the first half. After a John Lallev

Thursday, November 8, 1973

Faculty captures IM tennis title, Law School wins in IM football

pass had been intercepted, Law
moved down to the Delt five yard
line.

From there quarterback Bob
Weiss tossed a touchdown pass,
starting and ending the day’s
scoring.

The Delts had an_ excellent
chance to score late in the game,

as a Law punt snap went awry
and was blown dead on the six
vard line.

However the Law defense rose
to the occasion, picking off its
third interception of the day, and
ending the Delts hopes for a win,

Meanwhile, on the tennis courts,

(Continued on page 8)

 

 

fo, Fandhook of Oleep \
Matholony

Did you know that:

 
 

_. . Jason stole the Golden Fleece ------°--*°
from Pres Brown's?

oa ww » Gerberus guards the door ig «+*******”
Washington Hall?

_ Mars will not fight
you in enrolling in the first couple or ;
three ROTG courses at WUL without assuming
an irrevocable commitment to the Army?

Atlas holds the world -------°°*°*"
by the tail?

The Oracle of Delphi need not be con- ,
sulted about the Army? A one credit course
called MS-I has Army people to tell you
about the Army (CPT Bob Busch).

_ Zeus’ home is on - - -
Providence Hill?

King Midas’ touch made ----«*-*°****
the Army Second Lieutenant's annual pay
over $9,000?

The Breek’s did this better?

Come see us anyway at the Military Science
Building for information, coffee, or
conversation.

 
THE RING-TUM PHI

Thursday, November 8, 1973

Madison defeats

booters by 3-1

By BILL AUSTIN

In a pivotal meeting with Madi-
son College last Thursday, the
W&L soccer team had its hopes
for a post-season tournament
berth erased. Madison prevailed,
3-1, in the evenly-played contest,
saddling the Generals with their
third defeat of the season.

Both teams were hampered by
strong wind rendering consistent
passing vulnerable to. erratic
gusts. Despite the difficulty posed
by nature, W&L put together a
generally strong effort, keyed by
the outstanding performance of
Paul Devine as goalie. Unfortun-
ately, the game was lost at the
half-back positions, where Madi-
son players demonstrated a tell-
ing superiority in controlling the
offensive tempo of attack.

Madison held a 1-0 half-time
bulge, and widened its lead to 3-0
before the Generals’ John Embry
managed an unassisted score to
tighten the battle. Madison’s goals
did not come easily, but were the
results of two deflections and a
penalty shot. Indeed, both squads
had 16 shots on goal, and the
Wé&L_ attack muffed several
chances to score in situations of
real opportunity. Risking an apo-
logetic tone, it must be said that
the outcome could have been
quite different, barring a few un-
timely breaks.

The team’s schedule gets no
less demanding with a foe such
as Navy on tap for the season
wrap-up of Saturday, November
17, a home game to be played at
2 p.m. Wilson Field will serve as
converted soccer turf, providing
a more suitable setting for the
display of the two talented
squads.

Quote of the week

Q.—What time is it?
A—I can’t tell you what time it
ic; my watch is 10 minutes fast.

Harriers bow
to Mennonite

In its last regular meet of the
1973 fall season, the Washington
and Lee University cross-country
team succumbed to Eastern Men-
nonite College by the score of 20-
35. The defeat, suffered only three
davs after the fourth place finish
in the Virginia College Athletic
Association’s state meet, was the
sixth of the year for the squad
However, the win-total of eight
represents a fine achievement for
a team not without its share of
nagging injuries from the sea-
son's outset.

The top W&L finisLer in the
recent loss was Tem Washington.
He placed third individually with
a time of 27:31 over the five-mile
EMC course.

 

Oops. There’s a mad rush for the football in last we ekend’s 13-7 loss to Southwestern,

his Saturday

 

W&L invades Denison of Ohio. Last year, Denison won on Wilson Field, 52-22.

—Photo by Bill Robinson

W&L loses fifth straight

By BILL FLESHER

Rick Fulwood is a sophomore
at Southwestern University at
Memphis .

He stands only five foot nine,
and weighs but 160 pounds.

He plays offensive halfback for
Southwestern’s football team.

For a guy that size he’s a hell-
uva good football player.

Fulwood carried the ball an
amazing 47 times last Saturday,
good for 162 yards. Along with
quarterback Mike Hanna, Ful-
wood led the Lynx to a 13-6 win
over Washington and Lee’s Gen-
erals in front of a Parents’ Day
crowd at Wilson Field last Sat-
urday.

The loss, the fifth straight for
WE&L this year, was a great dis-
appointment for the Generals in
that they could have won the
game just as easily as they lost
it.

The W&L offense moved the
ball well, but could put it in the
end zone just once. And the Gen-
erals’ defense, led by Rick Kulp,
co-captain Bill Wallace, and Steve
VanAmburgh, who was in on 19
tackles, time and time again turn-
ed in the big play when needed.

But it simply was not to be
the Generals’ day.

After a scoreless first quarter,
the Lynx took a 7-0 lead midway
through the second period on a
two vard run by Hanna.

The touchdown was set up
when Phil Mulkey picked off a
Jack Berry pass and returned it
to the W&L 42.

Southwestern then took seven
plays to get into the end zone, the
biggest of them a 15 yard penalty
against the Generals for unneces-
sary roughness.

WE&L put on a march toward
the end of the half, which died

at the Lynx 25 when Berry, on
the last play of the first half,
threw another interception, this
time to linebacker Phil Brantley.

The Generals took the second
half kickoff and put together two
drives to get on the board.

Impossible, you say.

To an extent, yes.

The Generals could not pick up
a first down on the possession im-
mediately after the kickoff. End
of drive one.

Doug Chase then kicked it away.
Southwestern’s Conrad Bradburn
took the punt, returned it eleven
yards, and fumbled.

W&L offensive tackle Sal Ab-
bruzzese was on top of the ball
when everyone unpiled. Start of
drive two,

The Generals went 43 yards in
seven plays, with Bob Lindsey
going in for the score from the
one. Twenty-four of those yards
came on a Jim Farrar run, the
longest run from scrimmage by
any W&L back this year.

However Ralph Moore’s_ kick
was wide, and the Generals trail-
ed 7-6.

After a short kickoff attempt
by More backfired (Tommy Sims
returned it to the W&L 483),
Southwestern marched in for its
second touchdown—make _ that
Fulwood marched for the second
touchdown .

Out of 14 plays that made up
the drive Fulwood carried the ball
on 13 of them. The only play on
which Fulwood did not get his
hands on the pigskin was a key
one in the drive—a fourth and
four play on which Hanna hit
Andy Chunn for six yards and a
first down.

Fulwood, after all his efforts,
deserved the touchdown. He got
it from one yard out. The extra

point attempt hit he upright, so
it was Southwestern 13, W&L 6.

After the kickoff, W&L moved
the ball to the Southwestern 23.
The drive stalled there, so Moore
was called on to attempt a 40-yard
field goal.

=O good. Long
wide to the right.

That would be as close as W&L
would come to getting a second
score the rest of the game.

With about four minutes left
the W&L defense put the Lynx in
a deep hole, forcing them to kick
on fourth and 30 from the 10.

The Generals sent men in on
the rush, hoping for a block.

Chunn, who handled Southwes-
tern’s punting, got a great kick
away under the pressure—a much
better kick than expected by
safetyman Mike Brittin.

Brittin did the right thing by
signaling for the fair catch.

He might have done two wrong
things by trying to catch a kick
that was sailing over his head.

Southwestern recovered, and
ran out most of the clock before
giving the ball back to W&L.

When the Generals got it back
they had a long way—93 yards to
be exact—and not much time—
13 seconds—to go.

And soon after
record Was 2-0,

This week Washington and Lee
travels to Granville, Ohio to take
on the Big Red of Denison Uni-
versity.

Last year, in Lexington, Deni-
son romped 52-22. This year, how-
ever, as are the Generals, they’re
having problems winning. Going
into last week’s action, Denison’s
reeord stood at 2-5.

That game begins at 1:30 Sat-
urday. WLUR will broadcast the
game live beginning at 1:20 p.m.

enough, but

the Generals’
THE RING-TUM PHI

 

gett

 

Your Happy Shopping Store

 

 

 

 

non-slip
sole.

DOCKSIDERS

Grab a pair of Sebago Docksiders when you're fitting
out. The construction is rugged. The design is
sound. Sebago, with years of experience making
boating moccasins, engineered a combination of the
finest materials into a super deck shoe. Then tested
it in the 1970 Bermuda Cup Race. Results: remark-

able performance.

Examine the elk tanned cowhide upper. Built to re-
sist salt, perspiration, mildew. Test the white rubber,
sure-grip, non-slip sole. Either ashore or afloat, this
sole tread refuses to pick up san dor pebbles, Won't
scratch brightwork or canvas deck. Lay hold of the
rawhide lacings. Size up the salt-resistant, nylon and
dacron stitching throughout.

Docksiders mean quality. Quality that’s handsewn by
Yankee craftsmen. Others try to imitate. Docksiders
are built to refute imitation — and they cost less.

Thursday, November 8, 1973

SAB presents 2 flicks

(Continued from page 4)

p.m. each night. Admission is $1.

In 1968, when Visconti was in
New York to direct “The Marriage
of Figaro” at the Metropolitan
Opera House, he observed, “I
have the impression that the fer-
ment among young people in the
United States is more sincere than
perhaps it is elsewhere. Here the

 

R/C Theatres
Regal Cinema Fare
in Lexington

State Theatre

12-14 W. Nelson St. 463-3424

NOW SHOWING

Night Watch

SUN.-MON.-TUES,

The Harrad

Experiment

Lyric Cinema

135 S$. Main St. 463-3543

Thru SATURDAY

O Lucky Man

1 Show each evening
at 8:00 p.m.

Sun. - Mon, - Tues.

Slaughter’s Big
Rip-Off

 

concrete protest against the war
in Vietnam is one I can under-
stand. I feel that protest can be
both beneficial and necessary un-
der certain conditions.”

“T am making ‘The Damned’
for the generations who do not
know what Nazism was like,” the
director said. In pointing the fin-
ger of responsibility at German
industrialists who helped create
the madness of the Second World
War by backing Hitler with vital
arms, Visconti points out, “The
young people must understand
that it is the absence of protest
that constitutes the blackest evil
in my drama.”

For their weekly “Film Classics”
selection, the W&L Film Commit-
tee have selected the Sidney Lu-
met film of Anton Chekhov’s The
Sea Gull. The film, which stars
James Mason and Vanessa Red:
grave, is extremely faithful to
Chekhov's classic drama of a
group of wealthy 19th century
Russians who are plagued by
frustrations, unrequited loves and
failed ambitions. The Sea Gull
will be shown in duPont Audi-
torium at 7:00 p.m. Tuesday, No-
vember 15. Admission is free.

Faculty wins in tennis

(Continued from page 6)
the faculty had a relatively easy
time winning their second con-
secutive tennis title.

Dr. John Winfrey (Economics),
in the closest match in the finals,
downed Dave Walker in first sin-
gles 10-8; Bill Washburn (alumni
Office) beat Bill Kientz in second
singles 10-3; and the doubles team
og Drs. Edward Pinney (Politics)
and Minor Rogers (Religion) won
over Bill Adams and Harry Wall
10-5,

CLASSIFIED
Student waiters needed for ban.
quet Friday night in Evans Din.
ing hall. No experience necessary.
See Mr. Darrell or Thomas AlI-
phin, student manager.

 

SLICK TIRES

POPULAR SIZES

— 60 Series
— Radials

LET US RETREAD YOUR

WE RETREAD MOST ALL

— Small & Large Truck Tires

LADIES—$18.00
MENS—S$21.00

Downtown
Lexington, Va.
463-3111

by SEBAGO

Open Daily 9:30-5:30
Friday Nite Til 8:30
Saturday 9:30-5:30

Also New Good Year Winter Tives

THOMPSON TIRE (0., Ine.

GOOD YEAR
2720 Peach Ave- — Buena Vista. Va.

CALL 261-7431

 

 

 

 
THE RING-TUM PHI

Washington and Lee University’s Weekly Newspaper
LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA, NOVEMBER 15, 1973

Vol. LXXITII

 

|

Diiteeincinni

Gerald Wright

Gerald J. Wright, 29, of Pen-
sacola, Fla. a first-year law
student at Washington and Lee,
died Sunday evening at his
home in Davidson Park.

An autopsy was performed
and death was attributed to a
heart attack according to a
county medical examiner.

Wright was born April 23,
1944, in Kansas City, Kan., and
he attended high school in In-
dependence, Mo. He served in
the Marine Corps from 1962 to
1968, specializing in combat in-
telligence.

He received his B.A. degree
with honors in psychology from
the University of West Florida
in 1972.

Wright was married to the
former Cheri Deardorff. They
had no children.

 

 

EC finances
chess tourney

By ROBERT PUGH

Ho hum! Yawn! The EC had its
shortest and most routine meet-
ing so far Monday night.

Dennis Oakley of the Chess
Club asked the EC to make up
any deficit in next March’s chess
tourney. He expected a profit and
added that the EC would lose at
most $200. The cash would be
used as prize money. After a len-
gthy debate, sophomore EC rep
Leland McCullough’s motion to all
W&L students. He also expects
many students from other colleges
to attend.

Student Body Vice President
Steve Greene said that last week’s
alumni conference was a great
success. The alumni especially
enjoyed the informal Friday after-
noon session, in which groups of
students and alumni met to dis-
cuss any topics of interest. The
discussion was very freewheeling
and encompassed a wide variety
of subjects.

| An Analysis—

Number 9

Energy crisis to affect
even remote Lexington

By JOHN MULLIKEN

The energy crisis may seem
pretty remote to us in Lexington,
but we may soon feel the harsh
realities of this fuel shortage. The
City Council met last Monday in
special session to consider the
problem. The Council unanim-
ously passed a resolution to sup-
port the President’s guidelines
and to encourage the citizens to
do the same. While this action
may not seem like much, it in-
volves setting thermostats at 68,
turning off lights, and driving at
50; the problem is real.

Just how the crisis will effect
Lexington and the Washington
and Lee community depends on
three major factors: the weather,
the Arab embargo on oil, and the
ability of our oil refineries to
operate at maximum capacity.
The last is the most remote. Our
refineries have been operating at
near maximum capacity for some-
time now. Whether the machines
can hold up at this pace is a ques-
tion mark. No new refineries will
be in operation in the U.S. before
1975.

The weather is a more serious
problem. The optimistic catch-
phrase is “if we have a mild win-
ter.” If we don’t have a bad win-
ter, the energy crisis might not
be too much worse than last sum-
mer,

Despite an occasional incon-
venience and higher prices, we'd
be able to get gas and fuel most
of the time. However, if the Arab
embargo isn’t lifted soon, we'll
probably see gasoline rationing
before the end of the year. Mean-
while we should expect difficulty
buying gasoline at the end of each
month,

In fact, K. D. Moore said at the
meeting of the County Board of
Supervisors last Monday morn-

ing that Lexington will experi-
ence a severe shortage of gasoline
between Nov. 20 and Dec. 1. John
Love, White House energy chief
says in this same period, the na-
tion will experience an additional
shortage as the last tanker of
Arab oil, loaded before the em-
bargo, will have arrived. Stu-
dents returning from Thanksgiv-
ing vacation should expect to
have trouble buying gas, especi-
ally along major highways.

Whether or not the Arab em-
bargo continues, there is still a
strong possibility of rationing, or
its alternative—a heavy tax on
gasoline. Such a tax would run
from 10 to 50 cents a gallon (gas
costs $1.35 a gallon in Italy). Also
the President may ban pleasure
and non-essential driving. The ef-
fect would severely change the
driving habits of much of the
We&L community. Road trips may
soon become rare, and expensive.
Driving up “on the hill” may
soon be impractical, and students
living on farms may be looking
for intown apartments.

But what if we have a bad win-
ter? The outlook is dim. Ration-
ing or heavy taxes on gasoline
will be unavoidable. Driving will
‘be restricted to essential use only.
Heat oil fuel will be rationed also,
and depending on the severity of
the situation, a number of Lex-
ington homes will be cold.

If fuel oil becomes too scarce
we will probably experience an
increase in demand for electric
heaters. However, too many elec-
tric heaters could bring about
brown-outs similar to last summer
as we consume more electricity
than we can produce. Since oil
and gas heaters depend on elec-
tric blowers to distribute heat, a
brown-out could leave an entire
city without heat. For this rea-

Man still sought in dorm thefts

There have been no major de-
velopments in the solving of the
freshmen dorm burglaries nor in
the Law Dorm break-in case.

Two men, Craig R. Nelson and
Robert George Conway, were ar-
rested on Nov. 4 and charged with
breaking and entering in Baker
Dormitory. One of the men was
released on bond last week; the

second is still being held in the
city jail. A preliminary hearing
on the case has been tentatively
set for Nov. 20.

A third suspect is still being
sought for questioning in regard
to the matter. It is believed that
this person, evidently a student
at W&L, left town soon after the
incident last ewek.

In connection with the thefts in
the Old Dorm, no positive evi-
dence has been uncovered to link
them with the arrested men. A
search of one possible location of
stolen articles did not produce
any of the missing items. Efforts
are continuing to be made by the
University Proctor, however, to
recover the stolen goods and catch
the thief or thieves.

son, the sale of electric heaters
might have to be restricted or
banned.

Even if Lexington has a mild
winter, we face the possibility
of some or all of the previously
mentioned hardships, as Presi-
dent Nixon will be moving fuel
supplies into hard hit areas. The
mid-west is particularly important
because the cattle industry re-
quires propane to dry feed crops.
If that area is hard hit, we could.
see another beef shortage again
next year.

Airlines will continue to cut
flights. That could mean that a
sizable portion of the student
body could get stuck in Lexing-
ton for winter and spring vaca-
tions, especially if gasoline is be-
ing rationed. With or without ra-
tioning, gasoline prices should hit
50 cents a gallon this winter.

However far away the energy
crisis may seem, it will be very
real verv soon,

Brock: reform
in government

By TIM MOORE

In alleviating pressure on the
executive branch, Tennessee sena-
tor Bill Brock emphasized the
necessity of congressional reform
and the inevitability of campaign
law reform in an informal speech
given this past Monday night.

Speaking to a scant gathering
of W&L students, Brock said that
Congress has “the most incredible
non-budgeting system you've ever
seen in your life.” Brock, who is
chairman of the National Repub-
lican Senatorial Committee, said
that there is no structure for
Congress to have a re-evaluation
of their work which is “so despar-
ately needed.”

Touching upon three areas
of this matter, Brock first
said that the existence of

huge, unreported sums of cash
must be eliminated. Secondly,
Brock said the government was
suffering from inadequate law
enforcement in these areas, and
finally, that congressional know!}-
edge of the subject doesn't “deal!
with the fundamental problem.”

Senator Brock entertained ques-
tions from the 70-odd students
that were present and then went
to a nearby lounge for discussion.
Page 2

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

‘Somebody got screwed up’

“You going to the lecture tonight?”

“Which one?”

“You know—Sen. Bill Brock. There were posters all over campus.
Monday, Nov. 12, at 9 p.m. in Lee Chapel.”

“No, I’m not going to that one. I was thinking of seeing the flick,
Gaslight, in Reid Hall at 7 p.m. and then listening to David Slavitt talk
about the film at 9. But if I do that, then I can’t see Clayton Fritchey
at 7:30 in duPont. I wonder why they stuck him in duPont. That place
is so small. I imagine it’ll be packed.”

“Oh does he speak at 7:30? If I go see that, then I’ll miss Bill Leach
in Lee Chapel at 7:30. I’d like to see them all. I wonder why they
scheduled all of them on the same day?”

“T don’t know. I thought the Student Activities Board was sup-
posed to coordinate everything going on around this place. Some-
body got screwed up.”

“Well, I could see where it could happen. The College Rpublicans
brought in Brock, the Fellowship of Christian Athletes brought Leach,
the J-school brought Slavitt, and Fritchey came here in conjunction
with some lecture program.”

“Yeah, but still somebody should have tried to coordinate things a
bit. The same thing happened last year when Contact, Black Culture
Week, and the Glasgow Endowment program were all bunched to-
gether. In fact, that’s why the SAB was formed.”

“Well, how about it? What lecture are you going to?”

“I’m not sure which one I want to watch now. I guess I'll bag
them all and watch Monday night football instead.”

Facing the energy crisis

It has now been one week since President Nixon has addressed the
nation on the energy crisis, and since that time various pieces of
legislation have been dutifully rushed through Congress and through
state governments to meet the President’s requests to avert an all-
out energy disaster.

And some are saying, “Yes, yes, this is good for the country. With
this plan we can all chip in and stop the energy crisis. The President
did the right thing.”

And some are saying, “Yeah, I’m all for conserving energy, but
why can’t I let the other guy drive at 50 miles per hour. Why does
this crisis have to affect me?”

And a few, a very few, are sitting back and saying simply, “I told
you so.”

Whether everyone complies with the flurry of legislation enacted
this past week to cope with the energy shortage is not the question.
The question is why haven’t we recognized this problem all along, so
that we could be moderately restricted in our energy usage instead
of encountering these “harsh,” as some call them, new controls over
our freedom to expend energy?

Why did it take a relatively short, relatively simple speech by the
Jeader of this nation to make us realize our ever-increasing energy
problem? Why didn’t we recognize the problem while we had a chance
to tackle it in its early stages, while we had a chance to impose energy
usage restrictions far milder than those which currently do and
presently will burden us?

Certainly the crisis at hand should come as no great surprise.
For literally years, we have been informed that the day will come—
and soon—when gas will have to be rationed, when heating fuel allot-
ment will be cut, when our freedom to use energy will be limited.

But no one listened. Nobody really believed that the time would
ever come in the United States when gas would cost over a dollar a
gallon, or would be rationed. Everyone sat back in the 75 degree en-
vironment of his living room, with three lights, the television, the
stereo, the air conditioner and humidifier, the kid’s Aurora race track
set, and dad’s vibrating easy chair all operating at once. Everyone sat
back and said, “Why should there ever be a real energy crisis? We’ve
got all the energy we need.”

And now, the crisis is upon us. But for most persons, the crisis
seems not to be that we are facing a severe energy shortage. Indeed,
the crisis to the average person is that he won’t be able to speed down
Interstate 81 at 80 miles per hour, that he won’t be able to get enough
gas to drive to Aspen for a Christmas vacation ski trip, and that he
has to wear a sweater in the classroom instead of his W&L Country
Club tee-shirt.

And, with the speed of a light bulb turning on, the acknowledg-
ment that there is a crisis in the United States has been realized. And
we have no reason to complain, for we brought it upon ourselves,

At least one thing is assured: we won't be able to forget about
wasting energy for awhile. The crisis, if it is ever resolved, will never
sneak up on us again. For we will be thinking of it all the time—
while we coast along at 50 miles per hour on Interstate 81, while we
sit and contemplate an early evening sunset, brought to us later
than usual because daylight savings time has been permanently im-
posed, or while we ask the service station for our weekly ration of
gasoline.

—P.J.L.

 

Thursday, November 15, 1973

partment of Journalism
& Communieations
DAVID SLAVITT

| SERENE -
Sdoneay, Meow, be

vary, Boost Has

   

      

 

 

These posters call attention to three of four lecturers who were
on campus Monday night, causing a bit of confusion and conster-
nation among students. See adjacent editorial.

Editor’s note: Nov. 22 will mark
the tenth anniversary of Presi-
dent John F. Kennedy’s death.

By TIM MOORE

Looking back can never fully
be objective, but sometimes that
shouldn’t matter. Such times are
now, because a return may re-
mind us of the way it can be, an
idea needed so badly by a people
when drowning in the flood of
national crises. In our wintry time
of illusion, severed by bitter gusts
of anxiety, the American spirit
has been frozen like a tranquil
bond, shuddering. And we like to
think that his radiant presence,
his warm, appearance, would be
enough to thaw the cold accre-
tions, break down our frozen
blood, until these streams of life
are moving and flowering forth
again in a spring like fashion.

Jacqueline and JFK. They were
young and beautiful and Ameri-
cans. To millions of Americans
this White House couple was an
ideal. What we loved most about
them then is what we miss most
about them now: promise. And
an unfulfilled promise is like the
fish that we had on the line, but
got away.

He was young and made mis-
takes, and those he openly shared

with us. We remember the dis-
astrous Bay of Pigs and the bur-

—Photo by Charles Grubbs

JFK: 10 years later

den that he bore with it. His
vouthful courage in the face of
nuclear war only eighteen months
later stands like a monument to
those who realize it, and hardens
as leaders today fall beneath it.
He was as frank as his face to
face confrontations with Khru-
shehev, nd as war as the curious
schoolchildren’s questions, which
he wrote truly personal replies.

When his Sunday school clad
children rushed to meet his cop-
ter, led by little John in his pull-
ed up knee sox and white brim
cap, the leader became Father
and family became one. He loved
his young ones like any man
would and it was easy to forget
he was our President, and just
admire him as a father. We miss
John Kennedy and his love for
Irish songs and Gaelic poetry, his
natural and inseparable wit: they
would be energy and warmth for
us today, like a flaming torch in
a Winter blizzard.

In the words of James Reston,
“the heart of the Kennedy legend
is what might have been.” And in
the words of JFK in early 1961
speaking to the press: “This ad-
ministration intends to be frank
about its mistakes, and if we may
miss any, we want you to point
them out.”

Let us remember him. It may
give warmth to thaw our times.

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

 

The Ring-tum Phi is published on Thursdays during the college year.
It is printed by the Journalism Laboratory Press, Washington and Lee
University. The mailing address is Box 899, Lexington, Virginia 24450.
Entered as second class matter September 29, 1946, at the Post Office.
Lexington, Virginia 24450, under the act of March 3, 1879. Subscription
rates: $6.00 for the school year, $3.00 for the semester.

PAUL J. LANCASTER

ANDREW J. A. CHRISS
Editor-in-chief

Business Manager
Managing Editor
NN oy hk
Photography Editor

Jess Reeves
Bill Austin

hs eee ene Bill Robinson
pg SSS Palmer Trice, Robert Gurnee
SI hi ooh ss ss -David Lee
PE oo 5h 6 as sets Dave Finnell, John Killpack, Chuck Alt
Contributors

cae. Tim Moore, Steve Yevich, Tom Rittenburg,
Rome Scott, Vance Marlowe, Bill Flesher, Paul Morella

 
Thursday, November 15, 1973

Platter Chatter

Trios & Solos

By W. PATRICK HINELY
Trios & Solos
Ralph Towner with Glen Moore
ECM 1025 ST

When it comes down to it,
Ralph Towner may well be the
best guitarist around today. There
are many fine guitarists within
distinct musical genres, but what
Towner has over all of them is
breadth of style. He has all the
spiritual directness and energy of
John McLaughlin, but can also
play Brazilian, classical, straight
jazz, and he can even rock if he
wants to, though he doesn’t really
get off on pure body music. Tow-
ner also has a distinct sense of ab-
stract as well as lyrical beauty,
shown well in “Suite: 3x12,” a
group of three solos for 12-string
guitar on this album.

The album is made up of four
solos by Towner, one solo by bass-
ist Glen Moore, and four trios:
two with Paul McCandless on
oboe, one with Collin Walcott on
tabla, and a Bill Evans piece in
which Towner dubbed guitar over
his piano-bass duet with Moore.

The opening cut on side one,
“Brujo,” is the trio with Walcott
on tabla. This highly energetic
piece does conjure up images of
a Don Juan-type yaqui shaman,
much as Castaneda would prob-
ably do, if you can dig that.
(Read the books. .... ) Towner’s
guitar and Moore’s bass balance
one another almost perfectly; 10
vears of playing together is beau-
tifully obvious. Walcott on tabla
serves to accelerate the piece
even further.

Next comes “Winter Light,” a
Towner solo of great lyrical
beauty in which he may well be
paying dues to Baden Powell, the
great Brazilian guitarist. (more
about him in my next piece.)
“Noctuary” is a trio with Mc-
Candless on oboe; Moore is also
into bowing rather than plucking
his bass. It is an adventure in dis-
sonant harmonies, It is followed
by “1x12,” a Towner solo on 12-
string which explores the ground
he left untrodden in hi swork
with Paul Winter’s Consort and
Weather Report.

Closing out side 1 is “A Belt of
Asteroids,” Moore’s bass solo, The
beauty of this piece is not as obvi-
ous as the others; it lies in the
process of making the music rath-
er than exclusively in the content
of the finished product. Glen
Moore has been into true jazz (in
which the process is the content)
for a long time, and this is a fine
work in that tradition.

Side two opens with “Re: Per-

son I Knew,” the Evans piece.
Moore and Towner have both
studied piano with Bill Evans,

and the changes they lay on his
work are solid progressive im-
provements. This is by far the
most obviously beautiful cut of
the album. It started out as a duet
with Ralph on piano and Glen on
bass, but Towner’s dubbing of the
guitar adds some nice breadth
without really cluttering the
(Continued on page 5)

THE RING-TUM PHI

1)

Page

 

 

Tower of Power performs in last Friday’s concert in Doremus, along with Freddie King and Sylvester

and the Hot Band. Less than 800 attended the concert.

Inside-Out

ede

—Photo by Bill Robinson

Tower plays a powerful show

By ROME SCOTT
There are two sides to writing
about a concert—the inside and
the outside. The inside consists of
interviews and the outside is a
review of the show.

The outside:

A good rock concert is like a
good meal and a crowd at Wash-
ington and Lee University got its
fill Friday night.

Serving up rhythm and blues as
the type of food offered, the
Tower of Power concert in Dore-
mus Gym began with Sylvester
and His Hot Band as the appetiz-
er.

The six-man band’s show began
slowly, dragging a cold audience
into the empty gymnasium, but
warmed the crowd considerably
as the group’s performance pro-
gressed.

The sparkling red coat of the
lead vocalist acted as the focal
point with an off-brand of soul-
gospel music as the background.

The main course of the con-
cert was Freddie King, a blues
guitarist stylized somewhat after
B.B. and Albert King, two blues
giants.

His show packed a punch dri-
ven by emotions seldom felt so
vividly even when put forth by
the greatest performers. And that
blues feeling went straight to the
audience’s heart.

Clapping and stomping in time
with the music, the crowd follow-
ed King’s quicksilver fingers
through weepingly melancholy
moods to the highest, brightest
joy that can be felt through hand-
worked earthy blues.

The volitant guitar phrases al-
most talked, ranging from the
softest sighs to the most savage
screams, convincing the audience
it wanted more.

Dessert, the course most desir-
ed by the participants in this con-
cert meal, consisted of a healthy
helping of Tower of Power, an

11-man from Oakland,
Calif.

A source of mellow but moving,
jazz-oriented soul, Tower put on
a powerful, beautifully tight per-
formance.

As crisp, clean and fluid as a
mountain stream, the music mov-
ed the crowd to its feet where it
stayed throughout the remainder
of the show.

The finely grained, textured
sound was produced with near
perfection in a mode of sophisti-
cated, big band rhythm and blues.

A robust blend of saxophones,
trumpets an dother brass was
flawlessly balanced with a subtle,
tight, tasteful vocal harmony and
integrated into a oneness of total
sound,

Playing their nationally rated
hits such as “It’s So Very Hard to
Go” and “Just Another Day,”
Tower of Power left an audience
that was standing, willing and
ready for another helping of the
band’s kind of dessert.

group

The inside:

Downstairs, in the dressing
room of the gym, members of the
groups not on stage wandered
about drinking cokes and other
things, tuning up and running
through parts of songs to be per-
formed.

Talk of how long the groups
had been together and where
they were touring filtered
through background noises of the
performance upstairs.

I walked over to the lead gui-
tarist of the Hot Band and made
some comment about his guitar, a
gibson stereo, gold-plated job, and
he started talking about anything
and everything.

He said the group is thinking
about breaking up, a claim back-
ed up by Sylvester—lead vocalist
in the band.

Sylvester was the most talka-
tive in the band and said he felt
the group was a_-= glitter-rock

group, fashioned along the lines
of David Bowie and Alice Cooper.

He said the band has three
levels of outrage which become
the guiding influence of a parti-
cular show depending on the na-
ture of the audience.

The show put on at Washing-
ton and Lee was the first or mild-
est level, Sylvester said, because
the band felt that was all the
audience wanted.

Freddie King’s show is pretty
much the same wherever he goes
according to the drummer of the
group.

Although King’s backup group
as it is now has been together fot
only four months they feel they
have been successful.

The pianist in the band said
King is great to work with, that
he really knows what’s going on
in music.

King said he picked up the gui-
tar from his mother and his uncle
about 17 years ago.

He got most of his blues style
from the originators of blues gui-
tar such as T-Bone Walker, Muddy
Waters and B.B. King. He puts
the three together to get a sound
of his own.

King said that what comes out
of his guitar depends on the way
he feels.

Tower of Power’s. dressing
room was a jungle of different
sounds, with saxophones, other
horns and guitars being tuned
Grabbing the nearest guy without
an instrument I ended up talking
to one of the saxophone players
who, like the rest of the group,
was glad to talk about where
they’d come from and where he
felt they were going.

I asked him how a band as
large as his (11) managed to get
the arrangements together. He
said that everyone gets to explain
and try his own ideas but that the
final arrangement comes from

(Continued on page 5)
Page

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

Thursday,

November 15,

1973

Cadets boycott classes Friday

By TOM RITTENBURG
Virginia Military Institute cadets
broke the usually highly-discip-
lined, highly-organized atmos-
phere of the institute last Friday

when they called a boycott of
classes to protest an administra-
tive decision there pertaining to
the Honor System at VMI.

The problem began when the

Lexington complying
with energy problem

The Lexington City Council met
Jast Monday in a special session
and unanimously passed a resolu-
tion to support President Nixon’s
guidelines for the energy crisis.

The immediate effects of the
resolution are that all therma-
stats in the municipal buildings
will be set at 68 degrees and
lights will be turned off when not
in use. Citizens will be urged to
comply with the guidelines.

In related action, Retail Mer-
chants Association of Lexington,
acting on the advice of City Coun-
cil, said that the Christmas
lights will not be burned this
year. The lights will be put up,
but the electricity will not be
connected. The Association had
asked the Council if it would be
practical to burn the lights dur-
ing the Christmas parade. Al-
though City Manager John Doane
said the cost of connecting the

Black literature speech
to be given in duPont

Professor Houston A. Baker, Jr.,
Professor of English at the Uni-
versity of Virginia, will lecture at
& p.m. on Friday in duPont Audi-
torium on “Issues in the Study of
Black Literature.” The lecture,
sponsored by the Washington and
Lee English Department and
Seminars in Literature, will be
open to the public.

lights, and burning for one night
would be marginal, Vice-Mayor
Lloyd Bowling said that the City
must show leadership in _ this
emergency and advised the asso-
ciation not to connect the lights.

The resolution read, “ ... BE
IT RESOLVED that the City of
Lexington, Virginia, in the opera-
tion of the municipal facilities,
will follow the guidelines outlin-
ed by President Nixon during the
emergency period and .. . that

the citizens of Lexington, Virginia

be urged to comply voluntarily
with the guidelines ... as long as
the emergency exists.”

Earlier in the day the County
Board of Supervisors met to deal
with local energy problems. The
regional land fill has only enough
fuel to operate the bulldozer for
two days. The project is receiving
the same amount of fuel as last
vear, as ordered by the President.
However the propect was not in
full operation last year and did
not use the bulldozer. The Board
of Supervisors is seeking state
aid.

kK. D. Moore said that many per-
sons did not realize how serious
the impending fuel crisis is. He
said that Lexington faces a seri-
ous gasoline shortage between
Nov. 20 and Dec. 1.

While the strands of street lights
will not burn, the Retail Mer-
chants Assoc. plan to light the
plastic Christmas tree that will
be placed in the center of town.

 

 

121 W. Nelson

$

 

FOR YOUR EXTRA PIECES OF FURNITURE

Varner & Pole

115 Main St. —

Need Extra Cash

STUDENT LOANS AVAILABLE
NO AGE RESTRICTION

PEOPLES Finance Service

OF LEXINGTON

Lexington, Va.

Phone 463-3176

$

 

VMI administration decided to
abolish the unstructured, inde-
pendent exam system at the end
of the fall term. Major E. L. Doo-
ley, Jr., director of the Public
Information Office at VMI, said
the faculty there felt independent
exams were too difficult to ad-
minister. The decision to abolish
the independent exams was re-
viewed twice and announced Fri-
day morning.

The student leaders of the boy-
cott said they felt their integrity
was questioned by the move, as
the independent exam system at
VMI, as at Washington and Lee,
is based upon the Honor System.
The president of VMI’s senior
class asked the students to return
to their barracks for 11 a.m.
classes.

Student leaders then met with
the superintendent and the com-
mandant of the institute in the
barracks to discuss the problem.
There, the administration assured
the students that their honor was
not in question.

However, a source close to the
Honor Court at VMI, which is
composed of students, said that
council recommended last year
that independent exams be termi-

 

East Lexington
Grocery

Beer — Ice — Gas
Party Supplies — Snacks

Open 7 days a week
ABC No. 2078—8 a.m.-10 p.m.
SHOP FOR SUNDAY
EVENING DINNER
We Sell & Deliver Kegs

 

 

 

 

 

nated, as they were subject
abuse by the students in regards
to possible cheating. The recom-
mendation reportedly was one of
the major reasons why the VMI
administration decided to abolish
the independent exams.

The boycott ended just three
hours after it began, as leaders of
the boycott apparently were satis-
fied with the administration’s ex-
planation of the abolition of the
independent exams.

Major Dooley described Fri-
day’s boycott as organized and
peaceful, and as not being indica-
tive of a relaxation of discipline
or traditions as the military
school. However, there have been
reports in recent weeks of grow-
ing dissatisfaction on the part of
students with the discipline of the
VMI environment.

Notice

Proofs of individual portrait
shots for this year’s Calyx may
currently be approved by stu-
dents at Andre’s Studio next to
the ABC store. The studio is open

from 8 a.m. to 5 p.m. daily.

Paul’s Bike Shop

11 N. New St., Staunton
Phone 886-1310
PAUL Now Accepting All
BIKE REPAIRS at

Sears’ Lexington Store

Pick-Up Every Wednesday
Returned On Wednesday.
Also New 10 Speeds Batavus
Bikes For Sale.

0s Mra ste Me Me ote ate Me ote o&
Wf fe ne ofa ofa fe fe ofa ofe ke

 

 

 

 

STUDENTS

Make this your headquarters for Good Food

and Service

We have meal tickets at savings to you

SOUTHERN INN

IT LEEIE St rete Str tretrrrertr rst tr eer rere r ert Te
% - .

: The First National Bank

5 of Lexington

= has special checking accounts for students

%

‘ Setetetebdonnes
ty

>

 

 

 
Thursday, November 15, 1973

Platter chatter—Trios & Solos

(Continued trom Page 3)
sound as many dubs tend to do.

Next is the intellectual zinger
of the album, “Suite: 3x12,” in
vhich Towner goes even farther
than in the 12-string piece on the
first side. It’s seven minutes and
12 seconds well spent for anyone
who loves guitar.

“Raven’s Wood,” a trio with
McCandless on oboe again, follows
the suite. It is by far the most
romantic piece of the album, and
the oboe tends to make it a bit
sweeter than the Evans piece. I
can see Claude Debussy’s smiling
face in the clouds above the forest
this piece describes.

Closing out the album is “Reach
Me Friend,” another Towner solo,
and last is not least. Towner
could easily do an album with

Inside-Out: Inside

(Continued from page 3)
Emilio Castillo, leader of the
group.

The lead guitarist in the group
said that the band came from
straight rhythm and blues but is
trying to integrate jazz into its
sound,

The manager of the group told
me to refer to Tower’s music as
futuristic funk.

Important to the concert at
Washington and Lee was another
person who usually has no place

 
 
  
        

.
bhidly tliat

\  . i

ff |

— “)

Ee nee

KEYDET-GENERAL
RESTAURANT

eof thre Naar

Superb Pyrrrisy yt
Preturesque Atmosphere
Serving Pood te the

Penne Teaddon ol Varia,
Complete Facilities For

_ Banquets, Weddings & Receptions
POR RESERVATIONS, PHONI
Cie Mele West of | exsamtoman lS. 60 oh

John McLaughlin which would far

outstrip Mahavishnu’s work with
Carlos Santana. (Not to put down
Love, Devotion, and Surrender.)

I find Trios & Solos extremely
invigorating for body, mind, and
spirit, which is about all I can ask
for from a record. It doesn’t pick
you up and fling you into the
clouds on walls of amplified elec-
tricity, but there is just as much
power in the purity of the sound.
These men are very aware of the
sounds they are creating. The al-
bum is also a new perspective on
the band colectively known as
Oregon; it presents subgroupings
quite well.

This is the kind of record I
tend to buy second and even
third copies of: the first for my-
self and more for people I love.

Tower of Power

in the behind the scene story.
That person is the promoter from
Webb Productions, Gabbo Gal-
breath.

He said the arrangement he
has with W&L is to take the fi-
nancial responsibility for the con-
certs with the Student Activities
Board putting in the work.

The Tower of Power concert
was his first concert venture un-
der the arrangement and Gabbo
felt sure he had lost nearly $5,000
in the deal.

  
    

AND
MOTEL

ee

fos nes

te

al

 

Dry Cleaning

Linen Service

WE DELIVER

UNIVERSITY
CLEANERS

Reliable Service In

Storage & Free Moth Proofing

Shirts Laundered

Clothing Repair

463-3622

THE RING-TUM PHI

Page 5

 

 

Only 60 persons were on hand to witness the disastrous conse-
quences of eating the forbidden fruit in last Thursday’s presenta-
tion of “the Diary of Adam and Eve” in Lee Chapel.

—Photo by Charles Grubbs

He said he hopes to use the ex-

 

perience gained from putting on
this concert to make money on
future concerts.

If he continues to lose money,
Gabbo said, “we might have to
look at other possibilities.”

About the concert Friday night

Hamric and Sheridan
JEWELERS
Watch and Jewelry Repair
Hand Engraving & Class Rings
463-2022

 

he said, “I can’t understand why

there aren’t more people here.
What else is there to do in Lex-
ington?”

Good question.

tuais

Celebration
Thursday in the
Cockpit

5-6 p.m.

Wendell’s —
Barber Shop —

OPEN 9-6

9 South Jefferson

Closed Wednesday

Bookstore

Hlements of Style

Washington and Lee University

The Tools of Your Trade
hogets Thesaurus in Dictionary Form

—Lewis

—Strunk and White

{Manual for Writers of Term Papers

—Turabin
American Heritage Dictionary

 
 
  
   
 

  
Page 6

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

By BILL FLESHER

For the second week in a row,
Washington and Lee ran into a
workhorse running back who ran
right past them.

Denison’s Rich Simeone gallop-
ed for 240 yards and five touch-
downs Saturday as the Big Red
outscored the Generals 49-29.

The loss was the sixth in a row
for W&L, who now must beat
Washington University this Sat-
urday to equal last season’s mark
of 3-6.

Simeone, who carried the ball
35 times, scored on runs of 46, 1,
2, 2, and 34 yards. Denison quar-
terback Dan Ross, who himself
scampered for 85 yards, threw
touchdown passes to Ken Sklenic-
ka and Ken Janiak to account for
the rest of Denison’s scoring.

Not all, however, was lost for
the Generals on a day suited bet-
ter for ice hockey than for foot-
ball.

In scoring 29 points the offense
matched its best scoring effort of
the vear (W&L posted 29 points
in the season opener against
Hamilton).

Sophomore quarterback Jack
Berry was outstanding, hitting 21
of 35 passes for 259 yards. Two of
his aerials were grabbed in the
end zone, one by Tony Perry, the
other by Ferdie Richards.

Jim Farrar, who picked up 52
vards in 10 carries, got the other

two Generals scores on a pair of
one yard runs.

It wasn’t until the fourth quar-
ter that one could call the Gen-
erals out of the game, even
though it started off as if another
rout were impending.

The first time Denison got the
ball they scored, going 56 yards
in three plays. Simeone got the
ball each time. The third play
went for 46 yards and six points.

Steve Danis kicked the first of
seven conversions, and it was
7-0.

Late in the quarter Simeone got
his second TD on a fourth and
goal from the one. The kick made
it 14-0.

Sounded
their way.

Not quite.

After taking the kickoff, W&L
marched 66 yards in 12 plays, the
big one a 19 yard pass play from
Berry to Richards. Farrar went
the final yard, and Ralph Moore’s
kick made it 14-7 .

With 1:30 left in the first half
the Generals evened things up at
14 when Berry hit Perry with a
seven yard scoring toss. The six-
pointer capped an eight play, 70
vard drive, highlighted by Far-
rar’s twenty-six yard burst
through the middle.

After recovering an_ onsides
kick attempt, Denison quickly
moved 50 yards in 80 seconds to
take a 21-14 halftime lead, with

like Denison was on

Thursday, November 15, 1973

enerals outscored by Denison,
ace Washington U. Saturday

Ross hitting Sklenicka from eight
vards out.

The Big Red upped that lead to
28-14 midway through the third
period when Simeone got his third
score of the day, this time from
two yards out.

Again the Generals fought back.
They drove 67 yards in eleven
plays, with Berry and Richards
connecting for six from the five.
Moore’s kick made it 28-21.

Then the Big Red exploded—
scoring 21 points in the final
stanza to put the game away.

Simeone got touchdown num-
ber four early in the final period,
punching into the end zone from
the two.

With nine minutes left Sime-
one finished his scoring for the
day, getting his fifth touchdown
on a 34-yard ramble.

Three minutes later Farrar got
his second score of the day, and,
after Berry passed to Mark
George for the two-point conver-
sion, it was 42-29,

Then, with just :35 remaining

Ross teamed up with Janiak for
a 19 yard scoring strike which,

along with Danis’ seventh extra
point, finally closed out the scor-

ing.

For the Generals it was an
other week where half of the
team, this week the offense, play-
ed well while tht other half,
namely the defense, had its share
of problems.

Rich Simeone was among those
problems.

oo % % %

In their season finale on Satur-
day, the Generals travel to St.
Louis to take on the Battling
Bears of Washington University.

While W&L needs a win to
avoid a worse record than that of
1972, Washington U. needs vic-
tory to finish with their best rec-
ord in a decade.

Last year in Lexington, WU
started slowly but came on to
hand W&L a 27-7 defeat.

This week’s game can be heard
over WLUR, with the broadcast
beginning at 2:15 p.m.

Law School jocks lead intramural standings

The Legal Eagles of the Law
Schoo] curerntly lead in the in-
tramural point standings as of
Monday. The Law School jocks
have accumulated 520 points, fol-
lowed closely by Phi Kappa Sig-
ma with 480 points.

G0 GENERALS

   

Navy

Goop Luck To THE Soccer TEAM

FROM

THE vel ARMY tote neraetHenn,

The Law School has captured
the IM football, golf, and turkey
trot titles. The Faculty won the
tennis crown, while Delta Tau
captured the swimming cham-
pionship.

 
Thursday, November 15, 1973

 

Action in last Saturday’s intrasquad basketball scrimmage in
Doremus Gym. The Generals are currently preparing for their
home opener against Clinch Valley Nov. 30.

—Photo by Lloyd Eagen

THE RING-TUM PHI

Page 7

 

Soccer team faces Navy
in season finale Saturday

By BILL AUSTIN

One week ago yesterday, Wash-
ington and Lee University’s soc-
cer team earned a tough 2-1 ver-
dict over Virginia Tech, thus
boosting its season’s record to
seven victories in ten decisions.

Played at Blacksburg, the con-
test was strongly influenced by
the less-than-ideal condition of
the field, a surface pock-marked
through overuse and neglect. The
rough terrain ruled out any sem-
blance to a smooth passing attack,
proving a powerful obstacle to
ball-contro] by either squad.

W&L gained the win despite be-
ing outshot by 27-17. Indeed, one
of the Generals’ goals was the re-
sult of a Tech fullback’s errant
boot into his own team’s nets,
Bob Crawford scored the only
other goal, providing the winning
margin.

VPI’s scoring burst did not es-
cape controversy, when the Gobb-
lers were awarded an_ indirect
free kick in consequence of goalie
Paul Devine’s alleged taking of
too many steps. The referee’s rul-
ing brought a vehement burst of
protest from W&L Coach Lyles,
but to no avail.

Basketball team preparing for season home opener

Washington and Lee’s annual
varsity-alumni basketball game
takes place this Saturday night at
7:30 in Doremus Gymnasium,

Coach Verne Canfield will send
his 1973-74 edition of the Generals
members of past Canfield teams.

Among the alumni expected to
be here for the game are Mike
Neer, Jody Cline, Norwood Morri-
son, Stu Fauber, and recent gra-
duates Mike Daniel and John
Glace (class of ’72) and 1973 grads
Doug Clelan and Ellie Gutshall.

Invitations have been extended
to several other alums, including
three members of last year’s
squad, Hatton Smith, Charlie
Strain, and captain Paul McClure.

Coaching the alumni will be
far] Edwards, who was captain
of Canfield’s first W&L team in
1966.

On Friday and Saturday, Nov.
22 and 23, the Generals will host
George Mason in a pair of presea-
son scrimmages.

The season opener comes Nov-

 

SLICK TIRES

POPULAR SIZES

— 60 Series

— Radials

 

LET US RETREAD YOUR

WE RETREAD MOST ALL

— Small & Large Truck Tires

Also New Good Year Winter Tires

THOMPSON TIRE (0., Inc.

GOOD YEAR

2720 Peach Ave: —

CALL 261-7431

 

3Juena Vista, Va.

ember 30 at home against Clinch
Valley, followed the next night by
a visit from the Cavaliers of the
University of Virginia.

 

 

R/C Theatres
Regal Cinema Fare
in Lexington

State Theatre

12-14 W. Nelson St. 463-3424

NOW SHOWING
One Week Only

Jesus Christ
Superstar

Lyric Cinema

135 S. Main St. 463-3543

Now thru Sat.
Harry in your

Pocket

Sun. - Mon. - Tue,
Summertime

Killer

 

The defeat of the Tech team,
the same bunch that had managed
a tie against Madison College,
came truly on the basis of a solid
defensive effort by the entire
Washington and Lee squad. How-
ever, a blending of offensive and
defensive skills is a must for this
coming Saturday’s encounter with
Navy.

The game, scheduled for 2 p.m.
at Wilson Field, carries special
significance for a couple of rea-
sons. For one, it is the Generals’
home final for the 1973 season.
Then too, it poses possibly the
toughest match of the fall season,
featuring a Navy team that boasts
a similar win-total of seven, and
a potent scoring attack.

Quote of the week
This week’s quote of the week
overheard when our source, about
to head out of town, queried,
“Is it farther to Roanoke than
by bus?”

 

   

AUSTRIA © FRANCE L-week, per

erson, dou-
ble, from
New York
or Nassau.
Add $98
from Chica-

0. Sing!
A
Features round-trip jet to
Luxembourg, RT bus to Kitz-
buhel, 2 meals daily, double
room in chalet, Dec. 14 and
weekly in Jan. Add $10 Feb.
and March. Also, 1-week ski
tours to Chamonix and 2
weeks to Kitzbuhel or Chamo-
nix. Lowest-cost ski tours to
— of any scheduled air-
ine.

$250 Car or Rail Tour*

One week, per person, double,
features round-trip jet from
New York to Luxembourg and
car with unlimited mileage—
or $260* unlimited rail travel
in 13 European countries for
singles. Add $98 from Chica-
go. Offered Nov. thru March.

SEE YOUR TRAVEL AGENT

All prices subject to change.

To: ICELANDIC AIRLINES

(212) 757-8585

630 Fifth Ave., N.Y., N.Y. 10020
Outside N.Y. State: Toll Free
(800) 221-9760

Send folder CN on tours to Europe
from N.Y. 0, from Chicago O,
from Miami/ Nassau 0,

 

 

 

 

 

 

State Zip

Te FI RE Dig ici

ICELANDIC

3056

i

c
|
|
!
|
|
|
!
|
|
|
|
|
|
|
|
|
L
Thursday, November 15, 1973

Page 8 THE RING-TUM PHI

  
 
 
 
 
    

Only $60 buys your casual
wardrobe! Bomber Jacket,
Slacks, Turtleneck Shirt

and Sportcoat from

DAVIDSONS

Purchased separately, you get the $32.95
Leather Look Bomber Jacket for $23.95
... the Plaid Slacks, $15 & $18 values
for $9.95 . . . the Corduroy or Plaid
Sportcoat, a $30 value for $22.95...
and our specially priced Turtleneck
Shirt for $7. Or buy all 4 pieces,
November 15th thru November

21st, for only $60 and_ pocket

an additional savings of $3.85

on the entire collection. At
Davidsons, 123 West i
Nelson Street, Lexington.

 
 

»

Sneath mri
rhe pica

      

 

 

  

hme len tpn lenny

 
 
 
 
 
 
   
   

ale. ea

 

 

DAVIDSONS 123 West Nelson Street, Lexington
THE RING-TUM PHI

Washington and Lee University’s Weekly Newspaper

 

Vol. LXXITI

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA, NOVEMBER 29, 1973

Number 10

 

EC endorses credit card
use in W&L Supply Store

By ROBERT PUGH

Monday night the EC endorsed

soph. David Braun’s _ proposal
which would allow Bank Ameri-
card and Master Charge to be

used in the Co-op to charge every-
thing but food.

Under the proposed plan, the
First National Exchange Bank
would send representatives to
W&L to sign students up for
their cards. Parents would be
notified, but not consulted, that
their son or daughter had applied.
The initial charge limit would be
8250 per month, but the limit
would gradually be revised up-
ward. The plan now goes to Mr.
Toler (manager of the Supply
Store, Mr. Whitehead (University
Treasurer), and bank officials for
final approval.

Student Body President Doug
Schwartz announced that nomina-
tions for Who’s Who in American
Colleges and Universities are due
by 6 p.m. Sunday. They should
be placed in the EC Box or given
to an EC member. Undergradu-
ate seniors and law school seniors

Student injured
in auto crash

Robert Lane Fertig, class of
1975, is listed in critical condition
in a Roanoke Hospital following
an automobile accident last Fri-
day around midnight.

Details of the accident are
sketchy. Fertig was apparently a
passanger in the car which crash-
ed six miles north of Covington
on Rt. 220.

No other details were available
at press time.

are eligible for the 26 positions.
Any student can nominate. Un-
dergraduate, non-senior members
of the EC, UC, and class officers
will choose the undergraduate
seniors, and the Student Bar As-
sociation will select law school
seniors for the award. The under-
graduate screening committee
meets Monday at 8 p.m. in the
EC room.

The EC is considering a pro-

Brockman trial

on 2 charges
set Dec. 10

Charles Butler Brockman, 50,
associate professor of romance
languages at Washington and Lee,
will be brought to trial Dec. 10
on two counts of contributing to
the delinquency of a minor.

The charges stem from a pair
of sworn warrants alleging that
Brockman gave hashish to two
juveniles, a 12-year-old boy and a
14-year-old girl, Saturday, Oct.
13.

The trial will take place in
Rockbridge County Juvenile and
Domestic Relations Court. Judge
James M. Davidson will preside.

Brockman was arrested the
Monday following the alleged in-
cident by the Lexington Police
Department. He was released on
$4000 bond.

NOTICE

The W&L_ Republicans will
hold a general meeting Sunday,
Dec, 2, at 8 p.m. in Room 114 of
the University Center. There will
be a special election to fill a va-
cancy in the position of Secretary-
General.

 

KXAMINATION PROCEDURE
1. On or before Friday, Nov.
30, obtain from the Registrar’s
Office an examination enve-
lope for each of your classes
and a schedule form. The lat-
ter is for your use in planning
your examination schedule.

2. Complete the top portion
of each envelope in accordance
with the schedule you plan.

3. Submit the examination
envelope to the instructor for
the course at the first class
meeting on or after Monday,
December 3.

4. At the time selected for

your examination, go to the
place previously designated by
the instructor where you will
be given your envelope and di-
rected to a classroom.

5. Upon completion, sign the
pledge at the bottom of the en-
velope. Place the questions
and your answers in the en-
velope and return to the place
of issue.

Also, each student may pick
up his Winter Term schedule
upon return from the Christ-
mas holidays on or after Jan.
2, 1974.

 

 

 

 

posal to ask the school’s Finan-
cial Aid Committee to eliminate
car value as a deduction from fi-
nancial aid. They feel that a car
is now a necessity, not a luxury,
and believes this would remove a
major disadvantage with which
scholarship students must con-
tend. Van Pate, Director of Stu-
dent Financial Aid, will meet
with the EC next Monday night
to discuss the situation.

The EC also revised the proce-
dure for honor trials to allow
opinion to be considered as well
as fact. Most members expressed
the feeling that considering opi-
nions to be inadmissable greatly
restricted the EC in handling
cases. Additionally, members will
be allowed to vote only after all
discussion has ended, and the
“reasonable doubt” clause has
been read.

In other business, the EC de-
cided to set up a timetable for
working up a plan to encourage
the Board of Trustees to make a
Fine Arts center the next build-
ing constructed on the campus.
The plan will be submitted at the
Jan. 11 Board meeting.

Next week:

Nominations due for Who’s Who
Sunday at 6 p.m.,

Mock Convention Committee
and Student Activities Board Re-
port,

Discussion with Van Pate about
car deduction,

Set up timetable for Fine Atrs
proposal,
Screening committee meets to

pick undergraduate seniors for
Who’s Who at 8 p.m.

 

 

new

Looking for a
Rapelling may be the answer.

hobby?

Here a Washington and Lee
student does a free rapel off the
footbridge. The rapel was part
of a recent exercise by the
WE&L ROTC Department.
—Photo by Bill Robinson

Apollo astronaut to lecture
on psychic phenomena

Navy Captain Edgar Mitchell,
Se. D., the sixth man to set foot
on the moon, conducted telepathy
experiments from outer space and
now, as President of the Institute
of Noetic Sciences, explores the
“inner spaces” of the human
mind.

Two documentary films on cur-
rent scientific investigations of
KE. S. P. and related subjects
which were produced under the
direction of Capt. Mitchell, will be
shown Thursday, Nov. 29, in du-
Pont Auditorium at 7:30. The total
running time is about one hour.
There is no charge,

The films are entitled “Inner
Spaces” and “The Ultimate Mys-
tery” and cover a wide range of
spontaneous and laboratory con-
trolled psychic phenomena.

Highlighted are experiments by

the lie detector expert, Cleve
Backster, which suggest that a
form of consciousness exists in

plants and simple bacteria cells;
a demonstration by Dr. Justa
Smith, a University of Chicago
trained bio-chemist, of ensymic
changes caused by a_healer’s
hands; and studies of “out-of-the-
body” experiences in the labora-
tory of Dr, Karlis Osis.
 

 

 

 

 

Page 2 THE RING-TUM PHI

 

Development and the fine arts LETT

Washington and Lee is currently in the midst of a $56 million de-
velopment drive which, besides having already given us new Dore-
mus, will give us a new law school, a new library, new dorms, restora-
tion of the front campus, and $22 million in endowments if all goals
are reached by 1979. But it will not, as currently planned, give us a
fine arts center.

The need for such a center is apparent if we view the current
deplorable situation here in regards to the arts and the burgeoning
growth of art, drama, and music departments in recent years, par-
ticularly since the curriculum changeover to a 12-12-6 system in 1970.

In 1969-70, there were 11 “fine arts” junior and senior majors, as
they were termed before art, music, and drama were departmentaliz-
ed each unto its own. Now there are more than double that number of
majors at latest count. And music isn’t even offered as a major yet.

But the total enrollment in the fine arts at W&L truly reflects
their growth here. Enrollment figures have nearly doubled in the fine
arts since 1969-70. There were 15 art courses in that school year with
a total enrollment of about 525 students; there were six drama courses
with 100 enrolled; there were seven music courses with about 175
students in those courses. Last year, the figures were as follows: 900
enrolled in 20 art courses; 250 in nine drama courses; 375 enrolled in
19 music courses.

In addition, five fine arts courses offered last year had an enroll-
ment of over 100 students, while another eight had over 40 studnts.

Thre are but four bona fide art, two drama, and two music pro-
fessors at Washington and Lee.

There are but four bona fide art, two drama, and two music pro-
has very little stage room, and is comparable in sturdiness to many
of the barns one may see along Rt. 39 traveling toward Goshen. One
wonders how they stand. That, essentially, is the facilities of the
Drama Department at Washington and Lee.

Music is treated equally well here. There are six listening devices
for records up in McCormick (you can be assured that normally no
more than four are working at any given period before a listening
quiz in a music course). There are also practice rooms in the Univer-
sity Center, as well as a classroom. And those facilities are adequate,
at best, for the ever-expanding music department here.

Art is primarily centered in duPont Hall. The “studio” seats about
25 at the most for any one course, and there are always at least 25
students in most of the studio courses, with a mile-long waiting list
hoping someone already in the class develops a conflict in his schedule.

And there is no hope for relief as seen in the framework of the de-
velopment program drive, which may seem surprising to some since
the fine arts was listed as of the highest priority in a university self-
study back in the 1960’s.

What the university needs is some sort of fine arts center. The
problem is that the fine arts personnel just can’t seem to agree on
the definition on what a fine arts center should be. Music wants one
thing, drama another, and art still another.

On top of this we must consider a minimal $4-5 million in cost for
the building, which would have to be added to the $56 million cur-
rently sought.

It is not simply a matter of priorities. The current building pro-
gram has been proceeding in a set fashion more because of circum-
stances rather than priority. Certainly a new library would take pre-
cedence over a new gym in the eyes of most, but the circumstances
were such a few years ago where a new gym was easier to build than
a new library. And so it was, and so the current building program
continues. An alumni gift might make circumstances conducive to a
fine arts center, But the alumni don’t know of any need for such a
center.

The hawkers of the development program—the men who are trying
to sell the idea of the alumni to raise money—can do something about
this problem. Since the development program’s unveiling in February,
1972, the men behind the program have been trying to sell it as if it
were a custom-made model specificially designed for the university;
cut-and-dry, with no options available.

Instead, these men should solicit funds with a certain flexibility
to the program—offer the alumni several options as to what to donate
money toward in the development program. Offer the standard model
development program, if you will, but offer the optional extras such as
a fine arts center, added journalism facilities, or whatever else could
be built as an integral part of Washington and Lee.

The Lewis Law Center has already been provided for by an alum-
nus who saw something he liked in the development program. Why
not offer the chance for another graduate to bestow his name and
money upon a fine arts center?

—P.J.L.

Thursday, November 29, 1973

Rockbridge area relief

program is explained
Dear Sir:

The members of the Rockbridge
Area Relief Association (RARA)
wish at this time to make a re-
port on our progress to the com-
munity. Perhaps the easiest way
to understand what RARA is do-
ing is to know that RARA has
three functions: (1) a food closet
in Good Shepherd Lutheran
Church administered by the Rev.
Terry Clark, (2) a clothes closet
in Trinity Methodist Church ad-
ministered by the Rev. Philip
Hunsicker, and (3) the disbursing
of voluntarily contributed funds
and services administered by Vi-
vian Buchanan in the social serv-
ices office. The three functions
are not only mutually supportive
but are kept in close communica-
tion with each other.

The food closet received $100
from RARA funds and $395 con-
tributed directly by private in-
dividuals. The shelves of the food
closet have been stocked with this
money. To use the food closet, a
person must be first screened
through social services or Reach
Out.

The clothes closet reports that
it is very busy. Phil Hunsicker
said that at this time of the year,

TO THE RV

upwards of 20 people a week are
coming to look for clothes.

The third function, which is to
provide funds to alleviate emer-
gency crises, has likewise been
very busy. Since January of 1973
through October 24, $2028.23 was
contributed on a voluntary basis.
$1949.37 was dispensed, helping
a total of 111 people ($100 of that
went to the food closet). Expendi-
tures were for such items as medi-
cines and prescriptions, doctors,
rent and moving and shelter, gro-
ceries before there was a food
closet, dentist, hospital, therapy,
water bills, heat and electric bills.

All in all, that means that you
the public have contributed ap-
proximately $2423 eiher directly
to RARA or to the food closet or
in the CROP march, have donat-
ed hundreds and hundreds of cans
of food and many, many articles
of clothing to help many, many
people of this community with
their crises—perhaps as many as
four or five hundred. We, of
course, hope that you will con-
tinue your generosity and sup-
port. Contributions may be made
to RARA, c-o St. Patrick’s Church,
Lexington, Va.

Thank you one and all.

Jack Behen
President, RARA

Student participation heavy
m community aid projects

Are Washington and Lee stu-
dents interested in community
service? Statistics say yes.

“Over 125 students are doing
regular weekly volunteer service
work this semester,” stated Ken
Lane, University Federation ad-
viser. “We are extremely pleased
to see this kind of community
support from Washington and
Lee students,” he added.

According to Lane, the Big
Brother program has 25 volun-
teers. This project matches each
student volunteer with a child in
the community who needs addi-

tional companionship and
sonal attention.

per-

Another University Federation
program is tutoring in the local
school] system. There are 70 stu-
dents in this program, Lane stat-
ed, along with 25 community vol-
unteers which the University
Federation has recruited.

In addition, the Western State
Cental Hospital project has 13
volunteers from Washington and
Lee and the Virginia School for
the Deaf and Blind has five vol-
unteers.

 

 

THE RING-TUM PHI

The Ring-tum Phi is published on Thursdays during the college year.
It is printed by the Journalism Laboratory Press, Washington and Lee
University. The mailing address is Box 899, Lexington, Virginia 24450.
Entered as second class matter September 29, 1946, at the Post Office,
Lexington, Virginia 24450, under the act of March 3, 1879. Subscription
rates: $6.00 for the school year, $3.00 for the semester.

PAUL J. LANCASTER ANDREW J. A. CHRISS

Editor-in-chief Business Manager
be eS SS eS Jess Reeves
ek. SS SS Bill Austin
Wy a a oss ss Bill Robinson
WS TO oo oo sks sess Palmer Trice, Robert Gurnee
OO ee David Lee
ME og oi ess Dave Finnell, John Killpack, Chuck Alt
OS cs Tim Moore, Steve Yevich, Tom Rittenburg,

Rome Scott, Vance Marlowe, Bill Flesher, Paul Morella

 
 

 

Thursday,

November 29, 1973

THE RING-TUM PHI

Page 3

 

Rush: 245 Freshmen have pledged

Just over two-thirds of this
vear’s freshman class at Wash-
ington and Lee have pledged a
fraternity following Rush 1973,
an increase over the 60% figures
of the last two years.

Final figures released by the
Interfraternity Council of W&L
state that 88.7% of the 364 fresh-
men in the university participat-
ed in Rush. Of those that parti-
cipated, 245 freshmen pledged
while another 8.8% of the class
preferred deferred Rush.

The list of pledges by frater-
nity:

Beta Theta Pi — Tom Green-
wood, Neal Cory, Boyd Mart‘n,
Lee Kennedy, Samer Wahbe, Ned
Hancock, Barry Barlow, Fordy
Gardner, Frank Turner;

Delta Tau Delta — James Woo-
dell, Bob Ottenritter, Nick Gill,
Chris Larson, John Magee, Jim
Root, John Strock, Dries van Wa-
genberg, Tony Vandenberg, Joe
Carrere, Mark Krieger, Chris von
Gohren, Robert Preston;

Lambda Chi Alpha — Robert
Campbell, Bob Auerbach, Marshall
Weaver, Jim Lawson, Bill Brels-
ford, Mark Davis, Kirk Ruffin, J.
R. Downey, Tom Yancey, Mike
Miller, Bill Watson, David Felger,
Bill Oglesby, Jim ‘Scott, Rick
Bernstein, Chris Dietz—(deferr-
ed);

Phi Delta Theta — Tim Ingram,
Tom Montgomery, Bill Schooley,
John Friesner, Lewis Windham,
Jim Newton, Bill Clemons, Jimmy
Duffy, Carlton Henson, Tannie
Frierson, Sandy Avent, John
Scruggs, Mike Hightower, Charles
Willams, PRil Allen, Rob Mc-
Curdy;

Phi Gamma Delta — Scott Flu-
harty, Rick Fink, John Munken-
beck, Pat Reilly, Peter Moore,
William Cole, Bob Benden, Barc
Hunter, Denny Gaulteny, Doug
Scovanner, Rick Spink, Doug
Fuge, William Cople, Bob Rath-
bun, Skip Knopke, Tim Herrill,
Steve Swiebus, Steve White, Fred
Westphal;

Phi Kappa Psi—Mickey Knapp,
Robert Carpentier, Steve DiBia-
gio, Jeff Barr, Rocky Joyner, Ro-
bert Daniels, Maynard McMorkle,
Sal Abbruzzese, Tim Hendry,
Warren Wolfe, Charles Clow,
Keith Crocker, Brian Carr, Steve
McCane, Jim Crytzer, Joe Dubu-
que, John Buckthal, Chris Frenze,
Paul Larkin, Walt Kelly, John
Breckinridge, Paul Thompson,
James Houston;

Phi Kappa Sigma—Mike Chris-
tovich (soph.), Steve Scully
(soph.), Kim Sims, Tom Hunter,
ken Spence, Jim Dick, Rick Wolf,
Brad Fretz, J. Monahan, Ralph
3augher, Roger Rydell, Jim
Brooks, Claiborne Irby, Todd Gal-
vin, Jesse O’Neal, Joe McMahon
(from Deferred list);

Pi Kappa Alpha — Tad Leit-
head, Trip Wornom, Mike Forry,
Ixen Walter, Jamie Vardell, Peter
Torgenson, Paul Morella, Jim
Fisher, Jim Ferguson, Bill Craver,
Cal Colvin, Bill Broders, Steve
Good;

Phi Kappa Phi — Ferris Mack,
Curt Power, Tom Murphy, Terry
McCartin, Doug Foster, Rick Mc-
Han, Mike Ferrara, Paul Clay,
John Ulizio, Clay Corry, Roger
Fred, Stephen Yevich, Robert
Fries, John Trowbridge, Charles
Ginsburgh, Bruce Borghardt, Jay
McCann, Jim Utterback, Gary
Adams, Craig Cothran, Ted Uhl-
man, Marshall Dean, Mark Ulmer,
Philip Johnson, Jeff Hazel, Bill
Thompson;

Psi Upsilon — Bill Edmisten,
Doug Dewing, Robert Chiaviello,
John Keefe, Norman Chan, Rich-
ard Bagby, John Jackley, Mark
Sunkel, Rick Ballou, Rob Wilson,
Sam Steves;

Sigma Alpha Epsilon — Richard
Everett, Bill Beauchamp, Al Ro-
binson, Mike Thompson, Doug
Hunter, Jeff Peck, Steve Norris,
Clark Thompson, John Cheairs,
Jack Dudley, Craig Hamilton,
Tom Murphy, Sandy Stradtman,
Walter Kansteiner, Ed Callison,
Ken Voelker;

Sigma Chi—Pat Brennan, Kelly
Shaw, Sammy Thompson, Rob Di-
Silvestre, Bolling Haygood, Sandy
Harcus, Jim Koch, Jim Southard,
Richard Rathbone, Scott Carlson,
Robert Coletti, Michael Arm-
strong, Mark Payne, Sandy Meyer,
Dan Westbrook, Larry Nickell,
James E. Ballou, Tom Mitchell,
Terry Atwood, Dave Johnston,
Cobb Alexander, Michael M. Mon-
ahan, Tim Vaughn, Porter Mc-
Neil, J. Austin Ball, Rand Kriko-
Fan Jon Rosen, ance

Mann, Donald W. Glenn, John
Wilson, Doug Kohlenstein, Mick
Kohlenstein, Bob Lyford;

Sigma Nu — Ken Payne, Ho-
ward Dickinson, Rob Caruthers,
Robert Jones, Scott Franklin,
David Essig, Derek Hamilton,
Bruce Zivley, Joel Everett, Gay-
den Robert, Philip aHtchett, Bob
Jungman, Joel Mohrman, Scott
Watson (soph.), John Hollinger;

Sigma Phi Epsilon — Nick Puc-
ciariello, Frank Merkel, Warren
Jervey, Joe Honig, Penn Plum-

mer, Grant Mouser, Marshall Sny-
der, Ben Lowe, Bruce Campbell,
Brad Smith, Steve O’Neil;

Zeta Beta Tau — Sol Brotman,
Joseph Jardine, Louis Hacker-
man, Ricky Lovegrove, S. F. Ray-
mond Smith, Howard Sklaroff,
Tom McBride, Reid Griffin, John
Gayle, Chris Goldsmith;

Deferred Rush - 1973 — James
Schakenbach, David Urano, Rob-
ert Flint, Stuart Serenbetz, Philip
Kaplan, Chris Cascone, Bebo Pe-

(Continued on page 4)

Candlelight service revived;
scheduled for December 5

The University Christmas Can-
dlelight Service used to be a re-
gular feature here in Lexington
around Christmas time. Given
right before the Christmas break
at Washington and Lee, it com-
bined a program of Christmas
carols along with the reading of
the Christmas story by W&L fac-
ulty.

When exams were switched to
before Christmas in 1970, the
schedule prohibited a concert,
since the last few weeks were
now to be spent finishing up the
semester and taking exams.

Last year the Washington and
Lee University Federation reviv-
ed the concert, and this year they

will again be sponsoring the:serv-
ice,

“It had gotten to be a sort of
tradition here at W&lL,” said
Floyd Lewis, U.F. president. “The
students, faculty and townspeople
looked forward to it every year.
We couldn’t let the schedule
change force its end.”

The concert will be held next.
Wednesday, December 5, at 7 p.m.
in Robert E .Lee Memorial Ep’‘s-
copal Church. It is open to the
public and is free. Collection
plates will be passed for dona-
tions. All proceeds will go to the
Childrens Winter Clothing Drive.

The nine readings will be donz
by administrators, faculty mem-
bers and students.

Where your tuition dollar goes

By PAUL MORELLA

Tuition has been rising astrono-
mically at Washington and Lee,
increasing by 25% in just the last
four years. As it turns out, this
rate is fairly commensurate with
most other private universities.
The question remains, however,
where does the money go and
how does tuition fit into the total
W&L budget.

Out of a $2,500 tuition cost for
the 1973-74 school year, 67.8% of
this figure is devoted to instruc-
tional expenses. In addition, 13.2%
is going towards plant operation
and maintenance, 10% for student
and public service, 5.9% towards
administrative expenses, and the
remaining 3.0% is used for alum-
ni and general expenses.

Tuition and fees account for a
total of 65.8% of the educational!
and general revenues of W&L,
while 16.8% comes from endow-
ment income, 6.8% from alumni
funds and the remainder of the
income coming from additional
funds, and gifts. Also, auxiliary
enterprises net a total of $1,125.-
000 towards the budget but re-
quire an expenditure of $1,069,-
oS6 to operate,

This budget, however,
reflect income or

does not
expenditures

for restricted purposes that may
be received during the 1973-74
fiscal year.

Over the years, more and more
of the budget is being devoted to.
wards the educational and gen-
eral budget. For example, in the
1960-61 school year, 44% of the
$750 tuition fee went towards the
educational and general budget,
while 65% of the tuitional costs

will be spent for the ’73-’74 school

year.

In addition, enrollment has been
increasing steadily over the years
growing from 1,163 for the ’60-’61
school year to 1,639 for this schooi
year.

A breakdown of educational
fees towards each separate de-
partment was unavailable from
the university treasurer.

Ask Traveler

Q—The energy crisis letter to all students seems to confirm the actual
existence of President Huntley. Is there such a person or did a
J-School professor ghost-write that letter?

A—President “Bob” Huntley, the man once described as a cross be-

tween The Invisible Man and a young Ward Bond,

is not the

myth that most people believe. He lives and breathes as an integral
part of the University, and, although he has been listed by the
Dept. of the Interior in between the blue heron and Bigfoot as
America’s fastest vanishing breed, Pres. Huntley has successfully
guided W&L, over the years, through the shoals of college man-

agement.

Fund-raising, alumni activities, high echelon correspondence—
these presidential duties are thankless, glamourless, behind-the-

scene-duties. No wonder,
at different times,

Pres. Huntley has mistaken on campus,
as a third

year law student, Quarter Man,

and the Xerox repairman. Such is the price the monarch pays in
the kingdom of the blind, though his effectiveness never wavers.
The recent letter advocating energy conservation is ample evi-
dence of the man’s firm yet unobstrusive leadership of W&L.

Q—yYes, but what does he look like?

A—Well, if I can remember some of those Wagon Train shows .
THE RING-TUM PHI Thursday, November 29, 1973

This week at W&L—

 

Inside-Out

 

 

By ROME SCOTT

There’s an old saying, “every-
hody’s out of step but Johnny.”
In this case I’m Johnny.

“Jesus Christ Superstar” has
‘been panned by nearly every film
critie of any consequence in
America, usually as a blasphem-
ous protest production.

The unusual thing about the
claim is that everybody’s scream-
ing, not just those who believe
Christ was God incarnate but
those who believe Jesus was just
another man as well.

What an amazing film to be so
flexible in potential interpreta-
tion as to raise opposition from
two groups who usually oppose
each other’s point of view.

How can both sides be right?
Either it does portray Christ as
an ordinary man or it doesn’t.

That’s the beauty of the movie
—the viewer can make it say any-
thing he wants it to. That is the
reason two groups can hate the
same film for two diametrically
opposed sets of ideas.

Aside from being an ultimately
malleable movie, the production
technique gives “Superstar” a
grandeur of visuals, combined
with sound, not seen since “The
Sound of Music.”

Set in a desert among ruins, the
possibility of blandness of color
and gracelessness of scenery is
ignored so that vibrance and awe-
someness arise amid the rubble.

Christ’s table-turning escapade
in the temple takes on a vivid
meaning and “Get out” feels as
well as hears.

The question of man or God be-
comes moot as the depth of be-
trayal of an entity who believes in
what he’s doing intensifies.

Judas’ struggle takes on a Clar-
ity not gotten from church ser-
mons in which he is made out to
be a devil, or talks in the temple
where he is a black eye to theo-
logy.

One comes to see that Judas
was just a man with human weak-
nesses.

The excellent quality of the
acting is overwhelming. Every
character plays his part complete-
ly within character.

A totally enriching experience
no matter what personal beliefs

 

121 W. Nelson

$

 

Need Extra Cash

STUDENT LOANS AVAILABLE
NO AGE RESTRICTION

PEOPLES Finance Service

OF LEXINGTON

a viewer might have, “Superstar”
is entertaining, meaningful, as-
tonishing.

As for the other critics I say,
“forgive them, for they know not
what they do.”

Editor’s note: The following art-
icle is reprinted from the Thanks.
giving edition of the Birmingham
News.

Close to 2500 stayed up way
past most bedtime hours to hear
the funkiest and bounciest bundle
of bright beat to come from an
Alabama-born group.

Wet Willie’s Concert at the
Alabama Theatre on Thanksgiv-
ing Eve confirmed the five-man
band’s right to a big piece of the
rock world’s limelight.

Even before the group was on
the stage, the audience was on its
feet, clapping in anticipation of
the best hard blues boogie rock
a now-band can deliver.

Deliver Wet Willie did too,
pounding out a colorful combina-
tion of counterpoint rhythms in-
sistently enough to move even
the most sluggish of the post-mid-
night crowd.

The no-gimic group generated
a bucket full of excitement seem-
ingly without effort.

And the most natural of all the
group members was lead singer,
Jimmy Hall.

The Mick Jagger look-alike
pranced around the stage belting
out raw, earthy, soul-felt blues.

Then, as if one talent isn’t
enough, Hall pulled out a harmon-
ica and wailed emotion-packed
notes with a style that veteran
Paul Butterfield could do well to
think about.

Wet Willie’s energy-charged
show was first billed to the under-
talented, over-powered Browns-
ville Station, a three-man group
from Ann Arbor, Mich.

That group’s stage show was all
personality but as for its music,
better has been made by an ailing
Mac truck.

That’s all Folks—

no fe Ee
will be a
meeting

There
Council

University
today at 4:30

p.m. in the Executive Committee
room.

 
     
  
   

 

Phone 463-3176

$

  
   

In the field of music

Pianist to perform

Dorothy Lewis, well-known
piano virtuoso, will present a
concert of works ranging from
Mozart to Bartok next Wednes-
day in the second Rockbridge
Concert-Theatre Series presenta-
tion of the season.

Miss Lewis will perform in Lee
Chapel at Washington and Lee at
8:15 p.m. Admission is by season
RCTS subscription.

Miss Lewis’ Lee Chapel Concert
will include Ten Variations on a
Theme by Mozart; Beethoven's
Sonata in A-flat Major, opus 110;
Sonate by Bela Bartok; Chopin’s
Nocturne in F Major, Etude in G-
Sharp Minor, and Ballade in F
Minor, and Ravel’s Miroirs.

Baroque music slated

A chamber music concert, fea-
turing contemporary and baroque
trumpet music, will be presented
tonight at 8 p.m. in Fairfax
Lounge in the University Center.

WLUR will broadcast
W&L professor’s work

A musical composition by a
Washington and Lee professor
will be performed on a national
radio program which can be
heard Sunday on WLUR-FM.

The composition is “String
Quartet No. 3,” by Robert Ste-
wart, professor of music and act-

ing head this year of the depart-
ment of fine arts.

The piece will be performed by
the Stradivari String Quartet. The
program on which it will be heard
is one of a 13-part series carried
by more than 150 public-service
stations.

245 pledge

(Continued from page 3)
nick, Clay Preston, Charles Po-
well, Tom Keigler, Car] Harnisch,
Paisley Boney, David Davis, John
Berley, Roger Durham, Theodore
VanLeer, Jim Phillips, Fred Reun-
ing, Jim Froggatt, Dick Holland,
Bruce Rabun, Ed Gerhardt, Davey
Cury, Robert Lutz, Mac Monroe,
Stuart Coco, Mark Rushing, Brad-
ley Smith, John Gregorich, Blair
Belton, Clay Corry, Will Cantler.

WLUR

Washington and Lee
University Radio

91.5

on your FM dial

Listen to WLUR’s coverage of
the top Washington and Lee bas-
ketball games of the season,
including Saturday night’s con-
test against the Wahoos.

 

e

s FOR YOUR EXTRA PIECES OF FURNITURE :
@ =
i *
: Varner & Pole :
; 115 Main St. — Lexington, Va. ;
i

POCeocccccecocoeooceecooosscoe;ooeeooeoooooeocee
seteebtodobededo Sodetofobeboletese
* . . ”
: The First National Bank :
? of Lexington :
:
5 has special checking accounts for students %
Sebebdee Shoes

 

 

 

‘ZZ

 

 

 

STUDENTS!

Make this your headquarters for Good Food

and Service

We have meal tickets at savings to you

SOUTHERN INN

™)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
Thursday, November 29, 1973

Les Grandes Dames de Lexington—

Last of the vanishin g breed

By J. E. B. BEAVER

Most young men as _ students
spend their college days sowing
a few wild oats, having fun with
the girls and indulging in the
vices that become their age so
well .While all this is well and
good the average student does
not include enough variety in his
social and sexual life.

For example, one area of inter-
est which has been ignored by all
but a few brave youngsters is
Lexington society. It is amazing
that something so colorful and
intriguing could be ignored by a
student body which seems to
have an insatiable thirst for so
many ordinary vices.

Lexington is glutted with un-
usual types of people and differ-
ent life styles. Beneath the sur-
face of gentility and charm lies a
whole world which is far from
prosaic. Each segment of society
has its own passion for life ex-
pressed in a different way. The
group of elderly dowagers and
spinsters of the community pro-
vide an interesting example of
the life of which most students
are totally ignorant.

Miss X was a queen of local

society who led quite a revealing
life. As a young woman in the
1890’s she was sent to Paris to
study art. Her study soon became
divorced from the fields of art
and architecture as she tried to
make her life a work of art in it-
self. Perhaps this lady’s most im-
pressive close contact was Zola
whose mistress she was for a
period of time.

When youth and beauty began
to fade she returned to this hill-
billy haven to spend her last
years. Toward the end she began
to carry on long conversations
with her dead sister to which a
W&L student was witness,

Another case worth looking in-
to is the history of the Grissi sis-
ters. These ladies were engaged
to VMI cadets in the 1920’s but
their young men escaped wedlock
and left the sisters high and dry,
so to speak. The Grissi _ sis-
ters then went into a retirement
of shabby gentility. They lived in
a house in town which afforded
them some entertainment, how-
ever. On Sunday mornings they
could be seen perched in their
windows watching the parade of
cadets marching to take the sacra-

Automatic rule notice

The Committee on the Automa-
tic Rule will meet at 10:30 a.m.
on Tuesday, December 18, 1973.
At that time the Committee will
consider the following groups of
students, who have fallen under
the Automatic Rule, for possible
immediate reinstatement:

1. those students who failed
meet the conditions of
Academic probation  re-
quired of them at the end
of the current Fall Term;

2. those students completing
a full academic year who
failed to meet the cumu-
lative average required of
their class.

The Committee
for immediate

will consider
reinstatement all

Dry Cleaning

Linen Service

WE DELIVER

Storage & Free Moth Proofing

students who fall under the Auto-
matic Rule. If any student wishes
to inform the committee of exten-
uating circumstances present in
his case, he may write a letter to
the Committee and deliver it to
the Office of the Dean of the Col-
lege before the time of the Com-
mittee’s meeting.
Academic Probation

Any student who is not subject
to the Automatic Rule in Decem-
ber and who fails to achieve the
cumulative average required of
him at the end of the Fall Term,
(see page 76 in Catalogue) will be
on Academic Probation for the
Winter Term, 1974, and he and
his parents will receive notifica-
tion.

UNIVERSITY
CLEANERS

Reliable Service In

Shirts Laundered

Clothing Repair

463-3622

THE RING-TUM PHI

Page 5

 

ment, making obscene noises and
gestures .

Being Southern belles, they
were constantly trying to keep
up appearances. One of their
many idiosyncrasies was the
habit of raking the leaves at four
in the morning. This was done be-
cause they could not afford to
pay someone else to do the chore
but were unwilling to face the
humiliation of letting everyone
actually see them getting their
hands dirty.

Typical of the local spinsters
were the four old Misses Lymph.
The youngest of the group fin-
ally nursed all the others to the
grave. Being alone she awaited
death anxiously and when the
good Lord refused to grant her
request took matters into her own
feeble hands. At 75 she attempted
suicide and blew it. An affection-
ate student finally stopped Miss
Lymph from her fumbling. at-
tempts.

Many of these elderly grand
dames stubbornly fought to hold
on to the pleasures more char-
acteristic of the young. Miss Scar-
lett Beaubut was such a one. She
became enamoured with a W&L
student and invited him over for
tea one afternoon. After some
light conversation she decided
that the young man was worthy
of her exceedingly desirable com-
pany. She generously offered to
leave him her palacial home and
wealth if he would marry her.
The student kindly declined the
offer of his 85 year old hostess.
She then offered all her treasures
if he would only sleep with her.
Again he refused.

Miss Beaubut was not to be
frustrated easily. She insisted that
he take her collection of antique

china for his presence in her bed-
room. This he also felt: necessary
to decline. Lastly she promised
him an antique commode for 4
kiss and he accepted.

Many of these ladies lived in
the past and refused to conform
to the standards of modern soc-
iety. Mrs. Gramont Berry decided
in 1905 that she liked the current
dress styles and that if the styles
soon called for short dresses it
would eventually return long
dresses to favor. With this in
mind she bought an immense
wardrobe in 1905 which lasted
her until the end of her days.
While young women turned to
mini-skirts in the sixties she
could still be seen parading
through downtown Lexington in
skirts coming down to her ankles.

Mrs. Berry can also be remem-
bered for her generosity. It was
she who gave her collection of
the letters of Lord Alfred Doug!as
to the public library in Big I[s-
land.

Most of these dear ladies have
now departed this life but they
should not be forgotten. Their

(Continued on page 8)

  
  
   

 
 

Wendell’s
Barber Shop —

OPEN 9-6
9 South Jefferson

Closed Wednesday

Washington and Lee University

®Bonkstore

BOOKS

PRESENTS THAT
PLEASE

  
Page 6

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

By BILL AUSTIN

In assessing Washington and
Lee’s basketball fortunes for the
coming season, there exists no
= ick mode of summary, no easy
means by which-to predict victory
totals, or to herald misfortune.

Rather, this year’s squad poses
an intriguing puzzle for any sort
ot analysis. The key to this enig:
ma is the team’s overall vouth.
Only two seniors are among re-
turning players. Yet, in the final
evaluation, this very factor may
spell a real opportunity for im-
provement over last year’s .500
record.

Regardless of the number of
victories or defeats amassed, the
brand of basketball played wiil be
exciting, for Coach Canfield plans
an extensive employment of the
fast-break offense, complemented
bv a pressing, man-to-man de-
fense.

His reasoning for the changed
philosophy is sound, necessary.
The current squad boasts both
depth and speed, essential tools in
the forging of a running, ball-
hawking bunch. Hopefully, the
stepped-up tempo on the court
will improve the shooting percein-
tage that too often hovered under
40% last year. By not allowing
opposing teams to set up their de-
fenses, the Generals should enjoy
a better shot selection.

A vital part of the fast-break
scheme is rebounding. Norm Kris-
toff, the sophomore center plagu-
ed by injuries last year but never-
theless a potential cog in the
W&L attack, emerges as the pivo-
tal figure under the boards. If he
can duplicate his performance of
last Saturday’s scrimmage against

George Mason in which he collect-
ed 18 points and snared 20 re-
bounds, a sizeable portion of this
season’s puzzle will be solved.
Kristoff possesses a quickness
rare for one his size (6’9”); utili-
zation of his speed will ultimate-
ly determine the team’s chances
to maintain a fast pace offen-
sively.

Skip Lichtfuss and Guy Kerr
must share rebounding cheres
with Kristoff, aided substantiaily
by Gary Fitzgerald, the team’s
best leaper. The fast-break tempo
should again help, as it will af-
ford these quick, not-so-tal! for-
wards with an edge in positioning
themselves for follow-up shots.

Obviously, the scoring burden
rests heavily on Lichtfuss, the
senior forward who averaged just
under 20 points per game last sea-
son. In the recent Alumni-Varsity
game, he contributed 28 points in
leading the current Generais to
an 87-73 romp over the Neer-pow-
ered grad-group. His moves and
shooting touch evidenced mid-
season form.

Four guards are expected to
spend almost equal time on the
court this season. Senior Jerry
Porath and sophomore Paul Ma-
loney are to control the offensive
tempo, fulfilling the particularly
demanding role of floor general.
Bowman Williams, a junior with
a rare outside shooting touch,
and John Podgajny, a sophomore,
should provide effective counter-
parts to the playmakers.

Inevitably, pressure defense
produces fouls, but in a single
half against George Mason, W&L
committed 20. The excessive num-
ber reveals the inconsistency of

 

SLICK TIRES

POPULAR SIZES

— 60 Series

— Radials

 

LET US RETREAD YOUR

WE RETREAD MOST ALL

— Small & Large Truck Tires
Also New Good Year Winter Tires

THOMPSON TIRE C0., Ine.

GOOD YEAR
2720 Peach Ave- — Buena Vista, Va.

CALL 261-7431

 

 

 

Thursday, November 29, 1973

Basketball season opens Friday;
Generals face Wahoos Saturday

play that renders this team a
question-mark, especially in the
early going of this year’s sche-
dule. Mental lapses, which result
in fouls or turnovers, are the leg-
acy of inexperience,

The team has practiced six
kinds of defense, but plans to use
the press predominantly. There
is the chance that a Canfield
favorite, the match-up defense,
could be employed, particularly
against teams that do not shoot
well from the outside. Its effec:
tiveness rests on quickness and
communication.

In talking with Jerry Porath
about the season’s prospects, a
marked sense of change from the
past colored his thoughts. He can-
didly admitted that last year’s
mediocre showing “left a bad
taste in everyone’s mouths, es-
pecially the seniors,” and seems
determined to make this, his final
season, a time of which to be
proud. He calls the present squad
“the best conditioned I’ve seen
since I’ve been here.”

Preparation has included work-

outs last spring, strenuous prac-
tice and conditioning sessions be-
ginning this September. Most im-

portantly, “this team wants to
play . it’s a year of enthu-
siasm.” For coach and players
alike, the 1973-74 season is one of
re-dedication, of optimism. In this
sense, youth serves its loftiest
function. The team believes it can
win. However, even as Porath
cautioned, “game time is essen-
tial.”

The initial rush of games pro-
mises to sternly test all hopes, be-
ginning with tomorrow night’s
home contest against obscure, but
challenging Clinch Valley, an 8
p.m. affair. This tiny western Vir-
ginia college knocked off Emory
and Henry last week, without the
services of its leading scorer from
a year ago. The game counts in
the VCAA standings, and thus is
an important one for W&L’s play:
off aspirations.

Saturday night, U.Va’s ACC
delegation makes a visit, com-
plete with big-time names and
awesome talents. Of note, Wally
Walker may not play due to re-
cent knee surgery. Monday, the
Generals trek to Lynchburg, then
return to Doremus for a meeting
with Baltimore College on Wed-
nesday night.

W&L Rugby club ends season;

posts 1-2 record in tournament

The Washington and Lee Rugby
Football Club concluded its fall
season recently in the Washing-
ton, D.C., Seven-a-Sides tourna-
ment, finishing with a 1-2 mark
for the tourney.

The Generals’ first opponent of
the 51 teams in the tourney was
highly seeded Maryland Old Boys’
RFC, Maryland won, 14-4.

W&L then moved to the first
round of the consolation bracket
of the double elimination tourney,
facing the Coast Guard. The W&L
ruggers took the game, 8-4, in
sudden death, Larry Cohen tallied

      
 

fi

   

  
 

a

*

 
  
 

  

KEYDRT-GEVERA
Restaurant and Motel

Truly One of the South’s Finest
Superb Dining and
Picturesque Atmosphere.
Serving Food in the
Fine Tradition of Virginia.
For Reservations Phone 463-2143
Complete Facilities for
‘y Banquets, Weddings & Receptions
it One Mile West of Lexington on U.S. 60

four for the winners in the see:
ond half, and the Coast Guard
duplicated the feat to force the
overtime. Jon Wiegle then tallied
in the overtime for the win.

George Mason eliminated the
W&L squad from further tourney
action, winning over the Generals
in the next round, 6-3. Jim Kahn
tallied for the losers on a penalty
kick.

The Washington RFC won the
tourney, topping the Maryland
“A” team, 24-6, in the finals.

The ruggers resume play in the
spring.

  
    
   
   
   
  
 
  
 

 

 

 

 
Thursday, November 29, 1973

By 3-1 score—

THE RING-TUM PHI

Page 7

 

Soccer team loses season finale to Navy

 

 

An unidentified Washington and Lee soccer player “heads” the
ball in the Generals’ season finale against Navy. The Middies won
the contest, 3-1, in a contest on Wilson Field.

—Photo by Bill Robinson

By BILL AUSTIN

Washington and Lee Univer-
sity’s soccer team finished its
1973 fall season with a 3-1 loss to
the Naval Academy. The defeat
dropped the Generals’ overall
won-lost mark to 7-4, with three
of the losses coming in the final
four games.

W&L opened the chilly, pre-
holiday Saturday contest with a
quick lead, gained on Jim Fox’s
penalty kick. To be sure, the team
matched Navy for toughness and
skill in the initial moments. Its
efforts were fueled by the noise
of the boisterous, fair-sized crowd
on hand at Wilson Field, and by
the persistent tunes of a novice
Pep band.

However, the strength of Navy’s
halfbacks doomed upset hopes.
W&L’s offensive thrusts were
few, as the visitors parlayed
sharp passes and physical play
into a domination of shots (tak-
ing 15 to W&L’s three in the first
half), and ultimately, of score.

The 2-1 half-time Navy lead
came on a pair of goals by Knie-

riem despite Paul Devine’s out-
standing individual efforts as
goalie.

Navy’s domination was made
still more emphatic in the final
stanza when most of the play was
confined to the Generals’ portion
of the field. Tom Panick’s unas-
sisted boot past the outstretched
arms of Devine gave the Middies
a 3-1 margin and a lock on vic-
tory.

Washington and Lee’s fullbacks,
hard pressed by Navy’s classy
offensive penetrations, turned in
a stubborn, praiseworthy per-
formance. In particular, Rolf
Piranian shook off a second-half
injury and fatigue to close out his
collegiate soccer career in a typi-
cally effective fashion. His gradu-
ation will rob the squad of a sign-
ificant portion of its hustle, its
heart.

For the game, Navy boasted a
total of 24 shots, while its two
goalies were pressed to make only
six saves. In sobering contrast,
Wé&L managed just eight shots,
while Devine picked up 20 saves
in a very busy afternoon’s work.

W&L finishes with 2-7 season mark;
Berry leads conference in passing

By BILL FLESHER

To wrap up what has been a
long vear as far as Washington
and Lee football is concerned:

1) The Generals dropped their
season finale back on Nov. 17 in
St. Louis, losing their seventh in
a row at the hands of Washington
University 21-8.

The battling bears controlled
the game all the way, allowing
W&L no net vards rushing. The
Generals’ only score came as a
result of a 96 yard drive in the
final thirty seconds, with Jack

 

Hamric and Sheridan
JEWELERS
Watch and Jewelry Repair
Hand Engraving & Class Rings
463-2022

 

 

 

 

TGIT

Celebration

Thursday in the
Cockpit

5-6 p.m.

Berry passing 38 yards to sopho-
more John Norris for the touch-
down on the game’s last play.

The Washington and Lee de-
fense played one of their better
games of the season, not allowing
a touchdown until late in the third
quarter (Washington’s first TD
came on a punt return in the first
period).

Same old story . half the
team played well, the other half

Final statistics show that W&L
had the most potent passing at-
tack in the Virginia College Ath-
jetic Association.

Even though he played sparing-
lv in three of W&L’s nine games,
Jack Berry was the top passer in
the VCAA. The sophomore, who
took over when senior Lewis
Powell was injured, completed 94
of 188 passes for 1009 yards and
six touchdowns for an average of

 

East Lexington
Grocery

Beer — Ice — Gas
Party Supplies — Snacks
Open 7 days a week
ABC No, 2078—8 a.m.-10 p.m.
SHOP FOR SUNDAY
EVENING DINNER
We Sell & Deliver Kegs

 

 

 

10.4 completions per game.

W&L also had three of the top
receivers in the VCAA. Sopho-
more Mark George (31 catches for
418 yards), freshman Tony Perry
(29 for 420), and senior Jim Far-
rar (25 for 210) were among the
top eight receivers in the confer-
ence,

The Generals ranked first in
team passing, as Berry and Powell
combined to hit 50% of their
passes for 1476 yards, an average
of 164 yards per game.

However, W&L ranked only
sixth in total offense for the con-

Quote of the week

On taking attendance in class:
“All right. I want to see all the
hands of the people who aren’t

here today.”

Paul’s Bike Shop

11 N. New St., Staunton
Phone 886-1310
PAUL Now Accepting All
BIKE REPAIRS at

Sears’ Lexington Store
Pick-Up Every Wednesday
Returned On Wednesday.
Also New 10 Speeds Batavus
Bikes For Sale.

ference, averaging 245 yards per
game. Hampden-Sydney led with
over 300 yards a contest. W&L
was eighth in rushing with only
81 yards per game.

Senior co-captain Bill Wallace
was named to the all-VCAA de-
fensive team. Farrar, offensive
co-captain Bob Brand, Rick Kulp,
and Jeff Opp made the second
team, while Berry, George, Perry,
and linebacker Dave Turk receiv-
ed honofable mention.

 

R/C Theatres
tegal Cinema Fare
in Lexington

State Theatre

12-14 W. Nelson St. 463-3424

ONE BIG WEEK

WALKING TALL

Lyric Cinema
35 8S. Main St. 463-3543

Back By Popular Demand
ONE WEEK ONLY

MASH

 
THE RING-TUM PHI

©6998 88900088808889898088980088S8SS9888SH8889S9SSS

Learn to ski at

SKI LAND

WEEKEND SPECIAL
*Five Lessons
*Rental Equipment
*Sixteen Skiing Hours—Tow Use
*All Inclusive Price—$39
*Advanced Reservations Required
Try Ski Land’s Exciting New Poly-Snow
Surface. You've got to shi it to believe it!
Operating Hours:
Weekdays 2 PM to 11 PM
Weekends & Holidays 9 AM to 11 PM

SKI LAND’S Charlottesville Ski Area

Route 250 East (Shadwell-Charlottesville exit
from Int. 64)

296-8284

SHKSHHSHSHSHSHSSHSHSHHSHHHSHHHSHHSHHHHHHHHDHHHHHHSHHRHSHOHCHHHHHHHEHHHEHHOH®e

09000000088 HOHHHHHHHHHHHHHFHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHOHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHOHHO

Thursday, November 29, 1973

Around campus

Sir Ronald Syme, well-known
classical scholar, will speak Wed-
nesday at Washington and Lee
University on “Oligarchy at
Rome.” His 8 p.m. address in du-
Pont Auditorium is sponsored
jointly by the university’s classics
department and the University
Center In Virginia Inc., and is
open to the public without charge.

Sir Ronald is retired professor
of ancient history at Oxford Uni-
versity in England. He has also
taught at the University of Istan-
bul and as a visiting professor at
Columbia, Sorbonne, Boston Uni-
versity and Haverford College.

% % %

Dr. George Francis Drake, pro-
fessor of French and head of the
department of romance languages
at Washington and Lee, will be-
come president of the Modern
Foreign Language Association of
Virginia in January. Dr. Drake
has been president-elect of the or-
ganization since 1972 and was pro-

gram chairman of its annual
meeting in Richmond this au-
tumn.

4 * a

Dr. C. Westbrook Barritt, pro-
fessor of Spanish at Washington
and Lee, is the author of “Scrim-

shaw,” a collection of poems writ-
ten in the belief that “poetry-

writing is an attempt to make the

absract — love, hope, time and
death — concrete and specific.”
The book is dedicated to Julia

Westbrook Barritt, daughter of
Dr. and Mrs. Barritt. Julia died in
1968 at the age of 12 of cystic
fibrosis.

Dr. Barritt is a 19483 Washing:
ton and Lee graduate with the
MA and Ph.D. degrees from Vir-
ginia. He has taught at the Uni-
versity since 1952.

Les gran d dames

(Continued from Page 5)
contribution to the flavor of life
in Lexington will remain without
them. Their stories are history
but history is still being made in
this hamlet. The student owes it
to his liberal education to indulge
himself in the full life of the com-
munity which surrounds him.
There are many antique com-
modes to be given away to the
man of courage.

A program of experimen-
tal films will be shown Mon-
day in Reid Hall 203. No

admission charge.

 

 

fg

11 North Main

 

Mon. - Fri. Sat.
HRS. 1:00-5:00 10:00 -5:00

 

 

[

ANNOUNCES A

PIPE SALE. 10

NOV. 29—DEC. 6 Only

25 Different Models To Choose From
Give A Christmas Gift You'll Be Remembered For!

11 North Main

per cent
OFF

-

KP

 

ee ee

 

he ate ate ate ate ats te ate alte Me ate weal.
ee ee eee

RO OO OP OOP OF OF OPO OOOO OOF OP OOF OO OO OO OOOO
see ee ee eee eee Ee ee ee eee eee Te ee

TAPES STILL ONLY
$3.98

obese orto oobeteoteoberteobeeofeologeobofestefeoteeofeofeeofesleteobeteotestoteoteteofeotetesteten

*Tokers and Consignment Items not included.

+,

 

3
3
%
%
q
%
2
%
+,
®
%
+
4

ee ee ee ee ee ee

 

 

 

f¢
THE RING-TUM PHI

Washington and Lee University’s Weekly Newspaper

VOL LAAHI

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA, DECEMBER 6, 1973

Number Il

 

Hemorrhage caused student death

By PAUL LANCASTER

A cerebral hemorrhage caused by a
snarp blow to the head has been listed as
the official cause of death of John Stanford
Mever, 18, a freshman at Washington and
Lee,

Meyer died Sunday shortly after 4 p.m.
in Stonewall Jackson Hospital.

The hemorrhage was located on the left
side of the head, apparently caused by a
blow on the opposite side. Such an occur-
rence happens frequently, according to
Rockbridge County Medical Examiner, Dr.
E. V, Brush,

Officials investigating the incident said
they have been unable to determine the
exact time and cause of the blow. Dr. Brush
said the injury could have occurred any-
where from four hours to four days before
jeath.

University officials hypothesize Meyer
mav have received the blow while swim-
ning in the new Doremus pool Saturday
afternoon. According to medical officials,
sfever may have been temporarily stunned
ov the blow and may have been unable
to remember it.

The injury was not visible as it was lo-
cated under Meyer’s hair.

Dr. David Oxley, duputy chief medical
examiner in Roanoke, likened the injury to
one received after a fall where the person
is unable to break the fall.

A meeting was held Monday night at the
Sigma Chi fraternity house, where Meyer
was a pledge, among students, administra-
tion, and Dr. Brush to reconstruct events
preceeding Meyer’s death Sunday afternoon.

Mever may have first showed symptoms
of the injury sometime late Saturday after-
noon. Dr. Brush said he talked with a num-
ber of students who reported Meyer’s ac-
tions may have been somewhat erratic at
that time.

Saturday night, Mever attended a party
at the Sigma Chi house. He was reported
to have consumed some alcohol, which some
officials speculate could have accelerated
the hemorrhage upon Meyer. The alcoho!
had no influence in the causation of the
hemorrhage, or in actually aggravating the
injurv, as far as the medical examiners
have been able to determine.

Meyer first “collapsed,” as medical of-
ficials phrase it, in Freshman Dorm I some
four hours after he had stopped drinking at
the Sigma Chi house. Officials said that
time lapse would rule out the possibility of
Mever collapsing from drinking.

After he collapsed, several freshmen in
the dorm put Meyer in the shower in an
attempt to revive him. They were unable to
do so. They then wrapped him up in a blan-
ket and set up a makeshift bed for him in
the “drving room” adjacent to the showers.

Several times Sunday morning, occu-
pants of the dorm section entered the show-
er area and attempted to wake Meyer up,
but thev were unable to do so and left him
to “sleep it off.”

By about 2 p.m., Meyer was still uncon-
scious in the shower room, and a dorm
counselor called Dr. Brush to the dormitory.
Reports are that Mever had begun to turn
blue in the face at that time.

From the dorm, he was taken to the uni
versity infirmary, where he began experi-
encing breathing difficulties. A respirator
was applied, but Dr. Brush said the respira-
tor was not functioning to his liking, and
he began to apply mouth-to-mouth resuscita-
tion. Several separate sources have denied
reports that there was a shortage of oxygen
in the infirmary. One rescue squad member
was heard to have said that the oxygen sup-
ply in one tank was low. Another tank of
oxygen was available, however.

While at the infirmary, Dr. Brush called
Stonewall Jackson Hospital for a drug for
treatment of intoxication, which was analyz-
ed at the time as possibly the only problem
Mever might have had.

The drug, however, was just recently
placed on the market for hospital use, and
was kept under lock and key in compliance
with federal regulations, according to a uni-
versity official. Apparently, the skeletal
staff at the hospital Sunday afternoon was
unable to locate anyone with a key to get
the drug and take it to the W&L infirmary.

Dr. Brush said he would not have used
the drug anyway, and it would not have
helped Meyer in any Case,

He was then transported to Stonewall
Jackson Hospital, where he died a short
time later.

Meyer was the son of Mr. and Mrs, Stan-
ford T. Meyer of Belleville, Ill. He was born
Aug, 8, 1955, in Fort Smith, Ark.

The funeral was held Wednesday in
Belleville. A memorial service was also held
Wednesday in Lee Chapel.

EC, Pate discuss financial aid situation

By ROBERT PUGH

A discussion with Dean Van
Pate, Director of Financial Aid,
took up most of Monday night’s
EC meeting.

The EC is considering a _ pro-
posal to endorse removal of the
luxury status for cars. Presently,
a percentage of car value is de-

ducted from a student’s financial
aid because cars are considered
luxuries. The Faculty Financial
Aid Committee has the authority
to enact a change.

Currently 38 students have
their awards adjusted because
they own cars. The total amount
involved is $10,600. Removal of
the restriction would increase aid

given to some students and conse-
quently prevent a few new stu-
dents from receiving money.
Two student representatives on
the faculty committee, senior Bill
Hill and junior Bill Lassetter, ap-
peared with Dean Pate. The EC
plans to discuss the matter fur-
ther with the faculty committee.
Mike Brittin and John Killpack

Faculty changes J-school requirements

By STEVE YEVICH

The faculty’s Executive Com-
mittee reported to a closed ses-
sion of the faculty Monday it is
still examining the request made
bv the University Council on Nov.
1 concerning faculty debates. The
UC proposed that a summary of
debate in faculty meetings be
made available to the student
body through the student news
services when asked to do so by
any member of the UC.

A proposal to change the re-
quirements for a major in journa-
lism was approved. Under the
new plan, 29 credits in specific
courses will be required, as op-

posed to twenty-four credits now.
An additional 12 credits, at pre-
sent to be taken from upper-level
courses in the humanities and
social sciences, will be limited to
courses numbered 200 and above
in history, politics, economics and
sociology.

Tabled until the March meet-
ing was a proposal requiring the
UC to consult the faculty prior to
drawing up the school calendar.

A plan to permit freshmen to
be given credit for college work
under the conditions as credit is
given for transfer work was ap-
proved, Also passed were pro-
posals to add three new courses

to the curriculum, one on British
literature and the others on East
Asian history.

The deadline for applications
for independent majors, currently
specified as prior to the begin-
ning, of the junior vear, has been
changed to prior to the end of the
first term of the junior year.

 

Merry Christmas
from

The Ring-tum Phi

 

reported that the Student Activity
Board has spent almost $7900 of
its $15,380 apppropriation. Next
month a Shakespeare week is
planned in conjunction with the
National Shakespeare Touring
Co.’s performance of “As You
Like It.” The play needs 1100
spectators to break even.

Brittin revealed that rock con:
cert promoter “Gabbo” lost $5000
on the Tower of Power concert.
He emphasized that a much lar-
ger attendance is needed next
time if W&L is to have more con-
certs. He deplored the lack of
traditionalism at W&L, pointing
out that many other schools this
size have several big weekends
with a high rate of student in-
volvement.

Lewis Hannah, chairman of the
Mock Convention Committee, re-
ported that his committee has
created various study groups and
is preparing budgets for the next
two years. He hopes to bring a
speaker in May.

Junior Paul Fleming resigned
from the Library Committee. The
EC intends to discuss the library
situation in January with Maurice
Leach, the Universtiy Librarian.
Page 2 THE RING-TUM PHI

 

Independence of independents

Two-thirds of this vear’s freshmen class pledged fraternities fol-
lowing Rush, and now they shall be indoctrinated into the fun and
games of fraternity life at Washington and Lee. But what happens to
the one-third which did not pledge?

Those of the minority have two choices: they can individually seek
active social lives according to their own individual whims, or they
can join the Independent Union, which is roughly equivalent to the
first prerogative.

Just what is the Independent Union? The Student Handbook de-
scribes it as “all students not affiliated with a fraternity, and (it) is
primarily for athletic purposes. All independents interested in par-
ticipating in intramural athletics may subscribe to the Union’s ath-
letic program .... The President of the Independent Union holds a
position on the Student Affairs Committee, from which he furthers
independent interests and viewpoints.”

And the catalog describes the Union as a non-fraternity organiza-
tion “which, like fraternities, sponsors intramural athletic and social
activities.”

But the Independent Union does not sponsor social activities, and
it does little in the way of sponsoring independent intramural teams.
Any group of independents interested in organizing a team for intra-
murals may do so without any acknowledgment from the Union.
Often, two or more independent teams participate in any intramural
sport, if any independent team participates at all.

In fact, no one is quite sure what the function of the Independent
Union is. Its purpose, nominally at least, is to provide a focal point
for the interests of the independents at W&L. This may have been
fine 10 or more years ago when everyone who was anyone joined a
fraternity and independents were merely brushed off as collective
“fish” of sorts. But now independents account for somewhere around
40 percent of the undergraduate student body.

The focus of independent activity, or inactivity, as it were, seems
to be Davis Dorm. Indeed, this is where all the officers of the Union
reside, and this is where elections are held each Spring. The elections
are held in Davis primarily because that is the easiest location for of-
ficers to round up a quorum of 15 students (as required by the con-
stitution of the Union) for elections. And the elections are held, and
the new officers are left with the responsibility of rounding up a
quorum next Spring for elections. There is not much else to do be-
yond that.

Actually, there is little else that can be done beyond that. The
Union certainly cannot force anyone to pay dues to pay for any
activities. There is something like four dollars in the Independent
Union’s treasury. What can a group do with four dollars?

The crux of the problem is that the independents are, well, inde-
pendent. Together they form a mish-mash, a potpourri of individualists
with no common interests besides their individualsm. How does some-
body form a cohesive group of individuals?

The hierarchy of the Independent Union as it now exists is merely
a group of four men elected by what could be called an independent
group of independents within the confines of Davis Dorm who took
the time (all of 15 minutes) to vote their friends into office. So are
the officers elected.

As outlined in the Handbook, the president of the Union does have
a function—to represent independent interests on the Student Affairs
Committee as one of five students and another five faculty and admini-
stration members. The other students are the president of the Inter-
fraternity Council, a Student Bar Association member representing
the law school, chairman of the Student Control Committee, and presi-
dent of the student body. SAC reviews decisions of the Student Con-
tro] Committee.

What the vice-president, secretary, and treasurer do, no one is
quite sure. There are specific “powers” delineated in the Independent
Union constitution, but the sum of these could probably be handled by
the president alone without much help. And so, the Independent Union
is almost an “in name only” organization representing in reality a
small fraction of the 550 or so independents on campus.

The possibility arises, however, that this may be all anybody
really wants out of the Independent Union. The fraternity boys could
certainly care less about the independents, and most independents
could certainly care less about the independents.

Perhaps the Independent Union only has one valid function as it
now exists, and perhaps it should only have one valid function: to
provide a voice for independent views (even if the views are those
of a small percentage of indpendents) wherever those views are
needed.

There is a representative of the Interfraternity Council on the
Student Affairs Committee, and consequently there should be a voice
for independents, too. There should be an independent view to offset
all fraternity views per se in any organization or committee on cam-
pus, save for the IFC itself.

The plight of the independents should be studied, preferably by a
group such as the Executive Committee, to determine what, if any-
thing, can be done to see that the Independent Union is representing
the independent view where needed, and that the Union, for the most
part, is not just an “in name only” organization,

—P.J.L.

Thursday, December 6, 1973

Black rap

Questions

By JOHNNY E. MORRISON

The Washington and Lee Uni-
versity, in the year 1970-71, de-
cided to explore a region of life
which had been treaded upon by
many institutions of higher learn-
ing. These same institutions have
previously done everything un-
der the heavens to exclude a very
important and relevant segment
of society from their Chambers.

Like other institutions in the
country, these private institutions
which cherished hemselves on a
demanding academic environment
in which the professors set high-
er standards for the students
were faced with the fact that
Blacks would no longer be com-
placent and inferiorly oriented.

Washington and Lee’s academ-
ic community has had to make
one of the important and com-
plex decisions in its history. This
decision was important because
it would decide whether the Uni-
versity would follow a pattern of
continuously making the Univer-
sity a haven for those who still
cling to the belief that the world
is all white and it would always
remain all white. It was complex
and challenging in respects that
if the University did choose to ad-
mit Blacks, it would embark on
on a new realm of life on a trial-
and-error basis.

Now that there is over one
percent of the student body who
are Black, the University can,
with both joy and reservation,
sign its name to that “Golden
Plaque” which all institutions of
higher learning sign after they
step in to reality. I say with re-
servation because both the Black
students and University alike
have come to the realization that
in order for the Black student to
be a full and total student, he not
only has to be engrossed in the
books of learning but he also has
to be a happy student who wants
to be an integral part of the stu-
dent body.

In order for the University to
offer the Black students an op-
portunity to be active partici-
pants in the everyday operations
of the school, it must first at-
tempt to ask “itself” what are its

long range goals. Does it—the
University—wish to apply the
maintenance function and con-
tinue to strive on a very undiver-
sified student body, a very undi-
versified Board of Trustees, 4
very undiversified faculty and 3
very undiversified administration
or must it apply the concept of
malleability and change?

This is a perplexing question
which I believe the University
has been seeking an answer and
solution to for the last six year's.
Regardless how perplexing the
question and how arduous it is to
arrive at a solution, it would be a
grave and debililating mistake if
the University spends the next
six years asking that same ques-
tion.

Another area which is pertin-
ent to look at is the curriculum.
This university is considered one
of the best schools in the South.
The question that should be ask-
ed is whether the student is of:
fered a curriculum which can be
applied to his everyday contact
with society after he graduates?
Is the University geared towards
the illimitable freedom of the
body-where every studnt is re-
quired to take five semesters of
physical education and see who
can break the record for making
the most road trips—or is it gear-
ed towards the illimitable free-
dom of the mind-where every stu-
dent is required to take a course
in social problems and present
political thought?

In essence, the University must
conceive of itself as being part of
a changing and diversified society
and project this same thought on
its student body.

The readers of this article may
think that I have digressed from
expounding on one of the many
problems that Blacks encounter
at this university. Well, I have
not because I have not been dere-
lict in this respect. I have only
done what I set out to do; to at-
tempt to show a complacent stu-
den body that many of the prob-
lems that the Blacks have to con-
front face to face are also that
whole student body’s problems.

THE RING-TUM PHI

The Ring-tum Phi is published on Thursdays during the college year.
It is printed by the Journalism Laboratory Press, Washington and Lee
University. The mailing address is Box 899, Lexington, Virginia 24450.
Entered as second class matter September 29, 1946, at the Post Office.
Lexington, Virginia 24450, under the act of March 3, 1879. Subscription
rates: $6.00 for the school year, $3.00 for the semester.

PAUL J. LANCASTER ANDREW J. A. CHRISS

Editor-in-chief Business Manager
a as 5 as a Jess Reeves
I a ss ss as 9 5k ks Bill Austin
ge BO a Bill Robinson
eg ey Palmer Trice, Robert Gurnee
ee a a as as ss Ss Se David Lee
BIO ss a Dave Finnell, John Killpack, Chuck Alt
220. Tim Moore, Steve Yevich, Tom Rittenburg.

Rome Scott, Vance Marlowe, Bill Flesher, Paul Morella
Thursday, December 6, 1973

   

By ROME SCOTT

And then there is Pauline Kael,
film critic for The New Yorker.

After all the others have said
their piece and the din dies down,
she roars out her point of view.

As is true with any other critic,
Miss Kael’s point of view doesn’t
always meet with the public’s ap-
proval and it seldom meets with
that of other critics.

Yet, when others would ac-
quiesce she continues to blast
away at movies she doesn’t like,
and support those she does, with
the fervor of one who feels she
knows what she’s talking about—
as if she’s the only one.

Whether she is criticising
movies as “tawdry, corrupt art

as

Inside-Out

 

MED
SCHOOL
ADMISSION
PROBLEMS?

KuroMed
may offer RX via
overseas training

For the session starting Fall,
1974, Euromed will assist quali-
fied American students in gain-
ing admission to recognized
overseas medical schools.

And that’s just the beginning.
Since the language barrier con-
stitutes the preponderate dif-
ficulty in succeeding at a for-
eign school, the Euromed pro-
gram also includes an inten-
sive 12 week medical and con-
versational language course,
mandatory for all students.
Five hours daily, 5 days per
week (12-16 weeks) the course
is given in the country where
the student will attend medical
school.

In addition, Euromed provides
students with a 12 week inten-
sive cultural orientation pro-
gram, with American sudents
now studying medicine in that
particular country serving as
counselors.

Senior or graduate students
currently enrolled in an Ameri-
can university are eligible to

 

participate in the Euromed
program,

For application and further
information, phone toll free,
(800) 645-1234
a

or write,

Huromed, Ltd.

170 Old Country Road
Mineola, N.Y. 11501

 

 

 

for a tawdry, corrupt world” or
praising them as “the most total
and encompassing art form we
have,” she never ceases to care.

As Kenneth Paul Shorey, film
critic for The Birmingham News,
put it, “Pauline Kael takes every
movie she sees as being addressed
to her personally.”

Since she became film critic for
The New Yorker in 1968, she has
become notorious, if not famous,
among filmgoers and film critics
alike.

And all shake their heads and
wonder what makes her tick.

[ asked her in a telephone con-
versation what her standards for
judging movies are, and Miss
Kael answered, “Nobody in any
art has any standards. You just
use everything you've got.”

She added that her background
and experience have much to do
with how she sees a movie.

“The critic puts his own experi-
ence on the line so you have a
picture of the critic through his
writing. What matters is what
shows in the critiques,” she said.

She admits her evaluations are
based largely on her “gut reac-
tion” to a movie.

And that gut reaction is based
on many in tangibles—her knowl-
edge of films and directors, her
experience as a critic, her per-
sonal background and others.

She does not base her opinion
on how the other critics see a
film, how the public likes it or
on industry promotions but slams
Academy Award winners as well
as recognized losers.

She never slams without reason
but, when she dislikes a film, she
pulls no punches in telling why.

Themes aren’t the only part of
a picture that is subject to her
pen pounding and almost every
facet of a film is socked at one
time or another,

Camera technique, photography,
director, actors and actresses —
nothing escapes comment if it’s
significant.

Miss Kael explodes at “Dr. Zhi-
vago.”’

“Tt isn’t shoddy (except for the
music), it isn’t soap opera; it’s
stately, respectable and dead: the
photography static, the comings
and goings without rhythm,” she
said.

The surprising discovery is that
all this comes from the same critic
who honestly enjoyed “The Planet
of the Apes” as “one of the best
science-fiction fantasies ever to
come out of Hollywood.”

Pauline Kael is difficult, if not
impossible, to pin down when it
comes time to figure out what
will be damned and what will be
praised,

And those who. sit around,
scratch their noses and hope to
make the discovery will be scrat-
ching a long time.

Not only are they wasting their
time, they are missing the point:
Whether Pauline Kael likes or
dislikes a particular film is only
important because of the reasons
she gives for delivering her ver-

(Continued on page 5)

   

THE RING-TUM PHI

Page 3

 

Record Review

Santana’s newest-
Where it came from

By W. PATRICK HINELY

Santana’s new Welcome (co-
lumbia PC 32445) is consistent
with his previous non-live albums
in its excellence. The production
job by Carlos, drummer Mike
Shrieve, and keyboard man Tom
Coster puts a lot of potentially
centrifugal elements together
quite well.

With help from the likes of
Leon Thomas, Joe Farrell, and
Flora Purim, Santana has shifted
his role as a musician from that
of an originator to that of a chan-
nel. As a creative force, Santana
has always been good but rather
limited. His albums with Mc-
Laughlin (who also appears on
one cut of the new record) show-
ed how Carlos is capable of en-
larging his style through absorb-
ing elements from the styles of
others. Welcome is a continuation
of this process.

The one influence who comes
to mind first is Airto Moreira, a
Brazilian percussionist who, like
many “names” in jazz, started
many “names” in jazz, started
his American career with Miles
Davis. (Miles Davis at Fillmore,
Columbia G30088).

To date, Airto has four albums
of his own. The first two, Na-
tural Feelings (Buddah BDS 21-
SK) and Seeds on the Ground
(Buddah BDS 5085), are largely
native Brazilian music played by,
yes, native Brazilians. Airto
knows a lot of good musicians
from back home, and they help
him make his records.

His third album, Free (CTI
6020), showcases two of today’s
leading keyboard wizards, Keith
Jarrett and Chick Corea. Corea’s
“Return to Forever” is given a
beautiful rendition on this record,
and the song serves as an excel-
lent introduction to the man who
may well be the best keyboard
man around today. (more about
him in my next piece).

Fingers (CTI 6028), Airto’s lat-
est, bears the closest direct resem-
blance to Santana, or vice-versa,
for Fingers was finished while
Santana was just getting started
on Welcome. Airto’s new sound
is a cooled-out funky latino-elect-
ric easy-going kind of music, if
you can dig that.

Santana’s new sound is very
much like it, though you can
still tell its origins were in the
best LSD tradition of San Fran-
cisco; Airo didn’t have that bar-
rier to overcome. He just started
in the open spaces of Brazil, and
it’s his new band, also Brazilians,
but somewhat younger who add
the electricity.

South Americans seem to have
a way of playing with a lot of
feeling. Some music closely akin
to Santana and Airto, though in
a distinctly different vein, is that
of Gato Barbieri. Most of today’s
“acknowledged” saxophonists
tend to be on the abstract side

‘

(also called
“noisy”).

Gato is the exception. His plav-
ing is consistently lyrical, as well
as beautiful. Airto does some ex:
cellent percussion and drumming
on Gato’s latest “new” album,
Bolivia (Flying Dutchman 10158).

A more recent record has been
released on the Impulse label,
but it is meretly-old-tracks Gato
did with some fellow Argentinans
back in the ’60’s. His best record.
to date, for my money, is Under
Fire (Flying Dutchman 10156),
which also features Airto, along
with bassist Stan Clarke (now
with Corea’s new band), conga
player James M’tume, and pian-
ist Lonnie Liston Smith. Gato has
an amazing ability to get a good
band going full force and then
scream over the top of them and
take the total sound even higher.

Other names come to mind on
the subject of latin music. Baden
Powell, the Brazilian guitarist,
has a mere 34 albums out now.
Unfortunately, none of them are
on American labels and are thus
hard to get. The three I’ve heard
have been very impressive.

He tends to be very emotional
in his writing and playing, but it
comes across powerfully because
he’s such a master guitarist
Powell never has taken more than
three days to make a record, and
the ones I’ve heard don’t have
any mistakes. I guess he just does
it right the first time.

A Brazilian who is_ probably
maikng more waves on the air-
waves than any other these days,
in the States that is, is Eumir
Deodato. His first album, Prelude
(CTI 6021) contained the latin
version of the 2001 theme which
made it so big a short ways back.
As it turns out, that was almost
the weakest cut on the album.

Deodato is the only man I’ve
heard who can use a lot of orches-
tration without it bogging down
in a kind of muzak-like swamp.
His new album, Deodato Two
(CTI 6029), is even more promis:
ing. He straddles the borderline
between easy listening and pro-
gressive jazz, blending elements
of the two genres quite well.

And it’s a small world. Deodato
is also the man who arranged
Antonio Carlos Jobim’s Stone Flo.
wer album (CTI 6002) a few
vears back. That record contains
the original version of the title
song, which Santana made known
to the rock audience with a fine
electrified rendition on the Cara.
vanserai album of last year.

Airto’s wife, Flora Purim, who
does vocals on all his records,
also sings on the new Santana
album. Tom Coster, Santana’s
keyboard man and co-producer,
formerly with Gabor Szabo, hung
out with Airto and Flora for a
while, too. Funny how musical
styles get around and who ends
up getting credit for them.

‘squeaky” or just
BE Oe
Bei

THE RING-TUM PHI

Thursday,

December 6, 1973

 

Back campus work nearly finished —

Work is underway and in some
instances nearing completion at
Washington and Lee University
on several construction projects
totaling more than $1.1 million in
value.

The projects include addition of
eight all-weather tennis courts,
construction of a new mainten-
ance building, addition of cooling
facilities for campus _ buildings,
various lighting, landscaping and
grading projects, major improve-
ments to water supplies on the
“new” campus to the west of the
historic campus area, and devel-
opment of parking areas and ac-
cess roads in the vicinity of new
construction.

A)) the projects are part of the
capital portion of Washington and
Lee’s $56-million development
program. More than $24 million
of that sum has been earmarked
for physical additions, improve-

ents and restoration.

New tennis courts

The eight new tennis courts
are to be located immediately be-
hind Wilson Stadium, on two
levels. They are being built of
specially formulated asphalt to
permit their use under any con-
litions, and the university anti-
cipates they will be ready in the
spring.

Griswold, Winters, Swain &
Mullin of Pittsburgh, Pa., design-
ed the two-tiered tennis court
site and nearby spectator areas.
The firm has been Washington
ind Lee’s landscape architect in

ch portion of the development
rogram and other recent cam-
us improvements.

Maintenance building

"

1e new maintenance building

—to replace the old facility, which
will be removed to permit other
campus construction — is located
on the edge of the university’s
pine forest, near the baseball field
to the northwest of the site for
the new law school building.

The new maintenance build-
ing will be connected with both
U.S. GO at the edge of the campus
and internal roads leading to the
new law building. University of-
ficials estimate the maintenance
building will be completed by
March.

Other contracts

Other contracts and_ projects
completed or in progress are:

—Grading and paving new ac-
cess roads, related site prepara-
tion, and development of new
parking lots near the new Dore-
mus Gymnasium just off U.S. 60
(Charles W. Barger & Son of Lex-
ington, general contractor), al-
most completed;

—Exterior lighting at the gym-
nasium addition and in parking
lots and on the law school access

 

FOR RENT
4 Room Apartment
463-4891

Roommate for
Sale—Swap

$30.00 or best offer.
Will accept equivalent value
in stereo records. Good con-
dition. I’ve only had him
three months: Call Lee, at
463-2322 for details.

road (Davis H .Elliot Co. Inc. of
Roanoke), with work scheduled
to begin shortly;

—Planting and __ landscaping
near Doremus Gymnasium and at
the new parking lots by the gym
(Waynesboro Nurseries), continu-
ing;

—Additions and improvements
to water service in the athletic
stadium area; and

—Development of walkways,
fences and related improvements
to serve new and expanded athle-
tic fields.

In all, contracts for the various
projects total $1,101,000, the uni-
versity said.

ws eee eon ofoteafeoenfnteoenteeatesteoesteaesfeodenfeoesfeofenteoesteoendestestenfeobrfeteotestentesdetectofestateste ce

3 The First National Bank

‘ of Lexington

= has special checking accounts for students
Tete deieeebehbiebeteledeeedebobbnietbtebbeedebbiett

%

™%

Other capital projects alread
undertaken in the decade-long
Washington and Lee development
program include construction of
the new law center, Lewis Hall,
$7.4 million (to be completed by
September, 1975); a major ad
tion to Doremus Gymnasium and
renovation of the old structure
$3.25 million (completed last
vear); erection of 40 apartments
accommodating 178 students, $1.4
million (to be completed by next
September), and expansion of the
university’s central utility plant
to provide a central cooling faci-
lity, $1.1 million (to be complete
in 1975).

«+

i ie ll
gt Mgt Oye es

ea of vfs ys % % of

 

Tf,

 

 

 

STUDENT S$!

Make this your headquarters for Good Food

and Service

We have meal tickets at savings to you

SOUTHERN INN

J

 

 

 

 
 

 

Thursday

. December 6,

1973

THE RING-TUM PHI

Page 5

 

a schools disdain P-F

By TIM MOORE

Students whose academic rec-
ords include a substantial amount
of pass-fail courses are at a dis-
tinct distadvantage in applying to
graduate and professional schools
according to a recent nationwide
educational survey.

An article in the fall issue of
Educational Record by Edward I.
Stevens reported that admission
officers at more than 300 gradu-
ate schools thought that evalua-
tion of pass-fail grades was “ex-
tremely difficult, if not imposs-
ible’. Stevens asserts that pass-
fail grades are the most disad-
vantageous at professional
schools.

“The greater the proportion of
a student’s record which is re-
ported in terms of a non-tradi-
tional grading system, the greater
the potential for difficulty in en-

Wendell’s
Barber Shop

OPEN 9-6

9 South Jefferson

 

Closed Wednesday

 

 
    
  
   
   
 

tering another
Stevens.

institution,” wrote

“Non-traditional grading
tems” include almost any scale
other than the A-F gamut. The
survey showed that many schools,
in the case of a transfer student,
Wet Ol actept @ =D gerade.
which a “P” in some cases repre-
sents. Another antipathy that ad-
mission officers have for the P-F
system is the time required to
evaluate the student’s work.
Writes one admissions officer of
a major university.

sys-

“At present the task of evalua-
tion requires much reading and
interpretation of grades, recom-
mendations, and activities. To add
copious evaluation in lieu of
grades would be frowned upon in
light of 5500 applications.”

Also, the survey indicated that
students graded on a_pass-fail
basis have difficulty in obtaining

financial aid at most graduate
schools.
For prospective law students,

increasing emphasis on the evalu-
ation of LSAT scores is occuring
when a student’s record shows a
large number of pass-fail courses.
In these cases the law school
scores are the only measurement
of a student’s aptitude.

Stevens also pointed out some
impressive difference that exist
between undergraduate colleges

Need Extra Cash

STUDENT LOANS AVAILABLE
NO AGE RESTRICTION

PEOPLES Finance Service

OF LEXINGTON

121 W. Nelson

$

Phone 463-3176

$

 

Dry Cleaning

Linen Service

WE DELIVER

UNIVERSITY
CLEANERS

Reliable Service In

Storage & Free Moth Proofing

Shirts Laundered

Clothing Repair

463-3622

and graduate or _ professional
schools: “ oo per cent of the
undergraduate institutions view

the credit-no credit system as de-
sirable, acceptable, or presenting
only minor problems while only
17 per cent of graduate schools of
arts and sciences, 14 per cent of
law schools, and 6 per cent of
medical schools feel similarly.”

Stevens suggests that those “less
than highly prestigious” institu-
tions which adopt a nonstandard
grading system should plan to as-
sist those students who “opted”
for a large number of pass-fails
and who are applying to graduate
or professional schools, “with es-
pecially comprehensive letters,
annotated grade reports, and
other devices.”

NOTICE

There will be a mandatory
meeting for all present.and pro-
spective WLUR-FM staff mem-
bers Tuesday, January 8 at 7 p.m.

NOTICE

FRATERNITY MEMBERS eat-
ing at Evans Dining Hall are re-
minded that on Wednesday, Dec.
12, the Faculty Christmas Ban-
quet will be held in Evans Hall
and that all fraternity members
are to eat AT THE HOUSE on this
Wednesday night in lieu of their
regular night at the house.

Meals will be served for
fraternity members only
5:30-6:00 sharp.

non-
from

Inside Out

(Continued from page 3)
dict.

Whatever the decision, her mo-
tives are sincere and her reason-
inz solid,

Joseph Morgenstern, of News-
week, acknowledges this in an
article, “The Moviegoer.”

“She seems to have much more
inventiveness and stamina, not to
mention durable wisdom, than
the bedraggled business she’s
writing about,” he said.

There are movies, there are cri-
tics and there is the movie indus-
wry.

And then there is Pauline Kael.

 

A Christmas Gathering
for the
Washington and Lee University Community

Eggnog, beer, music, and Santa Claus

Corkpit Ber. 7, 1973

4:00-6:00

Sponsored by Che University Center
Committee X AKA. Slater Fond.

Washington and Lee University

Bonkstore

BOOKS

PRESENTS THAT LAST
Page 6

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

Thursday, December 6, 1973

>

B-ball Generals shine, then stumble

Clinch Valley 47 of
WEL 69 U- Va. 92
\' Lynchburg C. 81
By BILL AUSTIN
Washington and Lee opened its
-74 basketball season with a
pair of weekend games against
Clinch Valley and the University

and cam¢

Virginia,

expected, with a split. Yet, the

away, as

convincing 84-47 romp over Clinch
Valley, c

sively

uupled with an
|

impres-
ympetative showing

touted
bunch seemed to indicate a resur-

gence in W&L’s B-ball fortunes.

‘a ' sees
Charlottesvilles

against

“They do not love
that do not show their love.”
William Shakespeare

e101 ee,

Choose Keepsake
with complete confidence,
because the famous
Keepsake Guarantee
assures a perfect
engagement diamond
of precise cut and
superb color, There is
no finer diamond ring.

Keepsake

1AMOND RINGS

REGISTERED

ELDORADO

 

Rings from $100-$10,000
T-M Reg. A.H. Pond Co.

 

aa ae 7]

 

 

 

 

| HOW TO PLAN YOUR ENGAGEMENT AND WEDDING |

| Send 20 pg. booklet, “Planning Y: ‘edding”

full euler fol ; and a vs, Bride's ‘hook gift offer all ins 25¢. Py |

| Name i

| Add I

|
State Zip |
KEEPSAKE DIAMOND RINGS, BOX 90, SYRACUSE, N.Y. 13201

Then came Monday night’s loss
at Lynchburg College, a game in

which a considerable second-half

lead proved insufficient. Thus,
going into Wednesday’s contest
with Baltimore, VCAA play-off

hopes were shelved, at least tem-
porarily, for the more basic con-
siderations of a .500 pre-Christmas
standing.

In the opening period against
Clinch Valley, the Generals par-
layed outside shooting and the
ineptitude of their opponents’
ball-handling into an insurmount-
12-21 half-time = lead. The
W&L attack operated almost flaw-
lessly at times, particularly when
allowed to run. The shuffling of
guard combinations kept the Gen-
erals’ floor leadership fresh, the
Clinch Valley turnover rate high.
Indeed, the visitors often appear-
ed unable to set up any sort of
fluid offensive pattern, being self-
made victims of numerous travel-
ing violations and errant passes.

Only the capable shooting of
center Pete Vance (16 points)
kept CV close to any measure of
respectability, as the Generals
threatened to turn the second-
half rout into a humiliation.

Particularly, Norm Kristoff dis-
plaved flashes of great ability
early in the final stanza, controll-
ing the boards and scoring several
closely-bunched baskets, totaling
11 points for the night. Coach
Canfield substituted freely, em-
ploying 14 players in the build-
ing of the final, 37-point margin.

Guard play highlighted the vic-
tory, especially the blistering ac-
curacy of junior Bow Williams.
His ability to bomb from outside
20 feet gave him 21 points, to lead
the scoring attack. (Lichtfuss add-
ed 15).

able

Saturday night’s annual affair
against big-time Virginia offered
far more excitement than merely
an opportunity to see an ACC
team in Doremus. To be sure, for
the sizeable number of Cavalier
fans who journeyed to Lexington
anticipating a rout, the game was
a rude awakening.

In fact, W&L controlled much
of the opening half’s play, man-
handling Virginia’s starting
guards Al Drummond and Andy
3oninti. Only Gus Gerard’s sizz-
ling shot-percentage kept the Wa-
hoo’s attack functional in the in-
itial going. W&L held a 16-14 edge
six minutes into the half, and had
Virginia coach Bill Gibson search-
ing his bench for personnel able
to counter the tough W&L per-
formance.

Unfortunately, he found them.
With the score deadlocked at 20,
freshman Bill Langlogh and sen-
ior Bob McKeag entered the
game, and the style and tempo of
the contest were radically altered.
Langlogh’s poise belied his first-
status in giving his team
sharp passes, defensive quickness,
and effective shooting. The W&L
zone, so impressive in the early
minutes, McKeag utiliz-
ed his bearish bulk and hot hand

vear

cracked.

» muscle smaller Gen

past the
eral forwards for crucial points
n, cruelly, a dismal stretch of
cold shooting plagued W&L, and a
30-28 U.Va. advantage
to 44-32, at half-time.
However, the Generals were in
no way subdued. Outstanding play
by Norm Kristoff, who finished
with 16 points and a similar num-

rebounds,

ballooned

ber of outclassed the
likes of Lanny Stahurski and Ed

Schletick, closing the gap to seven

points in early second-half mo-
ments.
Again, disturbingly, the Gen

erals’ field-goal accuracy suffered,
particularly from the outside
W&L guards, stellar performet

in Friday’s victory, managed but
seven baskets in 29 attempts from
the floor. Also, turnovers result
ing from the Virginia press undid
the Generals midway through the
final stanza, as a 10-point differ-
ence swelled to 20.

In contrast, Virginia’s shooting
percentages fattened, as McKeag
and Wally Walker both enjoyed a
profitable scoring half. For the
game, McKeag poured in 16
points, while Walker’s combined
quickness and size enabled him
to tally 22, the game-high.

The Generals, though losers by
23, actually took more shots and
gathered more rebounds’ than
their taller, well-scholarshipped
adversaries. However, a 33% field
goal percentage severly damaged
the cause, especially when juxta
posed to U.Va.’s 52% mark.

Skip Lichtfuss fared well indi
vidually for the night, a genuine

scoring threat from inside and
out_seoring 21 points to lead
W&L’s offensive totals. Of note,
John Podgajny’s late-game pet-

formance kept excitement intact,
as he hustled for 10 points and
played aggressive defense in the
already-determined contest.

Wrestlers open
on winning note

Washington and Lee Univer-
sity’s wrestling team opened its
season with a sound 37-4 thrash.

ing of Eastern Mennonite one
week ago last Wednesday. In-

deed, in the contest, the Generals
won all but one match.

Gaining pins were Doug Ford
at 177 and Bill Cole at 190. Win-
ning decisions were Lee Keck at
118, Jim Crytzer at 142, Jim Stieff
at 150, Norman Goodman at 158,
tick Heldrich at 167 and Dave
Knack at unlimited. Don Ove
dorff won his 126-pound match by
forfeit.

Last night, the Generals took
on Lynchburg College at Lynch
burg. The meet was the final one
for Coach Gary Franke’s team be
fore a month-long break for
and Christmas. The out
come of the confrontation was un
available at press time.

The squad resumes action in
1974 with a Januarv 8 meet al
Baltimore Loyola.

exams

 

 
Thursday, December 6,

1973

 

Gary Fitzgerald lays one up in Friday night’s win over Clinch

Valley.

—Photo by Lee Eagen

WEL swimmers defeat ODU

The Washington and Lee swim-
ming Generals began their season
Saturday with a 71-42 victory
over the Monarchs of Old Domi-
nion University. In past years the
contests between Old Dominion
and Washington and Lee have
been close, which makes the final
score of this season’s face-off all
the more satisfying for Coach Bill
Stearn’s tankers. W&L took first
olace in every swimming event
but the last relay.

Junior team captain, Will
Brotherton (senior Steve Erick-
son Was co-captain with Brother-
ton until several weeks ago when
he left the team for personal rea-
sons), helped pace the team as a
member of the 400 yard medley
relay, and by taking a first place

Paul’s Bike Shop

11 N. New St., Staunton
Phone 886-1310

PAUL Now Accepting All

BIKE REPAIRS at

Sears’ Lexington Store

Pick-Up Every Wednesday

Returned On Wednesday.

Also New 10 Speeds Batavus

Bikes For Sale.

 

East Lexington
Grocery

Beer — Ice — Gas
Party Supplies — Snacks
Open 7 days a week
ABC No, 2078—8 a.m.-10 p.m.
SHOP FOR SUNDAY
EVENING DINNER
We Sell & Deliver Kegs

 

 

 

in the 200 yard butterfly. Brother-
ton was joined on the winning
relay by Rob Searles, Rich Koch
and Jim Howard.

Searles, a sophomore from
Gainesville, Fla., was the leading
scorer in the meet, as he took
firsts in the 200 yard individual
medley and the 200 yard_ back-
stroke as well as contributing to
the victory by the first relay.

Tad Van Leer, a freshman, won
both the 50 and 100 yard freestyle
events, while sophomore Bill
Tiers took both the 200 and 500
yard freestyle events.

Porter McNeil, a freshman, won
the 1000 yard free event and took
a second place in the 500 yard
freestyle. Craig Graham complet-
ed the impressive sweep of first
places by taking the 200 yard
breaststroke,

The Generals will open their
home season with a double-dual
meet on Jan. 5, when they take
on teams from Gettysburg and
Muskingum in the new pool at
2 p.m.

  
   
   
   
       
 
 

THE RING-TUM PHI

Page 7

 

VISA names 5 Generals
to soccer all-star squad

Washington and Lee has placed
five men on the Virginia Intercol-
legiate Soccer Association (VISA)
All-Star Team, ineluding lineman
Jim Fox on the first team.

Fox, a junior, was the Generals’
leading scorer as W&L posted a
7-4 overall record.

Four Generals made the All-
Star second team: lineman John
Embree, backs Barclay Arm-
strong and Rolf Piranian, and

Automatic Rule

The Committee on the Automa-
tic Rule will meet at 10:30 a.m.
on Tuesday, December 18, 1973.
At that time the Committee will
consider the following groups of
students, who have fallen under
the Automatic Rule, for possible
immediate reinstatement:

1. those students who failed
meet the conditions of
Academic probation § re-
quired of them at the end
of the current Fall Term;

. those students completing
a full academic year who
failed to meet the cumu-
lative average required of
their class.

The Committee will consider
for immediate reinstatement all
students who fall under the Auto-
matic Rule.

hN

Academic Probation

Any student who is not subject
to the Automatic Rule in Decem-
ber and who fails to achieve the
cumulative average required of
him at the end of the Fall Term,
(see page 76 in Catalogue) will be
on Academic Probation for the
Winter Term, 1974, and he and
his parents will receive notifica-
tion.

 

Hamric and Sheridan
JEWELERS
Watch and Jewelry Repair
Hand Engraving & Class Rings
463-2022

 

 

 

@ KUYDET-CENERAL
Restaurant and Motel

Truly One of the South’s Finest
/ Superb Dining and
Picturesque Atmosphere.
Serving Food in the
Fine Tradition of Virginia.
For Reservations Phone 463-2143

 
 

 

Complete Facilities for '
'; Banquets, Weddings & Receptions
a One Mile West of Lexington on U.S. 60 “4K

goalie Paul Devine. All are jun-
iors except Piranian, a senior.

The all-star team members par-
ticipated in the annual All-Star
Game between the VISA’s eastern
and western divisions Saturday at
Madison College. The game ended
in a 1-1 tie.

 

 

YOUTH
FARES 10

 

 

*200

Ages 12 thru 23

= —

Round-trip jet, New York to
Luxembourg in the heart of
Europe, Sept. thru May for
stays of up to a year. Show
proof of age. Book within 30
days of your flight.

YOU CAN BE IN
EUROPE TOMORROW!

Icelandic Airlines also offers
one-week car, rail and ski
tours to Europe, Nov. thru
March. Get details on our
youth and student fares and
lowest-cost tours to Europe
of any scheduled airline. See
your travel agent.

 

0: Icelandic Airlines
630 Fifth Ave., N. Y., N. Y. 10020
(212) PL 7-8585. Toll Free outside
N. Y. State (00) 221-9760

Send folder CN on Lowest Youth
Fares to Europe [] Tours []

 

|

|

|

|

Name |
Street |
City /
State Zip |
My travel agent is |
!

 

 

fro

ICELANDIC:

 

Your Travel Agent
In Lexington

TRAVEL UNLIMITED
21 \. Washington
463-7174

tor
information, brochures
and reservations

 
THE RING-TUM PHI

Page 8

 

 

 

 

 

 

a

The National Shakespeare Company

AMERICA’S TOURING CLASSICAL
REPERTORY COMPANY

 

presents

AS YOU LIKE I

January 18, 1974 — 8:00 p.m.
DOREMUS GYMNASIUM
sponsored by W&L Student

Activities Board

Culture Committee

Thursday, December 6, 1973

6069006099805 098009908609588098988209900993999098288999888

FOR YOUR EXTRA PIECES OF FURNITURE

Varner & Pole

115 Main St. — Lexington, Va.

@6666686666

9006009980003 60099009990099086009606999999988899068

 

 

LET US RETREAD YOUR
SLICK TIRES

WE RETREAD MOST ALL
POPULAR SIZES

— 60 Series
— Radials

— Small & Large Truck Tires

 

Also New Good Year Winter Tires

THOMPSON TIRE C0., Inc.

GOOD YEAR
2720 Peach Ave: — Buena Vista, Va.

CALL 261-7431

 

 

 

 

11 North Main

 

 

 

 

seg Mattress”

PIPES ? Foam Pad

; 10 per cent off ; Liner

‘Till Thurs Dec: 6:

Setetetebobbobopetedetog ‘Deal’ Price
tax
TOTAL
MON. - FRI. SAT.
HRS.: 1:00 - 5:00 10:00 - 5:00

Just received it’s first shipment of

WATERBEDS

You are challenged to find a better deal!

11 North Main

$17.95

oa A FIVE year guar-
Fg.45 antee is included
26.92 With use of a frame,
1.08 liner, & pad.
$28.00

 

 

“Single, Double, Queen, King

sonal
THE RING-TUM PHI

Washington and Lee University’s Weekly Newspaper

 

VOW beset:

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA, JANUARY 10, 1974

Number 12

 

Town and gown relations seem to be improving, as evidenced by
this photo of the Lexington Fire Department lending a hand to
biology professor Cleveland P, Hickman, Jr., in

 

fishtank to the top floor of New Science for use in his research,

‘aising a large

 

Applications are currently
being accepted by the Publica-
tions Board for the position of
editor-in-chief of the Ring-tum
Phi for a one-year appoint-
ment from January, 1974 to
January, 1975.

Election Willi take piace
Tuesday, Jan. 22, in the Publi-
cations Board office in the Uni-
versity Center. The Publica-
tions Board will meet at 7:00
p.m, in the University Center.

Applications for the position
should include:

 

—a brief letter of intent;
—a personal resume _ (ap-
proximately 10 copies) contain-
ing academic and extracurricu-
lar data and information perti-
nent to employment on vari-
ous publications. The resume
should be in outline form.

The personal appearance be-
fore the board is expected to
Presentations of
ylans, thoughts, and proposals
1ay be made in written out-

be brief.
I
n

Lie.

 

 

National Shakespeare

will perform here

The National Shakespeare Com-
pany will present William Shake-
speares “As You Like It” Friday,
Jan. 18 at 8:50 p.m. in new Dore-
mus Gymnasium.

iHe—piay 1s sponsored py the
Culture Committee of the Student
Activities Board.

Tickets for the play may be ob-
tained in the Washington and
Lee Bookstore, Tickets are $2 in
advance and $2.50 at the door.

“As you Like It” is a comedy
concerning the trials and tribula-
tions of love. The forest of Arden
is the setting of the romance,
away from the political world of
the Court. Here a Duke dethroned
bv his brother who lives in exile
with a small crew of followers.

Jan. 18 in Doremus

Through various circumstances
many others are soon inhabitants
of the forest. Among the newcom-
ers are the Duke’s daughter,
Rosalind his niece, and Orlando
who is in love with Rosalind.

Once the main characters of the
play have moved from Court to
country the involvement of the
plot become evident. Rosalind
and her cousin escape in disguise,
thus Orlando does not recognize
them. The complications are a re-
sult of this deception on the part
of the women. In this play the
characters create their own prob-
lems and almost lose control of
the situation. However, all is fin-
ally revealed, and the play ends
on a happy note with the promise
of feasting and weddings.

Former students convicted
of drug distribution here
reed over winter break

Seven former Washington and
Lee students and three Lexing-
ton area men sentenced last vear
for distribution of illegal drugs
were released from prison over
the holiday break.

The 10 were released Dec. 22
after Judge Paul A. Holstein sign-
ed orders suspending the remain-
der of the jail terms for the men.

The men were arrested in a
drug raid by state and local po-
lice one year ago last November
and were sentenced last spring
and summer.

The former Washington and
Lee students released are Dan E.
Silberberg, Joel H. Holt, Kevin
P. Darby, Alan D. Corwith, Wil-
liam G. Hummer, Douglas B.
Bruell, and Jeffrey A. Rosenberg.

Bruell and Rosenberg were re-
leased after paying $7,334 and $7,-
403 in fines, respectively.

The three area men released
were Stanley B. Coffey of Buena
Vista and Kenneth L. Gilliam and
Carlton D. Shiflett of Glasgow.

The men have all been placed
on probation for periods ranging
from three to 30 years.

All 10 were serving 12 month
terms, except for Rosenberg and
Giliam, who were each sentenced
to 24 months. All were eligible for

parole after serving eight months

Two other men arrested in the
November drug raid, Wayne L
Carter and Donald Lynn of Buena
Vista, are currently serving five
vear terms in the state penitenti-
ary.

Judge Holstein said he had re-
ceived favorable reports on the
10 released men from probation
and corrections officials, and he
felt supervision in custody was no
longer necessary and further in-
carceration could be detrimental.

Most of the men were serving
their terms at Bland Correctiona!
Farm. Silberberg, serving former-
lv at Bland, was moved to Rock:
bridge County Jail, while Coffey
was sent to the Dublin Correction-
al Unit.

A special grand jury in Novem.
ber, 1972, indicted a total of 1!
men following a year-long investi-
gation by state police.

Judge Holstein ordered the fo!-
lowing probational requirements
for the men:

That the defendant be of goo
behavior during the probation:
which means he shall not inten-
tionally violate any law; and

That the defendant not engage
in drug traffic in any manner:

(Continued on page 8)
 

|OUTLOOK and REVIEW
The Honor System changes

Elsewhere on this page, you will find an article, a letter to the stu-
dent body, from the Executive Committee explaining why the Honor
System “White Book,” as it is so bureaucratically labeled, was distri-
buted to students when Winter Term schedules were handed out.

We realize that the average life of those books when they were hand-
ed out was from the registrar’s office to the nearest wastepaper basket,
but we suggest you take time out to read both the book and the EC’s
letter, for some very significant changes have taken place, changes
which, of course, this year’s EC made without any input whatsoever
from the student body, without any publicity of the fact that changes
were being made in the Honor System, without any minds other than
those of the EC and a few close associates to decide for the entire uni-
versity how the Honor System should operate.

Several of the changes we heartily welcome. For example, the presi-
dent of the Student Bar Association will replace the EC president in
the position of chairman in a student body hearing. Previously, it was
rather questionable that the EC president, who took an active role in
determining the student’s guilt in the closed hearing, should preside
over the open hearings.

Also, a full transcript of the closed hearing will be available to mem-
bers of the jury in the open hearing. This, hopefully, will aid in the
presentation of all the pertinent data to the members of the jury.

We must, however, question several changes made by the EC,
changes which, without any input from the non-EC student body, seem
to strengthen the EC’s position as “prosecutor” in an open honor trial.

One change stipulates that a summary of the closed hearing com-
piled by an EC member, will be written up for presentation as evidence
at the open hearing. The “prosecution,” if you will, seems much stren-
gthened by this move, much to the despair of the convicted student,
who seeks a public honor trial beyond the realm of the EC men who
have already convicted him.

Another change seems to harass the student into accepting the EC’s
closed session decision and rejecting an open honor trial. If the student
withdraws before the EC hearing or after that hearing and before a
public trial, his transcript will say only that he has withdrawn from
the university. But if he is found guilty in the public honor trial, his
transcript will read that he withdrew from the university following a
student body honor hearing, which is to say he was kicked out. And
any student would have a lot easier time getting into another school if
he withdrew from than if he were kicked out of Washington and Lee.
Maybe this is how it should be, but the line drawn by the EC between
withdrawal and being kicked out seems to be drawn at a point favoring
the EC, and not the student, perhaps “convincing” that student to con-
form with the EC’s decision rather than face virtual expulsion.

Thus, it seems to us that the EC’s chances of looking good because
its conviction of a student was upheld in a public honor trial are en-
hanced by these changes in the Honor System, changes, again, which
were made without any approval from the student body as a whole.

We think it is fine that the EC undertake such a task such a re-
vision of the Honor System, and we are (fairly) certain that its mo-
tives were good. But one EC’s good intentions might be an innocent
man’s demise, simply because the inbreeding of thought within the EC
has brought about, in less than a year of existence, the classical de-
fects of such inbreeding.

Apparently these changes in the Honor System were contrived by
the EC before it officially took office, back in the spring of the 1972-73
session. The newly elected members met regularly in unpublicized ses-
sions to organize and plan for official action for this year, or so we
thought. But apparently, such was not the case.

And so, a number of students already this year have been found
guilty of honor violations by the EC and have withdrawn without public
trial. Who is to say whether this would have been the case if they had
nad a voice in the EC’s efforts to change the Honor System last spring?
We assume that justice has prevailed, and that the guilty students have
been ferreted out and the innocent have returned to the bosom of the
university.

But whatever the case, the entire student body, not just the EC,
should have been able to actively participate in the process of modify-
ing the Honor System. Through a referendum or through some kind of
vote, the students should have the say as to how an honor trial should
be run. Instead, we have had imposed upon us a new honor trial by the

EC, of the EC, and apparently for the EC.
—P.J.L.

NOTICE
There will be a meeting of
Ring-tum Phi staffers today at
4:30 p.m. in Room 114 of the Uni-
versity Center. Assignments for
the next issue will be made at
the meeting.

   

Thursday, January 10, 1974

EC letter explains changes
in bonor trial procedure

To the student body:

When you picked up your Win-
ter Term sehedules you were
given a new copy of the Honor
System “White Book.” You receiv-
ed the copy for two reasons:

1—The Executive Committee
made several important changes
in the public hearings procedure
and in the reading of a student’s
transcript should he have to leave
Washington and Lee due to an
honor violation. These changes
were made last spring and incor-
porated in freshmen orientation.

2—The Student Body Constitu-
tion requires that the Executive
Committee annually orient the
Student Body to the Honor Sys-
tem. In the past the EC has been
negligent in this respect. Though
this current “orientation” is not
the most satisfactory, we are
hopeful that it will refresh you
with the meaning and procedures
of the Honor System.

The exact changes occur first
on page nine of the “White Book”
in Sections N and P. Section N
outlines the difference in the
transcript report between convic-
tion and withdrawal following a

Ask Traveller

private hearing and withdrawal
following a public hearing. This
change was made to insure com-
plete confidentiality of the private
hearing.

Section P details the major
change in the public hearing pro-
cedure—that of a member of the
Executive Committee presenting
a written summary of the case
including the facts presented to
the EC as well as the reasoning
behind the EC decision.

The next change occurs on
Page 11 in Section A. Here the
President of the Student Bar As-
sociation replaces ‘the Student
Body President as Chairman of a
public hearing. The reasoning
here is that the EC President
might be biased in his rulings
and slant the public hearing due
to his having already heard the
private hearing.

The next change occurs on Page
15 where the procedure for pre-
senting the EC summary is out-
lined.

It was the intention of the
Executive Committee in making
these changes to strengthen the

(Continued on page 8)

Q—All year I’ve noticed that there are several dozen of the same girls
who never seem to leave school when the weekend's over. Whose

dates are they anyway?

A—Those aren’t dates, you goose! If they were, what would you do for
conversation after Tuesday and a fresh shirt on Wednesday?
These girls you see all the time are only co-eds and, as such, don't

have to be spoken to at all.
Q—But why are they here?

A—The old bugaboo about co-eds being after a man is pure myth.
Why, the ones I’ve happened to walk through town with don't
even slow down when we pass the wedding display in Waggy’s
front window. And only one co-ed has coyly cooed “hope chest’ to
me when the subject of soup spoons and matching pillow cases
came up in conversation. No, the “now” co-ed at W&L lives com-
pletely for her studies, burning with scholarly fever and thirsting
for higher knowledge. Some of them even carry books to class if
their purses don’t get in the way.

Unfortunately, since W&L is not officially coeducational, there
can technically be no co-eds as such. And since these girls aren't
dates either, a vague problem of nomenclature surrounds them.

Q—What do you suggest?

A—Simple. Declare them national landmarks. Then ask Leigh Chap-

pel out for a date...

THE RING-TUM PHI

The Ring-tum Phi is published on Thursdays during the college year.
It is printed by the Journalism Laboratory Press, Washington and Lee
University. The mailing address is Box 899, Lexington, Virginia 24450.
Entered as second class matter September 29, 1946, at the Post Office,
Lexington, Virginia 24450, under the act of March 3, 1879. Subscription
rates: $6.00 for the school year, $3.00 for the semester.

PAUL J. LANCASTER
Editor-in-chief

Managing Editor .......--++++++>>
Sports Editor .......-++sseeeeeees

ANDREW J. A. CHRISS
Business Manager

Photography Editor ........::essecreeeee eset rere eneees Bill Robinson
ee David Lee
ee Dave Finnell, John Killpack, Chuck Alt

Entertainment Editor
Contributors

out tb ts Et Ot 8 tt ete tt

Tim Moore, Steve Yevich, Tom Rittenburg,

Rome Scott

Bill Flesher, Paul Morella, W. Patrick Hinely, John 5gamoiski

 

 

 
Thursday, January 10, 1974

In Lexington

What’s happening

By JOHN ZAMOISKI

Not that it costs a lot of money
to have a good time in Lexington
as it is, but there are those stu-
dents who are very tight on
money who are looking for inex-
pensive ways to have a good
time. A great deal of research
has revealed that Lexington of-
fers many entertainment oppor-
tunities that cost little or nothing.

A good friend has confided that
many people at the laundromat
take their clothes out of the dry-
er before the dime’s worth of
spins have been used up. The
watchful observer usually can
get four or five free rides a night.

Naturally, the big spenders can
always bring their own dime for
a full uninterrupted ride.

I heard some one talking about
going to the Drive-In the other
day. He’s got a new twist on tak-
ing a date there. His philosophy is
that no one goes to a Drive-In to
watch the movie, so why pay the
admission price to play around.

This student simply parks out-
side the gate and tells his date
that their speaker doesn’t work.
After a few minutes of trying to
guess what the actors are saying,
they get down to business. After
all, that’s the real reason they
went to the Drive-In anyway! The
nice thing is the only investment
is the gas.

Why not go down to the corner
of Main Street and Route 60 some
night and count the number of
times the traffic lights change
every hour. While you're there
vou can yell at the people who
aren't used to the new street sys-

Record review

Poundin

By W. PATRICK HINELY
Hymn of the Seventh Galaxy
Return to Forever, featuring
Chick Corea
Polydor PD 5536

While 1973 saw many of the
powerful forces in electric music
leveling off into comfortable,
commercially safe styles, there
was definitely new ground being
explored elsewhere.

The most innovative electric
album of 1973, barely making it
by the calendar, covers a good
bit of new ground. Hymn of the
Seventh Galaxy is the strongest
music using what is basically a
rock instrumentation and context
to come along yet, surpassing
even the Mahavishnu Orchestra.
There is more stylistic diversity
here; Corea is capable of instilling
a feeling of looseness into the
music, as well as the straight-
ahead kind of tightness McLaugh-
lin often locks his band into.

Like Santana’s Welcome, Hymn
embraces obvious sources. Corea

tem as they drive down Main
Street the wrong way. Take a
camera because the embarrassed
looks on the drivers’ faces once
they realize their mistakes are
worth a fortune.

Watch Ray Miller’s Antique
Store window. Periodically he'll
advertise an auction. Go in, bid
on everything, and then sneak out
when it comes time to pay up. It
makes for poetic justice because
Ray Miller always has ringers in
the audience bidding up the
prices.

Have you ever thought of sitt-
ing on the wall in front of the
courthouse on a Saturday night
and staring back at the people
who drive by as they stare at
you? It’s a real treat.

Why not go listen to Aurthur
Silver tell jokes for a few hours.
Or stop by Highs Ice Cream and
watch the girl behind the counter.

While you’re in the neighbor-
hood take a putter up to the mina-
ture golf course and play while
the place is closed. How come no
one ever goes over to VMI to
hassle the sentries any more? All
they ever say is, “Halt or Ill
Shoot!” Of course there aren’t any
bullets in the guns.

Finally there is one free activity
that stands high above the others;
a trip to Kenny’s Burger Palace.
Drive up there some night and
circle the place about ten times,
gunning the engine the entire
time. To increase the excitement,
borrow a 57 Chevy for the excur-
sion. I can’t even try to explain
the fun you'll have .... and it’s
all free!

, soaring

has chosen those sources well:
this music has the same pirit-
foree a Mahavishnu, the intellec-
tual strength of Weather Report’s
5gawinul, Shorter, or Vitous, and
arrangements as carefully sculp-
tured to the instrumentation as
Deodato’s.

Along with this, the music has
a feeling of freedom without the
sort of falling-apart looseness
which many jazz keyboard artists
are moving towards. Corea has al-
ready been through that, with
Circle. Their Paris Concert album
(ECM ST 1018/19) is some of the
best improvisational ensemble
music ever recorded,

Corea also comes through well
in a slightly more controlled im-
provising atmosphere; his work
with Miles Davis, particularly
Miles Davis at Fillmore (Colum-
bia G80038), shows this well.

Corea can also improvise quite
well by himself, as on his two
volumes of piano improvisations
(ECM ST 1014, 1020). With Hymn

THE RING-TUM PHI

Page 3

 

 
   
 

     

By ROME SCOTT

Sitting here, crunched over by
too many “Merry Christmases”
and the saccahrine embraces that
always seem to go with the sea-
son of booze, I’ll tell you sincere-
ly—I’m up to no good.

And the bad is so bad it’s no
good either.

Youre probably wondering
what I’m talking about so I'll tell
you—television has discovered a
new way to insult the viewer.

You, of course, are dying to
know what that technique is
when television, with its idiot
level commercials and unfunny
situation tragedies such as the
Mary Tyler Moore Show, has tax-
ed your endurance to the nth
degree.

Well, “dear reader,” the ‘edited
for television’ movies have gone
farther than merely cutting out
the hand-holding scenes and the
passonite lip brushes that even
puritans would yawn over—now
they blank out offensive words,
you know the ones I mean,
“damn,” “hell,” and the like.

The average viewer is used to
the “bleep” syndrome of the talk
shows and some of the game
shows where Johnny Carson’s
guest says, “So I kicked the son
of a bleep in the bleep,” or a
newly wed blurts out that his
favorite part of his wife’s body is
her bleep.

That, the viewer can take. I
mean he wouldn’t want poor, old
Johnny to be sued for a guest’s
off-color remark. Not only that
but it’s amusing to see a guests’s

mouth say “damn” and_ hear
“bleep.”
Now, though, television has

Inside-Out

   
 

aancncrt

ean

gone too far. To be watching a
feature length movie and see an
argument between the main char-
acter and his wife in which the
man says, ‘What do you mean
I’m a (here the sound goes dead
and you see the man’s mouth say
bastard),” is more than the view-
er should have to endure.

Anybody in the audience offend-
ed by the word “bastard” raise
your hand.

Ah, but everyone knows that if
you give those television people
an inch they’ll take a mile. If
“bastard” were allowed now, next
would be “bitch” (women’s lib
you know) and then where would
we be?

The movie which set off this
rampage is “Number One” shown
on WSLS channel 10, in Roanoke
on Jan. 5.

A story about an aging quarter-
back who doesn’t want to admit
he’s over the hill, the last few
minutes of the movie exemplify
the new technique.

Picture a football game in the
Sugar Bow! with the quarterback
hero in a huddle calling the next
play. “Left red, slant x, 54 green
on 10. Let’s knock them on their
(no sound, even the crowd sounds
are gone),” the hero says.

How much intelligence does it
take to figure out that the man
said, “Let’s knock them on their
asses.”

‘Now the movies, tomorrow the
news.

I can see it coming—We’re in
for some (no sound) weather—we
can’t have “foul” words in our
weather forecasts.

What would the children think

(Continued on page 8)

but relaxed Hymn

of the Seventh Galaxy, he can add
to his already cosmopolitan bag
the high-energy, rock-oriented
genre,

Corea’s uniqueness lies in his
versatility as a writer. Besides
his abilities as a player, Corea
has also mastered composition.
Each piece has a definite theme,
but the themes emphasize them-
selves more by intensity than by
repitition.

The music doesn’t border on
neurosis or threaten to become
boring; the changes happen when
they should, The transitions are
seldom sweet, though; Corea finds
as much beauty in contrast as in
lyrical prettiness.

The other members of the band
come off well, too. Stanley Clarke
is one of the few bassists who
has acquired equally proficient
abilities on the acoustic and elec-
tric bass.

Bill Connor’s guitar playing has
definite traces of John McLaugh-
lin, but on the whole he comes

 

across much looser than Mahavish-
nu. Connors is able to take his
time in getting it on with the
fretboard and not let things drag.
He is one of the few players to
use more than one consistent
timbre on electric guitar.

As a drummer, Lenny White
tends toward rock, but is the first
drummer since Mickey Hart to
have a sense of silent space as an
important element of rhythm.
The album begins with its short-
est band, the title cut. No one
really opens up on this one; it
serves mostly as a prelude of
things to come.

It is followed by bassist Clarke's
piece, “After the Cosmic Rain,”
the only non-Corea composition
on the album. Clarke shows him-
self to be on an equal par with
Corea in writing and arranging,
While Corea takes on an almost
totally supportive role wiht equ-
ally full abilities.

Finishing side 1 is “Captain

(Continued on page 8)
a8

age 4

 

W inter slate
of placement
interviews set

January

i17—First & Merchant
National Bank, Washington 7,
9-4,

23—Commonwealth of Virginia,
Washington 7, 9-4.

24—The Citizens & Southern
Nat’! Bank, Washnigton 7, 9-4.

February

6—Investors Diversified Serv-
ice, Washington 7, 9-4.

7—First National Bank of Mary
land, Washington 7, 9-4.

12—Central National Bank of
Richmond, Washington 7, 9-4.

13—First Virginia Bankshares,
Washington 7, 9-4.

i14—UpJohn Company, Washing-
ton 7, 9-4.

Maryland National
Washington 7, 9-4.

20-21—Navy, CO-OP, 9-4.

21—United Virginia Bankshares,
Washington 7, 9-4,

19. Bank,

 

27—U.S. General Accounting
Office, Washington 7, 10-4.
March

5—Bank of Virginia, Washing-
ton 7, 9-4,

 

If vou are not a citizen of
the United States, January is
the month when you must re-
port your address to the Im-
migration and Naturalization
Service .

Address report forms may
be obtained at local United
States Post Offices and offices
of the United States Immigra-

tion and Naturalization Serv-
ice,
Foreign students are _ re-

minded that they are subject
to the alien address require-
ment, and all are urged to re-
port their addresses in Janu-
ary. Students under 14 years
of age who are not citizens of
the United States should have
their address reports complet-
ed and filed by their parents
or guardians.

Every one can help, You
who are citizens of the United
States can remind your family
or friends of their oblgiations.

 

 

 

Sweep on, you fat and

greasy citizens.
As You Like It
Act H, Sc. 1, Line 55

 Wendell’s
Barber Shop

9 South Jefferson

 
 

Closed Wednesday

 

THE RING-TUM PHI

Thursday, January 10, 1974

 

The forest maid meets the court jester in Shakespeare’s “As You Like It,” to be presented Friday, Jan,
18, at 8:30 p.m. in new Doremus Gym by the National Shakespeare Company. Tickets are $2 in advance.

91.5 WLUR-FM

91.5

FRIDAY

 

 

 

MONDAY TUESDAY WEDNESDAY THURSDAY
7am. Morning Show to 9 a.m.
*News :45 *Bull. Brd. :15 Sports :30
3 p.m. Afternoon Show to 5 p.m.
*News :45 Bull. Brd. :15 Sports :30
5pm. WLUR Takes A Look =

News at 5:45

 

6 p.m. Classical Showcase

 

 

  

 

Folk Music

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

9 p.m. Firing B. Gabriel's All Things Options
Line Music Considered & Bernstein
9:30 p.m. Firing Bookbeat Jazz Options ~ Folk Music
Line Revisited & Bernstein
10 p.m. News ee
10:30- It’s Your Gramaphone Radio Appalachian Perspecti ve Ss
J] p.m. Affair Yesteryear Smithsonian Music
ll p.m. 3rd Ear 2
: SATURDAY I} p.m. Metropolitian SUNDAYS
7am. Saturday Ain't Opera (live) 7 p.m. Concert In The Park
(sic) So Bad Spm. Evening Show *News :45
*News :45 *News :45 6 p.m. BBC Science
BB :15 *Sports :00 Magazine
10 am. Playback 6 p.m. Harwoods Anti- 6:30 p.m. Age of Telemann
1] am. Oldies Authority Headache Machine 7:30 p.m. Rothgard Schichel
10 p.m. 3rd Ear 8:30 p.m. Concert of
2 am. The Week
10 p.m. 3rd Ear Magazine
to

Bea. *News :00

 

 

 
Thursday, January 10, 1974

W&L offers

special course

° e e
in reading skill

As a new service to Washing-
ton and Lee students, the Univer-
sity has engaged Baldridge Read-
ing and Study Skills, Ine. to offer
m campus this term a special
new program designed to improve
reading and learning skills in
icademic subjects.

The program is not merely a
speed-reading course. Its techni-
jues are designed to increase
reading speed, to strengthen com-
prehension, to improve recall, to
sustain concentration and _ to
leepen analysis. A student uses
1is own classroom reading mater-
ials rather than mass-prepared
instructional literature and mech-
anical training aids.

This program will be conducted
m the Washington and Lee cam-
pus by an instructor from Bald-
ridge Reading from January 23
through February 22. Scheduling
Vill be flexible to accommodate
individual student schedules, and
classes will be small to permit
qecessary individual attention.
Each student will attend a total
if twenty sessions, five per week.
Tuition for the program will be
$95, payable by the start of the
program upon receipt of a state-
ment from Baldridge.

Further information and regi-
stration cards may be obtained
from the Office of the Dean of
Students, Washington Hall 25,

THE

RING-TUM PHI

Page 5
ge :

 

 

Would you buy a used tank from these men? Students from W&L’s ROTC Department are shown on
field maneuvers in conjunction with VMI cadets last term.

EC calls for investigation
of university’s infirmary

By ROBERT PUGH
The Executive Committee Mon-
day night endorsed a resolution
asking the University Council to
study the infirmary situation.

 

121 W. Nelson

$

 

NEED EXTRA CASH

STUDENT LOANS AVAILABLE
NO AGE RESTRICTION

PEOPLES Finance Service

OF LEXINGTON

$

Phone 463-3176

$

 

Dry Cleaning

Linen Service

WE DELIVER

UNIVERSITY
CLEANERS

Reliable Service In

Storage & Free Moth Proofing

Shirts Laundered
Clothing Repair

463-3622

a

The resolution calls for a spec-
in which the Univer-
sitv Council would appoint a com-

.al session

mittee to examine the medical
situation. Many members. stated
that several unfortunate situa-
tions have been caused by the in-
firmary’s inadequacy. The resolu-
tion was apparently prompted by
rumors following the death last
term of freshman John Stanford
Mever.

Student Body President Doug
Schwartz announced a Tuesday,

January 8, discussion at 7:30
about the Fine Arts problem.
Participants included the Fine

Arts faculty, several Fine Arts
majors, and the EC. Schwartz is
attending a Board of Trustees
meeting in Tuscaloosa, Alabama
this weekend, and will report the
results of the meeting to the
Board,
Student

Activity Board Chair-

man Mike Brittin announced that
country singer Charlie Daniels is
appearing at Wé&L later this
month. He also encouraged every-
one to attend the “As You Like
It” performance by the National
Shakespeare Company. SAB must
sell 850 tickets to break even.
Sophomore rep Mike Luttig sug-
gested that there was a need to
reorient the faculty about the
honor system. This will be done
in a question and answer session
at the Feb. 4 faculty meeting.
Next week:
—Board of Trustees report;
—BankAmericard discussion
with Mrs. Munger;
—Library Committee discussion
with Mr. Leach;
—Cold Check and Curriculum
Committees Report;
—Update on city license tag ap-
peal;
—Fine Arts Subcommittee,

 

(7

 

 

 

STUDENTS!

Make this your headquarters for Good Food

and Service

We have meal tickets at savings to you

SOUTHERN INN

=

 

 
—

) .
age 6

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

Minnesota vs. Miami—

Thursday, January 10, 1974

Superbowl battle of the titans in Houston

By BILL AUSTIN
Ring-tum Phi Sports Editor

Minnesota, sole survivors of con-
ference play-off struggles, deter-

Professional football offers its mine rightful ownership of the

cucminating clash this coming
Sunday, when titans Miami and

pot of gold that lies in Houston,
Texas.

Swimmers win twice
to remain undefeated

The swimming Generals im-
oroved their season record sub-
stantially this past weekend with
; sweep of a Friday double-dual
meet here at W&L.

The tankers defeated the swim-
ners from Gettysburg College, 60
to 53, and the swimmers from
Muskingum College, 69 to 44. The
Generals are now 3 and 0 for the
season,

The team of Searles, Graham,
Brotherton and Howard started
the meet off by taking the 400
vard medley relay.

 

m=

Final clearance on ’73 model
roommates. Two to choose from.
Call Lee House II for details, 463-
2522. Ask for John or Lee.

 

WANTED: 35mm Camera in
excellent condition. Call 463-
4320,

Searles came back, scoring high
in the 200 yard backstroke. Gra-
ham did well in the 200 breast-
stroke, Brotherton took the 200
yard butterfly event and was a
member of the winning 400 free-
style Relay along with Howard.

Leading the Generals to their
victories was freshman Tad Van
Leer. Van Leer placed first in
both the 50 and 100 yard free-
style events, and was also a mem-
ber of the winning freestyle re-
lay.

Other high scorers for the Gen-
erals were Porter McNeil, who
took a first in the 1000 yard free-
style, and Bill Tiers, who placed
in the 200 yard freestyle.

The Generals take on the Key-
dets this Saturday at 2 p.m. Wed-
nesday they will travel to Rich-

mond to face the swimmers from
U. of Richmond.

 

~YvYrrrre

 

 

siltniiiiee

 

 

AS YOU

rrr rrr hhh hh

=a

|b

lel lle lt lt la cl cl lle ltt <li

The National Shakespeare Company

AMERICA’S TOURING CLASSICAL
REPERTORY COMPANY

presents

January 18, 1974 — 8:30 p.m.

DOREMUS GYMNASIUM

sponsored by W&L Student
Activities Board

Tickets: $2 in advance, $2.50 at door

LIKE IT

i tl i i i i tt i ti ln it ltt lial allan sctlianslintlitantlintiallinittinnliitliniintlltnillitinsilliatlinlinlitnilinnlinntnliinciltinnlitinillin

 

 

Speculation seems less shrill
this year than last, possibly be-
cause the local favorites, George
Allen’s gimpy Redskins, have
been relegated to the same obser-
vation role as the rest of us, or
possibly because the Dolphins ap-
pear suspiciously similar, in style
and success, to those drama-
squelching Packers of the not-so-
distant past.

Certainly, Miami presents an
awesome case as favorite for
super-bowl riches. This is their
third consecutive appearance in
the affair, and they have never
entered a sounder football team.
Admittedly, conservatism charac-
terizes their offensive attack, but
the tedium of Csonka’s bullish
plowing or Morris’ skittish end
sweeps can not be too loudly cri-
ticized when such tactics trans-
late into victories.

Particularly convincing was the
Dolphins’ obliteration of a _ for-
midable Oakland Raider team on
December 30, a 27-10 rout that re-
quired only six Bob Griese passes.
Miami led from start to finish,
and controlled the ball in a fash-
ion that kept the Raiders’ Kenny
Stabler from ever generating the
offensive explosions of which he
is so capable.

Enter Minnesota. The Vikings
clobbered Dallas because they
played with emotion and imagina-
tion, and because Coach Grant al-

lowed Tarkington to draw freely
from his bag of flamboyant tricks.
The magic show must surely con-
tinue if the North-Landers are to
deny the Dolphins of their seem:
ing destiny, for Minnesota’s over-
all strength can not match the
AFC champ’s blend of offensive
fire-power and defensive muscle.

The once celebrated Purple
Gang is now an aging group, sus-
ceptible to the run. However, it
is also a group motivated by an
embarrassing memory, the 23-
debacle suffered at the hands of
Kansas City four years ago.

In subduing both Washington
and Dallas, the Vikings came up
with big plays: the bomb to Gil-
liam, the interception by Bryant.
The Dolphins have been remark-
ably free of such miscues, It is
said that a truly great team makes
its breaks. Quite literally, then,
Minnesota’s task will be just such
a test of greatness.

In essence, the game pits the
last of the big-play artists (where
now are Unitas, Brodie, and
crumbling Jurgenson?) against a
veritable machine of consistency.
My good sense suggests a ho-hum
Dolphin victory, perhaps (oh no!)
a repeat of last year’s epic dissec-
tion of Washington. My hopes, in
ready contrast, lie with the
Scrambler, the individual who
defies predictability—for better
or for worse.

Wallace wins scholarship
as NCAA student-athlete

Washington and Lee senior
football co-captain Bill Wallace of
Roanoke has been awarded a
$1,000 post-graduate scholarship
by the National Collegiate Athle-
tic Association (NCAA).

He is one of 33 football players
across the nation, and one of 11
in the college division, to receive
the coveted award.

“Considering the number of po-
tential candidates across the coun-

 

East Lexington
Grocery

Beer — Ice — Gas
Party Supplies — Snacks

Open 7 days a week
ABC No, 2078—8 a.m.-10 p.m.
SHOP FOR SUNDAY
EVENING DINNER
We Sell & Deliver Kegs

 

 

 

try, this award stands as a signi-
ficant honor for the student and
a tribute to your institution,”
NCAA Executive Director Walter
Byers said in a letter to W&L
Faculty Athletic Committee
Chairman Dr. George Ray in an
nounheing the award.

Wallace, a graduate of Roa-
noke’s Patrick Henry High where
he starred in football, basketball

(Continued on page 8)

Paul’s Bike Shop

11 N. New St., Staunton
Phone 886-1310
PAUL Now Accepting All
BIKE REPAIRS at

Sears’ Lexington Store

Pick-Up Every Wednesday
teturned On Wednesday.
Also New 10 Speeds Batavus
Bikes For Sale.

LES e debe eee ebete
% ® ® =
= The First National Bank 3
° of Lexington t
: . . =
= has special checking accounts for students
% of

eee oenteteoentstecteoentsteoesteeoestenteoentsteoenteste neste ntenteeoesteoteateteoteteteoleteseodegetee

 

ete lee cmist hen aig

 

 
Thursday,

Janu ry

10, 1974

THE RING-TUM PHI

Page 7

 

Basketball squad captures third

in tourney with consolation win

By BILL AUSTIN

As the only winless guest at
Washington and Lee University’s
fifth Invitational Basketball Tour-
nament, St. Paul’s College proved
rudely un-cooperative.

Sporting a none-too-impressive
0-6 won-lost mark, the Tigers pro-
ceeded to upend W&L by 78-75
this past Friday night, then com-
pleted their successful stay with
a 93-83 triumph over stubborn St.
Mary’s College of Maryland in
Saturday’s finale.

Meanwhile, the Generals garn-
ered third place honors with a
93-63 pasting of Susquehanna Uni-
versity, a team which fell to St.
Mary’s and Walter Clark’s last
second 15-footer, 69-67, in Friday’s
Opener.

To be sure, W&L’s opening
round confrontation with the tall,
hungry St. Paul’s team generated
the fiercest battle of the four-
game tourney. The Generals were
themselves anxious for a victory,
having suffered a pair of spirit-
sapping defeats at the hands of
Lynchburg College and Baltimore
University prior to the Christmas
break.

In St. Paul’s, the squad en-
countered an opponent quite simi-
lar, in size and style, to Baltimore
U's bunch, and the game exhibit-
ed a disturbing parallel concern-
ing the Generals’ inability to fol-
low up missed shots with second
chances.

In contrast, St. Paul’s managed
as many as four or five shots at a
time, nullifving W&L’s shooting
edge (46.7% to the Tigers’ 42.9%)
bv grabbing 50 rebounds to the
Generals’ 42.

 

Hamric and Sheridan
JEWELERS
Watch and Jewelry Repair
Hand Engraving & Class Rings
463-2022

 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 

“ KEYDET-GENERAL
» Restaurant and Motel

Truly One of the South’s Finest
é Superb Dining and

Donnie Roberts, St. Paul’s 6’7”
center and the tournament’s even-
tual Most Valuable Player, topp-
ed his squad’s tough board work
with 15 rebounds, while team-
mates Williams and Byrd pulled
down 11 and 10 apiece.

Nevertheless, W&L neutralized
the Tiger board-power through-
out, behind the excellent outside
shooting of Bow Williams. Bomb-
ing over the top of St. Paul’s zone,
Williams hit on 10 of 14 attempts,
many of them from 18 to 25 feet
out. His 23 points topped all Gen-
eral scorers.

Indeed, it was William’s early
burst which sparked W&L to a
6-2 lead, a bulge which was not to
be matched again. With Roberts
at work, St. Paul’s bounced back,
taking a 20-12 lead half-way into
the opening period.

At that point, the Tigers made
wholesale changes in their line-
up, and followed this with a brief
stab at a man-to-man defense.
Both moves appeared to backfire.
The Generals quickly closed the
gap, and the lead sea-sawed to
the half’s end, with W&L atop by
one, at 40-39.

In the final stanza, the Generals
saw a 48-45 margin disappear, and
then engaged in a scrap which
tied 10 times in the final 15 min-
utes of play. St. Paul’s Alleyne
Byrd enjoyed a hot hand, totall-
ing 18 points on his medium-
range jump shots which well com-
plemented the inside scoring of
Roberts (21 points).

For W&L, Norm Kristoff pro-
vided considerable second-half
firepower, consistently hitting his
turn-around jumper from inside
the foul line. In all, he converted
eight of nine field goal attempts.

With the game tied at 70, the
Generals suffered through a dis-
astrous 2:45 period of point-scar-
city. Costly turnovers, coupled
with St. Paul’s foul-line successes
in the one-and-one situation, put

  
 

Picturesque Atmosphere.

; Serving Food in the :

Fine Tradition of Virginia.

For Reservations Phone 463-2143
Complete Facilities for

.. Banquets, Weddings & Receptions
A One Mile West of Lexington on U.S. 60

 

the home team down by 5, at 77-
72, with only 13 seconds remain-
ing.

However, after canning one of
two free throw attempts, Williams
lofted a harassed 30-foot shot
which somehow fell through, and
the Generals, still game, called a
time-out.

On the St. Paul’s inbounds pass,
Skip Lichtfuss purposely fouled
Tommie Williams, who jubilantly
made one of his two chances, in-
suring the Tiger edge. The ending
typified the frustration experienc-
ed by W&L’s senior captain, on a
night when many of his 25 at-
tempted shots came Close, but
would not fall. He made but nine.

The mark of a fine ball player
can be determined by his ability
to regroup his skills after having

a trying, difficult game. Licht-
fuss’ solid effort in Saturday

.aght’s match-up of Friday’s #s-
ers was such a showing. Indeed,
his strong shooting (10 for 18),
rebounding (10) and hustle char-
acterized a strong team perform-
ance, as twelve players figured in
the season-high scoring of 93
points.

Admittedly, Susquehanna U. did
not possess the natural ability of

a St. Pawl’s. Outside of Dave
Long, a mobile 6’6” sophomore
center, the team held no danger-

ous scoring threat. His 16 first-
half points kept Susquehanna
close for most of the opening per-
iod, though the contest was last
tied at 8-all. A balanced front-line
attack put the Generals in front
by 10 at the half, paced by Licht-
fuss’ 12, Williams’ eight, and Kris-
toff’s seven points.
Out-rebounded

the previous

night, W&L had little difficu:t
in dominating the aehattie
against youthful Susquehanna.
Kristoff led the way with 13 re-
bounds. The team blew the com-
petative lid off things by scoring
10 points to Susquehanna’s 2 at
the outset of the final stanza.

Thus able to substitute freely,
Coach Canfield placed five sopho-
mores in the game. Indicative of
the potential and depth of this
year’s squad, a 63-49 lead then
swelled to 74-51.

Guards Maloney and Rice press-
ed opposing ball-handlers into
numerous mistakes, while shreda-
ing the Susquehanna press with
ease. In turn, Baum, Kristoff, and
Fitzgerald contributed a flurry of
baskets, and the rout was on. The
final tally of 93-63 put an em-
phatic end to the agonies of a
four-game tail-spin.

In addition to Lichtfuss’ team
leading 21 points, Williams con-
tributed 17, Kristoff 16.

Following St. Paul’s win in the
championship game, an effort pac-
ed by Tommie Roberts’ 30 points,
the All-Tourney team was an-
nounced. Those chosen included
Bow Williams, Dave Long of Sus-
quehanna, Walter Clark of St.
Mary’s, along with Alleyne Byrd
and Donnie Roberts of St. Paul's.

The Generals, holding a 2-4 rec
ord, met Bridgewater Tuesday
night. The team returns to Dore-
mus gym tonight for an 8 p.™
meeting with Wilmington.

 

I am falser than vows

made in wine.

As You Like It
Act III, Se. 5, Line 73

Washington and Lee University
Bookstore

Reading is not a spectator

sport buta performing art!
Cit

age 8 THE RING-TUM PHI

Former students paroled

(Continued from page 1)
shall not associate with any

persons who are engaged in or
mav be engaged in the drug
traffic; and

That the defendant abstain com-
pletely from the use of drugs and
narcotics; and

That the defendant abstain from
the use of alcohol; and

That the defendant not have in
his possession any firearms or
other deadly weapons; and

That the defendant make every
reasonable effort to become a law
abiding and respected citizen; and

That the defendant seek and ob-
tain gainful employment; and

That the defendant report to
the probation officer of this court
or to such other probation officer
as may be designated within the
Commonwealth of Virginia or
elsewhere for his supervision at
such times and places as directed;
and

That each three months period
if his probation he shall submit
o his probation officer in Vir-
ginia excerpts from newspapers,
magazines, and other publications
related to the drug problem, ac-
companied by his statement that
he has read such probation, and
stating his reasons why all citi-

Qo cho

zens should join in the crusade
against drug offenders, especially
the ‘pusher’; and

That the defendant perform
and obey such other conditions
suggested by his probation officer
during his supervision.

EC letter explains
honor trial changes

(Continued from page 2)

Honor System procedure and pro-
mote as complete a degree of fair-
ness as is possible for the accused.

These procedural changes, and
tose made by the 1972-73 EC as
well, places the responsibility of
enforcing the Honor System clear-
ly in the hands of the members of
the Student Body. We hope that
you will take the time to familiar-
ize yourself with these changes as
well as to review your own per-
sonal concept of the Honor Sys-
tem in what it means to you and
the community of which you are
a part.

If you did not receive a copy of
the revised “White Book” you
may pick one up in the EC Room.

” Thank vou,

The 1973-74 EC

FOR YOUR EXTRA PIECES OF FURNITURE

Varner & Pole

115 Main St. — Lexington, Va.

Thursday, January 10, 1974

Senior Bill Wallace
Honored by NCAA,
Awarded scholarship

(Continued from page 6)
and track, has been an outstand-
ing defensive back for W&L’s
Generals. As co-captain this past
season, he led the team in tackles
with 127 in nine games, recovered
three fumbles, caused two others,
knocked down three passes and
made one interception. He was
named ot the first team All-Vir-
ginia College Athletic Association
(VCAA).

Wallace also has earned a pair
of letters as a hurdler and dash
mn on the W&L track team.

As a political science major,
Wallace has a 3.277 grade aver-
age on a 4.0 scale and is a consis-
terit dean’s list and honor roll
student. Wallace plans to attend
law school following his gradua-
tion this spring from W&L.

Inside-Out

(Continued trom page 3)
if they heard the same words on
television that they hear their
father say when the morning
paper is late?

NOTICE
Needed: stage hands and costume
assistant for “As You Like It”
Call 463-9422

The Washington and Lee jazz
ensemble will perform during the
Washington and Lee-Wilmington
basketball game tonight in new
Doremus Gymnasium.

Relaxed Hymn

to electric music

(Continued from page 3)
Senor Mouse,” a carefree, roam-
ing sort of powerhouse which
sticks closer to its theme than
any of the other songs. The
changes are successful wander:
ings through many possibilities,
returning to the theme almost as
comic relief at points.

Side 2 is even more immediate.
The forceful swing of “Theme to
the Mothership” gives it an air of
triumph and great joy. Next is the
2-part “Space Circus;” part 1 is
Corea tracking himself.

His haunting, almost Gothic
melodies on electric piano and
harpsichord, solidly supported
with some well-placed organ
chords, drift almost to silence be-
fore the transition to part 2, some
loud but very righteous electric
music.

Besides high spiritual energy
there is a bit of funkiness in the
music, a sort of smiling get-to-it-
iveness. Closing out the album is
“The Game Maker,” another
pounding, soaring and yet also
relaxing piece.

This is state-of-the-art electric
music, Return to Forever is an
excelent example of what can be
done within a basic rock context
when done by true artists. The
album’s one drawback is a fairly
extensive use of tracking.

This music couldn’t be the same
in concert, but with Corea and
this band it would definitely be
worth listening to anyway.

 

Hey sophomore: Would you like to ---

Take Two Years Off This Summer?
.. Youthink Army ROTC isa 4 year, locked-step course. Right?

.. You didn’t sign up first term freshman year, and now you

can’t. Right?—W RONG

You can take two years off this summer by:

l. arranging to attend the summer training session at
Ft. Knox, Ky. (pays about $500 and room and board

for six weeks) and

Why would you want to?

A [| Because the challenge and responsibility of lead-

ing men appeals to you.

BL]

Because the chance for full ROTC scholarships

(52 will be awarded to young men like you at
Ft. Knox this summer) interests you.

Because you know Nick Grant and Dale Rhodes

were awarded full Army fellowships last year
when they were commissioned and all schoarship

cadets are eligible.

to

arranging to take miitary science during your junior

and senior years at W&L (pays $100 per month
during the school year).

I) es Because the Army has helped keep America free
for almost 200 years and you want to learn how

you can help.

Bt

Because you think that perhaps you should con-

sider a military career as one of your alternatives.

F 2 All of the above.

Why not ask what it’s all about?

Lieutenant Colonel Louis P. McFadden

ind his staff in the Military Science Department
would be happy to answer any of your questions.
THE RING-TUM PHI

Washington and Lee University’s Weekly Newspaper

 

Vol. LXXIII

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA, JANUARY 17, 1974

Number 13

 

Founders’ Day activities Monday

Supreme Court Justice Lewis F.
Powell Jr. will be the speaker
Monday at the traditional Lee’s
3irthday and Founders’ Day con-
vocation at Washington and Lee.

Powell will speak at 11 a.m. in
Evans Hall. The public is invited
to attend the convocation and

Justice Powell’s address.

Powel learned both his under-
graduate and law degrees from
Washington and Lee and has
been a member of its Board of
Trustees since 1961. He was presi-
dent of the American Bar Associa-
tion in 1964-65.

Student kills himself

in fraternity house

Michael Wayne McWhirter, 19,
a sophomore at Washington and
Lee, died Saturday of a self-in-
flicted gunshot wound, according
to Rockbridge County Medical
Examiner E. V. Brush.

McWhirter, of Chamblee, Ga.,
died at the Psi Upsilon fraternity
house on East Nelson Street.
Police say McWhirter locked him-
self in his room between 2 and 3
p.m. Saturday and committed sui-
cide. His body was discovered by

other members of the house. A
note was found by the body.
Police have not released the con-
tents of the note.

MeWhirter’s death marks the
third suicide of a Washington and
Lee student in the past three
school years. One student took his
life at his home in Rockbridge

County two years ago, while
another committed suicide last
vear in the Beta Theta Pi fra-
ternity house on North Jefferson
Street.

 

No one can define that com-
plex of emotions which causes
a man to take his own life.
Mike McWhirter surely had
his reasons, though he chose
to bear them by himself. His
death was thus as much as a
shock to his fraternity brothers

 

as it was to his parents and
friends. Although we knew
Mike for but two vears, he has
left behind him a memory and
a love which will remain with
us all the days of our lives.
—The Brothers of
Psi Upsilon

 

 

EC schedules referendum
on limiting closed sesstons

By ROBERT PUGH

Next month the student body
will vote on opening up every EC
meeting which does not involve
a possible honor violation.

Senior Ted Amshoff submitted
a petition signed by more than
100 people. The amendment would
forbid the EC to meet in a closed
session except about possible
honor violations. Amshoff insist-
ed that the petition was not
aimed at the present EC.

The student body constitution
permits amendments to be sub-
mitted by a petition signed by 50
Feb. 7, 8, and 11. Approval by
students. The vote will be held
two-thirds of the voters and a
turnout of 50% of the student
body is required, The vote will be
held on a Thursday, Friday, and
Monday.

Student Body President Doug
Schwartz reported on last week-
end’s Tuscaloosa, Alabama, Board

of Trustees meeting which he at-
tended.

The Board seemed highly en-
thusiastic about a new Fine Arts
building after the new library is
built. They plan to tour the pres-
ent Fine Arts facilities in May
when they have their next Board
meeting.

Curriculum Committee  chair-
man Herb Rubenstein announced
an Asian Studies Information Pro-
gram Jan. 29, which will involve
discussion of the Asian spring
courses. There will be a meeting
in Mareh about independent ma-
jors. The Committee plans to have
another curriculum survey next
month. The format will be chang-
ed to increase participation.

In other business, Schwartz an-
nounced that the infirmary situa-
tion will be discussed at the next
University Council meeting. Also,
the concert with Charlie Daniels
has been canceled.

Coinciding with the university’s
observance of Lee’s Birthday and
Founders’ Day will be the annual
“tapping” ceremonies for Omicron
Delta Kappa, national honorary
leadership fraternity. ODK was
established at Washington and
Lee in 1914, and now there are
chapters on the campuses of more
than 100 colleges and universities
in America. Rupert N. Latture,

one of ODK’s founders and now
an aide to Washington and Lee
President Robert E. R. Huntley,
will participate in the “tap” cere-
monies.

Lewis F. Powell III, son of
Justice Powell and a senior at
Washington and Lee this year, is
president of the W&L chapter of
ODK.

 

Applications are currently
being accepted by the Publica-
tions Board for the position of
editor-in-chief of the Ring-tum
Phi for a one-year appoint-
ment from January, 1974 to
January, 1975.

Election will take place
Tuesday, Jan. 22, in the Publi-
cations Board office in the Uni-
versity Center. The Publica-
tions Board will meet at 7:00
p.m. in the University Center.

Applications for the position
should include:

 

—a brief letter of intent;

—a personal resume (ap-
proximately 10 copies) contain-
ing academic and extracurricu-
lar data and information perti-
nent to employment on vari-
ous publications. The resume
should be in outline form.

The personal appearance be-
fore the board is expected to
be brief. Presentations of
plans, thoughts, and proposals
may be made in written out-
line.

 

 

Fine arts discussed by trustees

Last weekend, when the Board
of Trustees met in Tuscaloosa,
Alabama, Doug Schwartz, Presi-
dent of the Student Body, was
there to represent the views of
the students.

The main thrust of Schwartz’s
presentation was to impress upon
the Board the real need for a
fine arts center at W&L to house
facilities for music, art, and
drama. He said that a moderniza-
tion and adaptation of existing
building was not enough and
that the Board should think in
terms of building a completely
new facility.

Schwartz enumerated the rea-
sons why he felt such a fine arts
complex is necessary:

1) Each discipline, music, art,
and drama, require modernized
facilities which should not have
to be shared with other disci-
plines. For example, student con-
cert groups should not have to
use a room which doubles as a
classroom for music courses.

2) The housing of these three
departments in one complex
would would allow for the neces-
sary inter-play of the arts.

3) Larger and better facilities
should be made available to
alleviate the overly crowded con-
ditions which now exist. Import-
ant here is guaranteeing non-ma-
jors the exposure to the arts they
desire and not cutting them out

of courses because of a lack of
room.

4.) Such a complex would im.
prove the visual education of the
student body in the arts.

More could be done in terms of
concerts, exhibitions and theatre
with new and expanded quarters.

5) A fine arts center would be
a meeting place for the uni-
versity community. Besides in-
creasing the unity of the school
it would tend to unify W&L with
the town and VMI.

Schwartz cited the large in-
crease in the number of students
enrolled in fine arts courses in
the past few years as an addi-
tional factor to be considered. He
said that he hoped that the Trus-
tees would make the building of
a fine arts center a high priority.
He suggested the possibility that
it be their next consideration afte:
the funds for the library are
obtained.

The Board did not respond with
a concrete motion or statement,
but Schwartz feels optimistic that
action may be taken this spring.

Schwartz also suggested that
the Board of Trustees take a tout
of the present fine arts facilities
when they come here for thei
spring meeting. This tour will be
conducted by the fine arts fac-
ulty. To this suggestion the Board
agreed enthusiastically.
Page 2

THE RING- TUM PHI

|OuTLOoK and REVIEW
On closed EC meetings (again)

Early last October, we asked the Executive Committee to draw
up a constitutional amendment which would limit closed sessions of
that body to discussion of possible honor violations. We were answer:
ed with a flat “no.”

 

 

Without any such amendment, the EC could ostensibly call a
closed session for discussion of any topic it wanted, say, the student
body budget, for example, or the Honor System.

But the EC would have nothing of the sort, and instead proposed
a weak amendment stating that it would take at least three members
of the EC to call a closed session.

So what? Those three could still call a closed session on, say,
the budget or the Honor System.

The amendment, listed as a “controversial amendment,” was
defeated in October in a constitutional referendum, a referendum
which, strangely enough, seemed to be extended for a long enough
period of time so that the main body of the revised constitution—
revised by the EC, by the way—could pass,

Whatever the case, the amendment failed, and, though we were
one of the proponents of limitations on the EC’s powers to call
closed sessions, we welcomed the defeat, for the EC’s proposal was
a victory on paper only. Little would have been gained by its passage.

Instead, the defeat caused proponents of a limitation on closed
sessions to regroup and wait for the right time to try again. That
time, apparently, has come.

Last week in this column, we noted that several changes in
the Honor System and honor trial procedure had been made by the
EC, The changes were made last spring, when the newly-elected EC
members met almost nightly to discuss the upcoming school year.

While we must applaud that group for its efforts in preparing
for its term of office this year, we also must condemn its apparent
over-zealousness. Without any input whatsoever from the student
body, bureaucrats in the EC room managed to make some significant
changes in the Honor System and trial procedure, some significant
changes which we doubt are to the benefit of the student body and
the accused in an honor trial.

In essence, that the changes were made without any student
input means that the decisions were made in a closed EC session.
All decisions were those of the whims of one small group of students
assuming that they knew what would be best for the student body.

(What particularly disturbs us is that, at the time the EC changed
the Honor System, newly-elected members were not even officially
in office. The student body constitution, which we presume the EC
has read, states in Section II, paragraph C: “Officers shall enter upon
their duties the day after Commencement following their election.”
Those changes in the Honor System were made by a group of stu-
dents who weren’t even officially in office yet, except for those
members who had been re-elected. If the EC can change the Honor
System behind closed doors in an unofficial capacity, imagine what
it could do behind closed doors in an official capacity.)

But strangely, since that editorial of last week, the EC has
apparently seen the light in the open door. Monday, several students
drew up a petition of more than 50 signatures, in accordance with
the constitution, asking for an amendment limiting closed sessions to
discussion of possible honor violations. (See page 1).

And, although there is nothing the EC could do about that
amendment anyway, the members of that committee accepted the
petition and set a referendum for February 7, 8, and 11 (Feb. 9 and
10 are on a weekend).

It appears the EC has changed its position remarkably on closed
meetings within just a few short months. We must wonder why.
But whether the EC is in favor of the new amendment is not the
question. Rather, are the students in favor? We think they should be.
And, for the sake of the students, we hope we are right when the
amendment comes up for a vote in three weeks.
—P.J.L.

It’s never too late

A little item of interest we thought we’d pass on to you:

Seems a former student erred in his bookkeeping abilities while
he was here at Washington and Lee. For last week in the mail, Mrs.
Betty Munger, manager of the bookstore, received a note and $10
from an anonymous source, The note reads:

It has been requested that the enclosed $10.00 be forwarded to
you by a person desiring to remain anonymous to cover a very small
error made many years ago. It is stated that this amount includes
adequate interest. Please include this in your current store receipts.

Chalk up one for the good guys.

   

January 17, 1974

Black Culture Week
scheduled Feb. 3-8

Editor’s note: This is the first
of a series of articles on the
upcoming Black Culture Week
at Washington and Lee spon-
sored by the Student Associa-
tion for Black Unity.

By STEVE YEVICH
The Student Association for
Black Unity (SABU) has designat-
ed February 3 through 8 as Black
Culture Week.

Using the broad theme,
Black Experience,”

Thursday,

committee has arranged a pro-
gram presenting various aspects
of black culture,

On Sunday, February 3, at 6
p.m., a black worship service will
be held at Lee Chapel. The Rey.
Lutrelle D. Rainey, pastor of the
First Baptist Church in Lexing-
ton and Assistant Dean of Stu-
dents at W&L, will be the main
speaker.

Other participating ministers

(Continued on page 8)

“The
a planning

Ask Traveller

Q—Is it my imagination or is there some sort of secret fraternity
here at W&L in which the members wear an identifying costume
around campus?

A—Yes, and it’s called the South, an obscure name shrouded in
mysterious mumbo-jumbo, evidently referring to the geographical
area below Cleveland, Ohio, and a bit to the right. Strange hand-
shakes and passwords abound in this regional edition of the
Odd Fellows, such as the enigmatic “ya’ll” and the baffling “fat
city” in which the speaker grins widely and checks behind his
ears for spanish moss.

Social customs vary among the fellowship, but nearly always
include a stiff drink, a wilting blond, and an entertaining imita-
tion of the Delta Queen whistling for more steam on the Missis-
sippi. Folk dance, too, plays an important part in the life of the
fraternity, lending credence to the legendary boast that any three
“Southern” hoofers can stomp a trillion challengers in a fair
gatoring contest as long as the temperature stays above seventy
and the floor is kept wet with grain and sorghum.

But the most obvious aspect of this secret brotherhood, in-
deed, is the distinctive dress, styled with the predictable elegance
of Ma and Pa Kettle in Paris and the functional simplicity of a
Victorian brothel. Roughly, the characteristic outfit consists of
a pair of topsiders (or banana hoppers as the Bolivians call them),
a pair of belted, cuffed khaki pants with or without dark fluff
socks beneath them.

Depending on the season, red alligator T-shirts are worn inter-
changeably with blue work shirts and plaid jackets. For the more
formal occassion a long white, button-downed dress shirt and
blue-crested blazer are worn with a hand-painted neck tie show-
ing Sherman insulting Clark Gable.

This basic pattern, traditional ever since the Centennial failed
at Gettysburg, persists in the South in spite of the double knit
influence, although reports indicate progressive change has
occurred in the wearing of khakis over the head with the knees
cut out for eye holes when placing an order for rooster heads
at Kentucky Fried Chicken.

Remember this, though. To merely dress like one of “them”
will not gain you entrance into the secret cult of the South, whose
jocal headquarters is purported to be in the backroom of David-
sons. More is required.

Q—What?

A—A ‘c’ average in American history.

THE RING-TUM PHI

The Ring-tum Phi is published on Thursdays during the college year.
It is printed by the Journalism Laboratory Press, Washington and Lee
University. The mailing address is Box 899, Lexington, Virginia 24450.
Entered as second class matter September 29, 1946, at the Post Office,
Lexington, Virginia 24450, under the act of March 3, 1879. Subscription
rates: $6.00 for the school year, $3.00 for the semester.

PAUL J. LANCASTER ANDREW J. A. CHRISS
Editor-in-chief Business Manager

Wie Boe, SS SS ee Jess Reeves
er eee es a Bill Austin
Pages ee SS, SS, Bill Robinson
Entertainment Editor Rome Scott

Oe SSS SS eS Se David Lee
0 SSS Dave Finnell, John Killpack, Chuck Alt
Corereers ee. css Tim Moore, Steve Yevich, Tom Rittenburg,

Bill Flesher, Paul Morella, W. Patrick Hinely, John 5gamoiski
Thursday, January 17, 1974

Inside-Out

  

By ROME SCOTT

And now, down to business.

Will the real reason for mak-
ing “The Paper Chase” please
stand up?

Voted the best entertainment
picture of the year by many
critics, let’s hope those who see
it believe it was just entertain-
ment.

“The Paper Chase,” starring
Timothy Bottoms as a first year
man at Harvard law school, is
the product of Jim Bridges (if
one man can get the credit for
a movie these days).

Bridges wrote the screen play
and directed the flick which was
a series of moviettes about the
trials and tribuations of making
the grade in law school.

Bottoms comes to Harvard
where Professor Kingsfield, his
idol, teaches law. Bottoms, as
voung Hart, is innocently taking
a break from the rigors of aca-
demia to go get a pizza one night
when he runs into, of all things,
a girl.

The girl is sure she’s being fol-
lowed (of course!) and Hart gal-
lantly agrees to walk her home.
She doesn’t ask him in that night
but next time (you guessed it)
he ends up in bed with her.

He tells her all about his de-
sire to be recognized by the great
Professor Kingsfield and his
theories about how to gain this
recognition.

Little does Hart know that this
girl he has accidently run into
on the streets of Boston (not a
small town at that) is the daugh-
ter of Kingsfield (believable,
huh?).

Well, Miss Kingsfield is really
Mrs. somebody who is waiting for
a divorce (so everything is all
right). Hart eventually asks her
to marry him, or something like
that, but she says that’s no good
(the viewer never gets a clear
picture of why).

Hart then says that he has to
have some kind of arrangement
because he’s got to keep his life
organized.

They reach no agreement and
we find Hart standing in front
of Kingsfield’s class trying not to
be a conformist (we are led to
believe this is what Kingsfield’s
daughter is getting at).

Hart, like a true student (oh,
veah) tells Kingsfield, “You’re a
son-of-a-biteh.”

And then (miracle of miracles)
Kingsfield tells Hart he can stay
in class.

Hart is jubilant (who wouldn’t
be?) and feels he has made it—
Kingsfield has recognized him.
(don’t believe a word of it).

Final examination comes and,
on the way out of the building,
Hart runs into Kingsfield. After
telling the great professor how
much his class has meant to him,
Hart finds that Kingsfield doesn’t
know who Hart is.

Shattered ego and_ slumped
shoulders, Hart fades out and we
see his exam graded (Would you

   

believe an A?).

Finally we see Hart lounging
on a beach as the  professor’s
daughter brings him the envelope
with his grade.

Does Hart anxiously open it
to see what all the backbreaking
work has gotten him? Of course
Hee, is

He ceremoniously makes a
paper airplane out of the en-
velope and sails it out to sea
(Hart has arrived).

Fadeout, music, credits, cur-
tain. Over, finished and what
have we seen?

If the public is expected to take
the plot seriously, and there is
a rumor that Bridges meant for
it to be taken seriously, then the
picture is a joke, a soap opera
with a new twist.

New twist or not, the plot is
still an old lemon.

If the movie was made with-
out a motive, other than to en-
tertain, then hurray, hurray, hur-
ray—it is funny.

With other critics screaming
for relevance and meaning, I’m
asking for a lack of meaning. All
I want out of “The Paper Chase”
is entertainment.

Good thing too—that’s all it has
to give.

THE RING-TUM PHI

Page 3

 

Film committee schedule for month of January

Student Activities Board Film
Committee presentations schedul-
ed for the remainder of the
month of January include:

22-23—“The 400 Blows,” 7 & 9
p.m. $1.

25-26—"‘The Wild Bunch,” 7 &
9:30 p.m. $1,

29—“David Copperfield,” 7 &
9:30 p.m. Free.

30—“‘Man With a Movie Cam-
era,” 7:30 p.m. free.

The decline of Miss M.

BETTE MIDLER
Atlantic SD 7270
By JOHN ZAMOISKI

Somehow, I get the feeling that
Bette Midler’s second album was
put out solely for the purpose of
putting out a second album, One
listening is enough for anyone’s
ear to reinforce the decision that
the Divine Miss M. has lost her
way. The lack of life and style
is everpresent.

To say the least, Bette Midler’s
first album was great. She was
able to combine two separate and
seemingly incompatable styles in-
to one cohesive sound experience.
A marriage of blues—emotional
ballads and upbeat camp sounds
worked beautifully.

This new collection is a big dis-
appointment. Side one starts off
fairly well. If you haven’t heard
Bette’s first album, you can ex-
cuse side one as being a good
first attempt at the big time.
“Skylark” has a lack of emotion
strangling what could have been
a moving song.

NOTICE
DORMITORY COUNSELORS 1974-75
Applications are invited for the position of Freshman and
Upperclass Dormitory Counselors for the 1974-75 academic year.
These positions are considered to be among the most responsible
entrusted to Washington and Lee students.

On the basis of past experience, certain guidelines for the |

selection of Dormitory Councelors have been established. Appli-
cants must be at least current sophomores, and should not
have routine commitments after 8 p.m. that would normally
take them from the dormitory for any appreciable time. While
counselorships are not awarded on an academic basis, a student
who has failed to maintain a 2.0 average would probably not
be selected. Any counselor who is placed on Academic Probation
after being selected will be asked to resign.

In order to insure their greatest possible availability to
counselees, counselors, are provided with a single room in the
dormitory and with the dinner meal, which they are expected
to eat in Evans Dining Hall. Each counselor will also be ex-
pected to live in his dormitory room seven nights a week and
cannot have an off-campus apartment.

The primary basis for selection of counselors to freshmen
will be their general fitness to aid in making the dormitories a
suitable environment for a student’s freshman year.

Students who are presently dormitory counselors and who
wish to reapply for next year should submit letters to this

 

effect to the Dean of Students’ office by 4 p.m. on Friday, |
January 25. In addition, returning counselors should indicate in °
their letter if they wish to apply for Head Counselor or As-

sistant Head Counselor.

New applicants for counselor positions in the freshman and
upperclass dormitories should submit letters to this effect to
the Dean of Students’ office by 4 p.m. on Friday, January 25.
Such applications should contain information that will be help-
ful to the Selection Committee, including previous counseling
experience and the reasons for wanting the position. Further
details concerning duties and responsibilities can be obtained
from Floyd Lewis, Head Dormitory Counselor, and Gary Avery,
Paul Cavaliere, Rolf Piranian and David Turk, Assistant Head
Dormitory Counselors, each of whom is a member of the Selec-
tion Committee. All applicants for counselor positions will be
interviewed by a committee composed of the Head Dormitory
Counselor, the Assistant Head Dormitory Counsehlors and the
Associate Dean of Students. Applicant will be notified by mail
of the time for interviews after January 25,

 

“Drinking Again” probably
ranks as the most intelligible and
enjoyable selection on the album,
With more sensitivity than any
of the other cuts, “Drinking
Again” is the disc’s one redeem-
ing value. “Surabaya Johnny” is
a four minute and fifty-two sec-
ond preview of the type of non-
sense the listener will be sub-
jected to on. side two. It’s a
talking cut that would have been
better off looking for aid in a
welfare line. It won’t get any sup-
port from this listener.

We finish side one with “I
Shall Be Released.” As long as
you don’t know that Bob Dylan
wrote it and you haven't heard
Dylan’s rendition, you can enjoy
this song. Otherwise, don’t bother
to listen. In contrast with the
original, it’s slow and cumber-
some.

Side two is coated with dreams
of songs of the past. Unfortun.
ately, they come of fas night-
mares. The “Boogie-Woogie-Bugle-
Boy” that brought Miss M.’s tal-
ent to the attention of the public
was cute and snap.

But, you can’t base half an
album on a one shot fad. “Lullaby
of Broadway” and “In the Mood”
should have been left where they
belong; in the past. The same
goes for “Da-Doo-Rum-Rum” and
“Higher and Higher.” Without a
stage show to accompany them,
these songs drift without direc.
tion.

Hopefully, Miss M. will find
her way and offer an apology to
her public by releasing a third
album that will rate being called
her second album. The sooner we
put this one in the past, the
better.

 

 

If you are not a citizen of
the United States, January is
the month when you must re-
port your address to the Im-
migration and Naturalization
Service .

Address report forms may
be obtained at local United
States Post Offices and offices
of the United States Immigra-
tion and Naturalization Sery-
ice,

Foreign students are re-
minded that they are subject
to the alien address require-
ment, and all are urged to re-
port their addresses in Janu-
ary, Students under 14 years
of age who are not citizens of
the United States should have
their address reports complet-
ed and filed by their parents
or guardians.

Every one can help. You
who are citizens of the United
States can remind your family
or friends of their oblgiations,

 

 

 
Page 4

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

National Shakespeare Company

‘As You Like It’ set Friday

The National Shakespeare Com-
pany’s production of “As You
Like It” will be presented in
Doremus Gymnasium Friday at
& p.m.

Tickets for the play are $2.00
in advance and $2.50 at the door.
The play is beng sponsored by
the Washington and Lee Student
Activities Board.

The plot of “As You Like It”
involves a banished ruler, Duke
Senior, his daughter Rosalind, her
lover, Orlando, and a host of

other characters whose lives all
become intwined in the Forest
of Arden. The major development
of the story are unfolded early
and the rest of the play takes
place in the forest as the lovers
create problems for themselves.
Indeed, there is very little real
change in the situation between
the first act and the last.

The play concerns itself mainly
with the confusion of love.
Rosalind disguises herself as a
man so that she may observe her

Thursday, January 17, 1974

lover and in doing so becomes
the object of a country girl’s love.

At the begining of the play the
favors of the world seem to be
distributed to the wrong people.
The good Duke Senior is banished
by his brother, the usurper Duke
Frederick. Rosalind is banished
because her uncle fears that her
popularity may be dangerous to
him.

Orlando runs away from his
brother Oliver who, being the
elder, has inherited their father’s

estates and mistreats his younger
brother. The fortunes of these
characters are reversed by coin-
cidences and near miracles in the
end when the villains repent.

The story is anything but real-
istic but, then again, it is not
intended to be. The plot is only
a necessary evil which is used to
frame the comic situations aris-
ing in the forest. In the end,
things fall into place rapidly and
several couples are married to
live happily ever after.

‘Man of Mode’ opens Saturday as
W&L theatre presentation here

By BILL AUSTIN
This Saturday night at 8 p.m.,
the University Theatre presents
Sir George Etheridge’s “The Man
of Mode.”

The play, considered one of the
comic masterpieces of the seven-
teenth-century, focuses upon hu-
man posturings and cunning in
a world which has forfeited its
moral sustances, its tenets of in-
visible order.

The work’s killer-hero, Dorimant
serves no loftier cause than the
satisfying of his own sexual
needs. In his powerful use of
language and in his animal vigor,
Dorimant dominates weaker crea-
tures which surround him. One
example is his friend Medley, who
observes folly and love with de-

wlur-fm

presents an

All Request
Marathon

Friday night
Phone 463-2869
Phones open at 10:30 p.m.
Marathon begins at 11
All day, all night —as
long as we have requests.

WLUR—2-way radio

 

_ Wendell’s
Barber Shop

OPEN 9-6

 

9 South Jefferson

=

Closed Wednesday

 

tached cleverness, but can not
enter into the experience of life
himself.

Dorimant also feasts off the
vulnerability of women. Mrs.
Loveit and Bellinda both condemn
him for his heartless treatment,
but give themselves regardless,
willing sacrifices to his danger-
ous wiles of seduction.

Only Harriet offers a serious
challenge to Dorimant’s life style
of self-satisfying one-night stands.
When he croons loving words,
she mocks him for his superficial
emotions. Intrigued, love-struck,
Dorimant realizes that this beauty
cannot be his unless he is willing
to give of himself, his loyalty.

She has seen through his game,
and establishes rules of her own
upon which he must operate if
he is to win her favors. Marriage
is primary among them. How-
ever, their union remains uncer-
tain, tainted always by the recog-
nition of Dorimant’s lustful ego-
tism.

STATE

THRU SATURDAY

Walt Disney

That Darn Cat

SUN.MON.-TUES,

By Popular Demand

A Separate Peace

LYRIC

HELD OVER

 

ONE MORE WEEK

Paper Chase

In contrast, Young Bellair’s en-
during love for Emilia seems to
evidence the possibility for a
match of beings in the marriage
contract, though the two are ever
mindful of the difficulties involv-
ed. Bellair’s goat-like father com-
plicates matters when he desires
Emilia for himself, but his chal-
lenge is overcome through decep-
tion.

The play’s exuberant moments
of humor are fueled, in large
measure, by the figure of Sir
Fopling Flutter, the epitomy of
the fashionable man. He embod-
ies everything that the age pur-
ports to embrace, for he is totally
external, wholly visible to the
eye. Any inner life has been ex-
changed for complete, slavish de-
votion to reigning modes of taste.
Consequently, Sir Fopling amuses,
appalls his fellows and the audi-
ence alike.

Etheridge’s “Man” makes for

brilliant, staccato-paced entertain-
ment today, for his characters
possess a fullness of dimension
which survives the passing of 4
particular epoch. Moreover, they
hold, amid the frivolity, an under-
lying recognition of their society’s
verging on destructive chaos. This
bit of trauma-inspiring wisdom
haunts them, as it surely must
us in our own fragmented age.

The play will continue through
Wednesday.

CLASSIFIED
WANTED — One to live with
three in country. Call 463-7820.

NEEDED — 1 or 2 roommates.

4-bedroom, 2 bath farmhouse.
Fire place, electric heat. On South
River. Call 261-2089.

WANTED: 35mm Camera in

excellent condition. Call 463-
9320.

 

SENIOR

 

INFORMAL
PORTRAITS
Prints Available

Monday Evenings 8-9

Thru February 18

Student Center 200

THE CALYX

 

 
Thursday, January 17, 1974

By HERB RUBENSTEIN

During October of last semester,
the Student Curriculum Commit-
tee initiated a student survey for
both freshmen and upper class-
men. This survey included a
course by course evaluation as
well as a general survey of stu-
dent opinion in such areas as
distribution requirements, PE
requirements, new courses, and
suggestions for improving the
curriculum at W&L.

One of the most widespread
complaints showing up was the
feeling that P.E. should not be
required, About 65% of the stu-
dent body thought that the PE
requirements is unneccessary and
that a less structured PE pro-
gram should be introduced. The
students on the other hand gave
hearty approval of the distribu-
tion requirements with over 75%
of the students approving. The
only objections raised were that
some courses such as computer
science, accounting, journalism,
engineering, and comp. literture
were considered solely as electives
and could not be used in one of
the four areas satisfying distribu-
tion requirements.

The students also approved of
the 12-12-6 calendar instituted in
1970-71. Nearly 90% of the stu-
dents approved of the new pro-
gram which is also favored by a
majority of the faculty. The only
area that students were not happy
vith was the lack of availability

~

of internship possibilities and the
limited number of courses offered
in the spring. Since he survey
was. distributed, several new
courses have been planned plus,
6-week study abroad courses have
been set up in England, the Far
East, Italy, and other countries.
Department heads in Journalism,
Commerce, and other departments
are working on increasing the
possibilities for students to take
off-campus study-work opportuni-
ties in the spring.

Another major area where stu-
dents lodged many complaints
was that fine arts facilities. The
Troubador Theater was consider-
ed by many as being not adequate
for the needs of the drama de-
partment, and should be replac-
ed. Several students also com-
plained the drawing and sculpting
facilities were crowded and should
be enlarged. Students of music
registered many complaints as to
the music listening facilities in
McCormick Library. With the
quickly growing enrollment in
Fine Arts courses, the lack of
facilities in music and the other
fine arts programs has caused the
students many problems and
should be remedied by the ad-
ministration in the very near
future.

The freshman survey turned up
a few surprising results. Even
though the survey was taken
nearly two months after fresh-
men arrived on the W&L campus,

 

$

121 W. Nelson

$

 

NEED EXTRA CASH

STUDENT LOANS AVAILABLE
NO AGE RESTRICTION

PEOPLES Finance Service

OF LEXINGTON

$

Phone 463-3176

$

 

Dry Cleaning

Linen Service

WE DELIVER

SOCHRNASEHSHSAHSSHOSSSHAETCSEHEHAEHEHESE?

UNIVERSITY
CLEANERS

Reliable Service In

Storage & Free Moth Proofing

Shirts Laundered

Clothing Repair

463-3622

THE RING-TUM PHI Page 5

Curriculum survey study released

82% of the freshman class were
not familar with the process
necessary for an independent ma-
jor. 34% of the class stated it was
interested in such a major and
wanted to find out more about
the program.

Freshmen also turned back the
PE requirement with 55% of the
class voting against it. Strong
approval was given to the 12-12-6
calendar with 96% in approval.

During the questionnaire each
student was asked to fill out sur-
veys for courses he had taken in
the last two vears. The data we
have received from this survey
is not complete enough to form
any overall student opinion as to
specific courses. However, Drs.
Gunn, Hughes, and _ Coulling,
among others, were given much
praise, and with few exceptions
the faculty was considered of

high quality by the students.

This semester the Curriculum
Committee will have another sur-
vey during mid-March. This sur-
vey should the faculty approve of
our use of five to ten minutes of
class time, would take place dur-
ing class for a two day period.
Zach student would evaluate each
course he is taking, during this
semester.

The purpose of this survey is
for our Curriculum Committee ‘to
gather the information we feel
necessary to help students select
the best possible courses and hep
our curriculum go even farther in
filling the needs of the students.
If you have any questions, our
committee meets every Tuesday,
at 7:05 p.m. in the student center,
and if you have any suggestion
concerning the curriculum we
would appreciate your meeting
with us anytime this semester.

Threat of rationing looms
over road-tripping students

By JOHN MULLIKEN

Are fuel shortages real? Energy
czar John Simon assures us they
are; Ralph Nader claims the oil
companies are ripping off the con-
sumer and trying to drive the
independents out of business.

Regardless of Nader’s accuracy,
demand for fossil fuels cannot
continue to rise; we've got to find
new energy sources, and, for the
time being, learn to live with less.

Over vacation, the White House
re-aligned some allocations, and
asked the oil companies to cut
gas production by 20%.

The W&L community has felt
the energy crisis, primarily in
relation to our cars, after all some

85% of the student body has a
car, and social life here is highly
dependent on the ability to get
down the road.

The White House is not con-
trolling gas price ceilings and the
average gas price is up nine
cents per gallon over last year at
this time. Despite widespread
predictions to the contrary, Simon
says prices won’t go as high as
70 cents per gallon. Meanwhile
an increasing number of stations
are limiting gas purchases to
three dollars, or ten gallons.

In the background lies a sleep-
ing monster, rationing. As ration-

(Continued on page 8)

COCOEHESSEESSOHSEOOSEOOOOSSHHOOSEHSSEEOSESEECEOHOEE

: FOR YOUR EXTRA PIECES OF FURNITURE
: Varner & Pole

115 Main St. —

SCOOHOOCHESSESSSESESSHOOSOOHOSSHOSECHOSSESSCESHOSESHOESEEOD

Lexington, Va.

 

 

i

 

 

STUDaN FS!

Make this your headquarters for Good Food

and Service

We have meal tickets at savings to you

SOUTHERN INN

7

 

 

 
Page 6

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

‘Super Sunday’ - not
so super after all

By BILL AUSTIN
Ring-tum Phi Sports Editor
Publicists heralded January 13
as “Super Sunday,” but the Miami
Dolphins made the gala event just
another exercise in perfection
when they outclassed sluggish
Minnesota in the NFL’s title tilt.

In retrospect, very little can be
said. From the opening kick-off,
Florida’s beach-boy champs held
the upper hand, putting on a
neat, precise 62-vard drive to gain
a lead they never relinquished.
Naturally, the act featured the
usual Csonka-thrusts, sprinkled
with the tasteful diversions of
Griese-bullets and Morris-sprints.

Indeed, the team’s bear of a
fullback rushed 33 times; Griese
unfurled his magical arm on but
seven occasions. The game, dis-
tressingly enough, to those fans
seeking excitement, was quite
similiar to the Dolphins’ earlier
dissection of Oakland. Not even
Tarkenton’s 18 completions could
alter the undeniable course of
things. Sadly, the oft-touted Min-
nesota defense was found lacking
hefore the bleary eyes of a nation.

If anything could be considered

which preceded football’s bid at
oppulence, and surely upstaged it.
ACC basketball at its best? Per-
haps, if the sad play of Tom
3urleson (he managed a 3 for
19 shooting mark) can be for-
gotten or excused in some soph-
ist’s mad scheme (gee...Len
Elmore played great defense ...).
What was uniquely excellent was
the home-court wizzardry of
David Thompson, whose 41 points
keved the Wolfpack’s hard-earned
80-74 victory over the visiting
Terps.

In a sense, Thompson exhibited
the sort of skill that enables one
team to defeat another of finer
overall calibre. It was a feat
which touted Tarkenton could not
match in his quixotic campaign
against football’s fat cats. Indeed,
one wonders if any single star
could upset the flawless Dolphin
organism when cash is on the
line.

Question: if such consistency
constitutes a dynasty, who wants
one? Where are we if sport ap-
proaches the same mundane pre-
dictability that haunts everyday
life? (Yawn. Stretch.) Remember

 

 

“super” on this particular day, it the Colt-Packer play-off game
would have to be the North where Tom Matte was quarter-
Carolina State-Maryland clash back and...?
baa aaa ae a ae ee ee ee ee
ip

\

>

R

b

|

-

}

»

i>

 

 

 

AS YOU

 

The National Shakespeare Company

AMERICA’S TOURING CLASSICAL
REPERTORY COMPANY

presen ts

LIKE IT

January 18, 1974 — 8:30 p.m.
DOREMUS GYMNASIUM

sponsored by W&L Student

Activities Board

Tickets: $2 in advance, $2.50 at doog

 

 

iinet iia i

Thursday, January 17, 1974

 

Believe it or not, there’s a Washington and Lee player in the pic-

ture taking a shot in last week's loss to Wilmington.

host Hampden-Sydney tonight.

The Generals

—Photo by Robinson

Swimmers entertain Richmond,
to oppose Dickinson College next

After seeing its undefeated
streak stopped last Saturday at
VMI, the Washington and Lee
swimming team returned to its
home poo! to entertain Richmond
Wednesday night. Results of that
meet were unavailable at press
time.

 

East Lexington
Grocery

Beer — Ice — Gas
Party Supplies — Snacks

Open 7 days a week
ABC No, 2078—8 a.m.-10 p.m.
SHOP FOR SUNDAY
EVENING DINNER
We Sell & Deliver Kegs

 

 

 

ie li i le + ste ate ste she oh Ya he tack ah *,
Se OL4 of oe fe ofs nfs fe oho of of ole ole of ofe ale afe afe of ofe ale of ole afe ofe ole ofe of of Oho ofe of of of ofe ofe ofe whe ofe of ofe ofe ake ake afe of ofe of

The First National Bank

The Generals under Coach Bill

Stearns took a 3-1 record into
the meet in the new pool at
W&L’s Doremus Gymnasium.

W&L will take to the road again
Saturday for a meet at Dickinson
College.

Paul’s Bike Shop

11 N. New St., Staunton
Phone 886-1310
PAUL Now Accepting All
BIKE REPAIRS at

Sears’ Lexington Store

Pick-Up Every Wednesday
teturned On Wednesday.
Also New 10 Speeds Batavus
Bikes For Sale.

©6606006666666666666

G
y,

2.
7

v

* of Lexington :
has special checking accounts for students z

% +
So oteoeotoobeteoenteotesteotesteoterteotestenteesteoeetenesteoeoteaesfeoesteoe oe steoestenteoenteobeobeteeobesbetetesteetes-
Thursday,

January 17,

1974

THE RING-TUM PHI

Page 7

 

Basketball’s record slips to 2-7;
W&L to face Hampden-

By BILL AUSTIN
scores:
WEL 63
W&L 74 .

Bridgewater 71
Wilmington 76 (OT)
WEL 80 Towson State $1
Frustration last week present-
ed the 1973-74 Washington and
Lee University basketball bunch
with its largest dose of this per-
vasive, mind-taunting emotion to
date.

Three games were lost by the
grand total of 11 points. A gea-
son’s hopes were further dimmed
as the overall won-lost mark
slipped to 2-7,

A week ago Tuesday night, fol-
lowing the ,omp over Susque-
hanna, the Generals traveled to
nearby Bridgewater, and were
sent home a disgruntled outfit,
losers by 71-63. After the defeat,
Coach Canfield juggled his start-
ing line-up considerably, insert-
ing Greg Croghan, Gary Fitzger-
ald and Paul Maloney to comple-
ment the nucleus of Lichtfuss and
Williams.

The renovated attack started
slowly against Wilmington Col-
lege at Doremus last Thursday.

Fortunately, the invading Wild-
cats matched the W&L offense

for cold shooting.

For example, a Randy Taylor
lay-up tied the score at 12 apiece
9 minutes into the first half.

Two and a half minutes later,
Fitzgerald's 12-footer put the Gen-
erals on top at 14-12.

Wilmington
knot the

Two minutes later,
manager a basket, to
score at 14-all.

In part, the dearth of scoring
was due to the zone defenses em-

 

Hamric and Sheridan
JEWELERS

Watch and Jewelry Repair

| ffand Engraving & Class Rings

463-2022

 

 

 

  
  
 
 

Picturesque

For

KEYBET-GENERAL
Restaurant and Motel

Truly One of the South’s Finest
Superb Dining and

ployed by both teams. W&L’s
multitudinal substitutions seem-
ed to hamper the team’s efforts to
establish any sort of offensive
continuity, the sharp passing
needed to counter-act a tight 2-1-2
defensive set-up. Yet, the tough,
physical play of the entire squad,
particularly that of Croghan, who
retrieved numerous missed shots
and errant passes, created a
formidable obstacle in its own
zone. Indeed, Wilmington never
succeeded in working the ball in-
side for good shots in any consis-
tent fashion.

Not so for the Generals. With
Norm Kristoff and Skip Lichtfuss
teaming up, W&L closed the
opening half with a rush, out-
scoring its opponent 13-0 in the
period’s final four minutes. The
33-23 bulge at intermission semm-
ed a mere portension of grander
achievements. The momentum
was there...

Somehow, Wilmington guard
Phil Melillo and butterballish sub
Paul McDade failed to get the
message. Consequently, the 10-
point margin which the Generals
maintained mid-way into the final
half was persistently, agonizingly
pared down. The Wildcats ex-
pended no vast amount of artistry
in their comeback.

Melillo occasionally displayed
moments of awkwardness, yet he
hit three shots in the final two
minutes of regulation-time. Me-
Dade... the 6’5” soph appeared to
undergo a_ transfiguration of
character as the contest entered
its final phases. Neither swift nor
showy, he nevertheless collected
five crucial] points in the overtime
period,

Fueled by such unlikely heroes,
Wilmington made its dash to vic-
tory with less than four minutes
remaining. Trailing by 57-50, the
Wildcats earned a tie of 66-all
when Melillo canned an_ off-
balance jumper with but 20 sec-

  
 

Atmosphere.

Serving Food in the

Fine Tradition of Virginia.
Reservations Phone 463-2143
Complete Facilities for

Banquets, Weddings & Receptions

One Mile West of Lexington on U.S. 60

 

At

 

onds to play. Desperation tosses
by Lichtfuss and Guy Kerr failed
to connect, and the Generals en-
tered the five-minute stanza for
the first time this season.

Fabled momentum now sided
with determined Wilmington, Mc-
Dade and Melillo put the Wild-
cats in front by 7, at 73-66, and
the Generals never recovered. A
pair of baskets by Kristoff closed
the gap to 75-74, but McDade’s
free throw upped the margin to
two with but 18 seconds left.
Wé&L’s hopes expired when, a
mere three ticks from defeat,
Kristoff rebounded a missed shot
while on the floor, attempted to
stand and shoot, and was called
for traveling.

Lichtfuss led W&L scorers with
23 points, while Bow Williams
and Kristoff added 16 and 12
points, respectively. McDade head-
ed Wilmington’s offensive totals
with 15 points.

The night was not totally given
to defeat, for the frosh gained a
tight 99-97 win over Virginia
Baptist in the 6 p.m. preliminary.
The victory was the second con-
secutive triumph for the squad—
they defeated Bridgewater 91-62
on Tuesday—evening its record at
2.2

Saturday night’s encounter at
Towson State turned out to be
the varsity’s culminating episode
of futility. Behind the sharp
shooting of Croghan, the team
jumped out to a 13-2 first-half
lead, and played some of its finest
basketball of the season. Several
times the bulge swelled to 13
points, but the prosperity did not
last. At the half, W&L clung to

Sydney

a 42-37 advantage, benefitting
from the prolific scoring of
Croghan and home-coming Licht-
fuss, each of whom collected 12
first-period points.

Alas, second-half woes again
snagged the Generals. Erratic
officiating, surely not an un-
known element in previous con-
tests, characterized the battle.
Several of Towson center Pat Me-
Kinley’s blocks were overlooked
goal-tends.

But this alone can’t explain
away still another General col-
lapse. Fulfilling a role similiar to
McDade’s in the Thursday game,
Greg Hicks came off the bench to
gun for 13 points, 11 of them com-
ing in the final six minutes of
the affair. His conversion of both

(Continued on page 8)

Wrestlers host
three-way meet

Washington and Lee’s wrestl-
ing team will hold its first home
meet Saturday, hosting the Uni-
versity of Richmond and West-
ern Carolina in a three-way meet.

The Generals under first year
coach Gary Franke are 3-1 fol-
lowing a 24-17 setback last Satur-
day at Duke. In that meet, 118-
pound Lee Keck and heavyweight
Steve Schweizerhof scored pins,
while 167-pound Rick Heldrich
gained a decision and 177-pound
Doug Ford had a draw.

Saturday’s home meet will be-
gin at 1 p.m. in Old Doremus
Gymnasium.

BURR

paperback

Washington and L

Bonkstore

NEW BOOKS

IMPERIAL PRESIDENCY
BEST AND THE BRIGHTEST

THE ODESSA FILE paper

@66600660666060600606 §66060000060600666606666660666080

Lee University

Schlesinger
Vidal

Halberstram
Forsyth
;
rage ©

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

Black Culture Week planned

(Continued from page 2)
include D. D. Felder of the
Randolph Street Methodist Church

Lexington, and John Davis of
+e First Baptist Church in Clif-

1 Forge. Choirs from as far
away as Hampton, Virginia, will
aso participate. Various other
area churches have scheduled to
meet at Lee Chapel for this
worship service.

The major acticity on Monday
will be an address at 8 p.m. by
Wendell P. Russell, president of
Virginia State College at Peters-
burg, on the topic of the black
experience in education.

SABU has arranged for the Con-
cert Choir of Viteinia—- oss
University to perform here at 8
p.m. Tuesday. The choir will pre-
sent their renditions of music

ct oot

ranging from 16th century baro-
que to contemporary gospel.

On Wednesday night at 8 p.m.
Ted Thornton, personnel director
for the city of Richmond and
former human relations director
for that city, will speak on his
experiences in these capacities,
after which there will be a ques-
tion and answer session.

The movie “King”
shown twice on
Hing, Al {

will be
Thursday eve-
and @ “sine co
lines the civil rights movement
from Martin Luther King’s in-
volvement in the bus boycott in
Montgomery in 1955 to his murder
in 1968.

Fridav night an_ invitational
ball sponsored by SABU, will be
held in Evans Dining Hall from
S30 40 4210l),

Thursday, January 17, 197+

W&L faces Tigers

(Continued from page 7)
ends of a one-and-one situation
iced the TSC victory with seven

seconds remaining, rendering
Paul Maloney’s final two free
throws the stuff of statistical
faney.

The 81-80 triumph for Towson
State was keyed by Witherspoon’s
25 points and Walker’s 16. Skip
Lichtfuss again led the Generals
with 24 points, while Croghan
and Kristoff garnered 18 apiece.
Croghan also hauled down 13 re-
bounds, to pace a strong W&L
effort under the boards.

W&L opened a_ three-game
home stand against Emory and
Henry Tuesday night, and will
meet Hampden-Sydney tonight at
8 p.m. Lebanon Valley invades
for a 2 p.m. encounter on Satur-

Road trips threatened

(Continued from Page 5)

ing programs go, Simon’s is im
aginative and seemingly func
tional. In any case it is the best
possible program for the student
driver away from home. Simon
and Nixon are firmly against ra-
tioning. It would create a monst
erous bureaucracy requiring $100
million a year, 100,000 persons,
and 5,000 local rationing boards.
Nixon will avoid rationing if he
possibly can.

The rationing program would
allow each licensed driver over 18
to purchase a ration book allow-
ing him 32-35 gallons a month,
Ration tickets can be sold to
other drivers. Tickets are good
for 60 days. This would allow for
long trips, although gas may be
harder to find, and quantities
limited.

 

 

 

The W&L Army

OTC Department

Wishes the Athletic

Teams Luck
and success this Saturday
(the schedule is loaded)
and this season.
THE RING-TUM Put

Washington and Lee University’s Weekly Newspaper

 

Vol, LAA

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA, JANUARY 24, 1974

Number 14

 

Powell talk highlights
Founders’ Day, ODK

By PAUL MORELLA

In commemoration of Founders’
Day and in honor of Lee’s birth-
lay, Supreme Court Justice Lewis
FE, Powell, Jr., delivered the tradi-
tional convocation address to the
students and faculty of Wash-
‘ngton and Lee University this
past Monday in Evans Hall.

In his address, Justice Powell
used the Civil War and its after-
‘ath to emphasize the history of
Washington and Lee, as well as
expressing his concern for “a-
nother period of rare problems”
whieh the United States is ex-
periencing today.

The convocation also coincided
with the annual “tapping” cere-
‘nonies for Omicron Delta Kappa,
a national honorary leadership
fraternity first established at
Washington and Lee on Dec. 3,
1914. ODK now has chapters on
over 140 colleges and universities
across the country and is recog-
nized as one of the highest honors
one can receive.

Those who were initiated into
ODK are as follows: Honorary
‘nitiates — Thomas Hal Clarke,
graduate of W&L Law School in

1938, was appointed by President
Nixon to serve as a member of
the Federal Home Loan Bank
Board, chairman of the American
Bar Association’s section on
Corporation Banking and Busi-
ness Law; Powell Glass, Jr.,
owner of the Glass Publishing
Company, publisher and general
manager of the Lynchburg News
and Daily Advance; Richard C.
Emrey, alumnus of Lehigh Uni-
versity, executive vice-president
of manufacturing for Lee’s and
Burlington House Carpets, a di-
vision of Burlington Industries,
director of the First National
Exchange Bank of Lexington; and
Lewis A. MeMurran, member of
the W&L class of 1936, member
of the Virginia House of Dele-
gates, chairman of the Bicenten-
nial Commission.

Student initiates are as follows:
Law School — Lawrence Henry
Framme, president, Student Bar
Asociation; John Francis Hanzel,
president of class, managing edi-
tor of Law Review; James M.
Coston, Law Review editor, chair-
man of Orientation Committee;
Rex McNaughton Lamb, chairman

Director Friedkin to open
Contact °74 arts symposium

By ROBERT MORECOCK

Academy Award winning di-
rector William Friedkin will be
escorting the devil to the State
Theatre in Lexington when he
opens Contact ’74 Friday, March
i at & Om.

Utilizing clips from his new
film, “The Exorcist,” Friedkin
will discuss new techniques and
special effects in cinematography
—including such bizarre concerns

as levitation, dual personalities
and demonic possession, areas
whic hare in part responsible

for “The Exorcist” exceeding its
$4.5 million budget by $6 million.

The Contact Committee brings
Friedkin here to visually com-
plement this year’s theme of
twentieth century arts. Friedkin’s
efforts in directing “The French
Connection” won him both an
Oscar and the Directors’ Guild
»* America Award as best director
of the year in 1972.

Friedkin’s film making “form-
ula,” as he calls it, is simple: “I
try to make the best picture ever

made. I go for the most I can
get—all the reviews, all the box
office, all the awards. I don’t
always succeed, but I try.”

Friedkin has added the di-
mensions of sight and sound to
the fiction of William Peter
Blatty, the author of “The
Exorcist.” Blatty is also the film’s
producer. Blatty says the film
goes even further than the book.

Editorials and reviews across
the country are reacting to the
new film. From one Washington,
D.c., reviewer: “As a devout
Christian, I am wondering to
what lengths filmmakers will go
to produce such vile and blashem-
ous trash.” Other comments: “The
power of the movie is overwhelm-
ing,” “The bizarreness and blunt-
ness with which the reality of
evil is depicted is truly stunning,”
“Viewing the film is a traumatic
and potentially vomiting experi-
ence.”

Friedkin aims for audience
participation in his films. “The
Exorcist” is one film where this
goal is attained.

of Legal Aid Society; and Beverly
Howard Wood, president of legal
fraternity, chairman of Athletic
Committee.

Senior Undergraduates—George
William Austin, III, Phi Beta
Kappa, Phi Eta Sigma, Rhodes
Scholar nominee, Ring-tum Phi
sports editor; James Harold
Betay, Jdr., Phi Hta Sigma, co-
chairman of Contact; Michael
Guroian, chairman SWMSF,
Who’s Who; Thomas Berry Long,
ill, president of senior class, stu-
dent Control Committee, Dance
Board: James Lane Nalley, Jr.,
president of Commerce fraternity,
vice-president senior class; Rolf
Gregor Piranian, Phi Eta Sigma
Assistant Head Dorm Counselor;
Herbert Ray Rubenstein, Phi Eta
Sigma, Pi Sigma Alpha, chair
man of Student Curriculum Com-
mittee; Martin Edward Stein, Jr.,
University Council two years,
Rhodes Scholar nominee, Contact;
Douglas Mackubin Thomas, actor
and director in University Theat-
er, Who’s Who; Robert Palmer
Trice, Feature editor, Ring-tum
Phi, University Council; David
Joseph Turk, Boys’ Club, Assist-
ant Head Dorm Counselor, and
William Paul Wallace, Jr., Uni-
versity Council, IFC Social chair-
man, Who’s Who.

Junior Undergraduates — Paul
Jeffrey Lancaster, Editor, Ring-
tum Phi; Benjamin Lee Bailey,
Phi Eta Sigma, EC, University
Council; William Thurlow W.
Brotherton, captain, swimming
team, dorm counselor; and
Thomas Boyd Ramey, Hl, secre-
tary IFC, dorm counselor, Big
Brother.

Lancaster is re-elected
as Ring tum Phi editor

Junior Paul J. Lancaster was
re-elected to the position of editor-
in-chief of the Ring-tum Phi Tues-
dav night.

Lancaster will serve until the
end of the current school year.
The Publications Board, in an-
nouncing the editorship selection,
said it had decided to move the
election of editor annually to the
spring, as was previously done.

The Board moved the election
date so that the editors and busi-
ness managers of all publications
would be elected at the same
time. Onlv the editorship of the
Phi was contested Tuesday.

Elections for all publications
positions will now be in the
spring.

 

 

Lewis
Powell was the featured speak-
er at Monday’s Founders’ Day-
ODK tapping convocation.
—Photo by Bill Robinson

Supreme Court Justice

EC discusses

curriculum

By ROBERT PUGH

The Curriculum Committee is
planning joint  faculty-student
discussions on the curriculum.

Herb Rubenstein, committee
chairman, told the EC that plans
are underway for periodic discus-
sions involving students and de-
partment heads. The students will
be five majors. Rubenstein in-
tends to ask for five minutes of
classtime one day in February
for explanation and completion
of a new curriculum survey. The
Asian Studies meeting has been
rescheduled for Feb. 5.

Gary Avery, Student Recruit-
ment Committee Chairman, said
his committee is attempting to
raise money from foundations,
and plans a fund-raising trip to
New York and Chicago during
the Washington holiday.

Lewis Hannah, Mock Conven-
tion Committee Chairman, said
the committee is organizing plans
for the 1976 convention. Founda-
tions are being asked to donate
funds, and the convention intends
to get recognition as a Bicen-
tennial Celebration. Reed Morgan

(Continued on page 8)
Page 2 THE RING-TUM PHI
The winter break
and the fuel shotage

Next month’s semester break (Feb. 13-17) may not turn out to
xe much of a break for a good number of Washington and Lee
students, simply because of the energy crisis.

As currently scheduled, the break begins Wednesday (presum-
ably after a student’s last class) and ends when classes start bright
and early Monday morning.

That means most students who plan to go home or anywhere
else would come back to Lexington Sunday night.

This is fine for the student living within a gas tank of W&L
and for students who are not planning to travel by car in their
plight from Lexington.

But a large number of students who want to go home live more
than a gas tank away, so to speak. With gasoline unavailable
from late Saturday night until Monday morning, such students would
either have to come back on a Saturday night, heaven forbid, or
not leave this campus at all during that break, heaven even more
forbid.

 

Two solutions seem practical. The first would be to place the
Friday, Feb. 15, classes on Thursday, Feb. 14, and then give students
that Friday, Saturday, Sunday, and Monday off from classes. This
way, the Tuesday-Thursday classes and the Monday-Wednesday-Fri-
day classes would each lose one day of instruction during that break,
as originally planned. And, students would be able to return on a
Monday, with the normal class schedule resuming Tuesday.

Secondly, the university could change the break from Wednesday
evening through Sunday night to Friday evening through Tuesday
night. Again, TT and MWF classes would each lose one period, as
scheduled, on that Monday and Tuesday. And the gas problem is
averted.

The time is now for the appropriate channels of the administra-
tive waterways of this university to deal with this problem. The
University Council, which is normally responsible for the university
calendar, meets next Thursday, and, if needed, the faculty meets the
following Monday.

Certainly a change in scheduling of the break could not affect
classes greatly. It could, however, affect greatly those students who
want a semester break, away from W&L, and who are unable,
because of the gas situation, to get away. And isn’t that what the
purpose of a Winter Term break was in the first place?

—P.J.L.

 
   

‘Don’t go away. I gotta hundred of ’em.’

Thursday, January 24, 1974

Traveller’s advice
questioned

Sir:

This letter is in reference to
last week’s “Ask Traveller” col-
umn. Before I say anything else,
I would like to congratulate the
author of “Traveller” on the Jan.
10 column on co-eds at W&L. I
have less praise concerning last
week’s article.

Though I have great esteem for
anyone who can write so enter-
taining an article as “Ask Travel-
ler,’ I must question his decency
for the unnecessary remarks he
made about the South in his last
article. The column was well-writ-
ten, but it is such a mis-repre-
sentation of the true South that
I must condemn him for it. I
tddress the following remarks to
the author of “Ask Traveller.”

I must warn you that the sub-
ject of the War Between the
States is rather a touchy subject
in Lexington. As a student of
W&L, you are foolish to mention
Gettysburg with General Lee
looking constantly over your
shoulder with the Sword of
Damocles raised in his right hand.

Sir, you have no more of an
idea of the true South as I have
of the People’s Republic of China.
I cannot blame you for this, how-
ever, for I myself might draw
the wrong conclusion given such
a pitiful representation as the
city of Lexington. I suggest you

ee

ATTERS TO The

 

explore the South a little further
before you declare it “strange”
and “mysterious.”

The gentlemen with the strange
handshakes and passwords are
not familiar to me; however, I
do know many of your so-called
“Odd Fellows” who sport the wide
grins. I can only infer that the
stuff behind their ears, which
you mistook for Spanish moss,
was actually Mexisan grass. This
variety is somewhat more indigin-
ous to the South.

You will kindly restrict your
articles to subjects on which you
have at least a minimum of
knowledge. I remain,

your humble servant,
Anonymous

Dear Anonymous,

We normally do not accept
hand-written, unsigned letters.
but in your case we just had
to make an exception.

By the tone of your article,

you seem to imply that the
column on the South was a

misrepresentation and was in-
decent while the article on co-
eds was quite a true representa-
tion and was quite proper. We
wonder if you would have the
same feelings if you were a
co-ed from the North.

The point is, of course, that
“Traveller” merely presents the
views of one individual, male
or female. (We ourselves do
not know who “Traveller” is.
believe it or not.) We certainly
hope that last week’s column
was a mis-representation of the
South, as we hope the article
before that was a_ mis-repre-
sentation of co-eds.

We are certain that the male
northerners who read the col-
umn treated both articles as
mis-representations. Apparently
it all depends on who the sub-
ject of the article is as to
whether the article is decent.

Signed,
Anonymous editor

Suicide and W&L

Sir:

“Michael Wayne McWhirter, 19,
died Saturday of a  self-inflict-
ed...” This time it was he. Next
time, you or me?

We are not few, we are merely
silent. We are on the outside
looking in, unsure of which side
of the bars we are on, What is
life? While we may never really

understand it, we may be able
to learn to live with it.
How? I’ve contemplated end-

ing my non-existence on numer-
oues occasions and actually at-
tempted it no less than three
times, yet you've saved me every
time. That unknowing smile, that
warm look, the kind greeting in
passing, though of minor import-
ance to many, are the sustenance
of us few.

We sit in the back corners of
class. We are shy, reserved, quiet.
We're not above it, too intelligent
or some sort of sexual perversion.
We need someone, something,

(Continued on page 3)
Thursday, January 24, 1974

   
  

Inside-Out

By ROME SCOTT

  

[ swore I wouldn’t do this but the movie is so good I’ve got to
add my bit to those of the immortals.

“Citizen Kane.”

An incredible, unbelievable, fantastic... (Get the picture?) movie.
It’s certainly the best I’ve ever seen and it may be the best I ever
Will see,

(Now that I’ve gotten all that out of my system—on with the
show.)

“Citizen Kane,” made in 1941 has been lauded by many film
critics for many years as the break-through film.

In the ’30’s and ’40’s films in America were largely formula
films, films that would guarantee a profit to the studio that produced
them,

Orson Welles was invited by RKO to make the film and was
allowed to do it his way. Although it wasn’t a box office success
When first released (one of the reasons Welles didn’t make another
film as excellent as “Kane’”), the movie lives on while many of its
formula brothers of the art have long since been forgotten.

Welles used “Kane” successfully to show that a film can be
interesting as well as artful.

The photography, under the auspices of Gregg Toland, gives the
black and white movie a richness of interpretation and enormous
depth. Camera angles make graphic the contrast between space and
a lack of it.

The story line is interesting almost to a fault and the viewer
loses himself completely to the life of Charles Foster Kane.

The film opens with a newsreel prompted by the death of Kane,
Who had been a powerful newspaper publisher. The newsreel ends
With the last word of Kane, “Rosebud,” and the producer of the
film turns one of his staff loose to find out who “Rosebud” is.

After questioning three of the people closest to Kane, the staffer
still hasn’t learned who “Rosebud” is, but it no longer matters be-
cause he has put together a complete picture of the man.

He finds that Kane was a man who needed to be surrounded by
people who loved him. The catch is—he couldn’t love back.

In the end we find out “Rosebud” is the name of his sled and
realize Kane, who was taken from home when he was young to be
brought up as a rich boy, really was searching for a childhood he
never had.

He was seeking the freedom of a boyhood he knew for a short
tome before he became rich.

(Looking back on what my typewriter has just written, I feel
the plot will probably look trite to the reader who hasn’t seen the
flick. Take my word for it—the movie doesn’t put the plot across
that way.)

Narrative technique, the explicitness of the sound reproduction
(you can hear ac hair squeak) and the acting all add up to make a
movie that will probably be remembered longer than I will be
remembered.

Admittedly this review skims only the surface but if you think
I can cover completely a movie that has been analyzed for 20-years
plus and is still being analyzed... you're wrong (but I appreciate it.),

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

sometime. Look at us occasional-
lv. Take the time, for when we're
gone it’s our loss, not yours and
you have no right asking why.

“A note was found by the
body. Police have not released the
contents. We all write the
seine thing: “,..l€s time =I re
vealed my tragedy, my greatest
faults have always been an un-
bridled curiosity, an unhealthy
imagination, and an attempt to
inform myself about all emo-
tions without being able to feel
most of them... every reality
is for me repulsive...

I am paying for all those who,
like myself, can never find an
ideal in their lives, who remain
always the victims of their hesita-
tions, and who consider their
existence to be a meaningless
game. I see such persons increas-
ing more and more with the cen-
turies, It is these I address my-
self. Since I have tasted every
joy!! I am now ready for a dis-
honorable death...”

If you ask yourself who I am,
look around you right now as you
are reading this and find the
saddest, loneliest looking person.
When you look at me and I look
up and see you, don’t turn away,
but at least give me a smile or
nod your head knowingly.

Re

SAB applauded

Sir:

I would like to applaud the Stu-
dent Activities Board for a job
well done last Friday in the Na-

Ask Traveller

tional Shakespeare Company’s
presentation of “As You Like It.’”’

The event, probably the SAB’s
greatest success to date, was made
possible by the Culture Commit-
tee of the SAB under junior John
Killpack and the encouragement
of the entire SAB with Mike
srittin as chairman.

The performance was a sweep-
ing success given the limitations
of staging offered by Doremus
Gymnasium. It attracted a large
and enthusiastic crowd, much un-
like past SAB events.

The SAB has a certain re-
sponsibility to the community to
inform them of upcoming activi-
ties as well as have some feeling
for the types of activities stu-
dents, faculty and friends of the
academic community may be in.
terested in.

But students, faculty and friends
of the academic community have
an obligation as well to respond
favorably to SAB activities. SAB
has worked hard this year and.
Vet all it has received in return is
one activity after another going
into the hole.

[ hope that students, faculty
and others will look more care-
fully at the programs of the SAB
with favor rather than with ran-
cor or criticism. The SAB could
be a tool for greater unity among
the university community if given
support and nourished, but as a
leaf in autumn, it can wither
away and die if it no longer
receives support from it life-giv-
ing source, its trunk.

Gary Avery, '74

 

Q—After an old alum assured me there was a house of ill repute here
in his day, I checked the address, only to find a gas station
occupying the spot. Was there ever in fact a pleasure palace in
Lexington and why did the station attendant hand me a road
map of Wisconsin and two dirty air filters?

ATTENTION FRATERNITIES

Owing to manpower and energy
shortages, the Ring-tum Phi is
ceasing delivery of papers to the
fraternity houses. A bundle of
papers for each house will be left

near the Ring-tum Phi stand in
the Co-op at about lunchtime.
Each house should designate
someone to pick up the papers
and deliver them at the house.

THE RING-TUM PHI

The Ring-tum Phi is published on Thursdays during the college year.
It is printed by the Journalism Laboratory Press, Washington and Lee
University. The mailing address is Box 899, Lexington, Virginia 24450.
Entered as second class matter September 29, 1946, at the Post Office,
Lexington, Virginia 24450, under the act of March 3, 1879. Subscription
rates: $6.00 for the school year, $3.00 for the semester,

 

PAUL J. LANCASTER
Editor-in-chief

bite, (oe, hc
Me ii kc.

Circulation

ANDREW J. A. CHRISS
Business Manager

SS SS SS Jess Reeves
SS Bill Austin
SS SS = Bill Robinson

Rome Scott

SS David Lee

ME iss ee Dave Finnell, John Killpack, Chuck Alt

Tim Moore, Steve Yevich, Tom Rittenburg,

Bill Flesher, Paul Morella, W. Patrick Hinely, John 8amoiski

A—Me thinks the fellow was having a small joke. Filling station
people are a simple, fun-loving folk and are just as liable to
hide a garter snake in your cubbyhole as put air in your tires.

As to your question, such a house did flourish in Lexington
in the early 1900's. A vigorous crack-down in local law enforce-
ment, however, and the madame’s refusal to celebrate Labor
Day on a Monday led to the establishment’s demise in 1924, It
reopened briefly in 1929, catering especially to the academic
community, but students bitterly complained that all the High.
lights in the waiting room were at least two years old. This,
coupled with the proprietor’s claim that the bottom had fallen
out of the market necessitated closure for good; the two-story
house on Main Street was recamped as a Canadian snack bar,
specializing in drab food, while the young ladies of the home
reportedly “got religion” as they crossed the county line and
successfully toured the military installations in Virginia as a
gospel octet.

Gradually, over the years, the demand for a bordello in
Lexington died down, heralding the new era of permissiveness
on our nation’s campuses. Dating was given strong impetus in
the Valley with the discovery of the road trip in 1962 and the
Dutch treat in 1967. Going-for-all-the-marbles replaced Charades
as the favorite college parlor game, and suddenly a girl’s amateur
standing down the road became something actively sought after,
instead of merely respected.

Today, though VMI cadets would give the black piping off
their trousers for it, a return of the shuttered flesh pot to Lex-
ington seems improbable.

Q—But, outside of Lexington, where can I find such an establishment?

A—Wisconsin,
> ‘
° rea
age =

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

A review—

‘The Man of Mode’

By JOHN ELLIS
fhe on-stage skills of Mark
Daughtrey, Don Hogle and Martha
Evans, and the directoral skills
f Lee Kahn highlighted the Uni-

ersity Theatre’s production of
Sir George Etherege’s Restrora-

tion comedy, “The Man of Mode.”
Diminishing the seriousness of
romances of the principal
‘Naracters in the play, Director
Kahn stage mimic throughout,
every secondary character build-
ing the buffoonery until the ulti-
mate buffoon, the crowning exag-
geration, a Restoration clown, Sir
Fopling Flutter (played for all
he’s worth by the devastating
Mark Daughtrey) dazzled _ the
1udience with his betassaled fop-
pery. Indeed, the mimic, led by
Daughtrey, carried the evening
and the audience.

Martha Evans, in the more de-
nure role of Harriet, carried the
lramatic action of the play with
consistant characterization and
conviction. Every motion of her
jan (or whatever) was_ totally
within the character’s mature per-
sonality.

As her mother, Pree Ray suc-
ceeded admirably, making what
could have been a trite, fluffy
role a believable character. Betty
Kahn as the empassioned Mrs.
Loveit brought to the role the
fervor it deserved and avoided
the occasional lapse in characteri-
zation that sometimes beleaguer-
ed the production (though no one
character consistently lapsed, a
few did once or twice).

Happy Pullman as a precocious
maid seemed a little frightened
hy the audience at first, but came
on with her crisp sense of timing
to sharpen into focus the scenes
she appeared in later. The other
women performers were good,
and would deserve more mention
in a longer review.

Barney Skelton, in his first
stage role, brought a glib
mischieviousness to Dorimant
that hurt the play’s effectiveness
(it’s easy to be harsh, but the
manner in which Skelton carried
so heavy a load was hopeful.
Dorimant requires a nasty, but
human figure. Had the role been

EARN WITHOUT EVER
LEAVING YOUR
APARTMENT BUILDING

Become an AVON Representative.
There may be an opening in the
building in which you live. You'll
neet new people, work your own
nours and earn, without ever
leaving your apartment building.
Call now:

Linda Lickliter
Call Collect
703-885°5980

more benevolent, Skelton would
have had an easier time.).

Dave DeChristopher as_ the
goatish old Bellair was consistant
and amusing. Hugh Sisson eeked
a charming foppishness, but
brought depth to the potentially
shallow young Bellair. Kit Weit-
nauer succeeded as Mr. Medley,
the sociable gossip about town
and country. Weitnauer played
the part foppishly enough to al-
low Flutter’s exaggeration its
point of mimic, without running
into hyperbole. The minor char-
acters were all fine.

Lee Kahn’s direction was de-
lightful an dimaginative. The en-
tire action was played as a game
and the audience was let in on
it by the mimics as the play ap-
proached climax.

Kahn staged as the play’s cli-
max a scene where the characters
circled one way around the stage
as Flutter and his page circled
the other (the page directed the
conversation). This _ staging
brought home the director’s view-
point without being unduly rude
to the Restoration style. Though
a modern touch, it exemplified
the heart of the play’s message.

O. K. Barnes’ set was notably
furnished (Barens built the furni-
ture). However, the black plastic
background was ineffective ex-
cept to give the white objects on
the set and the colorful costumes
and trappings a dreamv effect,
like soft focus.

Altogether? An admirable pro-
duction, a small step forward for
the University Theatre. Though
haunted by the potential the cast
as a whole didn’t quite reach,
“Man of Mode” displayed the
forward motion of several of
Washington and Lee’s more crea-
tive individuals.

 

 

R/C Theatres
Regal Cinema Fare
in Lexington

State Theatre

12-14 W. Nelson St. 463-3424

ONE BIG WEEK

Executive Action

Lyric Cinema

135 S. Main St. 463-3543

NOW SHOWING
Charley Varrick
SUN.-MON.-TUE.
Performance

Rated X

Thursday, January 24, 1974

 

Barney Skelton as Dorament and Champe Leary as Belinda in

“The Man of Mode.”

A review—

—Photo by Charles Grubbs

Shakespeare’s ‘As You Like It’

The clanking heaters and lack
of bleacher space for the overflow
crowd were the only disappoint-
ments in Friday night’s perform-
ance of William Shakespeare’s
As You Like It by the National
Shakespeare Company in Doremus
Gymnasium.

The play was performed with
a bawdy exuberance that delight-
ed the audience from beginning
to end. The comic scenes and
lines were overplayed to the hilt
in a style which made for a very
entertaining show.

It was presented in a two-act
format, with the first act taking
place at the court of Duke Frea-
erick and the second act taking
place in the forest of Arden. The
two settings were effectively jux-
taposed, highlighting the decad-
ence of the frivolous court of
Duke Frederick, the usurper,
with the simpler, pastoral and

musical court of Duke Senior, the
banished brother,

Ralph Pochoda, as Duke Frec-
erick, was very convincing as 4
corrupt ruler, making his arbi-
trary banishments of his niece,
Rosalind, and the wrestling vic-
tor, Orlando, quite believable
The contrast between the two
worlds was further illuminated
by the rational characterization
of Duke Senior, played by Kent
tizeley, who accepted the refu-
gees with open arms.

The main thrust of the comic
action was provided by the foo!,
Touchstone, rendered by Marsha):
fosenblum. The part is consid-
ered by many to be the finest
comic role in all of Shakespeare's
plays. He is the central character
of the play, tying together the
various love subplots and playing
devil’s advocate to the melancholy

(Continued on page 8)

 

SENIOR

 

INFORMAL
PORTRAITS
Prints Available

Monday Evenings 8-9

Thru March 18

Student Center 200

THE CALYX

 

 
Thursday, January 24, 1974

THE RING-TUM PHI

Page 5

 

Worship service opens Black Culture Week

Kiditor’s note: This is the sec-
ond in a series of articles on
the upcoming Black Culture
Week, Feb. 3-8 at Washington
and Lee. The Student Associa-
tion for Black Unity is spon-
soring the week.

By STEVE YEVICH

The opening event of Black
Culture Week will be a worship
service on Feb. 3, at 6 p.m. in
Lee Chapel.

This service, to which the en-
tire student body is invited, will
be a complete Sunday service,
with ushers, programs, sermons,
and an offering. SABU is making
an effort at capturing the es-
sence of the black worship experi-
ence at this ceremony, according
to its officers.

Lutrelle D. Rainey, who is

SABU’s advisor as well as As-
sistant Dean of Students at W&L,
will deliver the main sermon,

“The Courage to Dream.” The
choir and members of the First
Baptist Church, of which Rainey
is minister, will attend the serv-
ice, along with delegations from
other local churches. SABU hopes
that there will be a good turnout
for the event, to get momentum
going for the week.

On Monday night, Feb. 4, Wen-
dell P. Russell, president of Vir-
ginia State College in Petersburg
will be on campus to deliver a
speech on the black experience
in education.

Russell is a
Governor’s Manpower

member of the
Planning

Council, the State Water Control]
Board, and the Executive Com-
mittee of the Southern Regional
Education Board. He received two
bachelor’s degrees at Virginia
Union University, his M.A. at
Case Western Reserve University,

and his doctorate in education
from the University of Virginia.
Prior to going to Virginia
State, Russell worked for Ameri-
can Can Company, first as re-
search manager for public rela-
lions and advertising, then as an

assistant to the vice president in
that department, and finally as
director of public affairs for the
company. For twelves years he
served as Dean of Students and as
Dean of the College at Virginia
Union University.

Department level student imput desired

By HERB RUBENSTEIN

Members of the Student Cur-
riculum Committee have been
working on the creation of a stu-
dent-faculty forum for the dis-
cussion of new courses, depart-
mental policy, and student sug-
gestions for improvement.

Last semester, the Executive
Committee recommended that the
faculty open its monthly meet-
ings in order for students to
voice their opinions concerning
curriculum changes as well as
faculty policies,

The faculty rejected this pro-
posal, stating that substantive
academic or curriculum policies
were not developed in faculty-
wide meetings, but were develop-
ed at the departmental level by
the chairmen and members of
each department. In rejecting the
proposal for open faculty meet-
ings, the faculty advised the stu-
dents that should they want to
take a more active role in giving
suggestions, this should be done

 

$

121 W. Nelson

$

 

NEED EXTRA CASH

STUDENT LOANS AVAILABLE
NO AGE RESTRICTION

PEOPLES Finance Service

OF LEXINGTON

at the departmental level.

Phone 463-3176

$

 

Dry Cleaning

Linen Service

WE DELIVER

UNIVERSITY
CLEANERS

Reliable Service In

Storage & Free Moth Proofing

Shirts Laundered
Clothing Repair

463-3622

The Curriculum Committee has
been contacting the chairmen of
the departments this week and
has discussed the feasibility of
such a forum beginning this
semester. The chairmen were re-
ceptive.

This plan would set up informal
meetings each semester between
a few majors in each department
representing the students and the
department chairmen. This plan
Will provide a good information
channe) for the department chair-
men to inform their students
what new types of courses will

he offered and changes of policy
long before this information has
filtered down to the students in
the past, and it will allow greater
student input.

Any student who wishes to
participate in this new form and
who has declared his major may
volunteer by submitting an ap-
plication in the new Curriculum
Committee “Input” box now in
the Co-op before February. Sopho-
mores are eligible to apply only
if they have decided on their
major. Include your name, class,
and major on your application.

W&L offers Exchange Programs;
applications due by Feb. 19

Washington and Lee will par-
ticipate again this vear with
seven other colleges (Davidson,
Hampden-Svdney, Hollins, Mary
Baldwin, Randolph-Macon, Ran-
dolph-Macon Woman’s, and Sweet
Briar) in an Exchange Program.
The program is designed primar-
ilv for juniors.

To be eligible to take part in
this program, a Washington and
Lee student must have a 2.00
cumulative average on his work.
A student may participate in the
Exchange Program for an aca-
demic year, or, if the calendars
for the two schools fit, for a

shorter period of time.

For those students who wish to
participate in 1974-75, the dead-
line for application is. Feb. 19,
1974. Applications require prior
approval of major department.
Applications should be submitted
to Robert W. McAhren, Associate
Dean of the College, the Ex-
change Program Officer for Wash-
ington and Lee.

Additional informaiton, cata-
logues of participating colleges,
and application blanks are avail-
able in the Office of the Dean of
the College.

 

 

° FOR YOUR EXTRA PIECES OF FURNITURE $
e &
: Varner & Pole :
: 115 Main St. — Lexington, Va. .
Tiskbabchbksacd bcs iendeeeseenneesenseseceseet
(, >

STUDENT S!

Make this your headquarters for Good Food
and Service
We have meal tickets at savings to you
SOUTHERN INN

\ SY)

 

 

 

 

 

 
THE

rage 6)

RING-TUM PHI

 

 

The Washington and Lee swimming team takes on Duke at

TSR

Durham, N.C., Saturday before returning home next Wednesday

against Lynchburg College.

—Photo by Bill Robinson

Thursday, January 24, 1974

Connie Hawkins:

ups

and downs in NBA

sy BILL AUSTIN
Sports Editor

In Sunday’s tight

tween heated rivals Lakers and

Bucks, hot-shots Abdul-Jabbar

and Goodrich scored the points,

but surely the most enigmatic

figure on the floor was Connie
Hawkins.

contest be-

For a few precious seconds of
the fourth quarter, the Hawk
earned both his nickname and his
formidable salary, swooping to-
ward the basket with a single,

controlled motion of supreme
physical grace. His huge hand

wrapped the ball in a magician’s
embrace; he crossed the lane and
slammed the object of his craft
homeward. The sell-out throng of
Milwaukee’ partisans groaned
their appreciation.

In this season, such moments
have been rare for the pround,

Wrestlers, 4-2, are at VMI Saturday

By BILL AUSTIN

Washington and Lee’s wrestl-
ing team boosted its overall rec-
ord to four wins and two defeats
by gaining a split in last Satur-
dav’s dual match with Western
Carolina University and the Uni-
versity of Richmond.

Before a fair-sized gathering of
the faithful in cozy Old Doremus

 

East Lexington
Grocery

Beer — Ice — Gas
Party Supplies — Snacks
Open 7 days a week
ABC No, 2078—8 a.m.-10 p.m.
SHOP FOR SUNDAY
EVENING DINNER
We Sell & Deliver Kegs

 

 

 

Ma

Leeda ead betmdd tts

Gym, the Generals dominated
UR’s fledgling group, 30-15. West-
ern Carolina’s challenge proved
considerably stiffer, as the two
teams battled to a 15-15 deadlock
going into the final heavyweight
confrontation.

In the pressure-filled contest,
freshman Steve Schwezerhof
scored a first period takedown to

Paul’s Bike Shop

11 N. New St., Staunton
Phone 886-1310
PAUL Now Accepting All
BIKE REPAIRS at
Sears’ Lexington Store

Pick-Up Every Wednesday
Returned On Wednesday.
Also New 10 Speeds Batavus
Bikes For Sale.

a

‘ :
: The First National Bank :
‘ of Lexington :
z has special checking accounts for students *

*

le +
erfoogertoogetoortofeogentooenteogntoeotoeognteognteofentnteofntotoorteentooesfeofertnfeofentefeatnteofestoetesteoeae

grab a 2-0 lead. However, his
beefy opponent, David Friedland,
utilized his superior weight to
ultimately edge Schwezerhof, 4-2.
The decision gave Western Caro-
line an 18-15 triumph.

On this afternoon of alternat-
ing victory and defeat, several
W&L wrestlers picked up double
wins. Leading the way was junior
Doug Ford, who quickly pinned
both of his opponents in the 177
pound classification. In addition,

Jim Stieff and Jim Crytzer, of the

150 and 142 pound divisions re-
spectively, garnered twin tri-
umphs for the squad.

Sam Lewis (158), Roy Adel-
mann (126), Lee Keck (118) and
Dave Knack (190) contributed
one winning decision apiece. In
particular, sophomore Knack dis-
played real signs of potential,
though wrestling 11 pounds under
the weight limit of his class. His
loss was to WCU’s Mike Ingrao,
a former High School Prep Lea-
gue champion for the state of
Virginia, by 4-3.

The wrestling Generals face a
tough challenge this coming
Saturday at VMI, when they en-
counter the home-standing Key-
dets, plus North Carolina and
Davidson. The rigorous test be-
gins at 1:30 p.m.

majestic B-ball performer. Indeed,
the Lakers ultimately lost

game to the Bucks, 94-90, when
Hawkins missed a pair of lov
percentage jump shots. The ups
and downs are seemingly chara-
cteristic of this 69” forward’
game-style, and of his life.

Certainly, it is strange to see
Hawkins in a Laker uniform,
particularly when he teams with
the likes of Gail Goodrich. His
dislike for the showy guard found
its way into best-selling print
when the troubled Hawk put his
life saga into David Wolf’s Foul.

The two first played together
on the Phoenix Suns, the NBA
team which signed Hawkins when
his long-contested suit against the
league was settled out of court.
During the 1969-70 season, he fin
ally was able to exhibit the skills
which had been bound in ob-
scurity since his innocent mix-up
in the college betting scandals of
1961. Though the fame and riches
found in the big league of the
sport were denied him, Hawkins
nevertheless continued to play his
game. He really had no other
choice, for basketball was all he
knew.

And the talent! It was always
there: on the courts of Harlem’s
school yards, or in the now ex:
tinct ABL, or in the ABA. Even
on the Globetrotters, there spark-
ed that incredible ability which
incited super-clown Meadowlark
Lemon to physically attack Hawk-
ins when he could no _ longer
contro] his envy of the encroach-
ing show-stealer.

Alas, NBA existence held a dis-
turbingly similar pattern for the
Hawk, when he noticed that his
teammate Goodrich was reluctant
to share the ball in tense game
situations. When “Goodie” was
traded to Los Angeles, the Suns’
star-role seemed solidly Hawkins’.
Not for long. Charlie Scott
abandoned the Virginia Squires
for a fat Phoenix contract and
brought to the team a guard-
oriented offense once more.

Just as importantly, the swift
Scott captured the hearts of Sun
patrons, relegating the Hawk to
subordinate status. Last season,
his scoring average plummeted
from 25 points per game to 16,
and the former pride of Arizona

(Continued on page 8)

 

Mr. PiBB

TRADE-MARK

The University Supply Store

Snackbar -

School Supplies
Open 7:30-4 8-10:30

it goes down good

A PRODUCT OF THE COCA-COLA COMPANY

 
Thursday,

January

24, 1974

THE RING-TUM PHI

Page 7

 

W&L Generals win 3 straight,
face powerful Roanoke Saturday

Plaving before the sparsest
crowds of the season, the baskKet-
ball Generals surged toward the
500 mark with three straight
wins this week.

W&L’s season mark climbed to
5-¢ with wins of 73-57 over Emory
and Henry, 92-80 over arch-rival
Hampden-Sydney, and 114-74 win
over last year’s W&L Invitational
winner, Lebanon Valley. Results
of Wednesday night’s. contest
against Madison were unavailable.

The W&L-Emory and Henry
clash was no artistic success, to
be sure, unless you see art in
the form of whistle-blowing.

The officials called 53 personal
fouls. In addition, E-H coach
Arnold Mellinger was slapped
with a pair of technical fouls.

W&L started slowly—the squad
failed to score until over three
minutes into the game, and the
first tally came as Greg Croghan
sank a free throw after the first
of Mellinger’s technicals. W&L
then trailed, 6-1.

We&L finally gained the lead
midway through the first half,
then turned on the defense to
hold the visitors to six ‘points
in the final eight minutes while
scoring 19 of its own.

Captain Skip Lichtfuss led the
way with 21 points, while Norm
Kristoff and John Rice added 10
and 12, respectively.

Bo Williams did not play be-
cause of the flu.

Those who came to the Thurs-
day game with Hampden-Sydney
saw the Generals that were
promised to the fans at the sea-
son’s outset—running, aggressive,
high-scoring.

 

Hamric and Sheridan
JEWELERS

Watch and Jewelry Repair

| Hand Engraving & Class Rings

| 463-2022

 

 

   
     
 

Pict uresque

For

KEYDET-GEVERAL '
Restaurant and Motel

Truly One of the South’s Finest
Superb Dining and

Reservations Phone

° Complete Facilities for
| Banquets, Weddings & Receptions
( One Mile West of — on U. S. 60

They saw Skip Lichtfuss reach
another milestone.

And they saw another
fell Norm Kristoff.

The 6’8” center came up limp-
ing after a first half chase for a
loose ball. The injury has been
diagnosed by trainers as a pos-
sible “stress fracture’ which
could keep Kristoff out of cation
for as long as three weeks.

He might, however, be ready in
time for Saturday’s contest here
against Roanoke. Then again, he
might not.

As for the game against H-S,
the first half belonged to Kristoff,
Lichtfuss and John Podgajny.

Kristoff collected 12 points and
eight rebounds in his first half
appearance.

Podgajny sank six of seven
field goal tries for another dozen
points.

And Lichtfuss rarely missed as
he scored 20 points in the first
half. His final bucket of the half
gave him a career total of 1290
at W&L, moving him ahead of
Mike Neer into sixth place on the
all-time W&L scoring list.

Those three combnied for 44
of the Generals’ 48 first half
points, and W&L led, 48-33.

But W&L lost the big man ad-
vantage over H-S early in the
second half, as Kristoff’s replace-
ment, Randy Taylor, fouled out
with four minutes gone into the
final period. The Tigers chopped
away at the 20-point W&L lead,
and with 5:20 left, trailed by only
eight points,

injury

Enter Jerry Porath, and the
senior guard engineered three
straight steals for six quick

points. Croghan sandwiched those
six with four of his own, and
the Generals clinched the win.

Lichtfuss finished with 36
points, 14 rebounds and five as-
Croghan added 19 and
grabbed nine rebounds. Podgajny
scored 18.

sists.

  
 

Atmosphere.
Serving Food in the
Fine Tradition of Virginia.

463-2143

 

And, last Saturday, Lebanon
Valley looked completely different
from one year ago when they
took the W&L invitational. With
the loss of three starters from
that team plus the loss this vear
of the team’s 6’9” center, a once-
tough team is having it problems.

The Flying Dutchmen kept

An open letter to

close for a time, trailing by two
with 12 minutes left in the first
half. But W&L outscored Lebanon
Valley 6620 in the next 17
minutes and breezed to its high-
est point total of the season.
Lichtfuss scored 25 and Tav!or
24 to pace the winners. Progajny
added 15 and Paul Maloney 11.

WLUR

(weird, ludicrous, ugly, and ridiculous)

Since you lost to the fabulous Ring-tum five last year,
72-72 (we were given the win on the basis of riding time).
we will allow you a rematch in the historic basketball
series between the two campus media, a series which,

after 225 vears of the existence of W&L,

stands at l-l.

We will meet you on the playing fields of new

DOREMUS GYM on FEBRUARY 2, 1974, at 7 p.m.

prior to the varsity contest against Bowie State.

And,

simply enough, we will bury you.
Sut, so much for compliments. See you on the court

a week from Saturday.
Opening Soon
The

Kaleidscope

Arts and Crats Shop
11 South Jefferson St.

  
 

 

   

Wendell’s
Barber Shop

OPEN 9-6

9 South Jefferson

   
  

Closed Wednesday

 

Washington and Lee University
Bookstore

TWO NEW SHOWS
Original World War | Posters

(Courtesy of The Marshall Foundation)

Michael Miley, Photographer

(From The Burns Collection)

SSCCCSCOSESSSCESSSECH SOHOSCHCSSSESECESCHSESCSESCSESESS
Page 8

THE RING-TUM PHI

gelt

Your Happy Shopping Store

 

 

 

 

‘Twister’ Western Jean Jacket
This Moment’s Washed-Out Blue
$10

Soft-brushed, washed out, wonderfully ‘lived in’ looking

cotton denim. Navy stitching call attention to patch
pockets, shoulder yoke, neat shortstop length, Western-

style snaps, 8, M, L, XL.

Downtown Open Daily —- 9:30-5:50
Lexington, Va, Friday Nite Til 8:30)
463-3111 Saturday 9:30-5:30

 

Thursday, January 24, 1974

‘As You Like It’—a review

(Continued from page 4)

lovers. Rosenblum rose to the
challenge which the role _ pre-
sented with a great deal of

vitality and energy.

His obvious knowledge of the
stage and the character enabled
his to do justice to the essential
role of Touchstone.

Similarly, the parts of Rosalind,
plaved by Sharon Swink, and
Celia, played by Anni Long, were
portrayed with great insight and
an equal understanding of what
pleases an audience.

There were only two parially
unsatisfying characterizations in
the play: Jaques, played by Ralph
Pochoda, and Orlando, played by
James Klawin.

Jaques, the melancholy lord
serving Duke Senior, seemed too
light-hearted in the cozy forest—

world to
his extreme
through,

Orlando, the romantic suitor to
Rosalind, came across as an ab-
surd puppy dog at some points
in his affair with Rosalind. How-
ever, these faults were more than
mitigated by the actors’ remark
able ability to entertain the audi-
ence throughout.

Apart from the play, equally
impressive was the portable set
which the company carried with
it. Though not elaborate, it pro-
vided scenery designer, Jeremy
Unger, an effective and workabie
stage upon which to work his
artistry — using such common-
place items as green umbrellas
to establish the forest atmosphere.

All in all, the Production of
As You Like It was extremely en-
jovable and successful,

allow the comedy of
nature to show

Hollins dance group, ‘Members of Orchesis,’
to perform at W&L as part of current tour

Members of Orchesis, the Hol-
lins College student dance group,
will perform at Washington and
Lee on Friday, January 25 at 8:30
as the fifth stop in a month-long
tour.

Comprising the tour group are
nine members of the regular
Orchesis troupe, a special student,
and lecturer in dance, Haruki
Fujimoto. The tour is a January
short term project for which the
students will receive academic
credit.

Dances in the program have
been choreographed by Fujimoto
and Paula Levine, associate pro-
fessor of dance, and by students.

Highlighting the program will
be the performance of a 1965 rep-
ertory number by Miss Levine,
“Dot and Line.” In this modern
dance, Fujimoto and_ students
portray “a dot, a line and a
squiggle.” Miss Levine’s “Techni-
que Study,” a demonstration
of Graham dance technique, will
be presented by nine students.

“Vinetas,” eight modern dance
vignettes, choreographed by Fuji-
moto, will be performed by the
choreographer and ten students.

Ginger Nicrosi will perform in
her own composition—and dance
in ballet style—to selections from
Prokofiev’s “Classical Symphony.”

Committees address EC

(Continued from page 1)
said several speakers are being
considered for this May. Both
students are unsure whether a
special student tax will be needed
in 1975-76 to fund the conven-
tion.

Sophomore EC rep Leland Mc-
Cullough said the faculty is very
concerned about missing books in
the library. Ways to alleviate the
problem were discussed and ac-
tion was deferred.

DANCE
There will be a dance in the
Cockpit on Friday, January 25.
Admission will be free and the
featured band will be “Voyce.”

Other student performers are

Orchesis president Susan Fox,
Kay Russell, Eleanor Denegre,
Renee Perez, special student
David Schultz, Lynne Adams,
Lynn Frielinghaus, Luceanna
Overall and Beth Sencindiver.
The regular Orchesis troupe

comprises 15 to 20 students wh»
are admitted by audition. Mem-
bership offers experience in cho-
reography and preformance. The
group presents two programs and
participates in other productions
throughout the year.

Connie Hawkins—NBA

(Continued from page 6)
was ripe trade bait, just another
high-priced player to peddle away.

Early this season, Hawkins
found a new home in Los Angeles.
The Lakers hoped that he would
replace Jim MceMillian, the cun-
ning butterball sent to Buffalo
for Elmore Smith. In this task,
Hawkins has enjoyed only partial
success. His point production has
further slackened, as (again)
Goodrich keys offensive strata:
gem. Yet he plays on a division.
leading club for the first time in
his NBA career, as the Lakers
presently hold a three game bulge
over runner-up Golden State,

At 31, the Hawk may already
be entering the twilight of a ca-
reer diminished by the onus of
clandestine black-listing policies.
Surely, he will never attain the
heights of basketball greatness
that observers of his single year
of play at Iowa designated his
just due.

In a time when comparatively
mearge talents are wooed and
won by fast-spending franchises
Hawkins is an apt reminder of
another, grimmer side to profes-
sional sport. For the fortunate
few, pro basketball can be a king-
maker, the perpetrator of a coin-
hungry American dream. Hawkins
experienced the seamy, hypocriti-
cal side of that dream for nearly
a decade. The nightmare, its stifl-
ing effect upon a potential never
fullfilled, will linger alwavs.
THE RING-TUM PHI

Washington and Lee University’s Weekly Newspaper

 

Vol. LAAIITI

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA, JANUARY 31, 1974

Number 15

 

olumnist Art Buchwald to visit
here in Contact 74 symposium

 

Art Buchwald

By BILL AUSTIN

Art Buchwald, the man Time
Magazine has labeled ‘the most
successful humorous columnist
in the United States,’ will put
aside his devastating pen for a
visit to the W&L campus on Mon-
day, March 4th. His appearance
will include a 3:30 p.m. stop-in at
the Bookstore for coffee and in-
formal talk, followed by an 8
p.m. speech at Lee Chapel.

Buchwald now joins film-maker
William Friedkin as part of the
Contact Committee’s 1974 offer-
ing. In keeping with this year’s
Contact theme of twentieth-cen-
tury arts, this columnist, author
playwright and media-personality
exudes a special kind of artistry,
for he is the acknowledged master
of caustic, truth-telling wit. Con-
sequently, his syndicated column,
“Capitol Punishment,” is includ-
ed in more than 400 newspapers

world-wide, while his personal
appearances have drawn raves

and roars.

Gazing clear-sightedly into the
heart of Washington’s scandals
and intrigues, Buchwald extracts
simple meanings which reduce
the maze of governmental his-
trionics to comprehendable fop-
pery.

Though his verbal jabs some-
times offend, they allow readers
to enjoy a brief respite from the
crisis-atmosphere that seemingly
pervades the land. Indeed, Buch-
wald salvages smiles in an en-
vironment of non-stop grimness
That, by any standard, is achieve-
ment of the highest sort.

Buchwald makes from 35 to 40
paid speeches per year, yet still
approaches the chore with vi-
talitv and anticipation. In a recent
Washington Post interview, he
called the experience “a great
way to get out of the city and
talk to people. I get a lot of
ideas from it for the column
It's very stimulating.” Then, lest
anyone take him too seriously,
he added, “It's an-egotrip ...
besides the dough.”

NOTICE

Seniors are asked to complete
Calyx cards with activities,
honors, organizations, major, and
similar information as soon as
possible. Please turn the cards
into the Calyx box at the Uni-
versity Center.

Fancy Dress theme chosen; arts discussed

By ROBERT PUGH
The theme of this vear’s Fancy

“The Land of Oz.”
Student Activity Board Chair-
man Mike Brittin made that an-
nouncement at Monday night’s
EC meeting. Plans are underway
to decorate all of the University
Center. Evans Dining Hall will
be the Emerald City. A parade
through downtown Lexington is
scheduled for Thursday night.

Dress is

 

Voting is scheduled for next
Thursday, Friday, and Monday
(Feb, 7, 8, and 11) on a pro-
posed constitutional amend-
ment. The amendment is as
follows:

To Article IV, add See. ¥ which
reads:

The Committee shall in no
case meet in Executive Session
ov in any other form of meet-
ing closed to the Student Body
for any reason whatsoever ex-
cept when it shall meet to con-
sider possible Honor violations,

 

The EC endorsed Brittin’s ideas
unanimously,

Brittin said that SAB was quite
pleased about the turnout for As
You Like It, and added that the
play lost about $500. The commit-
tee has a new treasurer, Bob
Wyckoff.

Student Body President Doug
Schwartz announced formation

of subcommittees to delve into
the Fine Arts problems. The
committees are: 1) Alumni
Article (to get an article in the
Alumni magazine) — co-chair-
men: Dr. Stewart and Doug
Thomas; Actual Building Plans
(to draw up and study plans
for a new facility) chairman:
0. K. Barnes; Student Demon-

stration of Need To Alumni (to
inform alumni of the need for
a new structure): chairman Pete
Cimino; Art Project for May
Trustees Tour (to make ar-
rangements for the trustees’
visit in May) co-chairmen: Dr.
Doyon and Dr, Stewart; and
Independent Study by Outside
(Continued on page 8)

Chinese studies forum scheduled Feb. 5

By HERB RUBENSTEIN

The Student Curriculum Com-
mittee will host a student-faculty
forum Tuesday that will intro-
duce the new Chinese Studies pro-
gram.

Dean William Webb Pusey,
program chairman, and several
other faculty members who will
participate in next year’s pro-
gram will explain the new areas
to be offered in Chinese history,
literature, religion, politics,
nomics, language, and art.

Currently, the Chinese Studies
program is looking into new
course possibilities and will use

eco:

this forum to evaluate student
interest in this area. The Chinese
Studies program is not completely
structured at present and Dean
Pusey and the faculty want stu-

dent suggestions so the course
offerings next vear will reflect
student interest at Washington
and Lee.

W&L received a $30,000 grant
from the Mary Reynolds Babcock
Foundation to support the de-
velopment of this Chinese Studies
program. The success of this pro-
gram now depends on student in-
terest and support, according to
Dean Pusey. The program offers

new courses and library resources
in addition to a foreign exchange
program with the Chung Chi Uni-
versity in Hong Kong. W&L cur-
rently offers spring term courses
abroad in Japan and Taiwan.
Dean Pusey has said that if stu-
dent interest is large enough, the
school may be able to offer a
major in Chinese or Far Eastern
studies in the near future.

Student interested in Chinese
Studies may contact Dean Pusey,
duPont Hall, and attend the
Chinese Studies Form-Tuesday at
7:30 p.m. in Room 113 of the Uni-
versity Center.
THE RING-TUM PHI

 

Thursday, January 31, 1974

 

UTLOOK and REVIEW

On the upcoming referendum

Next Thursday, Friday and Monday, an amendment to the Student
Body Constitution pertaining to closed body Executive Committee
sessions will come up for a vote in a referendum.

The proposal would limit closed EC session to the discussion of
possible honor violations. The EC meeting would have to remain
open on discussion of any other matters.

While we are certain the EC has called closed sessions for what
it feels are appropriate circumstances, the amendment is not a
trivial one. Government, no matter how powerless it seems to be,
can work wonders when its decisions are made behind closed doors,
and our student government is no exception.

We have already seen changes made by the EC in the honor
system trial procedure without student input, changes which do not
necessarily prove to be in the best interests of the individual student
at Washington and Lee. There can be no student input from sources
outside the EC if that body’s doors are closed during the discussion
of any matters of interest to the entire student body.

The proposed amendment would deny the EC the power to discuss
and rule on changes affecting the students as a whole. Only cases in-
volving individual students would be discussed if the amendent

passes.

The proposed amendment is simple. It’s a matter of the student
body’s right to know. Vote for it.
—P.J.L.

A proposed curriculum survey

The Student Curriculum Committee, after its rather unsuccessful
curriculum survey last fall, is ready to try again.

The committee has proposed to take another student survey on
various courses, this one scheduled for Feb. 20 and 21. This second
survey has the potential of much greater success than that of last fall.

The committee has proposed that surveys be distributed in class
on those days, that the professors take five minutes off from class
time to distribute the surveys. The students would answer the
relatively short surveys in that five minutes, voicing their opinions
on just one fall term course each.

There are four evaluative (e.g. excellent to poor) questions on the
proposed survey and one short answer question designed to rate the
course and point out strengths and weaknesses.

The idea is to accumulate opinions about fall term courses as an
aid particularly to incoming freshmen. In addition, such a survey has
the potential of aiding upperclassmen looking for distribution fullfill-
ment or looking to take courses in a new department, A survey of
fall term courses is being taken now simply because students have
fully completed the course, final exam and all.

The idea behind the proposed survey and the proposed method
of running the survey are both excellent. A guide to first term courses
can be useful if the survey is comprehensive and the survey could
be comprehensive if it is given during class time. Both should earn
the proposed survey student and faculty support.

We do, however, question the questions, as it were. The questions,
as now proposed, ask how intellectually challenging the course was,
how the quality of instruction was, how the course overall was in
both quality and difficulty, and what the positive and negative aspects
of the course were. The short answer question also asks for sugges-
tions for improvement.

We realize that five minutes is a short period of time in which
to solicit comprehensive answers about a course. We do, however, feel
the questions, as currently proposed, are very general, perhaps too
general for the purpose of the survey.

For instance, consider the average answers to the survey on a
hypothetical course: the course was fairly intellectually challenging,
the quality of instruction was fair, the quality of the course was fair,
and, in terms of difficulty, the course was moderate. And, in the
short answer section, answers range from “it was great” to “it was
the worst course I’ve ever taken here.” Somehow those evaluations
wouldn’t tell too much about the course.

Unfortunately, under the proposed survey, there would probably
be much more than a handful of courses which would be evaluated
as such, And nothing useful is obtained from the survey.

We suggest to the University Council, which will hopefully view
the proposed survey today, and to the faculty, which will consider the
proposal Monday, that they consider changes to the proposed survey.
The idea is a good one, but the physical structure of the idea, if
allowed to be administered unchanged, may defeat the purpose of
the survey itself.

—P.J.L.

Suicide letter reply
Sir:

This is in response to last
week’s letter, “Suicide and W&L”
and is directed to the writer of
the letter and the persons he
represents,

It is a tragic thing for some-
one to take his life, because there
is meaning to life to those who
seek it.

The concern that this person
and others are looking for can
be found among those who know
how to and do express love and
concern to these lonely persons.
I am talking about true believers
in God. They will go out of their
way to help people undestand.

If vou are looking for this kind

ATTERS TQ THE GUL

 

of concern, then talk to these
people. You might try going to
one of the churches in town an
meeting some people who care
about you. If you are somewhat
shy toward a big church, there
is a smaller church on Houston
Street with usually about 10 or
15 persons, all very friendly anc
warm.

But if you don’t care for the
idea of going to church, there are
many persons here who can he‘p
you, men like Floyd Lewis, Dr.
Sprunt, Coach Canfield, David
Lytle, Mike Jarboe, Bowman Wil-
liams, Paul Cavaliere, David
Hunter, Coach McHenry, Jim
Hornor, and myself, We will mee:
you a little more than halfway
if you’l] meet us.

Stephen Hand, 77

   

Ask Traveller

A Preview of Spring Course Offerings.

—English 400: Hygienic Grammar. A forum on correct word usage
conducted with a healthy contempt for the student. Topics covered
include: the subjunctive as a cavity fighter of the future; why
student nurses resent being treated as direct objects by singie
scholars; the case for washing one’s hands after dangling a
participle; 10 easy ways to embarrass a gerund in public.

—Music 006: A review of Medieval music from its birth in Italy to
its gall bladder operation in Buffalo, New York, with primary focus
on Johann Klutz (1472-1555) who was considered frygian at the
time of his divorce from his wife, Nadine. Attention also given
to period instruments, especially the bass viol which is thought
to have been originally used as a Coleman lantern during the Dark
Ages.

—Journalism 750: Film-making. (Prerequisite: junior standing it
there aren’t enough chairs to go around.) Students will practice
the fundamentals of splicing, cutting, dubbing film, and breaking
into Reid Hall after hours. Intensive studying of the psychological
impact of modern movies, and why buttered popcorn stains theatre
upholstery during matinees.

—History 2.75: A critical survey of the United States’ lesser-known
presidents, including John Tyler, Franklin Pierce, and Manny
Jiminez before he was placed on waivers by Minnesota. Some valid
questions raised: did Martin Van Buren talk with his mouth full
at White House dinners; if Millard Fillmore didn’t like his middle
name, why didn’t he get it legally changed instead of sulking; and
why does the mention of Chester Arthur get laughs at New Years’
parties? The course wil] culminate in a trip to the National Archives
to catalogue Warren Harding’s papers and then stuff a pheasant
with them.

—Religion 344: Playing the Spiritual Fence. Visions and miracles
discussed, along with getting the punch line right when telling a
parable. The questions are asked: should a forewarding address be
left if there is an afterlife; does God exist and, if so, does He take
cream or sugar; has the Archbishop really cornered the Douglas
Fir market in Canada; and should Lazarus have sent a thank you
note or a candygram?

THE RING-TUM PHI

The Ring-tum Phi is published on Thursdays during the college year.
It is printed by the Journalism Laboratory Press, Washington and Lee
University. The mailing address is Box 899, Lexington, Virginia 24450.
Entered as second class matter September 29, 1946, at the Post Office.
Lexington, Virginia 24450, under the act of March 3, 1879. Subscription
rates: $6.00 for the school year, $3.00 for the semester.

PAUL J. LANCASTER ANDREW J. A. CHRISS
Editor-in-chief Business Manager

2, Gat Meeve?
i a ee ee Bill Austin
.. Bill Robinson

ee
Sports Editor .
FPROUNVODNY BGO? 8 Sei GS

re ce C8 ai ae Rome Scott
Ce i i ae Sek ee es eee .David Lee
FPWR re Be SS Dave Finnell, John Killpack, Chuck Alt

Contributors ............ Tim Moore, Steve Yevich, Tom Rittenburg,
Bill Flesher, Paul Morella, W. Patrick Hinely, John Zamoiski
     

Thursday, January 31, 1974

oben

losided but

By ROME SCOTT

It was one of those beer-drinking days in summer when lounging
hy the pool and fanning yourself feels so good (watching those
»vikinis wiggle by, wishing one would stop).

The short, funny-looking, red-headed Englishman looked around
anxiously and repeated for the thousandth time, “They'll be right
lown.”

I nodded for the thousandth time and thought to myself, “How
the hell am I going to conduct an interview with people who speak
Dutch or Netherlandish or whatever.”

Somebody shouted from the balcony of the Holiday Inn, ers
‘s on his way and Jan’ll be down in a minute.”

Focus, some mouthful to chew and I didn’t even know how to
»ronouce their names—Thijs Van Leer, Jan Akkerman, Bert Ruiter
and Pierre Van Der Linden (no doubt about it—I’d found the right
motel).

The group from Holland was set to play a show that night, a
show I was slated to review, and somebody connected with them
‘n New York had called to tell me she was sure I wanted to talk
to them. So here I was.

Up until their performance I had heard nothing Focus had done
except the group’s top 40 releases but when I decided to do the
interview I put together some questions anyway.

First I asked the typical, dumb question nearly every American
asks a foreigner, “How do you like America?” and Van Leer smiled
(I was afraid the question might be too difficult for him to under-
stand, him being from Holland and all) and said “How the hell
should I know? All I’ve seen is the inside of hotel rooms and back-
stage dressing rooms.”

(The dude’s English was better than mine! I decided to ask him
something worthwhile—‘How do you pronounce your first name?”)

All kidding aside, Van Leer did have some interesting things
to say.

Focus is built around Jan Akkerman, lead guitar, and Van Leer,
organ and vocals. They have written most of their recent material
in motels or backstage on tour.

Their scheme for writing music is to take a primary melody and
build from it a complex sounding simplicity based in jazz-textured
rock.

Their intention is to start slow and outline the context of the
‘music so that the rest of the song can be carefully improvised to a
climactic frenzy.

Focus opened many of its numbers with a soft, interwoven
guitar-organ duet and moved through several beat changes adding
bass and drums as they went.

Classically-oriented melody lines carried by the organ or guitar
were set apart from a solid rhythmic background effecting a dramatic
difference in musical concepts.

The band’s music was a pleasant surprise of sincere and valid
musicianship built on a superior concept resulting in a progressive
view of musical intent (in other words, I was impressed).

Where do they go from here, I wondered. Then I remembered
what Akkerman had told me.

“We've got a castle rented in Holland and that’s where we're
going when this is over. Then we can get down to serious work.”

(A castle? What a life! But what is serious work?)

 

Spring term course offers library

Plans are now being made for ment for the Humanities.

a spring term course, Interdepart- For the first three weeks of
mental 190: Bibliographical Re- the spring term the class will
sources, part of the University’s meet at the “E” hour on Tues-
five-vear program designed to days and Thursdays, receiving

help students and faculty in the
effective use of W&L’s library re-
sources.

The course, a one-credit elec-
tive, is particularly helpful to
students who plan to do graduate
study, but is of immediate benefit
to any undergraduate who wishes
to do independent research or to
become more familiar with li-
brary materials, according to Dr.
Ss. M. B. Coulling, one of the
course instructors.

It will be conducted in accord-
ance with a $50,000 matching
grant awarded three years ago
by the Council on Library Re-
sourees and the National Endow-

general instruction from the refer-
ence librarians. During the sec-
ond half of the term the class
will be divided into groups ac-
cording to major, each group be-
ing instructed by a professor from
the appropriate subject area.
Since a faculty adviser must be
engaged to supervise the student’s
work in his major, special plan-
ning for the course is necessary
well in advance of the spring
term. Therefore any student in-
terested in the course should dur-
ing the next two weeks, at the
latest, get in touch with Professor
Coulling, faculty coordinator of
the program, or a member of the

THE RING-TUM PHI

Page 3

 

Record review

Herbie Hancock lives

By W. PATRICK HINELY
Headhunters
Herbie Hancock
Columbia KC 32731
Spectrum
Billy Cobham
Atlantic SD 7268

Herbie Hancock is probably one
of the most prolific recording
artists around these days. He's
played on everybody’s albums,
and a lot of people have played
on his, too.

For Headhunters he is with his
standard horn man, Bennie
Maupin, bassist Paul Jackson,
who has also rocked around San
Francisco with the likes of
Azteca, and two drummer/percus-
sionists, Harvey Mason and Bill
Summers.

Hancock, as usual, is in top
form on keyboards. He does a lot
of work with synthesizers, too,
using them like keyboards most
of the time, but his most interest-
ing application of the Arp is to
simulate strings. There are no
strings on the album, but he
puts in the same sound at points,
nicely placed for the most part.
The only place they get a little
soupy is on the last cut, “Vein
Melter,” which is the sole piece
on this album which tends _ to-
ward muzak.

Bennie Maupin’s sax and sax-
ello come out nicely all around,
especially on the opening cut
“Chameleon,” a 15 minute jam.
“Watermelon Man,” an old Han-
cock hit, gets a nice new rendi-
tion to close out side 1. “Sly,”
on side 2, is a 10-minute wander-
ing through futuristic electronic

playgrounds.

Definitely an album to. get
down with. Everybody should
like this one, no matter what

shape your head’s in. It’s music
that smiles.
a at mM

Billy Cobham’s main claim to

library staff.

This is the third vear that the
course has been offered. To date
students in French, Spanish, Ger-
man, economics, English, history
and politics have been enrolled in
the course. Under the terms of
the grant any department in the
humanities and social sciences is
eligible for participation.

Dr. Edwin Craun of the Eng-
lish departments organized his
section into a nine-man seminar
last yvear. By pooling their re-
sources, the students were able
to compile a_ standard _biblio-
graphy now used by the English
department. At the end of the
course they compiled a list of the
best source materials they had
found and drew up a selected
bibliographies on their topics.

Interdepartmental 190 has been

fame seems to be his work with
John McLaughlin and the Maha-
vishnu Orchestra, a band for
whom he supplied all the atomic-
solar kind of rhythmic base they
needed, Alas, those days are gone
and he has departed to make his
own music, which will probably
prove to be a greater loss to the

Mahavishnu Orchestra than to
Cobham.
Cobham has played around

with everyone from Miles Davis
to Deodato, as well as piloting
a rock-jazz band called Dreams a
few years back, which is un-
fortunately no longer available
since the albums (on Columbia)
didn’t sell enough to keep them
in print.

Spectrum is Cobham’s first solo
album, and portentious one at
that. The music is based around
Cobham’s drumming and the key:
boards of Jan Hammer, who also
used to play in the Mahavishnu
Orchestra. Ray Barretto makes 2
nice contribution on conga, and
guitarists John Tropea (from
Deodato’s band) and Tom Bolin
(from the James gang) put in
some nice licks, too. On horns,
Joe Farrell and Jimmy Owens do
their usual proficient and exce!-
lent, though seldom innovative
work. Ron Carter and Lee Sklar
play bass, Carter being the better
of the two by far.

The songs are a mixed bag,
going from energetic space-jazz to
funky up-beat but relaxed cruis-
ing music. At points, it gets as
frenetic as McLaughlin, but the
whole aura of the album is less
urgent, though not so much as
to be laid back. Cobham’s work
is definitely straight ahead—he’s
just not hurrying about getting
spiritual. The whole feeling of
the album is that the players had
a lot of fun making it, and I
find it good for listening to in
any situation except trying to go
to sleep.

research

found by students to be useful as
preparation for work on honor
theses or for the type of work
encountered in law school,

NOTICE

The University Council will
meet this afternoon at 4:30 p.m.
in the Student Executive Com-
mittee Room in the University
Center.

The UC will discuss continua-
tion of the discussion of certain
aspects of the Preliminary Re-
port of the Ad Hoc Committee
on Faculty Responsibility for
Student Conduct and Discipline,
and student representation on the
University Council. Also, at the

request of the Student Body
Executive Committee, the sub-

ject of University health services
may be discussed,
Page 4

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

Editor’s note: This is the first
in a series of articles on Wash-
ington and Lee student hous-
ing, focusing this week on vari-
ous aspects of the overall hous-
ing program. In_ following
weeks, we will discuss married
student housing and on the
Woods Creek complex currently
under construction.

By TOM RITTENBURG

In an attempt to centralize all
incoming freshmen next year, the
university will be closing the
eastern half of Davis Dorm to
upperclassmen next September.

That part of the dorm will be
filled by freshmen who in previ-
ous years would have been placed
in off-campus university housing.
Thus the freshmen will all be
centralized in one area by the
move.

Upperclassmen will continue to
occupy the western, or left, side
of the dormitory.

Manwhile, Baker Dorm, that
bastion of dorm-ridden law stu-
dents, will be opened to a limited
number of upperclassmen. Most
likely, one section of the dorm
will be cordoned off for the law
students to insure the solitude
necessary for the graduate stu-
dents’ relentless pursuit of the
law.

Nelson House will be closed
down as student residence, and
Lee House II will graduate from
freshmen to upperclass residence.

Frank Parsons, Assistant to the
President, lists two reasons for
the shifting around of dorms and
students. He says in the past,
the increasing number of enter-
ing freshmen has put a strain on
housing. About 20 freshmen have
had to live in non-dormitory (Lee
House II) housing due to the
shortage of dorms available. The
university is placing these excess
freshmen in Davis to provide uni-
form dormitory housing to all
freshmen and to centrally locate
all the first year men.

Parsons also says dorm assign-
ment changes are being made be-
cause of the expected completion
of the Woods Creek apartments
by September, which will house
178 upperclassmen and law stu-
dents. No formal applications for
the apartments are being accept-
ed as of yet, and rent for the
suites will run between $650 and
$750 per student.

Those students wishing to
move into or remain in present
dormitory housing will be facing
a $100 to $125 increase in rent
next year, an increase attributed
by the administration to the ris-

Reach-Out offers

Editor’s note: This is the first
in a series of articles by re-
porter Darryl Carlton exploring
counseling and intra-personal
activities on and off campus.
‘This article describes the Reach-
Out program.

By DARRYL CARLTON

Among the organizations in the
community that are willing to
help students in need as well as
towns people is a resource that
is used less often than it could
be. This. is Reach-Out, Lexing-
ton’s counseling and referal serv-
ice that was founded three years
ago.

Reach-Out was originally form-
ed by a group of students and
community volunteers who were
concerned about the drug prob-
lem, which in the spring of 1970,

seemed to be more and more
evident.
When it was discovered that

this was more apparent than real,
Reach-Out branched out into a
three-point program: counseling
and referral for those with low-
income, drug and alcohol prob-
lems, and emotional problems.
Needless to say, these areas often
overlap.

Reach-Out is staffed entirely
from volunteers. In its first year
of operation, over fifty percent
of the volunteers were W&L stu-
dents. At that time, it remained
open 24 hours a day, but after a
vear it discovered that this was
not warranted by the amount of
time it was being used as a
counseling service. The Reach-Out

building on Main Street is now
open from 10 a.m. to 10 p.m. on
weekdays, from 2-10 on Satur-
days, 6-10 on Sundays. However,
there is an answering service
open for telephone calls 24 hours
a day, seven days a week, in
which an opportunity is present-
ed to leave a message or call one
of three emergency numbers for
immediate assistance if necessary.

Reach-Out, according to its
president, the Rev. Michael
Dwinnel, functions as a rap cen-
ter. People can come to the
building at 323 N. Main Street

or call 463-7301.

Rev. Dwinnell explained that
teach-Out uses non-judgmental
listening and community re-

sources to show people possible
alternatives to situations or feel-
ings they feel are causing them
difficulty, either emotionally or
financially.

 

TRY THE AVON WAY

to a profitable business of
your own during hours you
choose. It’s easy to get start-
ed. Call:

Linda Lickliter
Call Collect
703-885° 5980

 

Thursday, January 31, 1974

W&L working to update student housing

 

A construction worker levels out the hillside near Woods Creek

   

5
. w

as

part of site preparation for the student apartment complex to be

completed by this fall.

ing cost of living and inflation.
The university has _ received
many requests calling for W&L
to subsidize the housing. Parsons
says the university would not do
so. Instead, according to Parsons,

—Photo by Robinson

money which could be used for
subsidizing student housing will
instead be directed to subsidizing
the educational system at W&L.

(Next week: Married student
housing.)

elp for students

Reach-Out staffers are trained
in an intensive 8-day program
which gives them the basis for
their counseling and information
stance. This training is carried
out by experienced staffers, plus
professionals and __ para-profes-
sionals from the area.

Reach-Out asks for a commit-
ment of at least four hours a
week from its volunteers. Vari-
ous duties while on “shift” in-

clude finding transportation f
low-income families when neces-
sary, referring problem pregnancy
cases to trained counselors and
identifying drugs.

Reach-Out now has three W&lL
students working on the staff,
and encourages others to join its
training cycle and become a part
of the staff. Will Siegler, one of
these students, commented,

(Continued on page 8)

 

SENIOR

 

INFORMAL
PORTRAITS
Prints Available

Monday Evenings 8-9

Thru March 18

Student Center 200

THE CALYX

 

 
Thursday,

1974

January 31,

THE RING-TUM PHI

Page 5

 

National landmarks or eyesores?
Carnal knowledge

By LEIGH CHAPPEL

“They oinked at me!” Needless
to sav, Leigh Chappel, your basic
coed, Was rather shocked by this
reception at her first class.

However, things began to look
up. “When Joe College asked me
today why I came to W&L and
| answered for the 87th time that
it wasn’t necessarily my_ social
life, I think he might have be-
lieved me!”

What about these “national
landmarks?” If they didn’t come
for their social life, why did they
come?

On an exchange from a wo-
nen’s college a coed is frequently
asked the question, “Have your
attitudes toward the boys chang-
ed now that vou are placed in
an academic atmosphere with
them rather than the weekend,
party atmosphere?” The answer
is, “SGe-

Perhaps a fundamental reason
that coeds come to an all-male
university is to live in a more
natura] atmosphere where males
can be taken down from the
pedestal they are placed on from
the perspective of a women’s col-
lege. Its nice to know that the
same males who “gator’ also

’

function as students in an intel-
lectual atmosphere. Besides gain-
ing a new outlook on the male
way of life, coeds also gain re-
spect for their male peers.

The transition from a women’s
college to a male university is
not without surprises. At one
point Leigh Chappel was accost-
ed in the Co-op and accused of
“being a distraction in the library”

merely because she was there.
The suggestion was_ offered,

“Why not study in the stacks?”

With this in mind, if you come
across a pair of feet staring at
vou from within the periodicals,
don’t be distracted. It’s only Leigh
Chappel, the same girl who was
asked at a fraternity party last
Friday night, “I’ve never dated
a coed; why did you come?
What’s it like walking to class?
Do you eat meals in Lexington?
Do vou have a tendency to breath
oxygen as regular girls do?”

So the next time you see
Leigh Chappel walking, talking,
breathing, eating, and even study-
ing who knows where, why don’t
you declare her a national land-
mark and treat her with the
respect you would Lee Chapel?

 

Theodore E.

Thornton, Sr.

Richmond personnel director set
as ‘Black Culture’ Smith lecturer

By STEVE YEVICH

Virginia Union University Choir
vill perform at W&L in conjuc-
tion with Black Culture Week.
The concert will be at 8 p.m. in
Lee Chapel next Tuesday. Black
Culture Week is Sunday through
Friday.

Wednesday at 8 p.m., Theodore
“hornton, director of personnel

for Richmond, will speak in Lee
Chapel. He will relate some of
his experiences in his current
post as they relate to blacks.
(His job is to enforce federal
guidelines in city hiring  prac-
tices.) After his talk there will
be a question and answer session.

The VUU Choir travels exten-

(Continued on page 8)

Porcine prattle

By M. C. PiG

“She sat next to me! Of all the
gall. She could have at least sat
in the back of the classroom.”

M. S. Pig, your basic male
chauvinist pig, was very much
humiliated by the forwardness of
this brazzen hussy. In retaliation
he “oinked” at her.

However, things began to go
from bad to worse. “When Leigh
Chappel asked me today if I felt
threantened by her presence at
W&L,” I merely replied, being
too much of a stud and gentle-
man to say more, that I found her
pollution of our pure environ-
ment exceptionally tedious. As
usual, she was not to be put off
and insisted that I have a date
with her this weekend to discuss
the matter in depth, or in as much
depth as I could offer her.”

The existence of coeds on the
campus of General Lee’s college
is to be considered nothing less
thadn pure plasphemy. It only
confirms the realistic, ie. nega-
tive, attitude of the opposite sex
which we have so long enjoyed
here in such blessed isolation.

Perhaps if the gardeners of
this dread creeping feminism
which treatens to choke our very
roots sincerely want to gain the
respect of the male sex they
could find the means of doing so
by respecting our privacy. Alas,
they have already invaded and
their numbers are_ increasing
periodically. There are several
ways, however, in which these
amazons may still redeem them-
selves.

The coeds might become the
good fairies of the campus. They
could relieve the highly efficient

male janitorial squad by taking
on their duties in the freshman
dormitories. If they want to prove
their talents they could do what
they are best at—making beds,
knitting sweaters and mufflers,
and giving massages. Also, an in-
terested pre-med student might
drill them into an able group of
helpers for Nurse Agnor.

Once I asked Leigh Chappe! if
she wanted a drink when I saw
her standing alone at a fraternity
party. Her sweet lady-like reply
was, “What? Don’t you think I
have enough strength and cour-
age to get myself a drink if I
want one? You’re as bad as my
date. That ‘turkey’ had the nerve
to open my car door when we
got here so I’m letting myself
get snaked. Want to play?”

Leigh still wanted to play when
the date was over. One night she
found me in the library and
started cooing and petting ime.
I won’t repeat her colorful reply
when I later told her that she
was “being a distraction in the
library.”

All of us can help to see our
way through this hard time. If
vou have a chance, sit an amazon
down and tell her about Adam’s
rib. And remember, they can
usually be controlled as they are
almost always willing to “stoop
to be conquered.”

NOTEC EH
The W&L Glee Club and Brass
Ensemble will join the Mary
Baldwin College Choir in the pre-
sentation of Norman Dello Joio’s
“Mass,” Friday at 8 p.m. In Lee
Chapel.

FOR YOUR EXTRA PIECES OF FURNITURE

Varner & Pole

115 Main St. —

Lexington, Va.

 

4

 

 

 

STUDENTS!

Make this your headquarters for Good Food

and Service

We have meal tickets at savings to you

SOUTHERN INN

)

 

 
Jie oe e
£age 6

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

Thursday,

January 31,

1974

W&L swimmers lose to Duke, 76-37,
face William and Mary here Friday

Last Saturday afternoon, Wash-
ington and Lee’s swimming Gen-
evals suffered a lopsided defeat,
76-37, at the hands of the power-
ful Duke University Blue Devils.
rhe loss dropped the
dual meet record to
and three losses.

Coach Bill Stearns characteriz-
ed the contest as a “fun meet
that gave our team the opportun-

Generals
five wins

itv to swim against some good
competition in preparation for
William and Mary and the state

meet.”

Despite the loss there were
some very bright spots for the
Generals. Captain Will Brother-
ton, a junior from Chariesion,
W.Va., took a first in the gruel-

ling 200 vd. fly.

Freshman Porter McNeil from

Jacksonville, Fla, breezed
through the 1000 yd. freestyle, en
route to breaking the school rec-
ord with a time of 10:59.2.

Bill Tiers, a sophomore from
Vero Beach, Fla., had previously
held the record, eclipsing the old
record in last year’s state meet
and breaking his own record set
last week at Richmond. In the
meet with Duke, he took a sec-

Wrestling team hits 5-4 mark;
defeats Davidson College, 27-16

This past Saturday at VMI, the
wrestling Generals took on three
foes, including the host Keydets.
After opening with a 20-16 de-
feat at the hands of the Keydets,
W&L’s. group came back to

trounce Davidson College, 27-16.

Then, against a University of
North Carolina squad that had
easily taken care of VMI and

scores of 33-0 and
respectively), the Generals

Davidson (by
29-5,

Phi-WLUR match set for Feb. 2;

rivatly’s record stands at 1-1-0

The powerful Ring-tum Five
Will travel to Doremus Gym
Saturday to tackle the _ host

WLUR “Bottom 10” in a basket-
ball game at 7 p.m.

The game precedes _ the
regularly-scheduled varsity game
against Bowie State at 8 p.m.

At press time, the two media
roundball squads were scheduled
to play either regular 10 minute
halves or 12 minute halves run-
ning time.

The contest renews a Classic
series between the two squads,
dating back to the early 1970's.
The Ring-tum Five hold a decisive
edge in the series, which stands
at 1-1-0.

The Five are coming off a big
win from last year’s contest, in

 

East Lexington
Grocery

Beer — Ice — Gas
Party Supplies — Snacks

Open 7 days a week
ABC No, 2078—8 a.m.-10 p.m.
SHOP FOR SUNDAY
EVENING DINNER
We Sell & Deliver Kegs

 

 

 

which they humiliated the Bot-
tom 10, 72-72. (The Five were
given the win based on total rid-
ing time.)

WLUR won the initial contest
in 1972, by sheer luck.

The Ring-tum Five has been
hurt with the loss of six-year
letterman Bill “what’s an English
major doing writing sports?”
Austin, who is listed as a doubt-
ful starter after a sinister force
injured him.

3ut the Five are confident.
With a starting line-up of 67”,
6’8’,’ 69”, 610” and 4’3”, the print
media men are anticipating
trouble under the boards, but they
feel the quickness of a five-guard
offense will prevail.

Paul’s Bike Shop

11 N. New St., Staunton
Phone 886-1310
PAUL Now Accepting All
BIKE REPAIRS at
Sears’ Lexington Store

Pick-Up Every Wednesday
Returned On Wednesday.
Also New 10 Speeds Batavus
Bikes For Sale.

Lee eee eee ONT ei te

: The First National Bank :

7 of Lexington :
é has special checking accounts for students %

=
Seeteofooteteteeotestefeleotntentete osteo oeotertesteoeonterteoertofedooeofntentooofntertoofstertoobobofestetertene

fared quite successfully in the
lower weight classifications.

Decisions gained by Lee Keck
(118) and Don Overdorff (126)
staked the team to a 7-0 lead.
However, UNC’s Byman pinned
Jim Crytzer (142), and the Tar
Heels’ 190-pounder, Hoffman,
pinned David Knack. The 12-point
boon was sufficient to give the
powerful North Carolina team a
final 21-17 advantage. As a result,
W&L’s season mat-mark slipped
to five wins and four defeats.

(See stats on page 8)

Dry Cleaning

Linen Service

WE DELIVER

Storage & Free Moth Proofing

ond to McNeil in the 1000, with
his fastest time ever, 11:02.5. Tiers
Sisa= 400K & first in the 606

freestyle.

Tad Van Leer, from Glen Ridge,
N.J., provided another boost for
the Generals. The freshman, who
remained unbeaten this year in
the 50 vd. freestyle, took the
event at Duke with a time of
22.7. He also took a third in the
100 yd. freestvle. Van Leer, who
hopes to gain a birth at the Col-
lege Nationals, is aiming at the
long standing records of Bill
Brumbach in both the 50 and 100
yd, freestvle events.

The General’s will meet state
rival William and Mary this Fri-

day night at Doremus Pool, for
their final dual meet of the sea:
son.

In other swimming notes, the
Washington and Lee J.V. swim
team trounced Madison College
last Wednesday. The score was
61-51.

Solid performances were given
by freshmen David Johnston, who
scored firsts in the medley relay
and the 200 yd. back, Bill Rogers
who swept the 50 yd. free and the
200 breaststroke, and by Jim New-
ton who anchored the winning
medley relay and took a first in
the individual medley.

UNIVERSITY
CLEANERS

Reliable Service In

Shirts Laundered
Clothing Repair

463-3622

 

$

121 W. Nelson

$

 

NEED EXTRA CASH

STUDENT LOANS AVAILABLE
NO AGE RESTRICTION

PEOPLES Finance Service

OF LEXINGTON

$

Phone 463-3176

 

$

 
Thursday, January 31, 1974

Basketball team loses 3

By BILL AUSTIN &
BILL FLESHER
scores:

W&L 63—Madison 76

W&L 68—Roanoke 91

W&L 73—Randolph-Macon 81

Entering the most treacherous
portion of its schedule, the Wash-
ington and Lee University basket-
ball team found out once more
what it is to lose.

In this past week, the first
two contests were not close, the
leads not held and then relin-
guished, Rather, these were games

that found W&L’s current edi-
tion outsized, outgunned. They

pointedly demonstrated the seri-
ousness of the of center
Norm Kristoff and his board
strength. Yet, against Randolph-
Macon, the Generals put forth a
remarkable effort, nearly knock-
ing off the state’s winningest
team.

loss

The Madison affair, played in
Harrisonburg before the search-
ing cameras of UHF channel 51,
had the Generals down from the
yutset. To be sure, the game was
one of the team’s lesser achieve-
ments of the season, particularly
the first-half showing. In it, W&L
shooters canned but 9 of 33 field
goal attempts, for an icy 27.2%.
In contrast, Madison got good
scoring efforts from freshmen
Sherman Dillard and John Cad-
man to move to a 35-27 half-time
bulge.

The margin increased in the
final period, reaching 20 points
at one time, before Jeff Baum
entered the contest to spark a
W&L come-back. The 6’3” sopho-
more collected 8 points, and pull-
ed the Generals within 10 with
four minutes remaining. How-
ever, two baskets by Madison’s
Joe Frve cooled the frantic bid.

 

Hamric and Sheridan
JEWELERS
Watch and Jewelry Repair
Hand Engraving & Class Rings
463-2022

 

 

 
   
 
  
 
  
 
   

For

# KEYDET-GHNVERAL
hestaurant and Motel

Truly One of the South’s Finest
Superb Dining and

Reservations Phone 463-2143

Complete Facilities for
.. Banquets, Weddings & Receptions
A, One Mile West of Lexington on U.S. 60

The 76-63 triumph for Madison
was led by Dillard’s 20 points and
Cadman’s 12. Freshman Van
Snowden and sophomore Wilbert
Mills collected 10 points apiece.

Skip Lichtfuss led the Generals
with 17 points. Three players, Bo
Williams, Guy Kerr, and Paul
Maloney, picked up nine each.
In the defeat, W&L retrieved but
30 rebounds as a team, compared
to 47 for Madison. Team shoot-
ing improved a little in the final
stanza, but the 32% field goal

mark was a seasonal low for the §

squad.
Saturday night’s return’ to
Doremus was a needed respite at

home. Or was it? Judging from %

the noise of the attending crowd,
the Generals were performing in
an alien setting. It sems that the
Roanoke College Maroons, surly,
confident and, incidentally,
fourteenth best college division
team in the land, invaded Lex-
ington with a bit of a following.

Indeed, a highly organized herd
of the Roanoke faithful trouped,
smug-faced, into fair Doremus,
equipped with cheer leaders and
snarling voices. They were not
like the Charlottesville crowd
that earlier flocked south to see
their Cavaliers play: those cock-
tail-circuit Washoos who _pleas-
antly exhorted their big-boys to
victory.

No, these were foot-stomping,
vociferous patrons of a dearly
loved team, ready to dispute every
call, to verbally denounce every
Wé&L player. Even the W&L
“Swing” seemed somewhat intimi-
dated by the gathering.

The intruders got their wish.
They saw Roanoke move out to
an early lead, despite General
efforts to slow things down and
Guy Kerr’s brilliant first-half per-
formance. Kerr poured in 10 of
the team’s first 12 points, 14 of
its half-time total of 26.

Nonetheless, the Maroons’ pun-
ishing brand of run and_ shoot
and shove basketball took its toll
on the smaller Generals. Roa-
noke’s formidable front line of
66” leader garnered numerous

(Continued on page 8)

 
 

Picturesque Atmosphere.
Serving Food in the ,
Fine Tradition of Virginia.

 

  

 

THE RING-TUM PHI

straight

 

ey

the

Skip Lichtfuss tries for two against Roanoke’s Jay Piccola in Satur:
day’s loss to Roanoke. The nationally-ranked Maroons won the
contest, 91-68.

—Photo by Lee Eagen

 
  

 
 
    

 

Wendell’s —
Barber Shop —

OPEN 9-6

Opening Soon

 

The
Kaleidscope
Arts and Crats Shop
11 South Jefferson Se.

9 South Jefferson

 

Closed Wednesday

 

Washington and Lee University

Bookstore

Books for
Black Culture
Week

SOCSOSSSSSCSSSECSSESCS  SSCSSCSSCSCSSCESCECSCSECCCEECESESES
Page 8 THE RING-TUM PHI

UPCOMING SAB FILMS

 

EC approves Fancy Dress
theme, ‘‘Land of Oz’;

art committees named
(Continued from page 1)

Experts (to get an unprejudiced

report) chairperson: Ms, Pam

Simpson. Students may join the
subcommittees,

David Graham reported for the
Library Committee. He said Mc-
Cormick Library is losing 1,000
books a year at an average cost
of $13.50 a book. A checker is
being considered for the library,
but concern’ was expressed that
the cost and possible detrimental
effect on the Honor System could
outweigh any benefits gained. A
new statement is being drawn up
about the library and the Honor
System.

Mike Guroian and Bill Wallace
reported for the Athletic Com-
mittee. They stated that there was
a need for more playing fields
and better upkeep of some Dore-
mus facilities. Artificial turf and
lighting for night play are being
considered to alleviate overcrowd-
ing and to protect Wilson Field.

The EC encouraged any student
with complaints about the health
service to go to Dean John or

Feb. 12—
1-0 Fm.

The
Free,

Great MeGinty,
Feb. 13-14—Sons of the Desert
"| Big Business, 7 & 9 p.m...75.
Feb, 15-16—Million Dollar Legs,

and One A.M., 7 & 9. .75.

 

R/C Theatres
Regal Cinema Fare
in Lexington

State Theatre

12-14 W. Nelson St. 463-3424

NOW SHOWING
One Big Week

The Way We Were

Lyric Cinema

i305, Main St.

THRU SATURDAY

any EC member. Complaints
The Long Goodbye should be in writing.
SUN.-MON.TUES JAZZ. ENSEMBLE

Catch 22

form tonight at Southern Sem.

 

 

Live and study
in ROME

LOYOLA UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO
Rome Center of Liberal Arts

@ Classes taught in English
@ All academic credits transfer

@ 60 courses offered each semester:

ANTHROPOLOGY © CLASSICAL STUDIES © ENGLISH
& ITALIAN LIT. O FINE ARTS 0 HISTORY O ITALIAN
O PHILOSOPHY © POLITICAL SCIENCE © PSYSCHOL-
OGY O THEATRE 0 THEOLOGY

@ 350 schools represented over 10 years

@ Campus villa houses some 275 students

MANY STATE SCHOLARSHIPS TRANSFER

Application accepted now for 1974-75
@e200000906000009000908000000000008008908020908902008

LOYOLA UNIVERSITY OF CHICAGO
N= SHeridan Ra., Ghicage Ti, 68626

For Information Mail To:

Rome Center Office, 6525

aS =] Schoo!

.Ae%os”— rc lc lcd. C8 ee 8 ee a

 

W&L Jazz Ensemble will per-

 

 

Thursday,

January 31,

ms

1974

Richmond personnel director set
as ‘Black Culture’ Smith lecturer

(Continued from Page 5)

and has_ per-
Philadelphia
the Rich-

sively
formed
Academy

each year
with the
Orchestra,

mond Symphony, and other en-
sembles. The choir performs
musie ranging from ancient

through baroque to modern jazz
and gospel.

Odell Hobbs, director of the
choir, has won acclaim as con-
ductor of the Tuskegee Instritute
Choir and the Langston Univer-
sity Choir, as well as at VUU.
Presently he is working towards
his D.M.A. at Catholic University,
in addition to his duties at Vir-
ginia Union.

Thornton received his B.S. from

Reach Out program aids
students with problems

(Continued from page 4)
“There's no prerequisite of skill
or Knowledge of the community
to participate in Reach-Out’s pro-
gram. All you need is an open
mind, the ability to learn, and the
desire to help your neighbor.”

According to Rey. Dwinnell,

‘Reach-Out needs more volun-
teers, Students are especially
good because they may have
time in the morning and after-
noon when volunteers are badly
needed.” He explained that a
training cycle would begin
this week, starting with a
screening of perspective staff-
ers on Saturday, Feb, 2, “In-
terested students, as well as
others, should get an applica-
tion from Reach-Out so _ that
they can hand it in on or be-
fore this time” he explained.
An application can be picked up

at the Reach-Out building on 323
North Main St. It is also possible
to call for more information or
to express an interest in the pro-
gram. The telephone number is
463-7301.

Saint Paul’s College and his Mast-
ers from Virginia Commonwealth
University. Thornton also is vice
president of the Richmond Com
munity Action Program, which is
the city’s anti-poverty agency.

The speech in Lee Chapel has
been designated the Leslie G.
Smith Memorial Lecture, in honor
of the first black graduate of
W&L, who was killed in Wash-
ington in 1970, where he was a
lawyer for the Justice Depart-
metn.

There is a chance that Mr.
Thornton will meet with mem
bers of the Commerce Schoo! at

4 p.m. to discuss economic prin-
ciples as they relate to the job
market.

2

Roanoke smashes WG@L;
Generals now 5-10

(Continued from page 7)
offensive rebounds, leading to
second and third-chance shots.

The 43-26 margin at intermis-
sion was consistently maintained
in the final, as the Generals drew
no nearer than 73-57. Unfortun-
ately, Kerr became ill between
halves, and appeared only briefly
in the contest’s final moments.
\ll-American candidate Jay Pic-
olla, sweet-shooting forward who
colected 30 points and 10 re-
bounds for his night’s work, must
have been relieved. It was he who
unsuccessfully covered Kerr in
the opening period.

The final score of 91-68 match-
ed the point-spread rolled up by
Virginia. However, this game was
most memorable for the non-sotp
exhibition of brutish play. Truly,
the oft’ maligned officiating must
accept another blow. At times,
the proceedings got completely
out of hand. Picolla score his
points with both an_ excellent
shooting touch and with killer-
elbows. Necessarily General play-
ers made the 40-minute brawl a
two-way event.

Saturday’s wrestling results

WAL vs. VMI

118—Keck d. Wilson 6-0
126—Overdorff t. Latsha 5-5
134—Adelmann |]. to Stewart 0-7
142—Crytzer |]. to Aksomitas 0-4

150—Stieff d. Kohler 5-4
158—Goodman |. to Bradshaw 0-7
167—Ford pinned Putykula
177—Lewis l, 40 -Vizzi O1s

 

190—IKnack l. to Shaffer 1-15

Zarr 2-2

unl.—Schweizerhaf  t.

Davidson UNC
pinned Dosa! d. Smith
d. Jacobs d. Glasgow
pinned by Phar 1. to Starky
l, to Secandling pinned by Byman

5-0
d. Standling 3-1 I, to Carter 7-8
(Fink) d. Price d. Reinston 6-2
pinned Holloway d. Carter 7-5
d. Dorsey 2-0 t. Landstra 5-5

(Heldrich)

l, to Pureell pinned by Hoffman
0-11

Forfeited by =
Davidson

Wheeler 1-1

Travel

Youth Fares to Europe!

SEE LEXINGTON’S

Unlimited

21 W. Washington
for information
000090800800 80898098088089880888888088838898985888
THE RING-TUM PHI

Washington and Lee University’s Weekly Newspaper

Vol. LAAIH

An editorial

We are caught in the proverbial horns of a dilemma.

Today, Friday and Monday, students are voting on a referendum
to the student body consitution which would allow the Executive
Committee to call a closed session only for discussion of possible
honor violations.

Lo and behold, three weeks after the date of the referendum
and the referendum itself had been established, the EC Monday
night all of a sudden discovered a “flaw” in the referendum and has
launched an all-out campaign to prevent the referendum from being
affirmed,

The EC (see Lewis Powell’s letter below) wants to be able to
call closed sessions not only for honor violations, as is outlined by
the proposed amendent, but also for appointment of committees, a
process which the EC contends needs the utmost of privacy.

To pinpoint the dilemma, we must admit we see both sides of
the argument. On the EC’s side, we see where an applicant for a
committee would not want his application face the possibility of
scrutiny on the part of the entire student body. And we can see
where the process of deliberation over chosing an applicant has the
potential of becoming highly personal,

We must, however, note the other side of the issue. (See J. P.
Woodley’s letter, page 2). Consider, for example, the chairman of
the Student Activities Board. He directly presides over more than
510,000 of the student body’s funds. And other committee members
handle other matters relating to the campus as a whole.

Proponents of the proposed amendment feel open selection of
committee members would ensure that the best man be chosen.
Cognate with this is the feeling that open selection of committees
would prevent the EC from picking its buddies as chairmen and
committee members. This charge is leveled almost annually at the
EC, and, since we don’t know how the selection is made, the charge
is not necessarily without reason,

Thus, we are inclined to hedge a bit when trying to pick the side
in the best interests of the student body. If we listen to the EC, then
committee members should be picked confidentially to assure that
the best man for the job be chosen. And the proponents of the pro-
posed amendment, the adversaries of the EC, say just the opposite.

We must agree with the proposed amendment as it now stands,
and to vote for its passage. We feel this would benefit the student
most of this issue. But the decision is not ours to make, much to the
EC’s delight; and neither is it the EC’s decision, much to our delight.

The decision is yours, much, we hope, to your own delight. Vote.

The EC’s side

Hess (0 serve on

A Student Body referendum on
a. proposed constitutional amend-
ment began this morning and is
scheduled to run for three days.
This amendment, if passed, would
prohibit the Executive Committee
from holding closed sessions on
any matter other than possible
honor violation nivestigations. Al-
though the idea is basically sound,
this proposal has a very serious
fiaw.

Each year the EC must appoint
interested and capable students to
11 student and student-faculty
committees. The process of selec-
tion involves interviewing each
applicant, generally about 75 stu-
dents.

In order to ensure that quali-
fied people are chosen, each appli-
cant is carefully screened. This
necessarily involves the discus-
sion of such matters as his grades
and his ability to get along and
work well with others. In short,
the EC must talk to each appli-

eant, and then consider his fit-

a_ particular
committee. These interviews, and
the subsequent evaluations there-
of, have always been of a highly
personal nature, and have there-
fore been held in executive ses-
sion.

Should the proposed amend-
ment pass, this selection process
would in the future be held in
open session, As a_ prospective
applicant, would you want the
EC’s discussions of your qualifi-
cations to be open to the public?

Such lack of confidentiality
would, I submit, have two unde-
sirable effects. It would restrict
a free exchange between the EC
and the applicant. And, more im-
portantly, it might well discour-
age many capable students from
applving,

The passage of this amendment
would jeopardize what has proven
to be an effective committee ap-
pointment process. This amend-
ment is, in a word, ill-conceived.

Lewis Powell ’74

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA, FEBRUARY 7, 1974

By PAUL MORELLA

The University Council defeat-
ed a motion last Thursday to
reschedule the winter vacation
following many student com-
plaints that, because of the fuel
shortage, returning on Sunday,
Feb. 17, would be extremely dif-
ficult, particularly for students
who are planning to drive.

As originally planned, the
winter vacation will commence at
2:05 p.m. on Wednesday, Feb. 13
and extend through the following
Sunday.

The UC, nonetheless, did pass
a motion that the faculty be
alerted that due to certain travel
difficulties, many students would
possibly be absent on Monday,
Feb. 18. There is no way, how-

Number 16

UC not budging for fuel shortage

dates of winter break unchanged

ever, that the University can
The faculty last Monday ac-
knowledged the possibility of
fuel shortage-related absences on
Feb. 18.

Many students were arguing
that there are few, if any, gas
stations open on Sundays. They
maintained that this could easily
cause hardships to students plan-
ning to drive back to school and
who live more than a gas tank
away.

Despite the arguments, the vaca-
tion has been scheduled for some
time and many people have al-
ready made plans, according to
one UC member, so it was decided
that the break would remain as

is

New health services

committee

The University Council recom-
mended Thursday that W&L have
a Health Services Committee, and

the Executive Committee will
nominate student members.
The permanent committee

would continually study and sup-
ervise the university health facili-
ties. The seven members will be
students, faculty members, or ad-
ministrators. The EC will appoint
the students, and President Hunt-
ley will appoint the administra-
tors and faculty members.

One UC member and one stu-
dent-at-large will be appointed.
A student Library Committee
representative will also be select-
ed. Applications are due Monday
at 4 p.m. Interviews will be held
Monday at 8 p.m. The third stu-
dent will be an EC member.

The proposed constitutional
amendment which would limit
closed EC meetings comes up for
a vote this Friday, Saturday and
Monday. Several EC members

is Created

expressed concern that the EC’s

ability to appoint committees
would be hampered since the
amendment would limit execu-

tive sessions to honor violations
(See page 1 editorial).

A series of short articles will
be written for the Phi about the
duties of the Student Body Presi-
dent. Contributors include Presi-
dent Huntley, Dean John, three
past president, and incumbent
Doug Schwartz.

Law Student Roger Stamm’s
attempt to make students ex.
empt from the $15 Lexington
license tag failed at the Vir-
ginia Supreme Court. The ap-
peal cost about $350.
Curriculum Committee Chair.

man Herbie Rubenstein said his
committee is postponing the cur-
riculum survey until mid-March.
A seminar on independent majors
will also be held in March.

(Continued on page 8)

Fancy dress changes its theme

So you have always wanted to
go to Mardi Gras?

The gas shortage being as it
is, Fancy Dress 1974 is bringing
New Orleans and its world-re-
nowned celebration to Washing-
ton and Lee.

On Friday, February 22, the
Washington and Lee Student Cen-
ter will become the city of New
Orleans and Main Street, Lexing-
ton, will become Bourbon Street,

The festivities will get under-
way at 2 p.m. with a parade
through the streets of Lexington.

At 9:30 p.m., the doors of the
Student Center will swing open
and it will be festival time at
Washington and Lee.

As unto the “olden days,” dress
will be semi-formal or approri-
ate Mardi Gras costume.

Invitations may be purchased
for $7 per couple and will be
available in the Co-op and Stu-
dent Center beginning early next
week.

The theme was changed from
“Land of 0z” to “Mardi Gras” last
week by the IFC,
Page 2 THE RING-TUM PHI

Representing the students

The University Council, as campus propaganda puts it, “is design-
ed to give the students increased involvement in the University
governmental process” (Student Handbook, 1973-74, page 11).

It is not fulfilling this role, except, perhaps, in a nominal way.

The UC consists of the university president, the student body
president, four deans, and, in a nicely balanced arrangement, 12
faculty members and 12 students.

When the faculty created the UC in 1970, it had in mind that
the balance between students and faculty members would promote
the freest and most uninhibited exchange of ideas in the council.
The UC was to serve as a sounding board for student ideas.

Such has not been the case, at least when it comes down to taking
a vote on various issues.

Consider the following:

—A motion was introduced last term calling for open faculty
meetings. The move was designed to give students an idea of what
goes on behind some of the executive decisions made in the ad-
ministrative bureaucracy of Washington and Lee, no matter how
boring the decision-making process might be. The move was certainly
in the best interests of the students. Yet only three students voted
for the motion under the seemingly glaring eyes of faculty and
administration who opposed the opening of faculty meetings. The
student members, in the best interest of the student body, should have
voted for the motion.

In place of that strong resolution, the UC voted for a trade-
off in which the faculty would release what it thought was
pertinent to the discussion of the faculty meetings. That proposal
is currently under consideration by the faculty.

 

—Also last term, a motion was brought to the UC asking that
the faculty allow increased student participation in the Courses and
Degrees Committee, increasing student membership from one to six
students. The six students would have balanced out an equal number
of caulty and administrative personnel, and the C&D Committee and
the Student Curriculum Committee) that is supposed to be.

The proposal was watered down, with outside help, in the UC
to an eight faculty-four student solution. The proposal was defeated
by the faculty.

—Last Thursday, the UC voted against changing the dates of the
winter term break, scheduled for next Thursday through Sunday.
Students who live more than a tankful of gas away from W&L will
probably not be able to go home, because it would be worthless to
come back on a Saturday and almost impossible to come back on a
Sunday, due to the voluntary shutdown of gas stations on that day.

But, under what some UC students apparently felt was the menac-
ing suggestion by Dean Watt that the break remain unchanged, those
students overwhelmingly voted to go along with the administration’s
point of view, despite the fact that more than a tankful of students
will now stay here next weekend because they simply can’t go home.

A syndrome has developed among the UC student representa-
tives. It’s known as the “boy, I sure don’t want the faculty and
administration against me just because of some stupid proposal”
syndrome. Most, but certainly not all, of the UC students seem
to be placing their stature in the eyes of the faculty and administra-
tion ahead of the job to which they were elected—the job of repre-
senting the students.

About three-fourths of the student representatives are worrying
that the deans and professors are going to look at the way they
voted on a particular issue and automatically condemn that student
to death (or worse yet, to a “D”) if the opportunity arises. This is,
to quote a high-ranking White House official, ‘“poppycock.”

Certainly the administrative and faculty members of the UC
cast a menacing eye when they express their views on a particular
proposal, as certainly any member of a legislative body, particularly
one with high ranking, casts a menacing eye when he has something
to say about a proposal before that body.

But student representatives of the UC are apparently having a
hard time realizing that the menacing stare broadcast by a faculty
member or dean only affects what goes on within the confines of
the University Council. It certainly does not—indeed, it cannot in this
day and age—extend beyond the confines of council business.

And, certainly, faculty and administration are entitled to their
menacing stares, just as any legislator is entitled to voice his opinion
as adamantly as he may wish. But to interpret a professor’s look dur-
ing a debate as a warning that you'd better not come to class to-
morrow is sheer, again, poppycock.

And, it seems that the wishy-washy nature of most student UC
members has made the faculty sit back and wonder about a student
proposal, particularly if a majority of the students of the UC fail
to vote for the proposal. How can the faculty seriously entertain a
student motion if the student closest to the faculty—those on the
UC. are afraid to represent the students?

It’s time the majority of the University Council student representa-
tives stop looking out for themselves when they don’t have to and
start following that minority of UC student representatives who have
been seeking to represent the student body as best they know how,

Thursday, February 7, 1974

 

Fear on the University Council

TTERS TE

On the referendum

SH

Today, tomorrow, and Monday
the student body will vote on a
constitutional amendment pro-
hibiting closed EC meetings ex-
cept in cases of possible Honor
violations. The issue had the
initial and vocal support of EC
President Doug Schwartz and
Secretary Ben Sherman, and that
of many other members of the
Committee.

Now, Doug and Ben have de-
cided to reverse their positions
on this issue and oppose the
passage of this amendment. They
now feel that the Executive Com-
mittee should have the ability to
meet in secret to consider ap-
pointments to various Student
Body Committees.

It is precisely this kind of
secrecy that the proposed amend-
ment sought to prohibit. The stu-
dent body has every right to
know what criteria are used for
these appointments, and what
justification is presented by their
elected representatives for these
choices.

I hardly need point out that
the bodies that the EC appoints
have tremendous potential im-
pact on the lives of W&L stu-
dents.

The Cold Check Committee has
enormous quasi-judicial powers.
So does the faculty-student Stu-
dent Affairs Committee. The
Student Activities Board spends
the lion’s share of student body

—Cartoon by Killpack

   

funds. These men, once appoint:
ed, serve totally without review
from anyone outside the Execu-
tive Committee.

The EC now appoints these
people in camera, with no stu-
dent body review of their de-
cisions.

These men could be guilty of
the grossest dereliction of duty,
and perform grave injustices on
students, but, in the interests of
confidentiality, the reports of
these injustices would never be
made public. Some check, how-
ever informal, on these appoint-
ments would be provided by in-
suring that the EC held its
deliberation in public.

Also, open meetings would al-
low additional student input on
these vital decisions. I am not a
superstitious man, and I do not
think election to the Executive
Committee confers upon any indi-
vidual a superhuman supply of
wisdom. Only adherence to some
such superstition could justify
closed EC meetings for making
appointments.

In my three and one-half years
at W&L, the EC has slowly de-
cended from its once-Olympian
heights to become more and more
open and less and less aloof from
student input and critcism. The
proposed amendment is another
step away from an Olympian EC
toward a modern representative
student government.

Very truly yours,
John Paul Woodley, Jr., ‘74

( See Other Letter Page 8)
Thursday, February 7, 1974

Inside-Out

By ROME SCOTT

   

You know, when a columnist is stumped on what to write he
often leans back to think about the things he’s written in the past.

This is one of those times and with the stereo turned way up,
Allman Brothers’ music seething in one ear, out the other and in
again, it’s natural that one of their past concerts should come up.
In this case, though, two of the group’s concerts come to mind.

One winter in Lexington, not so long ago, there was a concert in
the old gym. Cowboy, a virtually unknown country-rock band, and
the Allman Brothers complete with Duane Allman and Berry Oakley,
both now dead, put on that show.

If the show had been reviewed, Cowboy would have gotten the
raves while the Brothers: would have been left wanting.

With this in mind, as well as the conflict between those who
believe the old Alimen Brothers better than the new, here is a
review of a recent Brothers concert:

For many of those there, the Allman Brothers’ concert did not
end with the final note of the music.

And it will go on in both thought and feeling for many reasons.

Drive, the basic element in any contemporary music group’s ability
to captivate an audience, is abundant in the new Allman Brothers
Band.

Both, as individuals and as a unit, the band punches its sound out
with an impact that is, simultaneously, jackhammer hard and soul
soft.

The melody lines are hauntingly heavy and stick with the listener
long after the songs are finished but, even as they are haunting, the
lines are biting and touch the innermost depths of one’s feeling.

The complexity of the group’s music’s effect originates in the
members’ ability to use each instrument’s sound individually to
create an intricate, melodic, yet rhythmic whole.

Guitar phrases by Dickie Betts are complimented harmonically,
primarily, by upper thirds from Greg Allman on the organ and piano
player Chuck Nevile adds depth and body to the intent projected by
the guitar and organ.

Lemar Williams, replacing Berry Oakley on bass, contributes a
gutsy touch through clear, deep tone and dynamic style.

And the two drummers give a solid percussive but simple basis
for the combined sound of the other instruments.

Firmly founded in old time T-Bone and Lightnin’ Hopkins blues,
the Allman Brothers’ music is “boogie blues,” a mixture of funk and
feeling that makes it impossible for the listener to sit still.

Lacking nothing essential for the loss of an almost legendary
Duane Allman, the Allman Brothers Band has proven that a group’s
music is not necessarily determined by one member.

At the top of musical stardom with Duane Allman, the group has
lost none of its shine without him.

That’s the opinion of one reviewer as are all critiques but those
who disagree still dance when the Allman Brothers begin.

Music professor’s composition to be presented

   

THE RING-TUM PHI

2z

Page 3

 

‘Oregon’ music group

By W. PATRICK HINELY

Music is better played than
talked about, but it is said that
good musicians can do both. Of
course, many of the best music-
ians have said that good music
speaks for itself and needs no
words. These and other topics
may be up for discussion, verb-
ally and musically, when the four
musicians collectively Known as
Oregon visit the W&L campus for
Contact ’74.

They will present a concert in
Lee Chapel, at 8:30 p.m. on
Wednesday, March 6. An impro-
visational workshop will be held
in Fairfax Lounge on Thursday,
March 7, from 2 to 5 p.m.

The members of Oregon gen-
erally try to avoid classification
of their style(s) of music, for the
reason that putting verbal labels
on music is, in itself, a false
limitation upon a true art. Per-
haps the most meaningful gen-
eral description of their body of
work would be chamber ensemble
jazz.

Critics have cited Oregon’s
music as the type of work from
the 1970’s which will endure to
become “classical” in the coming
centuries. The group has two
albums, on the Vanguard label,
“Music of Another Present Era,”
recorded in 1972, and “Distant
Hills,” recorded last summer and

Ask Traveller

‘to appear in Contact

scheduled for release this month.
They can also be heard as part
of the Winter Consort on “Road,”
an A&M album, which was theit
first musical experience as a
group.

The four musicians who com-
prise Oregon are Paul McCand.-
less, on oboe and English horn,
Glenn Moore, on basses, fiute,
piano, and violin, Ralph Tower,
on guitars, piano, mellophone and
trumpet, and Collin Walcott, who
plays sitar, tabla, clarinet, violin,
and assorted percussion.

McCandless was an oboe major
at Duquesne University and the
Manhattan School of Music,
studying under Robret Bloom and
Bernard Goldberg. He has played
with the New Haven, Pittsburgh,
and Springfield Symphony Orch-
estras, and was a finalist in the
New York Philharmonic’s Eng-
lish horn auditions in 1971. While
a member of the Winter Consort,
he appeared at Tanglewood,
Chautauqua, the Schaeffer Festi-
val, and Fillmores East and West.

Glenn Moore majored in His-
torv at the University of Oregon.
He studied bass with Edgar
Gomez and Ron Carter, among
others. He has studied piano with
Bill Evans, Jan Hammer, Paul
Bley, and Denny Zeitlin, and
studied flute with Jeremy Stieg.

(Continued on page 8)

Q—Why was the Land of Oz theme dropped from Fancy Dress? I
bought a fifty-dollar scarecrow suit with a straw lining, and now

stray sheep follow me around!

A—Some fellers have all the luck. But, be careful; sheep are quite
filthy animals who think nothing of telling rude jokes in mixed
company or prancing about in their ewe-trou. And they can’t

balance a checkbook ,either.

All levity behind, the adoption of the Land of Oz motif was

A new composition for violin
and piano by a Washington and
Lee music professor will be per-
formed for the first time tonight.

included in a concert by Allen
Ohmes, first violinist with the
Stradivari String Quartet, and
James Avery, accompanist.

blocked by too many obstacles at the planning stage. For one
thing, no one on the Student Activities Board could think of
what the Emerald City looked like, although one member insisted

he had worked there last summer as a busboy and that the
general style of architecture was “predominately tossed with a
tasteful layer of Thousand Island.”

Secondly, the call for the EC members to play the parts of
Munchkins in the projected parade through town generated no
little complaint within the Council itself. (“Somebody’s gotta
do it,’ said Mike Brittin, SAB chairman, when Doug Schwartz,
the student body president, remarked that, at Cornell, they all
got to dress as tin-men or wizards at their Oz prom.)

The third problem encountered with the Oz theme was the
Bldg. & Grounds’ refusal to plant a small poppy field outside
Evans Dining Hall for the Queen of the Parade to sleep in.
(‘Just like Dorothy and Toto did in the movie,’ Brittin ex-
claimed to the EC).

The final decision to “drop a house” on the idea came when
Mrs. Grundy’s second grade class at the local elementary school
announced that it was planning a parents’ tea around the same
theme. (Complained Schwartz to Phi reporters: “The little buggers
stole our show!”).

So, my advice to you is to throw out your fifty-dollar suit
before it mildews, or else, go to Fancy Dress as a wealthy scare-

The piece, “Duo for Violin
and Piano” by Robert Stewart,
professor of music and acting
head of the department, will be

Stewart’s new composition was
written last summer.

The concert will take place at
S p.m. in Lee Chapel.

THE RING-TUM PHI

The Ring-tum Phi is published on Thursdays during the college year.
It is printed by the Journalism Laboratory Press, Washington and Lee
University. The mailing address is Box 899, Lexington, Virginia 24450.
Ientered as second class matter September 29, 1946, at the Post Office,
Lexington, Virginia 24450, under the act of March 3, 1879. Subscription
rates: $6.00 for the school year, $3.00 for the semester.

PAUL J. LANCASTER ANDREW J. A. CHRISS
Editor-in-chief Business Manager

Managing Editor
Sports Editor

Jess Reeves
Bill Austin

ge ee a ee a Bill Robinson crow visiting the Mardi Gras, which is the theme replacing the
I, I Ba in os oh i a Rome Scott old one.

eee. a .David Lee Q—Yeah, but what about the sheep following me?
es ee Dave Finnell, John Killpack, Chuck Alt A—“If you look more closely, you'll see that they’re really Mrs.
Comtrisetens ... vac cs Tim Moore, Steve Yevich, Tom Rittenburg, Grundy’s second graders. (How do you think they got the

Bill Flesher, Paul Morella, W. Patrick Hinely, John Zamoiski theme?)”’
Page 4

THE RING-TUM PHI

Hillside Terrace being replaced

W&L’s married student housing

Editor's note— This is the
second in a series of articles
exploring housing at Washing-
ton and Lee. This week, a look
at married student housing.

By TOM RITTENBURG

Have vou ever wondered why
the married students at Washing-
ton and Lee live in housing that
looks like Traveller’s stable or a
scene from Sergeant York? The
reference, of course, is to the Hill-
side Terrace units southwest of
the university on Woods Creek.

Some of the apartments, if that
term can be properly used, are
now being torn down in that
complex. Yet, 27 married students
and their families still live there.

The Hillside and Davidson Park
behemoths are army-style hous-
ing units first built in 1945 to
handle the influx of veterans en-
tering college after World War
lI. The housing was supposed to
be temporary. But a lack of funds
and a lack of need to retire the
units has kept their status as
temporary for more than a gen-
eration.

Frank Parsons, assistant to the
president at W&L, says the apart-
ments, contrary to their outward
appearance, are actually quite
comfortable inside. He says each
student and family modifies the
interior to satisfy individual
taste, and there are generally few
complaints, particularly at $50 a
month in Hillside.

Parsons says the university is
now tearing down some of the
apartments as the demand lessens.

 

OPEN
KALEIDOSCOPE
Arts and Crafts Shop

11 South Jefferson St.
Monday-Friday
9:00 a‘m. to 5:30 p.m.

 

 

AVON

CAN’T WORK 9 TO 5?
The great thing about being an
Avon Reprentative is the flex-
ibility! You can earn money in
vour spare hours and still have
time for vour family. Call:

Linda Lickliter
Call Collect
703-885°5980

 

Two units of three apartments
each are being taken down cur-
rently. One was used last term
only for storage; the other re-
mained unused.

Once the unts are torn down,
the land over which they were
can be returned to the city. The
city owns all Hillside Terrace and
Davidson Park land. Plans are
tentative for a park to replace
the apartments. Hillside is ex-
pected to be torn down long be-
fore Davidson Park.

The university was to replace
the Hillside housing in 1971, but
formal plans fell through. First
bids for 30 units of new married
student housing near Liberty Hall
were accepted, but W&L decided
to investigate the possibilities of
a Housing and Urban Develop-
ment Department grant before
proceeding with construction.

HUD’s red tape and inflation
multiplied costs and designs for
construction. Upon asking for a
second set of bids, the university
received but one—some 49 per
cent higher than what W&L felt
it could afford.

In the meantime, a local con-
struction firm received a HUD
grant to build a 100-unit family
style apartment complex north of
Lexington. Work has begun on
the units just off Rt. 39 by the
Moose Fairgrounds. Some of the
units are expected to be finished
by next fall.

Rent will be competitive with
that of local housing, according to
Parsons. The university will
recommend the new complex to
married students and hopes this
way to eliminate need for Hill-
side, so the complex can be de-
molished.

Rent, rent subsidy, and housing
design information will be avail-

Thursday, February 7, 1974

able from the office of William
Mohler in Washington Hall in a
few weeks.

The university will continue to

use the facilities of Davidson Park
as it says those units are still
in good shape, while Hillside is
gradually retired.

Law students staff
Legal Aid Society

Editor’s note: This is the sec-
ond in a series of articles ex-
ploring community — services
both by and for students at
Washington and Lee.

By DARRYL CARLTON

The Legal Aid Society was
started in 1966, according to its
adviser, Dr. Lawrence Gaughan,
to satisfy the regulations of
the American Bar Association
through the Virginia Supreme
Court.

In Lexington, it was initiated
by the Rockbridge/Buena Vista
Bar Association. Each client must
have a practicing lawyer to de-
fend him in court, but law school
students do most of the work
on each case, according to Dr.
Gaughan.

The Legal Aid Association
works with indigents or people
who can’t afford to hire lawyel's
in the community. Cases fought
through this society range from
divorce and other family law
problems to entitlement to gov-
ernment benefits through welfare
and other agencies.

Dr. Gaughan commented that
the Legal Aid Association is en-
tirely volunteer to the law stu-
dents and, in fact, charges a
five-dollar fee to insure commit-
ment to the program. He also
said that he has hopes that a
bill will soon be passed by the

 

SENIOR

 

INFORMAL
PORTRAITS
Prints Available

Monday Evenings 8-9

Thru March 18

Student Center 200

THE CALYX

 

state legislature “which will en-
able third year law students to
take cases into court under com-
petent supervision.”

Reach-Out and the Legal Aid
Society differ in their relation-
ship to the students and to the
community. The Legal Aid So-
ciety is staffed by law students
working with lawyers, but it does
not, in general, provide help to
Washington and Lee students.
Reach-Out’s main emphasis is al-
so on the community, but it
encourages student participation
as both client and satff.

NOTICE

The Student Activities Board
will offer a concert Saturday at
8 p.m. in the Cockpit.

Steve Askins, playing the guitar
and mandolin, and Bill Haymes
on the guitar and piano, will per-
form in the concert sponsored by
the SAB’s University Center
Committee.

The musicians have been across
country in a recent national tour.

The two have appeared at
Washington and Lee previously.
They appeared during Homecom-
ing 2.

 

R/C Theatres
Regal Cinema Fare
in Lexington

State Theatre

12-14 W. Nelson St. 463-3424

HELD OVER ANOTHER WEEK

The Way We Were

Lyric Cinema
135 S. Main St. 463-3543

NOW SHOWING

Friends

Rated R

SUN.-MON.-TUES

Slaughterhouse Five

 
Thursday, February 7, 1974

THE RING-TUM PHI

Page 5

 

The fuel crisis and the winter break

An analysis

By JOHN MULLIKEN
Washington’s holiday begins
next Wednesday as_ originally
scheduled and most of the stu-
dent body will be heading out
of Lexington dispite the UC and
the energy crisis. The UC re-

fused to change the dates of the
break, so classes will begin on
Monday, Feb. 18. But don’t worry
about driving back on Sunday,
the UC passed a resolution to
inform the faculty not to be sur-
prised if nobody comes back until

Tuesday.
There are other side effects
than no gas on Sunday with

which the student traveler must
cope—the price and availability
of gas, illegal price gouging, and
59 mph speed limits.

Currently the price of gas seems
to be running between 50 and 60
cents per gallon. Locally, the
average price is 49.5 for regular
and 53.4 for high test. Prices will
tend to be higher near urban

Film, dance end Black Culture Week

note — This is the
and final article in a
on this week's Black
Culture Week activities. This
week, reporter Steve Yevich
highlights tonight’s and Fri-
day’s events,

Rditor’s
fourth
series

     

 

D Wendell P. Russell, president of Virginia State College, lectured

-

70 Went at { and 2 piss

documentary film on the life of
Martin Luther King, Jr., will be
shown in Reid Hall.

The film traces King’s life from
Montgomery to Memphis, during
which time he became a leading

     
 

to Washington and Lee students Monday night in the second of a

series of events marking Black Culture Week at W&L.

™

—Photo by Robinson

FOR YOUR EXTRA PIECES OF FURNITURE

Varner & Pole

115 Main St. —

Lexington, Va.

 

 

(7

 

Si UDG N-T Sl

Make this your headquarters for Good Food

and Service

We have meal tickets at savings to you

SOUTHERN INN

>

 

 

 

 

civil rights activist. The docu-
mentary shows his resistance in
assuming a Jeadership role in the
Montgomery bus boycott in 1955,

and then follows his rise in
popularity and power among

blacks, which climaxed with the
famous “I Have A Dream” speech
at the Lincoln Memorial in 1963.
Also shown are some of the
many frustrations, fears and an-
xieties experienced by King as
he fought for civil equality. The
film ends with his death in
Memphis in April, 1968.
Tomorrow night “The Black
Ball” will be held in Evans Din-
ing Hall, from 8:30 to 12:30. The
Love Men, a group from Roa-
noke, will provide the entertain-
ment. This invitational ball is a
formal affair; tickets, which are
$2, are available in the bookstore.

 

STOP!!
ask yourself...

“Where Will I Be and What
Will I Be Doing 5 Years
From Today if I Continue
What I Am Doing Now?”
We have 3 sales positions to
fill which can develop into
MANAGEMENT for the right
person.

e Atend 2 weeks Sales Train-

ing School at our Sales
Training Center, expenses
paid.

@ Be guaranteed $800-S1000 a
month to start

@ Be given the opportunity
to advance rapidly into
MANAGEMENT.

TO QUALIFY:

Must be sportsminded
Age 21 or over

Ambitious - dependable
High School Graduate or
better

@ Own good car

For the right person, this is a
lifetime career opportunity
with an international group
of companies. For personal
and confidential interview,
please send resume with both

home and = schoo] telephone
number. WRITE TODAY for
your career interview. DO IT
now! !!

P, O. BOX 4613
RICHMOND, VA. 23229

 

 

 

areas,

Also in the cities, many sta-
tions are limiting the quanity a
customer can purchase to some-
thing like $38 worth, or ten gal-
lons. Long lines, some over a
block long are forming more fre-
quently at metropolitan stations.
Many stations have cut back the
hours they are open, and few sta-
tions are open at night.

Monday, Feb. 18, when we re-
turn to Lexington, is a legal holi-
day. A survey of local proprietors
indicatates that most gas stations
will be open. However, many
speed traps will also be in busi-
ness.

 

MED
SCHOOL
ADMISSION
PROBLEMS?

KuroMed
may olfer RX via
overseas training

For the session starting Fall,
1974, Kuromed will assist quali-
fied American students in gain-
ing admission to recognized
overseas medical schools.

And that’s just the beginning.
Since the language barrier con-
stitutes the preponderate dif-
ficulty in succeeding at a for-
eign school, the Euromed pro-
gram also includes an inten-
sive 12 week medical and con-
versational language course,
mandatory for all students.
Five hours daily, 5 days per
week (12-16 weeks) the course
is given in the country where
the student will attend medical
school.

In addition, Euromed provides
students with a 12 week inten-
sive cultural orientation pro-
gram, with American sudents
now studying medicine in that
particular country serving as
counselors,

Senior or graduate students
currently enrolled in an Ameri-
can university are eligible to

participate in the Euromed
program,

For application and further
information, phone toll free,
(800) 645-1234
RAE AN MR

or write,

Kuromed, Ltd.

170 Old Country Road
Mineola, N.Y, 11501

 

 

 
Page 6

>

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

Thursday, February 7, 1974

W&L nips Bridgewater in overtime,
demolishes Bowie State team, 111-65

By BILL AUSTIN
SCORES:

W&L 84 Bridgewater 83 (ot)
W&L 111 Bowie State 65

Following their well-played loss
t Randolph-Macon, Washington
and Lee’s’ basketball Generals
nade the rest of this past week
a profitable one.

In Wednesday’s game against
Bridgewater, W&L gained a mea-
sure of revenge for an earlier loss
tao the same squad, and managed
to overcome the season-long jinx
which had dogged such tight con-
tests.

Then, in another home game
this past Saturday night, the Gen-
erals shredded Bowie State’s zone
press and illusions of victory to
the tune of a 111-65 walloping.
The wins hiked the team’s over-
all record to 7-10, and fueled
speculation concerning a .500 sea-
son’s finish.

The Bridgewater game follow-
ed the pattern established in sev-
eral previous contests, where
W&L mounted a sizeable advant-
age only to watch it disappear in
the late going. True to form, the
Generals grabbed a 39-33 half-
time lead behind the sharp-shoot-
ing of guard John Podgajny. His
10 points topped General scoring
tallies in the opening stanza,
while Skip Lichtfuss added eight.

Predictably, the Eagle staged a
determined come-back bid in the
final 20 minutes of play. Down
bv eight at 47-39, Bridgewater
found its fire-power in two senior
forwards, Sam McCoy and Tom
Payne. The Eagles took the lead
on a Payne jumper with 4:45

 

East Lexington
Grocery

Beer — Ice — Gas
Party Supplies — Snacks

Open 7 days a week
ABC No, 2078—8 a.m.-10 p.m.
SHOP FOR SUNDAY
EVENING DINNER
We Sell & Deliver Kegs

 

 

 

ss Lent eae fete onto oesteste oneness oestenteoesteonbntstnfeobstnteostenteatsteteofntesteseotote tee

“te

’,
A
Y,
“¢

y
t
J
*¢

Travel

The First National Bank

: of Lexington
; has special checking accounts for students
seeteetotoletoh dedetoleceteledeteedettledeeel detuldoedetobebdotebdetondedotledetes

remaining, and moved the margin
to three points, at 72-69, on a
McCoy follow-up. Skip Lichtfuss
personally answered the chal-
lenge by tallving four points in
the final minute and a_ half,
bringing the Generals back to a
74-74 tie at the lose of regula-
tion play. 3

In overtime, the lead see-sawed
hectically until, with but nine
seconds left, Podgajny sank both
ends of a one-and-one situation.
His pressure-packed free throws
gave W&L an 84-81 advantage and
the game. The clutch tosses also
fattened his personal point-total
to 20. Lichtfuss topped team
effforts with 30. In a losing cause
McCoy scored 22 and Payne 20.

Saturday night’s game contain-
ed none of Wednesday's tensions,
as the Generals never trailed.
Rather, this was the night for
fluid fast breaks, incredible shots
and soaring shooting percentages.

Led by junior Guy Kerr, who
chose an impressive way to cele-
brate his birthday, W&L made
shambles of Bowie State’s pre-
tenses to a full court press.

Kerr poured in 18 first-period
points, but his offensive excel-
lence was not a unique occurrence
on this particular evening. Team-
mate Greg Croghan and Skip
Lichtfuss joined in the first-half
celebration, tossing in 14 and 10
points, respectively. Actually, no
one missed very often; the team
shot a blistering 62% for 20
special minutes,

In addition, guards Podgajny,
Williams, Porath, and Maloney
dazzled onlookers (which too

Paul’s Bike Shop

11 N. New St, Staunton
Phone 886-1310
PAUL Now Accepting All
BIKE REPAIRS at
Sears’ Lexington Store

Pick-Up Every Wednesday
Returned On Wednesday.
Also New 10 Speeds Batavus
Bikes For Sale.

-

Me ate e ake Me ale eae ale

ee eS Se eee ee

 

A

“s

Youth Fares to Europe!

SEE LEXINGTON’S

8
®
6
a
. . 6
Unlimited :
*
21 W. Washington :

for information =

C0000 COCO OOO OOOOOO OOOO SOO OOODOODOOOOOCOS

‘the

often included Bowie State play-
ers) with sharp, accurate passes.
Apparently impressed, the sopho-
more-dominated Maryland visitors
stumbled to a 27-point deficit at
intermission.

The final period’s excitement
stemmed only from .the size of
point’ spread.
Coach Canfield belatedly cleared
his bench, the rout continued,
with John Rice and Steve Hand
contributing finishing touches to
the one-sided affair.

For the night, Kerr collected
32 points, Lichtfuss 21. Croghan
missed only a_ single shot in
adding 18, Other double-figure
scorers included Podgajny with 12
and Bow Williams with 13. As
a team, the Generals shot 55%

Ring-tum Five devastates

By DAVE SCHRACK,
JOHN KEEFE,
STEPHEN STRAWSBURG
The Ring-tum Five demolished
the WLUR Bottom 10 Saturday,
19-19, to take a 1-1-1 lead in the
long-standing series between the

two media.

Dave Schrack sank a free throw
with no time remaining on the
clock to preserve the tie.

Referees for the game were
Chet Burgess and Donnie Crosby,

Dry Cleaning

Linen Service

WE DELIVER

Kven when:

Storage & Free Moth Proofing

from the floor. Indicative of the
futility, Bowie State adopted a
speed offense late in the game to
slow things down.

Wé&L hosted Lynchburg Col
lege this past Tuesday. Unfortun.
ately, the result of the rematch
was not available at press time.

Tomorrow night, the Generals
face York College in an 8 p.m.
Doremus encounter. Saturday, the
squad travels to Norfolk for a
collision with Old Dominion Uni-
versity, a team some view as the
vear’s best in the small college
ranks. A sampling of recent Mon-
arch victims includes the likes of
Fast Carolina University, Madi-
son and Xavier University. In-
deed! The game will be broadcast
on WLUR-FM radio.

WLUR-FM Radio, 19-19

WLUR staff members.

Phi player-coach Bill Austin,
sidelined because of a_ sinister
force, displayed perfect strategy
in the win. An unnamed source
says Austin told his squad, “Go
out there and don’t look like
fools.” Needless to say, they did
not heed his advice.

Phi Entertainment Editor Rome
Scott was, well, entertaining.

The game preceded the varsity
romp over Bowie State.

UNIVERSITY
CLEANERS

Reliable Service In

Shirts Laundered
Clothing Repair

463-3622

 

$

121 W. Nelson

$

 

NEED EXTRA CASH

STUDENT LOANS AVAILABLE
NO AGE RESTRICTION

PEOPLES Finance Service

OF LEXINGTON

$

Phone 463-3176

$

 

 
Thursday, February 7, 1974 THE RING-TUM PHI Page 7
Wrestling team faces Va. Tech, Swim squad upsets
Old — in contest Saturday William and Mary,

at goes to state meet

In a surprising upset, Washing- leg of the winning medley relay
ton and Lee’s swim team defeated and won the 200 yard fly. He
William and Mary this past week- also took a second in the 200 yard
end, 65-48. The victory was the IM, which he didn’t know he was
first by the General swim team swimming until just before the
over the Indians in 10 years, and race started.
it raised the team to a 6-3 over- Providing much of the excite-
all dual meet record for the year. ment in the meet freshman Van

Actually, the score does not [Leer won both the 50 yard and
indicate how close the meet really 199 yard free-style events by
was. In three events, the total fractions of a second. In the 500,
time separating the Generals he beat William and Mary’s Me-
from the William and Mary con-  [ntire by one tenth of a second.
testants was 23 hundredths of a Appearing soundly beaten, Tiers
second. As Coach Stearns pointed went into the last turn trailing by
out, “a loss in anyone of these ten yards. But in a burst of
events could have cost us the speed, which he must have been
meet.” saving for 475 yards, he made up

Sterling performances in the the deficit and touched out Wil-
meet were turned in by sopho-  jjam and Marv’s stunned swim-
more Robert Searles, junior Cap- mers.
tain Will Brotherton, freshman Taking a first in the 1000 was
Tad Van Leer, freshman Porter McNeil. He breezed by his op-
McNeil and sophomore Bill Tiers. ponents in an easy victory that,

Searles, who participated in the surprisingly enough, was not one
winning medley relay and took of his faster times this year,
povaboe Sa a first in both the 200 yard indi- The Generals will be in Norfolk
vidual medley and the 200 yard for the state meet February 14-16.
backstroke, had an exceptionally
good day. Searles, who has been
erratic this year, is supposedly
feeling confident about his swim-
ming now and will be a big factor
in W&L’s hopes at the state
meet this year in Norfolk.

Brotherton swam the butterfly

 

  
  

The W&L wrestlers took two out of three matches at home last

Saturday. They face powerhouse Old Dominion, Pembroke State and

Virginia Tech at home this Saturday. The meet begins at noon.
—Photo by Robinson

  

Wendell’s
Barber Shop

OPEN 9-6

 
 

 

Town “n” Country Restaurant
Route 60—West

   

 

   

Hamric and Sheridan
JEWELERS
Watch and Jewelry Repair
Hand Engraving & Class Rings
463-2022

9 South Jefferson

     

Closed Wednesday

  

Monday-Thursday 9-10
Friday-Saturday-Sunday 9-Midnight

 

ae

 

BREAKFAST — LUNCH — DINNER

COCOCOOOESEEE CEOS EEOOOOOHO OOOOH OOOECEOOESEEUSEOS
Trigaan 34. GO,

Ph 463-7810 =. ~, ; re
sas Washington aud Lee University

 

Bonksture

Licit And Illicit Drugs

—Consumers’ Report

Marihuana; A Signal of
Misunderstanding

—National Commission

The New Social Drug

KEYDET-GEVERAL
Restaurant and Motel

Truly One of the South’s Finest
Superb Dining and

  
    
 

Picturesque Atmosphere.
Serving Food in the
Fine Tradition of Virginia.

For Reservations Phone 463-2143 —Smith
Complete Facilities for
Banquets, Weddings & Receptions Alcohol Problems
—Plaut

cf, One Mile West of Lexington on U.S. 60

 

 

SSSSCSSSSSCSSESECSSSE  SOCHOKCHOSSSSHSHCSECHSSCECCECCEEEEE
age 8 THE RING-TUM PHI

 

Oregon to perform in Contact °/4

(Continued from page 3)
has played and recorded with
nv jazz artists, including Chick

Cares “livin Jones ane = Ge
Winter Consort.

Ralph Towner majored in

rv and Composition at the
Tniversity of Oregon, prior to
studying guitar under Karl Scheit
the Acadamy of Music in
“tenna. He has plaved with the
E‘izabethan Consort, the Eugene
“jamber Ensemble, and has re-

pot

A ¢

corded with Weather Report,
Astrud Gilberto, Sonny Rollins,

Airto, the Winter Consort, and
Tim Hardin.

He has written music for films,
7OCerN Canes Works. and jas!
vear premiered an_ orchestral
concerto with the Indianapolis
Svmphonv. Towner and Moore
have an album on the ECM label,
‘Trios & Solos,” on which Me-
Candiess and Walcott also appear.

Collins Walcott majored in per-
cussion at the Indiana University
School of Music, and in Ethno-
1usicology at U.C.L.A., studying
under George Gaber and Walter
Rosenberger. Walcott is a_ sitar
student and disciple of Pandit
Ravi Shankar, and a tabla stu-
dent and disciple of Ustad Alla
Rakha. He has played with the
Columbus, Denver, Detroit, and
oronto Symphony Orchestras, as

   

well as with the Berkshire String
Quartet and the Society for Con-
temporary Music in New York.

Walcott has recorded with
Miles Davis, Richie Havens, Tim
Hardin, and the Winter Consort.
He has supervised music for
several films, and coordinated a
recording session with Yehudi
Menuhin and Ravi Shankar, one
of the major musical events of
the 1960’s.

Oregon's music is a blend of
the members’ various musical
educations and experiences, en-
compassing traditions from a-
round the globe and many
chronological periods.

\

inst crities have cited Euro-
pean classical, Brazilian, Indian,
gnc American Musics as tne
group’s main influences. Though
most of their material is from
music written by members of the
tain the freedom of improvisa-
group, Oregon prefers to main-
tion in plaving, using each song
Se ee ee see
musical communication.

The concert and worshop are
open to all as part of Contact ’74.
The workshop is designed for
anvone having a serious interest
in music, active or passive. All
musicians are invited to bring
their instruments.

Thursday, February 7, 1974

EC to name 3 to health services committee

(Continued from page 1)

Cold Check Committee Chair-
man ken McNulty said his com-
mittee has collected about $200
in fines since Oct. 22. Part of the
money may be donated to a stu-
dent loan fund.

Library Committee representa-
tive David Graham said the com-
mittee unanimously opposed a
checker in the library. It might

|

be counterproductive and could
undermine the honor system, ac
cording to Graham.
Next week:

—Proposed poll on the Honor
pysteni;

—Constitutional referendum re
sults;

—Appointments for the Health
Services Committee and the Li-
brary Committee.

There will be no issue of the Ring-tum Phi next
week due to the winter break.

 

 

 

Sir?

Observing events here at Wash-
ington and Lee over the past few
months, I have seen some positive
efforts to improve the Fine Arts
Department. At the Alumni Con-
ference, the Alumni of many dif-
ferent regions and ages talked of
beginning an effort for a Fine
Arts facility. Since then, Al Gor-
don has been hired to fill the
position of head of the Fine Arts
Department. This points to the
fact that the administration is
concerned.

In the meantime there is some-

‘an be done. The Sculpture Studio
is overcrowded with equipment
that is needed, but leaves very
little space for the students to
Work in.

While the studio is overcrowd:
ed a whole room is occupied by
a piece of equipment owned by
the Chemistry Department, but
which has not been used for the
last two vears, at least. This room
is needed desperately for equip-
ment that is already ordered.

With a minimum of effort, a
large improvement could be ae-
complished,

=
io

Robert Dwellev

)DAVIDSONS

 

123 West Nelson

Street, Lexington

 

* gia,
The Ring-tum Phi

Washington and Lee University’s Weekly Newspaper
LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA, FEBRUARY 21, 1974

Vol. LAXII!

‘Contact b

By BILL FLESHER
Sports commentator Heywood
Hale Broun will bring his unique
hiend of “sports and Shakespeare’”’
to Lee Chapel Monday, Feb. 25
at & 0. Gs part of the i974

Contact symposium.

Perhaps television’s most lit-
erate sports commentator, Broun
spices his reports on both major
and minor sporting events with
references to such literary giants

Fancy Dress weekend

Fancy Dress weekend opens
Friday with the Mardi Gras ball
in the University Center. The ball
starts at 9:30 p.m.

Tickets are available in the Co-

op from 10 a.m, to 3 p.m, today
and Friday. Tickets are $4 for fra-
ternity members and $7 for non-
fraternity students, Dress is semi-
formal.

EC hears debate on student tax use
for hiring lawyer for student body

By ROBERT PUGH

The EC discussed two proposals
for part of next year’s budget, a
student body lawyer and a tax
“rebate.”

Student Body President Doug
Schwartz suggested that the stu-
dent body hire an attorney to
handle student body cases and
advise individuals students who
have legal problems. Schwartz
thought $400 (25 cents per stu-
dent) from the student tax would
be an adequate fee. A local at-
torney will discuss the proposal
with the EC March 4.

Student Activity Board Chair-
man Mike Brittin asked the EC
to allocate $5 of the student tax
for use of the individual student.
Each would designate where he
wanted his money to go—speak-
ers, gym equipment, concerts, or
whatever.

Brittin said students with good
ideas could thus go around and
get others interested. This would
increase student participation in
university affairs. Vice President
and ex officio Treasurer Steve
Greene did not think adequate
funds existed to implement the
project next vear. Other EC mem-

bers questioned the proposal’s
workability. The idea is being
studied by an EC committee.

Sophomore rep Leland McCul-
lough suggested that the EC start
a petition about adding Monday,
April 15, to the spring break, so
students would not have to drive
back on a gasless Easter Sunday.
Petitions will be in the Co-op.
Students should voice their opin-
ion to EC or University Council
members. The UC meets next
Thursday and will discuss the
vacation’s length.

Junior John Killpack asked the
EC to make strict regulations
about posters on the campus. The
amount of posters, especially out-
of-date ones, is ridiculous, he said.
The idea is being studied.

Next week:

—Honor System questionnaire
discussion;
—report of Election Guidelines
Committee;

—regulations on posting notices;

—discussion of Spring Break;

—Library Committee report;

—discussion of the Commerce Re-
view;

—<discussion of the
Committee report.

Discipline

Constitutional amendment referendum passes

By PAUL MORELLA

The constitutional amendment
calling for open EC meetings ex-
cept in the case of possible honor
violations passed last week.

Of the 941 students voting, 675
voted for the amendment, while
266 voted against it.

Ted Amshoff, an amendment
proponent, spoke out on the “de-
plorable practices” which he said
the EC used during the time pre-
ceeding the election and during

the election itself, In suggesting
that steps be taken in order to
see that the alleged tactics don’t
happen again, Amshoff also pre-
sented the EC with a set of pro-
posed election guidlines.

In relation to the poster cir-
culated before the election, Am-
shoff argued that the EC “used
student body funds to push view-
points with which the students
didn’t agree.” In addition, he

(Continued on page 8)

as Shakespeare, Dickens, and
Dumas.

One critic has called Broun “a
superb athlete of images.” He
once described the professional

race driver as “a medieval knight

opens

A parade originally scheduled
for today was dropped by the
Student Activities Board, which
is sponsoring Fancy Dress.

Friday night, three bands and
a jazz pianist will provide the
musical entertainment in the Uni-
versity Center. Kallabash, Major
Lance, and the Chesapeake Bav
Bearcats will all perform. Besides
a main dance room (Evans Din-
ing Hall), there will be several
lounges at locations around the
Mardi Gras-decorated University
Center.

3eer will be available at no
cost during the ball.

Movies will be shown in one
of the lounges, featuring Mae
West, Betty Boop, and the Lone
Ranger.

Saturday will see a grain party
at. Zollman’s Pavillon from 2 to
6 p.m. Two bands will perform.
Class passes are required.

Editor’s note: For a history
of Fancy Dress, see page 4.

Number 17

rings Heywood Hale Broun

atop his dragon, surrounded by
beautiful maidens and banners.”

His style of reporting has gain-
ed him a devoted audience on the
CBS Saturday Evening News, as
well as the attention of the inter-
national sports world.

Unlike many spotscasters,
3roun cannot lay claim to any
great athletic prowess. While
earning Phi Beta Kappa honors
at Swarthmore, however, he was

number six man on the table
tennis team. if fact, = rous,

whose favorite sport is horse rac-
ing, calls his biggest sports tri-
umph winning $112 on a Ken.
tucky Derby wager.

Broun’s speech will be preced.-
ed by a 5 p.m. public reception
at the Sigma Nu fraternity house.

Broun joins columnist Art
Buchwald, the musical group
Oregon, and movie director Wil-
liam Friedkin among those com-
ing to W&L for the 1974 Contact
program.

The date of director William
Friedkin’s appearance at Wash.
ington and Lee has been ciang-
ed from Friday, March 1, to
Thursday, March 7. The direc-
tor of “The Exorcist” will ap-
pear at the Pi Kappa Phi house
for a reception at 5:30 p.m. and
will give a presentation at the
State Theatre at 8:30 p.m.

Alumni affairs lecturer speaks tonight;
speaker on faith to appear next week

Juanita Kreps

The place of the contemporary
American working woman will be
examined tonight in Washington
and Lee’s sixth Alumni Lecture
on Public Affairs. She will speak
in Lee Chapel at 8 p.m.

The speaker will be Dr. Juanita
Kreps, vice president of Duke Uni-
versity and professor of eco-
nomics there. Dr. Kreps’ topic
will be “Sex in the Marketplace:
American Women at Work,”
drawing from the title of a book
she wrote in 1971.

Dr. Kreps’ inquiry will survey
comparative pay scales between
men and women, the types of
work women are engaged in, and
particularly the question of why
so many women are working now.

She will also raise some basic
questions about family life under
woman’s new working arrange-
ments and changes in the roles
of family members.

Wilfred C. Smith

Professor Wilfred Cantrell
Smith will speak at Washington
SG) 62 £2 7 3 Mares 2
Lee Chapel on “Faith and Be-
lief—As Seen by an Historian of
Religion.”

Until recently, Dr. Smith was
Professor of World Religions at
Harvard, and director of that Unit-
versity’s Center for the Study of
World Religions. He was gradu-
ated in Oriental Languages by
the Univeristy of Toronto and
Princeton University and receiv-
ed training in theology at West:
minster Colege, Cambridge, Eng-
land. He is an ordained ministe:
of the United Church of Canada.
As lecturer and author, he has
reached a global audience: Mus-
lims in Cairo and Lahore; Hindus
in Calcutta and Benares; Buddh-
in Columbo, Bangkok, and
Kyoto, as well as academicians
in Jerusalem, Sidney, London, Ox-

ford, and Chicago.

ists

Give in today’s blood drive in Doremus Gym
THE RING-TUM PHI

 

 

OUTLOOK and REVIEW

On EC voting reform proposals

With the passage of a constitutional amendment last week limit-
ing closed Executive Committee sessions to discussion of possible
honor violations only came a bit more than just a victory for the
student’s right to know.

Charges and countercharges were tossed about like stale rolls in
a cafeteria food fight about unethical conduct by pro and con alike
during the three-day amendment voting. Proponents of the amend-
ment said certain members of the EC were running around like
turkeys with their heads cut off telling students to vote no on the
proposal, and EC members charged proponents with similar tactics,
refering to solicitation of votes for the proposal by what on student
called “Young Republican gorillas.”

Out of this verbal warfare came a proposal by one of the alleged
“gorillas” to bring an end to the possibility of unehical tactics during
voting on anv issue. He proposed the following:

—No actual vote count or count of the ballots shall be made be-
fore the close of balloting on the final day of voting. Official record
of the number and names of those students who have voted shall be
available at the end of the day’s balloting to any member of the
student body.

—Student body funds shall not be expended for the purpose of
influencing a student body vote on any matter; though expenditures
of student body funds for the purpose of publication of clearly im-
partial explanations or clarification of an issue shall be permitted.

—Those in charge of the polling places at any given time shall
maintain a position of total and absolute neutrality concerning the
candidates and/or issues being voted upon, though if directly ques-
tioned, they may render their opinion.

—Under no circumstances shall any person attempt to directly
influence the vote of any student after that student has obtained his
ballot, but has not yet cast it.

The proposals are, for the most part, exactly what the doctor
ordered for the feverish actions of some electioneers and politicos at
Washington and Lee. However, we take exception to the second pro-
posal.

As it currently reads, no student body money may be spent to
advocate views on an election issue. This stems from the EC’s spend-
ing of money for a poster which essentially told students to vote no
on the proposed amendment.

However well-intentioned this proposal might be, there is one
problem which hits home hard. As currently worded, the proposal
would mean the Ring-tum Phi could not comment on the election
issues.

While some may be overjoyed at the possibilities of the proposal
as such, any rule of this sort would clearly violate the First Amend-
ment of the Constitution, which prevents Congress, and presumably
any legislative body, from abridging freedom of the press.

But beyond constitutional implications, the proposed bill is simply
not feasible. The proposal would ban editorials, editorials which (we
hope) contribute to the students’ knowledge of the issues at hand.
Furthermore, any other column or opinion would have to be edited
out of the Phi, opinion ranging from Ask Traveller to a letter to the
editor. No one could say anything about an election issue, and the
students would be left in the dark on the meaning of the issues.

The arguments could go on for days. We only ask that the EC’s
committee to study the proposal look at this section carefully, and that
it do something to prevent the possible implications of conflict with
the U.S. Constitution.

THE RING-TUM PHI

The Ring-tum Phi is published on Thursdays during the college year.
It is printed by the Journalism Laboratory Press, Washington and Lee
University. The mailing address is Box 899, Lexington, Virginia 24450.
Entered as second class matter September 29, 1946, at the Post Office,
Lexington, Virginia 24450, under the act of March 3, 1879. Subscription
rates: $6.00 for the school year, $3.00 for the semester.

PAUL J. LANCASTER ANDREW J. A. CHRISS

Editor-in-chief Business Manager
Managing Wir oo... cece cece kere nee nn eeeremernnens Jess Reeves
Sports EGitor .. 6... cece eect e eee e een t ener en eeees Bill Austin
Photography Editor ........-..cseee eee eee ee rene ernees Bill Robinson
imate SOY os Sy oi a ee Rome Scott
ee ee Mn ee er re ee David Lee
Fe oi bi aS Dave Finnell, John Killpack, Chuck Alt
GomiyTUtOPS 2. tice eves Tim Moore, Steve Yevich, Tom Rittenburg,

Bill Flesher, Paul Morella, W. Patrick Hinely, John Zamoiski

 

Thursday, February 21, 1974

On UC representation
Sir:

In response to the editorial con-
cerning student representation on
the University Council (Ring-tum
Phi, February 7), I would like to
make a few comments.

First of all, I feel that there is
a great need for increased com-
munication between the student
body and its representatives on
the UC. You referred to the
“best interests of the students.”
But who is to say what these
interests are? It is my opinion
that the UC representatives have
been very jax in their responsi-
bility to communicate with the
students and to try to determine
how the students feel on different
issues.

ETUERS TO UE

 

bate, perhaps some information
of which the student was not
aware, Which could influence the
student’s decision.

By following this procedure,
the student representative can
gather a maximum amount of in-
put, weigh this input considering
all aspects, and then make his
final decision. However, I believe
as vou do, that a student should
not feel intimidated by what a
faculty member does or says.

The student members of the
University Council are meant to
act as a link between the student
body and the members of the
faculty and the administration.
Only if they strive to represent
the students and to inform them
of faculty opinions can they be
effective.

   

Sincerely,

©f course, 2 stiident who is :
Stephen Q. Giblin ’77

truly interested in UC actions
can take the initiative and seek
out his representatives. However,
I would guess that a significant
portion of the student body does

REGISTRATION NOTICE

Registration for the Spring
Term will be held next week.
not even know what the UC Students may pick up necessary
does. It is the duty of the UC forms in the Registrar’s office on
representatives to attempt to re- the day on which they are to
lieve this malady. register. Forms should be taken
to the student’s faculty adviser
for completion.

Registration dates are: Monday
— seniors; Tuesday — juniors;
Wednesday—sophomores; Thrus-
davy—freshmen.

Check notices posted around
campus for changes in the cata-
log for the Spring Term.

Once a representative sounds
out the students on an issue, he
should take their opinions with
him into the meeting. He should
then listen to and contribute to
the debate on the issue. It is
reasonable to expect that the fac-
ulty and administration members
could add something to the de-

Ask Traveller

Q—How do you explain all the Phi Beta Kappa’s given this year when
SATs are getting progressivley lower and the average student
can’t even sing the Campbell’s Soup jingle without harassing a
housewife first?

A—Good question. What seems to be a paradoxical situation, (moral
and mental deficiency being abundantly rewarded), is really just
a Canadian stand-off, which is not a smelly lumberjack, but rather
a type of problem having any number of equally ridiculous
answers.

The most obvious answer for low scores/high grades is the
sliding scale, by which a test score may be altered to compensate
for the test-taker’s background, intelligence, shoe size, or lack
of hair. As you may know, half the inhabitants of ancient Pompei
were posthumously awarded 720’s on their Law Boards through
the modern miracle of the sliding scale. (The other half were
disqualified for flicking ash all over the floor of the test center.)

Of course, the sliding scale can work both ways. Lower SAT’s
do not necessarily mean that W&L is getting an inordinate num-
ber of Western State out-patients as new students, It may signify
that standardized tests are becoming more difficult to take and
to accurately grade, or that they are being given to more diverse
groups, or that some Education Testing Center idiot in New
Jersey hasn't gotten paid and is having some fun until he does.

Another possible reason for the spate of Gold Key winners is
the shocking amount of out-and-out booking going on at W&L.
Hard work, steady application, and a capacity for sweating
through your hair can certainly make up for a lack of native
intelligence. And that, of course, cannot be measured by stand-
ardized tests. The one thousand volumes supposedly taken each
year from McCormick Library are not being taken by dishonest
students or stealthy cadets. Those books are literally demolished
through the constant handling and scuffling by Phi Bet Kappa
hopefuls. If you don't believe me, just take a look at that human
anatomy book behind the loose ‘brick on the fifth level. Either
the preface is shredded or that’s a mighty strange-looking pelvis.

Q—Isn’t it possible that professors are just grading easier?

A—It’s a pleasant thought. But the real issue is who ripped off the
section on “The Female Figure in Motion” from behind that
loose brick. The next shipment of anatomy texts won't come in

for another month.
Thursday, February 21, 1974

THE RING-TUM PHI Page 3

 

The Association—cherished no more

By ROME SCOTT
LEXINGTON—When you have
a good thing going, you should
hold on to it. This adage was
proven true Saturday night by vocal harmony which characteriz-
The Association’s concert for ed the Association’s music was
Midwinters at Virginia Military abundant in the six-man band’s

Institute as the group failed in
an attempt to update the sound
that made it famous.

The sparkling, velvet-smooth

“I love you for what you are,
but I love you yet more for
what you are going to be...”

—Carl Sandburg

 
      

Chosen but once and cherished forever,
your engagement and wedding rings will reflect your love
in their brilliance and beauty. Happily you can choose
Keepsake with complete confidence
because the guarantee assures perfect clarity,

precise cut and fine,
white color. There is
no finer diamond ring.

 

T-M Reg. A.H. Pond Co.

HOW TO PLAN YOUR ENGAGEMENT AND WEDDING

Send new 20 pg. booklet, “Planning Your Engagement and Wedding” plus
full color folder and 44 pg. Bride’s Book gift offer all for only 25¢. 8-74

 

Name

 

(Please Print)

Address

 

City

 

State Zip

KEEPSAKE DIAMOND RINGS, BOX 90, SYRACUSE, N.Y. 13201

 

 

 

Find your Keepsake Jewelers in the Yellow pages or dial free 800-243-6000. In Conn. 800-882-6500,

it is on record.

The Association’s newest at-
tempts at regaining the show
business limelight lack to depth.
of creativity and awareness shown
in its early music.

Instrumental backgrounds in
the new songs are blaring, blust-
ering, lack coordination and co-
herence, and strike the listener

performance but the arrange-
ments that gave the sound its
punch and personality were gone.
“Cherish,” “Never My Love,”

“Along Comes Mary” and other
million-sellers by the group were
widely acclaimed for their musi-
cal sensitivity and vocal sweet-
ness when first released but, in
concert, had innovations detract-

ing from the essence of those 45 being amateurish. .
qualities, The melody lines and back-
ground vocal harmonies are

Abrasive guitar breaks had — straight-forward, foolish trys at
been added to “Along Comes’ sounding like the new, non-per-

Mary” destroying the light-heart-
ed, airy mood of the song and
overpowering the tight harmony
of the vocals.

sonality hard rock and roll.

“A Rock and Roll Song,” the
group’s new record, evidences
this total disregard for what was

“Cherish,” the band’s biggest the uniqueness of The Association
hit, sounded like cocktail lounge sound, with a juked-up soul-rock
computer music designed as a &s the result.

background to lack-luster  con- The Association had something

good but has not held on to it
A bird in the hand is worth...

versation instead of the assertiv-
song

ely beautiful, lyrical love

 

Inside-Out

By ROME SCOTT

“The Last Tango in Paris” recently tangoed for the last time in
many places which, in the present climate of rule by community
standards, is not surprising.

Even with all the furor created by the movie’s appearance, any-
one seeing the film as an art form wonders how people can stop
yawning long enough to protest.

Bernardo Bertoluci’s movie’s only real transgression is that it is
boring, painfully boring.

“Last Tango” is flat photographically, has little content value and
creates an annoyingly trite conflict between the surreal technique and
cinema verite. ;

The movie opens with an unshaven, wild-eyed Marlon Brando
stumbling down the streets of Paris following a morally questionable
Maria Schneider.

But she does not remain morally questionable for long. Brando
follows her to an apartment she is thinknig of renting and seduces
her (fully-clothed, no less).

From this “chance” encounter, Brando and Schneider begin meet-
ing for no other reason than to satisfy selfish sexual drives, each
having the attitude that the arrangement is a temporary thing.

At the outset Brando is dominant, distant and unconcerned about
the girl’s emotional needs or wants but, as the film progresses, he
becomes emotionally involved himself.

As soon as he becomes involved, the girl begins to reject him until,
by the end of the film, he is chasing her all over Paris.

The chase ends with Schneider shooting Brando in a ritualistic,
slow motion scene meant to give the event impact. Rather than
impact, the viewer feels a sense of relief saying to himself, “I sat
through this whole thing for that?”

The color photography is done with flat lighting throughout
except when Schneider is being filmed in a series of art movies
which is the way she earns her living. Then the colors become vivid
but the technique becomes surrealistic and loses its immediacy.

The plot line is put forth on a constant “so what” level with no

climaxes in action unless one considers the shooting at the end
climactic.

  

 

eae

Bertolucci meant the movie to convey feelings of dispair, desola-
tion, and life lacking direction—the state of being portrayed by
Brando driven to folly by the death of his wife, an event never made
clear in “Last Tango.”

The film does convey these feelings well but does so with such
constancy that the viewer becomes numb to the sensation half way
through and by the end has lost sight of the film’s intent.

For this reason the end comes as a relief but not the tension
relaxing, sighing relief found at the end of an action film. Instead,
the relief is the type one experiences when being let out of a closet
he has been trapped in for two hours,

One leaves the theater glad to be alive after having the distinct
feeling of having been associated with death for a long evening at
the movies.

If boredom were a cause of death “Last Tango’s” rating would
read “Caution: this movie may be hazardous to your health,” How-
ever, it does not appeal to one’s prurient interests: it just does not
appeal to any interests at all,
Dp

Page 4

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

By PHIL KRAMPF
if began with 47 dollars.
Sometime during the 1906-07
idemic vear Miss Annie White,
Vashington and Lee’s popular
yrarian and part-time drama in-
siructor directed a play earning
nat non-phenomenal sum. The
industrious Miss White decided
sink the entire amount into a
ice, a Bal Masque she called it.
She did most of the planning,
‘astume arranging, the dec-

tinge, and the ballroom obtain-
g She enlisted 40 costumed
yupies dressed as everything

yn George and Martha Wash-
ngton to Buster Brown and King

lo, with many irregular stops
between.

And on February 12, 1907, she

ld Her Bal Masque.

One onlooker was moved to
xclaim: ‘Well, this beats any-
ing I ever saw!”

The fanev dress ball was born.
The ball grew quickly. So
uickty, in tact, that by =800 32¢
1d to be moved from Washing-
n and Lee’s gymnasium to the
skating ring on Main Street (the
skating rink on Main Street?),

Universit

Fditor’s note—This is the third
in a series of articles of services
provided by or for students at
Washington and Lee. This
week, reporter Darryl Carlton
interviewed Dr. James Worth,
university psychologist.

By DARRYL CARLTON

With the addition of Dr. James
Worth to Washington and Lee
in 1972, the university expanded
its counseling services to a five-
lay-a-week operation.

Dr. Worth has worked in
mental health clinics and state
hospitals, and has worked ex-

 

Dr. James Worth

rhere it was held the next seven
YG@al &.

Tnese early vears of Bal Masque
were not adorned with set themes.
Thev were simply costume balls.
A couple dressed as George and
Martha Washington generally led
the parade, and the formation of
that vear’s “figure”.

1916 seems to be the first vear
of the theme balls. That year,
the immortal Reuben A. Lewis
entered the ball dressed as Louis
XVi_and ied the the others in
“an intricate figure which lasted
half an hour.” Miss White was
still around then. She dressed as
Marie Antoinette. Many others
came in court costumes. The Bal
Masque became the Fancy Dress
Ball.

By 1923 the ball’s calendar date
was moved from the middle of
February to the end of January.
The Faney Dress Ball became
entrenched as a between semester
Ga L.

In the next two decades the
ball reached its zenith of popu-
larity. It snowballed, if you will.

But it was 1932 when Wash-
ington and Lee hit the big time:

psycholo

tensively with children

“I’ve been surprised and pleas-
ed with the sophistication of
W&L students with regard to
counseling,” he commented.
“Manv students don’t make their
visits to me a particular secret.”

However, he emphasized that
the counseling service was totally
confidential on his part. “I am
grateful to the university because
there has never been any pres-
sure to reveal the nature or
identity of the people who come
to see me.”

Dr. Worth said that students
come to him with a wide variety
of problems. Major categories are
pressure from academic or school
life, pressure from home, and
pressure from male peers or from
females.

His counseling also deals with

Thursday, February 21, 1974

A pha of Fancy Dress

Radio! Walter inchell introduc-
ed the Fancy ao Ball over
the nationwide Lucky Strike Net-
work Hookup. In that wonderful
deeade, the campus was to be
graced with the Faney Dress
appearances of Bernie Cummins,
Eddie Duchin, and Jean Goldhette
and his Victor Orechestra. Cum-
mins was so grateful to the school
that he dedicated one of his radio
shows to Washington and Lee. A
show on which he played the
Swing!

The end of the thirties couldn't
stop the Fancy Dress Ball. In
1940 Kay Kyser and his college
of Musical Knowledge appeared
on campus. The next year saw
Benny Goodman. Could anything
stop the Fancy Dress Ball?

World War II did. From 1944-
1946 no Fancy Dress appeared.

The ball returned in 1947. And
some are still talking about 1949’s
King Arthur theme.

And what about Mardi Gras,
the Mardi Gras theme? It’s been
here twice before: in 1954 and
in 1964. This being 1974, you may
see a pattern emerging.

In 1954, the ball was called the

”

“Rex Ba In 1964, “The Mardi
Gras,” 1954 s decorations tried to
“recreate the atmosphere of New
Orleans’ French Quarter during
the height of Mardi Gras.” In ’64
people were simply asked to wear
the kind of costumes found at
Mardi Gras.

It just depends on how you
word things.

The ball jumped with the times
in 1969. The theme was a love-in.
Everyone was requested to wear
“Tave beads and hippie apparel.”

1970's theme was Camelot, And
eniv in Camelot could that year’s
entertainment be paired: Glenn
Miller and the Friends of Dis-
tinction.

In 1971 Camelot was gone, With
a new semester set-up, Fancy
Dress was dead. Seemingly never
to rise again.

It Sha-na-naed to its feet the
next year, but without the spirit
of old. And last year’s Billy Pres-
ton attempt to give it life was
not very successful.

But now we come to this year,
and a real try at resuscitating the
grand old tradition. Can it be
done?

ist advises students

a wide variety of sexual prob-
lems. The intensity of the prob-
lem varies, from mild to acute
needs for counseling. He also does
marriage counseling. “I am will-
ing to talk to anyone who feels
he has a need to talk to me
about a mental or emotional prob-
lem,” he said.

Dr. Worth sees his practice ex-
panding into two areas; pre-
ventive mental health (as in com-
munication workshops and other
workshops for those who consid-
er themselves emotionally health),
and group counseling for people
who are dealing with personal
mental health problems. He also
said he was available for public
speaking to any group, public or
private.

Dr. Worth explained that he is
on call seven days a week, 24

 

le

 

 

 

STUDENT $8!

Make this your headquarters for Good Food

and Service

We have meal tickets at savings to you

SOUTHERN INN

>

 

 

 

Rours a day for a true emerg-
ency. He calls the definition of
emergency, “a matter of judg:
ment.”

Dr. Worth also teaches two
classes a year at W&L. He feels
that there has not been any con-
flict generated by coming into
contact with a student as a
teacher at the same time he is
counseling him.

He said, however, it takes all
of his professionalism to keep the
boundary between’ counseling
psychiatrist and social friends.

(Continued on page 8)

 

R/C Theatres
Regal Cinema Fare
in Lexington

State Theatre

12-14 W. Nelson St. 463-3424

ONE BIG WEEE

The Laughing
Policeman

Lyric Cinema

186 §Sialn 3S. 463-3543

NOW SHOWING

American Graffiti

 

 

 

 
Thursday, February 21, 1974 THE RING-TUM PHI Page 5
Senior faces hearing on forgery charge here

\ preliminary hearing is sched- name of the president of |
wed Feb. 26 for a Washington Upsilon, Koci’s former social fra-
and Lee senior arrested two _ ternity.
weeks ago on forgery charges. Koci was released on $3000

Henry Koci, 22, of Western bond. He is also free on bond on

ings, I]]., was arrested by Lex-- a forgery charge in Roanoke.
ington police in connection with Police there charged Koci with
the passing of a $400 forged two counts of forgery and one
check at the First National Ex- count of altering a driver’s license
change Bank in Lexington. Police following the passing of two f forg-
say the check bore the forged ed cheeks worth $200.

 

Psi

Second six-week geology courses begin

 

The following 2nd 6 week one Moon, I Hour, Tues., Feb. 19, 206
(

A typical Woods Creek apartment. credit Geology courses have com- Howe Hall; Geology 142—Fuel
enced as follows: Resources, D Hour, Tues., Feb.

Geology 120—The Descent of 19, 206 Howe Hall; Geology 1438—
Men, D Hour, Mon., Feb. 18, 206 Man and Nat. Resources, C Hour,

New housing expected Howe Hall; Geology 130—The Tues., Feb. 19, 305 New Science.
ready by September 1 _ Meeting scheduled to discuss new housing

general informational meet- new apartments and to have their

 

Editor’s note—This is the last rental fees. To date this con- ing concerning the new Univer- questions answered by University
in a series of articles on the struction has proceeded on sity apartment units, currently officials. Informational brochures
housing situation at Washing- schedule and the dorms should under construction in the Woods _ including floor plans, rental rates,
ton and Lee. This week, Tom be ready by September. Creek area and designed to ac-_ for 1974-75, will be distributed.
Rittenburg reports on the For this reason, the university ©"! 178 unmarried upper- The sign-up period for rooms
Woods Creek apartments cur- will olfee the wiadent the op- class and law students, will be and sign-up and rental procedures
rently under construction, yortunity to withdraw from his held in duPont Auditorium at in the new apartine nt facilities
By TOM RITTENBURG rental commitment and have his ° 2-™- Monday. for 1974-75 will begin on Febru-
Barring the ever-threatening $199 deposit/breakage fee return- : : : = = ee ee 2
“unforeseen circumstances,” the ed. This offer will be in effect This meeting will provide an_ in person to Mr. W. N. Mohler,

Voods Creek apartments wil] be unti the completion of the dorms. opportunity for W ashington and Assistant Director of University

‘eady for occupancy this Septem- Any student wishing to sign up nee students to learn about these §=Barvews, in Weenngion Mall 5.

oer. x a room may do so starting
The new upper-class and law ‘Tuesday. If you are i saste
Ss \ uesdé are interested
. , . = : COS6CSS6 O©OCCSCOHCHOOOEEEOOOOO®
student dorms will contain 178 see Mr. Mohler in Washington eececooeoe OFecooes ®

units divided into 40 apartments, Haj] 5.

§ FOR YOUR EXTRA PIECES OF FURNITURE
ranging from two _ three-student e
suites to twenty five-student =
suites. Each apartment will in- a Varner & Pole
°
e
*

 

clude a living room, a kitchen, a STOP!!
balcony, bathroom facilities, car- ask nit self
peting, and air _ conditioning. your ene

Furniture for the rooms will be

&
es
2
e
&
a
115 Main St. — Lexington, Va. .
&
*

 
 

provided. “Where Will I Be and What
The three-student suite will be Will I Be Doing 5 Years ° -

ihe most expensive at $750 an From Today if I Continue

academic year for each student What I Am Doing Now?”

(this includes all utilities) and We have 3 sales positions to

the semi-private bedrooms in fill which can develop into

some of the five-student suites MANAGEMENT for the right

will be the least expensive at person.

$650 a vear.

A single drawback darkens
an otherwise bright situation.
The University can not guaran-

@ Aiend 2 weeks Sales Train-
ing School at our Sales
Training Center, expenses
peid.

 

e us

 

tee completion of the dorms by @ Be guaranteed $800-$1000 a There’s a place for you on
next September. Students whe month to start .
wish to reserve a suite for gi be Meese Piedmont. For a weekend of
: pee @ Le given the opportunity
occupancy next year must be to advance rapidly into fun, a game out of town, a
able to find for themselves al- MANAGEMENT. _ quick trip home, whatever —
ternative housing for any in- there’ Pied :
terim period resulting from con- TO QUALIFY: es . ; - moat Jet OF
struction delays. If this situa- @ Must be sportsminded propjet flight to fit your
tion arises appropriate adjust. @ .\ge 21 or over plans. With personal,
ments will be made in the @ -\mbitious - dependable thoughtful service always
— @ High Schoo! Graduate or = ‘ 7
enone tan on geen atten Piedmont — serving over 75
@ Own good car cities including Chicago,
’ : J :
I’m Looking for People | .... ,.. dit eee ee New York, Washington, =
ae ifetime career opportunity Norfolk, Atlanta, Memphis...’
ho want extra money, who want with an international group Call {
spare-time businesses of their s xe eo oe us, or your travel agent.

of

: a companies. For personal ’
vn that won't upset family dut- = te peat Mee We've got a place for you.
ts : : and confidential interview,
ies. Find out how to qualify as

: ae 6
1 AVON Representative Call: piease send resume with both
me 4 ee home and school telephone

lumber. WRITE TODAY for

ry * e
Linda Lickliter ae ee Airlines
Call Collect re
703-885°5980

 

P.O. BOX 4613
RICHMOND, VA. 23229

 

 

 

 
Page 6

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

Thursday,

February 21, 1974

Generals up season record,
ast home game Saturday

By BILL FLESHER

In case you haven't noticed,
Washington and Lee’s basketball
Generals are doing what many
considered impossible — pulling

another winning season.

The Blue have upped their sea-
son mark to 10-11 at press time,
and can give Verne Canfield his
eighth straight winner with wins
in their final three games.

Under the circumstances a win-
ning season would be quite an ac-
complishment, especially when
you ey back at the General’s
dismal 2-7 record in mid-January.

The a for a winning
season looked shaky at times dur-
ing the past two weeks. However
W&L played two super second
halves to pull out wins over Lynch-
burg and York, gave fifth-ranked
O'd Dominion fits in Norfolk be-
fore losing by only nine, and did
what they had to in downing a
scrappy Emory and Henry outfit.

Lynchburg coach Wayne Profitt
(vou. remember him, he’s the
coach who’d rather beat W&L
than eat) didn’t want to face
reality after his Hornets took a
97-67 pounding from Wé&L in
Doremus Gym Feb. 5.

\V&L’s man-to-man defense took
the Hornets out of their offensive
patterns, caused numerous turn-
overs, and opened the way for the
Generals’ fast break, which didn’t
even exist in the first half.

Trailing 387-36 at intermission,
W&L ran lLynehburg off the
court in the second 20 minutes.

 

East Lexington
Grocery

Beer — Ice — Gas
Party Supplies — Snacks
Open 7 days a week
ABC No, 2078—8 a.m.-10 p.m.
SHOP FOR SUNDAY
EVENING DINNER
We Sell & Deliver Kegs

 

 

 

“ec

%

,
\¢
7,
st

Travel

The First National Bank :

“ of Lexington
= has special checking accounts for students
seerteoerfootooeoteerfeofofeogntoogoteogenfootteateotnteofenteoenteaecfoostoofoteetootcfoatsteofecteeteofnteofecteatetene

When the smoke had cleared, and
after the last of many whistles
(51 fouls were called) was sound-
ed, the Generals had gained re-
venge for the 81-78 loss suffered
in Lynchburg back in December.

The 61 second-half points
amounted to the highest one-half
output for W&L this season. John
Podgajnv led four W&L players
in double-figures with 20 points.
Fi Lichtivies added 17, Is 1
the second-half, while Jerry
Porath and Paul Maloney chipped
in 12 and 10 each.

\ a at

The Generals’ minds seemed to
be anywhere but Doremus Gym
Feb. 8 when a winless York Col-
lege squad invaded Lexington.

The Spartans, however, were
there in every way, and were out
for a win.

W&L again played a_ sloppy
first half, so sloppy that one had
to wonder if they would even
score against Old Dominion the
next night. Again they trailed at
halftime 39-33.

Whatever Canfield said in the
locker room had some effect, as
a totally different ball club ap-
peared for the second half.
Though not at their sharpest, the
Generals played solidly in the
second half, working the fast
break to produce 60 points in the
final period,

York gutted it out, but couldn’t
hold down W&L’s fast break, and
returned home still winless, the
final score 93-77.

Lichtfuss led all scorers with 27

Paul’s Bike Shop

11 N. New St., Staunton
Phone 886-1310
PAUL Now Accepting All
BIKE REPAIRS at
Sears’ Lexington Store

Pick-Up Every Wednesday
Returned On Wednesday.
Also New 10 Speeds Batavus
Bikes For Sale.

se seobstotestefetsftefeoooeofsfnoofnfntestentestestetestententetestentesteteobobobobobobbetetetetetete

Merherfe fe nfo ofe rhe fe

Youth Fares to Europe!

SEE LEXINGTON’S

21 W. Washington
for information
0000000000888 000000809008880888H8S88S8888280888

points. Guy Kerr added 16, while
Greg Croghan tallied 13 for the
Generals.
H ms a

Almost 5,000 fans filled the Old
Dominion Fieldhouse Feb. 9 for
a variety of events — Alumni
Homecoming, Joel Copeland night,
and the Big Blue’s rout of W&L.

They got events one and two,
but the Generals were uncoopera-

 

tive in giving the fans number
three.

W&L gave the fifth-ranked
Monarchs all they could handle
before falling, 74-65. And, if a
few shots had gone in instead of
bouncing around and out, it could
have been...

The Generals were never out
of it, though they did trail by as

(Continued on page 7)

Sophomore Paul Maloney looks for room to drive as the Generals
continue to inch toward the 500 mark for the season. The Generals
play their final home game Saturday.

Dry Cleaning

Linen Service

WE DELIVER

Storage & Free Moth Proofing

—Photo by Robinson

UNIVERSITY
CLEANERS

Reliable Service In

Shirts Laundered

Clothing Repair

463-3622

sae ee ne neentatnnt

 
Thursday, February 21, 1974

A man called Cosell

By BILL AUSTIN
Ring-tum Phi Sports Editor
The times are strange indeed.

f examples to support this claim

are needed, cast a furtive glance

at this past weekend’s college
basketball scores, and gawk at
the defeats which have loosened
the West Coast’s grip upon top
rankings. Better yet, scan reput-
able best-seller lists, and discover

a sportscaster’s recollections a-

mong the current giants of non-

fictional literature.

The coin-collecting book is
Howard Cosell’s aptly titled Co-
sell, a work which combines auto-
biographical insights with hope-
fully controversial opinions about
the game and figures of sport.

NOTICE

Due to rising student complaints
about the availability of Doremus
Gym facilities, and the need to
cut down on equipment and
locker room theft, all persons us-

ing Doremus must present a
Washington and Lee identifica-

tion card before they will be ad-
mitted.

On weekends and in the eve-
ning after 6 p.m. only the main
door leading to the athletic de-
partment offices will be open. All

other doors will be locked.
If you have lost your ID card
ehneck with Dean John’s office

avout securing a replacement.

=

Cosell’s themes are few, yet per-
sistent.

Included is his absessive yearn-
ing to become more than merely
another likeable, predictable
broadcaster, one offering verbal
pablum to hordes of complacent
fans. Then there is his remembr-
ance of the early TV years of
his career, when powerful ABC
executives conspired to keep his
assured smirk and barbed tongue
off the air.

Quite simply, Howard Cosell
fancies himself a crusader, one
who has abbrasively upheld the
integrity of his convictions in the
face of stormy protests. Finally,
as in any success story, there is
the elevation to Tube stardom.
Due credit is given to his drawl-
ing foil, Meredith, but the ob-
servant reader never forgets that
Mr. Cosell knows the game.

Is it a bit disturbing that a
shrewd, articulate TV color man
and boxing analyst can transform
his cocation into an activity of
self-acknowledged courage? Upon
this question rests a portion of
any reader’s enjoyment, and much
of Cosell’s credibility. Not that
the author has any doubts. At
one point, he mentions a desire
to serve in the United States
Senate.

Polities aside, Cosell is at his
best when he journalistically pe-
ruses the sporting scene. His
summaries of recent Olympics

(Continued on page 8)

OPEN

 

“nn Country Restaurant

Route 60—West

Monday-Thursday

9-10

Friday-Saturday-Sunday 9-Midnight

BREAKFAST — LUNCH —

PIZGGA

 

  
 
 
  

For

SB

KEYBET-GENERAL °
Restaurant and Motel

Truly One of the South’s Finest
Superb Dining and

 

 

DINNER

tu GW.

Phone 463-7810

 

   
 

Picturesque Atmosphere.

Serving Food in the

Fine Tradition of Virginia.
Reservations Phone 463-2143
Complete Facilities for J:

Banquets, Weddings & Receptions
; *, One Mile West of Lexington on U.S. 60

f
%
e A

Mg

THE RING-TUM PHI

Page 7

 

Generals move toward .500 record

(Continued from page 6)
many as 15 late in the game.

Employing a tight man-to-man
defense, W&L took away the fear-
ed ODU fast break, and even
showed Monarch coach Sonny
Allen a few things about “run-
ning and gunning.”

Wé&L trailed by only one at
halftime (33-32). In facet, they
led for several brief preiods in
the first half.

Lichtfuss scored 26 _ points,
grabbed 11 rebounds, had four
steals, and did a superb defensive

job on All-American candidate
Copeland. Copeland, for whom
ODU turned on the ceremonies,

got 22 points, five below his aver-

age,

W&L again inched closer to the
elusive .600 mark last Wednes-
day with a 74-61 win over Emory
and Henry.

The win was the first road vic-
torv for the Generals this season.
W&L had come up short six times
previous on foreign hardwood in
1973-74.

Lichtfuss again paced W&L
scorers with 22 points, while
Podgajny added 18.

W&L started toward Farmville
Saturday afternoon for a rematch
with Hampden-Sydney. However
the roads were a bit too slick to
travel due to a heavy snow, So,
the game was postponed until
Monday, Feb. 25.

W&L carried a 10-11 slate into
last night’s game with the Uni-
versity of Pittsburgh-Johnstown.
Up and coming are Saturday’s
home finale with Grove City Col-
lege (Doremus Gym, 8 p.m.) and
the rescheduled Hampden-Sydney
rematch next Monday.

Wrestlers fall to 7-9-1

The Washington and Lee
wrestlers saw their record dip
below the .500 level for the first
time last week by losing a pair
of dual meets.

The Generals are now 7-9-1
after losing close meets Saturday
to Virginia Commonwealth 24-18
and Frostburg 26-41. -Wé&L's
wrestlers showed the effects of
last Thursday’s Virginia College
Athletic Association (VCAA) tour-
nament, in which they placed
second among seven teams. Team
Captain Doug Ford won the state
championship at 167 pounds.

 

Hamric and Sheridan
JEWELERS
Watch and Jewelry Repair
Hand Engraving & Class Rings
463-2022

 

 

 

Coach Gary Franke’s team
wrestled at Virginia Wednesday
night in University Hall follow-
ing the UVa-Clemson basketball
game, and W&L will be host to
N.C. State and Maryville Satur-
day, beginning at noon in Dore-
mus Gymnasium,

 

Wendell’s —
Barber Shop —

OPEN 9-6

9 South Jefferson

 

Closed Wednesday

  

Washington and Lee University
Bonkstore

Book Bargains
REMAINDERS
CLEARANCE
FABULOUS BUYS

SOSCCOOSSSOSHSEOSSSOSHSEE'SOSSSSCHOSHECCGESSESCSESEEECESEES
Page 8

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

Swimmers sink in state meet, finish sixth place

In the Virginia State Swim
meet, held last Thursday, Friday
and Saturday at Old Dominion
University, W&L’s swimmers
finished a rather disappointing
sixth place in a field of eight
competing schools. Only the host
Monarchs and Lynchburg College
trailed the Generals in point
totals amassed for the lengthy
affair.

For the fourth consecutive sea-
son, U.Va. captured top team
honors, though the Cavaliers were
hard pressed by a surprising VCU

SENIORS
Caps and gowns must be order-
ed today or Friday in the Co-op
between 11:30 a.m. and 1:30 p.m.
Rental fee is $6.50.

 

LOST—A female mixed German
Shepard. White with black
sides; N.Y. rabies tag. Hind leg
dewclaws. Please call 463-9529.

 

OMI IOOEOOE Pitas reeeeeeey

LOWEST
JET FARES
TO EUROPE

of any scheduled airline .
from from
NEW YORK | CHICAGO

‘187 |*228

One way to Luxembourg
through May 31

Effective for individuals
on scheduled jets to Lux-
embourg in the heart of
Europe. SAVE $72 to $101
on overseas stays of over
45 days against lowest
comparable fares of any
other scheduled airline.

SHOW INITIATIVE!
SAVE MORE MONEY!

Students can arrange their
own Affinity Groups of 25
or more passengers and
qualify for Icelandic’s low-
est-cost one-way affinit
fares. No other airline of-
fers one-way affinity fares.
SAVE via Icelandic no mat-
ter when you leave or how
long you stay.

SEE YOUR TRAVEL AGENT.
Prices subject to change.
To: Icelandic Airlines

630 Sth Ave., N.Y., N.Y. 10020
(212) 757-8585

Send folder CN on Lowest
Youth Fares to Europe [J

Ieee Tes "eTe elelslelele l+leleleleD oeteererecedeteteedetetereceteceleceteteceresedececeseeseaege PRP R OOOO

Name

Street

City
ee

My travel agent is

ICELANDIC
“AIRLINES

 

 

bunch, Following these top two
units were, in order, William and
Mary, Richmond and VMI.

For W&L, Tad Van Lier man-
aged a third place finish in the
100-vard free-style event, the top
General performance of the meet.
In addition, he captured a sixth
in the 200-yard free-style (his
first effort at that distance this
season) and a ninth in the 50-
vard free-style, an effort hurt by
two bad starts.

Robbie Searles also performed
notably, nabbing a pair of fourths
in the 100 and 200-yard  back-
strokes, and a seventh in the 200-
vard individual medley.

Porter McNeil dropped 10 sec-
onds from his previous best time
to capture seventh in the 500-
yard free-style, while Bill Tiers
garnered a tenth place finish in
the same event.

For the Generals, the meet
closed the 1975-74 season on a
less than satisfying note. No
swimmers qualified time-wise for
this year’s National competition.

The team’s 6-3 won-lost mark,
though a respectable achievement
in this, a tough winter season for
W&L sports, was nevertheless
tainted by defeat at the hands of
arch-rival VMI in a mid-season
encounter. To be sure, a measure
of pride was reclaimed in the im-
pressive triumph over William
and Marv a few weeks ago.

Thursday,

February 21, 1974

Quartet here Friday

The Fine Arts String Quartet,
one of America’s foremost groups
of its type, will present a con-
cert Friday in Lee Chapel.

The 8 p.m. program is sponsor:
ed by the Washington and Lee
Concert Guild.

All faculty members and _ art-
ists-in-residents at the University
of Milwaukee, the musicians have
performed extensively in Europe
and America, and they appear
frequently on both commercial
and public television.

The Quartet’s Lexington con-
cert will feature the music of
Haydn, Lutostowsky and Bartok.

In addition to its extensive
touring activity, the Fine Arts
Quartet has established an an-
nual concert series in Chicago

which has become one of Ameri
ca’s most significant sounding
hoards for chamber music. Its
“Summer Evenings of Music”
series in Milwaukee has attracted
artists from throughout the coun-
Ley,

The performers use rare and
exquisite antique instruments—a
243-vear-old first violin made by
Guarnerius del Gesu, a 204-year-
old second violin by Balestrieri,
a 226-vear-old viola crafted by
Carcassi in Florence, and a 243-
vear-old Venetian cello made by
Goffriller.

DO TiC £
There will be a Phi staff
meeting today at 4:30 p.m. in
the University Center,

Lecture on art collection scheduled

A lecture on art prints by the
print expert for  Baltimore’s
Tomlinson Collection will be de-
livered Monday, Feb. 25 at Wash-
ington and Lee University.

The lecture, “How to Recognize
Original Prints,” will be given
by Robert Woodside at 12:30 p.m.
and again at 1:30 p.m. in du-
Pont Auditorium. The W&L art
department invites members of
the public to attend.

Woodside will use a collection
of original prints to illustrate his

A man called Cosell

(Continued from page 7)
prick forgetful minds with mem-
ories of rare moments of interna-
tional harmony as experienced at
Mexico City in 1968, and of Mu-
nich’s tragic mood in 1972.

MCAT - DAT - GRE
LSAT - ATGSB
NAT'L. BDS.

@ Preparation for tests required
for admission to graduate and
professional schools

@ Six and twelve session courses

@ Small groups

@ Voluminous material for home
study prepared by experts in
each field

@ Lesson schedule can be tailor-
ed to meet individual needs.

 

Classes Now Forming

Stanley H. Kaplan
Educational Center

MD, — D.C, — VA.
(301) 530-0211
530-8718 (after six)
The Tutoring School with
the Nationwide Reputation

Lessons Through Education
SINCE 1938

 

The pages devoted to boxers
may comprise Cosell’s finest writ-
ing. His long-term friendship with
Muhammad Ali is rehashed along
with his championing of Ali’s
legal innocence in the days when
such a stance was immensely un-
popular. Joe Frazier is viewed
respectfully: a simple, brave man
who has resented Ali’s sway over

the populace.

George Foreman, it seems, was
a Cosell “find”, having gained his
attention with a display of con-
siderable skills in the 1968 Olymp-
ics. Yes, Humble Howard even
proclaimed Frazier’s dethroning
before Foreman met and belted
him in January, 1973.

Cosell’s attitude toward Floyd
Patterson proves particularly in-
teresting, disturbing. He called
himself a staunch Patterson fan
in the early stages of his boxing
career, and even held a persona!
friendship with the moody, com-
pina fighter. Yet, after Patter-
son’s humiliating losses to Liston,
when he had fallen from title
contention status to that of an
aging, oft’ beaten has-been, Pat-
terson became for Cosell a con-
temptible figure, wallowing in
self-martyrization and sympathy.

Other figures also taste the
author’s ire. He labels Casey
Stengel “rude, crude, and uncul-
tured.” Sonny Liston, apparently
not spared by death, was “a bad
apple ...a cheap and ugly bully
without morality.” Not surpris-
ingly, neither man was especially
enamored with Cosell, either.

lectures. The audience will have
the opportunity to examine the
prints individually, and a ques.
tion-and-answer session wil] also
take place.

Students pass amendment

(Continued from page 1)
criticized the “totally undemo-
cratic” process of counting votes
before the election was concluded.

Along the same lines, one EC
member raised objections to last
issue’s Ring-tum Phi letter en-
titled “The EC’s Side.” He felt
that it made the EC look as if
it was fighting the amendment.

As a solution to the problem
surrounding the election, never:
theless, it was brought up that a
committee be appointed in order
to work on the problems and re-
port their results back to the EC
on Feb, 25

Psychologist available

(Continued from page 4)

Dr. Worth is carrying out ex.
periments now with the Psycho-
logica Stress Evaluator, which
measures stress in the human
voice. For this purpose he has

received a Sloan Research Grant

He and his lab assistant, Mr.
Bernie Lewis, a senior psychology
major at W&L, are contributing
some original research to this
field.

Dr. Worth encourages students
to come to his office, on the first
floor of the Student Center and
“walk in if the door is open. If
the door is closed, sign the
schedule sheet on my door for an
hour or a half-hour with any
initials you choose to use.” His
phone is extension 282, and he
can be contacted through the uni-
versity receptionist at extension
299. He again expressed the ab-
solute confidentiality of his help,
and said that the purpose of his
couseling is “to facilitate prol
lem solving, to promote a greater
sense of satisfaction in living and
to reduce painful emotions such
as depression and anxiety.”

hace

‘ct el nl

 

 

i

 

 

 

 
The Ring-tum Phi

Washington and Lee University’s Weekly Newspaper

 

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA, FEBRUARY 28, 1974

Number 18

 

Who painted Old George? At press time, the search was continu-
ing for the culprits who smeared the Washington statue with
bright blue paint last weekend,

 

 

 

 

 

Dr. Henry Stoutte Roberts,
professor of biology and de-
partment head at Washington
and Lee, died last Thursday
in a Roanoke hospital. He was
60. Funeral services were held
Saturday.

Dr. Roberts was a _ widely
known authority in the field

of cytokinesis, the changes
which occur in protoplasm

during cell division.

He joined Washington and
Lee’s faculty in 1964, after 18
vears at Duke University. At
the time he left Duke for W&L
he was director of graduate
studies in zoology.

He is survived by his wife,
\nne Houle Roberts, whom he
married in 1943, and by two
sons, Henry S. Roberts III of
Seattle and Frederick E. Rob-

erts, a graduate student in di-
vinity at Duke.

As biology head he reorgan-
ized the department’s course
offerings substantially. The
vear he arrived at W&L, the
department offered 16 courses;
it now offers 28, including an
innovative series of six short
advanced seminars. He also
developed an arrangement
with Duke’s Marine Labora-
tory to permit W&L biology
and chemistry students to
study marine science there
during the spring term.

He was graduated with hon-
ors from Mercer University
and received the Ph.D. in
zoology from Duke,

Dr. Roberts was an enthusi-
astic and exacting but highly
popular teacher at W&L.

 

 

 

Who painted
old George?

By JESS REEVES

The statue of George atop
Washington Hall was painted
bright blue on Saturday night
of Faney Dress Weekend. The
culprits are currently still at
large, but the names of four
probable suspects have been
given to the Student Control Com-
mittee. A night watchman caught
the students at one point but they
escaped.

According to President Hunt-
ley this job compares favorably
to past ones. The last time the
statue Was painted was in 1958
and President Huntley feels that
once every 16 years is probably
2snough,

The authorities only have a
vague idea of how the feat was
accomplished. Those responsible
might have entered Robinson
Hall and gone to the tthird floor
to reach the roof. Once on top
of Washington Hall a ladder with
a center extension could have

been used to allow one person
to climb up to the staute.
When the statue was first

erected in the early 1840’s stu-
dents made a habit of painting
it. Until 1937 the statue could be
reached from the inside of Wash-
ington Hall which made the stunt
somewhat easier than it is to-
day. Traditionally the statue was
painted bright blue by the fresh.

men, VMI cadets also liked to
paint George and usually used
their school clolors, red and yel-

low,

In 1949, when the statue was
finally scraped, the chips came
off in layers an inch and a
quarter thick. Estimates of ths
number of coats of paint run as
high as 125 layers or more.

This year Fancy Dress was
reinstated with much of tka
glamour of yesteryear. Some

traditions of the school returned
for the weekend, just long enough:
for someone to paint old George

Petitions due Monday
for top EC offices

By ROBERT PUGH

Elections for student body
president, vice-president, and
secretary are scheduled for Mon-
day, March 11.

All candidates desiring their
names on the ballot should sub-
mit petitions with 150 signa-
tures to the EC box by mid-
night, Monday, March 4, All
candidates should be at the EC
meeting 6:30 p.m. Monday and
should have an article of no
more than 250 words for the
newspaper by Tuesday noon in
the EC box.

There will be a general as:
sembly Thursday, March 7, at 7
p.m. with speeches and a ques:
tion and answer session by the
various candidates, all of whom
are expected to attend.

Student Activities Board Chair-
man Mike Brittin announced that
1,700 people attended Fancy
Dress. He considered the affair
a great success.

The EC discussed the Faculty
Ad Hoe Committee on Discipline
report. The report proposes aboli-
tion of the Student Affairs Com-
and establishment of a
subcommittee of the University
Council to handle appeals from

nittee

the Student Control Committee
and the Interfraternity Council.
Concern was expressed at the
meeting about the dissolution of
SAC and the method of selecting
student members for the appeals
board. The report calls for ap-
pointment by the entire UC of
the three student and two faculty
members.

Curriculum Committee Chair-
man Herbie Rubenstein brought
his committee’s revised curricu-
lwm survey back to the EC,
which endorsed it. If the faculty
approves, 10 minutes of class
time Wednesday, March 13, and
Thursday, March 14, will be de-
voted to answering the survey.

In other business, the EC en-
dorsed plans for a one day ex-
tension of the spring break and
appointed junior Jack Parks to
the Library Committee,

CONTACT SCHEDULE

Monday—columnist Art Buch-
wald, 8 p.m., Lee Chapel; Wed-
nesday — musical group Oregon,
8:30 p.m., Lee Chapel; Thursday—
Ovegon, 2-6 p.m., Fairfax Lounge;
director William
Friedkin, 8 p.m., State Theater.
See story, page 7.

Thursday —
THE RING-TUM PHI

 

Changing t
anging the spring break

The University Council, charged with maintenance of the school
calendar, meets today at 7:30 p.m. in the Executive Committee room
of the University Center.

One issue scheduled to come before that body today is the pos-
sible change of the dates of the spring break. Specifically, classes
are scheduled to begin Monday, April 15, which means students
will be coming back on Sunday, April 14, (which, by the way, is
Easter Sunday, to whom it may concern).

The arguments for a change in the schedule this time are much
stronger than they were for the winter break two weeks ago. And
the arguments to keep the schedule unchanged are much weaker.

First and foremost is the gasoline shortage. It’s getting more
and more difficult to buy gas on Sundays, or on any day, for that
matter. Fewer and fewer stations are staying open on Sundays.

Anyone living more than a gas tank away just isn’t going to make
ti back here on a Sunday. And by April 14, shutting down service
stations may not just be voluntary any longer. Consider, too, that
April 14 is a holiday.

Also, one problem that existed when the UC considered chang-
ing the winter break is not a factor at this time. In all likelihood,
nobody has as yet made his spring break “plans” as far as buying
plane tickets and other travel paraphernalia are concerned. Thus, a
change in the schedule now would not stand to ruin anyone’s vaca-
tion plans at this time.

Furthermore, the problem with labs with which Dean Watt so
superbly confused and stifled the rest of the UC in discussing a
winter break change doesn’t hamper a change in the spring break.
We won’t go into details explain the lab problems which were in-
volved with the winter br&ik. We will, however, venture to guess
that such “problems” could be averted after the spring break by
either doubling up classes on one day or by holding classes on one
Saturday.

Indeed, there is but one problem involved with changing the
spring break schedule, and that is getting the UC to be responsive
to student needs. We suggest to those interested that they attend
the meeting today, that they let he UC know what they want.

—P.J.L.

Fancy Dress lives again

Much like the phoenix out of the ashes, Fancy Dress was reborn
out of faded memories of the past last weekend as good times re-
urned to Washington and Lee.

From the Emerald City Saloon to the dumping of a pitcher of
beer on University President Robert Huntley, the affair was, well,
memorable, to say the least. But to be a bit more descriptive, it
was the biggest event to hit this campus in years.

Need more be said? —P.J.L.

Hiring a lawyer for the students

Despite what one may read in this column almost weekly, the
Executive Committee is not always a target worthy of the Phi’s inky
59ison barbs. In fact, the EC, Washington and Lee’s answer to the
Dirty Dozen, sometimes can come up with a brilliant idea or two.

One of those ideas is the hiring of a lawyer to provide legal
advice for students and student organizations. The EC is currently
discussing the possibility of hiring such a lawyer to be paid for
with student body funds.

The plan, if adopted, would not go into effect until next year.
And the lawyer could only advise; after the advice, a student would
have to go out and hire his own lawyer. .

The possibilities are almost limitless. Students would particularly
benefit in such areas as obtaining advice about civil suits, traffic
violations, and even drug laws. And student organizations, too, could
benefit from a little legal advice when needed.

We hope the EC carries through this idea as far as it is able.
The students have a psychologist and a psychiatrist for advice of
the mind; they have doctors available for advice of the body; there’s
even a university chaplain for advice of the spirit. Why not, then,
-lawver for advice of the societal man?

—P.J.L.

THE RING-TUM PHI

The Ring-tum Phi is published on Thursdays during the college year.
It is printed by the Journalism Laboratory Press, Washington and Lee
University. The mailing address is Box 899, Lexington, Virginia 24450.
Entered as second class matter September 29, 1946, at the Post Office,
Lexington, Virginia 24450, under the act of March 3, 1879. Subscription
rates: $6.00 for the school year, $3.00 for the semester.

ANDREW J. A. CHRISS
Business Manager

PAUL J. LANCASTER
Editor-in-chief

Managing Editor ........-sssseereeee ence eee eereneerenes Jess Reeves

 

Thursday, February 28, 1974

     

Haywood Hale Broun shared his sports reporting experiences Mon-
day with Washington and Lee students as part of Contact ‘74.
Columnist Art Buchwald appears Monday, the musical group Oregon
Wednesday and Thursday, film director William Friedkin Thurs-
day as part of Contact. See story, page 7. .—Photo by Bill Robinson

Ask Traveller

Q—I think you are a pervert. Why don’t vou stuff your stupid advice
column in your mouth and shove your head into a Hefty bag?

 

A—Are you kidding? You must think I’m perverted or something.

Listen, intolerant ideas like yours downgrade everything
decent and fair, not only in this country but at most participat-
ing Gulf dealers as well. No wonder they don’t give away those
cute beachballs anymore.

Historically, it was just this sort of fanatical hatred that led
to the witch-burning in Salem, even though Cotton Mather had
said they were too green and that the weanies would brown
quicker with just ordinary twigs and a little kerosene.

The Bible contains dozens of clear examples of your narrow-
mindedness and deceit: Lot asking his wife to pass the salt; Moses
posing as an Egyptian life-guard at the Red Sea Beach; Herod
signing the first bonus baby in spring training; St. Paul’s mother
forcing him to endorse her fish-sticks on radio.

Believe me, you're not the first student to question my advice
yy give naughty threats of reprisal for taking it. Why, just last
week, a voice over the telephone said that if I ever hoped to
see $50,000 again (as if I’ve ever seen $50,000 to begin with),
I'd better put my roommate in a brown paper bag and drop him
ff the footbridge at midnight...and no cops, or else, the voice
said it would spend all the money on pantyhose in Leggett’s
lingerie department. And at the Pavilion over Fancy Dress week-
end, I was forced to masquerade as a goat skin full of grain
punch because two Delts said if they caught me there they’d wrap
a Maryland license plate around my head and throw me in the
crease... whatever that meant. And if that wasn’t enough, some
sillv girl from Madrid kept tipping my head back and shouting:
“Vino from the old country.”

But I refuse to be intimidated by obscene minds, no matter
how much I admire them. The pen is mightier than the sword,
and so are six Yale locks on my apartment front door, disguised
as mailmen. I dare the most vile thug on campus to shake my
courage—or my hand, for that matter. Thank goodness this
column’s anonymous, even if I’m not Palmer Trice.

Q—Why don’t you pack up and leave town, you pervert?

A—I would but I can’t see with this Hefty bag over my head.

 

 
Thursday, February 28, 1974

THE RING-TUM PHI

Page 3

 

Duties of EC president outlined

With petitions due for Execu-
tive Committee positions next
Monday, the Ring-tum Phi pre-
sents letters from three know-
ledgeable sources (a university
president, a dean of students,
and a former EC president) on
the duties of the Executive
Committee and of the student
body president. Besides Lawr-
ence, three other past and pres-
ent EC presidents — Doug
Schwartz, Bob Brennan, Steve
Robinson — submitted letters
which we are unable to run
due to lack of space.

President Huntley

It has traditionally been true at
Washington and Lee that a large
measure of responsibility is dele-
gated to student government. The
position of a student body officer
has thus always been a busy and
important one. However, my own
observation is that in recent years
the duties and_ responsibilities
have increased.

This increase is attributable to
several factors, some formal or
organizational and some informal.
Many of these formal factors
have come into being in recent
vears. For example, students serve
on at least eight standing com-
mittees whic ha decade ago were
entirely faculty or administration
committees. In addition, there are
several important all-student com-
mittees which have come about
in the last ten years, such as the
Student Control Committee, the
Student Activities Board, the Stu-
dent Recruitment Committee, and
the Student Curriculum Commit-
tee. And, of course, the Univer-
sity Council was created three
vear's ago and has become an im-
portant part of University gov-
ernance,

The Student Body Executive
Committee, and student body
officers, and especially the EC
president are expected not only
to play a role in appointing many
of the student representatives on
these committees but also in
maintaining close communication
and familiarity with their work.
1 and other administrators and
faculty members rely heavily on

the elected student body repre-
sentatives—and, again, particul-
arly the EC present for student
information.

The EC president has specific
duties which alone consume much
of his time and energy. He, of
course, presides at weekly EC
meetings and co-chairs monthly
meetings of the University Coun-
cil. In addition, he attends twice
monthly meetings of the Student
Affairs Committee. Three times a
year he participates in meetings
of the University Board of Trus-
tees. He also assists and takes
part in such programs as fresh-
man orientation and _ Parents’
Weekend. And these are only a
few examples.

The administration of the
Honor System falls entirely on
the EC and is its single most im-
portant function. The Honor Sys-
tem must require many days of
time each year for every member
of the committee. Again, the EC
president presides and plays a
major role.

To all this must be added the
responsibility of remaining “in
touch” with the student body
and with the administration and
faculty in more informal ways. In
my opinion this responsibility is
second in importance only to the
administration of the Honor Sys-
tem, because without it the other
more formal duties become mere
hollow routine,

R.E.R.H.

Fran Lawrence

My immediate predecessor as
Executive Committee president
demonstrated that a person can
be both a distinguished scholar
and an excellent student leader.
A well-motivated person can do
a good job both as student and
student body president and learn
a great deal in the experience.
I would argue, however, that it
can be an equally fulfilling and
perhaps more interesting experi-
ence for the less motivated stu-
dent.

There are a great many activi-
ties requiring the time and energy
of the student body president,
some more important than others.

WEL to offer course in

By JESS REEVES

At the last faculty meeting sev-
eal courses were approved by
the faculty as additions to the
curriculum, Some appear promis-
ing, some, scholarly, and some,
ridiculous.

Elementary and
Japanese will be offered next
vear. One can easily see the
validity of such courses. The his-
tory department has come up
with a worthwhile course in “The
Papacy since the Schism.” But,
the art department suggested a
course titled “Introduction to
Crafts.”

intermediate

The description of this offer-
ing which the faculty approved
is as follows: Technique and skills
in glass blowing, ceramics, metal
smithing and leather smithing.
One may regret that the art de-
partment did not suggest a course
in basket weaving for the faculty
to bless. At least that would
have potential value for the stu-

dent fated to become blind in
later years.
If hobbies are to become

courses of study at Washington
and Lee then mechanics should
also be included in the curri-
culum. Then one interested in

Largely, there are meetings, and
more meetings. But the real ex-
citement is the unlimited number
of meaningful, slightly less mean-
ingful, and practically meaning-
less pursuits a person can attach
himself to under the guise of
student body president.

In addition to handling the im-
portant and rewarding functions
of the Honor System and admini-
stration of student activities,
there are limitless other roles a
person can undertake. With a
little imagination, a person can
view himself as chief negotiator
between town and gown, as good-
will ambassador, as hustler, pro-
moter, and general handyman, in
addition to serving as director of
the board and defender of the
faith. Activities can be conjured
up to fill almost every waking
hour.

This seems to me one of the
jovs of being student body presi-
dent. It is, however, one of the
pitfalls as well. The rude awaken-
ing comes when the faculty re-
ports on your academic progress.
Hopefully, you have saved for a
rainy day. And, happily, spring
rolls around and you are a lame
duck, paddling around Indian
Hole sipping a cold beer.

As a last gesture, you can pull
vour short term grade up to a
commendable average, and, after
making a few terse and witty
comments at graduation, vou slip
into oblivion. All in all, a grand
experience.

Dean John

Since 1963 when I first return-
ed to Washington and Lee, and
especially since 1969 when I
began working closely with the
Executive Committee in my Ca-
pocity as Dean of Students, the
duties and responsibilities assum-
ed by student government on this
campus have increased signific-
antly. Any student who is con-
sidering entry into the field for
an EC position should be fully
aware of these heavy responsibili-
ties and the concomitant demands
which will be made upon his time;
these demands often interfere
both with his academic course

work and with his “down-the-

road” social schedule.

Two areas deserve specific men:
tion. Responsibilities for Honor
System policy and administration
remain paramount. The student
body as a whole sees only the
“tip of the iceberg” involving
vearly evaluation of overall
Honor System effectiveness and.
occasional notices on the ODK
board concerning students who
have been found guilty of specific
violations. Also important and
extremely time-consuming are the
much more frequent investiga-
tions of possible violations report-
ed to the EC, preliminary hear-
ings, and the EC trials them-
selves, only a small percentage
of which result in convictions.

The trend in the past five years
which has been most noticeable
and striking to me has been the
more active and effective involve-
ment of the EC in matters of
general University interest and.
policy. Prominent this year have
been EC considerations of the
fine arts, expanded programs of
student activities, and student
health services. In addition, the
EC carries out much of this in-
volvement through the appoint-
ment and supervision of a num-
ber of all-student committees, as
well as the recommendation of
students to serve on standing Uni-
versity committees, as discussed
by President Huntley elsewhere
in this issue.

The position of EC president is
a particularly responsible demand-
ing, and time-consuming job. Not
only must he do everything other
EC members are expected to do,
but he carries many additional
responsibilities (See President
Huntley’s letter).

A pressing need for the new
EC, in my opinion, will be to
explore various alternatives for
delegation of some of the presi-
dential responsibilities to other
EC members in an attempt to
lighten his extremely heavy load,
but whatever is done can result
in only a marginal reduction in
the demands on his time and
energies. The position by its very
nature is one that involves an
extraordinary degree of personal
sacrifice. L.G.J.

arts and crafts

vocational and technical training
could get a degree from W&L
which would suit him to a posi-
tion as a grease monkey in
Goshen, Virginia.

By next spring the results of
the approval of this course should
be readily apparent. Coeds will
be able to stroll across campus
with their beaded handbags fresh
out of the workroom of duPont.
Others will be able to proudly
wear belts stamped with their
initials that they made a special!
project for Art 216.

The argument might be ad-
vanced that the minor arts were

among the finest in ancient
Greece. Hopefully, a W&L gradu-

ate will not have spent his
educational career preoccupied
with minor topics. There are

more valuable ways for students
to spend the small amount of
time alloted them at this uni-
versity than making crude
ceramic vases.

ATTENTION SENIORS

Today is the last day to order
caps an dgowns and graduation
announcements. Orders will be
taken in the Co-op from 11:30
a.m. to 2 p.m. Rental fee is $6.50.
age 4

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

Eclectic electric

By W. PATRICK HINELY

Fearless

United Artists UAS-5562
Bandstand

United Artists UAS-5644
It’s Only a Movie
United Artists UA-LA181-F

The recently announced dis-
banding of the English band
“Family” proves beyond the
shadow of a doubt that good
things don’t last forever. Though
their passing is not quite of the
magnitude of the Beatles break-
ing up, it is worth noting, for
the lyrics and music of Family
would easily outdo the work of
the Beatles, collectively or indi-
vidually, hands down to anyone
but the most simple-minded list-
ener.

The best way I can think of
to put it is that the Beatles had
depth to their work, but hid it
under a candy-coating for AM
radio. Family, on the other hand,
wore their frustrations and more
complex feelings of joy on their
sleeves, as it were. And their
music is infinitely more interest-
ing, requiring more than passing
attention to derive the full en-
jovment of listening to it.

Though they were big-time in
England, on an equal par with
the Stones or the Who, Family
never quite broke big in the U.S.
They were never given much
promotion, and some kind of per-
sonal conflicts with Bill Graham
on their first U.S. tour didn’t help
much, either. They have several
albums older than the three I’m
dealing with in this review, but
some are out of print, and others
were never released in the States.

What we do have, though, in
these three are Family’s strong-
est works. The writing team of
Roger Chapman, vocalist, and
Charlie Whitney, guitarist, is re-
markably versatile within a basic
rock game. They write in a some-
what literary style, ranging from
stream-of consciousness impres-
sions of some given moment, as
in “Coronation” on Bandstand to
a carefully woven story like
“Buffet Tea for Two” on the
Movie album.

They also have an extremely
powerful ability to bust someone
right in the gut, no holds barred,
like in “Ready to Go,” from Band-
stand. The often boring high
volume electric techniques of
rock’n’raunch are used artfully to
reinforce the lyrics. Whitney was
experimenting with licks on the
twin-neck while McLaughlin was
just getting his Mahavishnu
Orchestra together. The music
and the words fit together in a
kind of yin-yang relationship,
especially on songs like “Broken
Nose,” another masterpiece from
Bandstand, What they did, basi-
cally, was to expand on a style of
writing started by Dylan through
sophisticating the music and
simplifying the onslaught of
lvries, as with:

I see her everyday now

And boy has she got Class

She got diamonds on her
fingers

And rhythm in her ass.
That’s fairly direct.

Family could also do the quiet
acoustic folky kind of thing, too.
The Dead try it, but they don’t
have the voices to do the singing,
and their music is kid’s stuff
compared to the things Family
sets up and works around. Of
course, Family also makes much
more use of the possibilities of a
studio, tastefully placing mello-
tron and moog spurts here and
there. Something like “Bolero
Babe” (also from Bandstand)
could never be the same live, but
it sure sounds nice on the stereo.
Their use of electronics is a
logical progression from the pio-
neering work of the Beatles on
Sargeant Pepper.

The Whitney-Chapman team
wrote most of the songs, but
kevboard-vibraphone man _ Poli
Palmer did some nice stuff, too.
He was definitely the existential-
ist of the band, or rather the
most pronounced one, as in “Larf
and Sing” from Fearliess:

Everything about me has a face

A purposeless existence

overgrown

Whoever would have thought

amongst our mighty race

A man could feel so terribly

alone.
And yet they never leave you
hanging over the void as some
bands tend to do; there is defi-
nite awereness of rolling with the
punches, as in the conclusion of
the song:

Losing sometimes mean you win

If vou let the true you through

You will always find us in

If vou keep your seed in view

Drink, old mother life, she’s

the only kin we got.

As musicians, the band has
distinct elments of rock, folk, and
jazz, though not necessarily in
that order; it varies from song to
song. A constant treat are their
often too short instrumentals,
which must have been dynamite
in concert when they felt like
stretching them out. Each one is
built around a central possibilities
the various jamming possibilities
only hinted at briefly. Being
more inclined toward §instru-
mental music myself, I tend to
look at the shortness of these
pieces as an indication that they
were more concerned with word-
songs than with creating tight,
concise music, though they defi-
nitely had the ability to do both
equally well. And, god, could that
Poli Palmer play vibes! “Crinkly
Grin,” from Fearless, in 65 sec-
onds of pure musical energy.

The main drawback to Family’s
albums is the recording. Some-
thing just gets lost in the mix,
giving the whole sound a sort
of subdued, mildly surreal qual-
itl. It sounds better loud. George
Chkiantz, their producer, who al-
so produced several Soft Machine
albums, Manages to mix every-
thing together so that the sum
is not greater than the parts
taken individually. If the words

“

(Continued on page 5)

 

Thursday, February 28, 1974

eee Ne oe

-Inside-Out

By ROME SCOTT
Entertainment Editor

Badfinger—a bad name for a worse group. Heading the bill of
a concert at Virginia Tech’s coliseum Saturday night, the four-man
band inspired by, modeled after and nurtured by the Beatles should
put on a hackneved show at best.

Promoted by Paul McCartney and produced in part by George
Harrison, Badfinger has had one of the best chances possible ia
the music business to hit it big,

Even with this background the group has had only sporadic and
mild success.

Badfinger’s initial jaunt before the public came with a Me-
Cartney-written song “Come And Get It” released on the sound
track album for the Ringo Starr movie “The Magic Christian.”

The music was a shallow sounding attempt to appeal to t
teenage, top-40 radio public and gained many hours of air play cr
the strength of McCartney’s reputation alone.

With the release of “Day After Day” Badfinger finally made Bi!!-
board’s top-100 rating on its own, meaning the group wrote the song.
George Harrison produced the record and manufactured the weepy
slide guitar so characteristic of Harrison’s own music.

Up to this point the band reflected the Beatle’s influence with
vocals made up of Lennon-esque harmony structure and McCartney-
like, plaintive love-lyrics.

The vocals were backed by a simple, rhythmic instrumental bacl:-
ground textured to the raw, gutsy flavor of early Beatles.

It was “Love Me Do” all over again with one difference—Ba3-
finger is not the Beatles.

The band’s attempt to recapture the feeling of the old Beatle styic
couldn’t match the listeners’ memory of it.

A feeling for the style was not enough. To sound like the Beati-s
and wet away with it, vou have to be the Beatles and the public let
the group know it.

After a time of re-vamping Badfinger came back into the public
eve with a slightly harder, rock and roll-oriented sound releasing
“No Matter What You Are” and “Baby Blue.”

The new sound shows little personality and the vocals still have
a tendency to remind the listener of the Beatles just enough to }:2
annoying.

All told, Badfinger comes out sounding like a tasteless Beatles with
a rinky-tinky rock musical backdrop.

However, this judgment is based solely on the group’s studio
sound and, live, Badfinger may produce a sound worth hearing.

Appearing with Badfinger Saturday night are the Marshall Tucker
Band and the Status Quo.

Te edende een ode eee eden rde eee ee se ne eee ee renee seer ere ere enero eon

~~ @

* ‘-
é The First National Bank :
: of Lexington :
; has special checking accounts for students 2
eet Ieelebdetobdeteedeeen

 

Youth Fares to Europe!

SEE LEXINGTON’S

Travel Unlimited

21 W. Washington
for information

NOW OPEN

“‘n’’ Country Restaurant
Route 60—West

    
  
  
   
  
  

~~

  

Town

Monday-Thursday 9-10
Friday-Saturday-Sunday 9-Midnight

BREAKFAST — LUNCH — DINNER

Pisa A Th eG.
Phone 463-7810

 
 

 

 

 

 
Thursday,

r. Terry Wingfield

February 28, 1974

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

Psychiatric care available

By DARRYL CARLTON

Washington and Lee provides
help for the student with emo-
tional difficulties in the persons
of a university psychiatrist and a
university psychologist. Both of
these offer free services to stu-

dents and other member of the
W&L community.
There is often a lot of con-

fusion here about the difference
between the two. The psychiatrist
has a medical degree and can dis-
pense drugs, while a psychologist
usually has a Ph.D. or Ed.D. de-
gree. (See last week’s Phi for a
story on the university psycholog-
ist, Dr. James Worth.)

W&L began its mental health
services with a psychiatrist, Dr.
Terry Wingfield, who is a mem-
ber of the American Psychologi-
cal Association. He received his
medical degree from Duke Uni-
versity and specialized in psychi-
atry at the University of Virginia
Medical School.

In the early sixties, the uni-
versity became aware that there
was a student need for mental
health services. Dr. Wingfield ex-
plained that he was approached
by Dean Atwood, Dean Sprunt,
and Dr. Cole (then president of
the university) for his advice on
the matter. “I had been doing

Record review—Eclectric electric

(Continued from page 4)

and music weren’t so obviously

powerful, the sound wouldn't
come through.
The final album, It’s Only a

Movie, is intricately constructed
as a final musica] statement. Per-
sonnel changes affected’ the
music,, keeping it in the vein of
both earlier works. The lyrics
are just as powerful, but little
musical progress comes through.
Maybe they did it on purpose,
maybe they had nowhere left to
go, or maybe they just had a
contract to finish out. Even with
these adversities, the album
stands at least one cut above
73 per cent of the pap presently
being pressed onto vinyl by
people that record company busi-
nessmen tell us through their
slick promotion departments are
“musical artists.”

If you Jisten to music as hack-
ground noise, these records won’t

sound any better than most
others. On the other hand, if you
listen to your records, these will
give much enjoyment, provoke
some thinking, perhaps sometimes
a bit alarming, and will stand
up well to repeated listening.
Many American rock critics,

mostly the ones who have direct
or indirect influence over what
played on radio, tend to
write Family off as just another
English band, Some, though, have
recognized the uniqueness of
their style and deal with their
work as it should be dealt with.
Of course, that doesn’t make hits.
Not that it’s bothering Family;
as they said in “Ready to Go,”
on Bandstand:

] been down the line

And I’ve served me some time

In more than you know

I’ve seen down the cracks

Of all of you jacks

And I’m ready to go.
Alas, they are gone.

gets

115 Main St.

  
    

For

FOR YOUR EXTRA PIECES OF FURNITURE

Varner & Pole

— Lexington, Va.

KEYOET-GEVERAL
Restaurant and Motel

Truly One of the South’s Finest
Superb Dining and

Reservations Phone

  
 

Picturesque Atmosphere.
Serving Food in the
Fine Tradition of Virginia.

463-2143

Complete Facilities for

Banquets, Weddings & Receptions a
, One Mile West of Lexington on U.S. 60 4

health) work at Ran-
Sweetbriar, and
he explain-

(mental!
dolph-Macon,
Lynchburg colleges”
ed.

He divided the reasons why
W&L chose to employ a psychia-
trist at that time in three ways.
“50% was brought on by emerg-
ency or crisis problems, which
were handled in a_ haphazard
manner. It was difficult to get
psychiatric help. 25% came from
the university’s attitude, its de-
sire to assist the students in their
needs, and 25% came from the
university’s desire for growth and
development.”

Dr. Wingfield began his pro-
gram in 1965. He comes to the
Wé&L campus once a week, on
Monday, and to other area col-
leges three of the other days. He
also has a part-time private prac-
tice in Lynchburg, and works
with the Virginia Baptist Hospital
on a limited scale.

“Getting a sensible program
started went faster here than at
some of the other schools,” he
commented, “Students seemed to
accept a psychologist with less
paranoia and suspicion.”

When asked about his techni-
que, he explained that this in-
volves “whatever way I can be
of most help to the students.”
This may involve asking a lot of
questions if he feels the student
needs to talk, or giving advice
“if the student genuinely wants
it.” He also said that he did some
psychotherapy, attempting to pro-
vide corrective experiences for
those with real emotional dis-
orders.

Another part of his job is
“screening,” or making evalua-
tions and referral to private
psychiatrists and clinics. Finally,
he stated that he was doing what
he called, ‘pseudo-research” into
particular kinds of growth and
emotional problems in a univer-
sity.

Dr. Wingfield uses drugs in his
program “increasingly” as time
goes on. “There has been a tre-
mendous improvement in drug
therapy in recent years” he ex-
plained. This has included the
development of anti-depressant
and anti-psychotic drugs, as well
as of safe tranquillizers. When
asked about the use of illicit

Be Your Own Boss —

work the hours you choose. Give
vourself a raise when you want
one. Build your own business as
big as you want it. How? Become
an AVON Representative. For
further information call:

Linda Lickliter
Call Collect
703-885°5980

drugs on campus, he comment-
ed, “It is my hunch that, although
students are not coming to see
me as frequently about it, drug
use on Campus remains at a high
level.” He explained that this
could be because of a “famili-
arity” with drugs which leads to
fewer unstable reactions with
them.

When asked in what areas he
thought his office could be especi-
ally helpful, he commented “I
am really concerned with the
three suicides we’ve had here in
just three years.” He said that
this was much higher than the
expected statistical average for a
university of this size.

“Suicide and depression are
closely related,” he continued.
“Depression is a disorder or ill-
ness and not just pathos, apathy
or despondency.” He said that
these were only symptoms of
depression.

He concluded, “We have the
capacity to make a real differ-
ence here and ways to help.” Dr.
Wingfield’s office is located on
the second floor of the Student
Center, Room 103. There is a
sign-up sheet on the door on
which people put their initials
(or any initials they chose) for
an appointment.

 

LOST—A female mixed German
Shepard. White with black
sides; N.Y. rabies tag. Hind leg
dewclaws. Please call 463-9329.

 

 

 

MCAT - DAT - GRE
LSAT - ATGSB
NAT'L. BDS.

e@ Preparation for tests required

for admission to graduate and

professional schools

Six and twelve session courses

Small groups

Voluminous material for home

study prepared by experts in

each field

@ Lesson schedule can be tailor-
ed to meet individual needs.

 

Classes Now Forming

Stanley H. Kaplan
Educational Center

MD. — D.C. — VA,
(301) 530-0211
530-8718 (after six)

Tutoring School with
the Nationwide Reputation

Lessons Through Education
SINCE 1938

 

ce

 
Page 6

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

By BILL FLESHER

There was a time back in
January when a bunch of guys
who play basketball for Wash-
ington and Lee University could
have rolled over and played dead
for the rest of their 1973-74 sea-
son.

They were on their way home
from Towson State College, where
thev had lost their seventh game
in nine outings. For the fifth
time, the margin of defeat was
less than three points—this time
a mere ont point separted the
Generals from victory. There
really wasn’t much left to plav
for—the crowds had dwindled to
the same group of fans game in,
game out; any chances for post-
season play were gone. The only
thing left to play for was pride.

Monday night that same bunch
of guys headed home from Hamp-
den-Sydney, having done what
only they thought could be done
—pulling out another winning
season.

They did itbyplaying gutsy bas-
ketball game after game. They
got the breaks in the waning mo-
ments of the close ones and pick-
ed up wins instead of losses.
Most of all, they never gave up,
and, in the end, were reworded
for both their persistence and
their efforts.

They did it by playing gutsy
basketball game after game. They
final 15 games. And, when you
consider that among those op-
ponents were nationally ranked
teams Old Dominion and _ Roa-
noke, and state small college
powers Madison and Randolph-
Macon, the task was by no means
an easy one.

From 2-7 to 13-11. Think about
it.

% a ae

Verne Canfield’s forces entered
the final week of the season one
game below .500, knowing full
well that only three wins in three
games could give Canfield his
eighth straight winning season.
Win number 11 came far from
home—in Johnstown,
vania to be exact.

The Generals’ foe was the Uni-
versity of Pittsburgh at Johns-

Dry Cleaning

Linen Service

WE DELIVER

Pennsy}-

Storage & Free Moth Proofing

town, or, as they’re known to
Johnstonians, UPJ. Canfield knew
W&L would be in for a tough
ball game, even though the Panth-
ers’ 5-17 record didn’t indicate it.

Four of UPJ’s wins had come
on their home court, of which
“matchbox-sized” would be a most
appropriate description. The
architects of the gym didn’t allow
for players running more than
four feet past both endlines,
which will usually cause the fast-
breaking team to slow down out
of fear of running into walls at
full speed.

Just that happened to W&L in
the early going. Unable to get
their fast break going, W&L fell
behind by as many as 10 points
midway through the first half.

Then W&L’s aggressive man-to-
man defense again took its toll
on the opposition. The Panthers
began making careless mistakes,
and the Generals began to run
and score. W&L outscored UPJ
26-10 in the last nine minutes of
the first half, and took a 39-31
lead to the locker room at half-
time.

W&L managed to hold the lead
the better part of the second
half, although UPJ kept drawing
closer and closer. The Panthers
finally tied it up at 56-56 with
8:20 left. Yet, UPJ could never
pull into the lead.

The score was again tied, 64-
64, with 4:49 to play. Then the
Generals took control at both
ends. Greg Croghan and _ Skip
Lichtfuss manned the _ boards,
while everyone did their job in
getting the ball in the can. W&L
outscored UPJ 15-8 down the
stretch to win, 79-72.

Sophomore- guard Pual
Podgajny led all scorers with 22
points. Although he didn’t en-
joy a super’ shooting night,
Lichtfuss still played well, add-
ing 16 points, pulling down 11
rebounds, and tying a school rec-
ord with 10 assists.

The game proved a costly one
as sophomore playmaker Paul
Maloney suffered a knee injury,
and was lost to the team for their

final two games.
% ms e

UNIVERSITY
CLEANERS

Reliable Service In

Shirts Laundered
Clothing Repair

463-3622

Thursday, February 28, 1974

Wa&L basketball team finishes 13-11

The season home finals pro-
duced win number 12 and a lot
of gray hairs.

Grove City College came to
Doremus Gym with another one
of those not-too-convincing season
slates. Though 9-14, they had
proved their talents the night be-
fore when, after an eight hour
bus trip, they fell to Madison
College by only eight points in
Harrisonburg.

The Generals once again looked
as if they forgot the first 20
minutes counted just as much as
the last 20. Sloppy play dominat-
ed in the first half, and only good
defense gave the Generals a 30-30
halftime deadlock.

Then Skip Lichtfuss took over.
The senior captain, playing his
final home game, poured in 19
points in the second half. An 18-
footer with 12:37 left enabled
him to pass Lee Marshall for
fifth place on the all-time scor-
ing list at W&L. Yet the record
almost became meaningless
thanks to the efforts of Grove
City’s Jim Perrequet.

Perrequet kept his team in the
game with one of the most scintil-
lating shooting performances seen
this year. His 34 points included
two key baskets and a pair of
free throws that sent the game
into overtime (the Generals held
the ball for a final shot, but were
unable to get one off).

The overtime saw the return
of the “big gook” and the change
of the “Mad Bomber.”

Six-eight soph Norm Kristoff,
who hadn’t seen much action in
recent weeks due to an ankle
injury, exerted his influence in
the overtime to score six points
and grab five rebounds. He also
blocked two shots in the extra
period which had the crowd on
their feet.

As for W&L’s “Mad Bomber,”
one would have forgotten by now
that Bowman Williams knew
what a drive was. Having seen
his 25-foot or better rockets al!
year, who would have thought
two buckets on drives by Wil-
liams would have played a big
a role as his moves in Saturday’s
overtime,

But the big basket was saved
for the guest ce honor, as it
should have been. Lichtfuss, who
along with guard Jerry Porath
was honored at halftime, got the
ball for the final shot with :09
left. Lichtfuss dribbled to the
foul line, then threw up a shot
from about 17 feet out. The ball
hit off the back of the rim, bounc-
ed toward the rafters and fell
through without moving the net.
The seniors went out as they
should—77-75 victors.

Lichtiuss finished with 27
points while Williams and Krist-
off chipped in with 14 and 12
each. Kristoff pulled down 10
rebounds, one behind Greg
Croghan’s 11 grabs.

Then came the BIG one—the
game that mean teither a win-
ning or a .500 season.

Monday night’s Hampden-Syd-

ney clash was a makeup of the
Feb. 16 game which was can-
celled due to icy roads.
The Generals came out smokin’,
doing everything that any coach
would love to see. For the first
20 minutes W&L showed that
they were indeed one of Vir-
ginia’s best small college teams,
never mind their record.

Their aggressive man-to-man
defense forced the Tigers into
hurried shots from far out. Once
they got the ball off the boards,
the Generals gave a lesson in fast
breaking.

By the time the first half was
over, Hampden-Sydney was wond-
ering just what had hit them.
The Generals had streaked to a
60-39 halftime lead, and were
never in serious trouble the rest
of the way as they coasted to a
100-80 win.

Lichtfuss closed out his basket-
ball career with a game-high 21
points. Podgajny and Williams
followed wiht 16 and 14 each,
while Jerry Porath added 10
markers in his final game in the
Generals’ blue and white.

The smile on Verne Confield’s
face as he got off the team bus
Monday night was one of the
widest seen on this campus for a
long time. And who could blame
him.

 

 

 

 

(7 \
STUDENTS
Make this your headquarters for Good Food
and Service
We have meal tickets at savings to you
’
SOUTHERN INN
‘ Y

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ty
Thursday, February 28, 1974

Ruggers open season Saturday at Knoxville

The Washington and Lee rugby
football club opens its season
Saturday in Knoxville against the
University of Tennessee. The
team is still looking for students
and faculty members to play on
the team.

The squad is also scheduled to
play Wake Forest, North Caro-
lina, and Davidson, as well as
local opponents Lynchburg and
Roanoke. Both “A” and “B”
matches will be held in all con-
tests.

Practice sessions are held on
Tuesday, Wednesday, and Thurs-
day afternoon beginning at 4 p.m.

Interested persons may contact
Dave Johnston at 463-3384.

NOTICE

The University Council will
meet tonight at 7:30 p.m. in the
Student Executive Committee
Room in the University Center.

In addition to the usual reports
of faculty committee actions, the
following two topics remain on
the discussion agenda from the
last meeting: student representa-
tion on the University Council,
and extension of the vacation be-
tween winter and spring terms.

THE RING-TUM PHI

Page 7

 

Wrestlers finish with losing season;
Doug Ford to travel to NCAA meet

Washington and Lee wrestler
Doug Ford, the 167-pound state
champion, will compete in the
NCAA national championship
tournament (Division II) this
weekend in Wilkes-Barre, Pa.

It will be the third trip to the
nationals for the Generals’ junior
co-captain from East Islip, N.Y.
Ford finished the season with a
14-4-1 record in dual meets and
was 3-1 in tournaments for an
overall mark of 17-5-1. Included
were 14 pins.

Broun: essayist, not reporter

Descending from the dizzying
heights of television stardom
much like Zeus descending from

the heights of Olympia, CBS
sports essayist Heywood Hale
Broun shared some of his ad-

ventures and his multi-syllabic
words with the Washington and
Lee community Monday night.

Broun, here as part of Contact
‘74, pleaded for inaccuracy with
a crowd of over 500 in Lee Chapel
as he described the “art” of his
profession. Broun called report-
ing a summation of “poetry and
facts you can gather at the mo-
ment.”

In typical fashion, the CBS
essayist wore a patchwork sport-
coat of every pattern imaginable,
and then some. As far as his taste
in clothes, he said the next step
for him is “either fluorescence or
nudity.”

Broun plucked apples of wis-
lom from his experience in the
sports world as he explained his
profession. Among other observa-
tions, he noted that Super Bowl
I's most interesting aspect was its
halftime show, that football in
general] is more interesting if it’s
badly played, and that Oakland is

about as exciting a place as
Tierra de] Fuego in southern most
South America.

Broun also related his experi-
ences at the last two Olympics,
from kayak racing, with 83
officials lined up along the course
(“How does one cheat in a kayak
race?”) to the tragedy of the
Munich terrorism. He said the
Olympics should be abolished, if
only because they are a game not
for the athletes, but for the old
men who run them.

310un said he uses seven dic-

Wendell’s
Barber Shop

OPEN 9.6
9 South Jefferson

Closed Wednesday

 

Washington aud Lee University

#Bonkstore

Contact!

BOOKS BY
BUCHWALD

FRIEDKIN’S MOVIES
OREGON'S RECORDS

SSSSSSSSOSSSSSSSSSSE  OSSSCHCSSSSECHSSSSSSSESECSSSSESE

tionaries in his never-ending
search for the right word to use
in a story. He said he also owns
a 1904 Encyclopedia Britannica,
which he said he won’t bother
updating because “not much has
happened since that time that’s
of interest to me.”

Paul’s Bike Shop

11 N. New St., Staunton
Phone 886-1310
PAUL Now Accepting All
BIKE REPAIRS at
Sears’ Lexington Store
Pick-Up Every Wednesday
Returned On Wednesday.

Also New 10 Speeds Batavus
Bikes For Sale.

Taking off?
Take as up.

There’s a place for you on
Piedmont. For a weekend of
fun, a game out of town, a
quick trip home, whatever —

 

there’s a Piedmont jet or
propjet flight to fit your
plans. With personal,

thoughtful service always.
Piedmont — serving over 75

cities including Chicago,
New York, Washington,

Norfolk, Atlanta, Memphis.
Call us, or your travel agent.
We’ve got a place for you.

Piedmont

Airlines

Washington and Lee completed
its regular season last week at
7-11-1 overall, dropping meets to
a pair of Atlantic Coast Confer-
ence teams, Virginia (39-5) and
N. C. State (26-8).

Besides Ford, five other W&L
wrestlers posted winning seasons

under first-year coach Gary
Franke. Rick Heldrich at 176-177
was 7-1-4, his only loss a de-

fault due to injury; heavyweight
Steve Schweizerhof was 8-2-2; co-
captain Jim Stieff was 9-5 at 150;
Lee Keck 8-4-1 at 118-126-134; and
Don Overdorff was 10-8-1 at 126.

 

Hamric and Sheridan
JEWELERS
Watch and Jewelry Repair
Hand Engraving & Class Rings
463-2022

 

 

 

East Lexington
Grocery

Beer — Ice — Gas
Party Supplies — Snacks
Open 7 days a week
ABC No, 2078—8 a.m.-10 p.m.
SHOP FOR SUNDAY

EVENING DINNER
We Sell & Deliver Kegs

 

 

 

 

 

 
Page 8 THE RING-TUM PHI Thursday, February 28, 1974

NOTICE
Wilfred Cantrell Smith will
speak on faith and religion Fri-

R/C Theatres day night in Lee Chapel at 7 p.m. G BT y Q ( R B I K BH IN
Dr Smith jis the==sutnor of a =

Regal Cinema Fare

in Lexington number of books on the topic of
State Tuite ao oo SHAPE FOR SPRING

12-14 W. N elson S ft 463- 3 42 4 fe ofe oe whe ole ofa ole oe ofa fe ofente oft the of ole of ole ole ofa ote of Og ys

 

With A Complete Overhaul

INCLUDES:

NOW SHOWING The Alexander- is . Derailleur Adjustment

Brake Adjustment

_— Wi th row House 3. Cleaning & Greasing of Crank, Head, & Wheel Bearings
. . Truing of Wheels
Robin Hood 3 West Washington Street =
A restored historic landmark with ONLY $10.00
five period-furnished guest suites. Now Thru March 31st an $18.50 Value
L ; A different experience in over-
ri . night hospitality for those who
y c inema love fine things. Students may THE LEXINGTON BICYCLE SHOP
135 S. Main St. 463-2543 make reservations for their par- Bikes, Parts, Repairs, Accessories
ents and tour the house from = . .
LAST BIG WEEK 10-2 Tuesday through Saturday, 130 S. Main St.

er write: Mrs. Harriet Thomas.

- ~.
Open: 10-5 Mon.-Sat.
e . .
A m e r | . a n r a f | t | of oe oe he ole oleate ole oft ole te ole ole of rieots terkerterk te fohoh

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

4

i

Curtis Enterprises and New Era Records |

present |

i

Spring Get Away |

|

|

OVER $10,000 IN PRIZES TO BE AWARDED! ENTER NOW! |

i

YOU COULD WIN THE VACATION OF YOUR LIFETIME! |

i

Grand Prize |

1. Five, sunfilled davs—four fantastic nights at the posh “Pier 66 Motel” on the ocean at FT. LAUDERDALE, FLORIDA! |
2. First-class round ‘trip transportation from winner’s location to FT. LAUDERDALE!
3. Honda rental bike during the duration of your stay!
4. Dinner for two at the fabulous “Pink Pussy Cat’!
5. Dinner for two at the “Windjammer”! . =s
6. Dinner for two at “Pier 66” — the world’s most fantastic supper club overlooking the beautiful blue ATLANTIC! |

7 $100.00 credit account in your name at “She’—the swingingest singles spot in Florida! Top name entertainment 7 days a week!
8. $50.00 credit account in vour name at “The Button”’—Lauderdale’s leading after-hours club!

   

9, $100.00 cash — to spend as you please!
10 Each Second Prizes
1. Three davs, two nights at Holiday Inn, on the ocean, at FT. LAUDERDALE, FLORIDA.
2. Round trip transportation (from winner's location).
9 Dinner for two at “The Windjammer.”
4, $25.00 credit account in your name at “She:
5. $25.00 cash — to spend as vou please.

1,000 Third Prizes

1. Any one stereo LP or § track tape of vour choice listed in the current New Era Records Catalog.

teste ste teste stele te test *, ie ste she she she tle dle she dhe dhe she ale ale sa sta ste sta sta ste staat
: he fe ale nfs fe ole ole ole ofa ole oe ole fe of ale afi nf of of ole le le of of ole fe ole ole ale ole ole ole ole oft ote ole oleae ote oft ofe ate

+

 

 

a ; ; %

1. Contest open only to bonafide students of an accredited col- * Curtis Enterprises — New Era Records é
lege or university. % a

» Winners will be selected by the W.A, Wilholt Corporation, an Bay wikia oe UCU *
independent judging organization. Winners will be selected % : iste ax cata: *
at random and the decision of the judges will be final. A list * ES *
of all winners will be available upon written request to New #.. :
Era Records. : z eT Ce _™"___E_ *
3. To register, print information in spaces provided on coupon. % %
|. Enclose $1.00 for processing and handling. Remit by check % Address ee —— oe
or postal money order only PAYABLE TO: % t
“NEW ERA RECORDS-CEL” eCity | | ae ) 8 = %

5. Mail your registration to: NEW ERA RECORDS _ I ;
: 254 Kh. PACES FERRY ROAD N.E.  % *
ATLANTA, GEORGIA 30305 QPAONG ices eet eetsvaeeenes sete eesened gin tenes us

ot

we

+
Fe Me Me Ma ate ate te he he te Me Mah PAA AAA AAA a Oe Oe Oe Or
Yee ae ae ae ae ae oe af oe ae fe whe he fe ala ne he ake whe oe ofa ole ole ofa ale ole ae ole ole ole ake ols ole ole ole ole ole ole ole ofe ate

6. Entries must be postmarked NOT LATER THAN March 8, 1974,

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
The Ring-tum Phi

Washington and Lee University’s Weekly Newspaper
LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA, MARCH 7, 1974

William Friedkin to lecture tonight

Vol. LXXIII

Director William Friedkin will
utilize film clips from “The
French Connection” and “The
Exorcist” tonight in his film dis-
cussion in the State Theater at
8:30 p.m. Friedkin’s talk winds
up Contact’s Contemporary Com-
munications Symposium.

Contact co-chairman Chris
Harris and Harrison Turnbull
have announced that only mem-
Ders of the Washington and Lee

Streaking!

 

community will be admitted to
the State Theater before 7:45 p.m.
tonight. After that time, the doors
will be open to all persons until
the theater is filled to its 600-
person capacity,

Other speakers in the Contact
symposium were sports essayist
Heywood Hale Broun, columnist
Art Buchwald, and the musical
group Oregon.

 

EC president,

Number 19

secretary

candidates unopposed
for elections Monday

3y ROBERT PUGH

Candidates for two of the Big
Three offices are running uncon-
tested.

Junior Ben Bailey is running
unopposed for student body presi-
dent, and sophomore Mike Luttig
has no opposition in his race for
student body secretary.

Three juniors are competing
for student body vice-president:
Bob Keatley, Chris Scully, and
Ben Sherman. If no majority is
won by an candidate, there wil!
be a run-off,

Elections are next Monday, the
Executive Committee said. Polls
will be open from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m.
at Washington Hall, the Co-op,
Tucker Hall, and the freshman
quad. Run-offs, if necessary, will
be next Thursday.

All candidates will speak and
answer questions at Evans Dining

Hall tonight at 7 p.m.

Each candidate is allowed to
spend $10 in the primary and $5
in the runoff. Expense accounts
are due in the EC box Sunday at
6 p.m. Only 50 posters are per-
mitted at one time, and these can-
not be placed on the front colon-
nade or white areas of buildings.

In other EC action last Mon-
day:

Lawyer Tom Spencer of Spencer
and Crawford, a local law firm,
discussed the possibility of re-
taining an attorney for student
organizations and the student
body. He suggested an appraisal
of the need for legal services. The

Streakers exhibit skills here

By PAUL LANCASTER

Streaking has struck.

The latest campus phenomenon
known as streaking caught the
Washington and Lee community
with its pants down, so to speak,
Saturday night as approximately
40 nude, apparently sane students
ran a “streak” up and down the
front Colonnade of Washington
and Lee,

It began with a few apparently
harmless comments about streak-
ing on the “Oldies Authority,”
WLUR-FM’s Saturday morning
radio show. The comments, made
by one of the co-hosts of the pro-
gram, reportedly solicited a num-
ber of phone calls from self-pro-
claimed “streaking societies,”
each claiming to be the only

legitimate such group on campus.

Then, five streakers, perhaps
in an effort to demonstrate their
group’s streaking superiority,
dashed through the WLUR
studios.

One thing led to another, and
finally, sometime Saturday night,
the word was passed. W&L’s
streak was on. Or off, as the
case may be,

In addition to the Colonnade
escapade, a small roving band
of W&L  semi-streakers (they
Were clad in raincoats) prepared
for a massive streak across the
Virginia Military Institute cam-
pus, They were thwarted, how-
ever, by security men stationed
at VMI,

Since then, rumors have been

circulating about future streaks,
but as of press time, none had
occurred. Among the rumors: a
streak during “D” hour( at about
il a.m.) Monday morning along
the Colonnade; a shameless dash
across the floor of Doremus Gym-
nasium during columnist Art
Buchwald’s speech there; and a
streak, or series thereof, across
Wilson Field Saturday as the
Washington and Lee lacrosse
team opens its season at home.

But there’s nothing new
under the moon, as they say.
In fact, the art of streaking
(no, it won't be offered as a
Spring Term course here) is
170 years old at Washington
and Lee.

An unimpeachable source (that

study would cost $150. The EC
is considering the proposal.

Freshman representative Scott
Franklin reported on the Health
Service Committee meeting. He
said any complaints about health
care should be given to Dean
John. University Physician Dr.
Feddeman believed that there is
insufficient need for a full-time
doctor.

In other news, the EC decided
to discuss the Report of the Com.
mittee on Election Procedures
next week. The plan provides for
an impartial committee which
would man polls, enforce election
procedures, and count ballots.

Spring break,

exams changed

By PAUL MORELLA
A motion calling for the post-
ponement of the start of the

spring semester until Tuesday,
April 16, was passed by the Uni-
versity Council last Thursday

night, thus alleviating the prob-
lem of returning to school on a
gas-short Easter Sunday.

In addition, the UC delegated
the faculty Executive Committee
to determine how to make up the
lost day of classes.

Previously, spring term classes
were scheduled to begin on Mon-
day, April 15, and students would
have to return to school on Sun-

(Continued on page 5)

Saturday

rules out Richard Nixon) tells us
that the 1804 incident is recorded
in the archives of the Washing-
ton and Lee Board of Trustees. A.
student with the innocuous name
of William Crump was appre-
hended (we're not sure how) run-
ning naked through the streets
of the peaceful little community
of Lexington at 7:30 in the morn:
ing.

Crump pleaded guilty, and the
trustees in a _ precedent-setting
decision (or so we hope for to-

day’s streakers) merely repri-
manded him.
AS a matter of note, “naked

Crump,” as he was called, later
became a Congressman and an
ambassador to Chile.

And that’s the naked truth,
THE RING-TUM PHI

 

 

Addenda

Throughout the school year, we’ve been jotting down a list of
odds and ends which we felt we should speak to as the need arose
and the space became available. So here’s the list:

—Why doesn’t Buildings and Grounds get around to fixing the
door to the game room of the University Center? The outside handle
has been broken off for months now, and to get. inside, a person
has to pound on the door and interrupt somebody’s pinball, foosball
or pool game, because someone already inside the game room has to
open the door for the person outside.

—While we’re addressing Buildings and Grounds, how about the
mudslides across the sidewalks in front of the Lee-Jackson and
faculty houses? Every time it rains, cascades of mud go tumbling
down the barren slopes near the two houses, and the mud inevitably
decides to come to rest on the sidewalks, leaving them slippery when
wet, dirty when dry, and messy anytime. Something can be done to
alleviate the situation.

—With elections coming up in the next few weeks, posters wilil
present themselves as another campus eyesore with which viewers
of our national historic landmark must contend. A committee has
been set up by the Executive Committee to study the problem, but
it appears that nothing will be done before the onslaught of campaign
posters hits campus. We hope something is done soon.

—Now that security has supposedly been tightened at Doremus
Gym to keep non-students, non-faculty, and non-staff out, why is the
gym teaming with non-students, non-faculty, and non-staff at various
times? Rumor has it that Doremus Gym was built for members of
the Washington and Lee community, but at times, that contention
could be doubted.

—P.J.L.

It’s election time

This week, of course, marks the launching of that yearly escapade
known as election time. Monday, students vote for the Big Three
(as opposed to the Big Five of years past—Fancy Dress and vice-
president of the Dance Board are now gone). The Big Three, by the
way, are the president, vice-president and secretary of the student
body.

Then, the following week, petitions will be due for the remainder
of EC positions up for grabs in the winter term. Historically, candi-
dates for these offices consist of those who lost in the Big Three
elections in the week previous. The menu for the second course of
election meal lists die-hard campus politicos as its main entree.

Finally, in the spring term (not all that far away) come elections
for University Council. By this time only the most desperate of
political hopefuls on campus (sprinkled with those who originally
wanted to run for a Big Three office but who couldn’t get up the
courage to run for any office until now) making up the political
spectre.

Add to this the election of class officers during this time and
you have students voting, and running, for more than 30 campus
offices. And don’t forget Interfraternity Council elections.

Don’t forget referenda and the like, either. Coming up will be an
Executive Committee pol] on the Honor System; and, of course, the
third annual coeducation referendum will be presented for your
pleasure. And rumors are circulating that certain members of the
EC are going to propose a constitutional amendment calling for
open Publications Board meetings. This is in response to the Ring-tum
Phi’s adamant stand for on amendment opening EC meetings in all
instances except discussion of possible honor violations (the amend-
ment passed). Whether the rumors are true remains to be seen; the
fact of the matter is we didn’t know that Publications Board meet-
ings were closed to begin with.

The point is that the long, drawn-out process of student body
elections at Washington and Lee has begun, and it’s a cinch the
elections will be interesting to some, boring to most. The elections
will obviously fail to approach last-year’s mind-boggling contest be-
tween seeming radical Doug Schwartz and opponent Lewis Powell,
seeming personification of all the things which Schwartz attacked.

For all its excitement, the Schwartz-Powell confrontation didn’t
really mean much, Looking over the goals and accomplishments of
this year’s EC, it would be hard to tell that seeming radical Schwartz
won the election.

The most splendiferous election campaign in recent years at W&L,
then, apparently didn’t produce anything startling in its outcome.
Forecasting a more boring battle for EC president this year, we
fear, at best, the same results,

We hope such is not the case, and we hope the campaigners stick
to what they say they stand for, if they are elected.

—P.J.L.

Thursday, March 7, 1974

A reply to Reeves
Sir:

I am obligated to respond to
the review of Mr. Blouin’s new
course in the Art Department by
Jess Reeves. More than three
approaches come to mind, but;
1, tell him to go to hell, 2. ignore
his review as if he really did
mean it to be a joke...meta-
physical sarcasm of the ugliest
sort (on both my part and his),
or 3. try to reason out what
underlies this sort of condescen-
sion and assess what it means
to our educational, metaphysical
and actual community. This for-
mat is best suited to the last of
these arbitrary three.

Reeves manages to express con-
tempt for craft, as well as art,
(the relationship of which he
would do well to explore by look-
ing up W. Gropius and the
Bauhaus Movement in pre-WW II,
Weimar), for coeds, mechanics,
Goshen, Va., and all the people
in the area and community en-
gaged in woodwork, blacksmith-
ing, leatherwork, etc. ... or
participating in any of the other
arts such as music, drama, crea-
tive writing, etc. ... and even
for ‘the old Greeks. This leaves
me in a big dilemma when faced
with the question of who Jess
Reeves is and where he thinks he
is living. At least I do know that
he thinks we should all be doing
what he is doing .. . and that
it isn’t art.

For me to hazard a guess
about his categorical ancestory
in this fragmented institution
would be an undeserved slight to
on of its parts (except the ad-
ministration . . . whose lessons
we all must learn), because the
truth of the matter is that all
the arts here have been kept in
a socio-economic dead-end; shov-
ed off into the spare rooms on
campus...and here is Mr. Reeves
ghost (living in a world where
he takes advantage of the craft
of others but considering their
actual performance to be beneath
his integrity—); the most power-
ful reminder of the reason why
we al] have to put up with poorly
designed and constructed neces-

RULERS TO THE EDITOR

OUTLOOK and REVIEW

sities . . . and with members
of our community who take ad-
vantage of their education here
not to help create and sustain a
fair society, but to become part
of the ever-growing elite bureau-
cracy who serve to introduce, not
quality, but scientific-playfulness
into every field of human en-
deavor and priority. This ghost
is our example of a man out of
touch. And quite frankly, he is
our strongest argument for an
arts center that we, as a com-
munity have to face; the oppres-
sion inherent in his attitude, the
most dangerous.

Sincerely,

Scott Ainslie

Defending the arts
Sir:

We found Mr. Reeves’ attitude
last week concerning the offering
of a course in arts and crafts at
Washington and Lee to be highly
revolting. His contempt for those
desiring to learn something about
manual crafts and arts is blatant-
ly snobbish and his remarks
about basket weaving for the
blind is disgusting. We have sev-
eral friends in Lexington who are
engaged in such “minor,” “ri-
diculous” crafts as blacksmithing,
leather-working, woodworking,
and automobile repair, and we
suggest that they require as much
talent and energy to excell in as
any career that Mr. Reeves might
seek out for himself.

It is certainly hoped that it
is not Mr. Reeves’ pursuit of
“major” educational topics which
has led him to such a narrow
contempt towards interests out-
side the purely academic field, for
such is just the opposite of the
liberal attitude this institution at-
tempts to instill in its students.

In conclusion, it is sincerely
hoped that Mr. Reeves’ car never
breaks down in Goshen.

Sincerely,

Scott Nelson
Bobby Higgins
Paul Coleman
David Lotts
Rick Rogers
Gordon Saunders

THE RING-TUM PHI

The Ring-tum Phi is published on Thursdays during the college year.
It is printed by the Journalism Laboratory Press, Washington and Lee
University. The mailing address is Box 899, Lexington, Virginia 24450.
Entered as second class matter September 29, 1946, at the Post Office,
Lexington, Virginia 24450, under the act of March 3, 1879. Subscription
rates: $6.00 for the school year, $3.00 for the semester.

PAUL J. LANCASTER ANDREW J. A. CHRISS

Editor-in-chief Business Manager
CO SS ee Jess Reeves
8 a re ee ry hee eee Bill Austin
I NN sos as ass sc i as ws 02 8k 0 ts Bill Robinson
TUG EO a ss ss Ss a Rome Scott
ee rr ar es David Lee
ee Dave Finnell, John Killpack, Chuck Alt
Comiripuiers «sk. s.....: Tim Moore, Steve Yevich, Tom Rittenburg,

Bill Flesher, Paul Morella, W. Patrick Hinely, John Zamoiski

 

 

 
Thursday, March 7, 1974

Ask Traveller

Ask Traveller: Interview with a Streaker

    

Traveller: “Well, you Greeks really set the campus on fire over the
weekend with your streaking exhibition, didn’t you?”

Streaker: “Sure did! Pretty keen, wasn’t it?”

Traveller: “Terribly.”

Streaker: “Yeah, and the Alumni magazine might even do a special
feature on it if Bob Keefe has room between the commemorative
plate offer and the In Memoriam section. Pretty keen, eh?’

Traveller: “Awfully. Tell me, what exactly motivated you to toss off
your clothes and streak—thrills, notoriety, a sense of the grotes-
que?”

Streaker: “Nah. The fella that organized the streak—one of the
Geology professors, I think, who called us his igneous lads—
said that our act would strike a blow for Life, Liberty, and the
right to force-feed iguanas. He told us the same thing, too, after
Kent State, when we had to memorize lyrics to every Crosby,
Stills, & Nash song and wear black armbands that kept slipping
down so they looked like formal French cuffs.”

Traveller: “Yes, but why did you personally streak?”

Streaker: “I didn’t have a date.”

Traveller: “But didn’t you feel slightly silly prancing around naked?”

Streaker: “Sort of. But the other guys said it was the in-thing to do.”

Traveller: “Like swallowing goldfish used to be?”

Streaker: “What? Who’d do a dumb think like that?”

Traveller: “Never mind. It’s old hat.. like streaking. Didn’t you know
that by Saturday night half the schools this side of the equator
had already done it, and that by streaking, then, in the dark,
it only made W&L look stupid?”

Streaker: “We couldn’t let UVa get the honor. After all, aren’t all
Wahoos gray in the dark? Ha, ha, ha.”

Traveller: “No doubt. Say, remember the old Ozzie and Harriet shows
where Ricky’s frat chums did crazy things like write ‘Beat State’
on the blackbord before the big game? Or hide dead carp in
David’s undewear?”

Streaker: “Ha, ha, ha. Pretty keen, right?”

Traveller: “Do you think so?”

Streaker: “Sure! Why?”

Traveller: “Oh, no reason really. You dropped one of your topsiders.”

Paul’s Bike Shop

11 N. New St., Staunton
Phone 886-1310
PAUL Now Accepting All
BIKE REPAIRS at
Sears’ Lexington Store
Pick-Up Every Wednesday
Returned On Wednesday.

Also New 10 Speeds Batavus
Bikes For Sale.

Wendell’s
Barber Shop

OPEN 9-6
9 South Jefferson

Closed Wednesday

  

Ss

GET YOUR BIKE IN
SHAPE FOR SPRING

With A Complete Overhaul
INCLUDES:
1. Derailleur Adjustment
2. Brake Adjustment
3. Cleaning & Greasing of Crank, Head, & Wheel Bearings
4

Truing of Wheels

ONLY $10.00
Now Thru March 3lst an $18.50 Value

THE LEXINGTON BICYCLE SHOP
Bikes, Parts, Repairs, Accessories
130 S. Main St.

Open: 10-5 Mon.-Sat.

 

   
 

 
 
    
    
    

 

THE RING-TUM PHI Page 3

 

 

Inside-Out

By ROME SCOTT
Entertainment Editor

They all wanted it for themselves—the ones who write the soft
love lyrics, the hard, funky movers and the boogie rock and the rest.

“Communicate man, Yeah, just communicate. I’ve got something
to say to everybody. Now, to find a way to make people listen.” They
feel that and, still, it’s hard to believe they’re all human.

The superstars. The dudes who stand on the stage in front of so
many. Ah, but they’re human.

The Peter Townsends and Jim Messinas and Joe Walshes are all
human. And they have something to say—the ones who are after
the music first, the dollar second. They show sensitivity.

Music is about that too.

Hard, soft, soul, rock, country or what. It doesn’t matter. The
sincere artist is a real human trying to put something in the public
ear that feels so much you want to dance or sing or shout or cry.
Those are the real musicians, the figures shadowing a dimly lit stage
shaking their souls on a string trying to share it with the audience.

Those are the musicians to whom the man on the front row says
“amen.”

The critic is after the real ones.

And it matters. The real critic cares so much about the music
he considers judgement a burden, a matter as important as the effort
the musician puts into the songs he plays.

But if the musician lets the critic down...

Above all, though, the reader is the rider. He is the one sitting
in final judgment of both. The reader has the edge. He says where
the fault lies. “That critic’s all wrong. Tin ears, no eyes,” is the
usual reaction. Sometimes “Man, that critic’s got a lot on the ball
That musician ain’t worth a damn.”

And that’s where the reader should be. If the critic fails, the
reader is the one who loses. He doesn’t learn anything.

The real critic put himself in the “amen corner” and, in doing
so, takes it upon himself to expose himself to every bit of music
and what goes into it.

There lies the rub. A critic has got to find out what is behind all
music, not just what he prefers.

The average listener exposes himself only to the music he enjoys
and, even then, never asks, ‘Why do I like this guy’s music? What
is it about this song that moves me?”

There’s no need for the listener to ask any questions. If the music
says something to him it’s enough. That’s the way it should be.

The critic asks the questions so often they become reflex. He’s
got to say something when the music stops.

And confronted with the problem of public credibility, many a
critic would say, “I know what I mean. I have something to say. If
this guy stands up before me and doesn’t give as much to this
audience as he can, I’m gonna nail him.”

Most critics will—for the reader, music and themselves.

% a a %

Many at a recent concert in Roanoke found that it’s hard to say
no to Yes.

The five-man British band put on a show and punched out some
msuic that will be talked about again and again.

Excerpts from Stravinsky’s “Firebird Suite’ opened the concert
but soon gave way to Yes’ own “Siberian Khatru” a fine example
of immense power, supported by delicate balance, in the group's
music.

 

Well-coordinated syncopation was the background for fragile and
graceful instrumentals.

Jon Anderson’s voice powered out misty melodies surrounded by
a body of solid, intrinsically classical rock.

Steve Howe’s lead guitar, Chris Squire’s bass, Rick Wakeman’s
keyboards and Alan White’s drums created, with Anderson’s voice,
a montage of modes ranging from rock to jazz to classical.

The clarity and precision of the group’s live sound confirms that
the band is not just a studio group.

All of the sounds heard on the group’s records are sounds they
can produce live.

The end of Yes’ concert was met by a standing ovation which
brought the group back to go “Roundabout,” the song that launched
the band in America.

After hearing the band perform live, one does not wonder why
the group calls itself Yes. The feeling is Yes’ music is emphatically
affirmative.

eee ete oleae eae se ne oe ee oe sere oe te shen rhe ree oleae oe ae alee ofeafate oe ate steofeateatete

5 The First National Bank
: of Lexington
‘ has special checking accounts for students

Setobelobbttetek
hy
at

9
o
~

 

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

Columnist Art Buchwald explains how Rose Mary Woods did for governmental ‘credibility.

Boston Strangler did for door-to-door salesmen.

Thursday, March 7, 1974

   

“What the
—Photo by Bill Robinson

4 students admit guilt in painting of Washington Hall statue

The Student Control] Committee
passed sentence Tuesday night on
the four students found guilty of
painting the statue of George
Washington on top of Washing-
ton Hall. In a majority decision
the committee decided that those
responsible, Peter Cimmino,
Tertius Keiger, Joel Williams, and
Jess Reeves, should reimburse
the university for the cost of
repainting the statue.

The students made a free and
open admission of their guilt. In
their own defense they said that
the escapade had been motivated
by a desire to restore some of the
Jost traditions of the school. They

 

WANTED: Female, to work with

vegetables ... Must LO V E
CELLRAY
Call Paul. 463-5289.

 

also pointed out that the univer-
sity had not suffered as a result
of their action and to the con-
trary had received good publicity.

The Student Control] Committee
states that it felt that they should
put the schoo] back in the same
situation it was in before the
incident took place. This would
entail paying for the repainting
of the statue which has been ac-
complished by the maintenance
crew.

The four are expected to pick
up a tab which it is estimated
will run in the neighborhood of
$250. The committee also so show-

ed concern for the welfare of the
students and the effect an acci-
dent on such a caper might have
had on the university.

The four artists will have the
right to appeal their case to the
Student Affairs Committee. Im-
mediately after a verdict was
handed down last Tuesday night
the condemned men announced
their intention to appeal the
case. The four felt that the pen-
alty was too harsh and did not
take into account any of the spill-
over benefits derived from the
painting. Their case may be heard
by the SAC in a meeting today.

Concert Guild to present pianist next week

Donald Walker, pianist, will
present a concert sponsored by
the Washington and Lee Univer-
sity Concert Guild Tuesday at 8
p.m. in Lee Chapel.

Walker is artist-in-residence at
Northern Illinois University. He

   
 
 
 
 
 
 
   

( One Mile West of L

FOR YOUR EXTRA PIECES OF FURNITURE

Varner & Pole

115 Main St. — Lexington, Va.

KBYDET-GENBRAL
, Restaurant and Motel

Truly One of the South’s Finest
Superb Dining and
Picturesque Atmosphere.
Serving Food in the J
Fine Tradition of Virginia.

For Reservations Phone 463-2143

: Complete Facilities for

Banquets, Weddings & Receptions
xington on U.S. 60

   
 

3 ‘. : :
ae’ \ ae

  

os
*

ot

  

has toured widely in this country
and Europe, receiving consistent-
lv high praise from critics.

Following his European tour
Mr. Walker was invited for BBC
appearances in London and for
radio in Amsterdam.

Spring term changed;
classes start Tuesday

(Continued from page 1)

day, April 14. Because of the gaso-
line shortage, however, students
living more than one full tank
of gas away, could easily en-
counter travel difficulties in at-
tempting to return on Sunday.
Before making their decision, the
UC was presented with the signa-
tures of 590 students and the
Executive Committee’s endorse-
ment of the proposed change.

Unlike the arguments for chang:
ing the winter break, the argu-
ments for changing the start of
the spring break were much more
valid. For example, because the
spring semester is over a month
away, many students have yet to
make travel plans. Also, it is be-
coming increasingly harder to
find an open gas station on a
Sunday, particularly Easter Sun-
day.

At the same meeting, another
motion was passed concerning
the winter term exam schedule.
The motion will add an extra
exam period on Saturday,
March 30, from 2-5 p.m, The
remainder of the exam periods
will remain as scheduled.

POOL TOURNAMENT

The University Center Commit-
tee is sponsoring a pool tourna-
ment. All of those people who are
under the impression that they
can play pool better than anyone
else have a chance to prove it.

The event is scheduled to start
at 7 p.m. Tuesday, March 12. The
game will be eight-ball and will
continue until] there is a champ-
ion.

This champion will receive for
his talents $20. Sign-up sheets
will be posted in front of Ken
Lane’s office in the University
Center. These sheets will stay up
until 3 p.m. Tuesday afternoon.
There is no entry fee.

 

The Alexander-Withrow House

3 WEST WASHINGTON STREET

A restored historic landmark with five period-furnished guest suites.
A different experience in overnight hospitality for those who love
fine things. Students may make reservations for their parents and
tour the house from 10-2 Tuesday through Saturday or write Mrs.

Harriet Thomas.

 

 

‘i

Town

 

NOW OPEN

n’’ Country Restaurant
Route 60—West

Monday-Thursday
Friday-Saturday-Sunday 9-Midnight

   

9-10

BREAKFAST — LUNCH — DINNER

FEZ EA FTO GO.
Phone 463-7810

 

 

 
Thursday, March 7, 1974

Poet to appear here

The Glasgow Endowment Com-
mittee will bring to Washington
and Lee for a two-day visit on
March 12 and 13 Pulitzer-prize
vinning poet, critic, and transla-

tor, Richard Howard.

Howard will] lecture on Emily
Dickinson on Tuesday afternoon
at 3:30 in duPont Auditorium, and
in duPont on Wednesday evening

in

THE RING-TUM PHI Page 5

 

at 8 will read from his own
poetry. On Wednesday he will
‘isit classes and talk to students
interested in discussing their own
creative work.

Curriculum survey to be distributeed in classes Wednesday, Thursday

By HERB RUBENSTEIN

For the first time Washington
and Lee students will take class
time to evaluate their professors
and courses.

Next Wednesday and Thursday
professors will distribute curri-
culum evaluation questionnaires.
Each student will be asked to
evaluate the course he receives
his questionnaire in and through-
out the two days he will have a
chance to evaluate all his winter
courses.

The questionnaire was prepar-
ed by the Student Curriculum
Committee and was unanimously

approved by the Executive Com-
mittee. With the faculty approval
of the use of class time, students
now have an opportunity to sup-
ply the Curriculum Committee
with much needed information.

The Committee will compile the
results of the survey this spring
and the results will be published
in a handbook during the fall
semester next year. This will
make the information gathered in
the survey easily available for
student use.

If you have any suggestions for
future surveys or wish to help
in the tabulation of the results,

Health services committee formed

A new University Student
Health Committee has been ap-
pointed by President Huntley to
act in an advisory capacity on
matters pertaining to the scope
and effectiveness of Washington
and Lee’s students health services.

Among the topics to be con-
sidered are the following: uni-
versity policies, staffing, and fa-
cilities; mental health program;
athletic medicine program; emerg-
ency care; university-hospital re-
lationships; community medical
facilities and manpower; resi-
dential health and safety; pre-
ventive and educational programs.

The committee invites ideas,

NOTICE

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes
letters to the editor on im-
portant issues. We require that
all letters be typewritten, and
that they be turned in by Mon-
day night prior to the issue of
publication. Letters should be
signed. Turn letters into the
Phi office in Reid Hall or mail
to Box 899, Lexington, Va.
24450.

Dry Cleaning

Linen Service

WE DELIVER

suggestions, and constructive
criticisms from all interested per-
sons. Comments should be made
in writing and submitted to Lewis
G. John, Dean of Students, ni
Washington Hall 25.

Members: Edward C. Atwood,
Jr., James T. Becker ’75, William
Scott Franklin °’77, Samuel J.
Kozak, John M. McDaniel, L. John
Ratzel, Jr. ‘75, Lewis G. Jonn,
Chairman.

 

AVON

You can sell AVON full-time or
parttime! As an Avon Repre-
sentative you can schedule your
own earning opportunity by sell-
ing quality products right in your
own community. Call now:

Linda Lickliter
Call Collect
703-885°5980

 

Storage & Free Moth Proofing

UNIVERSITY
CLEANERS

Reliable Service In

Shirts Laundered
Clothing Repair

463-3622

contact any member of the com-
mittee or come by its meetings
at 7:05 on Tuesdays in Room 112,
the University Center.

 

R/C Theatres
Regal Cinema Fare
in Lexington

State Theatre

12-14 W. Nelson St. 463-3424
ONE WEEK

Magnum Force

Clint Eastwood

Lyric Cinema

35 S. Main St. 463-3543

WEDNESDAY-THURSDAY

Class of 44

FRIDAY-SATURDAY
Sunday
Bloody Sunday

and

Fellini‘s Roma

SUN.MON.-TUES.

Zachariah

Glasgow Endow

 

feos
, we a fe SD
To eZ =
be ey Gy a
ry bi a i

Howard studied at Columbia
University and the Sorbonne and
later traveled widely over West-
ern Europe and the near East.
Iie worked as a lexicographer
until 1958 and from 1958 on has
translated for American readers
scores of works by such French
authors as Gide, Sartre, Camus,
Foucault, Barthes, Butor, Robbe-
Grillet, and a host of others,

This will be the poet’s second
visit to Washington and Lee. He
was here also in October, 1970.

 

STOP!!
ask yourself...

“Where Will I Be and What
Will I Be Doing 5 Years
From Today if I Continue
What I Am Doing Now?”

We have 3 sales positions to
fill which can develop into
MANAGEMENT for the right
person.

@ Atend 2 weeks Sales Train-

ing School at our Sales
Training Center, expenses
paid.

@ Be guaranteed $800-$1000 a
month to start

@ Be given the opportunity
to advance rapidly into
MANAGEMENT.

TO QUALIFY:

@ Must be sportsminded

@ Age 21 or over

@ Ambitious - dependable

@ High School Graduate or
better

@ Own good car

For the right person, this is a
lifetime career opportunity
with an international group
of companies. For personal
and confidential interview,
please send resume with both
home and school telephone
number. WRITE TODAY for
your career interview. DO IT
now! !!

P. O. BOX 4613
RICHMOND, VA. 23229

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

STUDENTS!

Make this your headquarters for Good Food

and Service

We have meal tickets at savings to you

SOUTHERN INN

 

 

 
Page 6

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

Are you a superfan?

Thursday,

A Wa&L basketball fan quiz

By BILL FLESHER

So you call yourself a TRUE
fan of Washington and Lee
basketball, huh?

Can you say to anyone with a
clear conscience that you stuck
with the 1974 Generals through
all the disappointments until the
end, an end which very few mem-
bers of the W&L community ex-
pected?

Well, here’s a way to measure
your loyalty to this year’s round-
ballers. Admittedly, it’s not as
exciting as Ann Landers’ quiz
which determines your “experi-
ence with the opposite sex,” but
I think you'll find it interesting
nevertheless.

Ready (no cheating, now; this
fa\'s under the Honor System).

Give yourself.....

Two points for every W&L
home game you attended in its
entirity (one point for being
at one half or more, no points
for missing or just “peeking in’).

Five points for any away game
you attended.

One point for every game you
listened to on WLUR.

Two points if you watched the
W&L-Madison game on TY.

Five points for taking a date
to a game (maximum 10 points).

Five points if you can match
each plaver to his uniform num-
ber.

Five points for attending the
entire W&L Invitational (all four
games),

Now, it’s penalty

Take away

Ten points for not even know-

time.

ing that there was a home game
on any given night.

Ten points for each time you
had to ask someone either what
the basketball team’s record was,
or, whether the team had recent-
ly had a game, or, if W&L even
had a basketball team.

Time to add up. Now, if your
score fell between 0 (or a nega-
tive amount) and 15 points, you
are a poor excuse for a fan in
my opinion. In fact, if you fall
into this category, I wonder why
you even bother reading the
sports pages. (Editor’s note: Not
for the basketball articles, that’s
for sure.)

If your score is in the 16-30
points range, all I can say is
that you made a “weak effort.”
Weak at best.

From 31-40 points, “good effort’
laurels are bestowed upon you.
But try a little harder next time,
for look what’s one step up.

From 41-65 points, congratula-
tions, for you are a FAN. Keep
up the good work.

And, if you got above 65 points,
you qualify for the first annual
SUPERFAN competion, to be
held soon at Shea Stadium.

Don’t be discouraged if you
scored poorly, however. There’s
still a chance to redeem your-

selves.
Lacrosse.
NGTIECE
Mu Beta Psi, the music Fra-

ternity, will sponsor a concert by
the W&L Jazz Ensemble in Lee
Chapel Wednesday evening at 8.

 

 

 

lege or university.

 

1. Any one stereo LP or 8 track tape of your choice

RULES AND REGULATIONS

1. Contest open only to bonafide students of an accredited col-

Curtis Enterprises and New Era Records

present

Spring Get Away

OVER $10,000 IN PRIZES TO BE AWARDED!
YOU COULD WIN THE VACATION OF YOUR LIFETIME!

Grand Prize

Five, sunfilled days—four fantastic nights at the posh “Pier 66 Motel”
location to FT. LAUDERDALE!

10 Each Second Prizes

Three days, two nights at Holiday Inn, on the ocean, at FT. LAUDERDALE, FLORIDA.

i,

2. First-class round trip transportation from winner's
3. Honda rental bike during the duration of your stay!
4. Dinner for two at the fabulous “Pink Pussy Cat”!

5. Dinner for two at the “Windjammer”!

6. Dinner

7

8,

9, $100.00 cash — to spend as you please!

ii

2. Round trip transportation (from winner’s location).
3. Dinner for two at “The Windjammer.”

4, $25.00 credit account in your name at “She

5, $25.00 cash — to spend as you please,

1,000 Third Prizes

listed in the current New Era Records (

3. To register,
. Enclose

. Mail your

6.

. Winners will be selected by the W.A. Wilholt Corporation, an

independent judging organization, Winners will be selected
at random and the decision of the judges will be final. A list
of all winners will be available upon written request to New
Era Records.
print information in spaces provided on coupon.
$1.00 for processing and handling. Remit by check
or postal money order only PAYABLE TO:
“NEW ERA RECORDS-CEL”
registration to: NEW ERA RECORDS
254 KE. PACES FERRY ROAD N.E.
ATLANTA, GEORGIA 30305
Fentries

must be postmarked NOT LATER THAN March 8, 1974,

on the ocean at FT.

for two at “Pier 66’ — the world’s most fantastic supper club overlooking the beautiful blue ATLANTIC!
days a week!

$100.00 credit account in your name at “She’—the swingingest singles spot in Florida! Top name entertainment 7
$50.00 credit account in your name at “The Button”—Lauderdale’s leading after-hours oe

st >,

+t

+,

LAUDERDALE, FLORIDA!

  

atalog.

Mere lokefefeterle feof oleate Merle eof le of ole feof ote ote tert Oe fe oe ole ole ole ols fe ole ole fe ole skeet teats

ENTER NOW!

 

"t
%

 

: Curtis Enterprises — New Era Records *

% .

* = 2 |
*

ate j

‘I certify that I am a student at .. aS = :

% = = ] y, j

* (name of school)

* Og

% ate

Name hava Cee es 2 o

* es

i :

Oe a Se eS %

o %

% we

% es

% City state Z p

t
Og
* ‘.
zo hone
*

Ve Ve le te he te

He Me he ah ¥e aM Ft, y
% % ot “et wt ft “ft x “ *¢ *¢ yt ss +t + Ft vl as Vi ~e % *

+. * +, FF. 9.
Teele fee ete ofl eof ol

*

4 y, *,

.¢

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
Thursday,

March 7,

1974

 

Baseball squad readies for opener

By BILL AUSTIN

This past Saturday was a day
made to order for baseball, and
it coincided nicely with Coach
Lyles’ plans for a pair of inter-
squad scrimmages.

For a team pent up in the con-
fines of Doremus Gymnasium
since Jan. 20, the games played
exhibited both the potential of
the freshmen-dominated team,
and the difficulties of pulling to-
gether disparate, untested talents.

For Lyles, the role is quite
simply that of educator. He faces
the task of making the intricacies
of defensive and offensive play
the fluid, unthinking movements
of habit. Yet, in this, his sixteenth
spring-season with a _ General
team, he is clearly enjoying the
challenge.

“I think we’re ahead of the
game at this stage,” Lyles as-
serted after the final scrimmage
had been concluded. He admitted
that the quick progress was due

 

Hamric and Sheridan

: JEWELERS

| Watch and Jewelry Repair
Hand Engraving & Class Rings

463-2022

 

 

East Lexington
Grocery

Beer — Ice — Gas
Party Supplies — Snacks
Open 7 days a week
ABC No. 2078—8 a.m.-10 p.m.
SHOP FOR SUNDAY
EVENING DINNER
We Sell & Deliver Kegs

 

 

 

partly to the  unseasonable
warmth (75 degrees on March
2 ?!?), but also pointed to the

dedication toward practice ex-
hibited by the 31 players involved
in this year’s try-outs. “They’re
working hard.”

Surely the evidenced desire is
important for W&L’s chances to
match or better last year’s 11-12
won-lost mark. Because of the
graduation of many, including the
slugging Ellie Gutshall and short-
stop Doug Clelan, the current
squad must build its nucleus
on the talents of but a few vet-
erans.

Key to the inexperienced pitch-
ing corps is junior Rod Fer-
randino, a moundsman Lyles
praised lavishly for his cunnning
and control. “He mixes his pitches
well, and possesses an excellent
curve.” Ferrandino must supply
the stability, indeed, the maturity
of the staff. In addition, six
freshmen and a sophomore give
the team a potentially fine set
of hurlers.

In a moment of unchecked opti-
mism, Lyles remarked, “this
could be my best team. Maybe
not this year, but next. You
could say that I’m smiling a
hidden smile. The talent is there.”

Yet, he has reservations, and
should, for the schedule is de-
manding and his line-up is far
from set. Reviewing the list of
opponents, Lyles wrly observed
that “I can’t predict a number
of victories on paper. We may
lose a lot of games, We may not.
Mental errors, or rather, the lack
of them, will determine whether
or not we win ball games.”

To be sure, the difference be-
tween victory and defeat in base-
ball often comes down to a mo-
ment’s hesitation, to a lapse in
concentration. For a squad lack-
ing long-ball power, blazing speed,

Washington and Lee University

Bonkstore

Contact!

BOOKS BY
BUCHWALD

FRIEDKIN’S MOVIES
OREGON’S RECORDS

SOCSSSCSSESSESSSESS  SHCSCSHSHSOHESESESSEHSEHSHEESEECE

THE RING-TUM PHI Page 7
or abundant experience, the turned first baseman, apepars to
penchant to defeat oneself be swining a potent bat, collect-

through mental sloppiness could
easily make for a_ season of
frustration.

Undeniably, the talent is there.
Freshman SBen_ Bonaventura’s
skills at shortstop have been
particularly impressive in the
early stages. His fine showing has
enabled Lyles to move co-captain
Don Hathway to centerfield in
an effort to shore up the middle
of the team’s defense. John Rice,
basketball-playing soph recently

ing five hits in the scrimmages.
Junior Dave Otey seems a prime
candidate for third base chores.

Several positions are still up
for grabs. Perhaps the most
fiercely contested spot is at sec-
ond base, where as many as three
players have a shot at seeing
considerable action.

The team opens its 1974 sched-
ule with a visit from W.Va. Insti-
tue of Technology, Friday, March
15, at 3 p.m.

Lacrossemen open here Saturday

 

All-American Skip Lichtfuss (number
team in its opener Saturday against Morgan State at 2 p.m. on
Wilson Field.

30) leads the W&L lacrosse

Ms.

George's Hairstylist

We have four hair Stylists to serve you.
Emily is our newest addition.

Come by and get a
double Shampoo and hair shaping
finish off with a blow dry styling.

We take hair as serious as you do.
Operators: GEORGE, CAROL, BETTY, EMILY

Phone 463-3975

LLexington-Buena Vista Shopping Park
age 8 THE RING-TUM PHI

   
 
 

eee

Ss

Levi’s authentic western, shaped-to-fit jacket
in that “hard to find” indigo dyed denim.
Originally designed and built for

tough duty...now a fashion item too.
Match-up with a pair of Levi’s jeans for a
great “style suit” at small money.

Jacket, $12.68 (sizes 38 to 48)

Jeans from $8.40

DAVIDSONS |

123 West Nelson Street, Lexington

f
;
}
i
i
i
i
i
i

A ae ten ata tin ty

  
 

 
 

eae ile: ee

2
gwen cus

Thursday, March 7, 1974

 

      
   

 

 

 

 
The Ring-tum Phi

Washington and Lee University’s Weekly Newspaper
LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA, MARCH 14, 1974

Vol. LXXIII

Keatley, Scu

By ROBERT PUGH

Bob Keatley and Chris Scully
are competing in a run-off today
for student body vice-president.

Ben Bailey was elected presi-
dent and Mike Luttig secretary
Monday. Both are presently on
the EC.

The vote totals were: president:
Ben Bailey—429, Mark Mennel—
96; vice-president: Bob Keatley—
314, Chris Scully—247, Beb Sher-
man — 159; secretary: Mike
Luttig—457.

Class officers will be elected
Monday, March 25. President,
vice-president, and EC repre-
sentatives for each class will be
chosen. Three vice-presidents
will be elected from the senior
class, one each for arts, sciences,
and commerce. Any candidate
wishing his name on the ballot
should turn in a petition with
50 signatures to the EC Box
by 6 p.m. Monday, March 18.
Prospective candidates should
be at that night’s EC meeting.

The EC last Monday night dis-
cussed hiring a local law firm to
study the student body’s need for
legal services in three areas: 1)
to represent student government,
2) to advise individual students,

 

Sadie DuVergne Robert
Gaines, widow of Dr. Francis
Pendleton Gaines, president of
Washington and Lee Univer-
sity from 1930 to 1959, died
unexpectedly Monday in Stone-
wall Jackson Hospital here.

Funeral services were held
at 11 a.m. Wednesday in Lee
Chapel. Dr. David Sprunt pre-
sided over the service. Re-
memberance and gifts may be
made to the Francis P. Gaines
Scholarship Fund.

When Mrs. Gaines arrived in
Lexington in 1930, she was de-
scribed as “pleasant, gracious,
wholesome—just the kind of
president’s wife the students,
teachers, and people of Lexing-
ton want.”

When Dr. Gaines retired
from the presidency in 1959,
he and Mrs. Gaines built a
townhouse on Estill Street in
Lexington, and divided their
time between it and their
Rockbridge farm, ‘“Penrobin.”
After her husband’s death Dec.
31, 1963, Mrs. Gaines remained
in the city.

She maintained a deep in-
terest in Washington and Lee
up to her death, and continued
to entertain her friends—new
ones, some nearly a half-cen-
tury younger than she, as well
as old.

 

 

 

 

and 3) to provide prepaid legal
services. A committee of students,
professors, and administrators
will examine the problem. Law
school EC rep Harriet Dorsey will
chair the committee.

The Committee on Election Pro-
cedures chaired by law school
EC rep Tom King submitted its

Finally—ful

The Cockpit will probably be
serving full-strength beer next
year according to manager Mar-
shall Sumner.

“It is my hope we will con-
vert to 64 beer” Sumner said
Tuesday “and in all likelihood we
will have to.”

W&L_ students

ROTC corps to

Next Thursday afternoon the
front campus will be subjected to
the tramp of boots as the army
moves in to take things over. At
4 p.m. on the 19th the W&L
ROTC detachment will march in
review in its annual president’s
Day parade.

At this review the ROTC De-
partment will present awards to
cadets who have distinguished
themselves during the 1973-74
school year.

The students to be honored are
Robert Ford, Carey Chisholm,
Warren Look, William Baldwin,
Joseph Johnson, James Ferguson,
John Woodley, Timothy Perry,
Joel Williams, David Finnell,
Robert Propst, Malcolm Hastings,
Paul Holland, Kerry Scott, and
Dale Marden. What is left of the
corps will watch the awards be

have the Vir-

Make-up dates

set for spring

The Executive Committee of
the faculty has determined make-
up dates for the spring term
after the calendar was changed
to permit classes to start Tuesday,
April 16, rather than Monday,
April 15,

Classes scheduled for that Mon-
day afternoon (G-J hour) will be
held Friday afternoon, April 19.
Monday morning classes (A-F)
will be held Saturday morning.

The date of return from the
spring break was changed last
month by the University Council
to permit students to come back
to classes on a Monday rather
than a Easter Sunday,
April 14,

sslaca
gasiess

proposal Monday night. They sug-
gested an independent elections
board to man the polls, enforce
election procedures, and count
ballots. The EC unanimously
recommended the idea to next
vear’s EC.

Recruitmen Committee Chair-
man Gary Avery announced that

Number 20

ly in run-off

scholarship weekend is_ this
weekend and scholastic weekend
is next weekend. Deserving stu-
dents will be brought to the
school for a tour and a competi-
tion for scholarships.

The EC decided not to ask the
faculty to give it formal degree-

(Continued on page 8)

strength 6.4 beer

ginia General Assembly to thank
for the prospect of better times
in the Cockpit.

The assembly voted last week
to allow 18-year-olds to purchase
and consume beer having an alco-
holic volume of 6.4 percent.

Under existing law 18-29 years
olds may only purchase 3.2 beer,

march next week

presented by President Huntley.

There will be a thirty minute
concert beginning at 3:30 p.m. by
the W&L Jazz Ensemble to at-

tract attention to the proceed-
ings. The public is invited to
attend,

2

Washington and Lee trustee an¢
has recently been named by
tenial administration, Warner

 

 

the type served at the Cockpit.

Sumner said the switch to the
harder stuff might be manadatory
because the distilleries would
probably stop shipping 3.2 beer
into Virginia after the law goes
into effect July 1.

“Because of a different brewing
process 3.2 beer actually cost
breweries slightly more to pro-
duce than regular beer” Sumner
said.

Sumner said he would present
a proposal to the University this
spring to switch to 6.4 beer at
the Cockpit.

The decision will then rest with
President Huntley as to whether
next year the real thing will flow
from the taps at the Cockpit.

Navy Secretary John W. Warner
President Nixon to head the
was directed to

bicen.-

prepare a report

to the Cabinet on the plans for the celebration of the nation’s 200th
birthday. Mr. Warner received his B.S. from Washington and Lee

in 1949 and was appointed Secretary of the Navy in 1972.

He has

been a member of the board of trustees of Washington and Lee

since 1968,
Page 2 THE RING-TUM PHI

© cent oe enna ~

Disciplining the students

The case of the four students disciplined for the painting of the
statue of George Washington atop Washington Hall (see story else-
where in this paper) brings to the forefront the issue of student
discipline at Washington and Lee.

The four were told by the Student Control Committee to pay for
the cost of repainting the statue white, a penalty which follows
tradition as does the painting of the statue itself.

The penalty was accepted by the students after it was learned
they would be billed for only one coat of paint at a cost of more
than $110.

Such acceptance of a SCC decision is rather anomalous in the
scheme of student discipline at Washington and Lee. Indeed, the four
students were ready to appeal the decision to the Student Affairs
Committee, the board of appeals for SCC decisions, after estimates
for repainting the statue were first given at $250. SCC told the four
to pay the fine fully expecting the university to charge the full $250.

So if the four had appealed, they would have been following
the normal course of action at W&L. The SCC decides on a punish-
ment; the punishment is usually seen by those convicted as too
harsh; those who are punished appeal to the Student Affairs Com-
mittee; SAC lightens the penalty, leaving everybody happy, save
for SCC members.

What is anomalous here is that SCC is made up entirely of stu-
dents, while SAC is half student and half faculty. It is the student
disciplinary body which time after time levels what many (includ-
ing SAC) see as unreasonable penalty.

 

And the members of SCC are elected by the student body. The
members are presidents and vice-presidents of all undergraduate
classes and of the Student Bar Association of the law school.

Meanwhile, a faculty ad hoc committee has come out with a
report recommending the abolition of SAC. That committee would
be replaced by a Review Board, according to the committee proposal,
of the Dean of Students as non-voting chairman, two faculty mem-
bers of the University Council, and three student members of the UC.

While we applaud the ad hoc committee for asking for a student
majority on the Review Board, we must be a bit apprehensive. For
it has been SCC, composed mainly of students, which has been
administering penalties which SAC, half students and half faculty
and administration, has had the wisdom to reduce.

We sincerely hope the University Council, the executive committee
of the faculty, and the faculty itself all take a long, hard look at
the ad hoe committee report before taking action on it. For while
we favor a better opportunity for student input to be injected into
the “system” at W&L, we favor more highly the fair discipline of
students, be it administered by students or faculty or both.

—P.J.L.

Contact °74

From Heywood Hale Brown's first multi-syllabic word two-and-
a-half weeks ago in Lee Chapel, to director William Friedkin’s
promise last Thursday to send a batch of “The Exorcist” T-shirts to
W&L, Contact ’74 celebrated the symposium’s tenth year of existence
in grand fashion.

Co-chairman Chris Harris and Harrison Turnbull and their com-
mittee provided a popular, though only rudimentarily thematic,
symposium. The “Contemporary Communications” theme magically
appeared as the original theme of “Arts in the Twentieth Century”
slowly disintegrated because the committee chairmen only wanted
“big name” personalities, and nobody from the fine arts seemed
to qualify.

No matter what the theme, however, an estimated 2,300 persons
attended the four Contact presentations, and that figure would have
been higher had the State Theatre been able to set more than 650
persons. The program was, simply, a success,

—P.J.L.

On the ‘Big’ three elections

To call this year’s “Big Three” elections boring is like calling
Lexington a thriving metropolis.

The only election of note was that for the office of Executive
Committee vice-president, where junior Bob Keatley and Chris Scully
outpolled junior Ben Sherman to make today’s run-off. Otherwise,
what can be said when candidates for two of the “Big Three”
offices, as they are almost facetiously called, run unopposed?

Nonetheless, Ben Bailey and Mike Luttig were elected for presi-
dent and secretary of the student body, respectively, and both would
have had a good chance of winning even with opposition,

But as last year’s fiery contest has to this point produced little
action (and not because president Doug Schwartz hasn't at least been
trying to get some changes made), we hope this year’s less-than-fiery
election will produce some much needed action next year.

—P.J.L.

Thursday, March 14, 1974

 

EXAM PROCEDURE

Beginning Monday, obtain
from the Registrar’s Office an
examination envelope for each
of your classes and a schedule
form. The latter is for your
use in planning vour examina-
tion schedule.

Complete the top portion of
each envelope in accordance
with the schedule you plan.

Submit the examination en-
velope to the instructor for the
course at the first class meet-
ing on or after Monday, March

20.

previously designated by the
instructor where you will be
given your envelope and di-
rected to a classroom.

Upon completion, sign the
pledge at the bottom of the
envelope. Place the questions
and your answers in the enve-
lope and return to the place
of issue.

Failure to complete and sub-
mit an envelope prior to the
examination period prevents a
student from taking an exami-
nation.

Any student late for an ex:
amination may not expect time

At the time selected for your beyond the announced termi-
examination, go to the place nation of the scheduled period.

 

 

 

  

Ask Traveller

Q—What are vour feelings on the arts and crafts in Lexington?

A—You'll have to talk louder, I’ve got a boy scout in my ear. No,
seriously, I’m convinced that the less said about the matter the
better. Frankly, this business of growing and sewing one’s own
food and clothes sounds positively revolting. The three-day old
bananas at Krogers are bad enough without having to wear
them too. Why, I knew a man once who left the city and went
into the woods to build his own house. It took him five years
and the first day he moved in, the roof collapsed and killed
him while he was eating peanut brittle and reading California on
50¢ a Day by the Donner Party. Luckily, he had Mutual of Omaha
Cave-in and Mudslide coverage and today his widow lives com-
fortably in a swanky Manhatten townhouse. Now, the moral of
this tragedy is not simply to pitch a tent on campout, (and remem-
ber, the latrine goes outside the campsite, not directly in front
of the tent flap), but rather to think safety first when “doing
it yourself.”

Life is not a hobby that can be played around with and then
thrown away like a can of Bon Vivant vichyssoise, though there
may be some correlation between adolescence and food poisoning.
Life is a full-time affair, governed by inalienable ambitions such
as getting snorkled on sterno and vandalizing cemeteries during
rush hour.

A point of contention in this artsy/craftsy debate has been:
should an institute of higher learning, like W&L, offer credit
courses in the manual skills. How silly. Should a goose lay a
duck egg? Does the coyote have the vote in North Dakota? Can
a man with no shoulders wear suspenders? The answer, of
course, is no, the reason being that repairing a foreign car has
not been traditionally considered a part of higher learning since
Napoleon stripped his gears at Waterloo.
Such pursuits as woodworking and logrolling are nice if one
has the inclinations and can get a merit badge or two for doing
them. By the way, the Bauhaus movement in Germany, referred
to in a letter last week by an irate handyman, was nothing more
than Durwood Kirby’s campaign to provide every Bavarian house-
wife with a vego-matic and cap snaffler before the war. What
it has to do with arts and crafts I don’t now. Let’s just drop the
whole topic before the great ice age reappears and we're all
selling matches on the street corner.

Q—Any closing statement?

A—I tell you, I didn’t even know North Dakota was ours,

THE RING-TUM PHI

The Ring-tum Phi is published on Thursdays during the college year.
It is printed by the Journalism Laboratory Press, Washington and Lee
University. The mailing address is Box 899, Lexington, Virginia 24450.
Entered as second class matter September 29, 1946, at the Post Office,
Lexington, Virginia 24450, under the act of March 3, 1879. Subscription
rates: $6.00 for the school year, $3.00 for the semester.

PAUL J. LANCASTER ANDREW J. A. CHRISS

Editor-in-chief Business Manager
8 is Ba ea Jess Reeves
RN ei SG ae Bill Austin
ee ee Bill Robinson
ee, Be 8 a ta rea alia Rome Scott
ee ri ct os hk Ss eS David Lee
ie | FS aS a a Dave Finnell, John Killpack, Chuck Alt

Contributors .. : Tim Moore, Steve Yevich, Tom Rittenburg,
Bill Flesher, Paul] Morella, W. Patrick Hinely, John Zamoiski

 

 

 

 
Thursday, March 14, 1974

THE RING-TUM PHI Page 3

 

Inside-Out

By ROME SCOTT

LEXINGTON—William Friedkin didn’t even have horns when he
appeared at the State Theater Thursday night.

The director of the “Exorcist” put on a performance more than
suitable for the end of Washington and Lee University’s 1974 Contact
program. The theater-packing audience was alternately amused and
amazed by the man’s wit and insight as he talked about his theories
of making movies citing specific incidents in folming “The French
Connection,” “Boys in the Band” and the “Exorcist.”

“I’m a film director and I know that’s a great mystery,” Friedkin
said. “I tell a story.”

He said that his business is communicating, first with the people
involved in making a movie, and then, through them, with the
audience.

“There was a time when I felt that film was primarily a _ per-
sonal medium,” he said. “Now, I feel privileged to entertain an
audience.”

Friedkin said a film has to make them cry, laugh or scare or
it does not serve its purpose.

He started his career as a mailroom clerk at a Chicago television
station who became interested in program direction and “learned
by rote” after working hours watching the ways of the studio.

Within a year of beginning his job, Friedkin became a director
of live television shows.

After his television stint, he left Chicago to do film documentaries
until, in 1967, he directed his first full-length feature film.

Since then, he has directed such notables as “The Night They
Raided Minsky’s,” “The Birthday Party,” “The Boys in the Band,”
“The French Connection,” for which he won an Academy Award as
best director, and the “Exorcist.”

Friedkin said he believes there are two major influences on his
movie-making style: the devices used in making Orson Welles’
“Citizen Kane” and the theories behind Cubism.

“‘Citizen Kane’ is a quarry for film-makers,” he said. He added
that he has gone over the movie many times in minute detail to
learn as much from it as he could.

The influence of the style of the cubistic painters suggests depth,
a greater depth than two dimensions, he said. Using the principles
of cubism, Friedkin said he was able to give an illusion of depth in
a flat medium to such film sequences as the chase scene in “The
French Connection.”

He showed portions of the chase scene to point out how cubistic
montage, a combination of shots cut directly into each other, with
sound, creates the effect of the sequence.

“Editing is the language of film-making,” Frisdkin said. It was
the cutting of simple shots together that created the chase scene
which he meant to embody the character of Popeye Doyle, he said.

The idea for making the “Exorcist” came after he read the book

Oregon-Synthesizing a

by William Peter Blatty but he did not realize the book was based
on an actual case of demonic possession until he researched the
subject for the film.

Friedkin said, “Al demonic cases involve the same symptom of
possession.” He said that, if the case on which the movie is based
was not a case of demonic possession, then “it’s an inexplicable
disease for which there is no name.”

“It had to be a real film of inexplicable things,” he said about
his intention for making the movie.

The director showed a film clip made while trying the various
effects of tearing skin, a rocking room, lettering on a chest and
others seen in the final version of the movie.

The movie has been said to be obscene but this is not true,
Fiedkin said. The movie rating system “only regards sex, not violence
because violence, as we know, is taken for granted in this country,”
he said.

The reports that the movie has detrimental effects on some
wievers, he said, are not true. “If it’s possible for the news media
to blow this out of proportion, they will.”

% % me %

Back to music for music’s sake. A crowd at the Roanoke Civic
Center found that Chicago means more than a windy city in Illinois.
When the name pertains to an eight-man band, it means goodtime
music.

Despite equipment problems during the performance Friday
night, Chicago put on a personality-packed, professional and precise
showcase of the style that makes the group’s music something special.

The usual lead guitar, bass, keyboards and drums that make up
most groups are augmented by a horn section in Chicago, a horn
section so coordinated it sounds like one smooth, well-blended instru-
ment.

Those horns intermingle with the more basic backyard of the
other instruments to form a type of music that is disticntly Chicago.

Add that to the sensitivity of the vocals rolling out meaningful
lyrics and one has the kind of music that has fingers snapped to
it, hands clopped to it and is hummed all day long.

The group covered its musical history playing recent hits such
as “Saturday in the Park” and “Feeling Stronger Everyday” as
well as “I’m a Man” which is on its first album.

The songs ranged in genre from rock to reggae to ragtime and
rock and roll, exemplifying the versatility of music which is well:
planned but not contrived.

The sound was put together with vice-tightness and trucked out
by musicians who looked as if they enjoyed every minute of the
performance.

And even with the tightness of the sound, the music conveyed
a lightness, the breezy feeling of Chicago.
Madura also appeared Friday night.

musical heritage

By RICHARD JOHNSON

Five groups were nominated for
the jazz group Grammy this year.
Three represent jazz of the past:
Jim Hall and Ron Carter from
the sixties, Cannonball Adderley
unchanged from the fifties, and
Supersax doing Charlie Parker
solos from the late forties.

The future lies with the other
two. Chick Corea and Return to
Forever arrived just in time to
take the lead in electronic jazz-
rock from the defunct Mahavishnu
Orchestra and Weather Report,
giving it a Latin twist of their
own, They have strong competi-
tion from Herbie Hancock, and
probably from Larry Coryell’s
new group, The Eleventh House,
as well as from the former mem-
bers of Mahavishnu and Weather
Report.

With a little help from Eng-
land, where Soft Machine is an
exception among bands who excel
at songwriting and improvise
only occasionally, the new blend
of jazz and rock with synthesiz-
ers may become the dominant
musical expression of our time.

And what of Oregon, the fifth

nominee? First, the music they
make isn’t often jazz. If it has
affinities with any of the people
above it is with Josef Zawinul
of Weather Report and John Mc-
Laughlin of the Mahavishnu
Orchestra, whose formal com-
positions are akin in harmonic
style to those of Oregon’s chief
composer and guitarist, Ralph
Towner.

What they share is mostly pro-
gressive by thirds, rather than
the fourths, fifths, and seconds
of most tonal music. But the dif-
ference in instrumental medium
is extreme. Oregon uses no elec-
tronics, and no electric instru-
ments except a few bars of elec-
tric bass in one song.

Improvised music is always in-
fluenced by the capabilities of the
instruments; it is as much in the
players’ fingers as in their heads,
and music made with piano,
guitar, bass, oboe, tablas, and
congas is so different from that
made with electric pianos, electric
guitars, electric violins, synthe-
sizers, saxophones, and drums
that their overall structural simi-
larity is lost.

A crucial element of jazz is
also missing from Oregon’s music:
funk. Blues notes and the kind
of rhythmic irony generated by
the Black American experience
take fourth place to European
classical music, Arabic and Indian
music, and South American rhy-
thms among the constituents of
their style, or lack of it.

So Oregon is unique, as those
fortunate enough to be in Lee
Chapel last Wednesday know al-
ready. Four men, on their 15 or
20 instruments, make music
which synthesizes most of the
world’s musical heritage into a
pleasant pastoral evening. Music,
when not tied to words, has al-
ways been improvisational out-
side the West; notation and regu-
larization only became necessary
with the advent of polyphony, a
purely Western conception.

Most troubadour songs and half
of Machaut’s output as late as
the 14th century are written with
only one line, the accompaniment
to be supplied by the players.
Oregon’s materials for improvisa-
tion usually consist of harmonic
sequences as well as melodies as-

sociated with them.

The free improvisations (they
did two here) are another matter.
While the structured pieces take
about as generous a view of to-
nality and the possibilities of
sonority as Debussy, the free
pieces explore harmonic and tex:
tural styles as diverse as Ives,
Weill, Webern, and the late Stra-
vinsky. It is to Debussy and
Stravinsky that they are princip.
ally indebted, for the techniques
of continuity by ostinato and tonal
conflict among parts.

Oregon’s visit may have been
the most important musical
event here since the visit of the
Group for Contemporary Music in
1971, and this leads to the ques-
tion of the American avant-garde
Carter, Babbitt, Berger, Wuorinen,
Stewart et al have created a
music whose complexity and
drama of rhythm, harmony, and
texture seems forever beyond the
reach of improvisation. Whether
the best young musicians will
ever integrate the two will be the
major musical question for the
rest of the century,
Page 4

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

Transactional Anal

This is the last in a series of
articles exploring various per-
sonal services in the area avail-
able to Washington and Lee
students,

By DARRYL CARLTON
One final resource in the com-
munity are groups that meet to
develop interpersonal skills.
Three people involved in this
area of human relationship are

the Rev. Michael Dwinell, as-
sistant rector of —R. 6. hee
Episcopal Church, Cammie

Dwinell, his wife, and Ken Lane,
as assistant dean of W&L and
the head of University Services.
Rev. Dwinell says he is avail-
able for one-to-one counseling. He
also conducts 12-hour marathon
human relations experiences
when there is enough interest,
and lead groups in the theory
and practice of Transactional
Analysis at R. E. Lee Church.
Finally, he is a regional coordina-
tor in MATC, the Mid-Atlantic
Training Committee, which car-
ries out local and regional pro-
grams in human relation skills.
Transactional Analysis is taught
at the Episcopal Church by
Michael and Cammie Dwinell in
an eight week program, for one
night a week. Briefly, TA is a
relatively new psychology based
on individual responsibility and
awareness. Michael and Cammie
teach the program in two parts.
First, there is an eight-week
program to learn the language of
Transactional Analysis, which
the individual can then apply to
his own life. There is also a more
advanced program for those who
want to use TA learnings for
interpersonal growth in a group
setting. According to Rev. Dwinell,
“all kinds of people join this,
often from the W&L community.”
The present introductory group

has three W&L students in it, as
Well as students from Southern
Seminary. “The introductory
course was so popular this time
we had to split it into two di-
visions,” he commented.

Rev. Dwinell divided the groups
available to the W&L community
into three levels. The first level
is the weekly groups, such as
a TA group. The second level is
a weekend, often at Phoebe
Needles, a conference center of
the Episcopal Diocese, which is
composed of people mainly from
the area of Southwest Virginia.

The third level is the more
extensive program, Human Re-
lation Labs, sponsored by MATC
on a more widespread basis. Ac-
cording to Rev. Dwinell, the ex-
periential model of education is
used here. He defined this as
“Learning by doing and then re-
flecting on it.” He compared this
type of learning to that used by
a football coach who takes movies
of the team and shows them
What they did, and how they
could improve. These ideas are
then incorporated into the next
“practice.”

Experiential learning also in-
volves only the present, the “here-
and-now,” and in the groups the
past lives of individuals are not
a subject for discussion or inter-
action. In such groups relational
skills are learned, or as Rev.
Dwinell put it, “the question of
‘who am I, who are you, and who
are we together’.”

Rev. Dwinell emphasized that
such groups are not for the emo-
tinaily disturbed. To insure that
such people do not join such
groups, a person must fill out a
short but intensive application in
which questions are asked about
prior emotional difficulties, and
to which a statement must be

eeeeesesces

KEYDET-GENERAL -
Restaurant and Motel

Truly One of the South’s Finest
Superb Dining and
Picturesque Atmosphere.
Serving Food in the
Fine Tradition of Virginia.
For Reservations Phone 463-2143
Complete Facilities for
Banquets, Weddings & Receptions

 
   
   
  

FOR YOUR EXTRA PIECES OF FURNITURE

Varner & Pole

115 Main St. — Lexington, Va.

  

 

Thursday, March 14, 1974

attached from a human relations
trainer stating what in his/her
opinion such a person wants from
the human relations event. The
Rev. Dwinell called this applica-
tion, “one of the best I’ve ever
seen.”

Rev. Dwinell admitted that such
groups were artificial, in that be-
havior in them does not neces-
sarily correspond to that in the
real world. He stated that this
was, in fact, a good thing, and
commented “we don’t want to
turn people into lab freaks, but
to take what they have learned
about themselves back home and
perhaps make some new decision
based on the information gained
there.” Some other things they
may gain can be increased ability
to listen and to respond to other
people, increased esteem for them-
selves and others, and new ways
to handle old feelings. “This type
of training is not therapy, but it
may be therapeutic,” he com-
mented.

Cost of such programs may
vary from two dollars a session
for a TA group to 35 dollars for
a weekend at Phoebe Needles,
Which includes room and board
and staff expenses.

Rev. Dwinell also is available
as a consultant to groups which
he himself does not lead. He is
knowledgeable in decision mak-
ing skills and in the skills of
goal setting. In conclusion, he
commented, “These programs are
not for sick people who want
to get well, but for healthy people
who want to get better.”

Another community resource is
Ken Lane, director of University
Center. He is available for stu-

ysis offered

dent-originated group personal
growth worshops, he said. He is
also conducting a communications
workshop with Jim Worth, uni-
versity psychologist. In this group
everyone decides their own inter-
personal goals, then works to-
ward them as a group.

Ken plans to lead a class in
the spring, Religion 381, which
incorporates his ideas about what
liberal education should be. “It
see the class as an experiment,”
he commented. It will be an aca-
demic course, but will differ from
other courses in that it will
“Challenge the students to relate
to the material personally” and
to “assume responsibility for their
own learning.”

Ken sees the purpose of a lib-
eral art education as teaching
flexibility, creativity, and social!
and person responsibility.” He
stated that he would like to see
more of this at W&L, and feels
that most students and teachers
are over-involved in academic
rather than in personal growth.
“The ability to think and to
synthesize is more important
than knowledge of any single sub-
ject” he continued. Using this as
a basis for a theory of learning,
he sees the Rev. Michael Dwinell,
Jim Worth, the unversity psy-
chologist, and Terry Wingfield,
the university psychiatrist, as re-
sources for the education of the
“whole man.”

WLUR

91.5

 

The Alexander-Withrow House

3 WEST WASHINGTON STREET

A restored historic landmark with five period-furnished guest suites.
A different experience in overnight hospitality for those who love
fine things. Students may make reservations for their parents and
tour the house from 10-2 Tuesday through Saturday or write Mrs.

Harriet Thomas.

 

Also: Expert repair work on all bikes;
Parts for all bikes;

A large selection of accessories.
(Don’t forget our $10.00 Special Spring Overhaul)
130 S. Main St.

Open: 10-5

The Lexington Bicycle Shop

Featuring:
FUJI & BATAVUS BIKES

Two of the most respected names in bikes.

 
       
   
  
   

Monday-Saturday

  

 
Thursday,

March 14, 1974

THE RING-TUM PHI

Page 5

 

A new fine arts center,
What exactly do we need?

, JESS REEVES

It te Seca apparent to many
members of the campus commun-
ity that a new fine arts center
is needed, the sooner the better.
Doug Schwartz attempted to im-
press this fact upon the Board
of Trustees at their recent meet-
ing in Tuscaloosa, Alabama. It is
easy enough to say that a fine
arts facility is needed, but what
exactly should such a building in-
clude?

According to the director of the
drama program at Washington
and Lee, Professor Lee Kahn,
“We need a theatre!” What he
refers to is a facility which will
satisfy the demands of a grow-
ing department. The requirements
for continuing a quality fine arts
program must be understood in
terms of the goals of the depart-
ment in question. These are de-
scribed in the self study of the
music and drama departments
completed one year ago.

The drama program at Wash-
ington and Lee serves two pur-
poses. First, it has a general re-
sponsibility to the community to
serve in an educational capacity.
This is accomplished by offering
various productions in which stu-
dents and faculty may participate
actively or as members of the
eudience.

This function is at present be-
ing served by the university
theatre but only within severe
limitations, The facilities definite-
ly limit the choice and method of
production.

The second purpose of a theatre
facility here is the training of
those who are interested in
theatre as a career or course of
study. In most respects the pres-
ent facility falls far short of what
is needed.

To continue to improve the pro-

gram a larger and more flexible
stage required, one which
would allow both actor and di-
rector greater freedom. For ex-
ample, more wing space, a much

higher proscenium arch, and ac-
cess from one side of the stage to

Dry Cleaning

Linen Service

WE DELIVER

Storage & Free Moth Proofing

the other without having to go
behind scenery are all necessary.

The auditorium for such a fa-
cility need not be large and a
capacity of 250 should prove ade-
quate. What is important to the
department is flexibility for both
the stage and the auditorium.
Seating arrangement and floor
levels should be adjustable.

Other important facilities are
desirable as well. Such a center
should have a sound proof scene
shop, adequate space for prop and
costume storage, a costume shop
equipped to make costumes, and
lighting and_ sound facilities
which are necessary to a com-
plete theatre.

Additional classroom space is
desirable to meet the increasing
demand of students who are in-
terested in drama. Currently,
History of Theatre is taught in
the lobby. This arrangement

creates crowding and discomfort
to both the teacher and the class.

Acting classes are also taught
in the lobby of the university
theatre. Rehearsal studios should
be available for this purpose and
not make-shift areas. A laboratory
theatre should be included to give
a permanent home base for small
and student directed productions.

Classrooms are special facilities
are nonexistant at this point. The
faculty of the drama department
feels that the present structure is
being utilized to the very fullest
extent. A new fine arts facility
is needed so the program can
continue to grow and keep a-
breast of student demands upon

the department.

The trustees will have their
chance to see the inadequacies of
the theatre when they come to
W&L for their spring meeting.

Student artists fined

The four students responsible for painting George Washington’s
statue blue on Fancy Dress Weekend has reimbursed the schoo] for

the repainting of the statute.

They appealed the decision of the Student Control

Committee

which called for them to pay for the damage, $250 worth. A com-
promise, was found and it required the painters to pay for one coat
of paint for George. This amounted to $114.84, whereas the $250 figure
was an estimate for two coats of paint. The University will cover the
cost of the second coat of paint as a maintenance expense.

Students, faculty, administration, and alumni showed support for
the action of the four students by contributing the full $114.84.

Paul’s Bike Shop

New St., Staunton
Phone 886-1310
PAUL Now Accepting All
BIKE REPAIRS at
Sears’ Lexington Store
Pick-Up Every Wednesday
Returned On Wednesday.
Also New 10 Speeds Batavus
Bikes For Sale.

11 2X.

SSOCSOESEHEKCGETEESCEHESCSECEEECESEECSSESCHOCESEECOESEEOEE

UNIVBRSi7T YX
CLEANERS

Reliable Service In

Shirts Laundered

Clothing Repair

463-3622

 

  

Wendell’s
Barber Shop

OPEN 9-6

9 South Jefferson

 
    
  

   
 
 

Closed Wednesday

The Richmond. Sinfonia
Slated to perform here

A concert next Wednesday,
March 20, by the Richmond Sin-
fonia will conclude the Rock-
bridge Concert-Theatre Series’
26th season,

The program will take place at
8:15 in Jackson Memorial Hal! at
Virginia Military Institute.

The Sinfonia’s program wil! in-
clude works by Johann Christian
Bach, Domenico Cimarosa,
Wagner, Dvorak and Walter
Cohrssen.

COMBINATION DEGREES

Any present junior who plans
to enter the Law School next
September in order to obtain a
Combination Degree (Bachelor of
Arts in Combination with First,
Year Law or Bachelor of Science
in Commerce in Combination
with First Year Law) in May 1975
must file his degree application
with the Registrar on or before
March 29. This is necessary be-
cause al] academic requirements
for the degree must be satisfied
before the student enters the Lew
School.

 

The Washington and Lee

Stamp
Issued April 12, 1949.

Plate Blocks—46c
Per 10—$3.50 Sheet—$3.50
RTE. 1, BOX 241
On Rte. 60, 9 mi. W. of Lexington

Leo Cavanaugh 463-7061

 

 

East Lexington
Grocery

Beer — Ice — Gas
Party Supplies — Snacks
ABC No, 2078—8 a.m.-10 p.m,

SHOP FOR SUNDAY

We Sell & Deliver Kegs

Open 7 days a week

EVENING DINNER

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

X

7TUDENTS

Make this your headquarters for Good Food

and Service

We have meal tickets at savings to you

SOUTHERN INN

 

 

 
Page 6 THE RING-TUM PHI

 

   
 

THE RING-TUM PHI

    

W&L ranked 4th in lacrosse poll

1 W&L 150
5. Cornell 135

In a pre-season poll released
March 11, the U. S. Intercollegiate
Lacrosse Association ranked
Washington and Lee University
fourth nationally. Not  surpris-
ingly, the University of Maryland, The
defending lacrosse champion, re-
ceived each of the nine first-place
votes cast and headed the list
with 180 points.

LACROSSE NOTICE
» student activities board
is arranging for a bus to go to
the lacrosse game between the
Generals and Navy on March
23. The bus will leave the Uni-
Of interest, three of the top versity Center at 7:00 a.m.
ten squads named — Virginia, March 23 and will return that
Navy, and Princeton — are to evening. The cost is $1.00 per
be played by the Generals in person for the round trip.
regular season competition. The The S.A.B. needs to have the
complete list of the country’s names of the people who are
toughest follows: going as well as their cash by
1. Maryland—180 points Monday, March 18. Please call
2. John Hopkins 171 Kevin Twillman at 463-3861 to
3. Virginia 157 make reservations.

Take us up.

There’s a place for you on
Piedmont. For a weekend of
fun, a game out of town, a
quick trip home, whatever —
there’s a Piedmont jet or
propjet flight to fit your
plans. With personal,
thoughtful service always.
Piedmont —serving over 75
cities including Chicago,
New York, Washington,
Norfolk, Atlanta, Memphis
Call us, or your travel age
We've got a place for you.

Piedmont
Airlines |

     

 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
   

: Youth Fares to Europe!
: SEE LEXINGTON'S :
: Travel Unlimited :
‘ 21 W. Washington :
3 for information °

Thursday, March 14, 1974

W&L hockey fanatics
bring the game south

By BILL AUSTIN

Hockey lives, indeed flourishes
in this seeming southland strong-
hold. The sport’s existence on
campus may be news to some,
but to the 30-35 W&L students
who have, since December band-
ed together for a bith of this
winter-time exuberance, it has be-
come something special.

Actually ,the urge to don skates
and to wield a stick in pursuit
of an elusive puck is not a novel
one, For the past copule of years,
a dedicated few have sought a
time and a place to play hockey,
often settling on the less-than-
ideal facilities at the Natural
Bridge Ice Rink.

However, this past November,
W&L senior Ken Daniels under-
took a serious effort to unite
those interested in hockey into a
loosley-knit club, hopefully pro-
viding the basis for a more
extensive sort of program in fu-
ture years. Since an initial turn-
out of but 15 devotees before
Thanksgiving, the club has at-
tracted increasing support. Close
to 20 students have participated
in the weekly excurisions to Na-
tural Bridge, and on four occa-
sions have pooled their resources
to rent ice-time in the Roanoke
and Salem Civic Centers.

To be sure, finances have re-
lentlessly badgered the endeavor.
Equipment is scarce, expensive.
Jersey purchased from Pres
Brown’s cost a cool $16. Ice-
time is hotly contested because
of the general growth of valley
interests in hockey. It rental
means the expenditure of from
$25 to $30 per huor.

Yet, the club is thriving, if
enjoyment can be taken as a mea-

sure of success. “We play for
fun...Anybody can participate,
and everybody who comes to our
inter-squad scrimmages plays,”
asserted Daniels. And to date, the
affair has been bloodless. “Until
the proper equipment is ours, we
will play hockey with caution.”

Though the talents involved are
disparate, the club has been uni-
fied by its members’ common zeal
for the game. Surely, it is sport
on the most elementary, yet
satisfying level.

Still, the money problem per-
sists. The club has been approach-
ed by the Roanoke Valley Adult
Hockey Program to field a com-
petitive league squad for next
season. At present, a few W&L
students take part on a fill-in
hasis in the four-team league.
However, chances for a repre-
sentative W&L squad appear
quite dim.

“The expenses for all the equip-
ment needed in league play are
staggering.” Daniels posited, then
added, ‘‘and those Roanoke guys
are tough...”

The club’s future course seems
upward. Next year, it is hoped
that members will meet in Sep-
tember, and that a dues system
will be employed in order to make
possible regular scheduling of
scrimmages. As the graduating
Daniels put it: “This year was
just a start. A nucleus of under-
ciassmen, 20 guys, will carry it
from here, garnering more prac-
tice-time, more equipment. VMI
has started a hockey club of its
own. Who knows, maybe we'll
play them before too long.”

If enthusiasm determines any-
thing, hockey is here to stay.

Washingion and Lee University

#uonkstore

THE TOOLS OF
YOUR TRADE

ELEMENTS OF STYLE

A MANUAL FOR WRITERS OF
TERM PAPERS

MLA STYLE SHEET —Modern Language Assn.
AMERICAN HERITAGE DICTIONARY

—Both paper and hardcover editions

9000600888000 08006 '9909080009000800808008902808068

—Strunk & White

—Turabian

 

 
Thursday,

Stickmen

March 14, 1974

win,

ranked fourth

By BILL FLESHER

Every year there are students
who come to Washington and Lee
who have never seen a lacrosse
game.

Their questions range from
“What game does lacrosse most
resemble?” to “Is a lacrosse face-
off like a hockey faceoff?” to “Do
they really hit people with those
sticks?”

This year the veteran fans will
tell the newcomers stories about
the season past—about the Vir-
ginia and Navy wins, about the
strength and speed of NCAA
champion Maryland, about some
of last year’s great individual per-
formances.

An often told tale was the story
of a shot—the cannon-like shot of
All-American Ted Bauer.

“Ever see Bob Feller’s fast
ball?,” an older fan once asked.
“Bauer’s shot is even faster.”

Another fan would give advice.
“Don’t blink when Bauer has the
ball, or else vou might miss
something.”

And so the newcomers went to
Wilson Field Saturday to see their
first lacrosse game. And to see
the “Bauer crank.”

It was only fitting that “Teddy
Bear” should score the Generals’
first goal of the 1974 season—on
a crank no less—pleasing the fans
voth old and new, and sparking
a seven goal first period barrage
that sent W&L toward a. 16-4

 

Hamric and Sheridan
JEWELERS

Watch and Jewelry Repair

| Hand Engraving & Class Rings

| 463-2022

 

 

  
 
      
    
  
 
 
  

  

Call ov write for the Sumuzer Bulletin;
Su ines Session Office, CW. Post Center
Bs 2 sand University, Greeavaie, Led.
pe es 5b 299-2437 ae

CW, POST CENTER of long ier University

thrashing of outclassed Morgan
State.

As did the fans, W&L head
coach Jack Emmer liked what he
saw.

“We're way ahead of where we
were at this time last year,”
Emmer said after the game. “We
were able to run our fast break
well, our passing was good for
this early in the year, and our
defense, though never seriously
challenged, looked very good.”

The college division coach-of- ;

THE RING-TUM PHI

the-year two years running hast- %

ened to add that he doesn’t ex-
pect his forces to rest on their
early laurels.

“If we’re as good as we're
gonna be in our first game, we’re
not going to have a good season,”
Emmer said. “The key this season
is improvement, from day to day,
from week to week. If we don’t
bother to improve, well, you know
what. will happen.”

Attackmen Dave Warfield and
Don Carroll led the scoring with
three goals each. Along with All-
American Bryan Chasney, Bill
Rienhoff, and freshman Roger
Rvdell, they make up the attack
corps which will show a slightly

said, “We will also run a non-
crease attack, in which we’ll use
a lot of picks, and from which we
expect a lot more movement up
front.”

All-Americans Bauer and Skip
Lichtfuss anchor what Emmer
termed “a deeper but inexperi-
enced” group of midfileders.

different look from last year, ac- Four freshmen are among the
¢ yrding to Emmer. top nine middies, which gives
“At times we'll run our ‘crease- 9 Eamer basis for his “inexperi-
oriented’ attack, the one we ran need” tag.
With Sam Englehart last year. “The talent is there, that’s for
This year Rienhoff will be on the = sure,” Sener said of his mid-
crease in this attack,’ Emmer (Continued on page 8)
LELEEE ELE EEE EERE EEE ESSE TESTS TELE FETE TESTES
~ fe
ve . . %
; The First Nationa! Bank
. +
: of Lexington *
% @ : Og
3 has special checking accounts for students ;
% +
ert ole nie osteo ofenfe rte fe fe se nfo fe ale afe afente oe sone sone nfo she feos oe fe fe of oleae ne ae fe ale eens oe ole ale ale fete

 

graduate courses .. . special institutes and _
workshops ... good teachers... reside
. sone of America’s most beautiful ca

2 SESSIONS: June 24-July 26 and
July 29-August 30 ( say and ev ening) |

 

  

 
 

  

scoettsteteteees

ape an aeteen cetomailaaamtes. A

LOWEST
JET FARES
TO EUROPE

of any scheduled airline
from from
NEW YORK | CHICAGO

‘187 |'228

One way to Luxembourg
through May 31

Effective for individuals
on scheduled jets to Lux-
embourg in the heart of
Europe. SAVE $72 to $101
on overseas stays of over
45 days against lowest
comparable fares of any
other scheduled airline.

SHOW INITIATIVE!
SAVE MORE MONEY!

Students can arrange their
own Affinity Groups of 25
Or more passengers and
qualify for Icelandic’s low-
est-cost one-way affinit
fares. No other airline of-
fers one-way affinity fares.
SAVE via Icelandic no mat-
ter when you leave or how
long you stay.

SEE YOUR TRAVEL AGENT.

Prices subject to change.

To: Icelandic Airlines
630 5th Ave., N.Y., N.Y. 10020
(212) 757- 8585

Send folder CN on Lowest
Youth Fares to Europe (J

Name

 

Street
City
SPD isis

 

 

 

My travel agent is

ICELANDIC
AIRLINES

 

 

POA AA 3 IW 60000 6a Ie oe AS

 

 
Page 8

THE RING-TUM PHI

Thursday, March 14, 1974

Lacrosse team tops Morgan State, faces Mt. Washington Saturday, March 16

(Continued from page 7)
fielders. “Once they get some
playing time together, they’ll be
very tough. It’s just a question
of how long that will take.”

Bauer, John Lalley, and fresh-
man Jay Monahan make up the
“blue” midfield. The “red” line
combines junior Ken Miller with
a pair of freshmen, Mick Kohlen-
stein and Ralph Baugher, while
Lichtfuss centers the “green” mid-
field with freshman Jack Dudley
and senior Jim Stieff.

Chasney will also run with the
green midfield, depending on the
attack strategy Emmer employs.

Bauer, Baugher, and Lichtfuss
will handle faceoff duties for their
respective midfields.

Defensively, Emmer must fill
the shoes of All-American Dan
Eavenson, who graduated last
vear. Back are co-captain Jim
Farrar and Rob Lindsey, who

wrong

 

1. arranging to attend the summer rtraining session at Ft. Knox, Ky. (pays about $400 plus all expenses for

six weeks) and

2. arranging to take military science during your junior and senior years at W&L (pays $100 per month dur-

started as a freshman last year.
Freshman Tom Keigler, who look-
ed extremely good in the season
opener, will hold down the num-
ber three spot. Also to see action
on defense are two more fresh-
men, Steve White and Steve Di-
Biagio.

Skeet Chadwick, the other co-
captain, will again be in the nets
for W&L. An All-American last
year, it was Chadwick who gave
the fans some of last vear’s big-
gest thrills with his hair-raising
saves in the Virginia and Navy
games. Backing Chadwick up will
be soph Malcolm Hastings and
freshman Todd Galvin.

Of the 32 varsity players, 17
are first-year men, 14 of those
are freshmen. Here Emmer sees
a potential problem.

“We must unify ourselves into
a team quickly,” Emmer §said.
“You don’t win lacrosse games on

)

e
)
mn
y
(ba)
|
|
Ly
|
\
’
Lal

You can take two years off this summer by:

ing the school year).

Why would you want to?

sheer individual effort. We know
we can become a team, the ques-
tion is, how long will that take?”

The season opener served sev-
eral purposes. It gave Jack
Emmer an indication of just how
far along the unification process
is. It gave the veteran fans their
frist 1974 chance to see their
stickmen back in action. It gave
the new fans an introduction to
the game they had heard so much

about,
And it proved that “the crank”
is not a myth.

UPCOMING FILMS
March 14—Steambot Bill, Jr. du-
Pont 7 and 9 p.m. Free.

March 14-15—Dead Birds (Reid
203, 7:30 pm. Free.
March 15-16—Superfly, duPont,

7 and 9 p.m. $1.00.

March 19—The Lodger, duPont.

}
}
}
}

|

LJ
:
LJ

(
‘
Ld
i

Hey sophomore: Would you like to....
TAKE TWO YEARS THIS SUMMER?

... You think Army ROTC is a 4 year, locked-step course. Right?

... You didn’t sign up first term freshman year, and now you can’t. Right?

A © Because the challenge and responsibility of leading men appeals to you.

B — Because the chance for full ROTC scholarships (52 will be awarded to young men like you at Ft. Knox

this summer) interests you.

oa

were commissioned and all scholarship cadets are eligible.

D i

learn how you can help.

E (J
F © All of the above

(Deadline for application: April 15, 1974)

|

|

|

Mi

tT

‘

|

1d

(re)
=~ 5}

Runoffs today

(Continued from page 1)

withholding power for honor
violations. Under a proposal now
being studied by the faculty, the
Student Control Committee and
the University Council would
have similar authority in disci-
plinary cases. Several EC mem-
bers expressed serious doubts
the idea, pointnig out that the
person involved would already
have faced a trial elsewhere and
that he would no longer be at
W&L anyway, and therefore there
was no advantage in “kicking
out” someone who was already
gone.

Next week:
Petitions due at 6 p.m. Monday
in the EC box; further discussion
of student body lawyer; discus-
sion of poster regulations.

22 eee

Ses eseS

r2s2s3e3

res

x=, =

=:

Because you know Nick Grant and Dale Rhodes were awarded full Army fellowships last year when they
Because the Army has helped keep America free for Americans for almost 200 years and you want to

Because you think that perhaps you should consider a military career as one of your alternatives.

Why not ask what it’s all about?
Lieutenant Colonel Louis P. McFadden

and his staff in the Military Science Department

would be happy to answer any of your questions.

 

 
The Ring-tum Phi

Washington and Lee University’s Weekly Newspaper
LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA, MARCH 21, 1974

Vol. LXXIII

 

Winners in last week's Big Three elections: junior Ben Bailey, president; junior Bob Keatley, vice-presi-
dent; sophomore Mike Luttig, secretary. Other Executive Committee offices and class office positions

will be filled in elections next Monday.

—Photo by Robinson

Elections on Monday
for EC, class offices

By PAUL MORELLA

Elections for Executive Com-
mittee representatives and Class
Officers will be held on Monday,
March 25, with run-off elections,
where necessary, scheduled for
Wednesday, March 27. Students
may vote in the Freshman Quad,
Washington Hall, the Co-op, and
the Law School.

Students who are running for
EC (2 representatives from each
class) are as follows: Sophomore
EC: Ben Lowe, Dan Scott, Dan
Westbrook, Scott Franklin, and
Sandy Stradtman; Junior EC: Ken
Holda, Al Zipp, Ben Barton, Le-
land McCullough, Ted Reeds, Bob
Pugh, and Tim Moore; Senior EC:
Eric White, John Ratzel, Bill

 

Entries are now being ac-
cepted for the Mahan Awards
in creative writing competi-
tion.

Awards will be made in
freshman (two awards), a
sophomore and junior prose

and in poetry submitted by an
undergraduate except seniors.
Awards consist of a $100 de-
duction in tuition for the 1974-
75 school year.

All entries must be submit-
ted by noon, April 30, to the
secretary of the English De-
partment. Awards will be de-
cided in May.

For further information,
contact the English Depart-
ment in Payne Hall.

 

 

 

Biesel, Ben Sherman, Woody Ray,
and Pres Simpson; Law KC:
Steve Robinson, Bill Judge, and
Sally Green.

Candidates for Class Officers
are as follows: Sophomore Presi-
dent: Jim Koch, Bob Carpentier,
and Ken Walter; Sophomore Vice-
president: Tom Hunter and Mike
Monahan; Junior President: Sam
Brown, Gary Seldomridge, and
Jay Durrivage; Junior Vice-presi-
dent: Mike McColloch and Billy
Moomaw; Senior President: Bow-
man Williams and Chris Scully;

Commerce School Vice-president:
Matt Calvert, Dave Lee, and Buzz
Walters; Arts School Vice-presi-
dent: Spence Heddens and Bob
Morecock; and Science School
Vice-president: Gardner Britt and
Dave Rigby.

The President and Vice-presi-
dent of each class automatically
become members of the Student
Control Committee, the Student
Planning and Development
Committee, and are each in
charge of a major social week-
end.

Two students arrested

on charges of streaking

Last weekend two Washington
and Lee stuednts were arrested
for streaking by local authorities.

Bill T. Tiers, sophomore at
Washington and Lee, was arrest-
ed Friday night by Paul Smothers
of the Lexington Police Depart-
ment when he allegedly streaked
from his apartment down Main

Street. Tiers is out on bail at
this time.
Shortly after midnight last

Sunday John Keefe, also a sopho-
more here, Was arrested by Lex-
ington policeman Danny Moore
for allegedly streaking The Corner
Grill.
Keefe friend
around

streaked with a
through the restaurant

one o'clock a.m. Upon leaving the
establishment he was apprehend-
ed by police who chased him to
his room in Nelson House and
arrested him there. The officer
allowed Keefe to dress before he
was taken down to the station.
The second streaker was not
caught,

Keefe was charged with inde-
cent exposure and was released
on $35 bond within an hour of
his arrest. His trial has been set
for Tuesday, March 26, at 9:30
a.m,

No official statement has been
from the second floor of
Washington Hall at this time.

nade

Number 21

EC to retain
lawyer, debate
Honor System

By ROBERT PUGH

The EC voted Monday night to
retain a student body lawyer.

Thomas Spencer of the firm
Spencer and Crawford was retain-
ed to give legal advice to student
government organizations and
will address the students in three
of four talks. The retainer is $200,
and will extend for a one year
period.

Additionally, the EC is looking
into the feasibility of a prepaid
legal system, in which students
would receive legal advice. The
Legal Research Staff will investi-
gate the possibility for $50, as
will an EC-appointed committee.
The administration will be asked
to print a handbook of Virginia
laws especially relevant to stu:
dents. This would be used at next
vear’s freshman orientation.

Petitions were submited for
class offices (see separate article
for candidates). The election is
Monday, March 19, and the run-
off is Wednesday, March 21. Polis
are open from 9 a.m. to 4 p.m
in the Quad, Co-op, Washington
Hall, and law school. Tearing
down posters is a possible Stu-
dent Control violation.

Student Body President Doug
Schwartz said some students are
working on a proposal to have a
one-year suspension option for
honor violations. He vowed that
he would discuss the idea at
every EC meeting until the end
of the year. Schwartz wants 2
student referendum.

Some EC members questioned
the legality of such an idea, say-
ing that such a move could not
be made in this manner. They
thought the EC had the sole
jurisdiction over the honor sys-
tem, Senior Lewis Powell specu-
lated that the by-laws of the uni.
versity could be interpreted in
such a way that only the trustees

could remove the penalty. The
matter will be discussed next
week.

Mike Brittin, Student Activities
Board Chairman, said his group
is presently working on Spring
Weekend, April 26-27. They are
also providing buses for out-of-
town lacrosse games. He said
Fancy Dress cost less than $1500

Brittin called attention to the
Outing Club’s activities, citing
their planting of 3,000 trees at a
nearby lake.

John Killpack reported for his
poster regulations committee (see
separate article for listing of
regulations). The rules take effect
at the beginning of the spring
term.
THE RING-TUM PHI

OUTLOOK and REVIEW!
A letter FROM the editor

Going over the Ring-tum Phi’s budget last Monday with the
Executive Committee, president Doug Schwartz asked me a simple
yet seemingly unanswerable question.

Is the Ring-tum Phi worth what the students pay for it?

As a point of information, the student tax allocation to the Phi
is some $4,000 this year. This amounts to just less than $3 per
undergraduate student. Law schoo] students, rather than paying
the Phi, pay for the tri-weekly Law News.

That amounts to a bit more than ten cents per Phi.

As a matter of contrast, each undergraduate pays about $4.97
for the student yearbook, the Calyx, a dollar for the student literary
magazine, the Ariel, $3 for Contact, about 69 cents for the Executive
Committee, and a sum for other various items. In addition, based
on next year’s $30 student body tax, students will pay approximately
$11 for the Student Activities Board, according to our estimates.

I know that students are at least picking up nearly all the 1300
copies of the Phi distributed on campus. But is everybody who picks
up a Phi, who pays through his student tax for the Phi, getting his
ten cents worth?

That is the job which was assigned to me upon my appointment
last year—to get people to read the Phi, to get their collective ten
cents worth. And as my regime slowly draws to a close (applications
for next year’s editor will be due in the spring term), I have to
look back and assess what the Phi has accomplished, whether the
Phi is worth what students pay for it, as Schwartz asked.

If success of the paper were measured by the number of enemies
I’ve made or the number of persons I’ve irritated this year,
then there’s no question about it—if that were so, then the Phi
was a roaring success. But that is a measure by which I cannot
calculate the Phi’s success, save perhaps on a certain level.

My problem just may be that I have failed to influence, to be
of interest beyond that aforementioned level—the level of those I
have “attacked” this year. That level is one of those in power, and
not, I fear, of the “common man” of the campus. Perhaps even now,
this column is being read only by those persons who are affiliated
with the campus “power structure.” Maybe those I should be trying
to reach aren’t even reading this. Perhaps the majority of this
campus, the majority which I should try to appease, doesn’t read
the editorials; perhaps the majority is only concerned with the sports
pages, or with what relatively little that is front page news in the
Phi.

I thought I indicated at the beginning of the schoo] year what
my position on this issue is. I said the Phi welcomed comments
and criticism of content in the Phi, and I most certainly welcomed
students to take an active role in writing for the Phi. And further-
more, I have all but begged students with opposing views to those
of the Phi to write letters to the editor. My one goal when I took
over as editor was to get diverse student input into the paper.
Perhaps it is there where I have failed.

The Phi was called “sophomoric” by one individual, “childish.”
Looking back at some of the articles run this past year, I would
have to agree as far as those specific articles are concerned. Then
why did I run those sophomoric articles? Because of lack of student
input, either through reporting for the Phi or writing letters to the
Phi.

I gladly would have disgarded those “childish” articles for a
reasonably sane letter, or any other kind of input, from students.
But little came.

1 gladly would run a paper full of letters to the editor, if their
content was of any substance whatsoever. I have tried to raise “the”
issues on this campus editorially; maybe I have. But apparently the
copy of the paper as a whole fails to raise issues. Perhaps more
student input would.

I have invited letters to the editor; hardly any have come,
particularly from those students who proclaim the childish and
sophomoric nature of the paper.

I thus return to where I began this editorial:

Is the Phi worth what students pay for it?

In terms of basic information and news, I think the Phi this
year has paid at least half its worth. The other half lies in the
other values of the Phi to its readers—whether it’s sophomoric,
whether it’s childish. I think the Phi, based on those values, is
well worth a dime a copy.

And, damn it, if you don’t agree with me, why don’t you get off
your ass and type up a letter to the editor for next week’s issue?

—P.J.L.

 

 

Vote in Monday’s elections

for EC and class offices

Thursday, March 21, 1974

LETTERS TQ THE .

The role of the Phi

Sir:

I must preface this humble
offering with a formal declara-
tion of druthers. I druther ad-
dress my remarks to a dynamic
newspaper, staffed not only with
intrepid journalists but with
plump, juicy coeds to temper the
desires of those resolute report-
ers. (I do not mean exchange
students or transfer students,
gentlemen; I actually meant co-
eds: the real, live kind envisioned
by such semanticists as Messrs.
Merriam, Webster, and Barnhart.)

However, I must not ask for
too much too soon, For, I’m
afraid, doing so would undoubt-
edly leave me unprotected against
charges of lazy cynicism or other
insolent behavior. Therefore I
shall keep dreaming, and (excuse
me but I feel I do have the
right to keep) bitching.

It is my honest hope that the
staff of the Phi will not take
insult at any of this for none
is intended. Hell, I don’t really
know any of you anyway. But
throughout my four year stretch
at W&L, I’ve overheard many
nasty comments in contents of
your paper, and I for one think
the time has come to cease the
spread of such rumblings behind
your backs. (I hate to depart
from my dear mother’s advice
this late in fe, but IT Save
nothing nice ot say and I’m not
about to shut up.)

Charges have been raised,
quite fairly I think with respect
to any controversial issues, that
the campus organ is relatively
impotent. Is this because the
Ring-tum Phi is no more able
than a circus mirror to reflect
the realm of student life in Lex-
ington? Quite possibly. I have
read more than one too many
articles on “What-there-is-to-do-in-
Lexington.”

There is an _ unquestionable
need, due to our rather unique
environment, to move beyond
traditional journalistic patterns.
Granted the Phi covered last
year’s bust sensationally; poorly
but sensationally, and you were
there in force at the Mock Con-
vention. Fortunately so was
everyone else. And you printed a
nice, paternalistic, and psychia-

trically amateurish letter to some
poor guy who was feeling pretty
depressed after this years sui-
cide, providing him with a list
of wise men for consultation. I
honestly could not figure out why
the campus hippies and the W&L
groundskeepers were left off the
list. They too are capable of un-
fathomable wisdom.

Presumably those who have
taken time to read this are, by
now, breathlessly awaiting my
officious proposals ,armed to the
hilt with vengeful criticism. If
this be so gentlemen, kindly go
back to sleep. For I would just
like to ask a few questions in
a rather thinly disguised attempt
to transform a few of the Phi’s
columns into an arena where the
only gladiators are ideas or re-
actions, equipped with nothing
more dangerous than a_ type-
writer.

For example, why do the em-
ployees of City Hall regard us
with such contempt? Why do
they think that W&L and VMI
are meddling in town business?
Why is there a drug policy for
freshman only? Why are the
communications between the
school and the legal community
(Sisler and Co.) so damned in-
efficient and uniformative? What
happened to coeducation? What’s
with Hank Koci? Will we get a
Fine Arts building and if not,
why not? Why doesn’t somebody
fire Dick Miller? (Even the town
cops think he’s weird!)

Gentlemen, the time has come
for all good men to put their
piles together. I suggest that we
must all be fairly talented souls
or we wouldn’t be here to begin
with. I also suggest most audaci-
ously that such talent can re-
store the Phi to its award-winning
tradition. If not for our own sake,
then for the sake of our poor
parents (for God’s sake they must
read it too). And if not for our
parents, then for our’ unborn
sons, the Generals of the future
who may innocently ask, “Gee
daddy, is it true that people back
in the 70’s didn’t even know on
which days the Phi was circul-
ated? Didn’t anybody read it?”
Let’s hope that you can proudly
tell junior that you and your
compatriots rescued the Phi from

(Continued on page 3)

THE RING-TUM PHI

The Ring-tum Phi is published on Thursdays during the college year.
It is printed by the Journalism Laboratory Press, Washington and Lee
University. The mailing address is Box 899, Lexington, Virginia 24450.
Entered as second class matter September 29, 1946, at the Post Office,
Lexington, Virginia 24450, under the act of March 3, 1879. Subscription
rates: $6.00 for the schoo] year, $3.00 for the semester.

PAUL J. LANCASTER ANDREW J. A. CHRISS
Editor-in-chief Business Manager

er es er Jess Reeves
Sports Editor ....
Photography Editor

BRT, OE oie hs Ss as Rome Scott
I a ki 06 oe oe ba heel es David Lee
a err re Dave Finnell, John Killpack, Chuck Alt
Contriputors ..... . Tim Moore, Steve Yevich, Tom Rittenburg,

Bill Flesher, Paul Morella, W. Patrick Hinely, John Zamoiski
Thursday, March 21, 1974

 

Ask Traveller

 

—Reply to a prospective freshman—
Q—What does Washington and Lee have to offer?
A—A good night’s sleep, for one thing. You see, at the time I

 

THE RING-TUM PHI

Page 3

 

 

EXAM PROCEDURE

This week please obtain
from the Registrar’s Office an
examination envelope for each
of your classes and a schedule
form, The latter is for your

previously designated by the
instructor where you will be
given your envelope and di-
rected to a classroom.

Upon completion, sign the
pledge at the bottom of the

 

graduated from high school, I suffered from insomnia. Since the
lowing of cattle was the only thing able to put me to sleep, I
chose to work on my uncle’s dairy farm instead of going to
college. It wasn’t a bad life, really. And in my spare time I
coached a promising young Guernsey to moo “Away in the
Manger” under my window at night. Unfortunately, the comedy
impersonations she insisted on doing as well, especially the one
of Ed Sullivan introducing the Beatles, kept me awake and in
the end she had to go. I followed suit and enrolled at Washington
and Lee, where the talented Guernsey reappeared at a banquet
dinner as the main dish. (It must have been her because I was
asleep before the after dinner speeches began!).

Washington and Lee I found to be an engaging place, “a bastion

 

of higher learning and a bailiwick of recreation.” I read that in

envelope. Place the questions
and your answers in the enve-
lope and return to the place
of issue.

Failure to complete and sub.
mit an envelope prior to the
examination period prevents a
student from taking an exami-
nation.

Any student late for an ex-
amination may not expect time
beyond the announced termi-
nation of the scheduled period.

use in planning your examina-
tion schedule.

Complete the top portion of
each envelope in accordance
With the schedule you plan.

Submit the examination en-
velope to the instructor for the
course at the first class meet-
ing on or after Monday, March
25.

At the time selected for your
examination, go to the place

 

a brochure sent mistakenly by the University, which turned
out to be about some dude ranch for Spanish-American War vet-
erans in Arizona. Nevertheless, the description aptly applies to
W&L, though there were raised eyebrows when I first arrived
in Lexington bearing a desert survival kit, a Roosevelt poster,
and sixteen changes of underwear.

Certainly, with variation and challenge the W&L existence is
loaded, At least, the guest lecturer at the first seminar I attended
was loaded. His talk had been on Iberian culture and at the
reception afterwards he chased one of the deans with a fork,
shouting that he was about to plant the Portuguese flag in the
dean’s ribs and claim his appendix for Isabella or Ferdinand,
whichever one was at home. Of course, it didn’t happen quite
that way: it might have been a soup spoon, now that I think.
The point is that life at W&L is not uneventful and, except for
occasional nightmares in which Charlton Heston offers to recite
the entire book of Genesis backwards to a plumbers’ convention,
that life is pleasant. Professors take an active interest in the
student and, unless the student habitually wears striped ties with
plaid shirts or grows asparagus for profit in his window sill,
hen the professors might even be persuaded to teach him....
manners, if nothing else. The Lexington scenery impresses, the
architecture appeals, the distant girl schools beckon, the com-
munity thrives and the local A&P stocks Ben Franklin cigars. What
else can there possibly be?

Q—How many volumes does W&L’s library contain?
A—Ha, ha. Good impersonation of a freshman. Can you do a Guernsey
trampling Ed Sullivan?

Letters To The Sditer...

,

 

New poster regulations outlined

General Regulations

1, All posters on campus must be dated in lower left corner as

to when they may be taken down.

Any undated poster may be removed immediately, i.e.,

scription offers.

Sponsoring organization must be identified on each poster.

No poster may be left up for longer than two weeks.

No more than one poster for any one event may be posted in

any one location.

6. Posters on front campus buildings are to be restricted to
bulletin boards.

‘. No more than 60 posters for any one event may be displayed
at any one time.

5. No posters may be displayed on any white surface—doors, door
frames, columns, and other white areas such as stucco on front
of Dorm I.

9. “Lost and Found” and “For Sale” announcements are to ba
restricted to Payne Hall, Dorm I archway and Student Center
bulletin boards.

sub-

Ol im oo

10. All posters in Student Center and Dining Hall shall be re-

stricted to bulletin boards.

‘W&L 500’ race
to be conducted

(Continued from page 2)

the depths of mediocrity.

Well, ’'m finished and I must
say | enjoyed it. (Notice that I
did not mention apathy once?) I
sincerely hope that I do get a
response. Hell, it only takes five
minutes to write down what you
are thinking. You may even sur-
prise yourself. One last request:
please, if necessary (and if I were
reading this, I’d sure think it
was), answer or criticize me
through the Phi’s columns. My
office hours are rather irregular
and I hate people calling me an
asshole behind my back.

Sincerely,
Eric D. White
Class undecided

Kditor’s note: Please see page
two editorial (written it should
be known, before we read your
letter).

Meanwhile, we _ offer two
other comments about your
letter. The first is that the
Phi, believe it or not, won an
honorable mention last year in
awards competition tor best
paper in the South. Maybe that
says something about the
South,

Secondly, if you would like
to probe into the issues of, say,
why City Hall regards us with
such contempt, we would be
glad to have you aboard as a
writer (note, we did not say
reporter) for the Phi. Your
presence will be most welcom-
ed, as we simply don’t have the
reporters to cover these “is-
sues” of yours, Your talents
would be appreciated,

Information sought
Sir:

Sometime during the weekend
of March 8-11, someone staved
in the left tail fender (of what
is actually a monolithic unit) on
a 1969, green, two-door Nova.

It would be greatly appreciated
if the person responsible would
come forward. This happened in
the University lot directly across
from the University Cleaners.
Anyone having information
about this could contact me at
the address listed in the student
directory.

As this car is not by own
property, this incident poses some
peculiar difficulties. (In addition,

there is no collision insurance on
the car.)

At a time when this student is
becoming less disenchanted with
the University, it would be nice
if the image of a _ responsible
student body could be impressed
further upon him, Thanks.

Reed Morgan ’76

P.S. All I care about is getting

the white paint off and the

fender pushed out. No police or
insurance companies.

On the basketball team

Sir:

Just a letter to express con-
gratulations to Coach Canfield
and his basketball team over
another. winning season. They
played a great game to pull this
off and we should all feel proud
of them.

While I followed the Generals
more closely when my friends,
Frank and Norwood Morrison
and Stuart Fauber, were playing,
1 was impressed with the drive
and persistence and wonderful!
physical conditioning of this
team.

George B. Craddock, M.D., ’30

at Towson game

The Washington and Lee 500?

No, it’s not the name of the
students arrested in a massive
streak-in last week. Rather, it’s
W&L’s own cunterpart to the
Indianapolis 500.

Only the W&L 500 is a tricycle
race,

The Student Planning and De-
velopment Committee is sponsor-
ing the 500-foot tricycle race in
front of the Wilson Field stands
April 27 at halftime of the W&L-
Towson State lacrosse game. Pro-
ceeds will go to the university
as a student gift in support of
current expenses,

Entries may be made by any
student organization or fraternity
for $20, with the winning
organization receiving two kegs
of beer, according to the SPDC.

WLUR

91.5

Washington and Lee
University Radio
THE RING-TUM PHI

 

Thursday, March 21, 1974

Outside-In

By W. PATRICK HINELY
Hmmm....so this is the “entertainment” column which I was
asked to write this week for academically vacationing-from-Phi-writ-
ing Rome Scott.

OK, the Lexington entertainment scene in a word: slim. The
best—and cheapest—movies around show at the school, anyway. You
can get a full schedule of them from the news service office in
Washington Annex; the flick listings are incorporated into the weekly
calendar. As for the tube, well, I was in a restaurant in Buena Vista
the other night (don’t ask me how or why I got there), and saw one
of those “gag” postcards, usually reserved for hickish homilies,
which pretty well summed up the state of television today. It said
anyone who has half a mind to stay home evenings and watch TV
is probably well equipped to do so. Or as Uncle Hick once said in
an old Rolling Stone interview with Nicholas Johnson, “Cable TV?
Hell no, I don’t want it. I have to pay to get the garbage hauled out.”

So much for that. With exams coming up, inevitably, some quieter,
self-pacing entertainment might be more in order. If you’re not into
yoga, the next best thing is probablv reading, so herewith are some
book reviews.

Fear and Loathing: On the Campaign Trail ‘72
Dr. Hunter S. Thompson

illustrated by Ralph Steadman

Popular Library, New York. paperback $1.75

This is by far the best example of “new” journalism to come along
for years. Thompson breaks all the rules of conventional] journalism
by becoming both openly biased and pretty completely involved in
the subject he is covering, and through all this is able to relate the
process of the 1972 election through the eves of a participant as well
as of a spectator.

Originally published in bi-weekly segments for the Rolling Stone,
these former columns come together strongly as a book, reinforcing
vell the feelings most of us have had about American politics all
along. His exposes on Ed Muskie’s drug habits and fantasies rank
second in hilariosity only to the McGovern camp’s careful orchestra-
tions at the Democratic Convention. Alas, Thompson doesn’t even
mention W&L’s Mock Convention, but then, he’s concerned with men
playing the real game of politics, not college boys on politica] fantasy
trips.

Thompson's account of joining a “spontaneous demonstration” for
Nixon at the GOP convention may rank as one of the most outrage-
ous pieces of journalism-of-the-absurd ever written. He did it wear-
ing a press badge and a McGovern button, but he came on to those
parbie-doll mannequins so strong that he had them believing John
‘Chancellor of NBC news played tricks on his friends by putting LSD
in their martinis.

If you were (are) a McGovern supporter, you will understand
well the progression toward pessimism and resignation to ugly facts
the book takes as it approaches the crucial night in November. His
imagery is so strong that it still makes my bile rise when I think
about GOP headquarters just here in little old Lexington that night.

There is no optimistic spacey kind of essay to wind up this account
£ one of the most successful con-jobs on the American people in our
history. It leaves us hanging just where we are, and where Nixon is
keeping us—balanced precariously between being the saviour angel
or the Satan of this planet.

Actually, this might be better reading for vacation than for exam
breaks, since it’s hard to stop reading it once you start. It kept me

FOR YOUR EXTRA PIECES OF FURNITURE

Varner & Pole

115 Main St. — Lexington, Va.

 

The Alexander-Withrow House

3 WEST WASHINGTON STREET
A restored historic landmark with five period-furnished guest suites.
A different experience in overnight hospitality for those who love
fine things. Students may make reservations for their parents and
tour the house from 10-2 Tuesday through Saturday or write Mrs.
Harriet Thomas.

 

 

up to 4 a.m. two nights running, much in the spirit in which it was
written, but was well worth every minute of it. Steadman’s cartoons
are also worth looking at. Thompson may yet prove to be the Stone’s
saving grace from encroaching slickness,

Culture is Our Business
Marshall McLuhan
Ballantine Books, New York. paperback $3.95

What we have here is one of the few social commentary-books as
much at four vears old which is still worth reading in our increas-
ingly changing times. McLuhan, who is usually either blessed or
cursed by his readers and critics, with few taking any middle ground,
takes on directly for the first time since the early ’50’s what he con-
siders, rightly so, to be the foremost American art form: advertising.

In keeping with the literary devices he worked up so artfully in
his earlier works, Culture is Our Business elevates the pun even
farther from its supposed position as a low form of humor. It be-
comes a means of transmitting ideas which would otherwise be lost
in esoteric-academic jargon.

McLuhan sees our society from the coveted position of an inside-
outsider, or outside-insider, depending on your perspective. He has
no point of view, for a point, in his terms, is no longer valid. It
connotes stability and constancy, two things impossible for anyone
but a hermit in the 1970's.

He has somewhat of a hangup on James Joyce, especially
Finnegan's Wake. Assuming Joyce was the godlike thinker McLuhan
holds him up to be, Culture is Our Business is a logical extension of
the ideas put forth in Joyce. If you are one who sees Joyce as an
incoherent hack attempting to masquerade as an artist, the book
nevertheless says some important things about the way America
functions.

The role of the artist is society is one of McLuhan’s main em-
phasis. He sees most advertising as feedback, that is, trying to put
proven successful ideas into people’s heads to sell things. The artist,
on the other hand, is concerned with creating intuitive works, i.e.,
new ideas, which McLuhan calls feedforward.

The interaction of Eastern and Western cultures on one another
is discussed in unusually cosmic tearms for a non-mystical-religious
writer. McLuhan has somehow managed to maintain a meaningful
perspective on out culture, and what he has to say is worth reading.

The book is structurally segmented into conveniently short chap-
ters which lend themselves well to reading one at a time, which is
about as much as you can take at one sitting, anyway, if you're
going to get anything from reading it. He’s the kind of writer who
puts out about 90% new material, as opposed to the average book’s
to to 20%, so it takes a little longer to digest it well. But it’s worth it.
Last but not least:

Stories of Five Decades
Hermann Hesse
Noonday Press, New York. paperback $2.95

Here, for the first time in paperback, are the collected short
stories of one of the original 20th century heavies. There are 23
stories, ranging in length from 2 to 36 pages each, and each one a
little gem in itself. Hesse could work within many contexts, and
handle each one quite capably. The shorter ones are good for a short
study break, or even for sitting on the john. The longer ones might
be good for bedtime reading, or the book as a whole would be the
perfect thing to have on a beach at spring vacation.

All I can say about the book as a whole is that you'll like it if
you liked his novels.

The Lexington Bicycle Shop

Featuring:
FUJI & BATAVUS BIKES

Two of the most respected names in bikes.

Also: Expert repair work on all bikes;
Parts for all bikes;
A large selection of accessories.

(Don’t forget our $10.00 Special Spring Overhaul)

130 S. Main St.
Open: 10-5

Monday-Saturday
Thursday, March 21, 1974

THE RING-TUM PHI

Page 5

 

Professor investigates brain behavior

New clues to behavior — which
might provide science with some
of the important answers to dis-
orders such as epilepsy, com-
pulsive eating and hyperactivity
—imay result from research being
conducted by Washington and
Lee psychology professor Leon-
ard E, Jarrard on a small, sea-
horse-shaped section of the brain
called the hippocampus.

His investigations have indicat-
ed that the hippocampus is di-
rectly involved in motivation, the

basis for patterns of sleeping,
eating, drinking and _ certain
other animal] activity. The evid-
ence is, Jarrard says, that it
servese to inhibit or control
spontaneous’ activity, hunger,

thirst, and perhaps “exploratory”
behavior in new surroundings.

He is cautious about drawing
conclusions, but observes that the
hippocampus, through malfunc-
tions in this “regulatory” or
“modulating” role, may be a key
to the causes of certain specific
kinds of erratic behavior.

     

Huga Sisson plays Hdward Middleton, John
duction, “Phe Drunkard.” The play is a moral domestic melodrama adapted

Experimental manipulations of
various areas of the hippocampus,
conducted in research extending

over more than a decade, have
produced significant alterations

 

of behavior patterns
in eating and drinking.

especially

Rats have been used in most
of Jarrard’s research, though
from time to time he has also

worked with monkeys, and other
neuroscientists have used cats in
hippocampus studies. While the
experimental techniques of vari-
ous researchers have not always
been comparable, he says, the
evidence is clear that certain
basic functions are the same from
species to species.

One significant difference in
man, however, Jarrard notes, is
that his hippocampus appears to
be directly involved with retain-
ing verbal knowledge—though, of
course, the data on humans come

from naturally caused or acci-
dental damage to the _  hippo-
campus, not from controlled

scientific manipulation.

Klis, the Loafer, in

the

Early in Jarrard’s work with
the hippocampus, he determined
that it is not, as scientists had
believed, a “unitary”
structure with a single function—
but rather that various areas or
“fields” influenced different acti-
vities. For example, Jarrard has
discovered, drinking in rats in-
creases significantly when cer-
tain cell fields are stimulated by
chemicals or electrical shock—or

earlier

removed altogether—but is un-
affected by identical manipula-

tion of other fields. Various com-
binations of stimulus, both in-
ternal and external, have pro-
duced other major changes in
normal activity and response.

Jarrard’s interest in the hippo-
campus developed early in the
1960s, when scientists began to
understand the connection _be-
tween disorders in the _ hippo-
campus and extraordinary physi-
cal activity—such as_ epilepsy.
When drugs fail, epilepsy can be
controlled by surgical removal of
damaged hippocampal _ tissue.

  

Troubadour Theatre pro-
by William H. Smith in

next

the 1840°s. When first produced the piece was taken as a serious work on the evils of drink but today

ic takes on the aspect of comedy, The play will run from Tuesday, March

26, to Saturday, March

30, at $:00 pun. nightly. Tickets may be reserved by calling the University Theatre at 463-9111, ext, 273.

COMBINATION DEGREES
Any present junior who plans
Law School next

order to obtain a

the
ptember in
Combination Degree (Bachelor of
rts in Combination with First
ear Law or Bachelor of Science
Combination

1 enter

Wendell’s :
‘ Barber Shop
OPEN 9.6 :
9 South Jefferson

Closed Wednesday

 

with First Year Law) in May 1975
must file his degree application
with the Registrar on or before
March 29. This is necessary be-
cause all academic requirements
for the degree must be satisfied
before the student enters the Lew

SSCCCECCSSCSSCSCEEESHCECEESCES

Paul’s Bike Shop

ii N. New St., Staunton
Phone 886-1310
PAUL Now Accepting All
BIKE REPAIRS at
Sears’ Lexington Store
Pick-Up Every Wednesday
Returned On Wednesday.
Also New 10 Speeds Batavus
Bikes For Sale.

*CCOGCeSSSCOSSSCSSECESESE

tabies, too, seems to center in
the hippocampus, affecting the
victim by causing degeneration of
the structure.

After several years of teaching
at Washington and Lee and in-
vestigating the hippocampus, Jar-
rard left for a spell at Carnegie-
Mellon University in Pittsburgh,
where he continued his research.
After two vears there he was
named chairman of Carnegie
Tech’s graduate psychology pro-
gram.

But, he admits, before long he
began to miss Washington and
Lee’s teaching orientation and its
blend with the chance to carry
out substantial scientific research.
So in 1971 he returend to W&L.

His experimental procedures
are exacting and complex. Pre-
cise data have to be developed
on cells and nerve connections
even before experimentation on

specimen rats can begin — in
effect, maps in intricate detail
which permit even the most

microscopic nerve to be traced
within the fields of hippocampus
and through the brain to its
termination in another structure.

Surgery and other experimental
manipulations, of course, require
equally careful attention. He uses
mazes, feeding and drinking sta-
tions with advanced automatic
measuring and recording equip-
ment, and similar laboratory de-
vices to chronicle activity with
minute precision.

Behavior can then be analyzed
for patterns of frequency and
sequence in 15-second time seg-
ments, using special computer
programs which detect deviations
from “normal” activity, which
can be determined by subject-
ing ‘control” rats in which the
hippocampus has not been mani-
pulated to identical stimuli.

Since 1966 Jarrard’s research
has been supported by the Na-
tional Science Foundation under
three major grants totaling $147,-
950. He is aided in his work by
a full-time laboratory technician,
Mrs. Maria Hunt, and two Wash-
ington and Lee undergraduate

(Continued on page 8)

 

 

(iz

 

 

21 DENT $!

Make this your headquarters for Good Food

and Service

We have meal tickets at savings to you

SOUTHERN INN

>

 

 

 
Page 6 THE RING-TUM PHI

 

Thursday, March 21, 1974

Stickmen lose, face Navy

By BILL FLESHER
\ashington and Lee’s lacrosse
Generals approached last week’s
exhibition game with the Mount
Washington Lacrosse Club dif-
ferently than they had in years

ist.

Today, Jack Emmer wonders if
he made the right decision.

“Usually we go up there for ex-
perience—if we win, fine, if not,
we have gained a lot of ex-
perience,” Emmer said of the old
way of approaching the Mt. Wash-

 

Designated hitter Tom Lancaster takes a cut in Friday’s win over
West Virginia Tech, See story opposite page.

—Photo by Robinson

Breugel
Bosch

Washingion and Lee University

®Buonkstore

ARTISTIC CARDS

Blake

Burne-Jones

SSHOHOSOSSSSOHSSSSHSSSSS‘HSSSoesessesesessesseeeevesese

Escher

ington game.

“This year, however, we took
a risk and went up to win. We
emphasized this game even
though we had the big game of
our early season with Navy com-
ing up the next week.”

As it turned out, the Generals
lost the gamble.

Playing in a steady rain, W&L’s
running attack was slowed con-
siderably, and they were unable
to stop the Wolfpack’s veteran
midfielders, who scored 11 of the
12 goals which gave Mt. Washing-
ton a 12-7 win.

“We got beat by a bunch of
smart shooters who took advant-
age of some excellent screens on
our goalie and of the wet condi-
tions to keep the game in their
attacking zone,’ Emmer said.

“We didn’t play well on the
whole, though there were some
bright spots,” he added. “Our
close defense was excellent, as
Mt. Washington’s attack scored
only one goal, and on that one
our defenseman (Tom Keigler)
slipped in the mud, allowing (Vir-
ginia alumnus) Rick Bergland to
go in alone.” Emmer pointed to
the 0 for 10 performance in extra
man situations as a factor in the
final outcome.

“We expect to score at least
40 per cent of the time when we
are a man up,” Emmer said. “But
when you don’t put the ball into
the net in the extra man, you
aren’t going to win many games.”

Emmer now wonders if his
troops, especially the younger
players can bounce back from the
loss for this week’s clash with
Navy.

“We can’t feel sorry for our-
selves for the mistakes we made
last week,” Emmer said. “I know
our veteran players can come
back, but can our young guys do
the same thing?”

“I saw some good work from
our freshmen last week, but they
now must take some of the load
themselves. Too often they are
looking for (Ted) Bauer, (Skip)

 

East Lexington
Grocery

Beer — Ice — Gas

Party Supplies — Snacks
ABC No. 2078—8 a.m.-10 p.m.
SHOP FOR SUNDAY
We Sell & Deliver Kegs
Open 7 days a week
EVENING DINNER

 

 

 

Travel

Lichtfuss, and (Bryan) Chasney,
and, when these guys have a bad
game, we need our younger
players to take up some of the
slack. They haven't done this yet,
and I hope they will soon.”

For Emmer, this week wouldn’t
be to soon, as the Generals will
be facing a Navy team which will
be out to avenge last year’s 13-12
sudden death loss to W&L in the
NCAA quarterfinals.

“Phey | be sey Kigh=for us,
there’s no question about that.”
Emmer said. “Navy has looked
good early, but we question how
they will react in a close game.”

The Middies, coached by former
W&L mentor Dick Szlasa, thump-
ed Dartmouth 23-4 in their sea-
son opener. They took on the
University of Maryland-Baltimore
County yesterday.

Key personnel for Navy are
Dave Bayly on attack, Marty Ma-
son at the midfield (Mason last
vear played attack), John Lawlor
on defense, and Ray Finnegan in
goal,

“If there’s any weakness it
could be in the defense,’ Emmer
said. “They lost two of their
starting defensement from last
year, and we will be the first
team to really test their new de-
fensemen.”

Saturday’s game in Annapolis,
Md. begins at one p.m.

Lichtfuss receives several
post-season honors

Senior Skip Lichtfuss, W&L’s
leading basketball scorer for the
past two seasons, has captured a
number of post-season honors.

Lichtfuss has been named to
the Virginia Collegiate Athletic
Association all-star team, and he
has also captured second team
all-state honors.

In addition, the 6’4” captain of
this year’s Generals received hon
orable mention in balloting for
the Associated Press small col-
lege All-American team.

Lichtfuss captured first team
All-America honors in lacrosse as
a junior last season,

 

The Washington and Lee

Stam
Issued April 12, 1949.

Plate Blocks—40c
Per 10—$3.50 Sheet—$3.50
RTE. 1, BOX 241
On Rte. 60, 9 mi. W. of Lexington

Leo Cavanaugh 463-7061

 

Youth Fares to Europe!

SEE LEXINGTON’S

Unlimited

21 W. Washington
for information
09000008000 8000008080888 0080880098898 FH8880898

ee

 
Thursday,

Wa&L wins

By BILL AUSTIN
Scores:
W&L 3. W.Va. Tech 0
W&L 5 Wm.and Mary 1

W&L’s baseball fortunes for
the entire spring season may have
been encompassed in the pair of
games played this past Friday
and Monday afternoon.

When the pitching is there,
as it was in the efforts of Rod
Ferrandino, and Dan Westbrook,
the Generals field a competative
bunch. To be sure, this is no
club of long-ball prowess.

Of the eight hits mustered in
the opening two contests, two
were of the extra-base variety:
a double and a homerun. Both
were Don Hathway’s. Yet, for at

March 21

, 1974

2 games

least two games, modest talents
at the plate were more than off-
set by strong-armed, intelligent
moundsmen.

Friday’s affair brought to Lex-
ington an ornately-attired bunch
from the West Virginia Institute
of Technology. W. Va.’s_ starting
hurler, Staites, kept W&L hitters
in check with a rising fastball
and a touch of unsettling wild-
ness, living up but three hits in
his six-inning stint. However, the
sixth proved his undoing.

Ben Bonaventura whiffed to
open the inning, but Don Hath-
way smacked a drive to right-
center, good for a_ stand-up
double. Al Burton walked, as did

Law jocks lead I-M's;
basketball finals set

Break up the Law School!

That seems to be the predomi-
nant cry of many of the fraterni-
ties in the intramural league this
year. The “legal eagles” of Wash-
ington and Lee have organized
themselves into a_ formidable
force to be reckoned with in com-
parison to their spastic lethargy
of vears past.

This organization has been re-
sponsible for five first place
finishes in intramural sports this
year, most recently the bowling
trophy, and the handball trophy.
Bev Wood, the Law School’s in-
tramural man-behind-the-scenes,
attributes this year’s success to a
fine job of recruiting, and their
“team” approach to the sports. As
of now, the Law School has a-
massed 689 points, with Phi
Kappa Sigma a close second with
668 points, making this year’s
race for the I-M crown both very
close and very interesting.

There is one week left in I-M
Basketball, with only two of the
league titles clinched, as of Mon-
day night. The Betas and the
SAE’s are probable winners if
they win their remaining games
against the weaker teams in their

  
 
  
 

leagues. The Law School and
Sigma Chi are battling for a play-
off spot in their league, and the
Delts and SABU are neck-and-
neck also.

The biggest game of the I-M
season will take place on Monday
night at 9:30 when SABU and
DTD play for the second time
this year. In the first exciting
contest, the Delts won by two
points in overtime, after SABU
came back from a deficit of 15
points in the second half.

A Eugene Perry bomb with 10
seconds left sent the game into
the extra period, and the superior
foul shooting of the Delts won the
game. For his efforts in this and
an earlier win against LCA, Tony
Perry was named Player of the
Week for his 42 points that week
and many rebounds. Other win-

(Continued on page 8)

 

Hamric and Sheridan
JEWELERS
Watch and Jewelry Repair
Hand Engraving & Class Rings
463-2022

 

 

 

KEYDET-GRNERAL
, Restaurant and Motel

Truly One of the South’s Finest
Superb Dining and
Picturesque Atmosphere.
Serving Food in the
Fine Tradition of Virginia.

For Reservations Phone 463-2143

Complete Facilities for

Banquets, Weddings & Receptions
ft One Mile West of Lexington on U.S. 60

  
 

 

' he toss,

THE RING-TUM PHI

Page 7

 

Dave Otey after John Rice had
popped up to short. Tech’s Staites
bore down, getting Ray Rheault
to tap a roller between the plate
and the mound. However, in his
hurry to nab Rheault at first
base, Staites tossed the ball into
right field. Three runs came home
because of the miscue. Chip
Costello followed with a strike
out, but Straites was through for
the afternoon.

The tallies gave junior pitcher
Rod Ferrandino al) the fire-power
he needed, and then some. In
truth, he hurled a _ masterful
game, and was never in serious
trouble in any of his nine innings
of labor. He yielded only five
hits, and walked but one. He
struck out 10 W. Va. foes, five in
the final three innings.

William and ‘Mary came to town
Monday to test the arm of Dan
Westbrook, a freshman starting
the initial game of what promises
to be a notable college career.
Yet, in the first inning, his start
looked anything but hopeful.
Westbrook walked the Indians’
left fielder, Bush, and then, with
two outs registered, fired bail
four past the designated hitter,
Kenner, and the W&L catcher.
When A! Burton finally retrieved
Bush had score from
second.

The 1-0 W&M lead held until
the fifth, when General DH Tom
Lancaster sent a _ ground-ball
single up the middle, stole second
base, and scooted to third on a
passed ball. A bungled grounder
slapped by Ben ‘Bonaventure
scored Lancaster, and knotted the
game at 1-1.

W&M’s left-hander, Framer,
began to tire noticeably in the
sixth inning and General bats
feasted off his hanging curves, Al

Burton led off things with a
single to left, to be joined on
the base paths when Framer

%,

behind tough pitching

handled an Otey bunt and th
wildly to second, nabbing no one.
John Rice’s perfect bunt loaded
the bases. Costello then lashed a
line drive to left field that seem-
ed destined for extra bases, Dut
Indian’s Bush made a remark-
able grab, culminating the feat
with a neatly performed be *‘y-
slide.

The play surely robbed Coste lo
of three RBIs. Burton scored on
Ray Rheault’s sacrifice fly. Then,
with John Rice caught off first
base in a run-down, Dave Otey
managed to scamper homeward
before W&M chased the a-ert
Rice down for the final out.

The 3-1 bulge grew when Hath-
way launched a_ fence-clearing
home run to left in the bottom
of the eighth. In addition, Otey
walked and scored on a subse-
quent throwing error.

For Westbrook, the day which
began with a baptism of pressure
ended in victory. Going the dist-
ance, he gave up only one hit—
a seventh-inning single by the
Indians’ catcher, Slavin. Though
he walked five batters and hit
another, the freshman exhibited
an assortment of pitches that kept
W&M off balance throughout the
contest.

Of note in both wins was the
fine fielding exhibited by Ben
Bonaventura, the freshman short-
stop whose range and throwing
arm seem impressive tools for
the task of supplying W&L’s in-
field with the stability it re-
quires. Third sacker Otey and
second baseman Higgins also put
forth creditable efforts.

The Generals travel coastward
for double-headers with Appren-
tice College and Old Dominion
University on this coming Satur-
day and Monday. The next home
game features Hampden-Sydney
College on Thursday, March 23,
at 3 p.m.

;

Sete tetetegetetete

7

; 3

The First National Bank :

of Lexington ;

has special checking accounts for students ;
toot

 

Dry Cleaning

Linen Service

WE DELIVER

UNIVERSITY
CLEANERS

Reliable Service In

Storage & Free Moth Proofing

Shirts Laundered
Clothing Repair

463-3622
Page 8

THE RING-TUM PHI

Law School leads in intramural point standings

(Continued from page 1)
ners of this coveted award are
Mike Buchanan for 44 points in
two games (to be followed by a
34 pt. performance against the
Nelson House team) and Fred
Frick of BTP for his 35 points,
excellent defense and rebounding,
leading his Betas to first place.

The playoffs will be held no
Wednesday and Thursday, April

17 and 18, at 7 in Doremus Gym-
nasium. There will be only four
qualifiers, and this will be decid-
ed by the first place finishers in
each league.

NOTICE
Yale Biology Professor Arthur
Galston will deliver the annual
Phi Beta Kappa address at noon
today in Lee Chapel.

 

EET pay,

  

 

Did youknow that:

College co-ed.

The Roc does not have two guitars,

female vocalist.

Oddyseus might have drifted for o
don’t have to, if you try the Army

Program.

Thursday, March 21, 1974

Professor examines brain behavior

(Continued from Page 5)
psychology majors, James T.
Becker of New York City and
Curtis E. Boswell of Bishop, Tex.,
both participating under the uni-
versity’s Robert E. Lee Research
Assistant program.

Not content with teaching and
pure research, Jarrard writes pro-
lificly (he has two dozen publica-

Diana is not a streaker from Southern Sem.

The Elysian Fields 1s not the location of the ROTC Basic
Camp (Ft. Knox, Ky. is: 6 weeks of training that pays about

$500 plus room, board, and trave

the ROTC advanced course ).

Hercules accomplished twelve great lab

holding up a 3.5 cum at WL (Class of 06).

Everything Midas touched turned to
year ROTC students turn class time
during the school year and over

able career experience after graduation.

The Breeks still did this better.

Come see us anyway at the

Military Science Building

information, coffee, or conversation.

(2 year application dead

P.S. Freshmen, it’s not too late

line—15 April 1974).

for you either.

 

tions to his credit, including a
major recent survey of knowledge
about the hippocampus), is con-
sulting editor to “The Journal of
Comparative and Physiological
Psychology,” and is active in sev-
eral professional organizations,
having served last spring as pro-
gram chairman for the Midwest-
ern Psychological Association.

Fantbook nf OGleey \
hology

Charon’s ferry is not the troubled beau of a Hollin’s

a Fender Bass, and 4

ver two years, but you

ROTC Two Year

land qualifies you to enter
ors, but got a hernia

gold, but W&L third
into $100 per month
$9000 a year and invalu-

for

 

 

 

 
The Ring-tum Phi

Washington and Lee University’s Weekly Newspaper

 

Vol. LXXIII

Student poll indicates—

LEXINGTON,

VIRGINIA, MARCH 28,

1974

Number 22

Honor system change wanted

By ROBERT PUGH

A majority of students survey-
ed are against the absolute pen-
alty.

This was a conclusion of the
honor system questionnaire, to
which about 40% of the student
body (644 people) responded. 58%
of the people oppose the penalty.
Of these, 36% favor a 1-year sus-
pension, while the rest favor vari-
ous lesser penalties.

36% of the students surveyed
know of an honor violation or
know someone who has knowl-
edge of one. A large majority,
94%, favor continued existence
of the honor system.

In other questions, 67% feel
that the honor system should
have geographical limitations;
65% of these feel that the limit
should be “any location of a
university-related function.” 82%
fee] that the system should ap-
ply to more than academic mat-
ters. 67% are against codification
of violations. 75% prefer the re-
cently introduced idea of a stu-
dent suspecting a violation con-
fronting the suspect before he
calls in the EC. Although 55%
feel that there is a reluctance to

Fire damages
apartments
in Lexington

A fire caused by the short-cir-
cuiting of an electrical appliance
was blamed for a fire Tuesday
night in a four-student apartment
in Lexington.

The fire broke out in the bed-
yoom of Richard K. Stuart in his
apartment at 101 McLaughlin.
The fire destroyed the bedroom,
but Lexington firemen contained
the fire before it could spread.
There were no injuries.

Other students in the apart-
ment are William R. LaRosa, J.
M. Duckworth, and Charles R.
McCardell. The apartment sus-
tained heavy smoke and water
damage. Firemen made no esti-
mate of the damage.

Smoke spread to other parts
of the building, causing damage
in a number of rooms including
those of another four student
apartment in the house.

report violations right now, 60%
think the system works effectiv-
ely. 59% think that the reluct-
ance would be lessened by gradu-
ated penalties.

The EC Monday decided to
submit a second, shorter poll to
the students during the spring
term. A subcommittee has been
set up and is chaired by senior
EC rep Lewis Powell to study

possible ways of reaching maxi-
mum number of students.

The EC discussed releasing
tapes and transcripts to the ac-
cused after a private hearing. He
presently receives copies if he
goes to public trial. The discus-
sion was centered around whether
or not he should get them if
he declines to appeal. The Com-
mittee decided he should not.

It was also decided that a saf-
ety deposit box would be rented
to handle recent honor system
records. Older files, which date
back to the 1850s, will be stored
elsewhere.

The EC requests that anyone
with knowledge of the where-
abouts of Bill Merrill please get
in touch with an EC member.

Former Vietnam prisoner
to speak under Contact ‘74

Former prisoner-of-war Adm.
Jeremiah Denton, Jr., will speak
in Lee Chapel at 8 p.m. Wednes-
day, April 17, under the spon-
sorship of Contact ’74.

Adm. Denton was a_ prisoner
of the North Vietnamese for seven
and a half years in Hanoi. His
plane was shot down in an at-
tack of North Vietnamese installa-
tions near Thanh Hoa on July
18, 1965.

Monday voting fills
9 decided in run-of

By ROBERT PIKDRAHITA

Monday’s elections failed to
establish winners for nine class
and Executive Committee offices.
Run-offs were held Wednesday
for those nine positions.

(Results of the run-offs were
not available at press time. Please
check the student body notices
board for results—ed.)

The contenders in the run-offs
for the two senior EC positions

Streaker forfeits

A Washington and Lee student
arrested after a streaking inci-
dent has forfeited bond.

William Twells Tiers III, a
sophomore from Vero Beach,
Fla., forfeited $32.25 in Lexing-
ton municipal court. He was ar-
rested March 15 for indecent ex-
posure after an alleged streak

Denton spent four years in
solitary confinement while a pris-
oner, and he was tortured sev-
eral times, including before and
after a film interview made by
the North Vietnamese. In that
interview, Denton said, “I don’t
know what is happening now in
Vietnam because the only news
sources I have here are North
Vietnamese; but whatever the
position of my government is, I

were Bill Biesel, John Ratzel,
Woody Ray and Pres Simpson.
Bowman Williams won against
opponent Chris Scully in the con-
test for senior class president.

Matt Calvert and Buzz Walters
competed Wednesday for the post
of commerce school vice-president.
Gardner’ Britt captured the
science school vice-president post,
and Bob Morecock won the race
for arts schoo! vice-president of

bail in court

down Main Street in Lexington.
The case of sophomore John
Buckley Keefe, of Milford, Conn.,
was postponed in municipal court
until April. Keefe is also charged
with indecent exposure in con-
nection with an alleged streak
through the Corner Grill at Lee
and Nelson Streets in Lexington.

support it, and I will support
it as long as [I live.”

Denton was appointed rear
admiral in April, 1973, two
months after he was released by
the North Vietnamese. Among
the decorations he won as a pilot
in Vietnam are the Distinguished
Flying Cross, Combat Action Rib-
bon, and the Purple Heart.

Adm. Denton now lives in
Norfolk, Va.

6 posts;
contests

the senior class.

Leland McCullough vanquished
his opponents for one of two
junior EC positions. Hoping to
accompany McCullough as a
junior EC member in Wednes:
day’s run-off were Robert Pugii
and Theodore Reed.

For junior class president, Sam
syown faced Gary Seldomridge
in Wednesday’s run-off. Mike
McCollogh and Bill Moomaw con.
tested in the run-off for junior
vice-president.

Sandy Stradtmann will fill one
position on next year’s EC as a
sophomore representative. Scott
Franklin and Dan Westbrook
jousted Wednesday for the other
sophomore seat.

Jim Koch faced Ken Walters
in the run-off for sophomore
president. Tim Hunter was elect.
ed sophomore vice-president.

Stickmen defeat Navy, 13-10
Page 2 THE RING-TUM PHI

Honor: black and white and gray

Results of the Honor System poll released this week indicate the
student body does not favor the current Honor System structure.

Specifically, 58 percent of those responding said they do not favor
retaining the absolute penalty as the punishment for the crime of
dishonor, And, 36 percent said they knew of a possible honor viola-
tion, but they didn’t report it. Cognate to this was the response
of 55 percent of the students who said they feel there is a reluctance
to report possible honor violations because of the absolute penalty.

Additionally, 59 percent said their would be less inhibition over
reporting an honor violation if the absolute penalty system were
replaced. Consequent to all this, 34 percent said they felt the Honor
System isn’t working.

What we would like to address ourselves to particularly is the
Honor System's “absolute penalty.” As we hope every student realizes,
anyone found guilty of an honor violation is subject to the absolute
penalty—he is kicked out of Washington and Lee for good.

Either the student has debased the university through an honor
violation, or he has not. Either he is kicked out or he stays. Black,
or non-black.

No, it is not a case of black and white, for there is no gray
area in-between. There is no buffer between a student’s snow-white
purity and his coal-black evil; there is no gray area of doubt, no
gray area of not-so-evil guilt.

The black and non-black Honor System used to work well at
Washington and Lee. Honor was a bit more clearly defined in those
days. You were honorable, or you weren’t. Any student had no
qualms about getting you out of the university if you weren't.

The black and non-black Honor System worked well in its time.

But times have changed.

No longer is the black and non-black Honor System capable of
maintaining honor at Washington and Lee. At least it isn’t capable
of maintaining honor as our predecessors at this school saw it.

Is honor maintained when students feel the punishment is so

harsh that they won't report possible honor violations?

It is the student who views a possible honor violation—he is the
one who administers the Honor System in truth. Whether the Honor
System is administered rests on whether he even reports the possible
violation. If he doesn’t report it, the Honor System is not administ-
ered, and honor at Washington and Lee takes a downward turn.

And even if he does report it, it still may be up to the students—
via a public honor trial—to determine whether the Honor System is
administered.

If a student clearly commits what is deemed an honor violation—
say he steals an ash tray, for example—and the students feel the
punishment (expulsion from Washington and Lee) is too harsh for
the crime, then those students fail to convict that individual student
of an obvious violation.

As with the case of a student who doesn’t even report a possible
honor violation, where does honor stand then?

We feel honor stands all the worse when the means detract from
the gaining of the ends. And in the current Honor System, the means
(the absolute penalty) surely detract this schoo] from gaining its
ends (honor).

Among the possible solutions to this problem—a one year suspen-
sion from Washington and Lee along with permanent expulsion.
Which punishment to be used would be determined by the persons
trying the student, be they the EC or the student jury of a public
honor trail. Among the criteria determining which punishment should
be used: type and severity of crime; consequences of crime; and pos-
sibly attitude and actions of the convicted students during the course
of an honor investigation of him.

If the students won’t administer the Honor System, then it doesn’t
matter much what the EC’s power to try individuals is, or what the
Board of Trustees’ power to delineate the scope and substance of
the Honor System is. It is the student body which ultimately defends
honor at Washington and Lee, and adjustments in the Honor System
must be made to ensure that the student body wants to defend honor.

And for the students, it is no longer a case of black and non-
plack; it is a case of black and white and gray.

 

—P.J.L.

THE RING-TUM PHI

The Ring-tum Phi is published on Thursdays during the college year.
It is printed by the Journalism Laboratory Press, Washington and Lee
University. The mailing address is Box 899, Lexington, Virginia 24450.
Entered as second class matter September 29, 1946, at the Post Office,
Lexington, Virginia 24450, under the act of March 3, 1879. Subscription
rates: $6.00 for the school year, $3.00 for the semester.

PAUL J. LANCASTER ANDREW J. A. CHRISS

Editor-in-chief Business Manager
PS TN ko 6 ce hs cya i os as Jess Reeves
re ee ee Bill Austin
eo I ee peat esa Bill Robinson
eS Rome Scott
Oe ee en David Lee

Thursday, March 28, 1974

EUTERS TO Th

White’s stand supported

Sir:

I am writing this letter in re-
sponse to that of Eric D. White
and to your comment following
it.

I first would like to say that
I agree whole heartedly with what
Mr. White has said. I will not at-
tempt to even paraphrase this
because I could not do it justice;
so I simply suggest that anyone
who might have missed it (prob-
ably 50 percent of the student
body) find a copy and read it.

Secondly, I both agree and dis-
agree with your second comment
on Mr. White’s letter. Obviously,
much more talent is needed on
the Phi and someone with Mr.
White’s talent is sorely needed.
However, I am afraid that I feel
his talent would be wasted on the
Phi’s staff. Hopefully, he will con-
tinue to write to the Phi, but he
belongs on the EC.

John S. Wallace ’74

Fditor’s note: You're prob-
ably right — he would be wast-
ing his time. Because if he were
on the staff, he’d have to spend
half his time typing up letters
(such as yours) to the editor
that the writer couldn’t take
time to type himself. Now, if
we didn’t have to spend time
typing these letters, we’d have
that much more time to try to
improve our editing.

White’s stand opposed

Sir:

Here is my vote of confidence
and note of appreciation for the
job you have done as Editor-in-
Chief of the Phi during your
period of management.

Naturally, vou have upset some
people, particularly among those
in “power.” That’s what the press
is all about. Your editorials have
provided intelligent insight into
the working of our student gov-
ernment. You have witnessed
their procedings, and then on
your editorial page, have relayed
your feelings and questions on
their actions to us. And we, in
turn, have been remiss in answer-
ing or questioning both you and
the student government’s actions.

As far as other happenings that
might be considered “news,” with
the limited staff of reporters a-
vailable to you, the job has been
acceptable. Not every story or
feature has been profound, but
then you can’t be expected to pub-
lish something all the time that
will be pleasing to everyone.

In reading the March 21, 1974
issue of the Phi, a funny thing
happened to me on the way to
page 3. I began reading a letter
to the editor, which turned out
to be a vitriolic attack on the
job you and your staff have done.
It was signed by Eric D. White.
That name sounded familiar and
sure enough, I found it on page
one listed as a candidate for
Senior EC. The Student Directory
listed only one Eric D. White, so
I felt safe in assuming that the

letter writer and political candi-
date were one and the same.

I though it somewhat strange
that the man of undecided class
and possessing a fairly talented
soul should wait until near the
end of his four-year stretch to
make his voice heard in our
campus marketplace of ideas. But
then, perhaps this strategically
timed and place letter in the issue
before the elections could be a
plea for recognition. And it’s not
so strange that a candidate for
office should issue such an attack
against the media.

And, Mr. Editor, your answer
to this attack was excellent.
Perhaps if he wants investigative
reporting necessary fo rthe kind
of stories to which he refers, he
should accept your invitation.
And further, if he is unsuccessful
in being elected to the EC and
returns to school next year, per-
haps he should submit his name
for consideration for next year’s
editor of the Phi. Then maybe
he could staff the Phi with re-
porters of the calibre of Bern-
stein and Woodward. I imagine
that he would find the same situa-
tion that you have found, how-
ever. And I imagine he would
end up writing a Letter FROM
the Editor, such as yours.

If the idea of managing the Phi
doesn’t appeal to him, why not
offer the Phi competition and see
if he could do a better job. Open
an underground newspaper! Then
he could take the time from his
studies necessary for complete
coverage of exactly what has hap-
pened to Hank Koci. Take the
time necessary to completely in-
vestigate and report the “whole
story,” and not just areas in
which gossip-mongers might take
interest. And he should be care-
ful not to let his own personal
feelings permeate the handling
of his suggested firing of Dick
Miller. His irresponsible _ state-
ments against a faculty member
should be backed by by sub-
stantial] and substantive reasons,
which I feel certain, are non-
existent.

He might find pungent critic-
ism much easier to dispense than
the energy and talent necessary
for innovation, creative journal-
ism and improvement.

If he is really concerned about
the reactions of our children to
the Phi of the 70’s, let him send
his checks and earmark them for
journalistic endeavors after he
graduates. Money is always a pow-
erful tool against mediocrity.

Finally, his reference to “a nice,
paternalistic, and psychiatrically
amateurish letter to some poor
guy who was depressed after this
year’s suicide” was disappointing.
Compassion for our fellow men
should not be taken lightly. Life
has become too commercial and
de-personalized.

Rather than belittling such a
constructive effort by these folks
with such crude synicism, he
should applaud them, wish them
every success and even offer his
own talents. If this is unaccept-

(Continued on page 3)
Thursday, March 28, 1974

Ask Traveller

Q—Are there any ghosts in Lexington?

   

A—Yes, although many of them prefer to remain anonymous for tax
purposes. As you may recall, the town of Lexington was originally
layed out back in the days when a belief in the supernatural was
as socially acceptable as is placing an obscene phone call in the
Jerry Lewis Telethon today. Consequently, all the fashionable
eighteenth century families in Lexington invited local representa-
tives of the demon’s club to their social gatherings, though hob-
goblins were notoriously poor charades players and often threw
loud tantrums upon missing a clue. Gradually, this practice died
out when whist came into favor.

Here, today, in the many antebellum houses around town, an-
cestral ghosts quietly haunt their former homes, and are regarded
by their living descendents with filial pride and affection, although
occassional family disputes arise over who gets the bathroom first
in the morning. These phantoms are as much a part of the house-
hold as the antique furniture and will often balance centerpieces
and candlesticks on their heads for great lengths of time to fool
dinner guests. Indeed, these family spooks have enlivened
many a dull alumni party with their incorporeal antics, eccentric
behavior, and an uncanny ability to win at Scrabble.

Of course, the many ghosts of Lexington do not limit their
nocturnal activities to old houses alone. Some roam the back
streets looking for odd jobs, while the more adventuresome ones,
will go around ringing doorbells and then, after posing as a
social worker, vanish suddenly before the eyes of horrified resi-
dents who have just agreed to support a starving Korean family
for $1 a month and all the back issues of Esquire they can read.
At the Southern Inn, the waitress reports a misty fellow appearing
each Thursday to order the businessman’s special only to disappear
before the Jello is served. “He’s probably embarrassed,” con-
jectured the waitress. “I notice he seems to have trouble picking
up his silverware and folding his napkin.” This is thought to
be the ghost of Hawg Sorrels, late postmaster of Lexington, who
was found dead one morning inside a registered package of lasagna
on its way, air express, to Wilkes-Barre, Pennsylvania. Foul play
was ruled out because the package had the correct postage on it.

Q—What do you say to a ghost if you meet one?

A—Oh, talk about the weather, or sports, general things. For heavens
sake, though, stay away from Dickens. Ghosts hate Dickens, He
never gave them any speaking parts, you know.

Q—How do you get rid of a ghost?
A—Offer him seconds on Jello.

Letters to

(Continued from Page 2) was interested to discover that
the new library will not be seen

THE RING-TUM PHI

Inside-Out

By ROME SCOTT
The Belly and What Comes After

Southern Seminary Junior College isn’t exactly Broadway but it
was the scene last week of an emotional and _ energy-packed
experience garbed in the guise of a play opening.

“The Belly and What Comes After,” written by Frederic Cook
and directed by Mrs. Ellen Barnes, is a hard, glaring examination
of the psychological defense mechanisms that social people use to
enter the games people play during a lifetime.

The setting is the inside of the belly of a beast, perhaps the beast
of social abuse, where the play begins with children’s games.

The auditorium is lined with a black plastic that gives an impres-
sion of isolation, the feeling the main character, “White,” has while
undergoing the trials of coping with society.

All the characters have color names corresponding to the colors
of the costumes.

This anonimity and the absence of scenery forces the audience to
focus on the action which is constantly confusing, never crystalizing
any specific message.

“White” is put through a trial by the other colors and made bo
explain his case for existence as a member of the American govern-
ment. He attempts to appease the jury with a series of stories put
forth the same way most attempt to explain something they don’t
understand.

A series of almost surrealistic skits involving problems with family
life, parent-child and husband-wife relationships, create a nonsensical
impression with no concrete relief as the first half ended leaving
“White” in a pile of rubble and the audience wondering what was
happening.

In the second half, social ills are questioned and “White” is asked,
“Do you love?” He can’t answer and is advised to give up pride
and make Mother Nature his bride.

He escapes from the belly into “What Comes After” and makes
the statement that birth is violent, death is violent and life is what
is inbetween. With this “White” dies.

Southern Seminary is not Broadway but the play performance
Tuesday would do justice to the tradition of those bright lights.

Cook calls “The Belly and What Comes After” an art-theatre-
music-drama and belives attending the theatre is “an act of com-
munion-communication, a union of neighbors and strangers.”

That defines the nature of his play but—what does the play mean?

I still don’t know and one would have to see it to understand
what I mean.

How does one explain a rainbow?

he Editor

not leak? And as for the students
I’ve talked to at Tufts and G.W.

Page 3

 

   

*~

able, I strongly suggest he marry
a computer or a chair, so he
won’t have to deal with the feel-
ings of other human beings.
Enough said. Mr. White, this
letter was not written to call you
that part of the rectal area to
which you referred. It was writ-
ten as a voice of support for the
editor and staff of the Phi, and
more important to me, to raise
some objections to your caustic
letter. My thanks go to both
P.J.L. and you for raising my ire
enough to get me off my duff
and make me write. I hope you
will accept the editor’s invitation
and either “write” for, edit, or
compete with, the Phi, And I also
hope the student body will take
an active role in supporting and
maintaining the Phi.
Respectfully,

17

Jim Toler ’75

On the new library

Sir:

A couple of months ago, while
the scale model of the new library
was on display, I happened to be
passing by and heard the head
librarian answering questions
about the proposed structure, I

from the front campus, as it is
only two stories, and because of
its size it will certainly provide
ample space for our expanding
book collection.

I stated at the time that I
really liked the plans, and then
asked “Why don’t they make a
walk-on roof—like the library
roofs of Tufts University and
George Washington University?”
If the proposed roof is to be flat,
and visible from the surrounding
buildings, why not make it at-
tractive and accessible? The other
students around the model seem-
ed to think it was a good idea.
In fact, everyone I’ve mentioned
it to thought the idea had merit.
Everyone except the person who
was answering the questions, that
is. He said something to the effect
that those rooves never work cor-
rectly, and besides, the students
would not use it enough to be
practical. He then said he had
to go upstairs to work,

I've been doing a lot of think-
ing since then, and I’ve decided
that [ do not understand his
answer, With today’s technology,
can’t they make a fairly inex-
pensive walk-on roof that would

all feel that the library roof is
one of the nicest places on
campus. Don’t you think that
with the view one would get of
House Mountain, the students
would use and appreciate the extra
area? I've come to the conclusion
that not putting a walk-on roof
on the new proposed library is as
absurd as required P.E:!

Rob Pilling
Class of ’74

NOTICE

The University Council will
meet tonight at 7:30 in the Stu-
dent Executive Committee Room
in the University Center.

In addition to the usual re-
ports of faculty committee act-
ions, the major subject remain-
ing on the discussion agenda from
the last meeting is the final re-
port of the Ad Hoc Committee
on Faculty Responsibility for Stu-
dent Conduct and Discipline. Al-
so remaining on the agenda from
the last meeting are the recom-
mendations of Mr, Amshoff con-
cerning Student Control Commit-
tee procedures.

Sir:

Praise the Lord who delivers
us from the torment of Hell Fire
Washington and Lee has been
saved. On behalf of the Full
Gospel Church, and the Last Day
Revival, let me thank you and
the W&L commuinty for the
wonderful reception we have re-
ceived here during the length of
our mission, Praise God. Brother
W. T. Amshoff, our guest evan-
gelist, estimates over 100 souls
have been saved from eternal
damnation. Praise God.

Brother W. MacLeod
Asst. Evangelist

UPCOMING FILMS

The Second Finals
Film Festival:

Comedy

March 28—A Day at the Races
(Marx Bros.), admission 75c.
March 29—A Night at the Opera,

admission 75c.
March 30—A Day at the Races,
admission 75c.

All s are in duPont
auditorium at 7 and 9 p.m. on the
days indicated,
THE RING-TUM PHI

 

 

—Photo by Robinson

A scene from “The Drunkard.”

Washington and Lee Vuniversity

Muonkstore

GROW IT

Organic Gardener —Foster

How to Have A Green Thumb
Without an Aching Back -Stout

—Rodale
Better Homes New Garden Book

Organic Gardening

@eeeeeeeeeenazseaneaoanaaoace2sarece2se2ece2a gar 292222020080
SSHSSSSSSSSSSSSASSSSSHSSSSOTSHSSSSHSSSOCHSSBPOSHSEZECE

SSCSCSEHSSESEHSEESHSSHOHS OOHOSCHHSSHOSSSESSECSCESCESCOE EES

 

The Alexander-Withrow House

3 WEST WASHINGTON STREET
A restored historic landmark with five period-furnished guest suites.
A different experience in overnight hospitality for those who love
fine things. Students may make reservations for their parents and
tour the house from 10-2 Tuesday through Saturday or write Mrs.
Harriet Thomas.

 

Thursday,

A review—

March 28,

1974

The Drunkard

By JESS REEVES

Evervone is busy at this time
of the year, rushing to get in
term papers at the last possible
minute and pouring over unfa-
miliar texts books in an effort to
prepare for exams. However, the
University Theatre can offer a
pleasant way to take your mind
off all these anxieties and that is
“The Drunkard.” The play will
run until Saturday with perform-
ances at 8:00. Reservations can
be made by calling the theatre
at 463-9111, ext. 273.

The play is a moral, domestic
drama in five acts adapted for
the stage by William H. Smith.
It was first performed in 1844
under Mr. Smith’s direction. The
fact that the play was first per-
formed in the mid-nineteenth cen-
tury should be kept in mind
while viewing “The Drunkard.”

When first produced “The
Drunkard” was taken, for the
most part, very seriously. The
story of the evils of alcoho] and
the near destruction of a home
was enough to make audiences of
the day weep their eyes out.

The current production of the
play is, on the other hand, more
than enough to make you smile.
The melodramatic situations
which made former audiences
grieve serve now as laughable
and comic diversion. Student di-
rector John Steves has even been
good enough to provide bags of
popcorn, a penny each, for the
audience to throw at the villain.

The plot of “The Drunkard” is
a very simple one with a nice little
moral. Edward Middleton (Hugh
Sisson) marries the sweet, charm-
ing Mary Wilson (Susan Darker)
and thus saves she and her

 

R/C Theatres
Regal Cinema Fare
in Lexington

State Theatre

12-14 W. Nelson St. 463-3424

NOW SHOWING

Fantasia

STARTS SATURDAY

Slaughterhouse
Five

—_ Cinema

. Main St.

—

35 463-3543

qt

ONE WEEK

Sleeper

mother (Elizabeth Robinson)
from genteel poverty. The villain
Lawyer Cribbs (Paul Cella) tries
to lure Edward away from his
home to the evils of drink.

Cribbs almost succeeds but Ed-
ward is finally saved from the
gutter by his more than pure
foster brother William Dowton
(Stu. Barroll) and the philan-
hropist Mr. Rencelaw (David
DeChristopher). When all is said
and done Cribbs dirty deeds are
disclosed, Edward gains a for-
tune Cribbs has swindle from him
and William’s deranged sister
(Judy Jones) is returned to sound
mind.

;
happy

Also appearing favorably are
Champe Leary as Mrs. Spindle,
a pompous and affectedly roman-
tic old woman who stands at the
periphery of the story, and John
Ellis as both the 1st Loafer and
the Boy. In addition the large
cast includes Alyson Kahn, Bill
LaRosa, Alex Bourdrez, Chris
Goldsmith, John Hargrove, and
Tad Brown.

Tuesday’s performance still had
a few rough edges to be smoothed
down in time, but the play was
successful in its over-all attempt
to entertain the audience. One
must assume the proper atitude
or the play can not be fully en-
joved. When Rob Mish begins to
play at the keyboard just imagine
you are in Shakey’s or a typical
family pizza parlor watching
silent flicks accompanied by piano
or organ.

Everyone played his part well,
especially Stu Barrow and David
DeChristopher who were. ex-
tremely amusing. Barrow is blond-
haired and blue-eyed, very much
the picture of the All-American
boy. His simple, folksy humor
will make you smile if nothing
else. DeChristopher’s representa-
tion of the good Samaritan is one
of the funniest things in the
show. At times you wonder if
he and God have a hotline as he
can not seem to lower his eyes
from heaven.

“The Drunkard” will take your
mind off exams and that is
really something we all can use.
Instead of throwing a brick at
your teacher in frustration, go
to see the current produciton at
the University Theatre and throw
popeorn at the villain. It is a lot
safer and you will not be sorry.

 

East Lexington
Grocery

Beer — Ice — Gas

Party Supplies — Snacks
ABC No, 2078—8 a.m.-10 p.m.
SHOP FOR SUNDAY
We Sell & Deliver Kegs

Open 7 days a week
EVENING DINNER

 

 

 

 
Thursday,

March

28, 1974

THE RING-TUM PHI

Page 5

 

WEL senior running for council post

By STEVE YEVICH
In talking about his running

a seat on the Lexington city

uncil, one of the first things
John Paul Woodley, Jr. a W&L
enior, stresses is that he is run-

ing not as a student candidate,
but rather as a concerned citizen
and resident of Lexington. “I
have nothing to protest, no spec-
ial interest groups, but I have
observed the situation here, hav-
ing lived here for some time.”

A legal resident of Lexington
for nearly three years, and plan-
ning to stay a few more (he has

One of five people contending
three seats in the May 7
ection, Woodley is running

“strictly a positive campaign” at
] point. He feels that he is
not running against any particular
candidate, and he therefore puts
emphasis on the positive actions
that he would promote if elected.

His campaign technique is to
meet the people and take one
vote at a time, going from per-
son to person and door to door.
“People are responsive if vou are
responsible and familiar with the
issues and offer some solutions.”

ng ies im pol le n sucn

Pp? "Oe

p is Ss parking garages and
one-way streets.

The two percent sales tax on

food, supposedly designed to be

paved primarily bv tourists, and
whose revenues are set aside to
promote tourism, falls heavily on
students of the local colleges, and
Woodley feels that. it should be
removed.

Street improvements are defi-
nitely needed, and Woodley would
push to get such necessary main-
tenance under way. Also, he
wants to see more sidewalks con-

es children

ony to walk in the
urrent relations between Lex-
ngton and Rockbridge County
sorely strained, Woodley says,

are now
street.
cs

but the city needs the county’s
cooperation, particularly in main-
taining an adequate high school.
Woodley believes that some of
the tension has been caused by
the city government’s attitude on

certain issues, and he would work
to get the council “to return to
a spirit of cooperation” with the
county. He feels his personal ac-
quaintances with many of the

 

  

 
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
    

recently been accepted into Woodley’s basic philosophy is structed, particularly near the cuunty supervisors would benefit
V&L’s law school). Woodley is that Lexington is more of a town’ elementary schools, where in (Continued on page 8)
quite familiar with the commun- than a city, and should concen-
ity and feels that he can serve trate on providing excellent basic
the city well as a councilman. services to its citizens, while plac- - .
CCCHSOOKCCE ES OETSCOSECESEOHEOSOHSOOEEESESCEEEOCEEEEOCO °
e e
* FOR YOUR EXTRA PIECES OF FURNITURE ¢ ?
Varner & Pol
: arner ole :
: 115 Main St. — Lexington, Va. °
® *
PECSCSSOCEHOHSEESEEHSOTEOOESOESEHSEHHSEECEEESEEES e Us up.
There’s a place for you on
Piedmont. For a weekend of
Th 5 N M h Ti L f fun, a game out of town, a
ere S ot uc ime Lett quick trip home, whatever —
TO TAKE ADVANTAGE OF OUR there’s a Piedmont jet or
s * . . °
ropjet flight to fit your
ecial Spring Overhaul propjet fl
p o plans. With personal,
An $18.50 value — ONLY $10.00 thoughtful service always.
thru March 31. Piedmont— serving over 75
Includes: os ° :
}. Derailleur Adjustment cities including Chicago,
2. Brake Adjustment New York, Washington,
3. Cleaning & Greasing of Crank, Head & Norfolk, Atlanta, Memphis.
Wheel Bearings. Call us, or your travel ager
4. Truing of Wheels "
sacs ; We've got a place for you. ©
If your bike is beyond repair, ask about a e
trade-in on a new Fuji or Batavus i 1edmont
Get yourself in gear and come on down to Airlines
The Lexington Bicycle Shop
130 S. MAIN ST.
BIKES, PARTS, REPAIRS, ACCESSORIES
Open: 10-5 Monday-Saturday ° >

 

 

Youth Fares to Europe!

SEE LEXINGTON’S

Travel Unlimited
21 W. Washington
for information
COCOCCHCEEEECEEOEEESEEOEEEEEEEEEEEEESCOEEESECOOOD

 

) STUDENT S!

   

| § Paul's Bike Shop ;

ll N. New &t.,

Make this your headquarters for Good Food

  

and Service

Wendell’s
Barber Shop

OPEN 9-6

9 South Jefferson

   

Staunton

Phone 886-1310

We have meal tickets at savings to you PAUL Now Accepting All

e

&

*

.

e
BIKE REPAIRS at $
Sears’ Lexington Store $
*

a

a

=

e

a

*

*

*

Pick-Up Every Wednesday
Returned On Wednesday.
Also New 10 Speeds Batavus
Bikes For Sale.

SOUTHERN INN

Closed Wednesday

 

 

 

 

 
r E
Page 6

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

WEL track team loses

Washington and Lee University
runners romped to eight out of
a possible ten firsts against Frost-
burg College in a meet held this
past Saturday afternoon at Wil-
son Field. Nevertheless, Frost-
burg emerged with the victory,
82-63.

Sophomore Tim Washington
steamed to a new school record
in the threemile run as he
nipped Stu Nibley’s previous mark
of 15:07 with a time of 15:06.3.

Freshman Paul Thomson also
ran unchallenged in the mile run
with a time of 4:26, only two sec-
onds off the school mark. In addi-
tion, Dave Estes ran his best
time this year as he captured
third place in the 880-yard run
behind a strong field of Frost-
burg foes.

However, the highlight of the
afternoon for the Generals was
the performance of the W&L
sprinters. Larry Banks, John

ucker, John Newman, and Phifer
Helms literally dusted the _ be-
wildered Frostburg challengers
off the track as they initiated the
meet’s track events by winning
the 440-vard relay with a time of
43.89 seconds.

Helms also captured a first in

y

 

the 440-yard run and in the 220-
vard competition with times of
50.1 and 23.09 seconds, respective-
lv. Dave Lawson finished third
in the 440, and aided Helms,
Tucker and Newman in winning
the mile relay with a time of
3:29.1.

John Newman took a first in
the 100-yard dash, a second in
the 220. To round out the sterl-
ing display of track prowess, Jeff
Grimm and Dave Slater finished
first and third in the 440-yard
hurdles.

In sobering contrast, W&L far-
ed poorly in the field events.
Generals fortunes were hurt
when Barclay Armstrong pulled
a ham-string while long-jumping.
Tony Perry managed to secure
the only W&L first in the field
competition when he leaped 6’0”
in the high jump. Then too, Steve
Schweizerhof turned in his best
performance of the young season
as he captured a second by toss-*
ing the shot 41’6”.

The defeat was the team‘s sec-
ond, having suffered an earlier
loss to Madison College. The
squad took on Shepherd College
Tuesday, but the result of the
confrontation was unavailable at
press time.

Fourth-ranked W&L takes on Midwest Division champion Denison
University Friday afternoon on Wilson Field, The Generals topped
Navy last Saturday, 13-10, in Annapolis, Game time is 3 p.m.

Thursday, March 28, 1974

Baseball team 4-0.
wins in 19 innings

By BILL AUSTIN
and JACK HERRON
Scores:
Wé&L 4, Apprentice 0
W&L 6, Apprentice 3
(19 innings)

W&L’s baseball bunch made
the season’s first road trip a time
of drama and success, extending
its over-all won-lost mark to 4-0.
The victim of the latest con-
coction of fine pitching and time-
ly defense was Apprentice Col-
lege, by scores of 4-0 and 6-3.

In forging the twin triumphs,
General hitters failed to muster
an extra-base hit, but needed none
in the first contest. Rod Fer-
randino allowed but one hit in
posting his second consecutive
shutout of the fledgling campaign,
and was backed by a seven-single
attack. In addition, Apprentice’s
starting hurler and loser, John-
son, yielded six walks in his five-
inning stint.

Such wildness led directly to
Apprentice’s demise in W&L’s
half of the fourth. With one out,
Dave Otey singled and John Rice
walked, both advancing on Chip
Costello’s ground-out.

Ray Rheault drew another pass
to load the bases. His control
completely gone, Johnson issued
two more walks to Lancaster and
Higgins. Two runs were thus
forced in. Then Ben Bonaventura
grounded to the beseiged mounds-
man, whose throw to first base
was wide. Rheault scored on the
miscue, and the Generals were on
top, 3-0.

W&L added another run off an
Apprentice reliever in the sixth,
when a_ two-out Bonaventura
single scored Tom Lancaster.

If the first game was a smooth-
ly conducted exhibition of pitch-
ing excellence, the second one
was a wild, even zany affair. It
lasted nineteen innings, witnessed
the ejection of a General player
and a General head coach and
featured a game-saving play.

Dan Westbrook started and
pitched 12 innings, allowing two
runs. Yet he was tagged sharply
for 11 hits, experiencing consid-
erable difficulty with his curves.
Nevertheless, W&L seemed head-
ed for an easy win in the early
going, taking a 2-0 lead into the
bottom of the sixth. At that time,
Wecstbrook gave up two runs,
the second one a disputed play
at the plate.

Umpiring decisions continued
to attract attention, particularly
in the bottom of the eleventh
when, with two down and a run-
ner on first, Westbrook fielded
a grounder and threw a bit wide
to John Rice for an apparent
third out. At least the first base
ump deemed it so, and W&L
players trotted to the dugout.
However, the Apprentice squad
appealed to the seer behind the
plate, who declared that the first-
sacker’s foot had come off the bag
in taking the throw. Accordingly,

the eleventh inning was still in
progress.

Coach Lyles charged the
vacillating officials, and launch.
ed into a heated protest, only to
be answered by an umpire’s
thumb, When Dave Otey led
off the twelfth, his questioning
of a so-called strike drew a
similar response.

In the thirteenth, Westbrook
gave way to freshman’ Bob
Carpentier, who somehow parlay-
ed a sinker that would not stay
low in the retiring of 14 consecu-
tive Apprentice batters. However,
his performance seemed to be in
vain when Apprentice had a run-
ner on third with one out in the
eighteenth. A fairly deep fly ball
to centerfield appeared a sure
sacrifice, but Henry Semple made
the catch and fired a one-hop
strike homeward, nabbing the
enemy baserunner to complete an
amazing double-play. The W&L
bench spilled onto the field in
disbelief.

Apparently inspired, long-silent
General bats, having whiffed 17
times in the game, connected for
six consecutive singles in the top
of the nineteenth. Hathway, Rice,
Burton, Rheault, Larkin and
Semple all rapped basehits and
four runs scored. Semple’s blow
proved to be the difference, as
it drove in two team-mates. Not:
ably, Paul Larkins single was of
the 330-foot variety, a bases-load.-
ed line drive which carommed off
the outfield fence.

Carpentier picked up the win,
while Apprentice’s Allen, one
who made two separate appear-
ances on the mound in the course
of the extra-inning struggle.

W&L was to have met Old
Dominion University in a Mon.
day afternoon double-header, but
returned to Lexington when a
seven-inch snowfall blanketed the
Tidewater area. Nonetheless, the
streak will again be put to the
test this afternoon, in a 3 p.m.
home game with Hampden-Syd-
nev College.

JV lacrosse

Behind the goaltending of resh.-
man Bob Auerbach, Washington
and Lee’s junior varsity lacrosse
team posted an 8-4 victory over
the Charlottesville Lacrosse Club
in their 1974 season opener Satur
day.

The Little Generals, coached by
senior Tom Young, put the game
away with five second-half goals.

Auerbach, who Jack Emmer
said was “just a hair away from
being on the varsity,” was given
the game ball for his efforts in

goal.

Rob Daniels led the scoring
with three goals. Doug Fuge and
Ken Spence added two goals each.

Results of Wednesday’s VMI
ame were not available.

go
5*
Thursday,

March 28, 1974

THE RING-TUM PHI

Page 7

Stickmen dump Middies

By BILL FLESHER

While most of Lexington watch-

ed David (and friends) slay the
“Goliaths of Westwood” in
Greensboro Saturday afternoon,
another David (and friends) were
off doing some giant-killing of
their own.
Dave Warfield
goals, including
three in a row in the first half,
and assisted on two others to
spark then fifth-ranked Washing-
ton and Lee to a 13-10 upset (if
you want to use the term loosely)
of then number four Navy on the
Midshipmen’s home Astroturf.

It marked the second year in
a row that Warfield, a junior
from Baltimore, made life mis-
erable for former W&L, and now
Navy coach, Dick Szlasa. “Rave”
scored four goals in last year’s
13-12 sudden death win over the

Attackman
threw in five

 

THIS SPACE CONTRIGUTED BY THE PUBLISHER

   

 
 

4

For

Middies in the NCAA quaterfinals.

The win came as a surprise
to many observers, who wonder-
ed if the Generals could stay with
their well-conditioned opponents.
As it turned out, they did more
than that.

“We got stronger as the game
went along,” said W&L head
coach Jack Emmer. “im fact, I
thought we had more left in us
towards the end of the game
than Navy did.

“There’s no doubt in my mind
that our hard practices and con-
ditioning paid dividends for us
last week.”

Warfield was only one of many
W&L players who, according to

Emmer, played exceptionally
well.
Midfielder Ted Bauer backed

Wafield up with four goals, all
coming on the patented “Bauer
crank.” Two of Bauer’s tallies
were with the Middies a man
short due to penalties.

Bryan Chasney, who played
nearly the entire game at both
attack and midfield, chipped in
two goals and two assists. Skip
Lichtfuss and Don Carroll each
scored once to round out the scor-
ing.

But offense was only half of
the story.

“Once again, we got a tremend-
ous team job on defense,” Emmer
said. “Our close defense was
superb. We were espceially proud
of Rob Lindsey, who shut off
(Dave) Bakly from the ball al-
most all afternoon.

“Tom Keigler did a great job
of holding down (Bruce) Long, a
freshman who had scored five
goals against UMBC in Navy’s
previous outing.

“And Jimmy Farrar did on un-
noticeably good job covering who-
ever Navy would put on the
crease.

 

Hamric and Sheridan
JEWELERS
Watch and Jewelry Repair
Hand Engraving & Class Rings
463-2022

 

 

 

KEYDET-GENERAL
Restaurant and Motel

Truly One of the South’s Finest
Superb Dining and
Picturesque Atmosphere.
Serving Food in the
Fine Tradition of Virginia.

Reservations Phone 463-2143

Complete Facilities for

Banquets, Weddings & Receptions
* One Mile West of Lexington on U.S. 60

 

  
 

 

iciaiaall

Emmer said that goalie Skeet
Chadwick started lowly, but
then rallied himself and the de-

fense and ended up with a fine
performance.

“People have said that the Navy
goalie (Ray Finnegan) may have
some sort of edge over Skeet,”
Emmer said. “But for two straight
vears Skeet has outplayed his
Navy counterpart.”

Chadwick ended up the game
with 19 saves.

But there was one more hero,
who did his work out of position.

“We used Dave Eubank, who
is normally a defenseman, as a
wingman on_ faceoffs,’ Emmer
said. “Navy is usually a good
faceoff team, so we put ‘Weeb’
in there to cause a little extra
commotion on the faceoff so that
our chances of getting the loose
ball would be better.”

Evidently the strategy worked.
With Eubank on the wing, W&L
controlled 16 of 28 faceoffs. The
first five times Eubank was in
the Generals came up with the
ball.

The game didn’t really swing
in the Generals’ direction until
the third quarter. A 4-4 tie re-
sulted after the first period, with
Bauer getting both of his extra
man goals in the opening stanza.

WEL pulled ahead 7-6 at half:
time, as Warfield notched his sec-
ond and third goals of the con-
test within 18 seconds of each
other. Carroll’s goal late in the
period gave the Generals the half:
time advantage.

Navy rallied early in the third,
scoring three times while only
Warfield could tally for W&lL.
With nine minutes left in the
quarter, W&L trailed 9-8.

Then it all changed. The W&L
defense shut off Navy for the
next 21 minutes, while the offense
went to work,

Goals by Lichtfuss, Bauer, and
Chasney in the third gave W&L
an 11-9 lead going to the final
fifteen minutes. Bauer then got
his fourth, and Warfield followed
with his fifth and final goal to
make it 13-9. Navy scored late in
the game to make it a 13-10 ball
game.

The Generals play host to Deni-
son University Friday at 3 p.m.
on Wilson Field. The Big Red
have been the Midwest Division
champions six of the last seven
vears.

The annual spring trip starts
April 9 at Princeton. W&L plays
at C. W. Post on April 11, and
takes on Duke in Durham, N. C.
Saturday, April 13.

W&L ranked fourth in lacrosse

Washington and Lee’s 13-10 de-
feat of Navy Saturday helped
move the Generals up one spot
to fourth in this week’s United
States Intercollegiate Lacrosse
Association (USILA) poll.

Wé&L moved ahead of the Mid-
shipmen, who held the number
four spot the week before.

Maryland still leads the way,
as they again gathered all nine

Sl

re
—

deetebtetepeeatey

:

Dry Cleaning

Linen Service

WE DELIVER

 

Storage & Free Moth Proofing

SSSSESSSSSSSSESSESSOSOSSSESSSSSCSSCOHCSCESESEEEEEEOCS

first place votes.
The rankings:

1, Maryland

2. Virginia

3. Johns Hopkin

4. W&L

5. Navy

6. Cornel]

7. Hofstra

8. Brown

9. (tie) Rutgers,
Massachusetts

SEEEEEEEEESEESESEEEEEEEEEEESOS SESE OSES OFFS TTP

The First National Bank

of Lexington
has special checking accounts for students

Feb hob bbe

PEPE

 

UNIVERSITY
CLEANERS

Reliable Service In

Shirts Laundered
Clothing Repair

463-3622
Page 8

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

Woodley runs in city

(Continued from Page 5)
him in this endeavor.

Through his work in the Re-
publican Party, besides getting
to know local officials, Woodley
says he has come to know many
persons in Richmond and in
Washington who could be of as-
sistance in aiding Lexington when
it seeks outside financial aid for
such projects as the long-delayed
sewage treatment. facility.

In reference to airing the col-
lective opinion of the W&L com-
munity, Woodley thinks that Pro-
fessors Phillips and Imeson ade-
quately represent the views of
the university at council meet-
ings. He savs, “I am first and

most imporatntly a citizen of Lex-

ington, concerned with its present
and its future.”

WLUR

91.5

on your FM dial
Washington and Lee

NOTICE

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes
letters to the editor on im-
portant issues. We require that
all letters be typewritten, and
that they be turned in by Mon-
day night prior to the issue of
publication, Letters should be
signed. Turn letters into the
Phi office in Reid Hall or mail
to Box 899, Lexington, Va.
24450.

Thursday, March 28, 1974

COMBINATION DEGREES

Any present junior who plans
to enter the Law School next
September in order to obtain a
Combination Degree (Bachelor of
Arts in Combination with First
Year Law or Bachelor of Science
in Commerce in Combination
with First Year Law) in May 1975
must file his degree application
with the Registrar on or before
March 29, This is necessary be-
cause all academic requirements
for the degree must be satisfied
before the student enters the Lew
School.

No Ring-tum Phi
The Ring-tum Phi will not be
published again until students re-
turn from Spring break.

Golf, tennis teams win;
home matches noted

In tennis, the Generals topped
Morris Harvey last week, 8-1, to
start their season on a winning
note. The Generals play Shepard
at home today at 2 p.m.

In golf, Washington and Lee
won Monday in three-team play,
defeating Bridgewater and Lynch-
burg.

 

MUNSTER WANTED
W&L student to live with 5
others in large in town house
across from post office dur-
ing next school year. 463-2763.

 

REMEMBER:

ostalgia Corner

TIM HALEY?
("73 grad and co-captain of the
‘73 football team)

STEVE FLUHARTY?
(‘73 grad and quarterback of
the ‘73 football team)

Well, they’re working for one of the largest
corporations in the world, one with offices

and units world-wide.

Tim began his employment with three months
at full pay (plus travel, lodging, and meals)
in a high powered training course in manage-
ment and administration, learning computer
operations and personnel management among

other things.

Steve began with a three month management
training program also on full pay, but his
training placed even more emphasis on per-
sonal leadership and personnel management.
He also gets to work with the most up-to-date

equipment and techniques, and he’s really

using his math now.

WHERE?

Tim started at over $9,000 per year at Fort
Benjamin Harrison, Indiana. He’s a second
lieutenant and getting his feet wet fast.

Steve also started at over $9,000 per year,
but at Ft. Sill, Oklahoma. He’s also an ROTC

graduated second lieutenant.

If youre concerned about what you will do
after graduation, do something about it now:

Sophomores-

Join the two year program.
(deadline for application April 15)

Freshmen-

Enroll in MS 101, 102, 211, and 212

for next fall.

(that sounds like a lot, but it’s only
three meetings a week)

Come see us at the

MILITARY SCIENCE BLDG.

or

CALL EXT. 242 or 463-4730

 

 
The Ring-tum Phi

Washington and Lee University’s Weekly Newspaper
LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA, APRIL 19, 1974

Stickmen to face Wahoos

Vol. LX XIII

By BILL AUSTIN

Washington and Lee’s lacrosse
fortunes wlil be put to a stern
test tomorrow afternoon when
the fourth-ranked Generals travel
to Charlottesville to meet third-
ranked U.Va.

The unbeaten W&L squad car-
ries a 7-0 intercollegiate won-lost
mark into the contest, while the
Cavaliers, will be attempting to
rebound from a 25-13 humbling
administered by the University of
Maryland.

The Generals garnered three
wins in play over the spring va-
cation. On Wednesday, the team
rallied from a 3-2 half-time deficit
to topple Princeton, 12-7. The fol-
lowing afternoon, W&L clobbered

C. W. Post, 20-5, and on Saturday
tamed Duke University, 16-7.

This past Wednesday, the Gen-
erals hosted a sound University of
North Carolina outfit, a team that
had previously given U.Va. a real
scare before bowing, 11-7. In simi-
lar fashion, the Tar Heels proved
lar competitors for two periods
at Wilson Field, and trailed by
only 7-5 at half-time. Nonetheless,
the Generals put together an im-
pressive post-intermission effort,
and took the contest, 18-8.

As for-THE GAME ... Sinee
its opening-game romp. over
Johns Hopkins (by 15-10), the
Virginia team has not exhibited
the kind of overall excellence that
the squad is obviously capable of

 

Applications are now being
accepted by the Publications
Board for all top editorial and
business managerial positions
on all of Washington and Lee’s
1974 publications, Applications
will be due Monday, April 29,
1974, by 6 p.m. in the Publica-
tions Board box in the Univer-
sity Center.

Positions available are as fol-
lows: editor-in-chief of the
Ring-tum Phi, editor of the
Calyx, editor of the Ariel, busi-
ness manager of the Ring-tum
Phi, and business manager of
the Calyx.

Applicants for any of these
positions should plan to appear
for an interview before the
Publications Board at a later
date to be announced in next
week’s Phi.

Applications should include:

 

—A brief letter of intent
stating your name and the
position for which you will
apply;

—Ten copies of a personal
resume containing academic
and extracurricular data and
pertinent employment experi-
ences on W&L and other pub-
lications. These resumes should
be in outline form and should
not include plans or specific
proposals which the applicant
may wish to present to the
Publications Board,

The required personal ap-
pearance before the Board is
expected to be brief and rele-
vant. Presentations, at the op-
tion of the applicant, may be
accompanied by written out-
lines of plans or proposals. If
this is done, the applicant
should bring ten copies of
these plans to the interview.

 

 

mustering. If such an observation
offers a good omen for General
chances, it is also made with con-
siderable uneasiness.

As always, the Cavs are able to
score with explosive swiftness.
Then too, there is an element of
revenge involved. Last year,

Number 23

W&L tamed the invading State U
behind a memorable scoring per-
formance by Ted Bauer. Thus, the
honor of Thomas Jefferson's
prideful institution is at stake,
jeopardized once more by _ its
small-sized Lexington neighbor.
Game-time is 2 p.m.

New fraternity formed

By TOM RITTENBURG

Despite the seeming decline of
fraternities, a “new” fraternity
has been formed at W&L.

The Iota Alpha Chapter of Al-
pha Phi Alpha was organized on
campus in January of this year.
The frattrnity had its start at Cor-
nell University in 1906 when
seven students there organized
this first Black fraternity, Its
aims were established as “manly
deeds,” scholarship, and love for
al! mankind.

Alpha Phi Alpha took another
giant forward step in becoming
the first integrated fraternity in
1945.

Alpha Phi Alpha took root at
W&L when five students desired
a chapter here to promote service
to the community. Charter mem-
bers include President Larry Alex-
ander, Secretary John Evans, and
Treasurer “Elf Freeman. Other
charter members are Bobby
Smith and Johnny Morrison,

Today there are the five Char-
ter members and nine sphinxmen
(pledges) in the chapter. The
sphinxmen are not Rushed, but
are invited to join by the mem-
bers. Candidates must have com-
pleted two semesters of study and
hold a 2.0 grade point average to
join. Interested students are en-

Sanford to speak here Wednesday

Terry Sanford, president of
Duke University and former gov-
ernor of North Carolina, will
speak on prospects for the Demo-
cratic party in the 1976 Presiden-
tial election next Wednesday
(April 24) at Washington and
Lee University.

His address — which will be
the first formal event in prepara-
tion for the 1976 W&L mock ocn-
vention—will take place at 8 p.m.
in Lee Chapel. Members of the
public are invited to attend as
guests of the Mock Convention.

Sanford, who presented himself
as a progressive moderate alter-
nate to Gov. George Wallace in
the 1972 North Carolina Democra-
tic primary, was that state’s gov-

ernor from 1961 to 1965. He be-
came president of Duke in 1969.
He has been a delegate to each
Democratic national convention
since 1956. Sanford is also active
in education organizations, hav-
ing served as chairman of the
Southern Regional Education
Board and chairman of the board
of the National Council of Inde-
pendent Colleges and Universities
and on many other agencies con-
cerned with higher education,
The 1976 W&L convention will
be the university’s 16th. Unlike
most other college conventions,
W&L’s traditionally seeks to pre-
dict the actual nominee of the
party out of power, rather than
the most popular candidate. In

1972 W&L students predicted Sen.
Edward M. Kennedy would emer-
ge as the Democratic nominee —
their fifth error in 15 conventions,
and just their second with a De-
mocrat. Despite the wrong pre-
diction, the W&L convention’s 10-
for 15 record remains the most
accurate among colleges which at-
tempt to anticipate the actual re-
sult of the national convention.

Sanford’s appearance is the first
in a two-year series of programs
involving persons of influence in
the national Democratic party.
The events are planned by the
student leadership of the Mock
Convention to provide an “insid-
er’s” picture of attitudes and pro-
cedures in the party .

couraged to inquire further.

The main drive of the frater-
nity is to address itself to every
aspect of impoverished America.
Every Chapter must establish 2
scholarship fund at their school
as the first step in this commun-
ity program. The present social
action program involves caring
for the elderly of Lexington.

The long-range program in-
volves an international effort to
use economic power to eliminate
the poverty-ridden ghettoes of
the world. Working towards that
goal, the entire membership at-
tended the state convention of Al-
pha Phi Alpha (twenty four Chap-
ters in all) in Charlottesville
March 8-10, There the groundwork
for the actualization of this pro-
gram was begun.

Alpha Phi Alpha is also con-
cerned with social activities. At
this time the Chapter is planning
a Spring Ball for this term. The
date for this event will be an-
nounced later. Alpha is also con-
cerned with campus fraternity
life, and the chapter is a member
of the LF.C,

EC to study proposed
restructuring of UC

Plans are underway for restruc-
turing the University Council.

Next Monday the EC will de-
cide whether to accept, amend, or
reject the UC recommendation
that the composition of student
membership be changed. Students
are urged to attend and make
their views known.

Currently there are four sen.
iors, three juniors, two sopho-
mores, and one freshman. Under
the proposal there would be two
from each undergraduate class,
the President of the IFC, and the
Chairman of the Student Control
Committee. The law school repre-
sentation (two members) and the
President of the Student Body
would also still be on the Council
Sponsors reason that there would
be greater communication _ be-
tween the Student Affairs Com-
mittee and the UC by trying to
put more members of SAC on the
UC, The president of the IFC and
chairman of the SCC are on SAC,
THE RING-TUM PHI

+ te ene ee

Page 2

 

.
What happened to coeducation?

Last vear at this time, fiery debates were raging over the
question of coeducation.

For the second year in a row, a referendum was held ask-
ing students if they favored allowing women into the under-
graduate school. In 1972, the students were 60 percent op-
posed and 40 percent in favor. Last year that vote was re-
versed amidst vows to run a third refeerndum this year in an
effort to discern a trend among students on the issue. Further,
a primary issue of the election for student body president
last year was coeducation—one candidate for it; the other,
opposed. The candidate for it won.

What's happened?

Coeducation is no longer the steaming issue that it was last
year at this time. The issue wasn't even raised during the
Big Three and subsequent Executive Committee and class of-
fice elections. Is the issue dead?

Student Body President Doug Schwartz is the man who
made coeducation such an issue last year. And he won the
election perhaps because he was in favor of it. It is to him
where we would obviously turn to find out what happened.
why a coeducation referendum wasn’t offered either during
the Big Three or the EC and class office elections.

The problem is that Schwartz is obvious by his unique
position. Schwartz is the blend of two groups on campus:
those in favor of coeducation, and those interested in the co-
education issue.

Schwartz is nearly unique as a blend of two groups. Others
who favor coeducation seem not to be motivated enough by
the issue to try to get something done. And others who are
motivated by the issue—the Board of Trustees, for example—
are not necessarily in favor of it.

Thus, Schwartz’s only allies as far as motivation is con-
cerned are against coeducation, and his only allies as far as
favoring coeducation aren't motivated. A bit simplified? Per-
haps. But unfortunately true.

Beat them damn Wahoos

This week’s battle of the century is upon us.

Saturday, the undefeated, fourth-ranked Washington and
Lee lacrosse team clears across the Blue Ridge for a match
against this state’s “other” lacrosse team, the University of
Virginia.

Virginia, of course, is ranked ahead of Washington and
Lee, just as it was, of course, at the end of last season, even
though the Generals topped the Wahoos, 15-11, during that
season.

Noting that, we wonder if a win at U.Va. Saturday would
send us plummeting in the rankings, perhaps behind Navy.
After all, we beat the Midshipmen, 13-10, on their own field
already this year; why shouldn’t they be ranked ahead of us.

Rankings aside, however, Saturday's match-up is admitted-
ly this year’s most important game for the Generals, at least
in the regular season. A sound win could move W&L up in
the poll to the top position (that is, if you count Maryland’s
monopoly on ths number one lacrosse ranking only as an hon-
orary position—seemingly, few persons think anyone can even
begin to ascend the mountain of which Maryland is king. The
Terps have been considered in a class by themselves for most
of the season now).

And a sound defeat could send W&L sprawling to the bot-
tom of the top 10, down among such lowly schols as Cornell
and Navy.

The importance of the game Saturday was recognized even
before the season began. The administration of this school,
deeming Saturday a make-up for Monday’s lost classes, took
the game into account. Monday afternoon classes were schedul-

ed not for the afternoon of the lacrosse game, but for Friday

 

Friday, April 19, 1974

Remembering May 4

Sir:

Around May 4 it will be the
fourth anniversary of the Wash-
ington and Lee Student Strike.
Whewww. What with Spiro Ag-
new—who? — John Mitchell go-
mg ... Mixon going... € Ba
Hoover gone ... the FBI admitt-
ing it may have been involved in
syping on and killing off Black

Panthers and other dangerous
species .. the CIA admitting that
it never heard of itself... eight

new William Calley’s indicted in
the Kent State murders... and
George Wallace at least incapable
of reproduction, one might won-
der if things haven’t worked
themselves out after all?
Nothing comes out perfectly
clear. So I’m not amazed that a
hot blooded college student these
days has to go to a truck stop to
strike, after all, the name of the
group that started the strike at
W&L was THE LEE-HI TRUCK-
STOP LIBERATION FRONT.
Lookout: we are possessed.
Coincidences continue to inter-
est me. Take for example, the
way the universities unloaded
“radical” professors in the four
vears that have followed the
strikes. The way admissions de-
partments have tightened up on
the politics they want to let in
(blame it on the end of the
draft?). The way the oil com-
panies, the military, the “investi-
gatory agencies,” are more safely
and smilingly welcomed back to
contribute their money and re-
cruit students (although my fel-
low alumnae seem not to be con-
tributing too much, except for the
one who got back from Africa
and found that the only mail he
had gotten was from Bill Wash-
burn, so what would anyone else
do but send some money?). The
deep, dark chasm of student un-
rest was very quickly covered-up.
Pardon me. It is in very poor
taste to use that term with regard
to an educational institution. Why
“cover-up?” It nearly draws a
comparison with, oh well, I’d
rather not say that—it’s almost

TERS TO THE EDITOR

 

like saying that the same type of
mind responsible for that Water-
closet—gate—mess can be found
teaching-running-attending Wash-
ington and Lee University. Jeeeee-
eeez I wouldn’t want to suggest
such a horrible thought. After all,
you all’s the future of America,
right? Far Right!

Some of the kind folks who are
no doubt pompously proclaiming
just how awful the government
has sudenly turned out to be, also
were responsible for terminating
Henry Sloss’s teaching career, one
long year short of tenure. These
kind folks have their excuses.
Want to hear some of them? He
didn’t gave enough exams; he
gave blanket C’s; he didn’t get
another degree (but we don’t re-
quire our professors to publish or
perish, hah hah hah!); he just
couldn’t teach; he didn’t fit in;
he was better off, why everyone
concerned was probably better
off; etc., etc. People in the street,
I understand, have a term for ex-
cuses like this. The term is called
“Bullshit.”

Henry Sloss got fired for politi-
cal reasons. But ask around and
no one will tell you that. No more
than they have been saying that
Sal Allende shot himself because
the truck drivers were on strike.
That one hasn’t been used in this
country lately. I don’t understand.
Oh well. Sloss was embarrassing
to the justifications for the con-
tinued existence of many local
jellyfish who quickly sprouted
backbones after Sloss left. I won-
der how many of these people are
criticizing Nixon for his lack of
integrity? They would have told
us all so... if we had asked.
They, regretably, had more im-
portant things to do at the time.
Allow me to relate my course to
what is happening in the world
these daze ... ah, well, how do
vou expect me to relate literature,
history, politics, journalism, thea-
ter, law, to anything in the noose
today? B’sides, I told him, I said
‘Henry, Sloss, keep that mouth 0’
yaws shut, or you're gonna get

(Continued on page 4)

 

aiternoon. A wise move by the administration indeed; no-
body would have showed for those classes if they were sche-
duled Saturday afternoon. Everybody would have been at the
lacrosse game, or at least they could have said they were at
the lacrosse game,

We hope the administration was right in assuming every-
one would be at the lacrosse game Saturday. For as rah-rah
as it sounds, W&L certainly has found something to sing the
W&L Swing about—lacrosse.

—P.J.L.

THE RING-TUM PHI

The Ring-tum Phi is published on Thursdays during the college year.
It is printed by the Journalism Laboratory Press, Washington and Lee
University. The mailing address is Box 899, Lexington, Virginia 24450.
Entered as second class matter September 29, 1946, at the Post Office,
Lexington, Virginia 24450, under the act of March 3, 1879. Subscription
rates: $6.00 for the school year, $3.00 for the semester.

PAUL J. LANCASTER ANDREW J. A. CHRISS
Editor-in-chief Business Manager

 

 

 
Friday, April 19,

A review

The.

Exorcist

By PAUL LANCASTER

When Director William Fried-
kin spoke at the State Theatre last
month, he said his latest movie,
“The Exorcist,” promised to be
“the biggest grossing movie of all
time.”

He was right.

It’s gross.

The grossness of the special ef-
fects would perhaps not have
seemed so obvious, except that
they constituted the best part of
the movie.

William Peter Blatty, the auth-
or of “The Exorcist,” would have
been so disgusted with the film,
he would have walked out of the
theatre when he saw it, or so I
thought. Rather, he walked on—
for a brief moment. strolling
across the campus of Georgetown
University.

The movie begins in northern
Ivaq, at an archaeological “dig.”
Twenty minutes later, the audi-
ence is still at the site of the dig.
Those who read the book know
the point of the northern Iraq
scene could have been made in
ten minutes or less; those who
didn’t read the book were still
wondering what the hell northern
Iraq had to do with an exorcist
in this country. At the end of the
movie, they were probably still
wondering why northern Iraq
merited about a fifth of the entire
film’s projection time.

Simply, the connection between
northern Iraq and the exorcism
in Georgetown could have been
made in a much briefer span of
time. It dragged.

Perhaps because of that long
waste of film, Regan had to be
“possessed” in the film much
more rapidly than she was in the
book. In the movie, it seemed like
one day she was well, and almost
the next day she was no longer
Regan but the Devil himself, vom-
iting, turning his head completely
around, and cursing in some
more-than-startling words.

As it is determined that there
is nothing physically wrong with
Regan, her mother turns to Fath-
er Karras of Georgetown Univer-
sity. He explains to her that an
exorcism, suggested by psycholo-
gists who couldn’t find out what
was wrong with Regan, would be
nearly impossible to obtain, or so
he implied. Moments later, in the
film anyway, the exorcism is ap-
proved by the Catholic Church
and the process begins.

The timing of the whole film if
off; parts which should be slowly
developed are cast upon the audi-
ence like the Devil’s vomit is ex-
plicitly cast upon Father Karras
in the movie. And, as mentioned,
the northern Iraq scene is just
too long.

So the exorcist arrives on the
scene, and the process begins.
“The last time he performed an

(Continued on page 5)

 

0000800008998 9809009888FH5S9H09869F88FHHHHVHTHIHGVHVOCISSHST GHO7I0F5HROTSHEHUHO035BSG

1974

But there is a way to make it somewhat easier.
Our way. The Armed Forces Health Professions
Scholarship Program. It won't soften the demands
of your professors, or those you make upon yourself
—but it may free you from those financial problems
which, understandably, can put a crimp in your
concentration.

If you qualify, our scholarship program will cover
the costs of your medical education. More, you'll
receive a good monthly allowance all through your
schooling.

But what happens after you graduate?

Then, as a health care officer in the military
branch of your choice you enter a professional
environment that is challenging, stimulating and
satisfying.

An environment which keeps you in contact with
practically all medical specialties. Which gives you
the time to observe and learn before you decide on
your specialty. Which may present the opportunity
to train in that specialty. And to practice it.

You may also find some of the most advanced
medical achievements happening right where you
work, Like at the Brooke Army Medical Center in
San Antonio, Texas, long noted for its Burn Treat-
ment Center. Or the home of Flight Medicine, the
famed Aerospace Medical Division, also in San

THE RING-TUM PHI

Page 3

 

es

Antonio. Or the National Naval Medical Center in
Bethesda, Maryland, recognized worldwide for its
work in Medical Research.

And if you've read this far, you may be interested
in the details. Just send in the coupon and we'll
supply them.

POSS SSS SSS SSS eS eee

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Arme S $

one Forces Scholarships Z-CN-44 i
Universal City, Texas 78148 1
| desire information for the following program: Army i
Navy () Air Force (1) Medical/ Osteopathic 2 Dental [ 4
Veterinary* () Podiatry (1) Other (please specify) i
Name i
(please print) |
Soc, Sec. # i
Address
City i
State Zip. :
Enrolled at i
(school) 1
To graduate in 1

(month) (year) (degree)
Date of birth i
(month) (day) (year) 1
*Veterinary not available in Navy Program. 1
on ee ee ee ee es es es es ee es ee ee ee ee

ARMED FORCES HEALTH CARE

DEDICATED TO MEDICINE ANDO THE PEOPLE WHO PRACTICE IT

a

eer:

There's no easy way for Charlie Ne!ison to become Dr. Nelson.

 

oo
THE RING-TUM PHI

 

Friday

ve

April 19, 1974

Letters to the Editor

(Continued from Page 2)
voted outta here.’ I warned him.
So what could I do but vote him
out w ith everyone else? Alls he
had to do was sit on his lips for a
year, jess one year, and he’d have
gotten tenure jess like me. Then
he could’ve spoke out too. Jess
like me. Now then, ahem, isn’t it
perfectly disgustin’ what Nixon's
done?

Henry Sloss, his wife, their
baby, and a lot of books were exil-
ed to Italy. Kind of like Solzhenit-
syn was exiled to Switzerland.
Ain’t it a crime what them rus-
sians do to their writers if they
try to change the system—try to
speak out about politics? Throw
‘em the hell outta the country
without work—tell ’em to love it
1” leave it! Jeeeeeeeez. We don’t
jorce people to do anything here,
no we do not operate like that.
‘Ve don’t do anything when the
TeeVee cameras are on... we
wait until later and then we get
even. No, we don’t force people
into exile. We simply make plane
tickets cheap.

“Computers are very much a

part of the W&L educational

process.” (W&L Magazine,

March, 1973, p. 1)

Lights, action, cameras—roll
‘em: Remember, be as much like
Roger Mudd as possible. Smile
slightly when you speak the news.
Remain somewhat aloof... keep
your hands clean... if you think

there is something wrong, take
your time, think it over very care-
fully ... weigh the possible harm
to society against any risk to
your career. If at all possible, let
someone else make things better

- you can always cash in later
and have everyone suggesting
that you made it all possible . .
first things first . . . do not get
involved ... when Groucho Marx
dies, we will all look like heroes
again.

Barbers’ Dream, that’s me,
Class of ’70 & ’71, returned from
a year as a “Youth Advisor” to
Richard Nixon, and the youngest.
state executive committee mem-
ber in the national campaign
(1968). Henry Sloss, ala McKor-
mix Grinning Reaper, shook his
head and handed bee dee two
books: Moby Dick and Why Are
We in Vietnam? This M. Grinning
Reaper fellow taught BeeDee how
to read, the newspaper of all
things. It is now the week before
The Moratorium (1969) and the
place is the Executive Office
Building, next door to the White
House ... “the place where all
the work gets done,” Ehrlich-
man’s assistant growled. He then
proceeded to tell BeeDee that
Commies were running the pro-
tests, so stay away. “Besides,”
Egil Krogh’s superior went on, “if
these college students don’t quit
mouthing off like that, we’re gon-
na cut off all federal aid to higher

 

The Alexander-Withrow House

3 WEST WASHINGTON STREET

A restored historic landmark with five period-furnished guest suites.
A different experience in overnight hospitality for those who love
fine things. Students may make reservations for their parents and
tour the house from 10-2 Tuesday through Saturday or write Mrs.

Harriet Thomas.

 

e ®eeeeeeseecereceoesceonr eszecarerca2 cae ceeareaoeca2 eon cece

Washingion aud Lee University

Bookstore

GROW

Organic Gardener

How to Have A Green Thumb
Without an Aching Back -Stout

Organic Gardening

Better Homes New Garden Book

SSSCOSHSSSOSHGESSSSSS SSSSSSHEHOHSSESSESHOSOSSSSESEEECE

iz

—Foster

—Rodale

education.” What followea was an
analysis of the Wallace “threat.”
BeeDee could understand the ly-
rics—something like the Star
Spangled Banner, but the music
was coming out all wrong. Lucki-
ly for Barbers’ Dream, this M.
Grinning Reaper dude who taught
him ho wto read also taught him
how to tell right from wrong.
Excuses were no longer necessar'y
. . . BeeDee was rescued from a
career alongside Josephine De-
Camp and the White House
Plumbers.

“Look, it’s hard to tell how this
whole thing’s gonna evolve. We
won’t want to get TOO political.
But if a lotta people on campus
sai dthey were really into the
Watergate scandal, I think that
would be fine.” Roone Arledge
to Gary Deeb, in T.V. column of
the Chicago Tribune, April 4,
1974.

Henry Sloss didn’t say “I told
you so” to me... he holds out
hope for just about anybody, so
I'm not going to say it to those of
you who didn’t see anything to
get involved over then or now.
Miserable thinking and miserable
acting by people who somehow
have authority is not exclusive to
any country. The same mind that
handled Solzhenitsyn, handled
Watergate, and handled the Sloss
incident. The only difference is
that the people in the Kremlin
and the people in the Executive
Office Building never pretended
to maintain an intellectually di-
verse environment, and W&L
does. All things considered, I’m
sorry to say that I think Nixon is
probably less hypocritical than
the people who “let Henry Sloss
go.” And that, gentlemen, is a
hard act to follow. Happy fourth.

Jeffrey L. Gingold

Paul’s Bike Shop

11 N. New St., Staunton
Phone 886-1310
PAUL Now Accepting All
BIKE REPAIRS at

Sears’ Lexington Store

Pick-Up Every Wednesday
Returned On Wednesday.
Also New 10 Speeds Batavus
Bikes For Sale.

eceeeceeeoeoeoeoooceocoece

   
 

Wendell’s
Barber Shop

OPEN 9-6

9 South Jefferson

  
  
 

Closed Wednesday

The tennis courts
Sir:

After four vears at this univer-
sity I have finally sat down to
write my first letter to the editor.
This, however, is not really ad-
dressed to the editorial staff of
the Ring-tum Phi. Rather, I am
writing this in hope that our be-
loved Dick Miller or others in
power over the “G-School” will
read it. This concerns the tennis
facilities at Washington and Lee,
or more appropriately the lack
thereof. It is bad enough when
the entire student body and fac-
ulty has to compete for the use of
only six courts. I understand that
this situation is in the process of
being corrected with the new con-
struction. But it is completely ri-
diculous when the courts that are
available are in such deplorable
condition as they are in now.
When one is attempting to play
tennis in the gravel pit they call
tennis courts the game becomes
trying to guess which way the
ball will bounce next. This leaves
a tennis player only one choice—
to try and play at VMI where as
many as three tennis teams play
at times. Why is manpower and
money being expended to tear
down the steps in front of the
gym when something that could
provide some benefit to the W&L
community is being ignored?
Why, Dick Miller, why?

John Russell ’74

Editor’s note: Eight tennis
courts are currently under con-
struction behind the stands at
Wilson Field, and Coach Miller in-
forms us that they will be ready
in September. He also says there
were hopes to have the courts
ready for the Spring Term, but
weather, an unexpectedly large
large quantity of rock at the site
of the courts, and the slow set-
tlings of the fill underneath the
courts delayed construction.

NOTICE
The W&L-U.Va. lacrosse game
will be televised locally April 28.
Roanoke station WRET, Channel
27, will broadcast the game at 2:30.

 

Hamric and Sheridan
JEWELERS
Watch and Jewelry Repair
Hand Engraving & Class Rings
463-2022

 

 

 
 
    
 

East Lexington
Grocery

Beer — Ice — Gas

Party Supplies — Snacks
ABC No, 2078—8 a.m.-10 p.m.
SHOP FOR SUNDAY
We Sell & Deliver Kegs
Open 7 days a week
EVENING DINNER

 

  

Sati OAR he ot nt

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
Friday, April 19, 1974

THE RING-TUM PHI

Page 5

 

Pro football comes to Virginia

By BILL AUSTIN

One week ago today, the state
of Virginia gained its first major
league football franchise, a WFL
outfit called the Ambassadors.

Actually, the team had hoped
to share RFK staduim with the
Washington Redskins, but was
blocked in its efforts by the Skins’
monopoly on the lease of the fac-
ijitv. Consequently, mystery-man
owner Joe Wheeler scouted both
Norfolk and Annapolis as possible
sites for his homeless bunch, and
chose the Virginia port city when
his overtures to Annapolis were
received coolly.

Obviously, his decision was not
one made in the heat of ecstasy.
Quite frankly, Wheeler _ still
yearns for Washington, and is
rumored to be biding his time un-
til the enemy Redskins have to
make room for their competition.
Meanwhile, the Ambassadors will
plav in little-used Foreman Field,
a stadium previously doomed to
destruction by 1978, deservedly so.

 

NEED MONEY?

$15 for a few hours of
easy work on
Sunday, April 28.
Call anytime—463-9395

The park is antiquated: the seat-
ing capacity is a mere 32,000, the
locker rooms are cramped and
grimy. Furthermore, the season
begins in the middle of July, a
time when temperature and hu-
midity chase coastal residents to
the beaches, not to a steamy foot-
ball turf.

When Wheeler visited Norfolk
to survey the town and its inter-
est in his product, he brought
along an aide who passed out 27-
page tracts, entitled “Joe Wheeler:
The Portrait of a Success.”

The blatant pitch for credibility
strikes a posture not unlike that
of Earl] Foreman, owner of the
sinking Virginia Squires. Four
vears of Foreman’s slick opera-
tions have resulted in a disillu-
sioned populace, and a nearly
bankrupt franchise. Charlie Scott,
Julius Erving, Swen Nater’ and
George Gervin have come and
gone to the tune of fat price tags,
as the ABA team became little
more than a farm-team set-up for
the benefit of the league’s wealth-
ter clubs.

Foreman has complained of

Dog unclaimed

A male, light brown great dane
with no tags is currently being
housed at the SPCA animal shel-
ter in Lexington. The owner may
claim the dog at the shelter from
9 a.m. to 12 noon weekdays and
3 to 5 p.m. Sundays. The dog will
be destroyed if it is not claimed
within several days.

Spee teeth debebbdeed dhe

. ee
os . e =
é The First National Bank :
$ of Lexington ;
+ %
$ has special checking accounts for students :
Seeder Seeseeedetedeetededeeeeeeeteae

 

° FOR YOUR EXTRA PIECES OF FURNITURE
: Varner & Pole

115 Main St. — Lexington, Va.

 

~*~

 

¢

 

 

| STUDENTS!

Make this your headquarters for Good Food

and Service

We have meal tickets at savings to you

SOUTHERN INN

 

 

 

(=

apathetic fans in a feeble defense
for his actions. Already, Wheeler
was voiced a similar suspicion in
the placing of his franchise in

Norfolk. Yet it must be maintain-

ed that support for any profes-
sional team must be nurtured, de-
veloped. Foreman promised a
champion, then unloaded his tal-
ent to cover personal debts.
Wheeler expresses the same grand
hope for a solid outfit, yet cloaks

the facts of his financial strength
in cliches and gaudy pamphlets.
Major jeague sport could make a
profitable go of things in Virginia.
Will the Ambassadors?

Dry Cleaning

Linen Service

WE DELIVER

Storage & Free Moth Proofing

SSCHECCHECEHSESCHOTHETCHVSESOSCHHESCESECEHOESOECOCHECOCOESS®O

The Exorcist

(Continued from page 3)
exorcism,” we are told, “it almost
KiseG@ iim, =it 266& montia.”
Those statements seem to be hints
for what is to come.

The exorcism, of course, is the
key to the whole movie. It is the
climax, and the end. But to the
end is tacked another end, seem-
ingly added for those who other-
wise would have nightmares be-
cause the film left a doubt as to
who won — the Devil or Good.
That added ending is as needed as
the whole Iraq sequence.

So what is the film’s redeeming
value? Why, the fact that it’s the
biggest grossing movie of al] time,
of course.

UNIVERSITY
CLEANERS

Reliable Service In

Shirts Laundered
Clothing Repair

463-3622

 

Get

Your

Fs:

Streaker;
T-shirt |

 

Total $

 

    
  

only 3.95 each or 2 for 6.95 post paid
It’s the ONLY T-shirt endorsed by
THE INTERNATIONAL STREAKERS ASSOC,
The MASTER ART Co,
Post Office Box 444 — Maumee, Ohio 43537
Size: S—M—L: $3.95 each — $6.95 for 2 — tax incl,

 

 
age 0 THE RIN

iG-TUM PHI

 

 

a SAE’s f
) N.C State ve two iS 1 5 iret
| CO non: lol V n \ I (
d th hampionship ¢ B é
Ove yast thre rin g e w Bir é
{ De ve won y) j cf 1 did no IOK I
fin a yw, and ive also ( r¢ imi in layoffs
“i for wh
ove you for what you are,

 
      

but I love you yet more for

what you are going to be...”
—Carl Sandburg

BOLAND

Chosen but once and cherished forever,
your engagement and wedding rings will reflect your love
in their brilliance and beauty. Happily you can choose
Keepsake with complete confidence
because the guarantee assures perfect clarity,

ESL

precise cut and fine,
white color. There is
no finer diamond ring.

 

T-M Reg. A.H. Pend Ge.

HOW TO PLAN YOUR ENGAGEMENT AND WEDDING

Send new 20 pg. booklet, “Planning Your Engagement and Wedding” plus
full coler folder and 44 pg. Bride's Book gift offer all for only 25¢, e714

 

 

Tease Pring

Address

 

Otty

 

State Ip

KEEPSAKE DIAMOND RINGS, BOX 90, SYRACUSE, N.Y. 13201

 

 

 

Pind your Keepeake Jewelers in the Yellow pages or dial free 800-248-6000. In Conn. 600-862-6509,

Friday,

basketball crown

Combining good defense with f points, many in the stretch.
ungry rebounding, the Beta’s But in the final, he threw in six
opened up a 16 point halftime buckets in the second half, almost

jana 31615, Delt

ed when thelr

hopes plummett- al of m on fast break jumpers.
leading scorer, His hot eee resulted in an eight
Mike Buchanan, was ejected. point Delt lead going into the

Meanwhile, the SAE’s were do- final minutes. But at was Buchan-
ing some fancy coming back of an’s foul shooting and dribbling
their own against the Law school, act that put the icing on the Delt
Down by nine points at the half, celebration cake. He hit eight out
they came back mainly due to the nine from the charity line, as
tenacious full court pressure of the SAE’s were forced to foul,
Bobby Kelly, and Hal Wellford. The final score was 50-45, with
Law's guards got no help from DTD winning 30 in a row.
anybody and frequent steals re- In the consolation game, Law
victory by a defeated the Betas 45-42. For his
re excellent defense in the playofts
and fine shooting and team play,
Brent Miller of DTD was named
MVP of the playoffs. Fred Frick
of BTP received the MVP award
during the season. Neither player
will receive a car from Sport Ma
gazine.
FIRST TEAM ALL I-M:

FIRST TEAM ALL I-M: Mike
Buchanan—DTD, Geoff Nolan —

sulted in an SAE
point.

The final game pitted two teams
familiar with each other over the
years, and this year’s result was
no different than previous results.
DTD pulled out a two point lead
at the half, 23-21, as tight defenses
were employed by both squads.
The box-on-one zone of SAE all
but collared the leading I-M scor-
er, Mike Buchanan, with Hal sar fred Frick — BTP, Tony
Wellford clining to Buchanan Perrv—SABU, Jack Berry—PGD,
tighter than his own shirt at Jack Vavala—PKS. :
imes, and he also hit for eight = a
en half fondle But Pe a SHCOND TEAM: Craig Smivh os

‘4 LCA, Bo Poats—BAMF, Lew Hix
half belonged to Brent Miller. son — SC, John Jackley — Psi U,
Doug Chase — PKPsi, Charles
Boggs—FAC.

Playing the unaccustomed role
of scorer in the Beta game, he hit

Fine arts department head named

The director of the university
theatre at the University of Tole-
do, Dr. Albert C. Gordon, has
been named professor of fine arts
and head of that department at
Washington and Lee University
effective Sept. 1.

Announcement of Gordon’s ap-
pointment was made by Presi-
dent Robert E. R. Huntley. He
succeeds Prof. Robert Stewart,
acting head of the W&L fine arts
division since last September. Ste-
wart will return to full-time teach-
ing as professor of music.

Gordon is a native of North
Carolina, and holds the bachelor’s
and master’s degrees in dramatic arts department incorporates the
art from Chapel Hill. He earned divisions of music, drama and art,
his Ph.D. in theatre from Fulane with a faculty of ten members
University. He joined the faculty who teach a total of 50 courses
at Toledo in 1965, served as in- Last year 24 students received de
terim department chairman in grees in fine arts at We&L.

1972-73, and is now head of the
institution’s graduate program in
theatre.

He acquired experience as an
actor, singer, director and set de-
signer in North Carolina and
Louisiana where he studied, in
Georgia where he taught before
going to Toledo, and in Ohio. He
is a member of several profession
al organizations, including the
American Theatre Association and
the College Theatre Association,
of which he is currently secre-
tary-comptroller.

The Washington and Lee fine

  
 

4

KEYDET-GENERAL
Restaurant and Motel

Truly One of the South’s Finest
Superb Dining and
Picturesque Atmosphere.
Serving Food in the :
Fine Tradition of Virginia. |

For Reservations Phone 463-2143

Complete Facilities for

   

, Banquets, Weddings & Receptions Pp
:'¢, One Mile West of Lexington on U.S. 60 4

 

 
sy nt

Friday, April 19, 1974

Baseball nine lose 6 straight games

By BILL AUSTIN and
JACK HERRON
Scores:
V&L 5
Hampden-Sydney 4
V&L 1
Fayetteville 11
W&L 1]
Augustine 14
WEL 4
Cambell 11
WEL 2
Cambell 12
W&L 0
Pembroke 8
We&L 3
VMI 6

After edging Hampden-Sydney
in a game played the final Thurs-
day before exams, the baseball
Generals put their 5-0 won-lost
mark to a formidable test in em-
barking on a spring-time odyssey
into North Carolina.

Plagued by rain and by less
than ideal accommodations,
W&L’s bunch found life no easier
on the playing field. Defeats were
administered (and how!) by the
likes of Fayettevile, St. Augustine,
Cambell and Pembroke Colleges.
These schools may not be familiar
names to most, but they play
baseball with a skill borne of
much practice and dedication. For
the W&L team, a group stil in
the process of learning the sport,
the contests were rude reminders

f inexperience. Then, having re-
turned to familiar Lexington, the

  

There’s a place tor you on
Piedmont. For a weekend of
fun, a game out of town, a
quick trip home, whatever—
there’s a Piedmont jet or
propjet flight to fit your
plans, With personal,
th ughtful service always.
,jedmont—serving over 75
cities including Chicago,
New York, Washington,
Norfolk, Atlanta, Memphis.
Call us, or your travel agent.

Our twenty-fifth year
if service,

club Jost its sixth game in succes-
sion, this time to VMI.

The fifth General victory was
pitched by Rod Ferrandino, as
he picked up his third complete-
game win of the season. A com-
rortable 5-1 lead was threatened
by three Tiger tallies in the 8th
inning, and again by a 9th-inning
uprising in which H-S placed the
go-ahead run on hase. Yet, Fer-
randino held off the awakened
enemy bats and the Generals fin-
ished March in fine style.

The junior moundsman also
pitched the first game of the road
trip against Fayetteville, and for
the first time this season failed to
go the full route. Coach Lyles re-
moved him in the 7th, when Fay-
etteville hitters had tagged his
stuff for 10 hits and a 7-1 lead.
Designated hitter Bob Rathbun
homered for the lone W&L score.
To be sure, five regulars missed
contest due to exams, and the en-
tire team was hurt by the study-
time layoff. The 11-1 score could
have been much closer.

Such speculation would be fool-
ish concerning the games that fol-
lowed. Four General pitchers (in-
cluding Al Burton, normally a
catcher) failed to calm explosive
St. Augustine bats. Freshman

Maynard McCorkle was the pitch-
ing-victim of a grand slam homer.
But streck out 6 =in his 4=two-
thirds inning stint.

In the doubleheader

against

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
   
       
 

 

Save Long Distance Cails — Free Reservations

Tickets Cost No

More At

TRAVEL UNLIMITED

21 WEST WASHINGTON ST.

463-7174

 

THE RING-TUM PHI

Page 7

 

Cambell College, the Generals
took 1-0 leads in each of the two
games, then received poundings
in both. Dan Westbrook lost in
the opener; Bob Rathbun dropped
the nightcap in his college pitch-
ing debut. Finally, Ferrandino
was again belted in an 8-0 loss to
powerful Pembroke College.

Foul weather forced the can-
celjation of a second game against
St. Augustine, and washed out a
meeting with North Carolina
State. Notably, Don Hathway com-
piled a 9-game hitting streak (he
missed the Fayetteville contest).

Hathway's hitting stopped at
VMI, but not the General losing
skein. Tuesday’s game was de-
eided in the first inning, when
Keydet batters jumped on Dan
Westbrook for four quick seores.

Track, tennis
squads win

The Wé&L tennis and _ track
squads had successful spring va-
cations, with Coach Tom Davies’
tennis squad defeating Emory U.
5-4, Towson 8-1, Eckerd 8-1 and
St. L - 9-0 to up its season record
to 7-2. The netters lost matches to
F lorida 9-0 and Southern Florida
&-].

Coach Norris Aldridge’s track
sguad bombed Wofford and Gard-
ned-Webb to up its record to 3-2.

The tennis team has a very
busy schedule for the next week,
including playing at home Friday
against one of the best college
teams in the state, Hampton In-
stitute. The match will begin at
2 p.m. on the W&L courts under
the footbridge.

Other home contests include a
junior varsity lacrosse match
Thursday against VMI, beginning
at 3 p.m. on the W&L practice

field.

City, county tags
must be bought

Ali students who have motor ve-
hicles at Washington and Lee are
‘eminded that they were requir-
ed to purchase new local tags by
April 15, 1974.

A student whose local address
is within the city limits of Lex-
ington is required to purchase a
decal from the City Treasurer’s
Office at the Lexington City Hall
on East Washington Street. A
whose local resiednce is

»ckbridge County is to pur-
hase his decal at the County
freasurer’s Office, located in the
County Office Building on Main
registration papers
for the automobile are required at
the time of tag purchase.

The only students exempt from
these licensing requirements are
Virginia residents who already
display current loca] tags from a
county in the Common-
wealth of Virginia,

tii ~ +
wuaent

Street. State

i. SOU

 
  

Though they trailed throughout,
the Generals kept things close by
mustering 11 hits off VMI fresh-
man Tom Mihalik. Westbrook
pitched seven innings, surrender-
ing six runs on nine hits. His per-
formance was hurt by the rather
unsteady play of his infielders, as
four errors were committed, each
seemingly at a critical time in the
struggle.

The 9th inning all too graph
ally typified the contest. With one
run in and Rice and Hathway on
first and third, cleanup hitter Al
Burton drilled a shot down the
third base line. VMI thirdbaseman
Donnie Ross dove to his right and
snagged the ball on one hop. He
staggered to his feet and threw
Burton out by a step, thus pre-
serving a 6-3 Keydet triumph.

Te

a STN
Pra ales
ea is
ea Na Nees
MEDICAL SCHOOLS
HC a Te

For the session starting Ju'y, 1974,
Euromed will assist quaiified Arser-
ican students in gaining admission
to recognized overseas medical
schools.

      

  
 
 
 
 
    
   
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
   

And that's just the beginaiog,
Since the language barrier coestitutes
the prependerate d f* culty in sweceea-
ing at a fcrgign school, tre Euromed
program also inch.des an irtesstve
12-16 week med-al and comversa-
tions! language course, mend:tory for
a!l stucgents. Five hours dey, 5 days
per week (12-16 weeks) the course is
given in the country where the student
will atiend medical school,

In add'tion, Eurcmed provides gstu-
cents with a 12-16 week intensive cul-
turul orientation program, with Amer-
ican students now studying medicine
in that particular country serving as
counselors,

Senior or graduate students currently
enrolled in an American university are
eligible to participate in the Euromed
program.

 

For application and further

 

 

 
 

information, phone toll tree:
(800) 645-1234
in New York State phone:
(516) 746-2380

or write,

Euromed, Ltd.

170 Old Country Road
Mineola, N.Y, 11501

 
   
     
  

 
 

    
   
 
Page 8 THE RING-TUM PH

I

 

most radio stations
Survive on commercials,
but in our 19 hour
broadcast day you
won't hear a single
commercial. only
music. we have

news, information, and
something for

everyone: morning

music that taps you

on the shoulder, news

and information through-
out the day and three and

Friday, April 19, 1974
a half hours of serious
music a night, we re
lexington’s community
service radio station, and
the only thing we're
selling is ourselves.

PROGRAM LOG

7:00 good morning show
7:15 bulletin board
8:15 sports
9:15 audio answers
10:15 feature
11:15 bulletin board
12 noon news

1:15 sports
2:15 feature
3:15 holocryptic moments
4:15 audio answers
5:00 perspective (Fri.)

5:00 wiur takes a look...

6:00 -

6:30 classical showcase
10:00 home edition news
10:30 - -

11:00 third ear

2:00 good night

m t w th f
6 ‘00 great All book jazz tomor-
: decisions thing beat revisit- row’s
consid- ed music
ered
9 ‘O00 firing
: line
] 0 :30 tomorrow’s jazz it’s all per-
: music revisit- your things  spec-
ed affair consid, tive

 

UVUUUUIOUUOUUUUOUQV0V00U00000001 040000 OUUSUAOUUUEUUUUUUOUVOUUUOOGUOEUUUAUAVUUAAUU EEUU

SATURDAY

7:00 Saturdays aint so bad

10:00 playback

11:00 oldies authority

2:00 weekend opera

5:00 wlur’s anti-headache machine
10:00 Saturday rock spectacular

SUNDAY

7:00 good morning show
12:00 good afternoon show
5:00 Sunday classical showcase
8:00 age of telemann
9:00 Rothgard Schickle
10:00 third ear magazine
2:00 good night

 

community

— wlurfm
91.5

box 1153-463-2869

 

 
The Ring-tum Phi

Washington and Lee University’s Weekly Newspaper

 

Vol. LXXIII

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA,

APRIL 25, 1974

Number 24

 

 

as follows:

below)

of $10. (p. 67, catalogue).

If you intend to

to your adviser.
If a course requires

 

REGISTRATION FOR NEXT YEAR

1. Registration for courses to be given next year will be held

JUNIORS (rising Seniors)—Monday,
SOPHOMORES (rising Juniors)—Tuesday,

FRESHMEN (rising Sophomores)—Wednesday, May 1

2. If you plan not to return to Washington and Lee in
September, please inform the Registrar of your intentions.

3. A student who fails to pre-register at the designated time
during the Spring Term will be subject to a late registration fee

NOTE: SOPHOMORES (rising Juniors) must declare a major on
a Declaration of Major Form.

take a P.E. Skills

AUTHORIZATION CARD in advance and take it with you

permission (check catalogue) it must be
obtained before registering. STUDENTS WHO REGISTER
FOR SUCH A COURSE WITHOUT PERMISSION ARE SUB-
JECT TO BEING DROPPED BY THE DEPARTMENT.

April 29
April 30 (see note

Course, obtain an

 

 

Glasgow endowment
to bring Ishmael Reed,
Allen Ginsberg here

This week the Glasgow Endow-
ment will sponsor two guest
speakers, Ishmael Reed and Allen
Ginsberg. The former is a black
author, journalist and teacher
who is slated to speak tonight at
8:15 in Lee Chapel. Ginsberg will
be here next Wednesday to de-
liver a reading from his poetry,
again at 8:15. The public is in-
vited to attend without charge.

Wilson Foundation to bring
politics expert for week visit

Carter L. Burgess, chairman of
the board of Flagship Interna-
tional, a subsidiary of American
Airlines, will visit Washington
and Lee University next week
(April 28-May 3) as the school’s
second Woodrow Wilson Founda-
tion Senior Fellow.

Burgess—a native of Roanoke
and a 1939 Virginia Military Insti-
tute graduate—will deliver an ad-
dress Monday (April 29) on “The
Multinational Corporation” at 7:30

p.m. in duPont Auditorium, and
the public is invited to atend
without charge.

He will also meet with classes
in both the law and commerce
schools at Washington and Lee,
and informally with students and
faculty throughout the week.

Burgess has been president of
Trans World Airlines (TWA) and
chairman of the board and chief
executive officer of American
Machine & Foundry Co. He is

 

Applications are now being
accepted by the Publications
Board for all top editorial and
business managerial positions
on all of Washington and Lee’s
1974 publications. Applications
will be due Monday, April 29,
1974, by noon in the Publica-
tions Board box in the Univer-
sity Center.

Positions available are as fol-
lows: editor-in-chief of the
Ring-tum Phi, editor of the
Calyx, editor of the Ariel, busi-
ness manager of the Ring-tum
Phi, and business manager of
the Calyx.

Applicants for any of these
positions should plan to appear
for an interview before the
Publications Board Tuesday,
April 30, at 7:30 p.m. in the
University Center,

Applications should include:

 

—A brief letter of intent
stating your name and the
position for which you will
apply;

—Ten copies of a persona]
resume containing academic
and extracurricular data and
pertinent employment experi-
ences on W&L and other pub-
lications. These resumes should
be in outline form and should
not include plans or specific
proposals which the applicant
may wish to present to the
Publications Board.

The required personal ap-
pearance before the Board is
expected to be brief and rele-
vant, Presentations, at the op-
tion of the applicant, may be
accompanied by written out-
lines of plans or proposals. If
this is done, the applicant
should ‘bring ten copies of
these plans to the interview.

 

 

currently on the boards of di-
rectors of American Airlines,
Ford Motor Co., Morgan Guar-
anty Trust Co., and other busi-
ness institutions. He is also a
trustee of The George C. Marshall
Research Library in Lexington.
In 1968-69 he was ambassador to
Argentina, and served as assistant
secretary of defense under Presi-
dent Eisenhower.

Burgess is one of a number of
prominent men and women in
business, journalism, public serv-
ice and other professions who
have been invited by the Wilson
Foundation to spend periods of
a week on_ selected colleges
campuses to foster a closer under-
standing of the educational and
protessional worlds by members
of both. Washington and Lee is
one of 60 colleges in the nation
designated to participate in the
unique program.

Lexington judge fines
W&L streaker $100

A Washington and Lee sopho-
more was fined $100 Tuesday
after he pleaded no contest to a
charge of indecent exposure for
running nude, streaking, in Lex-
ington.

John Keefe, 20, of Milford,
Conn., said in Lexington General
District Court Tuesday that he
and an unidentified friend made
the streak on a $5 bet.

Keefe made the
March,

streak in

Reed’s latest novel is “The Last
Days of Louisiana Red,” publish-
ed by Random House. In 1973 he
was nominated for two National
Book Awards, one for fiction and
one for poetry, and was a Pulitzer
Prize nominee in poetry as well.
His other works include “Mumbo
Jumbo” (1972), “Yellow Back
Radio Broke Down” (1969), “The
Free-Lance Pallbearers” (1967),
and two volumes of poetry, “Chat-

tanooga” (1973) and “Conjure”
(1972).
Ginsberg has had seven col-

lections of his poetry published
to date. He recently won the Na-
tinoal Book Award for his volume
“The Fall of America: Poems of
Three States, 1965-1971” publish-
ed by City Lights Press. Aside
from being a political activist and
poet Ginsberg describes himself
as “advisory guru” to “The Mari-
juana Review.”

The Glasgow Endowment was
created in 1955 “to promote the
art of expression by pen and
tongue.”

Lacrosse game,
dance highlight
this weekend

The first big spring weekend
of 1974 gets underway Friday
with “The Last Sock Hop” spon:
sored by the Washington nad Lee
junior class.

The dance in Red Square runs
from 8 p.m. to midnight and is
open to all card-carrying W&L
students and their dates. There
is no admission charge.

Featured will be the music of
the early 60’s, with special guest
The Wolfman himself.

Also this weekend is a lacrosse
game on Wilson Field at 2 p.m
Top-ranked “college division”
team Towson State will face the
number three university-ranked
team, W&L.

Saturday, there will be a dance
featuring “Chess” and another
group. The dance is scheduled for
Saturday night in the old gym.

Generals top Wahoos, 13-11
Page 2 THE RING-TUM PHI

A little fable

(Reprinted, with a few up to date changes, from last year’s Ring-
tum Phi.)

Once unon a time there was a sleepy little school in a sleepv
little town in a beautiful and green valley with mountains all around.
The students at the school were like those anywhere else—some
slept all the time, some played, others walked around with their
noses buried in big thick books. During the spring there seemed to
he fewer and fewer with their noses in books: most bought inner
tubes and spent their Saturday afternoons floating in big pools of
heer or Southern Comfort.

Alas, it seemed for a long time that none of these boys could
become interested in anything but reading or floating all day long.
Until one dav one got the bright idea of tving a net on the end
of a pole and tossing a ball with it. Soon everyone in the little
town was running up and down the football field, waving their
sticks, hitting each other with them, and having a glorious time.

Then, word of the Wahoos came to town. No one knew what a
Wahoo was or where the Wahoos came from. They carried sticks
just the same. tossed the ball quickly from one to the other—and
the neonle in the little town were sore afraid.

Then the people said, “Why don’t we leave our books and our
inner tubes and join together to beat back these Wahoos?” And it
was done. The books were tossed aside and the lovely pools were
drunk drv—and everyone gathered together and travelled to the
lnir of the Wahoos to end their threat, once and for all. The battle
hegan.

The Wahoos looked mean and fierce. Most people thought the
Wahoos were meaner and fiercer than the people of the sleepy little
school. But as the battle began, a Skeeter gritted his teeth and said,
“The Wahoos aren’t that tough.” And sending their Teddv, their
Skipper, and all the rest downfield, the people of the beautiful and
green vallev beat the Wahoos and showed them who was meaner
and tougher.

It is said that the people of the sleenvv little school] will never be
the same again. They are no longer afraid of anyone. They have
their Skeeter, their Teddy, their Skipper, and all the rest. And they
have a reason to drink up those beautiful little pools of beer and
Southern Comfort. The End.

 

Helping town-gown relations

The next time someone comes up to you and tells you that Wash-
ington and Lee students are a kind of parasitic horde which has
descended uvon Lexington, not caring what happens to the city
as long as they themselves are satisfied, consider this:

Earlier this month, senior John Zamoiski spotted a local resident
dumping a bag of garbage on North Main Street in Lexington from
his moving station wagon. Zamoiski followed the local resident
stopped him, and asked him to pick up the garbage. The resident
refused.

Zamoiski said he would have the resident arrested unless he
picked up the garbage, at which point the resident went to his place
of business and locked himself in.

The W&L senior swore out a warrant at the Lexington police
station and took the officers out to pick up the garbage as evidence.
Tneluded among the garbage was a quantitv of broken glass, great
for automobile tires.

The resident was arrested on a misdemeanor charge of littering,
and he posted $35.25 bond. He forfeited that bond.

As Zamoiski said, “The students always get blamed for the trash
around town.”

Perhaps the merit of this little incident is just that it shows not
all students are really out to destroy Lexington. Whether all students
erally care anything about Lexington is doubtful. But at least this
incident points to the situation that, although there may be students
who don’t care anything about Lexington, there seem to be some
Lexingtonians who should share equally in the disfavor of proud
Lexington residents.

Yet we fear the student “aggression” against the city will be that
which is cited by the townspeople, while those within the borders
f the “friends and kinfolk” wall around Lexington will be forgiven
end forgotten without second thought.

THE RING-TUM PHI

The Ring-tum Phi is published on Thursdays during the college year.
It is printed by the Journalism Laboratory Press, Washington and Lee
University. The mailing address is Box 899, Lexington, Virginia 24450.
Entered as second class matter September 29, 1946, at the Post Office,
Lexington, Virginia 24450, under the act of March 3, 1879. Subscription
rates: $6.00 for the school year, $3.00 for the semester.

PAUL J. LANCASTER ANDREW J. A. CHRISS
Editor-in-chief Business Manager

ee ee ee ey ee Jess Reeves
UIE TE i as 5 ohh bes cae ba eb ee cere esesees Bill Austin

Thursday, April 25, 1974

   

Ask Traveller

Next week marks the first anniversary of Al Black’s rise to
prominence as W&L’s most mundane man or, more popularly referred
to in Moslem car lots, as, St. Alvin the Lackluster. This inoffensive
senior from Davis Dorm so dazzled his peers with his docile spirit,
bland character, and inability to part his hair from the left, that he
won nocturnal accolades from last year’s student body and the
unprecedented honor of having a schoolday set aside in his name,
as well as a $25 scholarship in the Lasalle Extension’s graduate pro-
gram of motel management and the proper feeding of yak.

But Al Black is now gone, we think. At least he’s not in his room.
To fill the immense void left by Al’s graduation, a new student must
be selected from the ranks of W&L. Four fellows were recently
nominated for the great distinction in a closed session of the Rock-
bridge Garden Club’s executive and pruning council. With its per-
mission, I present the names to you today with thumbnail resumes.
The selections took approximately three minutes, in between the
Club’s old business and break for refreshments.

*Ben “Scuds” Cherman, ’75: student government secretary; la-
crosse team manager; special assistant to no one in particular; minor-
ing in being seen; listed in Who's Who in Vocational Schools and
Bldg. & Ground as being the same height as Napoleon; enjoys im-
personating John the Baptist at EC tubing parties “though I prefer
cold cuts to wild honey and locusts;” favorite C-School topic—“Is
Morality C.0O.D. or what?

*Ted “Two-tone”? Amshoff, ’74; vigorous Young Republican and
the campus authority on Caldwell Butler’s farm policy in Henrico
County; appeared in the last issue of the Lampoon as a subscription
blank; considered to have the loudest shirt and tie combinations in
Lexington; voted New Jersey’s best dressed mannequin award in 1972.

*Wayne “Hottip” Baker, ’74: WLUR henchman; current events
expert with the power of his convictions and the raucous voice to
back them up; covered the Mock Convention from a closet in Art
Silver’s haberdashery with seven dozen plaid shirts and a trout fish-
ing license; gained regional fame by tossing out the first cadet at
the New Market Reenactment last year; challenged Dean Farrar to
reveal the name of his barber or favorite charity in famous campus
confrontation.

*Kevin “No-further-questions” Murray, ’77; infamous chairman of
the randomly-selected honor trial jury, who succinctly differentiated
between “honor before guilt,” “intent without honor,” “honor with-
out intent or guilt,” and “bacon and lettuce—hold the mayo”; enjoys
listening to leaves fall in the autumn.

So there they are, the four nominees for Al Black Day in 1974.
Do with them what ve will but give me Barabbas. The winner wil!
be given the ceremonial key to Lake Huron and the 4-H bestseller:
Guano Go Home? The Guide to Fowlfeathered Fertilizer and Other
Crap. The student selected, who refuses to accept these lovely part-
ing gifts, will be given the kev to Lake Superior, as well, and forced
to perform unnatural acts with a lamprey eel.

Phi, WLUR awarded

regional news honors

Junior Paul Lancaster won a
regional award for editorial writ-
ing.

The three students will be
honored May 4 at the regional
and national awards convention

Washington and Lee’s two mass
media, WLUR-FM and the Ring-
tum Phi have been honored in
regional competition by the So-
ciety of Professional Journalists,
Sigma Delta Chi.

Chet Burgess and Ken Julian
won an award from SPJ for their
news program “Perspective,” air-
ed over WLUR each Friday of
the school vear at 5:00 and 10:30
p.m. They are both seniors.

in Williamsburg. The region in-
cludes colleges and universities
in Virginia, Maryland, North
Carolina, and Washington, DC.
The winning entries will now be
submitted to national competition.

Town-gown meeting set Tuesday

On Tuesday, April 30, at 8 p.m.
the Washington and Lee Con-
servative Society will present a
campus-town meeting between
members of the university com-
munity and local city officials in
Fairfax Lounge of the University
Center.

The purpose of this meeting is
to allow students and other mem-
bers of the University community
to express their thoughts, com-
plaints, suggestions, or even

praise to leading figures in the
Lexnigton city administration.

The campus-town meeting is
open to all types of discussion
with Lexington officials and is
described as “free-wheeling.”
Scheduled to attend the meeting
are: John V. Doane, City Man-
ager; Lloyd R. Bowling, member
of the City Council; C. H. Patton,
member of the City Council; and
a representative of the Lexington
City Police Department.

 
Thursday,

Drama academy
names Kahn
to board

The director of the Washington
and Lee University Theatre, Prof.
Lee Kahn, has been named to the
board of directors of the Ameri-
can Academy of Dramatic Arts,
the nation’s oldest professional
acting school.

Kahn was installed as a direc-
tor this month in a ceremony at
the Morosco Theatre on Broaday
in New York. Academy directors
include actors and actresses such
as Jason Robards and Lillian
Gish as well as other profes-
sionals in the dramatic arts.

Kahn has been director of the
W&L theatre since 1965. Prior
to joining the Washington and
Lee faculty he was director of
theatre at Delta State College in
Mississippi. He holds the B.A. and
master’s degree in fine arts from
Tulane University.

PAA renter en etene eet anette ete et eta ate' “

LOWEST
JET FARES
TO EUROPE

of any scheduled airline

<n“e°aXe*a*e" eg
o"Fe"e"

from from
NEW YORK | CHICAGO

‘187 |'229

One way to Luxembourg
through May 31

Effective for individuals :
on scheduled jets to Lux-
embourg in the heart of
Europe. SAVE $72 to $101
on overseas stays of over
45 days against lowest
comparable fares of any
other scheduled airline.

SHOW INITIATIVE!
SAVE MORE MONEY!

Students can arrange their
own Affinity Groups of 25
Or more passengers and
qualify for Icelandic’s low-
est-cost one-way affinit
fares. No other airline of-
fers one-way affinity fares.
SAVE via Icelandic no mat-
ter when you leave or how
long you stay.

SEE YOUR TRAVEL AGENT.
Prices subject to change.
To: Icelandic Airlines

630 5th Ave., N.Y., N.Y. 10020
(212) 757-8585

Send folder CN on Lowest
Youth Fares to Europe [J

cerece rele .#cP AAs TNC aPe aaa aoe”

 

etal eZelel eee alae ele *:

Name
Street
City
State

oe

My travel agent is____

ICELANDIC

 

 

April

25, 1974

 

Town and gown differences
set aside in Outing Club

By PAUL MORELLA

Initiated last spring for the
purpose of taking advantage of
the outdoor opportunities avail-
able in the Rockbridge County

area, the Outing Club has become
active in the Lexington com-
munity.

Oriented towards all people, the
Outing Club not only offers in-
formation on game facilities, but
also facilitates contact between
students and townspeople.

The club is comprised of about
90 members, including students
from W&L and VMI, as well as
members of the Lexington com-
munity. A six-man steering com-
mittee, made up of those people
who played a substantial role in
the development of the club were
elected by the membership at
large as a sort of executive body
which loosely runs the club. The
six persons are: senior Bill Wal-
lace; junior Greg Amonette; law
student Fran Lawrence; W&L
faculty member, John McDaniel;
and two members of the Lexing-
ton community, Chris Murray
and Don Firebaugh.

According to Amonette, the most
active segment of the club thus
far has been the hunting, fish-
ing and conservation aspects. For
example, through the club, the
Hays Creek fishing club was
formed, over 2,000 autumn olive,
bicolor, and lespedia_ wildlife
shrubs were planted, and many
other programs geared towards
improving our natural habitat
were initiated.

In addition the Outing Club
hosts a number of monthly pro-
grams and_ outside activities,
which included such things as
field trials for bird dogs, a pro-
gram on wild turkey in the area,

a fly-tying clinic, and a seminar
on conservation to name some of

THE RING-TUM PHI Page 3
This spring, members of the

Outing Club have been toying

with many ideas and have sug-

the more successful activities of
the club.

“It seems that when we have
a feature to offer, such as the
wild turkey meeting,” stated Dr.
McDaniel, “the meetings are well
attended. But when we don’t have
as much to offer, the attendance
is disappointing.” Dr. McDanie]
continued, ‘There are so many
opportunities available to us that
we must take advantage of them.
This organization can at least pro-
vide the student with the in-
formation concerning our sur-
roundings.”

“The ultimate goal of the Out-
ing Club” feels Fran Lawrence,
“is to bring things to the campus
that interest people as well as
trving to provide a forum for the
encouragement and advancement
of outdoor activities.” In addition,
Fran feels that another goal of
the club is to establish an office
type situation somewhere in the
city of Lexington. Right now, the
club meets in a room at the W&L
Student Center.

WLUR

91.5
on your FM dial

are you ready

for al black?

 

gested the possibility of a canoe
race on the Maury River. “How-
ever,” cited Dr. McDaniel, “I hope
the club continues to receive the
support that it has because it is
difficult to do what we are doing
without support.”

The club conducts its meetings
every Monday and Thursday in
the Student Center.

 

 

| Call or write for the Sunmmer Bulletin:
Stu mer i Session pee ice, c OW. Post Center

R/C Theatres
Regal Cinema Fare
in Lexington

State Theatre

12-14 W. Nelson St. 463-3424

THRU MAY 2

Best Picture of the Year

The Sting

Lyric Cinema

135 S. Main St. 463-354]

NOW SHOWING

Butch Cassidy
and the
Sundance Kid

 

 
Page 4

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

Netters are 11-5,
in VCAA’s Friday

By JOHN ELLIS

W&L’s tennis team, the defend-
ing VCAA tournament champion,
ravels to Madison College Friday
in hopes of returning with the
Virginia small college tourney’s

ywn again. Ranked as a prob-

le second favorite, behind
Hampton Institute, the netmen
ut on the line their 11-5 record.

Leading the Madison invasion

il] be W&L’s first singles player
half of the first doubles
team), John Embree, who to date
has posted a 13-3 record in singles,
losing only to what Coach Bob

avies describes as “the extreme-
good players.” Embree and

m Cafferv have chalked up a

.
anda

8-5 record as the top W&L
yubles team. Embree is only

one of three returning champions
m last year’s VCAA tourney.
Varren Davis and Sandy Lawr-
ence join him in that distinction.
Reflecting on the season so far,

Coach Davies commented,
“Things are going pretty well.
I think we’ll finish strongly. I
hope for a 16-6 record (at the
end of the vear).”

The team is composed of eight
probable lettermen, three frosh,
two seniors and juniors, and one
sophomore. One of the freshmen,

xen Voelker, playing third
singles, is undefeated, with a
1-0 record. Voelker teams with

third doubles
5-0 record.
W&L's record is deceptive. Of
the five losses the team has in-
curred, four of them have been
to major college teams (U.Va.,
Bicria- SS. Wuorida,- Vita.

Davis to form the

team, which has a

NOTICE
The W&L-U.Va. lacrosse game
will be televised locally April 28.
Roanoke station WRFT, Channel
27, will broadcast the game at 2:30.

SPRING WON’T WAIT

Get yourself in gear and come on down to

The Lexington Bicycle Shop

All types of bikes for all types of people

Fuji, Batavus, Mercier

singles, 3-, 5-, 10-speed and adult 3-wheelers

Also: Repairs, Parts, Accessories

OPEN: 10-5 Monday-Saturday
130 S. MAIN STREET

 

OOO COCOOEOEOEEEO ES OOOOH SOESOSO DOO OOOO SOSOOS

Washington and Lee University

Bonukstore

SPRING FEVER
AND DELIRIUM

10 per cent Off
On All Books

April 22-26

eoeeceeeoee 2@eeeoeeece 2eoe72e2e20880

Thursday, April 25, 1974
Drama prot Barnes
asked to leave W&L

year short of tenure

By ROBERT COOK

Assistant Professor of Drama
O. K. Barnes III has been notified
bv the administration he will not
be asked to return to the uni-
versity after this next year.

Barnes said he received a letter
from Dean Watt two weeks ago
informing him his employment
with Washington and Lee Uni-
sersity would be terminated
August 1975, one vear short of
tenure.

Barnes said Monday he had met
with Dean Watt and President
Huntley after receiving the letter
to discuss the reasons for their
decision. After the discussions
Barnes said he felt the action had
been based on “hearsay, the opin-

CO}CCCSCOCOCRCESESCHESCESEEOCCE

Paul’s Bike Shop

11 N. New St., Staunton
Phone 886-1310
PAUL Now Accepting All
BIKE REPAIRS at
Sears’ Lexington Store

Pick-Up Every Wednesday
Returned On Wednesday.
Also New 10 Speeds Batavus
Bikes For Sale.

Peeeeceeseeeeoee2eseOoaee?

    
    
   
      
   
 
   
 
     
 
   
 
 
   

Wendell’s
Barber Shop

OPEN 9.6
9 South Jefferson

Closed Wednesday

For

ion of a few people and some
down right untruths.”

Following school policy Dean
Watt would not comment on any
aspect of a professor’s relation
to the university. Dr. Robert
Stewart, acting head of the fine
arts department, would say that
the decision in no way reflected
on Barnes’ skills as a set designer,
which Stewart praised highly.

Stewart said that the reasons
for Barnes’ dismissal were educa-
tional in nature.

At the moment Barnes said he
is awaiting a written reply to a
letter he sent to the administra-

tion requesting the _ specific
charges against him be spelled
out.

Barnes said he felt that while
it was “probably too late to alter
the administration’s decision, the
university has a right to have the
facts set out in the open.”

 

East Lexington
Grocery

Beer — Ice — Gas
Party Supplies — Snacks
ABC No. 2078—8 a.m.-10 p.m.

SHOP FOR SUNDAY

We Sell & Deliver Kegs

Open 7 days a week

EVENING DINNER

 

 

 

   

KEYDET-GRYERAL
Restaurant and Motel

Truly One of the South’s Finest
Superb Dining and
Picturesque Atmosphere.
Serving Food in the
Fine Tradition of Virginia.

Reservations Phone 463-2143

Complete Facilities for

Banquets, Weddings & Receptions
: t, One Mile West of Lexington on U.S. 60

_ 1 PROMISE
NOT TO PLAY

 
 

 
 

Thursday, April 25, 1974 THE RING-TUM PHI Page 5

 

   

Saturday, April 27 Sunday, April 28 =

noon ’til moon 1 p.m. ‘til sundown

 

featuring featuring
Steve Miller Band Mandrill
plus plus

 

McKendree Spring Kool & the
James Cotton Gang
Blues Band Funkadelics
Boz Scaggs Bobby Womack
Dr. John Bloodstone
Amboy Dukes Ujima
Stories Charisma
ENJOY a day or two of fun and music under the sunny springtime skys of
the Old Dominion. Blues, boogie, rock ’n roll on Saturday and funky, funky

sounds on Sunday. Plenty of music, plenty of space to stretch out on the

grass, plenty of seats in the stands, plenty of refreshments ... and NO

HASSLES.

RICHMOND CITY STADIUM, RICHMOND, VA.

DIRECTIONS: 7? C KE = R O N ®

Take Interstate 64

 

 

 

 

or 95 to Admission $7.00 Advance per day, $8.00 per day of show.
Richmond. Take meee ROANOKE: Heironomous, Downtown

Boulevard Exit and | Gag #& CHARLOTTESVILLE: Sears

follow the signs to . sg DANVILLE: Sears

the City Stadium. "scracgl LYNCHBURG: Sears

 

Beware of the man in the street. The Ticket he tries to sell you will not be real.

 
ry

age THE RING-TUM PHI

 

The

By BILL FLESHER

With a national television audi-
ence and the largest crowd ever
ta see a lacrosse game in Virginia
looking on, Washington and Lee
jumped out to an early 3-0 lead,
then held off a late Virginia rally
to down the Cavaliers, 13-11, in
Charlottesville Saturday.

It marked the second straight
vear that the Generals had “up-
set,” to use the term loosely,
their lacrosse archrivals, and it
proved that Washington and Lee
is a national power that will have
to be reckoned with.

Last year W&L, behind Ted
Bauer’s six goals, Skip Lichtfuss’
three goals and three assists, and
the superb goal tending of Skeet
Chadwick, sent a defending na-
tional champion Cavalier unit
home 15-11 losers.

But this year things were dif-
ferent. The scene had been chang-
ed to Scott Stadium, and it was
to be the Wahoos who were out
for revenge.

The Cavaliers got close, but
never could make the big move
when they needed it.

“We were sloppy at times, but
we always had enough to win,”
said W&L head coach Jack
Emmer after the game.

“We have definitely had better
stick-handling games than we did
against Virginia,” Emmer added,
citing the Navy game as the Gen-
erals’ best outing of the year.

Freshman midfielder Jack Dud-
ley led W&L scorers with three
goals, all in the second half.
Lichtfuss and Don Carroll added
two goals apiece, while the Gen-
erals’ leading scorer Dave War-
field threw in one goal and as-
sisted on three others.

Dudley, who is on the “blue”
midfield with Bauer and John

Lalley, benefited from the Vir-
ginia strategy to stop Bauer and
Lichtfuss “no matter what.”

“No matter where Teddy or I
were, there would be at least one
middie staring us in the face,”
Lichtfuss said. “Even if we were
out of the play, the middie would
still be there, which opened things
up for our other guys.”

The Generals lost the opening
faceoff (they ended up winning
only 10 of the 29 faceoffs), but
did not allow Virginia to get off
a shot. Lichtfuss then took con-
trol in the attacking end, and
seored unassisted to open the
scoring at 2:20. Goals by Bill
Rienhoff (at 2:58) and Don Car-
roll (at 8:34) made it 3-0, and, for
the time, it looked like it might
not be a contest.

“We played our best lacrosse in
the first ten minutes,” Emmer
said. “It took Virginia eight
minutes to get off their first
shot, which is an indication of
how good our defense can be.”

But the Cavaliers refused to
fold. Freshman midfielder Rich-
ard Krol! scored at 13:25 to make
it 3-1. Thirty seconds later, Barry
Robertson, the Wahoos’ leading
screr, tallied to cut the margin to
3-2 after one period.

W&L opened the second quarter
with another three-goal spurt to
extend their lead to 6-2. Bauer
fired a hard shot past Virginia
goalie Rodney Rullman at 1:05,
then Carroll and Lichtfuss scored
their second goals within 16 sec-
onds of each other midway
through the period.

But again the Generals could
not stop the Wahoos late in the
period. Kroll scored his second
at 13:57 to cut the lead to 6-3.
With only :12 left in the half,
Robertson broke up a W&L clear-

 

machines, locations,

interested in applying for
ward financial success,

 

SPARE TIME BUSINESS

Own your own profitable vending business. $200 to $600
monthly earnings possible in your spare time (day or
eve.), NO SELLING. If selected, you will be servicing
company established locations,
OUR COMPANY IS A SUPPLIER OF
NABISCO SNACK ITEMS.
REQUIREMENTS: $1,000 to $5,000 Cash Investment,

(secured by machines and merchandise)

good character, dependable auto, and 6 to 9 spare hours
weekly. Income starts immediately! We supply product,
expansion
option, and professional guidance. If you are sincerely
this genuine opportunity to-
please call or write (include
phone number) for personal interview in your area to:

MR. ROBERT L.
WORLD INDUSTRIES INC,
Executive Suite 303

1919 East 52nd Street
Indianapolis,
Telephone (317) 257-5767

financing, buy back

ANDERSON

Indiana 46205

 

 

Thursday, April 25, 1974

ing attempt and fired into an
empty net, making it a 6-4 game
at the half.

After Lalley and Robertson
traded goals early in the third
stanza to make the score 7-5, the
Generals launched their third
three-goal splurge. Dudley got his
first at 2:31, followed by fresh-
man Chris Larson at 8:24, and
Bryan Chasney at 11:48. W&L
then led 10-5, and again threat-
ened to runaway from the Cava-
liers.

But again Virginia fought back,
this time with a three-goal spurt
of their own. Josh Pons scored at
13:02 of the third to make it 10-6,
then Stan Dorney, who had a part
in all five of Virginia’s fourth
period goals, and Doug Cooper
scored early in the final quarter
to cut the Generals lead to 10-8.

Dudley, on a brilliant one-on-

enerals dump Virginia

one move, made it 11-8 at 4:36.
But Virginia’s Paul Marchiano
scored at 6:52 to make it 11-9.

Then W&L moved to slam the
door on the Wahoos. Warfield,
after losing the ball near the
crease, picked it up and threw it
by an out-of-position Rullman at
9:40 to up the lead to 12-9, Then
Dudley got his third goal on a
feed from Carroll to give the
Generals a 13-9 lead.

Owen Daly and Dorney scored
for Virginia in the final seconds
but by then, the outcome had
been decided.

“We had several chances to put
them away, but we never took
advantage,” Emmer said. “They
never folded, but we helped by
letting them off the hook a few
times.”

And it happens again next year
—on Wilson Field.

Lacrosse notes

By BILL FLESHER

Though Washington and Lee
won THE game against Virginia
Saturday, the 1974 season is far
from being over. Five games re-
main on the Generals’ slate, all
with teams from the college di-
vision. And, just because the op-
ponents are referred to as being
“small schools” doesn’t mean that
the rest of the season will be a
cakewalk for W&L.

Among the Generals’ foes are
three of the best college division
teams in the nation—top-ranked
Towson State (April 27), number
three Cortland State (May 11),
and second-ranked Washington
College (May 4).

Also left for W&L are games
with Roanoke College on April
30 and Franklin and Marshall on
May 8.

All five games are home con-
tests for W&L, which is a big
advantage as the season draws to
a close.

% % a

Out of Scott Stadium and into
the Phi....

W&L midfielder John Lalley
is on the cover of the Virginia
lacrosse brochure. What I can’t
figure out is why the Cavaliers’
sports information people would
want to stir up sour memories
with that particular picture.....
Only five seniors graduate for
Virginia this year. However, four
of them, Barry Robertson, Doug
Cooper, Greg Montgomery, and
Boo Smith, form the nucleus of
the team,

THINGS I LIKED ABOUT
SATURDAY — The weather.....
The crowd of 10,000, which inci-
dentally, was the biggest crowd
ever to see a lacrosse game in

NEED MONEY?

$15 for a few hours of
easy work on
Sunday, April 28.
Call anytime—463-9395

ss Se

Virginia The fact that
none of the ushers were able to
enforce the “no containers allow-
ed inside” regulation, which made
the game a lot more enjoyable
for many fans..... The fact
that half of the crowd was pull-
ing for the Generals..... The
telecast of the game helped make
more people aware that Washing:
ton and Lee is no Cinderalla out-
fit.

THINGS { DID NOT LIKE
ABOUT SATURDAY — The un-
necessary television timeouts call-
ed with less than thirty seconds
left in the quarter..... The
public address announcer, with
his repeated chorus, in a disturb-
ing, nasal voice, of “Waaaaahoo
ee Some W&L fans were
forced to miss the early minutes
due to Saturday morning classes,
which really could have been
scheduled for another time.....
The traffic situation in Charlot-
tesville The coverage of
the game by two area news-
papers, one which headlined its
lacrosse summary with “Virginia
Loses” rather than “Generals
Win,” the other though giving the
story the top of the first sports
page, giving more space and pic-
tures to the Towson State-Roa-
noke College game. The headlines
were even more upsetting, as the
crowd was featured in the head-
lines in the W&L-Virginia article,
while “No. 1” Towson got top-
billing in the other piece, I wish
that someone would explain the
difference between the top-rank-
ed teams in the University and
College Division to our Roanoke
neighbors. After all, not to put
down Towson State, they’re not
Maryland, at least let’s hope not.

 

Hamric and Sheridan
JEWELERS

Watch and Jewelry Repair |

Hand Engraving & Class Rings |

463-2022 |

 

 

 
Thursday, April 25, 1974

Baseball squad ends losing skein

By BILL AUSTIN
Scores:

W&L 5—Madison 9

W&L 10—Lynchburg Baptist 1

Following a tough loss to Madi-
son College last Thursday, the
baseball Generals broke a 7-game
losing streak with a thrashing of
Lynchburg Baptist. Possessors of
a modest 6-7 won-lost record for
the season to date, the squad thus
awaited news of the VCAA’s picks
for its four-team tournament,
scheduled this coming Saturday.

Madison appeared a sure choice
for one of the two spots available
for Western Division teams, with
Lynchburg College another prob-
able selection. However, W&L
clung to an outside chance of
securing the second spot, based
on the merit of its schedule, cer-
tainly a more challenging one
than has been Lynchburg’s. A
decision was expected Wednes-
day.

In the game at Madison, the
Generals stayed even with their
powerful opponents into the 6th
inning, when Madison left fielder
Billy Sample drilled a bases-load-
ed triple off pitcher Rod Fer-
randino. The hit highlighted a 4-
run rally which staked the Dukes
to a 7-3 lead.

W&L came back in the 7th
with singles by Otey and Costello,
and a double by Lancaster. With
one run already in, pinch-runner
Jack Herron apparently beat the
Madison throw to the plate on
Lancaster’s hit. The umpire deem-
ed otherwise. The inning and the
General threat ended when Bon-
aventura whiffed.

The Generals closed the gap to

Sebati bbb
° . . %
: The First National Bank :
t of Lexington ;
7

: has special checking accounts for students z
i %
Teed deteceobbo defetotettedededeebebadedetiet

 

7-5 in the 8th, when Hathway
doubled and came home on a
Rheault single. Unfortunately,
Madison hitters tagged relief
pitcher Carpentier for a pair of
bizarre solo home runs. The first
did not clear the outfield fence,
but rather passed under it, only
to be ruled a legitimate round-
tripper. The second was a well-
hit single which bounced over
centerfielder Lancaster’s head.

For Ferrandino, the loss was
his third straight. Jim Barbe went
the distance for Madison, yield-
ing eight General hits, striking
out 10.

Monday, the team returned to
Lexington, hosting Lynchburg
Baptist in a contest originally
scheduled for Saturday. The Gen-
erals pounced on Baptist starter
Rich Zazuetta for seven runs in
the second inning to turn the
affair into a Jaugher. Chip Cos-
tello’s homer keyed the scoring
outburst, but the cause was aided
handily when Lynchburg third-
sacker Bill Johns committed two
errors.

On the mound, Dan Westbrook
registered a complete game, limit-
ing his foes to a single first-in-
ning tally while striking out 10
batters. Defensive support, par-
ticularly in the infield, was good,
as Hathway and Otey seemed bet-
ter adjusted to their positions at
third and second base, respecti-
vely. On the contrary, Lynch-
burg’s infielders staged an exhibi-
tion in folly, booting grounders
and exercising questionable judg-
ment in key situations. Not un-
happily, the Generals play this
same squad again in May.

 

CSOSSECHTEECSCSOGCHTESGEASHSSEHSSETSOESCSSCEOSCOHOSESCESEOSCSCSGOTESS

e
a
6
&
a
: 115 Main St.
ae

e

FOR YOUR EXTRA PIECES OF FURNITURE

Varner & Pole

— Lexington, Va.

 

 

/

 

SsLVUDEN SES!

Make this your headquarters for Good Food

and Service

We have meal tickets at savings to you

SOUTHERN INN

=

 

 

 

 

THE RING-TUM PHI Page 7

tourney play Saturday, the Gen-
erals host Madison College this
coming Tuesday. Game time is
2:30 p.m. Revenge will not come
easily. Then again, the squad has
not Jost on its home field.

Yesterday, W&L’s team sought
the respectability of a .500 record
in an away contest with Hamp-
den-Sydney College. The result
was not available at press time.
Regardless their participation in

 

The Alexander-Withrow House

3 WEST WASHINGTON STREET

A restored historic landmark with five period-furnished guest suites.
A different experience in overnight hospitality for those who love
fine things. Students may make reservations for their parents and
tour the house from 10-2 Tuesday through Saturday or write Mrs.
Harriet Thomas.

 

UMNiv¥eieeis ¢
CLEANERS

Reliable Service In
Dry Cleaning Shirts Laundered

Linen Service Clothing Repair
Storage & Free Moth Proofing

WE DELIVER 463-3622

SHOW YOUR SUPPORT

 

    
  

 

Get

Your
Streaker j
T-shirt

only 3.95 each or 2 for 6.95 post paid
It's the ONLY T-shirt endorsed by
THE INTERNATIONAL STREAKERS ASSOC,
The MASTER ART Co.
Post Office Box 444 — Maumee, Ohio 43537

Size: S—M—L: $3.95 each — $6.95 for 2 — tax incl.
6 SSS
ie oh ss hs as cc ck,
eae ZIP

 

 

 
Page 8 THE RING-TUM PHI Thursday, April 25, 1974

 

 

   

A hang-tag
worth reaaing!
DAVIDSONS

 

 

DAVIDSONS 123 West Nelson Street, Lexington
 

 

Nng-

 

Washington and Lee University’s Weekly Newspaper

 

Phi

 

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA, MAY 2, 1974

Number 25

 

 

Daddy
Spring Weekend.

tabbit performs in Red Square prior to last Friday’s sock hop and grain party as part of

—Photo by Darwin

Independent election changes asked

Pending approval by the Uni-
versity Council and the Indepen-
dent Union, the president of the
Independent Union will be elected
in the upcoming UC elections.

Petitions are due Monday for
the election. Candidates must ob-
tain the signatures of at least 50
students on their petitions.

The president will be elected
in the campus-wide elections and
serve as a representative on the
UC, Pending approval, elections
for the independent president wil!
be held in the Winter Term with
the Interfraternity Council elec-
tions.

The

Independent Union must

Editors
elected

Junior Jess Reeves has been
appointed editor-in-chief of the
Ring-tum Phi for the 1974-75
school year,

Reeves was selected at the
election of editors meeting of the
University Publications Board
Tuesday night. Other appoint-
ments are:

Calyx editor: William Sturges;
Ariel co-editors: Darryl Carlton
and Robert Cook; Ring-tum Phi
manager: David Lee:
Calyx business manager: William
Wallace,

business

enange its constitution to permit
the election. A meeting of the
union is expected to be held this
week to discuss the issue.

The UC, meanwhile, is debating
the issue also. If approved, the
independent president would also
serve on the student discipline re-

view board which is currently
being created to replace the Stu-
dent Affairs Committee.

The vice-president, secretary,
and treasurer of the Independent
Union would be elected at the
first meeting following the presi-
dential election.

New endowment
brings minister

Dr. Harmon L. Smith, profes-
sor of moral theology at Duke
University Divinity School, wil!
visit Washington and Lee Uni-
versity next Thursday, May 9, as
the inaugural speaker in the re-
cently established Philip F. How-
erton Endowment program.

Dr. Smith will speak on medica!
ethics at 8 p.m. in Lee Chapel,
and members of the public are
invited to attend.

Dr, Smith is an ordained Metho-
dist minister who has held two
research fellowships in neurology
—one from The Cooper Founda-

tion and another in St, Barnabas’

Hospital’s department of neuro-
logic surgery

sical ethics

an interdepart-

m being taught this

and Lee ex-

 

; 4 :
Wmivo.veda if1 Dl0-

taught by Dr. Louis W. Hodges,
religion professor.
The Howerton Endowment was

(Continued on page 8)

UC election
petitions due;
Gilliam award

By ROBERT PIEDRAHITA

Petitions from those desiring to
run for positions in the Univer.
sity Council will be due May 6, no
later than midnight. Each peti.
tion must contain 50 signatures
Candidates are expected to attend,
at the same day, an EC meeting
to be held at 7 p.m. in order to
be acquainted with campaign
regulations,

The EC will recommend to the
Student Affairs Committee that
elections for President of thea
Independent Union be held in
the same day as are the UC
elections. Under the proposal,
fifty signatures would be requir-
ed to run as a candidate for the
office. See separate story.

A referendum will be held May
13 in order to decide if the fol.
lowing will be amendments to
the Consitution: (1) one more EC
representative from the freshman
class; (2) exchange students to
vote only if they pay the same
amount of tax (student tax) as
do W&L students; (3) amend-
ments to the Constitution to be
proposed by having a petition
with 200 signatures. An amend.
ment would have to be passed by
two-third of half or over, of those
who vote.

Proposals in the offing are: (1)
student plebiscite to decide on tax
policies; (2) one more representa-
tive to represent the Law School

A meeting will be held in
Lee Chapel (Tuesday night,
May 14, at 8 p.m. The subject
of discussion will be the Honor
Code. Students are urged to
come, and the faculty is in.
vited.

The Mock Convention Steering
Committee with an EC recom.
mendation and EC representative
Tom King will go before Presi.
dent Huntley to ask for a $5.00

(Continued on page 8)

Apartments construction delayed

The Office of University Serv-
ices is sending out a letter to all
those who signed up to live in
the new Woods Creek Apartments
saying that the housing will prob-
ably not be ready by the begin-
ning of the Fall Term. The facili-
ties were to have been completed
by August 31, 1974.

In a letter of April 24, the con-

informed the architects
that the project was not on sched-
ule and completion would run 60

_ 4050.08 _ ooo
‘9 GaVs DenINd origina esti-

tractor

mata
Ila lLes

The contractor went on to state
that he would continue to try to

make up lost time and bring the
project to a close as soon as
possible. The university is trying
to keep the students who con.
tracted to live in the new housing
appraised of the progress being
made,

The University’s lease contract
allows the student to withdraw
‘tom his committment under the
present circumstances if he feels
that he may be inconvienced
by a delay.

Students having any questions
on this matter should make thei
inquiries to Mr. Mohler in the
Office of University Services,
Page 2 THE RING-TUM PHI

 

What price honor?

In light of last week’s public honor trial, the Honor System
has finally become a topic of interest around here. And now
that interest has been aroused, we would like to address our-
selves to the question of honor at Washington and Lee.

One note: this column in no way reflects on last week’s
decision. We affirm the defendant’s innocence as decided by
the jury. The trial did arouse this campus to seriously look
at the question of honor; we subsequently are looking at that
issue—and not at the trial—in this column.

Where has honor gone?

Well over half the students surveyed in a recent question-
naire said they don’t agree with retaining the absolute pen-
alty—expulsion from Washington and Lee—as the punish-
ment for a breach of honor. Over one-third said they knew
of honor violations on campus but they didn’t report them.

More than half felt there was a reluctance to report honor
violations because of the absolute penalty. And three out of
every five surveyed said there would be less inhibition over
reporting an honor violation if the absolute penalty were not
the only punishment for guilt.

Consider a hypothetical pubic honor trial jury—12 stu-
dents. Now, if they anywhere represented the same sampl-
ing of students questioned in the Honor System survey,
seven would disagree with retaining the absolute penalty as
the punishment for honor violations.

On that 12-man jury, five votes in favor of the defendant’s
innocence constitutes acquittal.

How, then, could anyone ever be convicted in a public
honor trial if more than half the jury doesn’t even believe
in the way the Honor System works, assuming the jury
accurately represents the student body?

Is it better to retain the old system in the name of honor
if that system is so prostituted that, as the crux of the whole
Honor System philosophy, honor is replaced by the unwilling-
ness of the students to administer the absolute penalty?

One of the virtues of Washington and Lee, or so the
blurbs in the college profile books say, is its student-run Honor
System. That is doubtful.

Because under the Washington and Lee student-run Honor
System, honor is dying. Just ask the students.

Yet, it still can rise out of the ashes of mediocrity of our
current Honor System. Honor, for what little it seems to be
worth at this time, can still be saved.

Change the penalty. Add a year’s suspension as a possible
penalty. Don’t indicate on the student’s transcript that he
was kicked out because of an honor violation. Do something;
but above all, save honor.

We ask the help of the Executive Committee of the student
body and of the Board of Trustees. They hold the power to
save Washington and Lee’s honor. The EC must show the
Board what the students really think about honor. The EC
must show the Board that honor is dying at Washington
and Lee. And the Board in turn must save honor by altering
the absolute penalty.

What price honor?

—P.J.L.

THE RING-TUM PHI

The Ring-tum Phi is published on Thursdays during the college year.
It is printed by the Journalism Laboratory Press, Washington and Lee
University. The mailing address is Box 899, Lexington, Virginia 24450.
Entered as second class matter September 29, 1946, at the Post Office,
Lexington, Virginia 24450, under the act of March 3, 1879. Subscription
rates: $6.00 for the school year, $3.00 for the semester.

PAUL J. LANCASTER ANDREW J. A. CHRISS

Editor-in-chief Business Manager
ors aie ce esc eee Jess Reeves
I ops as ha i GG Bill Austin

Thursday, May 2, 1974

RO UU Che 7

On the honor trial

Sir:

I am certain that by this time
vou have been besieged with com-
ments of one form or another
concerning the recent honor trial.
This action and the U.Va. lacrosse
game seem to have been the only
incidents that have attracted stu-
dent interest thus far this year.
As a freshman I was greatly in-
terested in this, my first public
honor trial. If I may, I would
like to add my opinions to any
others that you may have re-
ceived.

The one reason, more than any
other, that I decided to come to
this university is the existence of
the Washington and Lee Honor
Code. I was told by people that
the Honor System at W&L really
worked, that honor among men
was a daily practice at this uni-
versity and not some idealized
abstraction. I wanted to be a
part of a tradition where intel-
lectual integrity is of primary
importance. I am disillusioned.

If labels must affixed, I con-
sider myself to be neither con-
servative nor chauvinistic. I am
merely a man who has come to
love this institution and the prin-
cipals on which it was founded.
It may not be in vogue to feel
this way, but I do and offer no
excuses. And I experienced a
great personal insult that Mon-
day evening when Mr. Murray,
the foreman of the honor jury,
had the audacity to tell me that
honor is a nebulous thing. And
because of this, the defendant
could not be found guilty of com-
mitting over 40 instances of plagi-
arism. I fear for the future of
this school. If our Honor System
is undermined, Washington and
Lee will only be exceptional on
the lacrosse field.

I feel no ire against the de-
fendant. The defendant willingly
admitted that he had plagiarized,
but the jury did not seem to
think that this was sufficient for
a conviction. The “intent” behind
the dishonorable act became the
basis for guilt. At this point a
clear breach of the Honor Code
was polluted as a myriad of
“character” witnesses testifield
on the defendant’s behalf. There
is no question in my mind that
the defendant seems to be a re-
spectable fellow. But this fact
should have no bearing on an
honor decision. For the Honor
Code to work, for the survival of
independent exams, for the exist-
ene of this university, an honor
penalty must be absolute.

The trouble seems to lie in the
appeals setup of the Honor Sys-

tem. A public honor trial is not.

a reliable method for upholding
the Honor Code. The record will
show that student juries have
made incredible acquittals in the
past. Twelve inexperienced,
“randomly” selected students can-
not, apparently, rule objectively
on a question of dishonor. They
are placed up on a stage in front
of their peers and lose the cour-
age and conviction needed to im-

plement the absolute penalty.

It is easy to talk about one’s
belief in the Honor Code, but
when it gets right down to it,
when all of the “dirt” of an honor
decision is released from the EC
room and put in the hands of the
students, they fail miserably. If
belief in our Honor Code cannot
be backed up with appropriate
actions, I would rather see the
Code dropped than subjected to
the hypocritical support it is now
receiving.

Sincerely,
Richard 8. Wolf, ’77
Editor's note: No, as usual we
haven't been besieged with
comments concerning the honor
trial. But then, we’re beginning
to think apathy is a _ prere-
quisite for getting into this uni-
versity.

Saving honor at W&L

Sir:

It is readily apparent to me
that the Honor System at Wash-
ington and Lee is in need of some
careful revision. Recent events
have influenced my previously
conservative views towards the
sentence to be imposed upon con-
viction of a student at a public
hearing.

No one likes to think of a stu-
dent being asked to leave Wash-
ington and Lee, regardless of
whether or not his transcript
indicates that he is leaving due
to an Honor Violation conviction.
However, it is my position that
transferring to another college
(upon conviction by the Execu-
tive Committee) is just not that
big a deal. I recognize the fact
that a convicted student who de-
cides to transfer to another col-
lege may be leaving the best
friends he has ever had, and I
personally consider it a great
privilege to be a student at
W&L. However, it is also neces-
sary to recognize the number of
voluntary transferrals in and out
of W&L and other colleges that
are taking place nowadays.

It is my proposal that a con-
viction at a public hearing should
not be distinguished from an Ex-
ecutive Committee conviction; no
indication of an Honor Violation
should be made on the transcript
of a student who has been con-
victed at a public hearing.

I would like to strongly em-
phasize the drastic difference be-
tween a legitimate transferral to
another college and the intensely
serious situation of indicating up-
on a convicted student’s tran-
script that he is leaving due to
an Honor Violation.

In most cases of the past four
years, public hearings have de-

‘termined that the accusations

have not been of a nature serious
enough to merit a permanent
mark upon the record of the ac-
cused student; but in each case,
as we well know, the Executive
Committee has ruled that every
given offense was serious enough
to ask the accused student to
make a legitimate transferral to
(Continued on Page 3)

 

 

 

tN

 
 

 

 

 

eee ee

Thursday, May 2, 1974

 

[E

  

 

(Continued from Page 2)
another college.

In conclusion, I would like to
state that I have no axe to grind
against anyone, and of course, I
accept all decisions involving
Honor Violations as final and
valid. Personally, I would con-
sider a one year dismissal to be
too lenient a sentence for an
Honor Violation, and I oppose
any Honor System changes other
than the one proposed in this
letter.

Respectfully,
An Ex-Juror

Tenure at W&L
Sir:

Let me reflect on the nature
of tenure for a short space.

What does it do for the stu-
dents at W&L?

Tenure guarantees that talent-
ed faculty remain at the univer-
sity to pass on their knowledge
to the students.

Those more knowledgable of
the subtleties of tenure can en-
lighten us on the further advant-
ages of tenure to the students.

What does tenure do against
the interest of the students?

In psychology, I took four
courses, never got a note out of
class lectures and was tested on
the footnotes out of the text. They
almost had me convinced that I
was actually stupid.

In journalism, I listened to pro-
fessors reading verbatim from
note cards obviously made many
vear's earlier. Raise your hand?
Not in there. They don’t answer
vou.

In sociology, I didn’t have to
take notes in one class because
the teacher used the same notes
in a course that I had taken previ-
ously.

Now I see one of my most re-
spected teachers, one I learned
a lot from because of active
participation on his part, elimi-
nated on the judgment of tenured
faculty and administration mem-
bers.

Is this right that the university
is for the faculty and not for
the students?

Bloomfield College in New Jer-
sey thinks that their university is
for the students. They do not
retard educational progress and
innovation. They are presently
raising massive funds to support
a court battle AGAINST tenure.

Think about it.

Please do not publish my name
as the position of some _ non-
tenured faculty may be jeopar-
dized.

(Name withheld by request)

Do’s, don’t’s for SAB

Sir:

There are two lessons next
year’s Student Activities Board
ean learn from a review of the
work this year’s SAB has done.
One is a do, the other a don’t.

First, I hope the future mem-
bers of the SAB were around for
Fancy Dress Weekend and the

past weekend. Fancy Dress was
definitely the best social event
I’ve ever attended at Washington
and Lee, outside the recent W&L-
U.Va. lacrosse game. Next year
I'll be looking forward to another
big ball.

There was only one blemish, as
I recall, on the entire Fancy Dress
affair this year. That was the
lack of warning given the stu-
dents. Next year’s SBA should
make a mental note not to spring
another surprise on us.

The recent Spring Weekend
also suffered from lack of pub-
licity. Many of us didn’t know
anything had been planned for
last weekend till we picked up
Thursday’s Phi. Even then a will-
ing but unwary participater could
have easily missed Daddy Rab-
bit’s concert Friday afternoon—
the best event of the two days.
The information given to the Phi
did not mention Daddy Rabbit’s
concert and failed to give the
time of the dance Saturday night.

Next year the SBA should give
us a calendar of social events at
the beginning of the year, or at
the beginning of each semester,
and then remind us forgetful
ones well ahead of time through
the use of the Phi and posters.

So, next year let’s have another
Fancy Dress Ball in the style
rejurvenated by this year’s SBA;
let’s have any other events the
new SBA can think of; and let’s
have some advance knowledge of
what’s in store for us.

Looking forward to next year,
Robert Cook, ’75

THE RING-TUM PHI

Page 3

 

   

Ask Traveller

 

Q—Has the spring-term dig around Liberty Hall unearthed anything
exciting than Rupert Latture’s matching ODK cuff-links?

A—Well, frankly no. In the most innocuous archeological undertak-
ing since King Tut’s tomb was sprayed for bagworms in 1924,
Professor John McDaniel and his class of student silt-shovelers
have transformed the Liberty Hall area into another Barger
open-pit mine. Their hopeful goal is to uncover relics from the
past, (preferably before 1969), and determine from a scholarly
study of these relics whether or not Liberty Hall Academy was
non-sectarian and, if so, who said the blessing at lunch.

“You never know what'll turn up next,” says Prof. McDaniel,
after last week’s preliminary digging, “but so far it’s usually a
Schlitz.” McDaniel, an alumnus of W&L who once attempted to
dig to China and collect social security at the same time, reports
three distinct layers at the dig site, each covering approximately
50 years of time. The first layer seems to contain beer-cans and
dirt, the second also beer-cans and dirt, and the third layer,
dating back to 1790, mostly just beer-cans. Nevertheless, Prof.
McDaniel seemed pleased with the excavation’s rseults so far and
expressed hope for more colorful finds, such as “a coin, a fork,
and old jock, or ideally, $100,000 in ready cash so that I can
quit this stupid digging and start living in style.”

The current archeological project may serve to verify several
old legends concerning the Liberty Hall ruins and to explain fully
how the Hall managed to catch fire and burn down in a blinding
rainstorm. Last weeks’ unearthing of a Smokey Burgess baseball
card under three feet of ground lends credence to the idea that
Liberty Hall wasn’t an educational academy at all but, rather,
a farm club of the Pittsburg Pirates. “Why the team failed we
don’t know yet,” explains McDaniel, “but by the number of
called third strikes we’ve discovered, it’s pretty obvious they

weren’t pennant contenders.”

Pains are being taken to authenticate every item unearthed
to avoid future embarrassment, as happened with the infamous
Piltdown man in England, who was later arrested for impersonat-
ing Prince Albert’s stepbrother—Freddie. “Of course, Liberty
Hall is no Stonehenge, but for three credits, the druids would

have cost extra.”

Outside-In

The emergence
of Clive Stevens

THE EMERGENCE OF
CLIVE STEVENS

Atmospheres
Clive Stevens & friends
Capitol ST 11263

Capitol is not a jazz-oriented
label, especially when it comes
to American musicians. The last
good jazz they picked up was
“IF” an English group, in late
1969. Clive Stevens, also from
England, is their best find so
far for the 1970's, and whoever
comes along to outdo him will
have a lot of hard work ahead.

His sound is an often comfort-
able high-powered blend of tenor
or soprano sax, electric piano,
electric guitar, and plenty of
rhythm, It somewhat resembles a
cross-breeding for Weather Re-
port and the Winter Consort;
Stevens’ composing is suitably
loose for a full-band sound.

He wisely recorded the album
in New York, where he had the
world’s best choice of excellent
musicians for his sessions. Billy
Cobham and Rick Laird, form-
erly (?) of the Mahavishnu
Orchestra, provide the framework
on drums and bass with their
usual wizardries, contributing an

enlightened kind of intellectual
funkiness. Ralph Towner, of
Oregon, puts in his chops on the
keyboard instead of guitar this
time. Combining influences of
Corea and Zawinul with his own
multiplicity of styles, Towner
again proves his ability to lead
and support a band equally well.
John Abercrombie, whose guitar
has been an essential element in
the music of Gato Barbieri and
Dreams, lets it fly again, Sticking
mostly to the higher registers,
“Crumbles” comes off like John
McLaughlin might if he were
ever relaxed when he played. His
chordings are much more smooth-
ed out than Mahavishnu, and tend
to elevate the music without push-
ing it through your skull.

Particularly nice are “Astral
Dreams” and “All Day Next
Week.” Atmospheres, even on the
merit of those two songs alone, is
the best instrumental album so
far for 1974 in the field of
electrified music. If Stevens can
assemble as good a full-time band
as he got together for these ses-
sions, he’ll go a long way. Even
if he should continue doing ses-
sion-band albums, as Gato Bar-
bieri did for several years, they’l!l
be well worth repeated listenings.

With this debut album, Stevens
has put himself in a class with

the best. And Atmospheres makes
me think he’s got what it takes
to stay there.

Latin fire and
progressive schmaltz

LATIN FIRE &
PROGRESSIVE SCHMALTZ

In Concert

Airto & Deodato

CTI 6041

The title of this album is some-
what misleading, for it has noth-
ing to do with the teevee show of
the same name, and Airto and
Deodato are not playing together;
they merely happened to be shar-
ing the billing at New York’s
Felt Forum the night this album
was taped. Airto and his band
“Fingers” come across well, as
good Latino bands tend to do
for live music. His drumming, the
best to be heard these days, pro-
vides guidepoints for the other
players, who let rock influences
color their Brazilian origins.
From the sound of their cuts on
this album, “Fingers” seem to
have the ability to become a very
high-energy environment in a con-
cert situation, rather like the
Grateful Dead could in their
prime. (Anthem of the Sun.)

(Continued on page 8)
Page 4

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

Superstar Al F

Compiled from various
eyewitness accounts

Al Black came back.

There were warnings of course.
Clues here and there around cam-
pus asking the inevitable: who is
A] Black? But few thought that
the man himself would return to
his alma mater for a return en-
gagement of Al Black Day.

Al, merely an anonymous non-
entity to this year’s freshmen be-
fore his appearance here Tuesday,
brought back with him the
“charisma,” for lack of a better
word, to win over the hearts and
voices of the Washington and Lee
student body once again.

For a historical overview, the
Phi dug deeply into its archives
Tuesday night in an effort to
explain the Al Blackism phe-
nomenon which infects’ the
campus once a year—the first
day of May, concurrent with the
Soviet May Day celebrations. But
little explanation could be found.

Al] Black, not unlike an un-
wanted pregnancy, just “happen-
ed.” And he happened so infam-
ously last year, a day was set
aside in his honor for this year.
That day was well-received.

With a few minor exceptions,
this year’s celebrations followed
those of last year in form and
manner. Eyewitness reports re-
construct the following tale:

The beer began flowing in the
freshman quad late Monday
night. Soon after, Al made his
appearance. Scattered reports
filtered in prior to his appear-
ance, telling disbelievers that, yes,
Al was truly back. Reports indi-
cate Al’s appearance was too
much for some, causing swoon-
ing and fainting even among the
stout-hearted of W&L gentlemen.
Some thought he was a vision
conjured up by earlier rumors
and too much brew. But it was
Al.

Hell broke loose. The freshmen,
before this not quite sure what
they should be doing to celebrate
Flounder’s Day, were carried up
by the spirit of the occasion as
Al entered the quad. And last
year’s ritual was repeated Tues-
day night.

A quick speech. Then the cheer-
ing squadron belched out of the
quad toward the thriving busi-
ness district of the Big Lex. A
rally was held at the Post Office;
then, cheers of “On to VMI” sent
the forces, now some 300 or more
strong, spilling toward the mili-
tary institute.

Once there, the ardent support-
ers of W&L’s most celebrated non-
entity found police waiting as
they plotted to storm the gates.
The VeeMees, aroused from their
barrack bunks by the ever-louder
chants of “Al Black” as the crowd
approached, joined in the celebra-
tion, but the W&L contingent
could not penetrate the gates of
VMI.

One more attempt to enter the
gates was made, using such di-
versionary tactics as the dumping
of a garbage can full of water on
one of the policemen (this, by a
VeeMee), but the attack failed.

The crowd reversed field and
rolled back toward the Washing-
ton and Lee campus. Several
times along the way the crowd
stopped to hear its hero speak.
The throng even carried A] into
a Tucker Hall lecture room for a
few words of worldly wisdom.

Then on down the Colonnade
Wes»

President Huntley’s house. In
much the same manner as last
year, the power-mad, or just mad,
crowd made its way to the porch
of the house where General Lee
lived during his presidency of
then—Washington College. The
students stomped, screamed,
chanted for presidential acknow)-

Washingion and Lee University

Bookstore

He who taught me to read

made a slave of me.

SSOSOCSSSHSSSSESHOSSS “SSSESCHESESEECSSSEHEESESECCHSESEE

—~Muhammad

      

 

Thursday, May 2, 1974

x

edgement of their leader. That
acknowledgement came.

President Huntley emerged
from his house, disdaining his
traditional suit-and-tie combina-
tion for a costume more fitting
to the occasion. No, he was not
streaking.

He spoke kindly of Al, welcom-
ing the celebrated alumnus back
for a visit to the campus. The
students demanded more. “Can
you cance] class,” they asked?

“Of course,” Huntley reportedly
answered. And he canceled it...
for Al Black anyway.

“Sem.”

ack returns!

As quickly as they had piled
onto President Huntley’s porch,
they spilled off of it at the men-
tion of that stellar school of
higher education, Southern Semi-
nary Junior College for girls. The
raid was on.

Nobody is certain how many
made the journey to Sem Tues-
day night (actually early Wednes-
day morning) — 200, 300 — who
knows?

Success, Wednesday morning as
last year, depended on how one
defines success. The raid was
made, and success was in the eye

(Continued on page 8)

MacDonald named

J-school chairman

Ronald H. MacDonald, associate
journalism professor at Washing-
ton and Lee University since 1969,
has been named head of the De-
partment of Journalism and Com-
munications and director of the
Robert E. Lee Memorial Journ-
alism Foundation.

MacDonald’s promotion is effec-
tive June 1. He succeeds Paxton
Davis, department head _ since
1968. Davis will return to full-
time teaching.

MacDonald, 41, joined W&L’s
broadcast journalism faculty after
13 years with WDBJ-TV in Roa-
noke. At the time he left that
station he was news director, and
earlier had been assignment edi-
tor. A native of Barre, Vt., he
was graduated from Boston Uni-
versity. His first jobs in broad-
cast news were with WDEV,
Waterbury, Vt. WSKI, Mont-
pelier, Vt., and WORL, Boston.

Since beginning to teach at

Paul’s Bike Shop

11 N. New St., Staunton
Phone 886-1310
PAUL Now Accepting All
BIKE REPAIRS at

Sears’ Lexington Store

Pick-Up Every Wednesday
Returned On Wednesday.
Also New 10 Speeds Batavus
Bikes For Sale.

ee

Wendell’s
Barber Shop

OPEN 9-6
9 South Jefferson

Closed Wednesday

 

V&L, MacDonald has remained
active in The Society of Profes-
sional Journalists, Sigma Delta
Chi, the Radio-Television News
Directors Association and the Vir-
ginia Associated Press Broadcast-
ers Association (VAPB). He is
the author of the VAPB’s stand-
ard pronunciation guide.

He is manager of WLUR-FM,
the campus radio station, and has
instituted a closed-circuit tele-
vision station at Washington and
Lee which will soon begin broad-
casting on Lexington’s cable tele-
vision system. He also teaches
courses in TV production, media
and the government, broadcast
operations, and broadcast news
techniques.

Davis, 48, had indicated more
than a year ago his intention to
leave administrative duties and
resume full-time teaching. He
has taught at W&L since 1953
and serves as book review editor
for the Roanoke Times. He is
also the author of four novels,
with three more now in progress.
Davis worked for the Richmond
Times-Dispatch and the Winston-
Salem Journal and Twin City
Sentinel before joining the W&L
faculty.

 

Hamric and Sheridan
JEWELERS
Watch and Jewelry Repair
Hand Engraving & Class Rings
463-2022

 

 

 

East Lexington
Grocery

Beer — Ice — Gas

Party Supplies — Snacks
ABC No. 2078—8 a.m.-10 p.m.
SHOP FOR SUNDAY
We Sell & Deliver Kegs
Open 7 days a week
EVENING DINNER

 

 

 

SIE IS aes rote se

 
Thursday, May 2, 1974

 

Attorney General Andrew Miller of Virginia addressed a law audi-
ence Monday night in the moot courtroom of Tucker Hall.
—Photo by Robinson

Folk singers to appear Sunday

The Entertainment Committee
of the Student Activities Board
will present “Matthew and Peter”
in concert, Sunday night in old
UDoremus Gymnasium. The con-
cert will begin at 8:00 p.m. and
no admission will be charged to
students.

New York

Originating from

City, the group has toured with
Jonathan Edwards, John Sebas-
tian, and Carly Simon. Variety
magazine has called them, “per-
haps the most musical and taste-
ful act to emerge from Green-
wich Village in recent years.”
“Matthew and Peter” have both
a twelve string guitarist and a
flutist.

A letter from Coach Emmer

To the Student Body:

The 1974 W&L lacrosse team
would like to thank our student
and faculty fans for their tre-
mendous support these past two
weeks against Virginia and Tow-
son State. Your enthusiasm as we
took the field at Charlottesville
was a thril] to all of us, and your
vocal support when we were be-
hind Towson late in the game
definitely helped us come hack to
win,

Glee club presents

The first “pop concert” in what
is hoped will be a series of such
events will be presented tonight
at 8 p.m. in Fairfax Lounge of
the University Center by the
W&L Glee Club.

Since this is not really a ‘“con-

“yt” in the traditional sense,
students will be invited to stop
in, have a free coke, and listen at
their leisure. Informality will be

The 1974 season could very well
be the greatest in W&L lacrosse
history. The next few regular sea-
son games will be very challeng-
ing for us and we hope you con-
tinue to come out and let us
know vou're behind us. It could
make the difference.

Thank you again.

Sincerely,
Jack Emmer
Chuck O’Conne!}]
John McDaniel
The W&L lacrosse coaches

pop concert tonight

the rule of the evening—for the
glee club as well as the audience.
The club, under the direction
of first-year instructor Gordon
Spice, just returned from a spring
concert tour of Puerto Rico. The
pieces performed tonight will in-
clude only the lighter numbers
from the tour repertoire—tunes
as diverse as “Shenandoah,” “Zip-
pidy-Doo-Dah,” and “Windy.”

*
*
¢
~
s
e
. 115 Main St.
es

6

FOR YOUR EXTRA PIECES OF FURNITURE

Varner & Pole

— Lexington, Va.

 

By BILL FLESHER
The biggest assist Washington
and Lee got in Saturday’s 19-17

THE RING-TUM PHI Page 5
ginia moved back to fourth fol-

wing their 13-9 win over Navy.

Cornel] dropped one notch to

with Towson fifth. Marvland again holds down

overtime thriller
State won’t be found in the offic-
ial scorebook.

It came from three fans who,
when the Generals fell behind
late in regulation play, left the
bleachers at Wilson Field and be-
came the first cheerleaders W&L
has had in several years.

Though a bit unorthodox in
their ways or arousing the fans,
the three, freshmen Woody
Wooddell and Bill Beauchamp
and sophomore Rick Bates, pro-
vided the spark which brought
the crowd to its feet for the en-
tire final period and the two over-
time stanzas.

Wooddell said after the game
that the trio launched into action
because “things were too quiet
in the stands.

“It reminded me of high
school,” Wooddell said. “We got
behind, and it seemed as if every-
body was just going to give up.
[ knew the players were still
fighting to win, so why shouldn’t
the fans be doing the same thing.”

W&L head coach Jack Emmer
called the fans a key to the
Generals’ fourth quarter rally.

“Our fans really got behind us
when we were behind,” Emmer
said.

“They’ve never helped us out
this much in the two years that
I’ve been here,” he added.

The players also appreciated
the support of the fans as well
as efforts of the cheerleading
trio.

One player remarked, “I’ve
seen much better looking cheer-
leaders but I’ve never seen any-

one get fans going like those
three did.”
* % %

The Generals held on to third
place in this week’s USILA Uni-
versity Division rankings. The
only change occured when Vir-

the top spot, with Johns Hopkins
second.

Among the big games in la-
crosse this week are clashes pitt-
ing Towson State against Virginia
at Charlottesville; Maryland
against Army at West Point;
Johns Hopkins at Navy; and, of
course, W&L playing host to
Washington College.

ue * ue

senior midfielder Skip Lichtfuss
received the Cannon Award,
given to the outstanding player
in each game, for his play in the
Towson State game. Lichtfuss be-

this year, joining Ken Miller
(Morgan State and Denison) and
Dave Warfield (Navy and Duke).
Lichtfuss also received the award
for his play against North Caro-
lina. Other winners include John
Lalley (Princeton), Ralph
Baugher (Princeton), Skeet Chad-
wick (Virginia), and Ted Bauer
(William and Mary).
Dy % %

Head football coach Bill Me-
Henry will put his returning grid-
ders through spring workouts be-
ginning Monday, May 6. The
spring session will conclude with
the annual alumni game May 18,
McHenry said that anyone in-
terested in playing football in
1974 should see him in Doremus
Gym.

Incidentally next year’s football
schedule is out. A tenth game has
been added to this year’s grid
slate. W&L plays five of its games
at home, including the Homecom-
ing game with Sewanee October
26. Four games will be played on
the road, while the Hampden-
Sydney game again will be play-
ed in Lynchburg under the lights.
New opponents for 1974 include
Millersville State (Pa.), Madison,
and Towson State.

WARM DAYS-COOL NIGHTS

And Miles of Unknown Roads

Discover Summer
On A Bike From

The Lexington Bicycle Shop

NOW IS THE TIME
TO BUY YOUR
Fuji, Batavus, or Mercier 10-speed.

ALSO: parts, repairs, accessories, and trade-ins

THE LEXINGTON BICYLE SHOP

130 S. Main St.

Open: 10-5 Monday-Saturday

 
Page 6

THE RING-TUM PHI

Thursday, May 2, 1974

WAL fights off Towson State

By BILL FLESHER

Washington and Lee’s_ third-
ranked lacrosse Generals ran their
1974 season record to 11-0 this
week, but by no means were the
two wins recorded by W&L easy
ones,

Towson State, the number one
ranked team in the college di-
vision, had the Generals on the
ropes Saturday, but clutch goals
by Ted Bauer and Skip Lichtfuss
in both the final quarter and the
overtime period gave W&L a 19-
17 win over what head coach
Jack Emmer called “the best la-
crosse team we've played ali
year.”

Tuesday W&L started poorly,
and trailed upstart Roanoke Col-
lege 5-3 at halftime. The Generals
managed to get things together in
the second half, however, and
went on to record a 12-7 win over
a fast-improving Maroon team.

Emmer called Saturday’s high-
scoring fiasco “the greatest ex-
hibition of offensive lacrosse I’ve
ever been associated with in one
ball game.”

“You can’t totally blame the de-
fense for all 36 goals,” Emmer
added. “When you're passing and
shooting as well as both teams did
there’s no way that goals won't
be scored.”

Emmer pointed out that goalie
Skeet Chadwick was playing de-
spite being weakened by a virus
that had plagued him for several!
days.

Chadwick still came up with
15 saves, including two key stops
late in regulation play. The co-
captain’s biggest save of the day
came in the first overtime, when
he robbed Bob Griebe of a goal,
then triggered the fast break
which eventually led to Bauer’s
go-ahead tally.

xoals came in bunches Satur-
day. After Joe Doegherty opened
the scoring for the Tigers, Dave
Warfield and Lichtfuss tallied
within twenty seconds of each
other to give W&L a 2-1 lead.

Towson then got three straight
scores from Mitch Lekas, Wayne
Eisenhut, and Tom Nelson to go
on top 4-2.

Dry Cleaning

Linen Service

WE DELIVER

SQcSoceeeseseseeseesseeeeoeseseseseeeasese

Storage & Free Moth Proofing

 

The number-three ranked Generals struggled past Roanoke Tuesday in a home game on Wilson Field,
J

Three more regular season games remain for the unbeaten Generals.

W&L erupted for five in a row
the first and early second quart-
ers to grab a 7-4 lead. Don Car-
roll got his first after a brilliant
full-field clear by defenseman
Tom Keigler at 9:24. Warfield and
Lichtfuss notched their second
goals late in the opening period
to give the Generals a 5-4 edge at
the quarter.

Opening the second quarter,
Bryan Chasney and Ken Miller
got goals six and seven for W&L,
and it looked like the Generals
were about to take control.

However Towson coach Car]
Runk said something to his troops
during a timeout, and it must
have worked. The Tigers ran off
four goals in the next two
minutes to jump back on top
8-7. Three of the scores, by Nel-
son, Tom Moore, and Jim Darc-
angelo, came just 45 second apart.

UNIVERSITY
CLEANERS

Reliable Service In

Shirts Laundered
Clothing Repair

463-3622

The Generals tied it up at 8-5
when Carroll got his second tally.
Griebe and Warfield traded scores
late in the period to send the
teams to the locker room tied at
9-9,

Towson broke the deadlock
early in the third when Moore
got his second score at 2:32. Then
the Generals tallied twice to move
back in front 11-10. Warfield
scored his fourth, Carroll his
third, both the result of fast
breaks led by freshman midfield-
ers Ralph Baugher and Jay
Monahan.

But Towson again rebounded,
this time with a string of three
goals from Tim Maher, Larry
Syratton, and Griebe, and took a
13-11 lead heading to the final
quarter.

In the fourth period, W&L be-
came the beneficiaries of several
Towson penalties as well as the
services of Ted Bauer. The All-
American midfielder opened the
scoring in the final fifteen with
Towson shorthanded to cut the
margin to 13-12. Bauer then as-
sisted on Warfield’s fifth goal,
again with the Tigers a man
down, to tie the game at 13-13.

Just 11 seconds after Carroll’s
goal, Nelson threw in his third
to regain the lead for the Tigers,

—Photo by Robinson

14-18. Griebe then got his third
at 4:48 to put Towson two goals
up.

Carroll cut the margin to one
with his fourth score, the third
Generals’ extra man goal of the
period at 5:22. But Towson then
opened up a three goal bulge,
with Darcangelo and Lekas con:
necting within 19 seconds to give
the Tigers a 17-14 lead.

Then the rally began. Carroll
fired in his fifth and final score
at 7:19 to make it 17-15. At 12:16,
3auer got his second, and the
Generals were within one.

Towson went to a slowdown to
try to protect their lead. Emmer
called his defense to pressure the
ball, forcing the Tigers to handle
it. With :48 left on the clock,
W&L gained control of the ball
in their own end,

Obviously, the Generals had
their work cut out for them, as
they had to clear the ball, set up
a play, and score. Nothing went
wrong.

Keigler, displaying outstanding
stickwork with his long defense-
man’s stick, moved the ball well
upfield, and found Chasney wide
open. Chasney got the ball to
Lichtfuss, and the stage was set.

Guarded by Darcangelo, the

(Continued on page 8)

 

The Alexander-Withrow House

3 WEST WASHINGTON STREET
A restored historic landmark with five period-furnished guest suites.
A different experience in overnight hospitality for those who love
fine things. Students may make reservations for their parents and
tour the house from 10-2 Tuesday through Saturday or write Mrs.

Harriet Thomas.

 

 
 

Thursday, May 2, 1974

Baseball team loses to Ham

By BILL AUSTIN

Score:

W&L 1—Hampden-Sydney 5

In a single contest played a
week ago Wednesday, W&L’s
baseball team dropped its eighth
game in 14 decisions, this time
to a Hampden-Sydney squad it
had earlier defeated.

Further, the Generals did not
gain a berth in the VCAA tourney,
and thus spent the weekend in
idleness while Lynchburg College
romped to the conference title
with a 15-9 pounding of Madison.

While the Hampden-Sydney
game proved a frustrating affair,
the news which followed only
re-enforced glum spirits. Rod
Ferrandino, who struggled in the
5-1 loss to the Tigers, was found
to be ill. The revelation surely
ends the season for the talented

junior moundsman.

In what turned out to be Fer-
vandino’s swan-song, W&L post-
ed a 1-0 lead that held into the
seventh inning. Alas, Ferrandino
contributed directly to his own
downfall, allowing a single, then
hitting two batters with errant
tosses. A pair of wild pitches fol-
lowed, and two H-S runners
steamed homeward. A sacrfice fly
scored a third run. The Tigers
added two more tallies in the
eighth, protecting but their fifth
triumph of the season.

Following the home tilt with
Madison played Tuesday (the re-
sult was not available at press
time), the Generals close out their
season this coming week with a
doubleheader against Bridgewater
on Monday and a rematch with
Lynchburg Baptist on Tuesday.
The Bridgewater encounter marks

WEL places second
in VCAA tennis meet

Washington and Lee’s reign as
VCAA tennis champion ended this
past weekend, when Hampton
Institute took command of the
three-day tournament in impres-
sive fashion.

The Generals managed to ac-
cumulate 70 points in team com-
petition, good for second place,
but far behind Hampton’s 116.
Indeed, the usurping squad took
every singles and doubles title in

Sunday’s final-round action.

For W&L, John Embree, Don
Caffery, Buz Walters, Jim Fisher
and Warren Davis advanced suc-
cessfully through the first two
days of play, but succumbed to
HI’s_ well-scholarshipped repre-
sentatives without winning a
single set. In similar fashion, the
doubles combinations of Embree-
Caffery and Davis-Voelker took
runner-up honors in numbers one
and three seeded matches.

Five Generals honored as outstanding athletes

Five General athletes have been
chosen to appear in the 1974 edi-
tion of “Outstanding College
Athletes of America.” Tapped for
the honor were Basketball-base-

 

ball plaver John Rice, football co-
captains Bill Wallace and Bob
Brand, wrestling captain Doug
Ford and lacrosse captain Skeet
Chadwick.

 

 

 

 

 

fee Tbh ebb ie
é The First National Bank 5
of Lexington ;
* has special checking accounts for students
Debdebbeeetedededet Sood
(7 ‘)

Make this your headquarters for Good Food

and Service
We have meal tickets at savings to you

\ 4)

 

 

 

THE RING-TUM PHI

pden-Sydney

the team’s final
ance of the season.
Lacking the services of Rod
Ferrandino, WE&L’s pitching
corps will be hard pressed to turn
in creditable performances, with
Dan Westbrook the only other
proven starter on the team. Per-

home appear-

Page 7

haps the challenge will provide
Coach Lyles with the opportun-
ity to explore the youthful arms
on his staff. The season to date,
while filled with its share of dis-
appointments, has not dimmed
the promise of upcoming spring
campaigns.

Track records fall,
WEL ts 4th in state

By HARRY JEMBE

At a tough Virginia College
Athletic Association (V.C.A.A.)
track meet last Saturday, hosted
by Bridgewater College, W&L
shattered two state records and
one school mark.

Sprinter Phipher Helms won
the 220 yard dash for the third
straight time setting a state rec-
ord in 22.0 seconds. This qualifies
Phipher for College Nationals this
year,

Tony Perry won the high jump
event with a leap of six feet
three and three-fourths inches,
also. breaking the old mark.
Tony’s jump of 6’ 6” last Tuesday
against Indiana State places him
for the Nationals.

Another spectacular perform-
ance was by freshman Paul
Thomson. Thomson destroyed the
existing mile record held earlier
by Stu Nibley by more than five
seconds. He ran a sub 4 minutes

20 seconds mile race for the first

time.

The 440 relay team emerged
the state champion at the meet.
Larry Banks, John Tucker, John
Newman and again Phipher
Helms came as close as one-tenth
off the school record. They were
timed at 43.3 seconds for the first
place. Their superior baton ex-
changes held off a strong chal-
lenge from the Virginia State
quartet.

Other performances: Steve Sch-
weizerhof—shot put, first; Paul
Hartman—pole vault, 13 feet,
career best only three inches off
the record; Dave Lawson—440
yards, third, 50.9 seconds; Dave
Estes—880 yards, 2.00.07, his best
time this year; John Newman—
100 yards, 9.9 seconds; Jack Berry
—javelin, fourth in the state.

Final team placement: 1. Vir-
ginia o> 2, Madison, 3. Lynch-
surg, 4. Washington and Lee.

 

 

SHOW YOUR SUPPORT

 

only 3.95 each or 2 for 6.95 post paid

It’s the ONLY T-shirt endorsed by
THE INTERNATIONAL STREAKERS ASSOC,
The MASTER ART Co.
Post Office Box 444 — Maumee, Ohio 43537
Size: S—M—L: $3.95 each — $6.95 for 2 — tax incl.

PETER TEP PUREE eee ee a

 

 
Page 8

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

Applications for
Contact ’75 due

On Wednesday, May 15, 1974,
appications for Contact ‘74
chairman or co-chairmen will
he considered.

In order to be considered,
-ix copies of a proposed pro-
sram must be submitted. This
program should contain the
tentative committee, tentative
budget, tentative speakers, and
any new ideas which may ap-
peal to the applicants,

Any questions may be ad-
dressed to Harrison Turnbull
(463-9330) or Chris Harris (463-

5077).

UC petitions, Gilliam
award nominations due

(Continued trom page 1)
assessment to be included with
tuition for the year of 1975-76.
The expectation of rising costs

» to inflation spurred the pro-
posal.

Deadline for nomination for
the Gilliam Award will be no
later than 6 p.m. Monday, May
(. The award is given to a de-
serving student who has con-
tributed in any way to the bet-
terment of the University. The
nominations will be placed in
the EC box which is located in
Ken Lane’s office.

 

APARTMENT SPACE. Need a
roommate for next year. 2-man
apt. Living room, bedroom,
sitchen, bath. $40 per person
ver month, plus phone and
eleecrtic. 10 mo. lease. Corner
Grill Apts. Contact Ken Wood
or Dave Mycoff, 463-9405.

 

Al Black returns

(Continued from page 4)

of the beholder...or raider. By
press time, not enough reliable
reports could be obtained to sub-
stantiate rumors of what hap-
pened; nobody who made the raid
was in a reliable enough state of
mind to accurately report what
happened.

Perhaps the only shortcomings
of Tuesday night’s activities was
the failure to elect a successor
to the legendary Al Black. Re-
ports are tnat competition for the
award was keen this year; ap-
parently a winner could not be
determined in all fairness to the
four main contenders.

Minister to lecture here

(Continued from page 1)
established earlier this year at
Washington and Lee in honor of
the late Philip Fullertown Hower-
ton of Charlotte, N.C. It is de-
signed to sponsor visiting lecture-
ships in W&L’s department, to
support seminars involving stu-
dents and religious leaders, to
examine business and professional
ethics, and to establish and ex-
tend other activities which focus
on the value of religious faith in
modern society.

NOTICES

THE EXORCIST T-SHIRTS
HAVE ARRIVED

They may be picked up in the
Co-op this Thursday, Friday,
and Monday from 2-4 each day.

Only those who signed up
for the t-shirts will receive
them. If you did not sign up
for one, you will not receive
one,

% * %

There will be a varsity soccer
meeting for the 1974 season to-
night at 8 p.m. in the fifth level
classroom of Doremus Gym.

 

 

SPARE TIME BUSINESS

Own your own profitable vending business. $200 to $600
monthly earnings possible in your spare time (day or
eve.). NO SELLING. If selected, you will be servicing
company established locations.

OUR COMPANY IS A SUPPLIER OF
NABISCO SNACK ITEMS.
REQUIREMENTS: $1,000 to $5,000 Cash Investment,
(secured by machines and merchandise)

good character, dependable auto, and 6 to 9 spare hours
weekly. Income starts immediately! We supply product,
machines, locations, expansion financing, buy back
option, and professional guidance. If you are sincerely
interested in applying for this genuine opportunity to-
ward financial success, please call or write (include
phone number) for personal interview in your area to:

MR. ROBERT L. ANDERSON
WORLD INDUSTRIES INC.
Executive Suite 303

1919 East 52nd Street
Indianapolis, Indiana 46205
Telephone (317) 257-5767

 

 

Thursday, May 2, 1974

Generals trip Towson in overtime,
come back to win over Roanoke

(Continued from page 6)
Tigers’ best defensive middie,
Lichtfuss took the ball behind the
goal. He then took off to the left
of Tiger goalie Jeff Jones, and
fired a low shot past Jones on
the run. Bring on the overtime.

Lichtfuss controlled the open-
ing faceoff in the first overtime,
but a Warfield shot hit a Towson
player, and the Tigers came up
with the ball.

Two Towson shots went wide,
but they got the ball back when
Keigler lost the ball out of
bounds. Then came Chadwick’s
robbery of Griebe, followed by the
Generals’ fast break.

Two perfect passes sent War-
field toward a one-on-one con-
frontation with Jones. But Tow-
son’s Dan Miller tripped Warfield
from behind, so W&L was re-
warded with an extra man for
a minute.

It didn’t take long for the Gen-
erals to go ahead. Bauer took a
feed from John Lalley, wound up,
and left Jones looking at a blur.
W&L had their first lead since
midway through the third period
at 18-17.

Lichtfuss added the clincher
with :18 gone in the second extra
period. Taking the faceoff again,

Record review:
Airto & Deodato

(Continued from page 3)

Flora Purim, Airto’s wife and
vocalist, could well become the
1970’s evolution-equivalent of
Grace Slick, because she has the
ability to soar above the sound
of the instruments with the same
sort of mystical banshee-ange!
style. Their music on this album
proves beyond a doubt that Airto
has taken Santana’s former title
as king latino-rocker-jazzer.

Deodato’s cuts are another mat-
ter. Eumir Deodato has always
tread the thin line between easy
listening and jazz, also known as
the line between mechanical and
creative music. His live selections
succeed mainly because of two
sidemen: John Tropea on electric
guitar and Ray Barretto on conga.
Deodato himself would probably
sound better with a small group
in a restaurant-club situation than
he does here. With a flourish in
the distinct CTI style, he’s even
dubbed strings onto the music,
which is highly unusual for a live
recording.

Judging from the skimpy (by
CTI standards) cover and the fact
that neither artist performs any-
thing he hasn’t recorded before,
the album comes off as more of
a sampler record than anything
else. It succeeds, beautifully.

NOTICES

The University Council will
meet at 4:30 p.m. in the Execu-
tive Committee room of the Uni-
versity Center.

Lichtfuss passed off to Bauer,
who returned the ball the Licht-
fuss, Who had no trouble beating
Jones for his fourth goal of the
game. There the scoring ended,
and soon after, ended one of the
best lacrosse games ever played
on Wilson Field.

Tuesday was different. Roanoke
came up Route 81 thinking up-
set, and came close to realizing
their dreams,

The Generals played sloppy la-
crosse in the first half, allowing
the Maroons to fire from point-
blank range at Malcolm Hastings,
who replaced a resting Chadwick
as the W&L goalie. Three goals
in the last six minutes of the
half gave the underdogs a 5-3
lead at intermission.

Then Wé&L played as_ they
should, taking control from the
outset of the second half. The
Generals outscored Roanoke 9-2
in the final 30 minutes, including
another of those runs of five
goals in a row, and downed the
Maroons 12-7,

Three Generals—Lalley, Watr-
field, and Carroll—recorded the
three-goal hat trick, while Bauer
chipped in with one goal and four
assists.

Up and coming are home games
Saturday with a tough Washing-
ton College ten (2 p.m.) and
Wednesday with Franklin and
Marshall (3 p.m.).

 

R/C Theatres
Regal Cinema Fare
in Lexington

State Theatre

12-14 W. Nelson St. 463-3424

LAST DAY
Best Picture of the Year

The Sting

STARTS FRIDAY

Serpico

Lyric Cinema

135 S. Main St. 463-3543

THRU SATURDAY

Butch Cassidy
and the
Sundance Kid

SUN.-MON-TUES,

Cardoz

 

 

 
The Ring-tum Phi

Washington and Lee University’s Weekly Newspaper

 

Vol. LXXIII

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA, MAY 9, 1974

 

The Washington and
Alumni Association will hold
its annual banquet in honor of
the graduating seniors at 7
p.m., Wednesday, May 15, at
Evans Dining Hall. A recep-
tion at the Alumni House will
precede the banquet commenc-
ing at 5:30 p.m. All Academic
and Law Seniors, as well as
those who will graduate in the
fall and winter of 1974 or in
January 1975, are invited to
attend.

Emphasis is made on the
fact that all Academic and Law

ate in the fall or

 

Lee

seniors who expect to gradu-
winter of

1974 or in January 1975 are
cordially invited, It is request-
ed that they notify the Alumni
Office if they will attend the
banquet no later than May 13.

Conventional dress is in
order for the occasion.

A high point of the program
Will be the presentation of the
Frank J. Gilliam Award and
the Ring-tum Phi awards.

Washburn, Executive Secre-
tary of the Alumni Asssocia-
tion, stated that the banquet
is given by the Alumni As-
sociation to honor the seniors
and to welcome them into the
membership.

 

 

Number 26

Amendment votes,
UC elections set

By ROBERT PIEDRAHITA

Elections for UC positions will
be held Monday, May 13.

Candidates for the sophomore
class (next year) are: Ken Payne,
David Davis, Walt Kansteiner,
Clark Thompson, Terry Atwood,
Steve Norris, Steve Giblin, and
Bob Currie. For junior positions:
Ted Reeds, Ken Ruscio, Bill Gar-

rison, and Tom Micheler. For
senior positions: Jim Overton,
Doug Ford, Channing Martin,

Faculty defeats adding students
to administrative committees

The faculty Monday voted down
a proposal which would have in-
creased student representation on
the Committee on Courses and
Degrees and the Executive Com-
mittee of the Faculty.

Two students would have been
appointed to each committee had
the proposal been approved.

Currently, one student serves
on each of the committees — the
chairman of the Student Curri-
culum Committee serves on the
Courses and Degrees Committee,
and a member of the student EC
serves on the faculty EC.

The Faculty EC, in making the
recommendation, set a limit of

two students on each committee
because “the faculty should retain
a clear voting majority” in mat-
ters handled by the two commit-
tees. The move to add another
student to each committee was an
attempt, said the Faculty EC, “to
maintain a clear and open chan-
nel of communication between
the student body and these two
committees.”

The motion was part of a Fac-
ulty EC move to promote better
communication between the stu-
dents and faculty. The EC is also
trying to encourage student in-
put at departmental levels.

Despite the defeat of the pro-

Alumni reunions scheduled

More than 250 alumni of Wash-
ington and Lee University and
their families will return to the
campus this weekend for class
reunions,

The reunions will be highlight-
ed by the 26th annual John Ran-
dolph Tucker lecture in law, the
annual meeting of the W&L
Alumni Association, class ban-
quets and other social activities,
and the Wé&L lacrosse game
against Cortland State.

William H. Hiller of Chicago,
outgoing president of the alumni
association, will preside at the
annual meeting. A special feature
will be presentation of the first
annual Distinguished Alumnus
Awards, conferred upon nomina-
tion by W&L alumni themselves.
Elections for new officers wil!
also take place at the meeting.

George D. Gibson, a partner in
the Richmond law firm of Hun-
ton, Williams, Gay & Gibson, wi'l
deliver the Tucker Lecture at

noon Saturday in Lee Chapel.
Members of the public are in-
vited to attend the lecture as
guests of W&L’s School of Law.

Another high point of the week-
end will be Washington and Lee’s
final lacrosse game of the regular
season, in which the second-rank-
ed Generals take on Cortland
State in a match that will be of
special interest because Cortland
was coached until two years ago
by W&L’s Coach of the Year, Jack
Emmer. The Generals will be
fighting to hold onto their sec-
ond position in anticipation of na-
tional playoffs, which will be
begin the next weekend.

Class banquets and a reunion
party will close out the weekend's
formal activities.

Returning for their reunions
will be members of the classes of
1924 (for their 50th), 1934, 1949,
1959 and 1964—together with
alumni who graduated more than
half a century ago, the “Old
Guard.”

posal, however, some action
was taken in the faculty meet-
ing Monday in an effort to open
channels of communications be-
tween students and faculty.

A motion was approved which
would allow the presiding officer
at a faculty meeting to release
the results of the deliberations of
that meeting, together with what-
ever comments and_interpreta-
tions the presiding officer may
wish to add.

Such releases would be distrib-
uted to the Ring-tum Phi, WLUR,
the president of the student body,
and the university’s public in-
formation director within 24
hours of the faculty meeting.

Faculty meetings are closed to
students.

Mitch Seleznick, Duane Fluharty,
and John Ratzel. There will be
three seniors reps., two junior
reps., and two sophomore reps.
on the UC.

Elections for president of the
Independent Union will not be
held at the same date as are the
UC elections. Instead, there will
be an attempt to place this elec.
tion during the Fall term.

A meeting is to be held in Lee
Chapel, May 14 at 8 pm. to
discuss the Honor Code. Ben
Bailey and Doug Schwatz are to
preside over the meeting. Stu-
dents and faculty are invited to
come and air their views.

A student referendum is to be
held May 13. The proposals to be
decided or voted upon are: (1)
one more EC representative from
the Freshman class; (2) student
plebiscite to decide on tax poli-
cies; (3) amendment to the Con-
stitution to be proposed by hav:
ing a petition with 200 signatures
An amendment would have to be
passed by two third of half or
over, of those who vote; (4) all
students who pay student activity
tax will be considered members
of the student body.

The latter amendment applies
to the exchange students, since
they will have to pay the same
amount of tax as do W&L stu-
dents. This would enable them
to be entitled to the same privi-
leges W&L students possess.

For the vear of ’75-’76, students
will pay $5 in order to finance
the Steering Committee for the
Mock Convention.

Standing committee applications due

The deadline for applications
to standing committees of the
Executive Committee has been
extended to Friday at 6 p.m.
Applications are to be turned into
the EC box in the University
Center.

Applications will be accepted
for Student Activities Board chair-
man and the subcommittees of
the SAB, including entertainment-
recreation, student center, culture,
film, secretary and treasurer.

Applications will also be ac-
cepted for committees on mock
convention, curriculum, recruit-
ing, and cold check, and for the
voting regulations board.

Interviews will be held May
13-15.

All applicants are to include
their phone numbers on the appli-
cations, Applicants for SAB chair-
man must present a complete pro-
gram for 1974-75.

Student arrested second time for streaking

A Washington and Lee student
has been arrested for streaking

. again.

John Buckley Keefe, 20, a
sophomore from Milford, Conn.,
was arrested by Lexington police
Saturday morning at 2 a.m. and
charged with indecent exposure.

Keefe will appear in Lexington
General District Court at a later
date.

Keefe pleaded no contest to a
charge of indecent exposure last
month for streaking in Lexington
That streak was made in March.
Page 2 THE RING-TUM PHI

 

— ame «

Defending the need for Ariel

Frankly, we are stymied.

Rumblings are that the Executive Committee of the student
body wants to cut off funds for Ariel, the student literary
magazine. The EC calls the publication a waste of student
funds; it says the students’ moneys could be better spent.

That the Ariel is limited in its appeal is a point we cannot
contest. But then, we are beginning to think the EC is also
quite limited in its appeal to the student body. Whatever the
case, however, the Ariel is simply an outlet for student cre-
ativity.

The problem the EC should be considering is not that
funds for the Ariel should be cut off because the magazine
appeals to the interests of a select few at W&L; rather, the
Ariel’s ability to serve the entire student body is limited be-
cause of lack of funds. The EC is simply looking at the situa-
tion the wrong way.

Higher production costs forced the Ariel this year to forego
an issue devoted to photography. Such an issue printed last
year was well-received by the W&L community. But because
the Ariel could not get more funds this year, such an issue of
wide student appeal had to be omitted from the plans of the
magazine. Ariel’s appeal to the students seems to vary pro-
portionately to the financial ability of that publication to even
attempt projects more far-reaching than just prose and poetry
publications.

Ariel’s appeal is limited simply because it doesn’t have the
funds to widen its appeal to students.

And the EC wants to solve the problem by abolishing Ariel.

Ariel’s budget this year—$1600.

The EC thinks $1600 is too much to spend on creativity,
on the development of a fine arts outlet even, at W&L.

Yet, this same EC wants the Board of Trustees to shell
out #4-, $5-, or even $6-million to build a fine arts center for
those students unable to find any kind of outlet for their
creativity within the cramped confines of W&L’s current fine
arts facilities.

Again, we are stymied.

How can the Board of Trustees even begin to look at an
EC proposal for a multi-million dollar fine arts center with any
seriousness if the EC wants to cut what little it now spends—
$1600—on an outlet for creativity at this university now? With
more money, Ariel is the only campus organization that could
conceivably bring together under one organization a multitude
of outlets for student work—not just prose and poetry, but
plays, films, photography, even art shows as well.

If Ariel were abolished by the EC, because $1600 was too
much to spend on fine arts, we think the Board of Trustees
would just laugh in the EC’s collective face if it should have
the gall to ask for millions of dollars for a fine arts center.

And well the Board should.

—P.J.L.

Austerity in the EC budget

Speaking of austerity in the EC budget:

If the EC really wants to cut down expenses, why not get
rid of that fancy dinner it holds in honor of itself every year.
That would save a few precious dollars.

And cancel that order for letter openers for each member
of the EC this year. Another few bucks saved.

Perhaps there is jusification for these expenses. The point
is, however, that we find it a hell of a lot easier to justify the
Ariel’s costs than the costs of these little presents the persons

in the government are presenting themselves this year. Ariel
may only serve a limited number of students, but it still serves
a lot more students than does a banquet given by the EC in
honor of itself.

oP 34.

Thursday, May 9, 1974

What local high school
students think of W&L

Sir:

In the winter of 1973-74, under
the supervision of our teachers
Bob Carrere and David Turk, we,
two seniors at Lexington High
School, conducted a survey of
area high school students. The
survey measured attitudes of Lex-
ington High School and Parry
McCluer High School students
towards students of Washington
and Lee and Virginia Military
Institute as compared with their
attitudes of the nation as a whole.
Three percent of the schools’ stu-
dent bodies were surveyed with
a questionnaire administered dur-
ing an interview.

The resulting stereotypes form-
ulated from the data were quite
the opposite of our anticipations.
On the whole LHS students saw
Wé&L students to be about equal
to the nation as a whole in the
categories of “intelligence,”
“moral,” “wealthy,” “conserva-
tive,” and “responsible.” They al-
so perceived VMI student equal

 

to the nation on all but two; VMI
students were characterized as
more intelligent and responsible
than the nation as a whole.

PMHS regarded W&L students
to be equal to the nation as a
whole on all categories but one.
They perceived W&L_ students
less conservative than the nation
as a Whole. VMI students were
seen as more conservative and
more responsible and about equal
in all the other categories.

We find these results interest-
ing and think your student body
might be interested in them. We
recognize the strong possibility
that these student opinions, espec-
ially those of 8th-10th graders,
are greatly influenced by par-
ental biases and opinions. Rather
boldly, we’re suggesting that the
survey reflects in some measure
“town-gown” relationships _ be-
tween W&L and VMI students
and the citizens of the surround-
ing area.

Sincerely,
Teresa Filson and
Kathy Mohler

Automatic rule committee to meet

The Committee on the Auto-
matic Rule will meet at 10:30 a.m.
on Tuesday, June 4, 1974. At that
time the Committee will consider
the following groups of students,
who have fallen under the Auto-
matic Rule, for possible immedi-
ate reinstatement:

J. those students who failed to
meet the condition of Aca-
demic Probation required of
them at the end of the cur-
rent Spring Term.

2. those students completing a
full academic year who fail-
ed to meet the cumulative
average of their class.

The Committee will consider
for immediate reinstatement all
students who fall under the Auto
matic Rule, If any student wishes
to inform the Committee of ex-
tenuating circumstances present
in his case, he may write a letter
to the Committee and deliver it
to the Office of the Dean of the

College before June 4. Immedi-
ade reinstatement is the except-
ion rather than the rule. A stu-
dent who falls under the Auto-
matic Rule severs his connection
with the University; if the Com-
mittee does not grant him im-
mediate reinstatement, he may
apply for reinstatement after a
minimum of one year.

As soon as possible after the
Committee’s meeting, each stu-
dent falling under the Automatic
Rule will receive a letter explain-
ing his status; his parents will
receive a copy of that letter.

Any student who is not subject
to the Automatic Rule in June
and who fails to achieve the
cumulative average required at
the end of a full year for his class
(see page 76 in Catalogue) will be
on Academic Probation for the
Fal] Term, and he and his parents
wil] receive notification.

THE RING-TUM PHI

The Ring-tum Phi is published on Thursdays during the college year.
It is printed by the Journalism Laboratory Press, Washington and Lee
University. The mailing address is Box 899, Lexington, Virginia 24450.
Entered as second class matter September 29, 1946, at the Post Office,
Lexington, Virginia 24450, under the act of March 3, 1879. Subscription
rates: $6.00 for the school year, $3.00 for the semester.

PAUL J. LANCASTER ANDREW J. A. CHRISS

Editor-in-chief Business Manager
NN ene ee eee Jess Reeves
Business Manager-elect .........:csscereerercveerenvsecene David Lee

Sports Editor ... Bill Austin
Photography Editor . . Bill Robinson
ee Rome Scott
Artwork

Contributors

_ Robert Cook, W. Patrick Hinely, Bill Flesher,
Paul Morella, Tom Rittenburg, David Finnell, John Ellis

 

 
 

Thursday, May 9, 1974

Mr. Natural comes to L

By W. PATRICK HINELY
Allen Ginsberg
May 1, Lee Chapel

The Glasgow Endowment Com-
mittee should be highly commenda-
ed for bringing Allen Ginsberg
to the W&L campus. He is their
first guest in recent years whose
comprehending audience was not
limited to those who are initi-
ates of the esoteric order of
“literati,” a group of usually in-
telligent people who are unfor-
tunately overimpressed with their
own vocabulary and writings.

A self-proclaimed poet of the
people, Ginsberg was very down-
to-earth in his approach. In fact,
he was so down-to-earth that his
somewhat free use of expletives,
four-letter wards, et cetera, was
alarming to some members of the
audience, But that’s all relative;
after all, I talked to several
people who were there who said
they were more alarmed by some
of the people in the audience than
by the language Ginsberg was
using.

Ginsberg’s greatest influences
have come from some Eastern
traditions which we Westerners
usually label as religion. Chief
among these are Hinduism and
3uddhism. Ginsberg draws his
poetic inspirations, indeed most
of his motivation for living, from
an old Eastern practice, the art
of meditation.

There are as many types of
meditation as there are medita-
tors, but most have in common
the characteristic of being con-
stead of doing. Thought, or think-
cerned with letting a human
mind be occupied by being in-
ing, is believed by some authori-
ties to be original sin of Adam.
Meditation is a process through
which thinking can be channeled
into completely positive, or good,

$5 of $30

for student

The Executive Committee Mon-
day recommended to next year’s
EC that $5 per student be de-
ducted from the student tax and
set aside each year as a donation
fund,

Students then could donate
their $5 to some facet of student
life which they feel needs im-
provement. The money, for ex-
ample, could be donated by a
group of students to buy a desk
caculator for school use. Money
could also be donated to argani-
zation on campus,

All proposed projects would
have to be approved by the fac-
ulty or administration. The EC
would have final say in approving
the project.

A student could not split up his
$5 gift.

Money not used in the course
of the year would go to the EC
Reserve Fund.

The $5 donation fund was pro-

directions. Thinking is an inevit-
able process within the mature
human mind; meditation is an at-
tempt at its beneficial control.

Ginsberg’s personal method is
to sit in a traditional Eastern
posture, with spine erect, eyes
open, “top of head supporting
heaven,” and to began by con-
centrating on his breathing. The
usual chronology starts with ob-
serving the breath’s dissolution
into space, followed by linking
the breath to the mind, and
through this link, the third step,
the mingling of the mind with
space. Through this, the individ-
ual is able to relate directly to
the infinity of the Universe.

student tax
projects

posed by Mike Brittin and Hal
Clarke.

The two said the proposal “at-
tempts to strengthen the com-
munity and individual elements
of W&L’s educational philosophy.
The plan challenges each student
to use his perspective, knowledge
and imagination to draw up a
workable proposal for the bet-
terment of the university.”

If the proposal is approved by
the new EC, the $5 per student
would be deducted from next
mean some belt-tightening among
year’s $30 student tax. This would
organizations now receiving
funds from that tax in an effort
to balance the budget.

This year’s budget was operat-
ed on a $17 student tax, but
for the Student Activities Board,
amounting to close to $9 per stu-
dent, came this year from out-
side sources.

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

 

Allen Ginsberg

Using this as a “loosening up”
exercise for his mind, Ginsberg
is able to zero in on the working
of his brain with ease. He per-
ceives individual thoughts as they
come in and pass out of his con-
sciousness. He can also perceive
thoughts. These are the separa-
the gaps, or spaces, between the
tons of verses in his poetry.
ties with improvisational music in

His poetry has many similari-
its method of creation, for both
are based on a principle which an
ancient Eastern master distilled
as “First thought, Best thought.”
Going back and editing or chang-
ing clutters the original thought
and creates ambiguities.

Ginsberg’s subject matter
ranges from nature allegories of
the miracle of worldly existence
to sociopolitical themes. It comes
on anywhere from a_=e sparsely
worded parable to a vehement
plea for an end to militarism.
Most of what he read, or sang,
in Lee Chapel was of a socio-
political bent. This was probably,
at least in part, his reaction to
a large number of VMI cadets
sitting near the stage. He felt
his duty was to tell them some
things the rest of us have al-
ready figured out, even if we
don’t believe it all—yet.

exington

eI

| : ,

—Photo by Hinely

The most open piece he pre-
sented was a poem he wrote last
fall, while he was spending some
time in the Colorado mountains,
meditating ten hours a day. It
is a free-flowing narrative in
which he follows a single breat!
around our planet. Beautifully
cyclical in structure, is is open
to interpretation on many levels.

Overall, Ginsberg’s method of
presentation was somewhat more
avant-garde than any other poet
who has visited our camus in
recent years. The use of music to
accompany the act of reading was
in itself a big change from the
usual dryness of such an event.
He is fully aware that you can
read a poem from a book any:
where at any time, and that a
gathering of people to hear poetry
is an occasion which calls for
something more.

There were a good number of
people present who seemed some:
what freaked out by Ginsberg’s
method of presentation. I only
hope their personal inhibitions
did not prevent them from appre-
ciating the freedom of the man’s
mind, People like Allen Ginsberg
don’t come here very often; we
should be very open to their way
of thinking while it is immedi-
ately available.

A letter to lacrosse fans

(Reporter’s Note: Recently
W&L lacrosse coach Jack
Emmer receiced a letter from
the student body at Cortland
State, the school from which
Emmer came to W&L. Emmer
has passed the letter along to
the Ring-tum Phi so that parts
of it may be reprinted.)

“.... The campus is buzzing al-
ready about the upcoming season,
and even now plans are being
made to make sure that Cortland

is well represented at the Wash-
ington and Lee game. Let it be
known in Lexington that the
Cortland ‘hordes’ will begin their
invasion the day before the game,
and intend to leave a ringing in
the ears of that Virginia town.
“This, by the way, is a subtle
challenge to Washington and Lee
fans to out do the Cortland faith-
ful in the fanatic department, and
on their own turf to
you at the game!”

boot. See
rage 4

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

Liberty Hall ru

By ROBERT COOK

King’s Tut Tomb it’s not, but
there is a serious archeological
dig taking place on the back acres
of the campus.

With the blessings of the Board
of Trustees Dr. John M. McDaniels
and a crew of 26 students began
this Spring to excavate the ruins
at Liberty Hall.

McDaniel believes this to be
the only archeological dig aimed
at the understanding of an educa-
tional institution.

The Liberty Hall building and
the surrounding structures were
used by the university, then
Washington Academy, from 1793
to 1803.

The site on Mulberry Hill dates
back to 1782 when the academy
noved to Rockbridge County
from Augusta County.

Exactly what there is on top,
or underneath, of Mulberry Hill
is not certain yet. After extensive
research McDaniel is unable to
conclude the exact number or
joeation of buildings which might
have served the academy.

This lack of information on the
university’s past is one area
which the dig might shed some
light on. Aside from the physical
make-up of the academy the dig-
gers will also be attempting to
learn about life of the early
instituition and its students.

So far, excavation on the site
has been limited to some prelimi-
nary trenches east of the Liberty
Hall ruins. McDaniel said he did
not expect to begin excavating
the Liberty Hall building until
next year.

Till then, this summer McDaniel
will be working with cadets from
VMI, the dig will center on the
finding and unearthing of other
major structures which composed

es

The archaeological “dig” is taking
and Lee campus. John MeDaniel heads the project.

the Liberty Hall campus.

The students have already be-
gun to explore the outline of the
foundations of one stone structure
east of the ruins. McDaniels
would not speculate on what the
building might have been, but
records show that at least a
steward’s house, comparable with
our Commons, a rector’s house
and a dairy were part of the
campus.

Washington and Lee University

Mnoksture

See the LACROSSE DISPLAY.

Give to Send TED and SKEET

to Australia.

COOHSSHOSEHHSHSOHHHS *OOHHHOEHOOHHEHOSOHOOOEOOEEE

SSHSSHSSHSHSSSHSSSHSKTSTHOSHSSSECOPSGSPGQECSeHeOeHe2e90909

Thursday, May 9, 1974

     

place near the Liberty Hall ruins to the west of the Washington

Chorale to perform here Sunday

The Harris Singers, a chorale
from Louisa, Va., will present a
concert of gospel music Sunday,
May 12 at Washington and Lee
University.

The program,

which is spon-

Paul’s Bike Shop

11 N. New St, Staunton
Phone 886-1310
PAUL Now Accepting All
BIKE REPAIRS at
Sears’ Lexington Store
Pick-Up Every Wednesday
Returned On Wednesday.

Also New 10 Speeds Batavus
Bikes For Sale.

     
 

Wendell’s
Barber Shop :

OPEN 9-6
9 South Jefferson
Closed Wednesday

 

sored by W&L’s Student Associa-
tion for Black Unity, is scheduled
for Lee Chapel at 3:30 p.m.

The association invites the

public to attend the concert at

no cost.

 

FOR SALE

1963 FORD FAIRLANE
Good Candition
CONTACT JIMMY FARRAR AT:
291-2882, 463-4077, or 463-2866
Very Reasonable Price,

 

  

 

Hamric and Sheridan
JEWELERS
Watch and Jewelry Repair
Hfand Engraving & Class Rings
463-2022

 

 

East Lexington
Grocery

Beer — Ice — Gas
Party Supplies — Snacks
ABC No, 2078—8 a.m.-10 p.m.

SHOP FOR SUNDAY

We Sell & Deliver Kegs

Open 7 days a week

EVENING DINNER

 

 

 
Thursday, May 9, 1974

THE RING-TUM PHI

Page 5

 

Ask Traveller

Known widely as the “voice-tube o’ the campus,” this
frequently handles those Letters-to-the-Editor that do not
allotted space nor the editor’s priggish standards.

Dear Sir:
Hello, I’m Dean Emeritus Rupert Latture.

Sincerely, Ruppert Latture
Dean Emeritus,

Lexington, Va.
Dear Sir:

column
fit the

I’m not the kind of person who usually complains, but the
fact that Mr. Loesel left me behind during last year’s “Africa
Abroad” Program doesn’t endear me to him one bit. It’s no
fun living with a pride of gorillas let me tell you. Ooga,

ooga.

Dear Sir:
Q—What’s the difference between Newcombe Hall and a
maximum security ward for insane cretins?
A—They don’t lock the doors of Newcombe Hall.
Graphically,
Dean Atwood, Commerce School
Wash.&Lee U., USA
Dear Paul:
“Ooh, ooh, baby, take a sea cruise with me
Take a sea cruise with me,
Take a sea cruise with me,

Qoob ic”
Iambically,
Dabney Stuart, laureate
Sincerely, Simp Thomas Mahan Award Winner,
Kenya, Africa Lexington, Va.
Dear Sirs:

Dear M. Lancaster,

I’m not sure about this, but I’ve been unearthing strange
things around Liberty Hall. I’ve got nothing positive but
when you stumble across fourteen shallow graves contain-
ing the skeletons of all the dwarfts and midgets of the Sells
& Gray Circus that was here last spring, I can’t help getting

the willies.
Tentatively yours,
John McDaniel
Sociology Dept.

At-the-digs, Lexington

] wear green woolen socks with a grey suit. Wanna make
something of it??
Dean John, Washington Hall
Lexington, Va.
Dear Senor:
Q—You got the cubed ice here at Kenny’s Bantam Market?
A—Yes, got an ID?
Sensabaughingly yours,
John Paul Woodley
City Hall,
Lexington, Va.

Gibson to give
law lecture series

talk Saturday

George D. Gibson, partner in
the law firm of Hunton, Williams,
Gay & Gibson in Richmond and
general counsel to Virginia Elec-
tric and Power Co., will deliver
the annual John Randolph Tucker
Lecture in Law at Washington
and Lee University Saturday.

Gibson’s topic will be “Law in
the Coming Years.” The lecture,
open to the public, will take place
at. noon in Lee Chapel.

An authority in business and
corporate law, Gibson has been
chairman of several committees
of the American Bar Association
in that field and was editor of the
ABA’s journal The Business
Lawyer in 1957-58. He has been
general counse] to Vepceo since
1958.

The Tucker lecture series was
inaugurated in 1949 by the late
John W. Davis, former solicitor
general of the United States, am-
bassador to Great Britain and
Democratic presidential candidate
in 1924. Since then, Tucker lec-
tures have been delivered by 24
other distinguished lawyers and
juries.

Student arrested for
breakage at Sweet Briar

A Washington and Lee sopho-
more is free on bond following
his arrest in Amherst County in
Virginia Saturday night.

Norman Craig Goodman, 19, of
Montpelier, Va., was arrested by
security guards at Sweet Briar
College. He was charged with
destroying private property. Bail

oa

But there is a way to make it somewhat easier.
Our way. The Armed Forces Health Professions
Scholarship Program. It won’t soften the dernands
of your professors, or those you make upon yourself
—but it may free you from those financial problems
which, understandably, can put a crimp in your
concentration.

lf you qualify, our scholarship program will cover
the costs of your medical education. More, you'll
receive a good monthly allowance all through your
schooling.

But what happens after you graduate?

Then, as a health care officer in the military
branch of your choice you enter a professional
environment that is challenging, stimulating and
satisfying.

An environment which keeps you in contact with
practically all medical specialties. Which gives you
the time to observe and learn before you decide on
your specialty. Which may present the opportunity
to train in that specialty. And to practice it.

You may also find some of the most advanced
medical achievements happening right where you
work, Like at the Brooke Army Medical Center in
San Antonio, Texas, long noted for its Burn Treat-
ment Center. Or the home of Flight Medicine, the
famed Aerospace Medical Division, also in San

ane

Thers’s no casy Way for Chartie

 

 
    

   

Nefsont

Antonio. Or the National Naval Medical Center in
Bethesda, Maryland, recognized worldwide for its
work in Medical Research.

And if you've read this far, you may be interested
in the details. Just send in the coupon and we'll
supply them.

Peay eee eee ere emer ees

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

J Armed Forces Scholarships zcn-44 |
fs Universal City, Texas 78148 I
| desire information for the following program: Army t
f§ Navy CO Air Force [1 Medical/ Osteopathic [) Dental I
f Veterinary* [) Podiatry [] Other (please specify) i
t Name i
I (please print) i
§ Soc. Sec. # I
: Address :
i City I
: State. Zip '
I Enrolled at i
i (school) k
i To graduate in i
(month) (year) (degree)

Bate of birth t
I (month) (day) (year) t
| *Veterinary not available in Navy Program. I

eae ean meena ewe eee

o become Dr. Kelson.

was set at $100 in cash or $200
in property.

ARMED FORCES HEALTH CARE

DEDICATED TO MEDICINE AND THE PEOPLE WHO PRACTICE IT
Page 6

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

Generals now ranked second

3y BILL FLESHER

There’s something about length
which provides an impetus to an
individual or a team when things
aren’t going too well.

The 50-foot birdie putt, the 70-
yard touchdown pass, the jump
shot from the top of the key—cal!
them what you will, they can
bring any competitor, any team
to life when a spark is badly
needed.

Bryan Chasney proved Satur-
day that even in lacrosse there

LACROSSE RALLY
A rally for the lacrosse team
will be held Friday in the fresh-
man quad, beginning at 8:30
p.m.
Refreshments
at 8 p.m.

begin flowing

exists a “bomb”, and, though not
used very often, it can do a lot
to start a rally.

With Washington College goalie
Brvan Matthews far out of the
net after a clearing attempt fail-
ed, Chasney lofted a 40-yard shot
into the open cage to trigger a
third-quarter Washington and Lee
comeback that sent the Generals
to a 12-9 victory over the number
four college division team in the
nation,

“It was simply a heads up play
on Chas’ part,” W&L head coach
Jack Emmer said of the shot.
“Brvan was alert to the goalie
being out on the clear, got the
ball, and fired it home.”

  

There’s a place for you on
Piedmont. For a weekend of
fun, a game out of town, a
quick trip home, whatever —

there’s a Piedmont jet or
propjet flight to fit your
plans. With personal,
thoughtful service always.

Piedmont — serving over 75

cities including Chicago,
New York, Washington,

Norfolk, Atlanta, Memphis.
Call us, or your travel ager

We've got a place for you.

Piedmont

Airlines

The

Chasnev’s goal, his second of
the game, started a four-goal out-
burst that took W&L from a 6-5

deficit to a 9-6 lead. Dave War-
field scored twice while fresh-
man Jack Dudley added the

fourth goal in the third period
rally.

Twice the Generals had the op-
portunity to take control of the
contest, but both times, as Emmer
put it, “We let them off the hook
when we shouldn’t have.”

W&L moved out to a 4-0 first
period lead behind goals by John
Lalley, Warfield, Chasney, and
Don Carroll, who had assisted on

 

 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
  

Thursday, May 9, 1974

es

number two-ranked Generals host Cortland Siate Saturday.

the first three tallies.

The opening stanza also saw ex-
cellent defense on the Generals’
part, as the Shoremen cuold never
mount a serious scoring therat
in the opening fifteen minutes.

Things changed as the second
quarter opened, however, as the
visitors rebounded with four
goals of their own. Greg Lane
scored twice while John Cheek
and Jody Haddow added a goal
each to put the Shoreman back
in the ball game.

Lalley scored his second with
Washington a man down at 13:25
to send the Generals to the locker
room with a 5-4 lead which was
to be shortlived.

Playing at a two-man advant-
age due to W&L penalties the
Shoremen on Cheek’s second goal
tied the game at 5-5 only 19 sec-
onds gone in the third period.
Lane got his third tally at 1:56,
again with the Generals two men

 

—Photo by Robinson

and the Shoremen had a
6-5 lead.

It stayed that way until 8:51,
when Matthews lost the ball on
the clear, and lost the race with

Chasney’s shot to the goal.

short,

Washington closed the gap to
9-8 midway through the final
fifteen on goals by Ty Cook and
Jan Rosenthal. Then Carroll and
Haddow traded their second
goals, making it 10-9 with five
minutes left.

But Ted Bauer and Skip Licht-
fuss then shut the door on the
Shoremen with their only goals
of the game, Bauer’s on a solo
effort, Lichtfuss’ after a Ralph
Baugher feed, to give W&L teir
final margin.

The win upped the Generals’
record to 12-0, with results of
yesterday's game with Franklin
and Marshal! unavailable at press
time.

Notes on lacrosse

By BILL FLESHER

Washington and Lee lacrosse
fans get a chance to help three
members Saturday when the num-
ber two ranked Generals play
host to Cortland State.

The three, head coach Jack
Emmer, goalie and co-captain
Skeet Chadwick, and midfielder
Ted Bauer, have been selected to
participate in a worldwide tour
this summer of an American All-
Star lacrosse team.

Beginning June 22, the team
will leave for Australia, where

they will play in the World Series
of Lacrosse along with teams
from Australia, England, and
Canada.

Other stops on the tour include
Hong Kong, Bangkok, Dehii,
India, and London. The team re-
turns home on July 30.

Emmer will serve as an assist-
ant to head coach Buddy Beard-
more of Maryland, Bauer and
Chadwick are two of the 26 squad
members selected bv a_ special

committee of coaches.

Here’s where the fans come in.

The United States Intercollegi-
ate Lacrosse Association, one of
the sponsors of the tour, will not
be able to come up with enough
funds to subsidize each individ-
ual’s expenses. It has been left
to each player and coach to come
up with over $2,000 to pay for
their expenses on the trip.

Saturday’s game has been desig-
nated a benefit game to raise
money to help pay for the three
team members to make the trip
Donations will be taken at the
gate and during halftime.

OPINION: “Lacrosse fever” is
raging at W&L again, and Jack
Emmer, Ted Bauer, and Skeet
Chadwick, along with the rest of
the Generals, have done a lot to
bring the student body back to
life. They’ve done what they
could over the past few seasons,
now it’s time for you to do some-
thing for them.

(Continued on page 8)

 
 

Thursday, May 9, 1974

Winning b

By BILL AUSTIN
Scores:
W&L 1—Madison 6
W&L 5—Bridgewater 3 (1st)
W&L 3—Bridgewater 4(2nd)
(8 innings)

In games this past week, W&L’s
baseball crew hosted a pair of
VCAA tourney teams and gave
them tough times. Indeed, the
Bridgewater doubleheader was
very nearly a sweep for the Gen-
erals.

Nonetheless, solid pitching and
improved overall play could not
offset the doses of misfortune
that cursed W&L’s fate in two of
the three contests. Quite simply,
the breaks were not there. Thus,
the squad approached its final
game of the season (against
Lynchburg Baptist, to be played
at Lynchburg this afternoon) with
a so-so 7-10 won-lost mark. For
a young, inexperienced group, the
record is creditable enough, but
a far cry from the 5-0 carried
into April.

Madison College brought hopes
for an NCAA post-season bid to
Lexington last Tuesday, and
demonstrated to anyone not lur-
ed to the nearby lacrosse game
why the growing Virginia insti-
tution merited such consideration.
The Dukes can powder the ball!
However, freshman Dan West-
brook obviously believed that
bullish Madison bats could be
tamed, and with the exception of
the third inning, managed as
much in his pitching stint.

The Generals nicked Madison
hurler, Zerombo for a run in the
ist, as Tom Lancaster singled,
advanced on Bonaventura’s single
and Hathway’s grounder, then
trotted home on John Rice’s well
hit fly to centerfield.

The 1-0 lead canished in the
fateful third. In truth, the inning
might not have been so unpleas-
ant for Westbrook and company

 

had not an umpire’s vision falt-
ered at a critical moment. The
display of questionable judgment
occurred when Westbrook’s sly
pickoff move nabbed baserunner
Dalton off first base, trapping the
burly catcher in a run-down.

To save himself, Dalton crashed
into first sacker John Rice, knock-
ing the ball from his grasp by
slamming a pair of flying elbows
to his face. A call for interference
on the part of the baserunner
was imperative, but it never
came. Lyles stormed on to the
field to register a futile protest.
Dalton was back on first safely,
and Madison hitters then erupted.
The barrage included doubles by
Sample and La Cassey, two excel-
lent ballplayers, and a roundtrip-
per by the Duke’s_ shortstop,
Barbe. Five runs crossed the
plate, and the contest was Madi-
son’s.

Westbrook pitched quite well
thereafter, retiring 10 consecutive
batters in one stretch. Of note,
Coach Lyles replaced catcher Al
Burton with Maynard McCorkle,
a stocky freshman who donned a
catcher’s gear for the first time
in practice only a week earlier.
In addition to performing adequa-
ately behind the plate, McCorkle
stroked a single in his two at-bats.

The first end of the Bridge-
water twin-bill again put West-
brook on the mound. This time
he exhibited a high fast ball that
baffled Eagle batters to the tune
of 10 strikeouts in the seven-
inning game. And Generals’ bats
came through in timely fashion.
The chastized Burton, newly ap-
pointed designated hitter, deliv-
ered two base hits to lead the
assault on Bridgewater lefty
Trumbo. Don Hathway slashed a
pair of singles and stole two bases,
5-3, but Westbrook summoned his
trusty hard one to whiff two of

geieeceneenennnenanenenelnennnannnannennnnnntnts
: The First National Bank :
é of Lexington ;
= has special checking accounts for students

* sbobedetede

 

 

 

}

 

 

(=

STUDENT S$!

Make this your headquarters for Good Food

and Service

We have meal tickets at savings to you

SOUTHERN INN

>

 

 

THE RING-TUM PHI

Page 7

 

the final three batters faced in
the 7th.

Bob Carpentier took the mound
for the nightcap, and pitched
well giving up seven hits in his
eight innings of toil. To be sure,
Eagle bats tagged him well in the
end, and netted 3 runs. Center-
fielder Sizemore’s two-run double
keyed the uprising.

However, W&L bounced back
in the fourth. MeCorkle smacked
a long drive to center that bounc-
ed off Sizemore’s outstretched
glove and over the fence, good
for a two-run homer. Again, in
the seventh he doubled to left
to put the tying run on base.
Pinchrunner Tom Hudgins moved

Dry Cleaning

Linen Service

WE DELIVER

Storage & Free Moth Proofing

aseball season hopes are gone

to third on Paul Larkin’s pinch-
hit, then scored on Tom Lancast-
er’s groundball.

Unfortunately, the comeback
fell short of victory. Bridgewater
picked up a cheap run in the
eighth, when rightfielder Marsh
reached second on a_ throwing
error by Bonaventura, scurried to
third on a Carpentier wild pitch
and scored when novice McCorkle
hurled the retrieved ball into left
field. The 4-3 Bridgewater ad-
vantage held, and McCorkle had
blunted the rush for a twin-bill
sweep that he himself had launch-
ed with his bat. A hero’s laurels
and proverbial goat horns were
both his for the afternoon.

UNIVERSITY
CLEANERS

Reliable Service In

Shirts Laundered
Clothing Repair

463-3622

 

 

Get

Your

Streaker
T-shirt

NAME
ADDRESS

 

SHOW YOUR SUPPORT

Ba ae

only 3.95 each or 2 for 6.95 post paid
It's the ONLY T-shirt endorsed by
THE INTERNATIONAL STREAKERS ASSOC,
The MASTER ART Co,
Post Office Box 444 — Maumee, Ohio 43537
Size: S—M—L: $3.95 each — $6.95 for 2 — tax inel.

ae

    
 
 

 

 

 
Page 8 THE RING-TUM PHI

 

R/C Theatres
Regal Cinema Fare
in Lexington

State Theatre

ed citizen of Lexington; and
12-14 W. Nelson St.

463-3424

LAST DAY

Serpico

pastures beckoned; and

Thursday, May 9, 1974

A Proclamation

WHEREAS the GENERALS of Washington and Lee University have
proved to the multitudes that they are the Number Two lacrosse
team in the United States of America (that ranking being the high-
est to which mortal lacrosse players can aspire); and

WHEREAS Washington and Lee University is a beloved and renown-

WHEREAS the residents of this City are extremely proud of this
noble and distinguished University and its heritage and its students
in general—and now of its LACROSSE TEAM in particular; and

WHEREAS this weekend’s game brings to our City the team formerly
coached by Washington and Lee’s JACK EMMER before greener

WHEREAS Washington and Lee and the citizens of Lexington have

FRIDAY and SATURDAY

always extended a full measure of Southern hospitality to every

visiting lacrosse team, even Yankee teams: and

Friends

colleges; and
SUNDAY-MONDAY-TUFESDAY

Cinderalla Liberty

BAUER:

WHEREAS the GENERALS have developed the habit of defeating
every team they encounter, but with particular emphasis on state

WHEREAS this has been in substantial measure the result of the
masterful work of Messrs. SKEETER CHADWICK and TEDDY

Now, therefore, do I,
CHARLES F, PHILLIPS, JR., Mayor of Lexington,
extend the cordial greetings of the City and her residents to

Lyric Cinema

135 S. Main St. 463-3543

our visitors from Cortland State, and
do I further declare Saturday, May 11, 1974, to be
CHADWICK/BAUER/ EMMER DAY

throughout Lexington, Virginia.

THRU SATURDAY

The Tall Blonde
Man with the
One Black Shoe

SUN DAY-MONDAY-TUESDAY

Truck Stop Women

By PAUL MORELLA

With the hopes of establishing
greater communication between
the University Council and the
Student Affairs Committee, a mo-
tion was adopted by the faculty
and the UC calling for the re-
structuring of SAC,

The UC decided to keep the Stu-
dent Affairs Committee and
voted to establish a review board

 

FOR YOUR EXTRA PIECES OF FURNITURE

Varner & Pole

115 Main St. — Lexington, Va.

 

SPARE TIME BUSINESS

Own your own profitable vending business. $200 to $600
monthly earnings possible in your spare time (day or
eve.). NO SELLING. If selected, you will be servicing
company established locations.

OUR COMPANY IS A SUPPLIER OF
NABISCO SNACK ITEMS.
REQUIREMENTS: $1,000 to $5,000 Cash Investment,
(secured by machines and merchandise)

good character, dependable auto, and 6 to 9 spare hours
weekly. Income starts immediately! We supply product,
machines, locations, expansion financing, buy back
option, and professional guidance. If you are sincerely
interested in applying for this genuine opportunity to-
ward financial success, please call or write (include
phone number) for personal interview in your area to:

MR. ROBERT L. ANDERSON
WORLD INDUSTRIES INC.
Executive Suite 303

1919 East 52nd Street
Indianapolis, Indiana 46205
Telephone (317) 257-5767

 

 

 

Charles F. Phillips, Jr.

Students Affairs Committee is restructured

of the Council as follows: three
senior representatives, two junior
representatives, two sophomore
representatives, one freshman
representative, the chairman of
the Student Control Committee,
the President of the Intrafrater-
nity Council, two law students, as
well as the President of the Stu-
dent Body. The UC previously
consisted of four seniors, three
juniors, two sophomores, one
freshman, two law students, and
the President of the Student
Body.

It may also be noted that the
Council shall distribute to the
faculty reports of its policy de-
cisions for the information of the
faculty. In addition, in the case of
a student against whom the state
has preferred criminal charges
but for whom the university has
not been able to complete disci-
plinary procedures, the Student
Control Committee should con-
duct an investigation into the
charge and determine whether or
not the case warrants the suspen-
sion of a degree. The faculty
must, of course, agree with this
decision.

Along the same lines, because
the Constitution of the Independ-
ent Union remained unchanged,
the election for Independent
Union President will not be con-
ducted until next fall, if necessary
changes are made in the Inde-
pendents’ constitution.

Funds asked to send
W&L players on tour

(Continued from page 6)

The Executive Committee Mon-
day moved to donate $150 to the
fund so that the trio can go. And
that was $50 more than what was
asked for.

To be named to this team is
a great honor, and it’s a great
honor for Washington and Lee to
be represented on the squad as
they are. Bauer, Chadwick, and
Coach Emmer will go only if you
help. For all that W&L lacrosse
has meant to this school over
the past few years, a couple of
dollars Saturday shouldn’t be too
much at all.

a % *
MORE OPINION: Just because
W&L is number two in this

week’s USILA poll does not mean
that the Generals will get the sec-
ond seed in the NCAA lacrosse
tournament. Saturday’s game
with Cortland State will go a long
way in determining where W&L
starts in the tournament.

Just a few facts about the game
with the Dragons Saturday:

—Cortland has an excellent la.
crosse team.

—They have been looking for
this game ever since Jack Emmer
left Cortland and came to W&L.

—That letter from the Cortland
student body is no idle threat.
Their fans are known to be, to
put it mildly, crazy.

—And, as Emmer put it,
“They'll be here in force.”

W&L fans have rallied behind
the Generals before, and they'll
have to do it again this week. The
challenge has been issued. Now
let’s see if vou will meet it.

And, for those planning short
vacations this weekend, the beach
will always be there, but will the
chance for a NCAA lacrosse title
still be here on Saturday?

The choice should be simple.
After all, how badly do you want
the national championship?

Sazeracs to perform

The Sazeracs, Washington and
Lee’s singing fraternity, will pre-
sent a concert Tuesday night at
8 p.m. in Fairfax Lounge in the
University Center. The concert is
sponsored by the national music
fraternity, Mu Beta Psi.

The Sazeracs are a group of
10 students who perform all the
“old favorites” in four-part har-
mony. They have performed this
year at area girls’ schools, the
Homestead, and the Greenbriar.
Among their songs—‘Five-foot
two,” “Dixie,” and “The Wiffen-
poof Song.”

 

The Alexander-Withrow House

3 WEST WASHINGTON STREET

A restored historic landmark with five period-furnished guest suites.
A different experience in overnight hospitality for those who love
fine things. Students may make reservations for their parents and
tour the house from 10-2 Tuesday through Saturday or write Mrs.

Harriet Thomas.

 
 

Bryan Chasney (left)
scores one of his
three goals Saturday
against Cortland.
The third-seeded
Generals take on
Navy this Saturday
on Wilson Field.
Game time is 3 p.m.

—Photo by Robinson

The Ring-tum Phi

Washington and Lee University’s Weekly Newspaper
LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA, MAY 16, 1974

Few attend honor forum

Vol. LXXIII

by PAUL MORELLA

An open discussion on _ the
Honor System at Washington and
Lee University was held Tues-
day evening in Lee Chapel in an
attempt to develop an understand-
ing of the current sentiments to-
ward the system.

Chaired by current student
body president, Doug Schwartz
and next year’s student body
president, Ben Bailey, the discus-
sion, which began at 8 p.m. was
attended by about 26 students
and faculty members, but had
dwindled down to 15 when the
meeting ended at 10:35.

In light of the recent public
honor trial, a question was raised
concerning the effect of a public
trial on the honor system. “Of
course this is my personal opi-
nion,” stated Bailey, “but anyone
who says that the last public
honor trial was the end of the
honor system is barking up the
wrong tree.”

In adition, Schwartz added that
the verdict shows that the stu-
dents don’t buy a black-white, ab-
solute penalty honor system.
Along the same lines, a good part
of the earlier discussion was cen-
tered around the public trial and
the questions that arose concern.
ing the transcripts, the jury, and
other aspects.

However, as the discussion pro-
gressed, one faculty member out-
lined the necessity for defining
honor and advocated discussing
the system much more openly in
the near future. “I would fulfill
my obligations to the system,”
stated Professor Mario Pellicciaro,

“but I would like this thing talk-
ed about more openly if I am to
abide by it.” It (the honor sys-
tem) is full of problems and it
might help to talk about it.

“T asked for a definition of
honor,” continued the faculty
member, “I mean, is it honorable
to write a paper you don’t believe
in, but you know it will get you
a good grade?”

To this Schwartz replied that
the problem of defining whether
or not an act is dishonorable is a
“gut” decision and that “honor is
nebulous.” Dean John _ added,
“The idea of honor at W&L has
traditionally been an absolute
one.” He continued by saying that
previously, honor would have
been defined but now, each per-
son feels compelled to abide by
their own definition of honor.

For most of the evening the dis-
cussion covered the questions of
why have an honor system and
why limit it to “lying, cheating,
and stealing.” Although the dis-
cussion did not satisfy completely
those involved, it did, neverthe-
less, open new channels for de-
bate on the rising concern for the
Honor System at Washington and
Lee.

Phi staff meeting set

There will be a meeting of all
persons interested in working on
next year’s Ring-tum Phi next
Thursday at 6:30 p.m. in Room
208 of the University Center. All
rising sophomores, juniors and
seniors interested in working on
the newspaper next year are ask-
ed to attend.

Number 27

Powell honored;
Phi awards given

Lewis Powell was awarded the
Dean Frank Gilliam Award Wed-
nesday night at the Senior Ban-
quet in Evans Dining Hall.

Winners of the Ring-tum Phi
awards for outstanding service to
the university, also presented
Wednesday night, are Martha Mil-
ler, secretary to the Dean of Stu-
dents; James Toler, manager of
the University Supply Store; John
McDaniel, professor of sociology

and anthropology; and _ seniors
Doug Thomas and Bill Austin.

Besides Powell, 15 other stu-
dents were nominated for the
Gilliam Award. They are: Gary
Avery, Michael Brittin, Robert
Evans, Russ Fletcher, Lawrence
Framme, Stephen Greene, Robert
Johnson, Floyd Lewis, Charles
McNulty, Rolf Piranian, Douglas
Schwartz, Douglas Thomas, B.
Harrison Turnbull, William Wal-
lace, and John Zamoiski.

Amendments, UC run-offs set today

Run-offs are being held today
for three positions on the Univer-
sity Council.

In the run-offs are Channing
Martin and Mitch Seleznick for
one senior UC position, and Terry
Atwood, Davis Davis, Ken Payne,
and Clark Thompson for two
sophomore positions.

Winners in Monday’s elections
are: senior UC—Jim Overton,

John Ratzel; junior UC—Bill Gar-
rison and Ted Reeds.

‘Nine faculty positions on the
UC have been filled by faculty
elections. Those serving on next
year’s UC from the faculty are
Severn Duvall, Leonard Jarrard,
Philip Keith, S. Todd Lowry,
Barry Machado, John McDaniel,
Mario Pellicciaro, William Ses-
sions, and Pamela Simpson.

Correction

Last week’s Ring-tum Phi stat-
ed that the faculty defeated mo-
tions to add one student to each of
the Courses and Degrees Commit-
tee and the Faculty Executive
Committee. The faculty, however,
did approve the additional stu-
dent on the Courses and Degrees
Committee by a reportedly large
majority. The second motion fail-

ed.

And on page 8, the Phi listed
nine students as an apparent re-
view board on student discipline.
The list of students, however, rep-
resents the new student repre.
sentation on the University Coun.
cil. The Student Affairs Com-
mittee will maintain reviewing
power of discipline cases,
Page 2 THE RING-TUM PHI

 

Increasing student voices

Last week, the faculty voted to place an adidtional student,
picked from the student body at large, on the Courses and
Degrees Committee of the university. The faculty also de-
feated a motion which would have placed a second student on
the Faculty Executive Committee in addition to one student
Executive Committee member already there.

The former move represents a step ahead for students in
their bid for an increased voice in campus affairs. It is, how-
ever, a far cry from a motion defeated by the faculty in the
Fall Term of this school year; that motion would have in-
creased the membership to four students while still giving
the faculty a clear voting majority, a fail-safe, if you will. But
the motion was defeated.

One faculty voice described the adidtion of a student both
committees last week as a move to give the students a great-
er say in university affairs; indeed, the presentation of the
proposals to the faculty by the Facutly EC said the motions
would “maintain a clear and open channel of communication

_ between the student body” and the committees.

Two aspects of last week’s actions merit questioning.
While we are ecstatic that another student will be manning
the C&D Committee in the future, we think last fall’s proposal
of adding three students to that committee would have been
better.

The faculty would still have maintained a clear voting
edge, and there would be opportunity for student input from
four students, not just two. The C&D Committee is a mid-
point between the Student Curriculum Committee and the
faculty, which has final say in all course and degree action.
It only seems reasonable that the C&D should serve as a mid-
point in terms of representation, too. Or at least the division
between students and faculty on that committee should ap-
proach a balance.

As for the defeat of the proposal which would have placed
a second student of the Faculty EC, the question is “Why?”

The Faculty EC itself recomended by a 7-1 vote to the
faculty that the addition be made. And, it seems, the Faculty
EC should know. Again, the faculty would have maintained
a clear voting majority, which it should on the Faculty EC;
and additional communication would have been produced by
the addition.

But the faculty has acted in its own mysterious ways. We
can only thank as we do God for what we’ve got—a small
inroad into solving the communications gap between stu-
dents and faculty at Washington and Lee.

Letters to t

Thursday, May 16, 1974

On a student tax proposal

In theory, we commend last week’s Executive Committee
recommendation to allot $5 of the $30 student tax to whatever
the individual student wants to do, within reason, with that
$5.

In practice, however, we damn it. Because it just isn’t
going to work. Somebody hasn’t been doing his homework.

The proposal would leave the general student body fund
with $25. Fine, when compared to this year’s student tax
of $17. That’s $8 more to spend, right? Wrong.

The problem is the allocation of funds to the Student Ac-
tivities Board. This year, only a small portion of that body’s
expenses were paid for by the student tax. The rest was paid
by a sort of loan contracted between the university and the
EC. Also to pay for the SAB, all organizations were asked to
tighten their belts this year, and the publications reserve fund
was wiped out. All this was done on the promise of a return
to normalcy next year.

Our calculations estimate the costs for SAB at around
$10 per student. That, with the $17 student tax, produces a
figure of $27 of the $30 tax needed just to operate next year
comporably with this year’s tight budget, let alone return to
normalcy.

If you haven't figured it out yet, $27 is $2 more than the
$25 the EC budget would have per student if that $5 is taken
out.

It just isn’t going to work.

THE RING-TUM PHI

The Ring-tum Phi is published on Thursdays during the college year.
It is printed by the Journalism Laboratory Press, Washington and Le:
University. The mailing address is Box 899, Lexington, Virginia 24450.
Entered as second class matter September 29, 1946, at the Post Office,
Lexington, Virginia 24450, under the act of March 3, 1879. Subscription
rates: $6.00 for the school year, $3.00 for the semester.

PAUL J. LANCASTER ANDREW J. A. CHRISS

Editor-in-chief Business Manager
We eet ee be Sa a Ss as as 8s So Ss Jess Reeves
TU TR a ha i ek David Lee
ee ee ee ee ee eS ee Bill Austin
eS a es ei Bill Robinson
Patera ene Pet = 8. 2. Sen eS Rome Scott
See | SS Dave Finnell, John Killpack, Chuck Alt
Caaitivaioss =. 2. &.; Robert Cook, W. Patrick Hinely, Bill Flesher,

Paul Morella, Tom Rittenburg, David Finnell, John Ellis

he Editor

 

 

Fraternities mistreated
Sir:

During the course of my four
years at W&L, I have witnessed
the gradual demise of the frater-
nity system here. Unfortunately,
this has not been a natural pheno-
menon, but rather, one which as
far as I can see has been carefully
planned and carried out by a
small group of independents who
have successfully managed to in-
filtrate and quickly gain control
of the three student publications
of this university.

Having once served as presi-
dent of my own fraternity, I feel
that I can safely speak with ob-
jectivity about this subject.
When I first entered this school
nearly every student leader was
a fraternity man. But now look at

the situation. The only important
organization which is currently
headed by a Greek is the EC,
which until only recently was
controlled by a first year law stu-
dent, from New York no less!
whose candidacy I might add was
blatantly supported by the editors
of the Phi.

(Ed. note: not true!)

Not only that, but when was the
last time your newspaper devoted
any coverage to _ intramural
sports? (Ed. note: during basket-
ball season) Moreover, even the
Calyx refuses to set aside any
rom for the fraternities, preferr-
ing instead to waste space depict-
ing campus “freaks” tossing fris-
bees about or something else aty-
pical of the true W&L. Consequ-
ently, is it any surprise that the
number of freshmen going

through rush has declined over
the years?

Frankly, I am getting a little
fed up with all this. Just because
this small group of pseudo-intel-
lectuals couldn’t get into a fra-
ternity doesn’t mean that they
have the right to completely dis-
regard the frats in terms of ade-
quate coverage in these publica-
tions. After all, if it wasn’t for the
financial support which we give
to the Student Activity Board, the
independents would find them-
selves with little to do on week-
ends except listen to James Tay-
lor through expensive headphones
from home.

Yours very truly,
Beau Dudley, ’74

Additional Ed. Note: Next year’s
editor of the Phi is a fraternity
man, So is next year’s EC presi-

dent, and next year’s head dorm
counselor, and next year’s Calyx
editor, and this year’s Contact co-
chairmen, and this year’s Calyx
editor, and most of next year’s
EC, and so forth.

.. We find it amusing to think
we're conspiring with Doug Sch-
wartz to demean the fraternities.
We find it amusing to think we'd
be conspiring with Doug Schwartz
on any issue,

A reply to Gingold
Sir:

Inasmuch as the administration
of the University does not seem
to have a spokesman of its own
in the matter, and insofar as too
many errors seem to go uncor-
rected in our several media these

(Continued on page 8)

 

 
Thursday, May 16, 1974

A Ring-tum Phi exclusive—

THE RING-TUM PHI

Page 3

 

What REALLY goes on at faculty meetings

Editor’s note: We’ve always won-
dered why the faculty is so con-
cerned with keeping its monthly
meetings secret. So the Ring-tum
Phi set up a microphone and tape
recorder in an unsuspecting fac-

that meeting follows:

Time: 4:30 p.m., Monday, May
6, 1974 .

H: Alright, let’s get this (exple-
tive deleted) meeting underway,
(expletive deleted).

 

ulty member’s briefcase and re-
corded what happened at last
week’s faculty meeting in New
Science 305. The transcript of

W: (Unintelligible).

S: Mr. Chairman, I don’t believe
we have a (expletive deleted)
quorum.

Se

 

>
WY
~
om
“=
Qo
<
©
=
emt,
©
—

Q—How does one go about applying for financial aid at Washington
and Lee?

A—You can’t be serious. One does not apply for aid at W&L, one whis-
tles Dixie and hopes Marse Robert’s spirit knows the tune,

In the back of the catalogue, there are over one hundred assorted
scholarships listed, with enough collective fiscal clout to send one stu-
dent to this college a dozen times, to purchase five million prints of
Ol’ Lexington from Sally Munger Mann, and have seventy deranged
surgeons hired to disembowel Bob Barker on the air. But just try
applying for one of these financial albatrosses. The conditions at-
tached to these scholarships are so limiting that, unless you are a
crippled penguin with a nervous twitch in one eye, chances for re-
ceiving aid are hopelessly slim.

The types of scholarships offered at W&L range from the simple
work-grant, (involving menial tasks such as majoring in Accounting
or painting fire hydrants), to the full-scale memorial endowments,
most of which are available only to deceased members of the Class of
‘03. Explained Dean Pate, director of student financial aid: “Of course,
these deceased students must still demonstrate financial need, al-
though in the past few of them have stepped foreward, backwards, or
even knocked three times at alumni seances. It’s discouraging, because
1 enjoy giving other people’s money away. Why, I’m the Monte Hall
of Washington Hall!”

The following scholarships have been selected by friendly Dean
Pate for their great student appeal and big cash pay-offs. Take heed,
needy students. Your troubles are over, almost.

***The Elenor Naubrain Limmerick Prize; a gross of Big Chief Tablets
given for the year’s most mindless poem written by a student from
Wisconsin. Example:

“There once was a student named Schwartz,

who won fame for his liberal retorts.
But in Tucker Hall he had sense to straddle the fence
and wear suits over blue denim shorts.”

***The Lucky Duffy Memorial Fund, established in 1960 in grateful
memory of Chester Duffy, sophomore, who was killed by a gaggle of
Canadian geese, attracted by his aftershave. The recipient of this
scholarship must be free, white, and from Cleveland, or nothing doing.
***The Riddle of the Sphinx Scholarship; awarded to that student
successfully answering the question: what’s the difference between
Cortland State and a plate of whipped tapioca? This riddle was created
by cunning policemen in Boston to browbeat confessions out of har-
dened criminals. Amount: $25, plus a sapling planted in the student’s
name along Interstate 64.
***The W&L Gaffe Award; given to that student committing the least
pardonable gaucherie while in the act of running for office. This
year’s winner: Doug Ford, candidate for senior UC, who used paper
ripped out of a note-book for campaign posters. 2nd place: John Paul
Woodley, for wearing Ocedar sponge suits during his city council bid.
Amount: $10, and a genuine Wendell Wilkie pennant.

Q—Well, what is the difference between Cortland State and a plate of
whipped tapioca?
A—The plate.

Dear Traveller:

In last week’s column you published a complaint from Simp Tho-
mas, who said I left him in Kenya with a gang of gorillas. Mr. Thomas
was not a reguiar W&L student on the African Safari. He assured
the Dean he was taking leave from the White House staff for reasons
of national security and wanted an inconspicuous way to leave the
country.

I tried to find a suitable “cover” for him, but I admit—and it
would be wrong not to admit — that my choice of a gorilla gang was
based on a misunderstanding: I thought his name was Chimp.

If Simp wants back his job, I won't stand in his way.

Helpfully yours,
James Loesel
Instructor in Politics

W: (Unintelligible).

H: (Expletive deleted), how
many (expletive deleted) do we
need for a (expletive deleted)
quorum?

P: According to the by-laws,
we need two-thirds of the faculty
or else the vice-chairman has to
run around the podium three
times backwards singing the
“W&L Swing.”

W: (Unintelligible).

J: I will not run around the
(expletive deleted) podium back-
wards again. Last time I bruised
my (expletive deleted) tu-tu.

H: Alright then, how many fac-
ulty members are there?

W: (Unintelligible).

J: One-hundred twenty.

Mec: (Expletive deleted). You
know there’s one-hundred forty-
three. Don’t forget the Doremus
faculty.

J: Faculty! (expletive deleted).
The P.E. guys aren’t faculty.
They’re (expletive deleted) staff.
They get privileges to come to
the faculty swimming party every
May Day, but they just aren’t (ex-
pletive deleted) faculty members.
For that matter, those (expletive
deleted) drama, music and art
“professors” aren’t faculty either.
Anybody can teach a (expletive
deleted) kid to weld and throw
paint on a canvas and win first
prize in a student art show. (ex-
pletive deleted).

H: Shut the (expletive deleted)
up, J. We all know the Doremus
profs and the fine arts profs are
all faculty members. (Whisper to
J) After all, we’ve gotta let ’em
on the (expletive deleted) fac-
ulty. How else would we get all
our jock straps free?

W: (Unintelligible).

H: Okay, so do we have a quor-
um? Let’s see. Two-thirds of 143
8, OR; OF. : ;

W: (Unintelligible).

H: Yeah, that’s right. Do we
have that many here?

J: There’s 93 here, sir.

H: Close enough. Okay, first is
old business. Clerk, read off the
old business.

K: Washington and Lee is 225
years old.

H: Is there a motion to approve
the old business?

W: (Unintelligible).

P: (Inaudible).

H: All in favor?

(Random shouting, including
“Get your Good Humor bars
here,” and “W’s mother wears an-
chovy earrings.”’)

H: The motion passes.

R: What about the (expletive
deleted) nays?

H: (Expletive deleted).

‘R: Same to you buddy, and this,
too. (Apparent obscene gesture).

E the A: Three percent of com-
merce graduates go on to law
school.

W: (Unintelligible).

H: Is there any other (exple-
tive deleted) business?

K: Yeah, I’m setting up a smail
business on the east side of town.

W: (Unintelligible).

K: Huh?

W: (Unintelligible).

K: What?

W: (Unintelligible).

K: No, we don’t sell hearing
aids.

H: Any other business?

L: Can somebody help me tie
my sandals?

P: Sandals don’t have strings.

L: No wonder I couldn't tie
them.

E the A: Where’s Dean V. with
my pipe?

S: I’ve got to winky-tink.

H: You’re excused.

N: For God’s sake, don’t use the
terrarium this time. My prized

(Continued on page 4)

‘Dig’ to continue

through summer

An archaeological “dig” at the
171-year-old ruins of Liberty Hall
Academy in Lexington will con-
tinue through the summer, and
men and women of high-school
age and above are invited to par-
ticipate for academic credit
through Virginia Military Instit-
ute’s summer school program.

The course is taught by Dr.
John M. McDaniel, assistant an-
thropology professor at Washing-
ton and Lee University, who has
been conducting the “dig” this
spring with students in his archa-
eological field techniques course
at W&L,

Liberty Hall was the first Lex-
ington home of Washington and
Lee’s predecessor institution.

Built in 1793, it burned Christmas
Eve, 1802, whereupon the school

moved to its present location a
mile closer to town. The ruins
have been preserved at the west
edge of the W&L campus.

The “dig” is being carried out
in conjunction with W&L’s
American Bicentennial program,
and expectations are that evi-
dence to be unearthed will shed
new light on academic and stu.
dent life at the institution at the
end of the eighteenth century.

Qualified students — high-schoo!
seniors and college men and wo-
men — can earn six hours’ credit
through the VMI program. Others
credits through the course, Addi-
can earn 10 continuing education
tional information can be obtain-
ed from Dr. McDaniel at Washing.
ton and Lee or from Dr. Clark
King, VMI summer session direc.
tor.
Page 4

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

An analysis

Thursday, May 16, 1974

Another exchange approved

by JESS REEVES
Last week the faculty approved
an exchange program with Vir-
ginia Union University in Rich-
mond to begin next year. One is
inclined to question how desir-
able such an exchange program
is for Washington and Lee.
Virginia Union University is a
predominantly black institution.
lf the goal of the exchange pro-
gram is to offer new environmen-
tal experience for the student and
diversity to the student body then
an exchange program with a
black intsitution is understand-
able.
If the first and foremost goal
of W&L is academic excellence

then this particular exchange will
add little to the schoo] and could
prove to be detrimental.

The faculty did not simply ac-
cept an exchange program to
bring more blacks here but enter-
ed into a consortium with a schoo]
whose academic standards are far
below those of this institution. As
a matter of fact Va. Union falls
far below all of the other schools
with which Washington and Lee
exchanges students.

According to the Comparative
Guide to American Colleges, 1973,
the average SAT scores for fresh-
men at Va. Union are 320 verbal,
340 math. The average SAT scores
for a}] the other schools in the ex-

Luce awards offer
a year's study in Asia

Washington and Lee’s Graduate
Fellowships Committee, will se-
lect nominees for the Henry A.
Luce Scholars program early next
fall, according to Dr. Robert W.
MeAhren, associate dean of the
Coilege. Students who are in-
terested in participating in the
Luce Foundation’s Asian studies
program are invited to make in-
quiries through him.

As many as four W&L nomi-
nees may be proposed. Those se-
jected by the Foundation will re-
ceive a $9,000 stipend for a year’s
postgraduate study in Asia ($11,-
(00 for married Luce Scholars).
The foundation will also provide
air transportation and certain in-
surance benefits as well.

Students must be seniors or law
students when they apply (re-

cent graduates are eligible as
well), between the ages of 21 and
30. According to the Luce Founda-
tion, “nominees should have a
strong, mature and clearly defin-
ed career interest in a specific
field”—except that specialists in
Asian affairs or international re-
lations are ineligible. Academic
achievement is also an important
factor, the foundation advises.

W&L is one of 60 prestigious
schools in America which have
been invited to participate in the
Luce program, which will begin
its first year of operation next
vear .No academic credit accom-
panies the program, but intern-
ships and similar job-study ar-
rangements will be made in the
fields of each Luce Scholar’s in-
terest.

 

 

Washington and Lee University
Bookstore

Last Day To
Charge:
May 17th

eeeeeeceecesese ecece ‘eeeecececeeeceeceesceceseceesed

change program are well over 500
and W&L’s scores are very close
to 600, about double those for Va.
Union.

This is what could kindly be
called bending over backwards.

The most important goal for
this institution is achieving aca-
demic excellence. All other con-
siderations, i.e., diversity of the
student body, must be secondary
to this.

Any of our students who go to
Va. Union will be able to rub
shoulders with blacks but they
Will also receive credit for sitting
in classes which are designed for
students who can not move as
fast as W&L students. If they do
survive the boredom they wil]
not learn as much as they would
here, to say the least.

Virginia Union will supposedly
send members of their student
body here who can do the work.
This is an unsigned and informal
agreement. Certainly they will
not allow students to come here
who they do not think can make
it academically, but W&L must
rely on their good faith and judg-
ment. There is really no way to
say what they will ship to Lex-
ington.

If this school is interested in
bringing more blacks to this cam-
pus then a black school of com-
parable standing might be found.
Otherwise W&L is sacrificing its
good name. In the last analysis it
is up to our Admissions Office to
find their own competent black
recruits,

Washington and Lee has an
image and standards which should
be maintained, and an exchange
program with Va. Union is cer-

Paul’s Bike Shop

11 N. New St., Staunton
Phone 886-1310
PAUL Now Accepting All
BIKE REPAIRS at

Sears’ Lexington Store

Pick-Up Every Wednesday
Returned On Wednesday.
Also New 10 Speeds Batavus
Bikes For Sale.

   

Wendell’s
Barber Shop

OPEN 9-6
9 South Jefferson

Closed Wednesday

 

 

tainly not a means toward en-
hancing the reputation and aca-
demic environment of this institu-
tion.

Retired professor

goes to Yugoslavia
to review movies

O. W. Riegel, professor emeritus
of journalism at Washington and
Lee University, will be an official
guest at the Second World Ani-
mated Film Festival next month
a Zagreb, Yugoslavia.

Prior to the festival June 10 to
15, Riegel will spend a week in
Budapest at the invitation of
Hungarofilm, the state cinema
agency, to review recent Hungar-
ian films and to meet directors
and producers.

Riegel is a member of the board
FIPRESCI, (cq) an international
of directors of the American Fed-
eration of Film Societies and of
association of film writers. He
taught journalism at Washington
and Lee from 1930 until his re-
tirement in 1973, and for more
than 30 years was head of the de-
partment.

Faculty meetings

(Continued from page 3)
(inaudible) nearly died the last
time.

H: If there’s no other business,
and even if there is, I deem this
(expletive deleted) meeting ad-
journed. I’ve got to get home to
see “I Dream of Jeanie.” She’s
supposed to get Major Nelson in
all sorts of trouble today. Tee-
hee,

W: (Unintelligent).

Meeting adjourned with both
the big hand and the little hand
just past the five.

 

Hamric and Sheridan
JEWELERS
Watch and Jewelry Repair
Hand Engraving & Class Rings
463-2022

 

 

East Lexington
Grocery

Beer — Ice — Gas

Party Supplies — Snacks
ABC No, 2078—8 a.m.-10 p.m.
SHOP FOR SUNDAY
We Sell & Deliver Kegs

Open 7 days a week
EVENING DINNER

 

 

 
Thursday,

Hectic day a

by JOHN ELLIS

1974’s Kentucky Derby was
highlighted by Connonade’s thun-
dering triumph over twenty-two
also-rans, among them, the favor-
ite, Judger,who got trapped be-
hind a couple of walls of horse-
flesh. One horse, Flip Sal, after
bumping into Judger as they tried
to blast through a hole in the
the wall, broke his leg and will
probably be destroyed. It was the
largest field ever.

The race was attended by Prin-
cess Margaret and Lord Snowdon,
who saw Cannonade flash to glory
and eternal recognition. It was a
horse race to remember, I sup-
pose, but I was in the infield and
didn’t see a horse all day.

I did hear one, though, once.
After I got through the grand-
stand gates, plunking down my
five dollars, I progressed about 75
yards into the tunnel. The tunnel

May 16, 1974

runs under the Churchill Downs
track and leads into the oval in-
field grounds. As I stood under
the track, packed with several
thousand other people, the pound-
ing hooves of the first race sound-
ed over our heads.

The second race went off (I
heard the bell) forty minutes lat-
er, and I had progressed another
hundred yards to a clear spot. On
my left, about fifteen guys got
into a styrofoam cooler-smashing
an bottle-throwing fight, as I sat
down. One of the group bared his
essentials to a camera carrying
older man, and they all laughed
at that. The bottles were getting
close, so I moved on another fifty
yards, found another clear patch
of unblanketed grass, and sat
down to watch the circus.

Guys outnumbered girls slight-
lv, but cutoff and _halter-top
chicks endlessly ran, walked or
layed around, watching or talking

 

neries
Each fraternity has been ask-
ed to nominate a member of
their freshman class. A letter
should be placed in the IFC
box in Ken Lane’s office by
Friday afternoon.

The Interfraternity Council
is reinstating an annual award
given to a freshman fraternity
member judged to be outstand-
ing in personal achievement,
scholastically and in general
contributions to the school.

 

 

 

 

wee

 

PSPS SS TT TT IT

Have

 

LL ee

 

for their patronage this year
good summer.

he i hie that tiiidiatel

eS se eee ee

The gang at the Co-op
wishes to thank the students
of Washington and Lee

 

 

OE

 

cin ie o a — ciliate
ee ee Se eS ee ee ee ee ee eee ee eee

i a a. be i,

ii i lla illicit lial

 

to the guys, or

THE RING-TUM PHI Page 5
being watched or ‘They began pelting the police

talked to. The huge
were bombed.

Mammoth cups of beer went for
95c (Big Beer is Here!, the signs
said), knocwursts 85¢e (Big Frank
is Here!) and mint jeleps went
for a sobering $1.75 (for a little
bourbon, ice, sugar and mint,
steep). The appeal of a mint jelep
was immediately apparent. The
sugar rushes the bourbon to its
appointed ends, and the mint
gives the thing enough seasoned
sharpness to complete the job of
blitzing the senses.

I had to meet a cousin at one
o’clock at the flagpole, the only
landmark ever-visible, except for
the twin spires on the grandstand
across the way. At one, as I stood
near the pole, a guy shimmied up
the pole and, hanging there, drop-
ped his drawers, to Princess Mar-
garet’s delight and surprise, I
hope. This brave act of courage-
ous valor was somewhat blighted
when he was too scared to jump
down from the metal hood which
is attached to the flagpole about
nine feet up However, once he
made it down, state police grabb-
ed him, stirring the crowd up.

majority

 

WLUR
91.5

on your FM dial

with bottles, cans and fruit, hitt-
ing spectators in the process (one
spectator incurred a _ fractured
skull).

The infield party wasn’t. Petty
violence continued. Beer was still
passed around, the sun fried light
tans into slashing sunburns. My
cousin went to the men’s room,
where a guy, jumping from the
building roof, kicked out a win-
dow above my cousin’s head,
which was cut along with his
shoulder. After he was patched
up at the first aid center (0.D.’s,
broken arms, cuts), the blood wip-
ed off his face, we went back to
our spot and waited for his friend
to revive from the dead. He woke
a half-hour later.

As the sun set and the air gray-
ed, we dragged ourselves away
from the trashed racing grounds
where 160,000 people (the largest
crowd ever, and 90,000 of them in
the infield) had partied. We left
sunburnt, rip-offed, over-boozed,
lead-headed, dirty, tired and hun-
gry, three of the 90,000 parts of
the crowd who attended the event
of the century, the 100th Ken-
tucky Derby Infield Party.

 

FOR SALE
1967 SAAB

station wagon, good condi-
tion, radial tires, complete
shop manual—$500.00

See Larry Mann, The Black-
smith Shop — Randolph St.
or call 463-4293

 

 

 

Dry Cleaning

Linen Service

WE DELIVER

© COCSNSSNSHSHSSHSHSESSESHSASHHSOSSSOEOOCE

+ +e et ee to Ooo oo + + Yo oo Do oo DD DD Dt DD DY. DD. DD Se 8. Se OD OD
% oe ss SS Ss Gs 2 88 8 8 8 CS SS Se TC eT TT Tee ae
«
% ° ° [ R k *
* The First National Ban :
% ° a
= of Lexington ‘
“
= has special checking accounts for students *
eee eine ea St, te DD, BB, DD, Be Be Be te Ye Be Be Me Me Me Be Be te Ma Ba Be te Be Ba Be Be —
coeceeeo ee eee eee TTT ee Tee eee Ee ee eS

UNIVERSITY
CLEANERS

Reliable Service In

Storage & Free Moth Proofing

 

Shirts Laundered

Clothing Repair

463-3622
Page 6

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

 

by BILL FLESHER

Washington and Lee gave two
more lessons in lacrosse last
week, and, in the process, gave
the rest of the lacrosse world fair
warning that they are ready for
the NCAA lacrosse Champion-
ships, which begin Saturday with
four quarterfinal matches.

Franklin and Marshall took last
Wednesday’s pointers as the Gen-
erals piled up a 14-1 lead, then
emptied the bench and coasted to
a 19-11 win.

Saturday W&L completed its
second perfect regular season in
a row as Cortland State, the third-
ranked college division ten, in-
vaded Lexington with hopes of
proving General’s coach Jack Em-
mer wrong for leaving the up-
state New York school for W&L,
but instead went home more
aware of what makes a lacrosse
team great, in addition to being
14-+ losers.

“For all concerned, both games
were good ones for us,” said Em-
mer after Saturday’s contest.

“I think that we are now ready
to go into the tournament and
play the outstanding lacrosse I
know we are capable of.”

W&L wasted no time in assum-
nig control of both of last week’s
games.

The Generals scored four times

before the Diplomats’ Paul Long
could break the ice for F&M. Af-
ter that, however, F&M’s attack-
men didn’t do much as W&L rat-
tled of ten straight goals in 13
minutes.

In acordance with NCAA rules,
there will be a $3 admision charge
for adults and a $2 admission
charge for students at Saturday’s
lacrosse game against Navy.

Senior attackman Bill Rienhoff
led the barrage with four of his
game-high five goals, while Dave
Warfield, the Generals’ leading
scorer, added three of his four
goals and three assists.

Skip Lichtfuss and sophomore
Jim Englehart added hat tricks
for W&L in the Generals’ 13th
win of the year.

Goalie Skeet Chadwick left the
game midway through the second
period, allowing Malcolm Hast-
ings and freshman Todd Galvin to
gain valuable playing time.

Emmer praised F&M for their
second-half comeback which at
one time brought the Diplomats
back to trail by only 17-10.

“I think they came down here
awed by our tradition, which is
why they got off to such a shaky
start,” Emmer said. “But once we
pulled our regulars, they rallied
and showed some good stick-
work.”

 

 

 

 

OZ

Announces

The First Annual
Spring Cleaning
SALE

MOST GOODS REDUCED

Hrs. 1:00 to 5:00

11 N. Main

 

 

 

 

Thursday,

Saturday’s opponent, however,
held no fears. Cortland State had
been looking forward toward
their confrontation with W&L
since the day the game was sch-
eduled.,

Several months ago a columnist
in the Cortland campus newspap-
“for the real championship of
er labeled the game the match
college division lacrosse,” pitting
the 1973 college division titlehold-
er against the then only college
division team to play in the
NCAA tournament,

If that was the case, the champ
was crowned early.

The Generals played as near a
perfect fifteen minutes of la-
crosse as could be played in the
opening quarter Saturday.

While Chadwick and defense-
men Jim Farrar, Tom Keigler,
and Rob Lindsey were allowing
Cortland’s attackmen only an oc-
casional catch and throw, W&L
was keeping the Dragon defense
plenty busy.

Bryan Chasney opened the scor-
ing at 3:52 when he took a War-
field feed and fired it past Cort-
land netminder Pete Graham.
Thirty-six seconds later, fresh-
man Mick Kohlenstein made an-
other Warfield pass good, and it
was 2-0.

Ken Miller, who played despite
an injured knee, tallied as he cut
through the middle at 5:11 to up it
to 3-0. Goals by Chasney and John
Lalley later in the quarter gave
W&L a surprising 5-0 edge after
the first fifteen.

“We were more ready to play
at the start of the game than we
had been in past games,” Emmer
said. “We put Cortland behind
early, which we had to do.”

Defense on both sides dominat-
ed in the second quarter. Some
superb goaltending by both Chad-
wick and Graham kept the fans
buzzing for the better part of the
period.

All of the scoring in the quarter
came in the final five minutes.
Two extra-man goals by Ted Bau-
er, one on the “crank” and the
other after a Chasney feed, put
W&L ahead 7-0. Late in the quar-
ter, Paul McGee and Jim Luch-

May 16, 1974

Wa&L to face Navy Saturday

singer got the Dragons on the
scoreboard, and the team went to
the locker room with the Gen-
erals holding a 7-2 advantage.

Cortland scored first after inter-
mission, as Jim Tarnow beat
Chadwick to cut the lead to 7-3.
But that was the closest the visit-
ors would get.

After Lalley intercepted a
clearing attempt, Jack Dudley
scored to make it 8-3. Then Chas-
ney got his third, Miller his sec-
ond, and Bauer his third, again on
the extra-man, to put the game
out of the Dragons’ reach.

Miller added his third tally to
open the fourth quarter. Jim Bur-
nett got Cortland’s final goal, but
goals by Warfield, who finished
with four assists, and Don Carroll
gave W&L their final margin of
victory.

Chadwick, fully recovered from
the virus that plagued him earlier
in the season, played brilliantly in
goal, making 26 saves, several
from the point blank range.

At the other end Graham wasn't
bad either. The Cortland cage cop
turned away a number of shots,
and could have been charged with
robbery on several occasions.

But the key could have been
the W&L defense, which, in set-
tled situations, didn’t allow Cort-
land’s attackmen a single goal.
Not only did Farrar, Lindsey, and
Keigler play good individual de-
fense, but the team defense was
at its best.

Was Emmer nervous about hav-
ing to face his old team?

“Sure I was a bit uptight about
it,’ he said after the game. “But
the team started quickly, which
relieved the pressure just about
as fast.”

As for the tournament......
To the surprise of many, Wash-
ington and Lee drew the number
three seed for the NCAA Lacrosse

Championships, which pits the
Generals against Navy in the
quarterfinals for the second

straight year.

Defending champion Maryland,
who were upset Saturday by
Johns Hopkins 17-13, landed the

(Continued on page 8)

 

, 4

 

 

 

v

SLT UDENT 8!

Make this your headquarters for Good Food

and Service

We have meal tickets at savings to you

SOUTHERN INN

=

 

 

 
 

Thursday, May 16, 1974

THE RING-TUM PHI Page 7

 

elms, Perry to compete in track nationals

Washington and Lee track team
nembers Tony Perry of Waynes-
oro and Phifer Helms of Spar-
tansburg, S. C., have qualified for
this year’s national college divi-
sion meet.

The meet will be held May 29-
31 at Eastern Illinois University
in Charleston, Il.

Helms qualified for the national
meet by setting a new state re-

Baseball team
ends season

at 7-10 mark

by BILL AUSTIN

The baseball Generals ended
the season in a fashion befitting
the up-and-down kind of cam-
paign experienced. They were
rained out. Thus, a spring of pro-
mise spawned a final won-lost
total of 7-10 and expectations for
an improved squad next year.

Nevertheless, the achievements
of the just-completed season
should not be overlooked in the
rush to herald a brighter future
for W&L baseball. Junior co-cap-
tain Don Hathway led the club’s
hitting with a .297 average while
John Rice swatted a respectable
275 and knocked home 11 runs.

Dan Westbrook and Rod Ferr-
andino gave the team two-thirds

have in order to compete consis- |

tently on a college-length sche-
dule. Ferrandino’s 3-4 record
matched last year’s total, though
the junior right hander’s efforts
were impeded and finally defeat-
ed by a bout with mono. West-
brook’s statistics—a 3-3 won-lost
mark, a team-leading 3.30 ERA—
are impressive, and his future
could be even brighter if he mas-
ters a reliable curve. Certainly,
his durability was tested and pro-
ven, for he hurled 60 innings.
Coach Lyles seems to have
brought together a competent in-
field with Hathway at third base,
Bonaventura at shortstop, Otey
second and Rice at first. Bona-
ventura’s fielding was particular-
ly aggressive and sure-handed. He
led the team in fielding assists.
With a tribute to the strengths
must also come an acknowledg-
nent of the shortcomings. Surely,
, dearth of basehits put constant
pressure on the moundsmen and
the defense. While opponents gar-
ered six runs per game, General
iitters swung at an anemic .194
clip, good for a little more than
three tallies a contest. No W&L
yiaver hit more than a single
(Continued on page 8)

NOTICE

The Varsity Club will meet to-
1ight at Ken Seal’s apartment be-
ind the R. E. Lee Episcopal
Church at 8 p.m. All members are
asked to attend to discuss new
members and the outstanding
freshman athlete. Beverage will

provided.

cord of 22 seconds flat in the 220-
vard dash. He also qualified in
the 100-yard dash with a time of
9.8 seconds.

Perry qualified by high jump-
ing 6-6, just 2 inches under the
school record of 6-8 held by Mike
Neer. He won the Virginia Col-
lege Athletic Association (VCAA)
high jump with a leap of 6-3
three-fourths.

Helms, a senior, is a four-year
etterman, captain of the Gen-
erals’ track squad and has won
the state championship in the 220
for the past three years. He ran
the anchor leg on W&L’s state
champion 440 relay team _ that
posted a time of 43.3.

Perry is a freshman and starred
on W&L’s football team last year
at offensive end, grabbing 29
passes for 420 yards and four
touchdowns.

—

 

 

 

Phifer Helms Tony Perry

Cadaver Society wishes to extend its congratulations to Washing-

ton and Lee’s lacrosse team for an outstanding season. As an ex-

pression, Cadaver has contributed $200 to the fund to send W&L’s

contigent—Skeet Chadwick, Ted Bauer, and Coach Jack Emmer—

abroad on the All-America All-Star lacrosse team.
Page 8

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

Letters to the Editor

An administration defense
(Continued from Page 2)
days—and whereas nobody out-
side the administration appears
willing to put an official schluss
on the thing, could I counter Mr.
Gingold’s recent assertion in the
Letters column that Henry Sloss
was given the administrative axe
with information I was given on
good authority that it was in fact
Mr. Sloss’s departmental collea-
gues who did not deem fit to give
him tenure, and on other than

political grounds?

There must be some nice spread
still left in upcountry Bath or Al-
leghany where good ole Caveman
Jeff can yet find happy peer-
grouping, and I do not understand
his compulsion to revert to the
home in Academe which he so
grossed out some years ago before
he outgrew it. If the structure of
this University is such that each

NOTICE
GRADUATING FINANCIAL
AID RECIPIENTS

Financial Aid Summary sheets
must be signed by Wednesday,
May 22, 1974,

order of its necessarily hierarchi-
cal arrangement permits near-
total autonomy to its well-func-
tioning lower echelons (in this in-
stance, the self-regulating depart-
ments and their staffs), I hardly
think it behooves persons now
outside this particular order of
things to hop in offering as ex-
pert advice and seasoned judg-
ment what may be ill-informed
opinion and is in any case pre-
sumptions.

Sincerely,

C. Brockmann

Tennis coach appointed

Washington and Lee has named
Dennis R. Bussard as assistant
basketball coach, head _ tennis
coach and instructor in physical
education.

The 27-year-old Bussard is pre-
sently an assistant basketball
coach at the U. S. Naval Academy
and previously held positions at
his alma mater, Ashland College,
the University of Tennessee, and
at high and junior high schools in
London, Ohio and _ Knoxville,
Tenn.

 

community

 

amie Wlurtm

 

 

115 Main St.

FOR YOUR EXTRA PIECES OF FURNITURE

Varner & Pole

— Lexington, Va.

 

machines, locations,

 

SPARE TIME BUSINESS

Own your own profitable vending business. $200 to $600
monthly earnings possible in your spare time (day or
eve.). NO SELLING. If selected, you will be servicing
company established locations.

OUR COMPANY IS A SUPPLIER OF
NABISCO SNACK ITEMS.
REOUIREMENTS: $1,000 to $5,000 Cash Investment,
(secured by machines and merchandise)

good character, dependable auto, and 6 to 9 spare hours
weekly. Income starts immediately! We supply product,
expansion financing, buy back
option, and professional guidance. If you are sincerely
interested in applying for this genuine opportunity to-
ward financial success, please call or write (include
phone number) for personal interview in your area to:

MR. ROBERT L. ANDERSON
WORLD INDUSTRIES INC.
Executive Suite 303

1919 East 52nd Street
Indianapolis, Indiana 46205
Telephone (317) 257-5767

Thursday, May 16, 1974

Wa&L plays Navy

(Continued from page 6)
top seed, while the Blue
grabbed the second spot.

Many observers expected W&L
to be in one of the top two spots,
since the Generals, at 14-0, are
the only undefeated team in the
nation. The Generals had also
beaten two teams, Virginia and
Navy, who had beaten Hopkins,
which gave further reason to be-
lieve that W&L would be seeded
ahead of the Blue Jays.

However the selection commit-
tee saw it otherwise.

So the Generals will play the
Midshipmen, with former W&L
mentor Dick Szlasa at the con-
trols, for the third time in the
last year.

WE&L, on Chip Tompkins’ me-
morable goal in sudden death
overtime, eliminated Navy in
1973’s quarterfinals 13-12. Earlier
this year, the Generals held the
Middies scoreless for 26 minutes
in the second half en route to a
3-10 win at Annapolis.

Jays

Other first round games match
top seeded Maryland against num-
ber eight Rutgers at College Park;
number two Johns’ Hopkins
against seventh seeded Hofstra in
3altimore; and fourth seeded Cor-
nel] against number five Virginia
in Ithaca, N.Y.

Maryland, Cornell, Virginia, and
tutgers form one bracket, while
the Generals join Hopkins, Navy,
and Hofstra in the other. Quarter:-
finals winners meet in the semi-
finals at the home field of the
higher seeded team. The finals
will be played June 1 at Rutgers.

The college division pairings
look like this:

Baltimore University (8) at
Towson State (1); Roanoke (7) at
Hobart (2); Maryland-Baltimore
County (6) at Cortland State (3);
Adelphi (5) at Washington Col.
lege (4).

Quarterfinal play begins Sat-
urday, with the semis played
May 22. The finals will be played
May 25 at Cortland.

Baseball team ends 7-10 saeson

(Continued from page 7)
homerun, as the team totaled but
five roundtrippers for the season.

Undeniably, the depth-shy pitch-
ing staff and hitting blues pre-
sent significant obstacles to be
overcome if W&L fortunes are
truly bound for an upward turn.
Yet, there is cause for hope. Chip
Costello is the only player to be
lost through graduation from the
current squad, and a year’s ex-
perience should boost confidence
at the plate for returning General
batters. As for pitching, freshman
Bob Carpentier turned in an en-
couraging performance in his
final start and could provide a

needed third arm for the belea-
guered staff. In truth, most of
the first-year pitchers saw little
action over the spring. So it is
tough to evaluate their talents.

% * *

For his contributions to the
team not measured by batting
average or play afield, Chip Cos-
tello has received the Captain
Dick Smith Award. Rod Ferran-
dino has been named as the re-
cipient of the Buck Leslie Pitch.
ing Award.

In addition, Tri-captains have
been named for the 1975 season.
They are Don Hathway, Dave
Otey and John Rice.

 

the schedule you plan.

 

Final exam procedure described

During the week of Monday, May 13 - Friday, May 17, obtain
from the Registrar’s Office an examination envelope for each of
your Classes and a schedule form. The latter is for your use in
planning your examination schedule.

Complete the top portion of each envelope in accordance with

Submit the examination envelope to the instructor for the
course at the first class meeting on or after Monday, May 20.

At the time selected for your examination, go to the place
previously designated by the instructor where you will be given
your envelope and directed to a classroom.

Upon completion, write the pledge at the bottom of the en-
velope, Place the questions and your answers in the envelope
and return to the place of issue,

 

 

 

 

 

The Alexander-Withrow House

3 WEST WASHINGTON STREET

A restored historic landmark with five period-furnished guest suites.
A different experience in overnight hospitality for those who love
fine things. Students may make reservations for their parents and
tour the house from 10-2 Tuesday through Saturday or write Mrs.

Harriet Thomas.

 
The Ring-tum Phi

Washington and Lee University’s Weekly Newspaper

 

Vol. LXXIII

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA, MAY 23, 1974

 

Report studies
area economy

More than 25 per cent of all
money spent in Lexington—$s
million of a $31.4 million total
spending volume—traces back
to Washington and Lee Univer-
sity, according to a _ detailed
statistical study of the univer-
sity’s impact on the local money.

The study also showed that
more than $5 million in personal
income to local residents derives
directly from Washington and
Lee.

Covering the 1971-72 fiscal
vear, the study was conducted
by Dr. Edward C. Atwood Jr.,
dean of W&L’s School of Com-
merce, Economics and Politics,
with four student research as-
sistants.

Their report, which took two
vears to complete, was based on
a standard model developed by
the American Council on Educa-
tion in Washington, D.C. Only
firm economic statistics were in-
cluded in the impact study, with
no reference to social, political,
educational or other intangible
benefits to the city from W&L’s
presence,

Other points brought out in
the study include:

—Half the $8 million spent in
Lexington which can be traced
to W&L was spent directly by
the university itself and by its
employees and_ students. The
other half came partly from re-
spending by local residents of
money the university spent in
the city, and partly from spend-
ing by local businesses specific-
ally in order to supply the uni-
versity with goods and services.

—The university employs 430
persons, and another 400 jobs
locally can be traced directly to
Washington and Lee.

—Local banks have expanded
their credit base by $2.7 million
as a result of Washington and
Lee-related deposits.

In statistical terms, the study
indicated that the city budget is
the only element of the local
economy in which the university
receives more than it gives in
return.

The university, its employees,
and its students accounted for
$663,051 in government spending
in the year of the study, 1971-72,
including schools, police and fire
protection, sanitation, public
works and other government
services. The university account-
ed for only 57 per cent of that
in tax revenues to the city
treasury, $379,457.

The report cautions, however,

that taxes paid to the city by
other elements of the Lexington
economy which benefit directly
from the university’s presence—
people and businesses whose in-
come comes in part from Wé&L
spending — “would, without a
doubt, much more than offset
any disadvantage that might be
indicated.”

A state law, which was intro-
duced and passed with the en-
dorsement of Washington and
Lee, technically permits Lexing-
ton to assess a “service charge”
on the university for property
used as faculty residences. W&L
has about 30 units of that type
faculty housing. But an unex-
pected amendment in the Gen-
eral Assembly last year prohibit-
ed cities from including the cost
of operating public schools in the
formula to fix the “service
charge.” And with school costs
excluded, Lexington officials de-
termined it would cost the city
as much to make the required
assessments and carry out other
state procedures as the city would
receive in revenue.

Residents of faculty housing
do, however, pay the full rate for
city water and sewer service.

The report did not include in
its data the value of scholarships
Washington and Lee _ provides,
automatically, for the sons of
every Lexington and Rockbridge
County resident who attends the
university. This year, the pro-
gram has donated more than
$100,000 to local residents.

The total Washington and Lee
operating budget in 1971-72, the
year covered by the study, was
$6.8 million.

Trustees to tour
fine arts facilities

The upcoming quarterly meet-
ing of W&L’s Board of Trustees
plans to open with a first-hand
evaluation of the  university’s
fine arts facilities. Tomorrow
morning, from 11-12:30 a.m, the
Trustees have scheduled a visit
to the music, art and drama de-
partments. They will be ac-
companied by representatives of
the Administration and by assign-
ed tour leaders. In addition, each
department will be staffed with
a faculty member and two stu-
dents, available to answer and
to provoke questions from the
Board’s members.

  
   

Brahh De
oes

Dr. James Leyburn, retired from Washington and Lee since 1971,

will be one of four recipients of honorary degrees from W&L iv
graduation exercises next Thursday, Other recipients are author
Tom Wolfe, Columbia professor Dr. Robert Paxton, and Virginie
Supreme Court Justice Alex Harman Jr. See story page 5.

Mahan awards given
for students’ writing

The Mahan awards were an-
nounced today by the English
department. The Junior prose
award went to David DeChristo-
pher for his play, War Crimes,
and the sophomore prose award
was won by James McMenamin
for his story, “Reilly.”

Awards for freshman _ prose
and for poetry were not made
this year; in the opinion of the
judges the submitted entries
lacked a necessary final polish.
Although the number of entries
was quite disappointing, the
English department thanks all
contestants for their participa-
tion and urges them to submit
work again next year.

Winning entries become the
property of the English depart-

ATTENTION SENIORS:

Caps and gowns must be pick-
ed up Tuesday afternoon, May
28, in the basement of the Co-op.
All caps and gowns must be re-
turned to the Co-op immediately
following commencement exer-
cises Thursday, May 30.

NOTICE
Ariel will sponsor a_ student
movie in duPont auditorium

Thursday at 8:00. The production
to be shown is “Galate in two-
tone” by Chip Hunter.

ment, but other entries may be
picked up from the English de-
partment secretary in Payne 324.

IFC honors SAE
(Sandy Stradtman
as leader in class

Sandy Stradtman, a member of
Sigma Alpha Epsilon, has been
named as the outstanding fresh-
man fraternity member by the
Interfraternity Council. The
award was revived this year to
honor the freshman who excels
in many different facets of
campus life.

Eight freshmen were nominat-
ed for the honor. Where many
of the other candidates had
equal qualifications, Stradtman
Was thought to possess and ex:
hibit a special type of leadership.
Stradtman was this year’s vice-
president of the freshman class
and will represent the sophomore
class on the UC next year.

Not only is Stradtman an out-
standing leader of the class of
‘77 but is highly regarded and
respected by others in his class
He excels in the academic field
as well, now holding a grade
point average of about 3.8.
THE RING-TUM PHI

 

 

A survey of the Phi

We have run across a survey of Washington and Lee students
which asked those students questions about the performance of
this year’s Ring-ttum Phi. We thought we’d pass on the results of
that survey.

Of the 117 surveys handed out, 116 were returned. The 117th
person said he didn’t want to return the survey for fear of being
too obscene in his criticism of the Phi.

All but two said they read the Phi weekly.

What did the students who were surveyed look for in the pages
of the Phi? There were 51 who sought news (44%), 24 who looked
for editorials and letters to the editor (21%), 20 who sought sports
(17%), and 19 who read the Phi specifically for Ask Traveller.
Traveller would be pleased.

Now comes our shining hour. When asked what they disliked
most about the Phi, the students surveyed listed the “editorial we”
of this column—Paul J. Lancaster—first. Also disliked were lack of
rea] journalism and lack of total coverage.

Those surveyed would like more campus news and features, less
opinion columns.

Three-fifths of those surveyed said they’d like to see the Phi ex-
pand to twice-weekly coverage.

Comments ranged from “I wish it wouldn’t be so conservative,”
to “it’s obviously published by a bourgeois editor,” to “afraid to
express opinion,” to an occasional “editorials are well though out.”

We are not particularly surprised by the survey results. We are
pleased that apparently most everybody surveyed at least looks at
the paper when it is published on Thursdays. We are also pleased
that the students seem to want more news coverage in the Phi. If
nothing else, it presents itself as a goal to which future editors can
aspire much as the complete W&L man aspires to that perfect
tubing run down Goshen Pass.

This writer personally finds merit in the fact that he is the most
disliked part of the Phi, according to the survey. After all, one can-
not be disliked for his editorial opinion if one’s editorial opinion
isn’t read. At least the editorials were read.

This writer is a bit concerned at being labeled “conservative,”
“pourgeois,” and “afraid to express opinion.” The Executive Commit-
tee, the University Council, those interested in the Honor System,
and the faculty might tend to disagree with that last statement, or
at least this writer hopes they would.

—P.J.L.

Parting shots

As the year and our tenure as editor end, it is time we took a
few parting shots.

—To the Executive Committee: Talk of real accomplishment—
important changes in the Honor System, co-education, fine arts de-
velopment, and the like—has been digested into the bowels of W&L
‘bureaucracy, adding to the general constipation of this university’s
progress. This is not to chastise the entire EC; we only criticize the
majority who are using their positions as tickets to “Who’s Who in
American Colleges and Universities.”

—To those in control of the university Honor System: It’s dying.
Save it. If honor be “a nebulous thing” as those supposedly in the
know claim it is, not when it is so nebulous that right cannot be dis-
tinguished from wrong.

—To the student representatives on the University Council: Ex-
jpress the views of the students; don’t vote the way you think the
faculty wants you to vote. It’s seems a trivial point, but time after
time this year a seeming majority of the students on the UC were
downright intimidated by the faculty, whether the faculty was trying
to intimidate or not.

—To the faculty: A motion passed by the faculty at its latest
meeting gave the presiding officer the power to release edited
minutes of those closed meetings. Release those minutes next year;
respect the students’ right to know what goes on around this place.

Finally, we part with a few hopes:

—That the Honor System be treated with the respect it deserves.

—That the issue of coeducation be revived and resolved.

—That the fine arts develop fully on this culturally-starved
campus.

—That W&L advances to and wins the national lacrosse champ-
jonships next weekend at Rutgers.

—P.J.L.

OUTLOOK and REVIEW] |

Thursday, May 23, 1974

Ask Traveller

Q—s there any truth to the rumor that lacrosse causes baldness or,
at the very least, taleum powder burns behind the ears?

A—Of course not, except perhaps after those close scrimmages with
Mr. Sammy’s Tonsorial College of Towson.

Extensive tests conducted last week at the Hagerstown Out-
let in Lexington refuted the old medical myth that overexposure
to lacrosse leads to premature loss of hair among young adults
and Jehovah’s Witnesses. However, it does appear that the sport
is directly linked to an attentuating form of insanity that causes
the victim to misplace his mother and express a keen desire to
stop breathing at the dinner table.

“Maryland seems to be the hardest hit by this disease,” said
Dr. Hoagie Morrill at the Outlet, “due probably to the state’s
traditional tolerance towards the playing of lacrosse and interior
decorating. Now, whether or not the sport leads to insanity alone
or to poor taste in home furnishings as well is not yet known,
but it is interesting to note that one half of all the boys playing
lacrosse at W&L from Chevy Chase have tacky Norman Rockwel!
prints, Jimi Hendrix posters, and bronzed cholostomy bags hung
in their dorm rooms. Now THAT’S bad taste!” Official spokesmen
in Baltimore reject the Outlet findings and, in an act of overt
faith, have publicly endorsed Snoopy posters, calendars, and
other nifty college decorations for the sole use of Maryland boys
and girls away at school.

Nevertheless, Dr. Morrill insists that lacrosse can be extremely
hazardous and warns that the vocal cords are the first sites of
bodily malfunction. “Why, just look at the members of the
W&L lacrosse team,” he said. “So great is their inability to speak
plainly, that such commonplace names as Tom, Dick, Harry, and
Leopold are somehow garbled on the playing field into Weeb,
Skeeter, Chaz, and other equally inarticulate grunts. Heavens,
they all sound like Eliza Doolittle swallowing marbles.”

Historically, the “heartbreak of lacrosse’ made its first
appearance in this country when Brother LeRoy, a Dominican
monk and part-time insurance adjuster for Allstate, introduced
the rugged game to the plains Indians, who up to this point
had favored canasta at a penny a point. Lacrosse caught on like
Michigan tree moss and before the hunting season ended every
red-blooded savage with any moxie at all was facing-off and
moving his pick, (not in front of the children, of course). Brother
LeRoy, knowing which side his crucifix was nailed, returned
East and sold the rights of the game to Parker Brothers in 1658.
Meanwhile, though, disaster struck. The lacrosse-minded war-
riors on the plains began to feel listless and out of sorts, and,

despite heavy doses of castor oil and St. Joseph aspirin, took up
crocheting and needle-point. Thus, the game of lacrosse and its
accompanying plague nevermore darkened a Western sunset.
Not surprisingly, canasta reasserted itself as a frontier favorite,
but this time at a nickle a point.

And now, the Middle Atlantic region, (thought originally to
be a Dutch practical joke), feels the weight of the Redman’s
Burden. A special serum, made from distilled gatorade, is cur-
rently being tested on white rats and J.V. goalies in the distant
hope that the menace of lacrosse can be halted in our life-time,
or at least before the Hopkins game. In the meantime, Dr. Morrill
suggests that lacrosse enthusiasts find other types of divertment,
such as canasta at a quarter a point, just to liven things up.

Q—But surely there must be a cure now.
A—There is. Take up a collection and send Jack, Skeet, T-Bear and
the entire state of Maryland to Australia for good.

THE RING-TUM PHI

The Ring-tum Phi is published on Thursdays during the college year.
It is printed by the Journalism Laboratory Press, Washington and Lee
University. The mailing address is Box 899, Lexington, Virginia 24450.
Entered as second class matter September 29, 1946, at the Post Office,
Lexington, Virginia 24450, under the act of March 3, 1879. Subscription
rates: $6.00 for the school year, $3.00 for the semester.

   

PAUL J. LANCASTER ANDREW J. A. CHRISS

Editor-in-chief Business Manager
ee re re ree Se Jess Reeves
eS FRIIS Bi i ie David Lee
nk ee ee ee ee re Bill Austin
eo A Sr rr ee ee Bill Robinson
Bere Be 3 ai sk Bt Se eh eee Rome Scott
SS Se Dave Finnell, John Killpack, Chuck Alt
CORON 2..54aa:; Robert Cook, W. Patrick Hinely, Bill Flesher,

Paul Morella, Tom Rittenburg, David Finnell, John Ellis

 

 
 

 

 

 

Thursday, May 23, 1974

Letters to the Editor

On the exchange program with Virginia Union

From the administration

Sir:

This letter is in response to
Mr. Reeves’s article criticizing
the exchange program with Vir-
ginia Union. Let me begin by
agreeing with Mr. Reeves’s re-
marw that, “In the last analysis
it is up to our Admissions Office
to find their own competent
black recruits.” It is, indeed, the
responsibility of Washington
and Lee to continue to recruit
degree candidates from among
the able members of ethnic and
racial minorities but this pro-
gram cannot fulfill that objective;
the exchange agreement specifi-
eally precludes an exchange stu-
dent from transferring to the
host institution.

Our purpose in the Virginia
Union exchange is, partly, to add
another dimension to our cir-
riculum since Virginia Union
offers programs in urban studies,
social welfare, and elementary
education which Washington and
Lee cannot offer. Virginia Union
also affords our students the op-
portunity to sample life on an
urban campus with a predomi-
nantly black student body; we
recognize that some _ students,
for valid reasons, may want such
an opportunity and, at the same
time, desire to spend most of
their four undergraduate years on
the Washington and Lee campus;
the exchange agreement allows
them to do so without severing
their connection with Washing-
ton and Lee. Finally, the ex-
change may bring some black
women to the Washington and
Lee campus, functioning as our

present exchange programs do in
ading some diversity to our stu-
dent body. I might add that Vir-
ginia Union’s character as a pri-
vate institution affords it more
flexibility in entering into such
arrangements.

I do not think a Letter-to-the-
Editors column is an appropriate
place to argue the complex ques-
tion of measuring quality in edu-
cation. I would simply remark
that, under long-standing faculty
regulations, a Washington and
Lee student may receive as many
as 12 credits towards his Wash-
ington and Lee degree from sum-
mer school work undertaken at
any other fully accredited four-
year institution and a_ student
transferring to Washington and
Lee may receive as many as 87
credits towards his Washington
and Lee degree for work under-
taken at another fully accredited
institution. The exchange agree-
ment simply facilitates a possi-
bility that already exists for our
students while offering reciprocal
opportunities to some Virginia
Union students,

Sincerely yours,

Robert W. McAhren

Associate Dean of the College
Exchange Program Officer

From a freshman

Siz

I would like to go on record
as opposing the recent article by
editor-elect Reeves concerning
the new exchange program with
Virginia Union. I feel that his
analysis of the program was very
narrow.

First of all, Mr. Reeves’ main

 

Ed. note—Last week, a let-
ter to the editor printed on
this page attacked a supposed
“independent conspiracy” at
Washington and Lee. The sig-
nature atached to the letter
said “Beau Dudley.”

Beau Dudley did not write
that letter.

Rather, the letter was writ-
ten as an apparent joke, a
joke which had the intention
of making Mr. Dudley look
like the fool which he cer-
tainly is not. The only fool
is the letter-writer.

We extend our apologies to
Mr. Dudley for printing the
letter, although it was not
directly our fault. The letter
was received much as any
other letter in the Phi office.
We ran it, assuming that the
atmosphere of honor which
supposedly encircles this cam-
pus would deem the letter-
writer as the person whose
name was attached to the bot-
tom of the letter.

 

With that letter, W&L’s
atmosphere of honor became a
little more polluted.

Mr. Dudley’s reply

To whom it may concern,

I have virtually no idea to
whom I am addressing this
letter, so excuse me if I don’t
get the point across.

In short, your letter in last
week’s paper exhibited so
little intelligence that I don’t
think I’ll waste the time to
write a lengthy rebuttal. I
will say only that fortunately
my friends and those who
know me realized, for obvious
reasons, that I could not have
written the letter. I can only
guess at what you were at-
tempting to accomplish, and
in any case you have my
sympathy for your condition
of mind.

Sincerely,
(the real) Beau Dudley ’74

 

 

THE RING-TUM PHI

Page 3

 

premise concerning the ability
of Virginia Union students to
perform at W&L is not sound.
One cannot deny the empirical]
data that Mr. Reeves presents but
one can question his operational
definition for college achieve-
ment: performance on a _ test
taken in high school. Many educa-
tors believe that test scores such
as SAT scores are not an adequ-
ate measure of college perform-
ance. In fact there are probably
students who did poorly on SAT’s
and are doing well here and
vice versa. If Mr. Reeves is able
to say how any given student,
much less a group of students,
will do at W&L, then I believe
that he should offer his services
to the Admissions office.

Another point that Mr. Reeves
makes is that by allowing these
students to come here, the Uni-
versity has nothing to gain and
it may even hurt itself. By per-
mitting any student to study
here, the University gains the
input that only that individual
can contribute. The other part
of Mr. Reeves’ argument sug-
gests that W&L should act only
towards its own benefit. This
suggestion for personal utilitar-
ianism seems to reject the role

Washington and

of W&L as a contributor to the
community of which it is a mem-
ber.

In closing, I would suggest that
Mr. Reeves should reconsider his
analysis of the exchange pro-
gram with Virginia Union. His
initial analysis appears to be ex-
tremely limited, at least to this
reader.

Sincerely,
Stephen Q. Giblin ’77

From a senior

With only ten days until
graduation, I, a black student at
Washington & Lee, could have
ignored Jess Reeves’ polemic or
analysis concerning the upcom-
ing exchange program with Vir-
ginia Union University.

I am unable to ignore such
slanderous statements leveled at
a black institution of the caliber
of Virginia Union without some
response. Regretfully, the article
reflects the fears and prejudices
of a mind so blighted by bigotry
that it refuses to report the
situation with any degree of
fairness.

Mr. Reeves used statistical data
out of context to create an un-

(Continued on page 8)

Lee University

Schedule of Events

COMMEN

CEMENT

1974

WEDNESDAY, MAY 29

11:00a.m. Baccalaureate service.
In Letitia Pate Evans Hall.

12:30 p.m. Annual luncheon for graduates, their families and
guests, faculty, and alumni, sponsored by the
Washington and Lee University Alumni Associa-
tion. On the Front Lawn.

9:00 p.m. President and Mrs. Huntley’s reception for gradu-
ates and their families.
In the President’s Home. (Black tie optional.)

9:30 p.m. Reception and dance.
In Letitia Pate Evans Hall.

THURSDAY, MAY 30

9:00a.m. Reserve Officers’ Training Corps commissioning

ceremony. Speaker :

In Lee Chapel.

Gen. Arch A, Sproul, III, ’37.

11 :00a.m, Graduation ceremonies. Speaker: President Robert
Edward Royall Huntley.

On the Front Lawn

Questions may be addressed to the Parent’s Advisory Council
Washington and Lee University, Lexington, 24450, or to the
University News Service (telephone 703/463-3015),

 
Page 4

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

Pusey first winner of
Mason endowment

Dr. William W. Pusey HI, a
German teacher at Washington
and Lee for 35 years and former
Gean of the college and acting
president of the university, has
deen named the first holder of
the recently established 8. Blount
Mason chair.

The appointment was made
and announced by Washington
and Lee’s board of trustees. The
endowed chair was established in
recognition of bequests made
through two trusts created by
Mason and his wife. Washington
and Lee’s share of the trusts
totaled nearly a half-million dol-
Jars, which the Masons directed
should be used to strengthen fac-
ulty salaries.

Dr. Pusey served as dean of
the college, Washington and Lee’s

liberal-arts and sciences division,
from 1960 to 1971. He was act-
ing president as well as dean
from the time Dr. Fred C. Cole
resigned in 1967 until his suc-
cessor, Robert E. R. Huntley, as-
sumed office Feb. 5, 1968.

Dr. Pusey is head of the Ger-
man department and_ teaches
courses in comparative literature
and in Russian language as well
as German. He is also director
of W&L’s Chinese studies pro-
gram, which he began to develop
almost as soon as he left the
deanship three years ago.

Dr. Pusey is the only teacher
at Washington and Lee ever to
have received two “Ring-tum
Phi” Awards, given annually by
the student newspaper.

Letters to the Editor

Calyx criticized
Sir:

I wish to congratulate the
Calyx staff for once again suc-
ceeding in surprising me where
1 thought that there was no room
left for surprise. I had conclud-
ed that last year’s Calyx, albeit
in all its esoteric banality, was
unsurpassable in irrelevance. As
is sometimes the case, I was
proved wrong. This years Calyx,
admittedly chock-full of quite ad-
mirable photography, has reach-
ed the pinnacle of functional
triviality. I have often heard of
going from the ridiculous to the
sublime, but to go from the
ridiculous to the more ridicul-

ous is just that.
In Artsy-Craftsy Awe,
I Remain,
Jack E. Altman ITI

Criticism criticized

Calyx ed. note: Although I
shouldn’t even give your letter
the dignity of a reply, I thank
you for your sincere thought-
ful critricism. I also appreciat-
ed the aid and suggestions you
provided for me and my staff
throughout the year. I must
say, however, that it amazes
me that your criticism came
before I hardly had a chance
to look at the thing myself.

See you in the afterlife,
D.B.H.

GOING

Washingion and Lee University

#onkstore

Let’s Go: Europe 1974

—HARVARD STUDENT AGENCIES

Michelin Guides
Very Special Resorts

BERKSHIRE TRAVELER

Turn Right at the Fountain

eeeceeeeeoeeeocesce*eeceseesceseeoseeceeeeeeeceeeese

PLACES

—OAKEST CHAPMAN

SC eSSeSeSeSeSeeevreee oe eer aveveotcanseseenoeceetoeeo

   

Thursday, May 23, 1974

 

Dr. William W. Pusey Il

 

ROTC not in danger

By TOM RITTENBURG

Ever since the ending of the
draft two years ago, local rumors
have been predicting the demise
of the Military Science depart-
ment of Washington and Lee,
predicting an end to the school’s
Reserve Officer Training Corps
program.

Those rumors were seemingly
substantiated last March when
the Pentagon announced a desire
to eliminate all college ROTC pro-
grams with fewer than 17 juniors
enrolled.

This year, 15 juniors are en-
rolled in the W&L ROTC pro-
gram.

Col. Louis McFadden, professor
of Military Science, says that
while the W&L ROTC program is

Paul’s Bike Shop

11 N. New St., Staunton
Phone 886-1310
PAUL Now Accepting All
BIKE REPAIRS at

Sears’ Lexington Store

Pick-Up Every Wednesday
Returned On Wednesday.
Also New 10 Speeds Batavus
Bikes For Sale.

 

Wendell’s ©
Barber Shop —

OPEN 9.6
9 South Jefferson

Closed Wednesday

being reviewed by the Pentagon,
so to are all other campus ROTC
units.

According to Col. McFadden,
the criteria for terminating a
campus ROTC unit are all in-
clusive. The army will review
not only the quantity of officers
produced by a unit, but also the
quality. The performance of the
Wé&L cadet corps at summer
camp and in the service after
graduation, and the prestige and
support of the school are all
taken into consideration.

The quantity of cadets at W&L
has been decreasing in recent
vears, but, according to Col. Me-
Fadden, the quality remains high.
He says the school has also been
continuing its support of the
ROTC program.

Col. McFadden says next year’s
class will increase in size over
that of this year’s, and two new
officers are being assigned to
W&L ROTC unit. He says pros-
pects for continuation of ROTC
at W&L in the future are bright.

 

 
 

 

Hamric and Sheridan
JEWELERS
Watch and Jewelry Repair
and Engraving & Class Rings
463-2022

 

 

East Lexington
Grocery

Beer — Ice — Gas

Party Supplies — Snacks
ABC No. 2078—8 a.m.-10 p.m.
SHOP FOR SUNDAY
We Sell & Deliver Kegs
Open 7 days a week
EVENING DINNER

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
Thursday, May 23, 1974

 

to be awarded

honorary degrees

A Lexington native and a
former dean at Washington and
Lee University are among four
men who will receive honorary
degrees next week from the uni-
versity at graduation.

Dr. Robert O. Paxton, profes-
sor of modern European history
at Columbia University, and Dr.
James Graham Leyburn, dean at
Washington and Lee from 1947 to
1956 and sociology professor until
his retirement in 1972, will re-
ceive the doctor of letters de-
gree,

Also receiving the doctor of
letters degree will be Thomas K.
Wolfe, a leader in the “new”
journalism and author of “Elec-
tric Kool-Aid Acid Test,” “Radical
Chie” and other books. Justice
Alex M. Harman Jr. of the Su-
preme Court of Virginia will re-
ceive the honorary doctor of laws
degree.

Paxton, Wolfe and Harman are
graduate of Washington and Lee.
Leyburn is a graduate of Duke,
Princeton and Yale Universities.

The W&L graduation, conclud-
ing the institution’s 224th year,
will take place Thursday (May
30) at 11 am. on the historic
Front Campus. Degrees will be
awarded to 392 students—80 in
the School of Law and 312 in
the College or School of Com-
merce, Economics and Politics.
By long-standing tradition the
commencement address will be
delivered by W&L President
Robert E. R. Huntley.

Paxton is the son of Mr. and
Mrs. M. W. Paxton Sr. of Lexing-
ton. In his senior year at Wash-
ington and Lee he was named a
Rhodes Scholar and studied at
Oxford University from 1954 un-
til 1956. He earned his Ph.D. from
Harvard University in 1963.

Paxton taught at Berkeley and
the State University of New
York at Stony Brook before join-

ing the faculty at Columbia in
1969.
He is the author of “Parades

and Polities at Vichy,” published
by the Princeton University Press
in 1966, and “Vichy France: Old
Guard and New Order,” publish-
ed in 1972 by Alfred A. Knopf.
“Vichy France’—which by co-
incidence was dedicated in part
to Paxton’s fellow honorary de-
gree recipient Leyburn— was
translated into French and pub-
lished last year in Paris.

Paxton is currently working on
a textbook history of Europe
since 1914, with publication
ylanned next spring.

As a W&L student he was vice
president of the student body
and was elected to membership
in Phi Beta Kappa and Omicron
Delta Kappa leadership frater-
nity. He was a member of Sigma
\jpha Epsilon social fraternity
as well.
resident of
taught at

Leyburn,
Martinsburg,

now a
W. Va.,

Hollins College and Princeton
University before joining the
clology faculty at Yale in 1927.
Twenty vears later he left Yale
for Washington and Lee to be-
come dean of the university. In
1955, he concluded he would have
to choose between teaching and
administrative duties, and left
the deanship to become head of
the sociology and anthropology
department at W&L.

He is the author of the classic
“Haitian People,” winner in 1941
of the Anisfield-Wolf Award as
the best work of the year in race
relations; “Handbook of Ethno-
graphy,” “World Minority Prob-
lems,” and “The Scotch-Irish: A
Social] History,’ Leyburn has also
written a large number of schol-
arly articles and reviews.

As dean at W&L, Leyburn pro-
posed a 10-point plan for aca-
demic development at the Uni-
versity which in large measure
guided Washington and _ Lee
over the subsequent quarter-cen-
tury.

When he retired from teaching,
the Norfolk Virginia-Pilot com-
mented in an editorial: “He rais-
ed scholastic standards and re-
cruited distinguished teachers.
‘The Leyburn Spirit’ inspired a
generation of students and
brought W&L to the front rank
of small men’s schools.”

In retirement Leyburn is
working on another book, con-
tinues to write articles and re-
views, and delivers frequent pub-
lic lectures. A former president
of the Rockbridge Historical So-
ciety, Leyburn has also recently
completed an introduction to a
reprint of Henry Boley’s 1936
anecdotal history “Lexington in
Old Virginia,” to be re-issued
later this year by Washington
and Lee.

Wolfe is the author of “The
Pump House Gang” as well as
“Electric Kool-Aid Acid Test” and
“Radical Chic and Mau-Mauing
the Flak-Catchers.” An extensive
study by Wolfe, “The New Journ-
alism,” which also includes an
anthology he co-edited, will be
published next month by Harper
& Row.

Wolfe was editor of “Shenan-
doah,” Washington and _ Lee’s
literary quarterly, his junior and
senior years. He was also sports
editor of the student newspaper
and humor magazine while a
WE&L student.

Justice Harman received his
law degree from Washington and
Lee in 1944. After graduation he
began practicing law in Pulaski,
and in 1964 was elected circuit
court judge there. He was named
to the Virginia Supreme Court
in 1969,

Commencement activities will
formally begin Wednesday with
a baccalaureate service in Evans
Hall at 11 a.m. The speaker will
be Dr. Louis W. Hodges.

 

THE RING-TUM PHI

Page 5

 

Traveller revealed!

Yes, fans, W&L’s answer to “Dear 5
Dave Finnell, seen here in his stable-away-from-stable.
the cunning author of “Ask Traveller’ in addition to
the Wild Euell Gibbons.”

 

SSL a

 

 

Se

 

 

 

~ —— ——

The gang at the Co- -OP
wishes to thank the students

of Washington and Lee

 

 

for their patronage this year
Have a good summer.

 

Secretariat” is none other than
Finnell is
“Stalking
—Photo by Robinson

~

 

tell ddr, -i--ida--ita-r-ilda-~ie iti al te htt taal aaa ala tar titl—tathi—n —s—thsth. ln thas —h-he—i

hl lta sll la la

ltl

 
Page 6

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

Sports opinion

 

By BILL AUSTIN

Ring-tum Phi Sports Editor

lve come to the end of my
stint as resident hack for Ring-
tum Phi sports, and long for a
way to close out my career with
suitable aplomb. To be sure, I’m
not one who should venture gen-
eralization about sport and life,
or sport and writing, or sport
nd anything. Quite honestly,
‘ve had enough difficulty de-
ining sport on its own terms.
At any rate, much of what I’ve
written about this year has
merely scratched the surface of
sport in acknowledgment of
scores, performers, turning-
points, in an attempt to give an
“opjective” description of a par-
ticular event.

mh bed 95

Yet, I’m much intrigued by the
creative latitude inherent in writ-
ing of sport. For instance, a base-
ball game can be the stuff of a
tersely worded summary or of
significant literature. Such is the
case with Robert Coover’s The
Universal Baseball Association,
Inc., J. Henry Waugh, Prop., a
novel which traces the fall of a
J. Henry Waugh, sole proprietor
of the UBA, a baseball league
in which the hitting, pitching and
fielding is but the toss of three
dice (that’s 216 different combi-
nations). The eight-team affair
is staffed with players the likes
of Long Lew Lydell and Syca-
more Flynn (the names make
the men) and passesses its own
history, kept in the 40-volumed
“Book,” a distinctive folklore,
and naturally, a pantheon of
heroes. Damon Rutherford is the
star of the 56th season, a rookie
pitcher whose special skill and
poise earn him a special place
in Waugh’s heart. Surely he is
the golden boy who will lift the
league from its prolonged
slump.

 

Alas, the figure of salvation is
felled by a pitch to his head,
and life for the league—and for
Henry Waugh—loses its fineness,
its meaning. Henry attains a mea-
sure of vengeance when, by

tampering with the dice, he se-
cures the death of Jock Casey,
the hurler who’d tossed the fatal
ball to young Damon. However,
the act violates the rules of the
game, and as a result, the Pro-
prietor plunges into a shadowy
realm of madness.

The creatures of his imagina-
tion then take control, forgetful
of their Creator, suspicious of the
nature and value of the game
to which they devote their be-
ings. While the novel ends with
an affirmation of the sport—
“it’s just what it is...” Waugh’s
fite is much less hopeful. He
appears to have forfeited his
identity to the game of his own
making. In a real sense, God is

Thursday, May 23, 1974

undone by fate. Heady stuff for
a baseball novel!

Coover’s book is one of several
notable works perused in Dr,
Ray’s spring seminar, an English
course entitled Literature and
Sport. When first announced as
an academic offering, the class
drew more than its share of
guffaws from professors and stu-
dents alike. Some hinted that the
seminar would be more _ favor-
ably received if housed in
Doremus Gym than in Payne
Hall. Then there was the prob-
lem of where to place the train-
ing-meal table...

On the contrary, sport litera-
ture has been treated seriously,
intensely, by the course partici-

On mixing sports with literature

pants. Dr. Ray has encouraged
students to look beyond playing-
field or locker-room scenes to
some sort of statement about
man’s need for his games. On the
other hand, symbols haven’t been
forced upon students in a rush
for profundity. The observant
now know that George in The
Year Boston Won the Penant was
none other than George Scott,
slick-fielding first sacker more
recently traded to Milwaukee, In
truth, “Sport and Literature” has
effected the same balance be-
tween statistic and mystery that
gives baseball its continuity, its
longevity. Score it a triumph for
the seminar in a clean sweep of
its critics.

 

Don Carroll (26) attempts to feed Bryan Chasney in Saturday's win over Navy, The Generals meet

Johns Hopkins this Saturday.

 

WLUR
91.5

on your FM dial

LEE

%

FOR SALE
1967 SAAB
station wagon, good condi-

tion, radial tires, complete
shop manual—$500.00

See Larry Mann, The Black-
smith Shop — Randolph St.
or call 463-4293

sbebentdertente steht seseste reteset se esto Beebe eee Be bers

The First National Bank ;

of Lexington
has special checking accounts for students

Teelocferfeoferfecferye

 

 

7

 

 

(=

STUDENT §!

Make this your headquarters for Good Food

and Service

We have meal tickets at savings to you

SOUTHERN INN

>

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
(CARES ap AE a

Thursday, May 23, 1974

Generals meet Johns Hopkins

in bid for NCAA lacrosse

By BILL FLESHER

Washington and Lee exhibited
a new angle of the magician’s
act Saturday, showing nothing up
its sleeve for three quarters,
then pulling out a “Rave” and
a rally in the final period for
an 11-9 win over Navy in a
quarterfinal game in the NCAA
University Division Lacrosse
Championships.

Dave “Rave” Warfield, who
had been a nemesis to the Mid-
shipmen twice before, assumed
the role again, scoring four and
adding two assists, All but one
of Warfield’s goals came in the
final fifteen minutes.

Warfield sparked a_ five-goal
outburst which brought W&L
from a 7-5 third quarter defecit
to a 10-7 lead midway through the
final period. Navy closed the gap
to 10-9 late in the game, but
Warfield’s final goal with :14
left sealed the Middies’ fate.

In the three games against
Navy over the past two seasons,
Warfield has scored 13 goals and
six assists, including a five goal,
four assists performance in the
13-10 W&L win at Annapolis
earlier this season.

“I can’t explain why David
does as well as he does against
Navy,” W&L head coach Jack
Emmer said after the game. “It’s
not really any sort of abnormal]
performance for him, since he
gets five to six points every
game.”

It was a move by Emmer
which sprung Warfield and the
Generals on their fourth quarter
tear.

“IT didn’t think any of their
middies could handle David, so
we put Roger Rydell! in the game
on attack and pulled David out.
Then we ran a middie out, force-
ing one of their midfielders to
play David as he came in.”

Warfield gave the Middies’ mid-
fielders fits. In a two-minute

Dry Cleaning

Linen Service

WE DELIVER

Storage & Free Moth Proofing

The Middie goalie makes a save and passes the ball down field in last
Generals came out on top, 11-9, after a considerable surge near the end of the game. W&L faces
Hopkins this weekend.

span during the fina] period, he
scored two goals and fed Ted
Bauer and Bill Rienhoff for two
others.

“Somehow David always comes
up with a big game against
Navy,” Emmer said. “Why only
David knows. Maybe it’s Szlasa,
but that’s only a guess.”

For Navy coach Dick Szlasa,
it marked the third time his
troops lost to W&L since he left
Lexington two years ago. And,
for the second straight year,
Navy had been eliminated from
the tournament by Washington
and Lee.

“They played beter this game
than they did against us earlier

UNIVERSITY
CLEANERS

Reliable Service In

Shirts Laundered

Clothing Repair

463-3622

THE RING-TUM PHI

Page 7

 

in the year,” Emmer said. “Their
defense was excellent for three
quarters, and they controlled the
ball much better.”

Emmer credited Szlasa’s tactic
to go with six defensemen when
W&L was on the attack as a big
part of Navy’s early success.

“They had used this when they
beat Johns Hopkins, and it work-
ed well for them there,’ Emmer
said. “It caused us to mishandle
some situations, and it threw our
offense off a bit.”

Navy jumped out to a quick
2-0 lead on goals by Mike Dow
and Joe Avveduti. W&L came
back to tie it in the fourth
minute, as Warfield and Ralph
Jaugher tallied within 34 sec-
onds of each other. Marty Ma-
son’s goal at 11:57 gave Navy a
3-2 lead, which they held until
the second period.

Bryan Chasney and Navy’s
Tom Venier traded goals early
in the quarter to make it 4-3.
Then Rienhoff and Bauer scored
within 35 seconds to give the
Generals their first lead at 5-4.
However Bauer’s goal, an extra
man tally, was the last W&L
got for 27 minutes.

The Middies tied the game at
5-5 when Avveduti scored his sec-
ond with :40 left in the first half.
Davy Bayly and Avveduti got
the only goals in the third period,
and, with only one quarter left,
We&L trailed 7-5.

“Navy controlled us in the
third quarter,” Emmer said. “We
were a little slow in the period,

finals

      

Saturday’s game. The

and they were able to keep the
ball most of the time.”

But the fourth quarter held no
silence in store for W&L. Bauer
got his second extra man goal at
2:20 to cut the defecit to 74.
Then Warfield scored his second
on the play Emmer had designed
during a television time out to
tie the score at 7-7. Eighteen sec-
onds later, Bauer took a War-
field pass and scored another
extra man goal to put the Gen-
erals in front 8-7. Rienhoff, at
7:06, converted a Warfield feed
into a goal to make it 9-7, and at
7:29, Warfield got his third to
give W&L a 10-7 lead.

But Navy wasn’t through yet.

Bayly scored his second goal,
breaking a 17-minute Navy
scoring drought, with four

minutes left to cut the W&L lead
to 10-8. Then Jeff Long scored at
the end of a fast break, and
Navy was within a goal with
it leg.

“I had thought of last year
when Navy came back when it
when it was 10-7,” Emmer said,
“And, when it was 10-9, I knew
the game could be decided by the
one faceoff.”

Bauer, who had not done well
all day in the faceoff department,
was sent out to take the face-
off against Navy’s Bill Ayres, the
Middies’ faceoff specialist. This
time, however, Bauer got the ball,
and the Generals took the driv-
er’s seat.

Setting up a circle around the

(Continued on page 8)
Page 8

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

Thursday, h

lay 23, 1974

Letters to the editor

On the exchange program

(Continued from page 3)

fair impression concerning Vir-
e:nia Union’s desirability as a
rember in the exchange pro-
‘am. Taking advantage of a
nased aptitude test, and several
tudies have documented the fact
that SAT is biased against all
non-whites, Mr. Reeves raised
terrible inferences as to the value

intellectual interchange with
tudents from Virginia Union. He
has distorted the facts.

Oo ts

‘

2 On

There are comparable scores
on the SAT between W&L stu-
cents and Union students. The
tatistic cited by Mr. Reeves is
an average determined by sey-
val factors he did not cite. First,
the test itself is a white culture
Sound test. Secondly, there are
more students attending Union
tnan W&L. And thirdly, as any-
one would know SAT scores are
»rimarily a predictive measure
which by no means is conclusive

QO

WP

@m

something that ven his course
(Comparative Guide to American
Colleges) refuses to do. He has
assigned value to the creditability
of the school based on SAT
tests.

Jess reveals in his article that
a man is determined by his
ability to pass a test, and not by
his desire to learn or his willing-

ness to study. Clearly, he knows
very little about humanity, and
black people especially. SAT
scores are only indicators of

potential academic success. They
are not valid justifications for
tue imposition of inferior treat-

ment and less than human con-
sideration.
Jess, Virginia Union, not un-

like Washington & Lee, is a fine
institution which has prided it-
self on academic excellence.
Union has always attempted to
meet the needs of its students
just as W&L has attempted. But
because Union is unable to teach
the “privileged” it does not have

 

 

proof of an individual’s ability the same W&L professes to have
to do college work. Mr. Reeves legitimacy. Washington and
takes it upon himself to do Lee is a “fine” institution be-
°
community

 

emice Wlurtm

 

 

€02600999000988939580390999908999299903885980808088098

€
e
e
e
e
ae
; 115 Main St.
e

e

FOR YOUR EXTRA PIECES OF FURNITURE

Varner & Pole

— Lexington, Va.

 

machines, locations,

ward financial success,

 

SPARE TIME BUSINESS

Own your own profitable vending business. $200 to $600
monthly earnings possible in your spare time (day or
eve.). NO SELLING. If selected, you will be servicing
company established locations.

OUR COMPANY IS A SUPPLIER OF
NABISCO SNACK ITEMS.
REQUIREMENTS: $1,000 to $5,000 Cash Investment,
(secured by machines and merchandise)

good character, dependable auto, and 6 to 9 spare hours
weekly. Income starts immediately! We supply product,
expansion financing,
option, and professional guidance. If you are sincerely
interested in applying for this genuine opportunity to-
please call or write (include
phone number) for personal interview in your area to:

MR. ROBERT L. ANDERSON
WORLD INDUSTRIES INC.
Executive Suite 303

1919 East 52nd Street
Indianapolis, Indiana 46205
Telephone (317) 257-5767

buy back

 

cause whites have the power to
define what “fine” is. But for
me to defend Union would be
almost ridiculous as your attack-
ing it. So, if you are worried
about “what they will ship to
Lexington,” I suggest you wait
around and see. It might just
shock you to know that there
are brilliant black students at-
tending black institutions, or that
there are brilliant black students.

I am appalled at your article’s
tactlessness. You might just as
well have said, “Lets keep them
in their places,” and saved some
typing space. Who are you to
judge people you have never met?
Indeed, the way you interpret
facts, who are you to judge? For
four years I have had to tolerate
such injustices done to black
people by those who show such
shortsightedness, and who at the
same time claim to be crusad-
ing for academic excellence. Are
you altogether sure you know
fhat academic excellence really
is, Jess?

To the students and faculty of
Virginia Union I must apologize
for the tactless error made by
the prospective editor of our
newspaper for next year. I have
tried to fight attitudes such as
his since I have been here. I
have tried to show such students
that black people are as capable
as they are. However, I could

W&L to meet Hopkins

(Continued from page 7)
Navy goal, the Generals passed
the ball away from Navy’s con-
stant double and triple team ef-
forts to get the ball. Then War-
field found himself wide open in
front of the goal, took a John
Lalley feed, and fired it past
Navy goalie Ray Finnegan to
clinch the win.

Again W&L netminder Skeet
Chadwick was superb, making 24
saves, Emmer called Chadwick,
along with the Generals’ defen-
sive trio of Jim Farrar, Rob
Lindsey, and Tom Keigler as “the
reason we stayed in the game
when our offense wasn’t play-
ing so well.”

The Generals now move to the
semifinals to face Johns Hopkins,
the tournament’s second seed. In
the 1972 quarterfinals, the last
meeting of the two schools,
Hopkins started slowly but came
on to down W&L 11-5.

Saturday’s game is at Home:
wood Field in Baltimore. Game
time is 2 p.m. Admission is $3
for adults, and $2 for students.

not always cure in four years the
mind disease which has resided
in some of them for 20 or more
years. Rest assured that the black
students I leave behind welcome
your coming and are also truly
sorry that such racism - still
exists within this “noble” insti.
tuition. They, as well as myself,
will uphold your reputation
against those who are blinded
by predjudices as much as we
can. But, of course that burden,
if indeed it is a burden, is right-
fully yours. So come to W&L
despite the Jess Reeves’.

And as for you Jess, why not
sign up for the program? I have
a feeling boredom will not be
one of the things you will have
to worry about.

Respectfully,
Johnny L. White, ’74

Criticizing Calyx
Sir,

Well, the yearbooks are out
again and look what we have
for the third year in a row—a
jumble of such pop-art objects
of aesthetic beauty as an air
conditioner filter, a group of
tangled rubber pipes, a half-page
layout of bolts, two people (sex
unrecognizable) practicing one of
the more complicated positions
from the Kama Sutra, and some
photographs of a truly incompre-
hensible nature. Perhaps my re-
action is simply a reflection of
my poor taste. But I don’t think
so.

Now really, does this annual
include what its editor says it
does on page 156. He claims that
it gives a glimpse of “a bit of
everybody ...the topsider in his

khakis, the politician in seer-
suckers, the freak in shredded
patches,” and certainly those

terms do represent the extremes
of the spectrum of the W&L
student body.

However, to say that this year-
book of 1974 does not portray
the “spectrum” is an understate-
ment, Aside from the group pic-
tures of the fraternities, which
I suppose the editor had to in-
clude, there is nary a mention
of Greek life in the rest of the
annual. As much as some here
enjoy denying it, the frats do
play some small part in Wé&L
life.

A critic of what I have said
might challenge me to compose a
better Calyx. Frankly I think
anyone could make a better one.

Sincerely yours,
Barney Skelton, ’75

 

The Alexander-Withrow House

3 WEST WASHINGTON STREET

A restored historic landmark with five period-furnished guest suites.
A different experience in overnight hospitality for those who love
fine things. Students may make reservations for their parents and
tour the house from 10-2 Tuesday through Saturday or write Mrs.

Harriet Thomas.

 
The Ring-tum

Washington and Lee University’s Weekly Newspaper

 

 

Vol. LXXIII

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA, JUNE 6, 1974

Number 29

 

394 receive de

On Thursday, May 30, a total
of 394 students received their de-
grees as commencement exercises
were held in Doremus Gymna-
sium owing to bad weather.
Commencement ceremonies are
traditionally held on W&L’s his-
toric front campus.

Among the degrees confered
by President Robert E. R. Hunt-
ley were:

—189 B.A. degrees to under-
graduate seniors in the arts and
sciences division;

—49 B.S. degrees to seniors in
the College;

—48 B.A. degrees to students
in the School of Commerce, Eco-
nomics and Politics;

—28 B.S. degrees to students
of that division;

—80 Juris Doctor degrees to
students of the School of Law.

Two students of the undergrad-
uate school received two di-
plomas each. They are Richard
L. Orr, Jr. of Winston-Salem, N.C.,
and Philip B. Willis of Hunts-
ville, Ala. Both successfully met
the degree requirements for B.A.
and B.S. simultaneously.

The President also awarded
four honorary diplomas, three of
them to former W&L graduates.
Among those honored were
Justice Alexander M. Harman,
Jr., of Virginia’s Supreme Court,
James G. Leyburn, former pro-
fessor and dean emeritus of
W&L, Robert Owen Paxton, a
Lexington native and European
history professor at Columbia
and Thomas Wolfe, author of
“Radical Chic,” “Electric Kool-
Aid Acid Test” and other books.

 

Dr. Louis W. Hodges, professor of religion, delivers the baccalaureate sermon of May 29.

Harman, Wolfe and Paxton are
graduates of Washington and Lee.

Commencement exercises be-
gan on Wednesday with a bacca-
laureate sermon for graduating
seniors and their families. Dr.
Louis W. Hodges of the religion
department gave the address on
“Community: The Fragile
Dream.”

That night the traditional Presi-
dent’s Reception was held for
the seniors and their families at
the President’s Home where Gen-
eral Robert E. Lee spent the last
year’s of his life.

Freshmen aim for srad schools

Almost 3 per cent of the past
year’s freshman class plan to
become lawyers, with more than
18 per cent planning to enter
business, according to a recently
released report of a survey taken
last fall by the American Coun-
cil on Education.

The medical professions ran a
close third at W&L last fall, with
about 15 per cent indicating that
they plan a career in the medical
field.

More than three times as many
entering freshmen plan a legal
career here as the national aver-
age—29.9 per cent, as against 7.9
per cent among male freshmen
throughout the country. The
number of those who plan to
enter business, 18.2 per cent, is
only slightly above the national
men’s average of 17.8 per cent.
On the other hand the per cent-

age of W&L freshmen who plan
medical careers, 15.1 per cent, is
much higher than the national
average for men, 9.4 per cent.

After medicine, the fourth most
frequently named career choice
here was research science, with
4.1 per cent of the freshman class
indicating an intention to enter
this field which ran slightly be-
low the national average.

The ACE survey results show-
ed that Washington and Lee
draws its student body from a
wider geographical area than the
“average” four-year college. Of
V&L freshmen, 89.2 per cent
live more than 500 miles from
Lexington. The average in the
nation who went more than 100

miles was 49.4 per cent, and the
average who went more than 500
miles was 14.9 per cent.

a ace

—Lockhart

Streakers revive tradition

By J. L. REEVES

Streaking may have been the
fad on college campuses this year
but at Washington and Lee it
yyas only a revival from the early
nineteenth century history of the
school,

The first streak of this year in
early March was held at mid-
night on the Colonnade. Only
those interested in the event were
in attendance. However the first
recorded streaking in the area
came somewhate less discreetly
at 7:30 a.m.

In 1804 an incidnet of a stu-
dent baring himself and running
around in public in this less than
modest state was recorded by the
Wé&L Board of Trustees. The
student, William Crump, was
charged with “running naked
through the streets” of the preci-
ously peaceful hamlet of Lexing-
ton in the early hours of the
morning.

Crump apparently admitted the
charge and received a_ punish-
ment for which today’s streakers
would be grateful: simply a
reprimand,

Today the streaker is unfor-
tunately not looked upon as the
party responsible for the restora-
tion of a tradition so long buried
in time. The school still only
reprimands those who are guilty
of such action, if they bother to
approach the subject at all. The
local authorities are not quite
so benevolent in their attitude

toward the phenomenon.

Two students have been ar-
rested for streaking this year,
one having been picked up twice.
The student who was caught in
the act on only one occasion
forfeited his bond, The other stu-
dent was charged with indecent
exposure both times and receiv-
ed progressive fines, the last
amounting to $150.

Most people on campus have
taken the revival of this tradi-
tion in good humor. The attitude
— the local authorities has un-
fortunately been somewhat dif-
ferent. One of those who has
viewed streaking critically has
been the President of the Uni-
versity, Robert E. R. Huntley. He
feels that streaking should be dis-
couraged on the grounds that it
imposes an unwanted spectacle
on some people and offends their
sense of propriety.

Although running nude through
the streets is considered a morals
charge in Lexington it does not
seem to have damaged the careers
of past offenders. William Crump,
the first streaker, did not go
straight to hell for his conduct,
but first became a U.S. Congress-
man and later Ambassador to
Chile. Perhaps the streakers of
this day and age are being pre-
pared for equally illustrious
careers and who is to say whether
it was this past immodesty that
fitted the original streaker to
serve as a U.S. ambassador?
Page 2 THE RING-TUM PHI

 

OUTLOOK and REVIEW]
Enjoying Washington and Lee

Most freshmen entering college have some apprehensions about
the experience of which they are about to partake. These considera-
tions may not keep them awake at night but they are nonetheless
real. Most will wonder about this new life style and about the quality
of life at Washington and Lee.

These misgivings are indeed well founded; adapting to college life
is not easy. W&L will expect a great deal from you, as it does from
each member of the student body. The school will challenge you in
every sense, especially academically and socially. Washington and Lee
is here not only to serve but to be served by those who matriculate.

The success of your first year here is largely dependent on you.
The school provides only the environment and opportunity for intel-
lectual and personal growth. It is left to the individual to meet the
challenge which awaits him. One can only gain by responding to
the opportunity provided by this institution. Freshmen learn that
the old maxim still rings true: you have to put something into it
before you can get anything out of it.

W&L will require your best. This is something we hope you will
assume rather than having to learn from your own experience.
Through dedication to the betterment of both yourself and the school
your stay here will be all it can and should be.

The only advice that we can offer which will specifically serve
you in your first year here is that you should keep an open mind
to all the new experiences and alternatives with which you will soon
be faced. Do not allow yourself to close the door to different facets
of life at W&L before you have learned to appreciate that which

they have to offer.

While going through freshman orientation make a point of listen-
ing to all those who would advise you. Everybody is willing to give
advice to freshmen. Each person’s point of view will prove helpful
if you can possibly absorb it all. As people tell you about the Honor
System or their concept of the school, listen carefully and learn
from them before you have to learn it on your own.

One important aspect of life at W&L is the fraternity system.
Fraternities were weakened in the sixties, put have made a strong
comeback and are prospering. Today, well over half of the students
are affiliated with Greek houses. Many people fee] that their fra-
ternity membership has played an important role in their college!
career. Whatever one’s prejudices may be, one should go through
Rush and attempt to gain an understanding of the system here be-

fore making a commitment.

Come to W&L with an open mind and make a point of listening
to other people when you get here. If you do this you will be able
to enjoy a successful and rewarding first year in college. This school
has so much to offer that your stay at W&L will prove a happy

one if you only let it.
We look forward to seeing you this fall and sincerely hope that

both you and Washington and Lee profit by your coming. Good luck!
—J.L.R.

THE RING-TUM PHI

The Ring-tum Phi is published on Thursdays during the college year.
It is printed by the Journalism Laboratory Press, Washington and Lee
University. The mailing address is Box 899, Lexington, Virginia 24450.
Entered as second class matter September 29, 1946, at the Post Office,
Lexington, Virginia 24450, under the act of March 3, 1879. Subscription

rates: $7.00 for the school year.
Business Manager

DAVID LEE
Paul J. Lancaster
Robert A. Cook
Bill Flesher

Editor-in-chief
JESS LL. REEVES

cy pe EE ES BER EER OEE ES?

ek eee EECVES FE PEEE CLES E EEE EE

Sports Editor

Photography Editor
Entertainment Editor

cK CeR SED ERE EET ESET TT

Contributors

Thursday, June 6, 1974

 

ee

Ask Traveller

Ed, note—‘Ask Traveller” has appeared as a weekly column in
the paper this year. The name of the series refers to the horse
of Robert E. Lee who is buried behind Lee Chapel.

—Reply to a prospective freshman—

Q—What does Washington and Lee have to offer?

A—A good night’s sleep, for one thing. You see, at the time I
graduated from high school, I suffered from insomnia. Since the
lowing of cattle was the only thing able to put me to sleep, I
chose to work on my uncle’s dairy farm instead of going to
college. It wasn’t a bad life, really. And in my spare time I
coached a promising young Guernsey to moo “Away in the
Manger” under my window at night. Unfortunately, the comedy
impersonations she insisted on doing as well, especially the one
of Ed Sullivan introducing the Beatles, kept me awake and in
the end she had to go. I followed suit and enrolled at Washington
and Lee, where the talented Guernsey reappeared at a banquet
dinner as the main dish. (It must have been her because I was
asleep before the after dinner speeches began!)

Washington and Lee I found to be an engaging place, “a bastion
of higher learning and a bailiwick of recreation.” I read that in
a brochure sent mistakenly by the University, which turned
out to be about some dude ranch for Spanish-American War vet-
erans in Arizona. Nevertheless, the description aptly applies to
W&L, though there were raised eyebrows when I first arrived
in Lexington bearing a desert survival kit, a Roosevelt poster,
and sixteen changes of underwear.

Certainly, with variation and challenge the W&L existence is
loaded. At least, the guest lecturer at the first seminar I attended
was loaded. His talk had been on Iberian culture and at the
reception afterwards he chased one of the deans with a fork,
shouting that he was about to plant the Portuguese flag in the
dean’s ribs and claim his appendix for Isabella or Ferdinand,
whichever one was at home. Of course, it didn’t happen quite
that way; it might have been a soup spoon, now that I think.
The point is that life at W&L is not uneventful and, except for
occasional nightmares in which Charlton Heston offers to recite
the entire book of Genesis backwards to a plumbers’ convention,
that life is pleasant. Professors take an active interest in the
student and, unless the student habitually wears stripped ties with
plaid shirts or grows asparagus for profit in his window sill,
then the professors might even be persuaded to teach MA ete
manners, if nothing else. The Lexington scenery impresses, the
architecture appeals, the distant girl schools beckon, the com-
munity thrives and the local A&P stocks Ben Franklin cigars.
What else can there possibly be?

Q—How many volumes does W&L’s library contain?

A—Ha, ha. Good impersonation of a freshman. Can you do a Guernsey
trampling Ed Sullivan?

RING-TUM PHI
SUBSCRIBERS!

The first two copies of THE RING-TUM PHI are
being sent to parents of Washington and Lee stu-

  

 

dents. If you would like to continue receiving each
edition of THE RING-TUM PHI, please fill out

your name and address now and send $7.00 to:

THE RING-TUM PHI

Box 899 Lexington, Va. 24450
Ne rrr yer rere. cee ee i6a6 4s
pr eer cau keueseesue sist
Meee as Aik :

 
Thursday, June 6, 1974

THE RING-TUM PHI Page 3

 

 

The Alexander-Withrow House

3 WEST WASHINGTON STREET

A restored historic landmark with five period-furnished guest suites.
A different experience in overnight hospitality for those who love
fine things. Students may make reservations for their parents and
tour the house from 10-2 Tuesday through Saturday or write Mrs.

 

STUDENT 8!

Make this your headquarters for Good Food

Harriet Thomas.

 

 

McCRUM’S DRUG STORE

Monday thru Saturday 8:00 a.m.-6:00 p.m.

Sunday 8:00 a.m.-1:00 p.m.

“Your Home Away From Home”

Downtown Lexington

 

 

Welcome Freshmen
Come by and have a free Coke
COMPARE
oe Our Values

Before You

  
 
 
   
   

Buy
: : | Anywhere
PIANG & FURMITERE CO.

So

24 N. M

 

Dial 463-3121

 

 

Washington and Lee University

#onkstore

Dedicated To The

Fine Art of Browsing

Located on Campus

SOOOSOHSHHSOHSHHHS \SHHHHHHHHHHHSHHHHHHHHHHSOSES

and Service

We have meal tickets at savings to you

SOUTHERN INN

 

 

 

 

Welcome Freshmen

LEXINGTON
HARDWARE

23 S. Main 463-2242

 

 

}

 

eqgeit

Your Happy Shopping Store

 

HEADQUARTERS FOR

Draperies... Rugs

Student Lamps... Bedspreads
Bed Linens. . . Pillows

Student Charge Accounts Welcome

Main Street Phone 463-3111

*
a

*

2

*

e

Open: 9:30-5:30 Daily Friday 9:30 to 8:30 °
=

s

e

aa

&

*

€
 

Page 4 THE RING-TUM PHI

S$OSOSHOSSSSSSSOSHSOSCEOSSESSSSOSPSOSCISOSCHSCHOSSSOOCOCHSESCEESH
* FOR YOUR EXTRA PIECES OF FURNITURE
: e
: Varner & Pole :
; 115 Main St. — Lexington, Va. ;
5 6cbane dees esseueiesensiss scenes

Thursday, June 6, 1974
There are now positions open
on the RING-TUM PHI Staff.

Please Contact

DAVID LEE or JESS REEVES

THOUVOOUUVEOOUAE} G20 000 P RYE EEE TREES SEPT

Welcome Freshmen...

For Your Convenience

We Offer You

 

24 tour Banking

 

 

DOMINIBANK

Nelson Street Office

 

First National

A Dominion Bankshares Bank

Exchange Bank

IAOUUSVEDODUUAUEOUO UGA TERRE TORE ASEEETEEEE EPG ETE EET gE

LEELA EEE EEE EL EERE EE EEE TR tll tate eee tt lo

fe ode ade fe ofe desde ate ateagentente sfonde ate nto afeoteatete oleate atenteate nteate ate ate afeatenteotetenteate [eadeateadeafeageatente tends feafeateateadedeafe abe abe abe afeafe ode abe abe ade obeageode abe ode ode sie sieede ode

Dear Student,

Welcome to Washington and Lee University
and Lexington, Virginia.

Alvin-Dennis has been handling the cloth-
ing needs of W/&L students for more than ten
years.

Our selections for the well-dressed student

include: suits and sport coats by Deansgate,
Austin-Hill and Friedman Monks; dress shirts by
Sero; knit shirts by IZOD; slacks by Austin-Hill

 

and Lee; shoes by Clark’s of England (Walla-
bees), Sperry (Topsiders), Bass (Weejuns) and
British Walker; ties by Berkley; plus a com-
plete line of sweaters, jeans, khakis, underwear,
socks and outerwear.

For your convenience, bill may be either
directly to you or to your parents. Or if you
prefer, we also accept Master Charge and Bank-
Americard.

For the “no-pressure” approach to buying
clothes, stop in and discuss your clothing needs
with myself or our student representatives who
will be happy to assist you in any possible way.

Good luck during your entire college career,
and we look forward to your valued business.

*e

elelelitetoitetettetotebbetetetetettetettetetetetetet gates

seofeofeoteofeofeoteoeofeoteoteofenteoteodeoteofeeobeotectendesteoteoteot

Sincerely
Alvin L. Carter

President
:
© ad ay
Ks
Vint- Dennis:
oe
OG
%
=
Fageogoogergeogeogeogeogeogeogeoberbeobeerferfeoteoteodeoteofeteofeogeofetesfeofeogeodeofefeoerterderterderteoteogeoteoteotesteatenteotesteoteateetesfeesteofeefeofeaferfeoe eofeofeofeotetortert

 

 
Thursday, June 6, 1974 THE RING-TUM PHI Page 5

 

 

A Convenient, Dependable

 

at the

University Supply Store

(the only linen service authorized by W&L)
P.O. Box 913 Lexington, Va. 24450

 

 

 

East Lexington
Grocery

Beer — Ice — Gas

Party Supplies — Snacks
ABC No. 2078—8 a.m.-10 p.m.
We Sell Kegs
Open 7 days a week
SHOP FOR SUNDAY
EVENING DINNER

 

 

 

 

Hamric and
Sheridan

JEWELERS

Watch and Jewelry Repair
Hand Engraving & Class Rings

463-2022

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

—SP PSS EFF FFF FF FEF FFF SS ES SSS SS SST S TS SFP PE I FE I FE EE I

~~

 

SP PE ECC COP OF CO OO FO OE Sra SV

Adair-Huttonf Featuring Clothing
“Because We Care” For Students

 

AND THEIR FAMILIES

Shoes Men’s and Preps

Formal Rentals

Accessories

Sportswear Children’s Wear

HOURS: Monday thru Saturday 9:30 to 5:30
Friday Night ’Til 8:30

waa aeeeeweweeeeee eee ee ee ee
he he he hi he hi hh renter clan tlt nl
hh hie hi heathen clr tt lan cen tn lrnnctllnannilinntln

le

i cl lt A i A mnt ty
iii ili lili il ila i i i a
alll cilia lls

 

 
Thursday, June 6, 1974

THE RING-TUM PHI

Page 6

 

 

 

 

 

BIUISIA ‘u0jSUIxe] _ospivaasd snduvs THM yi fo asaydsowy Ajpuatsf ay] asay M,, 3223S UOSTAN] “AA IIT

S NAOL FOATIOO

‘apeurt Asimbur AsaAa pure yova 0} uoTRjUe}e 3dwioid
pue jeuossad ino jo pasnsse aq Aeur nox ‘aaey Aeut nod 3ey} sur]

-qoad jasedde sepnoy1ed uo aduepuodsasso> InoA ayAut AT]eIpsIOD 3

 

*“SIDTATIS 43944O Auew Jno pue sty} jo 3sn oyeul TE“
noX adoy apy ‘awoy 3nod 03 JO NOA 0} Jaap pafiq Jaye ‘yuNoIDe

aSaey> uado ue jo aSapatid ay} pjoy “JA 3 Jepmys & se “NOX

‘nod jsIsse UBD OYM ‘MET PUR azeENpRIS
-sapun ‘syuapnys jesaAas Aoydura ay *3vad JOOYDs ay} JnoYysnosy) pue
Suruuiseq ay} ul syuauteasmbes Suryjo]D ajajdwios snoA je [Jy pue

astApe Ajpunos 0} sn sajqeua WaT P29 YUM aduatsadxa Suo] nO

*JISIA INOA JJAUT 9M OS ‘pur UT
nod YM paydjs st 330s ING ‘sJUspn}s Mau 3y} YIM Jead Yea ayeur

aM sdryspuaisy ay} sI ssautsnq sno jo 329ej SutAjsnes jsour ay} sdey

 

-Jag ‘2ouezuIenbse nod Surjeul 0} pseMsoy YOoT 3A “NOA JOZ adua

-3adxa Suijioxa ue aq [IM ]JeF SIYI [29 A\ Sutsezua yey} ains aie apy

SJUIPNIG MINT 9) O} ISVSSOP. VW

tt

 

 

 
 

 

Thursday, June 6, 1974

Generals fall to Hopkins, 11-10

By BOB BRAND

The Washington and Lee Gen-
erals came knocking but they
couldn’t quite get in the door.

Rick Kowalchuk scored with
a little less than two minutes
left to play to give Johns Hop-
kins an 11-10 come-from-behind
victory over the Generals in the
NCAA lacrosse semi-finals Satur-
day, May 25, in Baltimore, Md.
The goal by Kowalchuk capped
a furious Hopkins rally in the
fourth period and ended Wash-
ington and ‘Lee’s most success-
ful lacrosse season ever.

W&L finished the year with a
15-1 record and the No. 3 posi-
tion in the polls. The loss was
particularly disheartening to
coach Jack Emmer and his play-
ers because a victory over Hop-
kins would not only have given
the Generals a shot at the nat-
ional championship but more im-
portantly would have gained
them the recognition as a la-
crosse power, recognition that
has eluded them the past two
years. But, unfortunately, it
wasn’t to be.

Teddy Bauer thrilled the large
contingent of W&L fans at the
game by controlling the opening
face-off and firing a shot past
Hopkins goalie Kevin Mahon
with only nine seconds gone off

See your friendly banker

for all your financial needs.

Rockbridge

 

United Virginio. Bank

the clock. Cahill of Hopkins re-
taliated by scoring two minutes
later and the nip and tuck pat-
tern of the first half was estab-
lished. The teams went into the
dressing rooms at the half tied
5-5.

Kowalchuk opened the _ scor-
ing in the third period but his
tally was followed by four un-
answered goals by the Generals.
Dave Warfield’s score tied the
game up and was followed by
two straight goals by Bryan
Chasney. Skip Lichtfuss ended
the outburst by flipping in his
third goal of the game to give
W&L a 9-6 lead.

With only two minutes left in
the third period Cahill scored
again to cut the Generals’ lead
to two, 9-7. Bill Rienhoff got the
goal right back for the Generals
by scoring his third goal of the
game in the first minute of the
fourth quarter, but after that it
was all Hopkins.

The Blue Jays were able to
control the game and take ad-
vantage of four fourth quarter
penalties against the Generals —
to score four consecutive goals
without an answer from W&L.
The victory allowed Hopkins to
advance to the NCAA finals
against the University of Mary-
land, who they defeated.

THE RING-TUM PHI

Page 7

 

Several Generals played bril-
liantly in defeat. Goalie Skeet
Chadwick ended his career with
20 saves despite being pelted
with 58 shots by Hopkins. The
performance should earn him All-
American honors for the year.
Skip Lichtfuss capped his out-
standing athletic career at W&L
by scoring three goals and pick-
ing up seven ground balls. Senior
‘Bryan Chasney, probably the
most underrated General, had
another fine day with two goals
and two assists. Bill Rienhoff also

Dry Cleaning

Linen Service

WE DELIVER

SSSSSSSSOSSSOSSOOCHSSSSSSSSOOCHESOHCTECEZCE

Interested In Outdoor Activities ....

 

Join The OUTING CLUB....

Hunting, Fishing, Backpacking, Rappelling,

Camping, Canoeing, Dogs

Storage & Free Moth Proofing

Open: Mon. thru Fri. 8:00-5:30

 

had a good day with three goals.

The W&L defense deserves
credit for holding Hopkins’ usu-
ally high scoring attack to only
two goals and two assists. The
trio of Jim Farrer, Tom Keigler
and Rob Lindsey has played very
well all season. Special mention
should be made about the job
Rob Lindsey did to All-American
Jack Thomas. Lindsey was like
fly paper on Thomas all after-
noon and shut the Hopkins star
out for only the second time in
his career.

UNIVERSITY
CLEANERS

Reliable Service In

Shirts Laundered
Clothing Repair

463-3622
Sat. 8:00-1:00

ITI IIT ITT IT Pe

 

Meets Monthly for planning and programs.

 
THE RING-TUM PHI Thursday, June 6, 197+

 

 

Prints and Paintings
Jewelry % Leatherwork

SHEVANDOAH CRAFTS

Pottery * Ironwork %* Woodwork *~ Weaving
Hours 10 A.M.-5 P.M. Monday-Saturday

College
Inn

(C.I.)

PIZZAS * BEER
Finest In Food

 

OPEN 9-6

9 South Jefferson

  

  

Closed Wednesday

 
 

Every Item Handcrafted

@ ©8OSSGSHHHSHHBHEOOHCBS

© 8800808086680 89S 868888808
@006080066000000800600068080
6©O@0686O6CSEOSHSSSEESEHCHESEED

SKYDIVING,
RAPPELLING

(A Mountaineering Technique)

RUBBER RAFTING

 
 
 
 
 
 
    
 
 
  
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
   
   

ORIENTEERING BAND

Why else ROTC?
REGISTER FOR MS101

—For man-building
leader training

—3, 2, 1 year full
scholarships

—MS101, only 1 class
meeting per week

—No obligation first
two years

—Courses open
to entire
student body

—Because
ROTC leads
to an Army
Commission
plus 2nd Lts.
earn approx.
$10,000
‘per year

—Scholarship winners and junior and &
seniors receive $100 per month

—Curious? All you need do to find out
what it’s about is register for MS101.

wae

  

All photos taken during
W&L ROTC Dept. scheduled
activities 1973-74.

For further information call
collect 703-463-4730 or visit
The Military Science Bldg.
