THE RING-TUM
PHI
BEGINS THE
1051'}-1 VOLUME!

T

I W1?l15t¥{i§ll1<t.l§,l{:{)tf

Wzlslllr ‘YG-TON AND Ln: UNIVERSITY

JAMES  L‘i"Y1'~‘i"$4'.}~7 T..'ai‘!¥w'..=\.&-'2?‘ W
"./\.’.~’3.‘t"-1":-‘§§N‘~0”l"Cii’( i L‘ §1Nt9.'£~l§ 3/

 R 3 02002

T 12- R; K;   :2
INDEX

Ol"lI\‘='l(i)NS
SPORTS
Ans

Vt :11:-.111; Cl’.  

N

‘WM

:\'l(}Nl).'\’i’, Am. 29. 20112

 W&L welcomes
  ‘ accepd students

lvlm’ GUY / The Ring-rm Pbi
BY IMRAN NAEEMULIAH
ASSISTANT NEWS EDITOR

On Wednesday, high school seniors accepted for fall
enrollment visited Washington and Lee one ﬁnal time before
the universal response date of May 1.

Accepted Students’ Day “is generally split 50/50, with
half of the approximately 160 visiting students attending in
the fall for sure, many of them turning in their deposits that
day, and the other half less certain,” said Kelly Kopcial, as-
sistant director of admissions. “It is a great way for them to
get a last glimpse of the campus before they have to decide.”

Alongside family members, students attended an infor-
nytion session, departmental open houses, sat in on classes,

‘ met current students, and possibly spent the night with a

freshman host.

Some students’ visits reinforced their decision to enroll
at W&L.

“I’ve already decided to come to W&L in the fall, but
since I’ve never visited campus, this was a great way for me
to make sure I was making the right decision,” said a male
prospective from Cincinnati, OH. '

Another student who had already spent several

' days during an earlier honor scholar competition, was

less sure.

“I’m really uncertain about where to go,” he said. “I’ve
also been accepted at Dartmouth.”

Dean of Students David Howison, Health Center Direc-
tor Jane Horton, and seniors Justin Arnold and Katie
Cedarholm presented a wide range of topics to parents and
students, includeding academics, the honor system, residence
life, dining services, the Greek system, and the new alcohol
policies.

Parents were especially concerned about W&L’s al-
coharl regulations, spending about twenty minutes on the
subject.

“The alcohol culture is present at many schools,”
said Howison. “Therefore, you should absolutely un-
derstand your values wherever you go, and know your
limits. We’re here to help students make the right
choices.”

Howison elaborated further on the strike system, explain-
ing, “We’re committed to engaging parents. The premise is
that everyone makes mistakes.”

Howison believed the session was “a great way
for students and parents to get a better feel for life at

A ‘ W&L.”

“The session was very informative,” said one parent.

7 “It’s hard to know what’s going to happen in college before
you actually get there. It’s especially hard to know the social
1 scene”

“This session has made me feel even better about my
decision,” his daughter agreed.
“I’1l see you next year!”

ail news briefs to
‘ v,lu.vedu

I 1 NOTES

Van Ness wins national grant

Kenneth Van N ess, professor of physics and engineering at Wash-
ington and Lee University, and colleagues from Rutgers and Princeton
were awarded a ﬁve-year $2.35 million seed grant from the New Jersey
Commission on Science and Technology. Federal agencies, founda-
tions and industrial sponsors have committed additional monies, bring-

ing the grant total to $7.7 million.

The project, “Advanced Functional and Structural Materials from
Irnmiscible Polymer Blends (IlVIPBs),” will create a collaborative, inter-
disciplinary industry/acadernic center for the development and com-

mercialization of IMPBS.

The multi—year grant will provide Van Ness with funding to con-
centrate on the processing and characterization of a number of new
11VIPB’s. Recently, Van N ess was awarded aThomas Alva Edison Patent
Award by the R&D Council of New Jersey in the category of emerging
technologies, which is directly related to this project.

The Edison Patent outlines the development of an IMPB with
unusually superior mechanical strength. The technology currently is
being used to produce commercial railroad ties which are in place at
various Class 1, mass transit and short-line locations. The stability of
the product, as compared to wood, makes the ties more suitable for
use in locations difficult to access, such as bridges and tunnels.
K Earlier attempts at creating l1\/IPBs, which are blends of two plas-

tics which normally do not mix well, yielded products with poor physi-
cal properties. The main advantage of the improved lMPBs described
in this proposal is that the two polymers are processed (blended)
together so that they become interlocked mechanically. Using blends,
54, explained Van Ness, rather than pure polymers, is more cost effective.

HAIL TO THE THIEF

HAIL TO THE <:H1r«:r'. Bush arrived in a helicopter (insert).

] rs BRLX 116/IT/} R12/gm/1P/2i

Traveller kicks off 4

BY CATHERINE C. GUY
W&LlFE EDITOR

After last fall’s tragic accident that
claimed the lives of two students, there
has been an increase in interest in
providing safe rides.

Last year, the campus worked on
improving Live Drive and Safe Ride, two
sober ride programs that ran three nights
a week from 10 p.m. to 2 a.m. This Spring
Term, GASD (Generals Advocating Sober
Driving) has come up with a streamlined
sober driving system. Traveller runs
every night until 4 a.m. W&L students
volunteer to drive their cars, and adorn
them with white ﬂags. Also instrumental
were several faculty members, including
Dean Howison, Dr. Horton, Jane
Kaufman, President Boetsch, and the
Board of Trustees.

On Thursday, Apr. 25, GASD and SAE

sponsored a program in Lee Chapel entitled

“Deliberate Driving” to coincide with the '

kickoff of Traveller. The students brought in
speakers, who shared their drunk driving
experiences. Theﬁrstspeaker, Buddy Parsons,
is a Houston high school senior and brother
of W&L senior Whitney Parsons. Last year,
an intoxicated Parsons struck a tree, killing his
friend. He was sentenced to 120 days in jail,
10 months probation, and 400 hours of
community service. Parsons closed by stating
that“Lifeistooprecioustowaste. I’mjustan
eighteen year old who’s been through hell
andbac ” NextwereSeanandAmberBarry,
anAtlanta couple. Seandrovedrunkfrom the

Atlanta Steeplechase in 1998 and hit a tree,
killing the couple’s two best friends. Sean
was tried for intoxicated vehicular
manslaughterand was sentenced to ten years
probation. Sean observed, “Alcohol is your
choice, and so is driving, but drinking and
driving is not.”

After the speakers, senior Baxter
Lee, the president of SAE and a member
of GASD officially kicked off the
program. He stated that within the
three nights of operation, over 500
students had already used its services.
Lee thanked all participants, and said
that Traveller had been founded as an
extension of one of W&L’s founding
policies that, “Each student has to take
personal responsibility for his or her
actions. In this situation, it means
finding a safe way to get home.” As
the students left, they received
Breathalyzer strips and replicas of the
Barrys’ car key.

Traveller has been running for a
week, and many are thrilled with its
success. States sophomore Richele
Cole, “I love Traveller.” However, not
all are enthusiastic. Another sophomore
girl states that she’s had difficulty
obtaining a ride. “I’ve called four times
now and have not been picked up. They
don’t show up, or don’t give you a
timefrarne for when they can come. I
don’t think it’s as efficient as Live Drive
was.” Hopefully, Traveller will be able
to work some of these kinks out, for as
Lee said, “We hope to save some lives.”

Music industry seeks Internet alternates

BY IMRAN NAEEMULLAH
.\ss1sr.\x’r .\E\V'.\i EDITOR

After all the fuss over the Napster copyright vio-
lation trials, the recording industry has come up with
an alternative way of ﬁghting copyright violations. The
ﬁve biggest recording companies (Sony, Universal, EMI,
BMG and Warner) have ﬁnally united their efforts to’
lure music fans away from the temptation of breaking
copyright — the two new music sites PressPlay and
MusicNet offer thousands of hot music picks at low
prices.

When discussing copyright enforcement actions,
most people talk about the legendary trial cases of
the Recording Industry Association of America and
Metallica v. Napster Inc. or the restrictions that dif-
ferent governmental agencies and educational insti-
tutions impose on their members on using software
tools that might cause copyri ght violation. During all
the years while Napster was being dragged from one
court hearing to another, many of the IT—interested
people were very pessimistic about the success of
this method. The immediate future showed that they
were right — the web site “After Napster — The Beat
Goes On...” (www.aftemapster.c0m) displays a list of
32 Napster-like peer-to—peer products. The famous in
W&L Morpeus/Kazaa software is just one of those
32. Since it took around 2 years to sue Napster and
Napster violates the copyright law texts quite bla-
tantly, just imagine how much time it would take to
sue all the 32 others.

Also, many people have disputed the benefits
of closing down peer-to—peer software tools. The
main purpose of developing these tools was enable
people to share all kinds of useful data — scientific
research results, geographical maps, different kinds
of statistics... Illegal music and video files, even
though they are the most commonly distributed
ones, are just a part of the picture. In fact’, even the
US military ordered some months ago to have a peer-
to—peer based software tool developed for improv-
ing communications between military units in spe-
cial operations.

Because of these two reasons there was a call for
searching for alternative solutions of the copyright viola-
tion problem. Finally there is some result — the ﬁve big
recording companies united themselves and produced two
websites, PressPlay and MusicNet, which enables their
users to listen to and download copyrighted songs le-
gally and even burn their own CD’s in return of a monthly
subscription fee.

PressPlay (www.pressplay.com) contains a large
archive of music from three big recording companies
(Sony, Universal and EMI) and also a number of inde-
pendent labels. The site offers a 14-day free trial and
after that a choice of 4 subscription plans. The Basic
Plan allows for 300 streams (listening to a song with-
out actually downloading it) and 30 downloads (copy-
ing the song file to your hard drive) at the price of
$9.95/month. The Silver Plan offers 500 streams, 50
downloads, and 10 CD burns for $9.95 during the first
3 months and $14.95 after that. The Platinum Plan

offers 1000 streams, 100 downloads and 20 burns for
$24.95/month and the Gold Plan allows for 750 streams,
75 downloads and 15 burns for $19.95/month. This
means that the price for a stream can fall down to 2.5
cents without including all downloads and streams
you get!

MusicNet (www.musicnet.com) features music from
the selections fromBMG, EMI, Warner and Zomba,
showcasing more than 10,000 artists from all musical
genres. Their Real One MusicPass service allows for
100 streams and 100 downloads for $9.95/month. For
$19.95 you get their Real One MusicPass Gold service
which allows for all of the stated above and also for
recording and mixing your own MP3’s and unlimited
CD burning.

So, how successful are these solutions of the copy-
right violation problem? The two projects have both
advantages and disadvantages. The advantages are the
very low prices they offer for guaranteed high-quality
music (sharing programs do not guarantee that) and the
fact that they allow music fans enjoy their favorite bands
completely legally. Their major disadvantage so far is
that they are not united. For example paying the sub-
scription fee for PressPlay would enable you to listen to
U2, Santana and Shaggy (if they happen to be your fa-
vorite artists), but if you want to listen to Red Hot Chilli
Peppers, 2Pac and Britney Spears, you will have to pay
the subscription fee for MusicNet, too. So, even though
this is a step towards solving the copyright violation
problem, there are more steps for the recording industry
to take.

. Phi Gamma Delta 3.290

. Sigma Chi 3.283

. Sigma Nu 3.265

. Sigma Alpha Epsilon 3.237
. Lambda Chi Alpha 3.235
. Pi Kappa Phi 3.176

. Phi Kappa Psi 3.159

. Kappa Sigma 3.114

. Phi Delta Theta 3.062

10. Phi Kappa Sigma 3.048
11. Sigma Phi Epsilon 3.013
12. Chi Psi 2.981

13. Beta Theta Pi 2.976

14. Pi Kappa Alpha 2934
15. Kappa Alpha 2.892

\O0O\lO\UI-b~b->l\-)>-*

1. Pi Beta Phi 3.462

2. Chi Omega 3.358

3. Kappa Alpha Theta 3.328

4. Kappa Kappa Gamma 3.215
5. Kappa Delta 3.200

Fraernity Rankings

All Sorority 3.304

All Women 3.277
Non-Sorority Women 3.217
All Students 3.177

All Fraternity 3.1 10

All Men 3.096
Non-Fratemity Men 3.048

Sorority Rankings

. Pi Beta Phi 3.355
. Kappa Alpha Theta 3.271
. Chi Omega 3.182

. Lambda Chi Alpha 3.094
. Kappa Delta 3.026

. Phi Kappa Psi 2.984

. Phi Gamma Delta 2.976

. Kappa Sigma 2.965

. Pi Kappa Phi 2.963

. Pi Kappa Alpha 2.889

. Kappa Alpha 2.884

. Beta Theta Pi 2.874

. Phi Delta Theta 2.822

. Sigma Chi 2.786

. Sigma Nu 2.778

. Chi Psi 2.706

. Sigma Phi Epsilon 2.684
. Phi Kappa Sigma 2.675

[\)r—->->—ai-—->->—a>—ar—-w»>—\OOO\lO\U1-kL;.)t\)>—A
©\DOO\lO\U1-D-U-)I\)>—*(D

Freshmen GPA

. Kappa Kappa Gamma 3.180
. Sigma Alpha Epsilon 3.096

6:00 p.m.—Java-Palooza. Java-
Palooza and Habitat for Humanity
present Poston" Brown opening for
Agents of Good Roots. This is the
Habitat for Humanity Spring Kickoff.
BDG Quad. Cookout is 6-7 and con-
cert is 6—10:30. (rain location: Doremus
Gym)

Wednesday, May 1

12:00 p.m.—Environrnental Stud-
ies Luncheon 2001-2002. “Reading
the Roots: American Nature Writing
before Walden,” Michael Branch, as-
sociate professor of Literature and
Environment at the University of Ne-
vada, Reno. Room 114, University
Center. RSVP to Lynda Bassett de
Maria, ext. 8932.

8 p.m.—Alcoholics Anonymous
Meeting. Fairfax Lounge. All W&L
students, faculty/staff and the Lex-
ington community are welcome. Cof-
fee is provided.

Thursday, May2

8:30 p.m.—Reunions 2002: Open-
ing Assembly. Keynote Speaker:
Lamar J .R. Cecil, professor of history
emeritus. Lee Chapel.

9:30 p.m.—Reunion 2002: Welcom-
ing Reception. Alumni House.

Friday, May3

ll a.m.—60 Minutes with the
President.

 

I,
’.

PAGE 2

r .

....,.......
rr«rr.\—r.r-er

.r........«-......
rut rrtfrrfrlxrxt

Sf.i“FE‘PEDITonAL

Introducing the sprin g lineup

Twenty-ﬁve of the Phi’s best issues have
come and gone, and in accordance with tra-
dition the new staff must be introduced.

Fresh from South Central Chevy Chase,
our new opinions editor brings his own brand
of street smarts to his section. Rejecting his
predecessor’s donnish trappings of academia,
Andrew Alvah Latimer isn’t fronting, he’s phat
and real.

Brett Timothy Kirwan, -the former
opinions editor, is working for an Ohio
senator. Democrat, naturally. Ohio is the
land that is high in the middle and round
on the sides, and itnow has W&L’s most
vocal commentator on the barricades of
the culture wars.

On the sports page, David Michael
Crowell replaces Jeremy Scott Franklin.
Franklin is on special assignment to Germany,
hoping to introduce American sports (and pho-
tographer Meg Ferrara) to a country that
sorely needs them. No more cricket or bocce
for the citizens of the Federal Republic!

Crowell is currently pursing his undergradu-
ate degree at Washington and Lee University.

Fair Photo Lass Mary Guy remains on staff.

The Life page mourns the passing of Mat-
thew Coursen, who undertakes the rigors of se-
nior year. Catherine Clare Guy remains, a stal-
wart ﬁgure not unlike the Statue of Liberty, safely
directing scores of immigrants to freedom

Irrrran Naeemullah remains in news, and
newsworthy. He enjoys long walks on the
beach, British cinema, bloody steak dinners,
and foreign travel.

Like Sirius Vega Centauri, a migratory
star that abandoned its planetary system for
the void, the Phi’s brightest celestial body
Katie Jane Howell, associate editor, leaves
for California. Although temporarily absent,
editors everywhere still fear the long reach
of the Evil Queen’s pica scepter.

Editor-in—Chief Matthew Buchan
McDerrnott will remain on staff, dispensing
grandfatherly advice and Christian cheer.

Volume CV’s new editorial board pledges
to continue the ﬁne work begun in the previ-
ous edition, ensuring continuing strides in story
and layout quality.

UOTE OF THE WEEK:

RINK—TUM-PHI,
STICKERI-BUMl WE
ARE THE STUFF FROM
LEXINGTONl
— 1898 CALYX

THE RING-TI:uI PHI

PINIONS

ANDREWIAIIIEI
OPINIONSEDIIOR
E-MAIL LAIIMEIIA@xxIL'.EI)U

Needle exchange a good idea

American officials need to rethink the way they combat the spread of AIDS

Now there has been nothing
in the news of late to really bring
the subject of my article this week
to light, but it is something I en-
countered in the reading for one
of my courses. So, I thought I’d
pollute your minds with my liberal
slant on the matter.

In the United States it is
proven again and again that many
beneficial harm reduction policies
concerning drug use do nothing but
meet an overwhelming opposition.
Of these proposals, arguably the
most controversial is the idea of
needle-exchange programs for us-
ers of illicit intravenous drugs.

That this means is local clinics
and hospitals provide an opportu-
nity for intravenous drug users to
exchange their dirty, used needles
for new ones.

There are several reasons that
these types of policies continually
meet resistance among politicians
and their constituents alike. Prima-
rily, it is believed by many that these
types of policies will “send the
wrong message.” To illustrate this,
I will use an example of another harm
reducing policy.

Many of America’s illegal im-
migrants live in situations in which
their children and families suffer
from malnourishment because
these families live well below the
poverty line. Some have advo-
cated policies that would give
these families benefits to help
them out.

The opposition to such pro-
posals believes these types of poli-
cies would do

here is one of addiction, not a
shortage of clean needles.

But, as is shown by such pro-
grams in other countries, if we can
make these needles available then
addicts will take the effort to use
clean needles.

Moreover, the biggest reason
for concern is obvious. We know
that needle sharing has been
shown to be just as likely to
spread HIV as promiscuous sexual
activity between homosexuals or
heterosexuals. I believe our gov-
ernment has a responsibility to
keep this disease from spreading
amongst all of our country’s com-

munities, includ-

nothing but en-
courage a
steadier flow of

LEFT OF CENTER ing illicit drug
_ users.
NICHOLAS RAMSEY ‘O3 1“ reality. it

illegal immi-
grants to come
to the United States. The same is
believed to be true for needle—ex-
change programs. Opponents to
the idea believe that such policies
would send the wrong message to
the public.

I ask, is it likely that someone
will say, “Well, I can get free
needles from the local clinic. I
should develop a smack habit.”

Moreover, addicts are not go-
ing to increase use of their addic-
tive drugs because the needles are
free. We know that they are al-
ready sharing needles with other
drug users because they cannot
get sterile needles. The problem

Letter to the Editor

seems callous for
our government
to sit idly by as more and more drug
users become infected. Nearly sixty
percent of tested drug users in New
York were found to be HIV—positive
and these numbers are found to be
only slightly less in Eastern Europe
and Asia.

Studies in 1998 showed that ap-
proximately one-third of new AIDS
cases here in the US were linked di-
rectly or indirectly to drug use.

Currently, countries like En-
gland, Canada, Australia, Sweden
and the Netherlands have been
successfully operating needle—ex-
change programs. Some started as
early as the 1980s. These programs

coumsr or now/.cor71erI17z4grlorr.og
A sHorr IN THE ARM: Successful needle exchange programs in other countries could
serve as a model for a similar venture in America.

exist only in the dozens here in the
US, often operating underground.
They are forced to do so because
no tolerance laws in many states
forbid such programs.

Meanwhile, the National Insti-
tutes of Health, the Centers for Dis-
ease Control and Prevention and
the National Academy of Sciences
have all endorsed these exchange
programs. Sadly, government
policy cannot seem to be as pro-
gressive as scientific research
needs it to be.

Lastly, I do not believe that
this type of action would be an-
other economic drain on society.
Sterile needles are much less costly
than the drain of AIDS research and
care for infected patients could ever
be. And lastly, whatever opinion
you may have of these addicts, no
one deserves to be put at such a
blatant risk of contracting this hor-
rible disease.

While those who are clean
cannot comprehend the physical
and mental addiction that drug
users have, it literally makes them
unable to behave in a way where
their own well being takes prece-
dent. Drugs are always their first
priority.

Therefore, if our government
can take actions to keep drug us-
ers from getting infected, thus
slowing the spread of AIDS, and
decrease the economic drain these
new cases create on our economy,
then why shouldn’t they?

Edi tor- in-chief Matthew B. McDermott
Associate Editor Katie J. Howell
Asst. News Editor ImranNaeemullah
Opinions Editor AndrewA. Latimer
W&Life Editor Catherine C. Guy
Sports Editor David M. Crowell
Photo Editor MaryE.Guy
Photographer Meg F errara
Business Manager Paul A. Seifert
Circulation Manager Brian Castleberry
Asst. Business Manager Emily Barker
Advertising Manager William Litton
Internet Editor Peter L. Djalaliev

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the _

undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee Univer-
sity, Lexington, Virginia. The Washington and Lee Publi-
cations Board elects the Editor-in-chief, but The Ring-
tum Phi is otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible submis-
sions and letters. All subrrrissions must be e-mailed to
phi @wlu.edu or in the University Center mailbox by 5
p.m Friday to appear in the following week’s edition. The
Ring-tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for con-
tent and length. Letters and columns do not necessarily
reﬂect the opinion of the Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Ad-
verljsing does not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi
or its staff. This newspaper observes current court deﬁni-
tions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Mailing Address: University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Street Address: 31 Washington Street
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
» Fax: (540) 462-4059
Email: phi@wlu.edu
http.’//phi.wlu.edu

Annual Subscription Rate: $30

W&L students who favor maintaining
status quo should start packing

Dear Editor,

I am writing out of concern for the young men
who have recently voiced their discomfort with dis-
cussions about the course of cultural change at W&L

I think they’ve got it backwards and may need to
reconsider whether they made a mistake when decid-
ing that W&L was the right choice for them.

While it seems that some students may have de-
cided on W&L, looking for a homogeneous outlook
among their peers, I am certain that Admissions was
not presenting W&L in that light.

Our Admissions experience portrayed a different
view of W&L leadership moving in another direction,
encompassing an appreciation for the richness of intel-
lectual life that comes as a result of intentional efforts
to recruit a freshman class offering a broad representa-
tion of human experience as an overall goal in selecting
from among the most promising applicants each year.

As a W&L parent, I know that my daughter views
both the heritage and present W&L with sincere passion
and positive appreciation. She enjoys intellectual debate
and would be very unhappy at the lack of opportunity for
growth if W&L students all shared common viewpoints.

For those who are discounting the value of growth
and change at W&L that has taken place after the Presi-
dency of Robert E. Lee, it may be a beneﬁt to read some of
his own writing about education. As a leader, he embraced
intellectual growth and accomplishment.

If the intellectual climate at W&L were frozen in time,
as suggested recently, W&L would not have maintained
the stature that Robert E. Lee envisioned for a great insti-
tution of higher learning.

The idea that those who are not in line with the
“status quo” thinking at W&L ought to attend else-
where seems to suggest that the author(s) of that opin-
ion have written their own remedy. Since they are not
in sync with goals at W&L, their logic would lead them
to get their transfers in order.

For the time being, since young women were not
admitted at W&L until recently, these young men
ought to stick to their convictions and abstain from

’any social activities with any of the female students
at W&L.

I am certain that my daughter, among others, will

not mind that at all.

Sincerely,

A W&L Parent

Judy L. Konkel

Parent of Robyn J. Konkel ‘05

MONDAY, APRIL 29, 2002

Oh,the burns, the
hippies, the anthrax

A report from the front lines of the
battleﬁelds on Capitol Hill

The latest article from Brett Kirwan marks
the ﬁrst installment in a series of “Dispatches
From The District”'as he embarks upon Wash-
ington Term. This week: protesters, the loom-
ing fears of anthrax, supporting the home-
less and other perils. ‘«

The Washington Term class has arrived in
Washington; one week down and if any anthrax is
yet to come through the Capitol, we’ll be the first
to know.

Constituent mail takes up much of the time of
Senate side staffers, although the Honorable Senator
from Ohio, has, thankfully, decided that interns
shouldn’t be on mail duty, so I have a reprieve.

However, the paid staff in my office has been

sorting through
“°“’1y five ”‘°“’ RIGHT or THE AISLE
sand copies of the
same letter—— vot—  KJRWAN ‘O4

ers really do mail in

the form letters sent to them from lobbying groups. 1 A

Other mail highlights include letters explaining
why and how to get rid of daylight savings time, all
manner of threats to Senators, the Senate and the
United States and the always exciting irradiated let-
ter that crumples when touched. Not only are the
security measures rendering mail anthrax-free, but
oftentimes illegible as well.

Washington is never a dull city, though, no may
ter how many hours one spends in the mail room. In
fact, our very first commute was punctuated by idi-
otic, yet colorful, protests. Several hundred rich white
suburbanites and burned-out hippies were blocking
traffic and trampling the lawn in front of the Capitol.

The average protestor really has no gripes ‘
with the government or America. Most probably
go to Georgetown and have daddy’s credit card in
pocket. As such, they dress in rags, but film their
pointless rallies with $700 video cameras.

Everything is on tape. A dirty look from the po-
lice is filmed as evidence of the terrible treatment
dealt to the well-heeled, worthless wimps who chant
in solidarity with the oppressed in the third world.

Who knows what these unwashed granola-eaters
are angry about? Their one-verse chants included com-
plaints about ?trie'soA, military aid to Columbia, the
plight of the Palestinians and a litany of the usual lib-
eral boilerplate. They cheered loudly and applauded

when one of their number was arrested and carefully *

escorted to a waiting Metro bus. ~ _

There were, of course, more chants that praised
the great courage of the arrestee, as if being carried
away for stepping into the street when politely asked
not to by a police officer who could, and had every
right to, break you in two demonstrated any cour-
age or deep political insight rather than incredible
immaturity and a juvenile rebelliousness.

All in all, the protestors are easily ignored and
accomplish little more than giving headaches, early
mornings and overtime to the hard—working men
and women of the D.C. police department.

Another aspect of the commute that Lexington
doesn’t offer is the homeless people sprawled
along the sidewalk and around the Metro stations.
One in particular, Steve, is on the street begging
for food with a sign that assures any donations‘.
won’t be used for booze or drugs, but is always. ‘
eating. Every time we have seen this bum he has
either been sleeping or eating, yet he wants my
money! Afriend of his, Al, provides passers-by with
oldies hits playing from his boombox.

Creativity abounds among the homeless com-
munity. One lady who is stationed outside the
Metro in the afternoon used to carry a sign claim-a
ing she has three children to feed. The last few 1
days she has brought a child to sit next to her and l T
look extra pathetic.

_ Others seek to provide a service to the commu-
nity in exchange for handouts. The sidewalk in front
of Union Station is filled with bright trumpet music >4
from a man who knows everything from “Charge!”
to “We’re off to See the Wizard.” Thursday after-
noon he had to compete with a violin duet for the
travelers’ money.

Hilarity is easily found inside the Senate as
well. Who knew that Idaho had a Senator named
Mike Crapo? Who knew that Hillary’s trailer is a
double-wide?

TAl.KBACI<: \l/hatis your favoritecxcuse forslrippirrg Spring Term classes?  

 

 

 

   

 

 

)
it
“A bottle of Scotch and a “My teachers require me to go, so “Sleep,” “Moi? I never Skip Classes.” “Sleeping.” A
good cigar-” Igo-” -Robert Floyd ‘04 -Mehul Srivastava ‘()4 -Maria Golubiewska ‘04

-Mike A gnello ‘02

-Susan Slopek ‘04

‘It. ,.

 

    

[ma 3

.§rugmVumt§£ - .sm-msmtstv mm

 
 

 

Copper Cotl. e

Gracious comfort awaits you at
Copper Cottage. Enjoy breath taking
mountain views and beautiful sunsets.
In a peaceful relaxed atmosphere.
You can have the serenity and privacy
that comes with country living, and
still have the convience of being less
than 4 miles from downtown
Lexington. Sleeping 4, Copper
Cottage offers such amenities as a
fully equipped kitchen, direct tv,
central air and a deck with gas grill.
So whether your trip to Lexington is
business or pleasure let Copper
Cottage be your home away from
home. Call 540 463 9222 for further
information and reservations.

owes

MONDAX’, APRIL 1, 2002

Lexington Art Gallery
13 W. Nelson Street

Lexington, Va 24450
(across from the movie theater)

Contemporary Photography

Silverl Platinum I Palladium Prints
W&L and local landscapes

Exclusive Portfolio “Rockbridge 2002”
& Robert E. Lee 1870 portrait printed from Miley Glass Plate

Sat 10 to 6 Sun 11 to 3 & Appts.

Phone 540-464-8080
EMail: lexart@ntelos.net
www.lexingtonartgal|ery.com

  

r_Vjl_0NDt\1,__r\l’RlL 29. 2002

AMERICAN RED CROSS CLASS
COMMUNITY FIRSTAID & SAFETY
INFANT/CHILD ADULT CPR
STANDARD F IRS TAID
DOREMUS GYMNASIUM 500-LEVEL CLASSROOM
MAY 2, 9, AND 16 6 TO 10 PM EACH EVENING

FOR MORE INFORMATION CONTACT
RED CROSSOFFICE, WAYNESBORO, VA., 540/943-4511

    
    

,Lcx‘ington,. Virginia , 
Where entet'tain[m_entc0mes naturally.

  

Keiip tanley 8:
The Clinch Mt. Boys
Sunday,

can at

Friday, May 17, 7:30 pm.

    

Janis la
Sunday, June 2, 7:30 pm.

,_ . _ _ .
Doc Watson
Sunday, May 26, 7:30 p.m.

a

Tix & Information

WWW theateratlirnel<jln.com
or call 540-463-3074

 

 

PAGE 4

FOR RENT

3-bedroom furnished apartment, off-
street parking, 5 minutes on foot from
Washington Hall. $600/month; utilities
not included. One—year lease. Please
call 463-7044 after 5:00 pm.

Join the 105th crew!
Phi meetings

Monday, 5:05 pm.

write — layout - copy edit — etc

 
 
 

 
 

133

Great Student Rental for rent Undergrads or Law
Students. Available 2002-2003. Two stories, two
Lpartmetns, two apartments, up to six people. Ping Pong
Room $ TV Room. Large yard and very private. Call
463-7168 or evenings 348-6908.

TBAIIEIIEII

463-8900

  1 nights ner week
10nm--zam

Extended hours:

Wed. Fri, Sat [9 m--
llaml

Take Iiesnonsillilitvl

Location: BDG Quad / Rain Locatin: Dorms  
Mondays-Spring Term / Times: 7:30-10:30 PM

I‘

 

 

*7

Tea: Rl:‘\'Et".}~»1‘l,l?»l;l)l—lt

A
EMONDAY, APRIL 29, 2002

PORTS

  

DAVID CROWEIL
SPORTS EDIIOR

EMtII; (ROWE1lD@WlLl.EDU

PAGE 5

«Generals earn trip back to NCAA Tournament

%W&L survives

   

vi

MARY (iUY/ The Ring-ti/M Phi

;RUNNING THE OFFENSE: Freshman Gavin Molinelli awaits a pass during the
Generals’ 14-12 semiﬁnal win over Lynchburg on Tuesday afternoon. Molinelli
itallied three goals and two assists in two ODAC tournament victories.

-1.

BY DAVID CROWELL
SPORTS EDITOR

For fans of the Washington and

at Lee men’s lacrosse program, April

&L track competes at ODAC

(C

I14 was a bleak day. On that Sun-
;day afternoon, the Generals
‘dropped an 8-5 contest to

destroyed W&L’s playoff hopes a
season ago.

Two years, two straight defeats.

When the squad needed a vic-
tory the most, however, they found
a way to win, defeating the top-
seeded Tigers 8-3 to claim the Old
Dominion Athletic Conference

/ate scare in beating Lynchburg 14- 12 in semifina

berth to the NCAA Division III Tour-
nament.

“Coming in, this was a team we
knew we could beat,” freshman Gavin
Molinelli, who tallied an assist in the
championship game, said. “We had
a mental lapse the first time we played
against them, but if we just played
our game, we knew we would beat
them.”

In the April 14 contest, the Gener-
als got out to a quick 3-1 first quarter
lead behind two goals by junior Tom
Melanson. The Tigers, however,
dominated the second quarter, scor-
ing five unanswered goals to take a
6-3 halftime lead. At this point, coach
Mike Cerino believes Hampden-
Sydney took his squad out of the
game.

“I think we played a little tight since
we were anxious about a big game,”
the first-year coach said. “You have
to give them credit. They knocked us
out of our offensive flow a little bit.

“They put us into a lullwith their
offense and we started to do the same
thing on the other end. That’s not our
style of play.”

The Generals got the opportu-
nity to revisit their style of play by
trouncing Randolph-Macon and
Virginia Wesleyan by scores of 11-2
and 18-1 respectively. Molinelli and
sophomore Matt Fink each tallied

Randolph—Macon while sophomore
Dustin Martin scored four goals to
lead the Generals over the Blue
Marlins.

Cerino believed these games were
very good for conﬁdence heading into
the ODAC Tournament. He believed
it was “important for us to concen-
trate on our play down the stretch and
click as a team a little bit.”

The defense, offense and sopho-
more goalkeeper Ansel Sanders all
seemed to click early in Tuesday’s 14-
12 semiﬁnal Victory over third-seeded
Lynchburg.

After giving up an extra-man goal
to Lynchburg, the Generals erupted
for eight unanswered scores, punc-
tuated by sophomore defenseman
Lawson Grumbine picking up a
ground ball, running the distance of
the ﬁeld and delivering a nifty pass to
Molinelli for a score at the 7:55 mark
of the second quarter.

The Generals went into halftime up
9-2, a lead they held the rest of the
way despite a frantic comeback at-
tempt by the Hornets.

“I think everybody played really
well,” Molinelli said. “There were some
problems late, but we stuck together and
that’s what championship teams do.”

Lynchburg took advantage of
nine W&L penalties and scored
three extra-man goals in the second

“It was a tough situation, going to
the penalty box while winning,” Cerino
said. “We plan to take care of our fouls
by playing a little smarter. We were play-
ing hard, but I think we lost a little bit
of our focus in the second half.”

Cerino added that a key to the game
plan was limiting Lynchburg’s second
chances and gaining key ground balls.
The Generals control of the ball
started with Melanson. who won 15
ground balls.

“Melanson was unbelievable,
he’s one of the best in the country,”
Cerino said. “If he’s at the top of his
game, he makes us a special lacrosse
team.”

Despite some problems late, Cerino
also praised the play of Sanders, say-
ing that “Ansel is one of the reasons
we’re here and he’ll take us as far as
we go. He held one of the highest-
scoring teams in the country to two
goals in the first half.”

Before the tournament began,
Cerino said that he wanted to see his
younger guys, including Martin, Fink,
and classmates Mike McNamara and
Mark McLewee to be aggressive and
take their shots.

His wish was answered in the
championship win against Hampden—
Sydney, as Martin exploded for four
goals against the tliird-ranked in the
nation, including the Generals’ first

is, then avenges April 14 defeat to Hampden-Sydney to seize ODAC Tournament crown

MARCHIN’ ON: Senior Andrew Barnett
tallied six points (3 goals, 3 assists) in
two ODAC Tournament victories.

Fink also scored his team-leading
32”“ goal of the season and dished
out two assists. Sanders made 10
saves.

The Generals return to action on
Saturday with a 1:30 p.m. home con-

 ,

Himpden-Sydney, the team that
A

Women’s

A; BY MICHAEL LEE
SPORTS WRITER

The Washington and Lee women’s lacrosse team be-
lgan their road through the Old Dominion Athletic Confer-
‘.5 ence Tournament by hosting Sweet Briar in a quarterﬁnals
I game for the ODAC tournament.
M In a completely one-sided match, the second—seeded
,'Generals annihilated the seventh—seeded Vixens with a
gﬁnal score of 16-1.

The Generals played the first half with consummate
‘skill; jumping ~to~an— early lead -and vneverlooking back.
5;Freshman Kitt Murphy scored four goals in the ﬁrst half,
giwhile sophomore Kelly Taffe put in three goals and an

Aiassist. Sweet Briar’s Ginger Tripp scored their only goal
{of the game with 13:31 remaining in the first half. The
:;Go(erals held a commanding 12-1 lead at halftime.

 The second half brought a bit more restraint from
§W&L’s offense, but the Generals scored four more goals

""10 wrap up the game. The scoring was decidedly distrib-
:uted throughout the game, with nine Generals scoring
 two others contributing an assist each. Sophomore
ggoalkeepers Joanna Perini and Annie Tompkins each gar-

gfnered a single save for the Generals.
 Senior captain Courtenay Fisher felt her squad held a
Iifgreat deal of confidence and was enthusiastic about thd
grnatchup with Sweet Briar.
 “We played them earlier in the season (to a 23-5 win)
 kind of expected that we would win,” Fisher said.

_ BY DAVID CROWELL

 ’ SPORTS EDITOR

k The Washington and Lee men’s and women’s track
lgprograms competed in the Old Dominion Athletic Confer-

“ence Championships on Saturday afternoon, with both

‘ ads taking a ﬁfth place ﬁnish out of ﬁve teams. The

en ﬁnished with 61 points while the women totaled 14.5

:3 oints.

_ The Lynchburg men ﬁnished with an astounding 217
?‘points en route to winning its ﬁfth straight ODAC Cham-
jpionships. The Roanoke women earned the champion-
iﬁship with 195 points. ~ ~

 Junior Chris Sullivan led the men’s squad by earning
A-top seven finishes in four different events. Sullivan won
f£:Il'16 long jump with a leap of 6.69 meters and also placed
::'.,second in the 100 meter dash (11.20), fifth in the 200

Ailrneter dash (23.55) and seventh in the javelin throw
§(43.18m).

 “Chris had an outstanding meet,” coach Norris Aldridge
fhsaid. “Guys like Chris, that worked really hard through the
,;entire season, found great success at this meet.”

 Junior Mat Ropoza also took home an individual title in
gthe shot put, throwing 13.66 meters on his ﬁnal toss to
fifseize the championship.

   
 



 Alumni.

' -W;-},jgg;.':§’*

championship and an automatic

three goals in the victory over

  
 

BALANCING ACT: Senior Julie Carskadon attempts to elude
an opponent during the Generals’ 16-1 victory over Sweet

With the conclusion of the ODAC tournament ap-
proaching, Fisher looked ahead. “I’m excited for this week-
end — there will be more challenging teams that we’ll be
ready for.”

Senior co—captain Mike Hegg returned from nagging
injuries in order to ﬁnish second in the 1 10-meter hurdles
(15.85) and also took ﬁfth-place finishes in the 400—meter
hurdles and javelin throw.

“Considering how little time Mike had in order to pre-
pare himself, he did an excellent job,” Aldridge said.

In team events, the Generals also took home a second-
place finish in the 4x 100 meter relay, coming in at 43 .06, a
season best.

Despite ﬁnishing in ﬁfth place, behind Roanoke by a
mere four points, Aldridge was not disappointed by his
team’s performance. The veteran coach played up the im-
portance of injuries to the ﬁnal outcome.

“We had some injuries to key competitors. (Fresh-
men) Wes Bell and Reid Childers didn’t run. Wes be-
ing gone cost us about 20 points,” Aldridge said. “I
thought we could’ve finished as high as third without
injuries.”

On the women’s side, field event competitors led
the way, with senior Sarah Schmidt taking a third-
place finish in the javelin with a throw of 37.60m.
Schmidt failed in her attempt to win four straight
ODAC titles. .

“Sarah threw farther than she’s ever thrown in ODAC
competition,” coach John Tucker said. “Unfortunately,

half.

Mm‘ (3ur/ The Rirg;-tum Phi
Briar on Wednesday afternoon. The defensive u.nit had very
little trouble, as the visitors only mustered three shots.

Head coach Jan Hathorn was also pleased with
her team’s performance, saying “it’s always nice to

win. .
Hathorn stopped short of naming individual out-

Championships

she was up against two national performers and we hope
she’ll reach the qualifying distance in the next few
weeks.”

Senior Megan Babst took home a fifth—place ﬁnish in
the highjump with a leap of 4’- 10”.

Senior captain Melissa Palombo just missed earning
points for the team by seizing a sixth-place ﬁnish in the
triple jump.

Numerous competitors, including sophomores Vanessa
Adams and Lauren Egbert, and freshmen Liz Crawford
and Audrey Walker finished seventh place in various
events.

These athletes also reached a number of personal best.

‘Tucker said that team members achieved 16 new personal

bests.
Tucker also stressed the continual improvement of his

younger athletes and the possibility for growth in the

future.

“There is prorriise for the younger athletes like Audrey
who, if they keep improving, will be earning big points for
us in a few years,” he said.

The women’s squad returns to action when they com-
pete at the Christopher Newport Invitational next Satur-
day. The men’s squad next competes on May 11, at the
James Madison Invitational.

Please send $30 check to:

Want to ‘
keep up
what’s going
  on at W&L

1 next year?

The Fling-tum Phi
University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, VA 24450
(540) 462-4060
phi @ w/u.edu

three of the game.

.a.

test against Division II Limestone.

acrosse feels sting of Yellow Jackets, falls short in defense of ODAC title

standing efforts and praised her team’s perfor-
mance.

“Everybody does something in a game like that — it
was a very good team effort.”

The Generals advanced to the semifinal game
against Roanoke on Saturday, and defeated the Ma-
roons in an 8-4 "decision at Randolph—Macon College
in Ashland, VA.

At the half, the Generals had a 5-1 lead, with
two goals each from sophomores Kelly Taffe and
Lee Wheeler, and another added by senior Emily
Q.“/ens._.~...-....,.. . 1. 7. . , ..;  . . . . .. .

The second half brought another goal from Taffe and
two more from junior Leslie Bogart.

“We played Roanoke over a week ago and beat them
by one goal. We were very excited to play them again —
they’re a good team,” Fisher said.

With the victory, the Generals proceeded to the ODAC
Championship game against the top-seeded Yellow Jack-
ets of Randolph—Macon on Sunday afternoon. That, un-
fortunately, proved to be the Generals’ Waterloo.

After a stellar ODAC Tournament, the Generals
could not hold onto an 11-4 lead and eventually
lost to the Yellow Jackets 12-11 in overtime, on a
goal by senior Erin Riedy, who tallied seven on the
day.

Bogart led the Generals with a goal and three assists.

The Generals will play their ﬁnal game of the season
when they host Longwood at 12 p.m. on Saturday.

W&L Sports Schedule: April 29 - May 5

Friday, May3
Baseball
Savannah A&D@W&L, 3 p.m.
Saturday, May4
Baseball
Savannah A&D@W&L, 1 p.m.
Men’s Lacrosse
Limestone@W&L, 1:30 p.m.
Women’s Lacrosse
Longwood@W&L, 12 p.m.
Women’s Track
W&L@Christopher Newport Invitational
Sunday, May5
Baseball
Mary Washington@W&L, 2 p.m.

Hing-tum Phi
Subschpﬁons

 

  



BY IAN R. MCILROY
SPORTS WRITER

The Washington and Lee men’s tennis team
steamrolled over its conference competition to claim
its seventh straight Old Dominion Athletic Confer-
ence championship. Held at Lynchburg, the chain-
pionship marked the Generals’ 21*‘ conference charn—

pionship in the last 26 years.

Picking up 72 points, the Generals dominated
their strongest conference rivals. Lynchburg Col-
lege placed second with 55 points, and Hampden-

Sydney ﬁnished third with 49 points.

W&L demolished all match play opponents, cap-
turing the championship of all six singles and all

three doubles ﬂights.

Senior Rhys James was named the ODAC Player
of the Year after winning the No. 1 singles and

doubles ﬂights.

Freshman Paul McClure and senior Andrew Rob-
erts overcarne tough competition in the cha1npion-
ship round of their ﬂights to win the number 2 and
3 singles, respectively. Roberts partnered with James

for the number one doubles victory.

Doubles partners and sophomores Graham Nix
and Austin Kim easily captured the No. 2 doubles
ﬂight. Then, in singles play, Kim proceeded to win

 .   ttttttttttt , 

Generals, James sweep ODAC foes

.' ". xx’:-'1': xi I-‘ma

the No. 4 bracket, while Nix breezed through his

competition in the N o. 5 ﬂight.

In his last ODAC championship, senior Rob
Moynihan lost only one game at No. 6 singles in
three rounds of tournament play. Rounding out the
scoring for the Generals were McClure and sopho-

more K.C. Schaefer, who captured the championship
of the No. 3 doubles ﬂight.
On his selection as ODAC Player of the Year, James

remained fairly modest.

PLAYER or THE YEAR: Senior Rhys James serves in a
March 16 win.]ames won the ODAC No. 1 singles and
doubles championships on Tuesday afternoon.

“The fact that we won every match at this year’s

 

MONDAY, APRIL 29, 2005

tournament was truly special, although it is an
honor to receive the award from the coaches.”

MARY GUY/ The Rir/Kg-lzm Phi

James’ teammates could not agree more with
the coaches’ selection.

“We were all really pleased that Rhys was
named player of the year,” said Schaefer. “It was
a great accomplishment to top off his already very
accomplished career at W&L.”

Fresh off their win at the ODAC tournament,
the Generals have begun preparations for the up-
coming matches in the NCAA South Regional.

“We have two intense weeks of practice left,
so we just need to remain focused and work hard,
”James stated.

With a top two ﬁnish in the regional, the Gen-
erals would then move on the national touma-
ment. With a berth in the national tournament as
their goal, the Generals hope to cap off their suc-
cessful season with a couple of big wins.

The Generals faced a potential opponent in
the South Regional when they defeated Sewanee,
4-3, onApril 18.

James faced defeat at No. 1 singles, 6-2, 4-6, 6-2,
at the hands of Adam Kent, but W&L responded
by winning four of the next ﬁve singles ﬂights.

McClure, Roberts, Kim and Moynihan all won
their respective singles ﬂights.

In doubles competitions, Sewanee stole away

ﬂight.

two of the three ﬂights, with McClure and Schaefer
picking up an 8-3 victory at the No. 3 doubles

The Generals will learn whom they have to face

in the postseason sometime this week.

Golf places second at Fincastle C.C.,
Campbell earns top ODAC honors

BY MICHAEL LEE
SPORTS WRITER

The Washington and Lee golf team
hit the links on Monday and Tues-
day for the Old Dominion Athletic
Conference championships, played at
Fincastle Country Club in Blueﬁeld,
VA

Shooting a two day total of 604,
the Generals took second place, fall-
ing to Guilford College by a mere ﬁve
strokes. Third-place Hampden
Sydney ﬁnished 14 strokes behind the
Generals.

Junior Chip Campbell shot a two
day total of 147 (74-73) to garner sec-
ond place on the individuals’ leader
board, ﬁnishing ﬁve strokes behind
Dave Patterson of Guilford.

 

Freshmen Carlos Spaht and Ged
Johnson, and junior Chuck Green also
turned in good performances, with all
three placing in the top 10.

Campbell and Spaht, who placed
sixth at the ODAC Championships,
received proper recognition by earn-
ing spots on the All-ODAC Touma-
ment team.

In addition, Campbell was named
to the All-ODAC team, announced
on Wednesday afternoon. He leads
the Generals in stroke average this
year, at 75.6 strokes over 18 rounds
of play.

“It’s a great honor to be voted to
the all—conference team by the other
coaches. It was a tough tournament —
windy conditions made it hard, and
Guilford was a little too much to over-

BY DAVID CROWELL
SPORTS EDITOR

league crown.

points.

7-6 (5).

MARY GU\'/ The Kingtzrm Phi
BACKHAND: Marie Trimble unleashes a shot in her semiﬁnal.

The Hollins University women’s tennis
team sent a shockwave through Old Do-
minion Athletic Conference play by win-
ning three singles brackets and all three
doubles ﬂights en route to clairriing the

Hollins finished with 60 points, just
outlasting Washington and "Lee Uni-
versity. The Generals totaled 53

Roanoke sophomore Ashley Fleming
earned ODAC Player of the Year recogni-
tion after she won the No. 1 singles flight,
defeating freshman Marie Trimble 7-5, 3-6,

Washington and Lee University
placed a competitor in all but one

come,” Campbell said.

Guilford swept the major
postseason awards, as Savio Nazareth
garnered ODAC Player of the Year
honors and his coach, Jack Jensen,
earned Coach of the Year recognition.

Campbell earned his second con-
secutive selection to the All-ODAC
Tournament team. He earned a spot
last season after posting a third-place
ﬁnish at last year’s ODAC Champi-
onships. It was the jur1ior’s first se-
lection to the All-ODAC team.

Not basking in the limelight,
Campbell offered praise to the
younger players who performed well
this season — Spaht and Johnson.

“Carlos is looking great — he’s a
very good player; he’s got a solid
swing and a good overall game. To

match.

tie it.

sure.”

ﬂight, but faced defeat in six finals
matches.

At No. 2 singles, sophomore Ellie
Simpson was defeated 7-6 (2), 6-2 in the
finals by Hollins sophomore Anne
Stephenson.

Freshman Lora Farris led the Gener-
als by winning the No. 4 singles ﬂight,
defeating Sweet Briar’s Brooke
Sagalowsky 7-5, 3-6, 6-4 in a thrilling

“I was very proud of how Lora played,”
coach Cinda Rankin said. “She was down
5-1 in the tiebreaker set and came back to

“She picked up her game im-
mensely, especially in her service

game, and played with great compo-

Sophomore Emily Taylor faced de-

do what he did as a freshman is very
good,” he said. “Ged also did very
well — he just missed making the All-
ODAC Tournament team.”

The Generals ﬁnished their season
when they travelled to Middletown,
Delaware for the Scotty Duncan Invi-
tational on Saturday and Sunday.

W&L ﬁnished third out of 12 teams
after shooting a two day score of 603

‘ (302-301).

The Generals ﬁnished 16 strokes
behind the team champion Navy and
10 strokes behind Lehigh.

Campbell paced the way for the
Generals by shooting a 147 (74-73) and
seizing ninth place.

Johnson ﬁnished one stroke be-
hind Campbell, good enough to take
1 1th place.

feat at No. 5 singles, losing 5-7, 6-3,
6-1 to Hollins sophomore Kendra
Perry.

Washington and Lee freshman From a team standpoint, the ODAC
Championships have no effect on na-
tional rankings. The Generals stand to»;

Kristin Crawford grabbed the final
title for the Generals on Sunday af-
ternoon, winning the No. 6 singles
crown over Bridgewater’s Anne Yust
6-3, 6-3.

In the doubles flights, W&L
were present in each of the final
matches.

At No. 1 doubles, Trimble and Simpson
fell to the team from Hollins by a score of
6-4.7-5.

Taylor and Farris fell at No. 2 doubles,
while Crawford and freshman Meredith
Bailey dropped the championship at No. 3
doubles.

“Those six got tremendous experi-

W&L ousted *
from postseason play-

BY DAVID CROWELL
SPORTS EDITOR

For most college baseball play-
ers, it’s deﬁnitely beneﬁcial not to
play 162 games, or any number re-
motely close to the Major League
model. With fewer games, however,
each individual contest means that
much more.

The Washington and Lee base-

_ball team learned this truth the hard

way in the month of April, losing a
key doubleheader to Lynchburg
that ultimately removed them from
postseason play.

Guilford officially removed the
Generals from the Old Dominion Ath-
letic Conference Tournament with
an April 20 split.

“Our number one goal at the be-
ginning of the year was to go to the
tournament, but we’re not devas-
tated,” coach Jeff Stickley said. “We
knew what we had to do in confer-
ence play, but it was tough coming
off the break against Lynchburg. In
the end, the top six teams in the con-
ference probably could’ve ﬁnished
anywhere from one to six.”

Junior Brian Gladysz, leading the
team in hitting with a .383 batting
average up to Sunday afternoon,
showed a bit more emotion.

“It’s very frustrating to lose any
games to teams that you know you
can beat,” he said. “But it really be-
comes frustrating when they are
teams that you need to beat to get
into the postseason.”

In an April 13 doubleheader
against Lynchburg, the Generals
suffered from a lack of offense in 3-
0 and 4-3 losses. In the first game,
Lynchburg southpaw Blair Hayden
tossed a complete—game, three-hit-
ter, striking out five batters.

“(Hayden) is one of the top
pitchers in the league. He threw a
one-hitter against Eastern Menno-
nite, so we can’t feel frustrated with
that,” Stickley said.

I In game two, Gladysz ensured the
Generals would not go scoreless on
the day, hitting an RBI double in the
top of the first inning. The Hornets,
however, responded with four runs

out.

still

in the bottom of the inning, getting
help from a W&L error and a balk by
sophomore Dan Kagey. "

The Generals attempted a come-
back, as a third inning RBI double
by senior Todd Gosselink and a sev-
enth inning RBI groundout by se-,
nior Matt Kozora cut Lynchburg’s
lead to 4-3. W&L couldn’t move the
winning run across the plate in the
seventh however. ,

Junior Michael Hanson scored all”
three runs for the Generals.

“We got good pitching and lie-
cent defense,” Stickley said. “But it
was bad timing, coming off the break”,
and we couldn’t get the key hits
when we needed them.” _

In the first game against Guilford,
the Generals beneﬁted from a great
performance -on the mound by‘
sophomore Peter Dean. Dean, who
improved to 5-3 and lowered his
earned run average to 1.52, threw a
complete—game, six-hitter and struck ,
out ﬁve, leading W&L to a 3-0 vic-
tory.

In game two, the Quakers exacted
some revenge, scoring six runs in
the second inning and eight runs in
the third to cruise to a 15-7 win.

Kagey took the loss, lasting only
1 2/3 innings. Kozora ﬁnished the
afternoon 3-for-3 with a pair of walks ,.
and two runs batted in.

With the completion of ODAC
play, both Stickley and Gladysz
agreed that hitting woes prevenlled
the Generals from enjoying more”
conference success.

“The way we pitched and played
in the ﬁeld often gave us a chance
to win; we just couldn’t get the‘
clutch hits,” Stickley said.

Gladysz reiterated W&L’s excel-
lence in the ﬁeld, saying “our pitch-
ing and defense has been solid
throughout the year, just as it was)-
last year. We just haven’t been able
to put runs on the board when we
needed to.”

The Generals return to the dia-
mond with a Friday home contest”
at Cap’n Dick Smith Field at 3 p.m.
against the Savarmah College of Art
and Design.

)i

It

Generals fall t Hollins, but look toward national competition

ence this past weekend,” Rankin said.
“They all really played their hearts‘

97

gain a top berth in the South Re-

gional.

On April 20, W&L faced a key com-

petitor in the South Regional, the Tigers ,
of Sewanee. The Generals came out with

a 9-0 victory. .

tion
see

"Iris.  performance car. It's part multipu rp-use carzyall. It's part cutttng-edge transportation. And it’s a1‘EToyota.
It's Matrix, an entirely new breed ofvehlcle — stop-and-stare good looks. standard air conditioning. up to 180 H?
with an availahile 6-speed. Matrix is designed to be whatever you. want. including affordable -5 starting at $1 5,1105 ".

. . j’

Test: Drive Matrix At Your
Toyota Dealer Today!

one  
GET THE FEELIRE TOYQTA.

m~w.tovata.cam

‘l'I‘LS"?4P LKCLEJDING TAXES. TAKE.  5&5
M«EUP'ﬂOl’»1Al..EQ.lII‘l'I&fNl: M0051 3933

SHOWN. DEALER SETS F|l'ilr‘I.L PRICE.

‘J

$ETOYOTA

“Rhodes College is a school that
we will have to get by to get to na-
als and Sewanee allowed us to.,\
stand against "
Rhodes,” Rankin added. “We also
beat Trinity, a team Rhodes defeated,
so I believe we’re in a good posi-
tion. A

where we

99

 

r

Artln

«.9

\"&'5':‘>'3- .

  
   

373.755

=1?-34l:r\(1-tt\3l‘l:E

v. to 5 Ii\rs:1)E

i\.,'.’“.

F’)
5..

'1
C ' “‘ CADAVERS

’.tsr-moron

    

I aiirf: j—t>.HZI;\. .

AND LEE UNl‘VERSlTY

  

 
 

L 7" :5 ;%'§(_,'~,‘r  Era:  P25:
.-  ..   INDEX

" .1N":?.ws 1

Mm 1 02002 (.)l3l.\’l()?\'L*~Z 2
l).rH'}: 3

S:><>t<'1‘s 4-

P}-51 'l‘-\Ll<.'£iA(filx;S 2

 

BY MATTHEW MCDERMOTT
EDITOR IN (IlllEl"

Alumni from 10 undergraduate and law classes descended
on Washington and Lee last weekend for a three—day reunion.
The event opened Thursday with the induction of
juniors James Carmody, Lindsey Duran, Rebecca Johns,
Christopher Sullivan and William Teichman into Omicron
Delta Kappa, a national leadership fraternity.
Over the next two days, the classes of ‘52, ‘57, ‘62,
‘67, ‘72, ‘77, ‘82, ‘87, ‘92 and ‘97 could attend over a dozen
seminars and question—and—answer sessions. Meals on
the front lawn and Greek mixers provided alumni with a
chance to comment on their alma mater’s recent changes.
Due to coeducation’s relatively modem institution in
1985, many alunmi found female students the campus’
most striking change.
“What a magniﬁcent difference,” said Jed Dun ‘82,
an alurrmus from Greensboro, NC.

L’NEARTH1£‘_D 
ON PAGE 3. 

to opus, observe changes

  

.,._

(I)L'KlE.\\'\lr\V\ l.L'.EDL'
REUNION. Alumni hug during the weekend’s festivities.
“Women: I think its wonderful,” agreed Ted Achom
‘72, from Carnphill, PA. “I fully supported the idea.”
A small seminar was later held to discuss alurnnae’s
contributions to the University.

NG-TUM

 . ,., \ V:
..r>.;\.t.,=<.>.. I.

2-5-£5.-(1

 

Alumni were also interested in W&L’s emerging com-
mitment to diversity, partially addressed in Friday’s semi-
nar “Going Global: New World Perspectives at W&L.”

“We come together around learning, leadership, and honor,”
said Dunn, who didn’t believe in “diversity for diversity’s sake.”

‘‘If you can agree to that and to work, all are welcome.”

Some alumni were struck merely by the fact that stu-
dents carne from different regions of the US.

“Certainly it’s good,” said Steve McEllhaney ‘67, who
welcomed the diversification. McEllhaney was once a
“nontraditional” student himself.

“You called [W&L] the University of the South, but I
was from Ohio.”

Downtown Lexington, alumni observed, has been
thoroughly gentrifred.

“There’s a lot more things in Lexington,” said Bill
Lathbury ’62, from Princeton, NJ, who also noticed the
town’s new prosperity. The Willson—Walker House, for
instance, used to be a watering hole called “Snookies.”

JAVAPAIOOZA

I\lo\'rm', ;\'lf'-.3‘ (3, 20172

Across the street was a pool hall called “Liquid Lunch.”
These changes were not unanimously applauded.
“Lexington is much more upscale, but it may have

_ lost a touch of character in the process,” McEllhaney said.

While some things have changed, some traditions—
like heavy drinking—have remained the same. Alumni Week-
end remains the heaviest drinking weekend of the year.

Nearly every year, Director of Security Michael Young said,
alumni are arrested by the Lexington police for “all charges”:
including public drunkenness and driving while intoxicated.

Security provides additional officers to cover alumni events.

“We are mindful that these are important visitors and
we try to take care of them,” Young said. “Most officers
are working special assigmnents for alumni related events.”

Fraternity parties, however, also provided a forum for
former and current students to mingle.

“I think the alumni should mix more with the students,”
Dunn said. “Students are the Spirit of the University.”

—-Peter Quackenbush contributed to this article

Task force formed

Students, faculty discuss presence of drugs on campus

KICK OFF. Poston Brown Project performed for customers at ]avapalooza’s
Habitat for Humanity kick-off in the BDG quad last Monday night. Agents of
Good Roots performed as well. Students and faculty alike gathered in the quad
to enjoy the spring weather, listen to music, visit with friends and sample coffee

l\t.m' GUY/The rig-rrm pr;
and ice cream. Javapalooza will continue on Monday nights throughout the
term. Upcoming bands will include The Derek Trucks Band, Jah Works,
Ringsend, and ]immie’s Chicken Shack. javapalooza meets from 7:30-10:30
each Monday night. The rain location is Doremus Gym.

BY IMRAN NAEEMULLAH AND
MATIHEW MCDERMOTT
ASST. f\7E\‘t’S EDITOR & EDlT()R—IN—CHlEF

Washington and Lee’s Alcohol
Task Force birthed a students—and-
staff subcommittee on illegal drugs.

“[We] discuss drugs
on campus, centering on
felony drugs and ap-
proaching them,” said
sophomore Ansel Sanders,
a task force member.

Dean of Students
David Howison asked
Sanders to join the comrnit—
tee Winter Term.

Other members include
senior Rob Naftel, sopho-
more Jackie Green, fresh-
man Catherine Stroud and
third-year law Sandy

director of University
Health Services.

“We are using the same three-
pronged approach we did for alcohol:
education and prevention, evaluation
and treatment, and discipline.” ,

“There’s been a lot of fact ﬁnd-
ing,” Sanders added, mentioning the
CORE survey and information pro-
vided by Horton and Health Educa-

PRIDE

COURTESY PR1 D E
BE PROUD. Seniorjustin Arnold and Tom Ziegler, theater
professor, received the Anece F. McCloud Excellence in
Diversity Award. The award is  to members of the
I‘ Washington and Lee community who have demonstrated
a personal commitment to promoting diversity awareness,
acceptance, and appreciation through various means and
on various levels of campus life. Each year a member of the
ﬁculty or administration and the student body is recognized
for his or her efforts in  Washington and Lee a more
diversity-conscious and hospitable environment. Anece F.
McCloud was a former W&L Associate Dean of Students,
creator of PRIDE (Promoting Respect for the Individual
through Diversity in Education), and served on the Virginia
Network for Women Leaders

E-mail news briefs to

$5

Gener

Nabors to host Service Day

Nabors Service League will
host its annual Service Day on Sat-
urday, May ll. The day will com-
mence at 10:45 a.m. with brunch in
the BDG Quad, which will run until
noon. Service activities will begin
at noon. Among other things, a car-
nival with be held with the W&L
chapter of Omicron Delta Kappa, an
honor society dedicated to leader-
ship.

In addition, volunteers will work
with animals, children, senior citizens,
paint houses, wash cars, and do yard
work. Sign—up will run until May 10.
Interested participants can either reg-
ister in front of the co—op, or online, at
http://volunteer.wlu. edir/
NSDSignup.html. '

W&L Law advances in rank

Washington and Lee University’s
School of Law is ranked the 18th best
legal program in the nation——rnoving up
from #20 last year, according to new
rankings by U.S. News & World Report.

The new rankings show W&L’s
School of Law———Vrrginia’s only private
one in the Top 50—gaining ground on
the University of Vrrginia’s law school,
which tied with three other schools for
7th place. W&L also tied for #18 with
three other law schools -— those at the
universities of Iowa, Minnesota and

 

Southern California.

“Our advanced standing this year
is signiﬁcant,” said W&L Law School
Dean David F. Partlett. “The indicators
used by U.S. News that bear on the
quality of student life and the quality
of legal education are extremely favor-
able to Washington and Lee. The hard
work of the law school bears fruit in
these rankings and in many other
ways.” ‘

“Our student-law faculty ratio of 1 l-
to-1 is second only to Yale’s,” added
Partlett, who previously headed
Vanderbilt’s law school.

Washington and Lee’s School of
Law also has been named by The Na-
tional Jurist as one of the top three “best
value” legal programs at private univer-
sities in the country.

Art gallery features student

Until the end of May, there will
be a show at the Nelson Gallery on
Washington Street. It will feature
the work of two students, one of
whom is Bentley Knight, a senior
at Washington and Lee. She will be
included in the show along with
another art student Southern Vir-
ginia College.

The show will include works in
several different media and include
portraits, still lifes, and landscapes.
All works displayed at the show will
be available for sale.

 
 

Ho\x'1s<).\'~

tor Jan Kaufman.

“We have no speciﬁc end goal,”
said Howison. “We view this as a work
in progress.”

The drug task force, which meets
every Friday, will report to the Board
of Trustees in May.

“It’s really a progress
report,” said Sanders, rather
than formal suggestions..

The drug task force is
focusing on “felony
drugs,” Sanders said.

“It’s something that
Dean Howison and the rest
of the committee felt
needed to be addressed.”

So far, the committee
has not “found anything
that has really surprised
me,” Howison said.

Howison did not men-

Hooper. tion any specifics on W&L
“We are approaching drug use.

drugs the way we did a1co— “We have discovered

hol,” said Dr. Jane Horton, that drug use in high school

in some parts of the coun-
try has increased dramati-
cally,” Howison said. So drugs are the
logical next step in our efforts as we
move away from alcohol.

“However, we are in the early
stages yet, and much work remains to
be done.”

“We are taking it step by step in
our meetings,” Sanders said.

Virus pillages W&Lcomputers

BY PETER DJALIEV
INTERNET IEZDITOR

A dangerous computer virus swept through
campus beginning last week and caused a great
number of computers to malfunction. Its common
name is Klez and it spreads mostly via e—mail as
small executable programs attached to the mail
messages. According to Morris Trimmer from the
University Computing department, the W&L
GroupWise e—mail system receives about 800 mes-
sages daily infected with the Klez virus.

The ﬁle is found in a number in variants
(W32.Klez.E@mm, W32.Klez.H@mm,
W32.ElKem.3587, and W32.Elkem.4926). It is a
worm, i.e. once it executes itself on the hard
disk of a computer, it starts copying itself con-
stantly in the local ﬁles. It attempts to delete all
anti—virus deﬁnitions ﬁles. In fact, Klez usually
blocks completely Norton Antivirus, the most
popular anti—virus program on campus, and
causes it to stop functioning. Then virus starts
replicating on both the local computer and on
all network drives the local computer is attached
to (H:\, K:\, L:\ drives, etc.). The virus also
searches through all ﬁles for e—mail addresses
and sends an e—mail to the addresses found.
The message usually has a random subject that
contains virus alerts or text urging the user to
open the message. The virus attaches itself to
the message as a small executable ﬁle with a
random ﬁlename.

Besides spreading itself very eﬂiciently, the
virus is quite dangerous. First, it slows down sub-
stantially all running programs because it con-
stantly replicates itself and in this way takes up a
portion of the capacity of the processor. Most
importantly, it attempts to corrupt/destroy certain
types of files or all ﬁles on the local computer on
the sixth or the thirteenth of each odd month (Jan,
March, May. . .). The exact action the virus per-
forms depends on the variant of the virus.

Fighting this virus is difﬁcult because of
the speed with which it spreads around cam-

pus. Despite the enormous number of hours
University Computing support staff have spent
during the last few days on preventing and clean-
ing virus infections from the campus network,
the responsibility of keeping the virus away lies
personally in you. Do not open any suspicious
programs that come attached to e—mail messages.
Users with Microsoft Outlook do not even have
to open the attached program because, due to a
security bug in Microsoft Outlook, the virus ex-
ecutes itself when the user opens the infected
message. You should always keep an anti-virus
program running and update the virus deﬁni-
tions frequently (at least once per week or two).
If your anti—virus program suddenly crashes and
your computer slows down, you should turn it
off and contact the HelpDesk (x4357 or
helpdesk@ wlu.edu) for assistance. Users run-
ning Microsoft Outlook should update the soft-
ware on the site of Microsoft: (http://
www.microsoft.cornltechnetlsecuritylbulletinl
MS01—020.asp)

Unfortunately, some people on campus do
not fully realize the danger they cause by not
taking those simple precautions. Because the
virus also infects W&L’s network and e—mail
servers, the University Computing department
is adopting specific policies to fight the spread-
ing infection. The department uses the network
addresses encoded in the e—mail messages and
tracks down the users spreading the virus. Then
it contacts those users and requests from them
to clean the virus from their computers or to
bring them to the HelpDesk to have them disin-
fected. If a user fails to comply with the request,
he could be disconnected from the campus net-
work and denied service of all network resources
the university is offering (e—mail and storage
space on network drives) until his computer is
disinfected and is no longera threat to the secu-
rity of other users on the network.

If you have any suspicions that your personal
computer can be infected or any questions, feel free
to contact the HelpDesk staff for assistance.

 

 

PAGE 2

White House
must reexamine

War strategies

Bush too muddled in combating
tenonsm, should let mlitary handle the lighting

When I’m playing a game of poker, I try not to let
others see my cards, save I reveal my strategy for win-
ning. President Bush should do the same, as he en-
gages in the War on Terror, as some of his speeches
and actions would cast serious doubt upon the rnis—
sions of the War on Terror—which should be to pro-
tect the national security of the United States of America
and bring members of the al Qaeda network to justice.

In one of his recent speeches, Bush ambigu-
ously referred to a group of countries he called
“the axis of evil.” Is the “axis of evil” simply Iraq,
Iran, and North
COMMON SENSE l(orea, or does it

include moderate
oNArIIAN WoRrHAM‘04 countries such as

Jordan and Egypt?
In every speech concerning this delicate issue,
the President has to make his intentions clear.

Arab television is trying to portray Bush as a
war-hungry crazy man, who is trying to wage war
on Islam. He, thus, should not make speeches that
will appear on Arab television, promising to de-
stroy an ambiguously defined “axis of evil.”

Many Americans are very self—righteous when
they approach the Middle Eastern conﬂicts. But, the
fact is, that public displays of distaste for the United
States are well-founded. This country supports Israel,
an institution, which many countries in the region think
threatens their national security.

When Israeli Prime Minister Ariel Sharon sent
tanks to Palestinian settlements, how would the
average person not think the United States was
involved in some way?

The war on Terrorism is a necessary war. We have
to root out terrorism and destroy terrorist networks.
Osarna bin Laden has to be found, and his al Qaeda
network should be destroyed. And, as Bush said, any
country that harbors or gives refuge to bin Laden and
his terrorist network “should share in their fate.”

But, as we proceed in this campaign, we should
not neglect the diplomatic side. It is General T ommy
Frank’sjob to destroy any “axis of evil.” It is Bush’s
job to smooth the road while Frank’s does this.

Bush should stress the statements he made in his
first speech about the terrorist attacks: “We did not ask
for this war’ ’ and “We will not allow people from without
to destroy our way of life.” Bush should be trying to
inspire the cooperation of Arab nations instead of label-
ing them as an “axis of ev' .”

 
 

UOTE OF THE WEEK:

THE; Rim-'r‘i:tI PH;

PINIONS

  

ANDREWALATIMER ’'

OPINIONSEDITOR
EMAH.-IArrt1ERA@wIiiEDU

MONDAY, MAY 6, 2002

Path totoleration does notpass through Black Studies program

One month ago in the April Fools is-
sue of The Ring-tum Phi, the lead satirical
piece was a story on Al Sharpton’s being
elected the new President of Washington
and Lee University instead of the actual
President-elect, Thomas G Burish.

The intention of the piece was to pro-
voke laughter because Sharpton would be
a horrible choice. It worked
because people under-
stood that Sharpton and
his cronies like Jesse Jack-
son are nothing but frauds,
advancing an agenda that is at best self-
victirnizing and at worst, blatantly racist.

That said, however, not everyone sees
Sharpton as a joke. Indeed, the concept of
civil rights is a noble one and Sharpton pro-
fesses to advance this agenda for the ben-
efit of minorities everywhere, in particular
black people. The sad thing is that Sharpton
goes about his task by perpetuating the false
notion that black people are unable to help
themselves and need a “leg up.”

Witness Sharpton’s support for black
reparations, aﬂirrnative action, and, critically,
his advocacy of black studies programs.

The recent departure of Harvard professor
Comel West for Princeton University because
of his row with Harvard President Larry Sum-
mers overWest’s alleged lack of scholarship best
exempliﬁes the ridiculousness of the version of
civil rights promoted by this crowd: West had
failed to live up to the standards of Harvard,
plain and simple, yet he used the labels 0 “rac-

 

“When McDerrnott

‘talks’about sports.”
-David M. Crowell ‘O4

RIGHT-WING RESPONSE
IMRAN NAEEMULLAH ‘05 “neutrality” to the tradi-

 

“I’m only here to find a

—Katie J. Howell ‘O4

ist” and “anti-diversity? ’ to defend his cause.

With this highly publicized case of bla-
tant stupidity in the field, would it not seem
logical that people would see black stud-
ies programs as a bad idea?

Apparently not among certain fac-
tions. Black Female Alliance chair and
sophomore Marinda Harrell recently wrote
a piece in the Trident call-
ing for a black studies
program at W&L, citing its

tional type of W&L stu-
dent and the fact that the women’s studies
program is well—respected.

She also explains that she wants the pro-
gram not just for her and her friends, but for
everyone. Well, of course. No program of stud-
ies at any university should have the prerequi-
site that one be of a particular race. That said, I
realize that Ms. Harrell does not advocate that
bizarre idea; however, she does fall prey to the
inane thinking of Sharpton and company.

In asserting the need for a black stud-
ies program, she says, “The days of only
teaching European and white male history
should be buried away.” W&L already got
the message, offering courses like “The Rise
of Modern Japan,” “History of Southern
Africa from the 17th Century,” “The Indian
Subcontinent,” and “Imperial China.”

Ms. Harrell states that the purpose of the
Black Studies program is to “introduce students
to the history, culture, and society, and political
and economic conditions of Black people in


Cir.»

husband.”

  

“The night time is the
right time.”
—Catherine C. Guy ‘04

Africa, the Americas, and elsewhere in the
world.” She refers to “the Black experience.” In
a way, she is right. After all, to use the example
of slavery creating separate communities, white
people were not slaves in this country.

However, slavery is a part of American his-
tory as a whole, and is already addressed in the
context of US history courses all the way down
to the elementary school level. Moreover, W&L
offers specialized courses on slavery and the
Civil War, as well as the Civil Rights movement.

Combine this with courses on African his-
tory (which is obviously legitimate), and what
more could the black studies program want? It
seems that the only thing lacking is a major,
and perhaps an introductory level course to
explain the need for a formal label, “Introduc-
tion to Black History (Since We Want It To Be
So Different From Regular History)”

Perhaps what Ms. Harrell (and her
friends) should realize is that instead of cru-
sading for a black studies program, they should
sit back and look at themselves. If tl1ey’re so
interested in courses that are pertinent to the
world around us, why aren’t they enrolled ir1
History 195A: Himalayan Hatreds?

That course, which I am in, explores the
simmering conﬂict between India and Pakistan,
two nuclear powers that have fought three wars
in 50 years, and came close to another one last
year. I recall that the minority population at this
school is approximately 12 percent, but with all
due respect, why is almost everyone in the class
from Texas? Surely, such an important issue-
far more pertinent to the world populace at large

“The ulcers.”
-Andrew Latimer ‘O5

 

than a course on “the Black experience” (I’m
still not really sure what this means)—deserves
much attention.

Fmally,andIknowthisisreallyaminor
point, but why can’t Ms. Harrell learn how to
spellmynameproperiy?Iknowthatshe’s trying
to paint me as a comedian (really, I’m not), but
still,Idon’tneedthe stage name “Nameullah.”I
likeNaeemullah just ﬁne, thankyou.

Moreover, Naeemullah is an ethnic Paki-
staninamewithArabroots. I seemtorernember
a certain black sophomore who got very of-
fended when I mispronounced her ethnic name
at the diversity panel; if she can get mad, then
socanI.Forthatmatter,Imayaswellgetmadat
everyone who refers to people of my faith as
“Islams” or “Islarnics.”

To counter this misconception, which
probably points to a broader misunderstand-
ing and lack of knowledge about the Mus-
lim faith, I could even call for ar1Arab Stud-
ies program, a Southeast Asian Studies pro-
gram, a Muslim Studies program, and per-
haps even a Spelling Studies program.

Yet, I don’t. It seems that the only people
still clamoring for a specialized program where
there is no need for one are the people who
are afraid to step out of the victirnist ideol-
ogy trap and into the real world of a shared,
common history that does not need labels.

Speaking of being in tune with the times,
Ms. Harrell might ﬁnd it wise to identify the
issues that really matter, instead of pursuing a
specious program of studies that in the end,
will benefit no one, least of all black people.

 

 

“I do it for the little

people.”
-Matthew B. McDermot1 ‘04

“THAr’s MALE PORNOGRA—
PHY WITH DREW IN IT!”

“Miss GUY, I DO NOT NEED TO KNOW
ABOUT YOUR PERSONAL LIFE.”

— ANONYMOUS W&LIFE EDITOR
BEING VICIOUSLY REBUKED BY ANONY-
MOUS EDlTOR—IN-CHIEF.

Editor-in-chief
Associate Editor
Asst. News Editor
Opinions Editor
Editor-in-exile
W&Life Editor

Sports Editor

Photo Editor
Photographer
Business Manager
Circulation Manager
Asst. Business Manager
Advertising Manager
Internet Editor

Mattl1ewB.McDermott
Katie J. Howell
Imran Naeemullah
Andrew A. Latimer
Brett T. Kirwan
Catherine C. Guy
David M. Crowell
Mary E. Guy

J eb Brooks

Paul A. Seifert
Brian Castleberry
Emily Barker
William Litton
Peter L. Djalaliev

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during
the undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee
University, Lexington, Virginia. The Washington and
Lee Publications Board elects the Editor-in-chief, but
The Ring-tum Phi is otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible sub-
missions and letters. All submissions must be e-mailed
to phi@wlu.edu or in the University Center mailbox
by 5 p.m. Friday to appear in the following week’s
edition. The Ring-tum Phi reserves the right to edit sub-
missions for content and length. Letters and columns do
not necessarily reﬂect the opinion of the Ring-tum Phi
Editorial Board. Advertising does not reﬂect the opin-
ions of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper
observes current court deﬁnitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Mailing Address: University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Street Address: 31 Washington Street
Lexington, Wrginia 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Fax: (540) 462-4059
Email: phi@wlu.edu
http://phi.wlu.edu

Annual Subscription Rate: $30



Spring Term resolutions

Spring Term allows tradition to smoothly slide
away, lubricated by readily available alcohol. New
resolutions are made, and Phi staffers have gra-

ciously consented to share theirs.

One of our Amazonian lady-editors (who,
frankly, towers over her Lilliputian counterparts like
a telephone pole in a daisy patch) recently bemoaned
the fact that tall women can’t date shrirnpy men.

Really, there’s no shortage of reasons why

FOR RENT

3-bedroom furnished apartment,
off—street parking, 5 minutes on
foot from Washington Hall.
$600/month; utilities not included.
One-year lease.
Please call 463-7044 after 5 pm.

American Red Cross Class
Community First Aid and Safety
Infant;/Child Adult CPR

Doremus Gymnasium 500-level classroom

6 to 10 PM each evening
For more infomation contact:

Standard r-rrst Aid "
May 9 and 16
Red Cross Ofﬁce

Waynesboro, VA
540/943-4511

puny obstacles like height and relative shoulder-
width should not interfere in affairs of love.This
editor, however, has decided against shin-sanding
and other unpleasant cosmetic surgeries.

Her Spring Term resolution is to start looking
up, or, rather, down, at the many suitable (if verti-
cally-challenged) prospects available.

A younger editor previously abhorred making
trips to the Co-operational Facility of Glory. Why
should he walk one mile to bring other people, al-
beit his elders and betters, confectionaries and sug-
ared drinks? However, realizing that his promotional
chances depend on unquestioning menial labor, his
Spring Term resolution is not to complain audibly.

His predecessor, a vulture capitalist, reguarly
croaked out the advantages of sweatshops and im-
perialism. The Phi’s editorial board ultimatedly de-
cided to enroll this man into sensitivity training. Af-
ter several f1fteen—hour days with a dedicated, hands-
on deprograrnrner, this former social parasite has rec-
ognized the error of his running-dog ways.

His Spring Term resolution is to spend Fall
Term in China, enjoying the simple pleasures of a
worker’s paradise, imbibing the great teachings
of Chairman Mao and accepting the inevitable
establishment of a Marxist-Leninist utopia.

Another spry young editor recently returned
from a long walk on the beach and decided that it
was time to put down roots. Long known as the
Lothario of the road-cheese schools, our
Cassanova’s spring term resolution is to only date
W&L girls. Concentrate the wealth, baby!

One of our most powerful editors, a South-
erner (if there were any doubt), disapproves of
the anti-sharecropping movement that has recently
percolated down to 215‘ century Mississippi. Along
with air conditioning and women’s suffrage, she
feels this development threatens the cultural foun-
dations of a once-great state.

Her Spring Term resolutionisto reestablish W&L’ s
deftmct Sharecropping Anti-Defamation League.

Let’s all make a difference, shall we?

R'\\‘

   
   
  

Open Seven Days A Week 0 11am - 10pm
Visa 0 l\iasterCard 0 Discover 0 American Express

  4

Take Out or Eat In
Free Delivery to Lexington Area

540-463-3330
E. Nelson Street, Lexington
Every Sunday Lunch Buffet! From 11A.M. - 2:30 RM.

 
   

Great Student Rental for rent Undergrads or Law Students.

Available 2002-2003

Two stories, two apartments, up to six people. Ping Pong Room
and TV Room. Large yard and very private.

4 people: $300 per person, 5 people: $225, 6 people: $200.

Call 463-7168 or evenings 348-6908

QIt0Q00I0009COOO00Q0COGOOOOOOQOQIOOOIOOIOOOOOQODQIOOQO!Q00

OOOUOOOOOC0000OCOOOOJOOOOOOOOCOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO

I

 

 

  

 C. GUY
W&LlPEEDl’lOR
Emu; GtYc@wLL.rnt

lfloNDAY, MAY 6, 2002

W&LlFE

Cadavers amp up activity on campus

BY HILARY HENRY
STAFF WRITER

A Students and faculty alike are
amazed by the numerous Cadaver ban-
ners and spray painted skulls all over
campus this year. The Cadaver Society
is a secret group that no one around cam-
pus knows much about, except its mem-
bers, who don’t talk about their group’s
mission or identity. Everyone does know
that this year, the group’s symbol, a skull
«inside the letter “c”, has appeared ev-
erywhere — from sorority house columns
to the construction site at Reid Hall. “We
have increased our activity recently —
solely for the purpose of letting the cam-
pus know that there is a Cadaver Soci-
ety. .. all we want for people to know is
that it is a friend of the university,” said
one Cadaver who asked not to be identi-
/ﬁed in order to protect the anonymity of
the secret society.

The increased activity this year
“comes from the frustration with Build-
ings and Grounds for not allowing our
signs to stay up past 8 a.m.,” said the
Cadaver, who explained that the Cadav-
ers are annoyed when their posters are
cleaned up before moming classes.

The Cadaver said that the whole se-
cret society would like to see, “the signs
stay up for half a day. . . the banners stay
up for half a day.” Security Director Mike
érung estimates that this year the Ca-

vers’ have caused “a couple thousand

dollars of damage. . . stupid damage.”
This is a dramatic increase from the usual
damage, which he estimates runs in the
hundreds of dollars per year to repair.

Physical Plant Director Scott Beebe
agreed with Young’s damage assess-
ments without commenting on the exact
cost of the repairs. Beebe says he’s “not
happy at all with [this year’s activity]...
someone has to clean it up and that’s my
department.”

Beebe hates to see permanent dam-
age to the campus, like when white wash-
able paint is used on the historic red build-
ings of the Colonnade. He expressed
hope that the Cadavers would ﬁnd bet-
ter ways to express themselves than,
“defacing buildings and putting my em-
ployees at pe ' 

“We took measures to correct. . . the
damage at the sorority houses,” the Ca-
daver said without going irrto the specif-
ics of how they helped. But he ackr1owl—
edged that tracking mud through the so
rority house was, “a bad idea — but an
accident.”

Young has been at Washington and
Lee for eleven years and he calls this
year’s “maneuvers”, “more aggressive”
than any other year he’s witnessed. He
said that he was especially unhappy with
the attacks on the sorority houses and
the Reid Hall construction site.

The Cadaver apologized for the ac-
cident of tracking mud through the so-
rority houses and using black window

chalk on the white columns. The Cadaver
also told me that the window chalk was,
“not intended to be permanent.”

“Its not going to beneﬁt them, not
going to benefit their cause and will
cause grief for others,” Young said of
their more destructive attacks earlier this
year. Movement within residence halls,
construction sites or the sorority houses
is not acceptable, Young declared.

When asked if he planned to go
after them, Young said no, explaining
however that he has ways of contacting
the secret society. He says that while
Campus Security will not go after the
black—robed Cadavers, VMI security and
the Lexington Police have less tolerance
for the vandals and their loud late—night
romping through town. The Cadavers
never try to deface VlVlI property, but
VMI security won’t tolerate the noisy
bunch if they wander over next door. He
also warns the Cadavers that he isn’t
going to protect them from the police if
they continue their rowdiness.

“We’re working on trying to chan-
nel [this year’s insurgence of creativity]
in the right way,” the Cadaver said, “We
give tens of thousands of dollars every
year to the university. We want to bring
awareness to the fact that there is a Ca-
daver Society out there and we have the
ur1iversity’s best interest in mind.”

Young has another concern with re-
gards to the Cadavers: safety. He says
he will have them charged for trespass-

I

F.

In the April 29 issue: Traveller is a Safe Rid
nights a week and until 2 AM the other
developed based on one of the founding princ'
responsibility for their actions. If you choose to
that is why Traveller is here: to empower eve’

The front page article “Music industry seeks Intern

 
   
     

 

Naeemullah.

ber Ride Program, and runs until 4 AM three
quote should have been ‘Traveller was
that is that every student should take personal
uld always choose to get a safe ride home! And
 0 take a safe ride home, 7 nights per week.”

ernates” was written by Peter Djalaliev, not Imran

as that are air. .
ii tire ttrae-a.tr':;»es far téise 5

ing if he catches them within the con-
struction site again. He doesn’t think
this will be a problem because in his ex-
perience, once the group has been
warned to avoid an area, it does. How-
ever, he is worried that they could get
hurt running around the dark campus
with the limited vision provided by their
masks.

The Cadaver, when asked about
safety, responded, “We’re a pretty agile
group. . . there is no drinking involved. . .
we’re not trying to be a daring group —
wekeepourownbestinterestisinmind.”

Dean Howison, who has been at
Washington and Lee for twelve years,
has had a similar response from the
group. He said that a few years ago, the
Colonnade colurrms were covered in Ca-
daver signs. He asked the president of
the student body to tell the Cadavers
not to post signs on the Colonnade
again, and to Howison’s knowledge,
they haven’t.

Despite the yearly damages, many
W&L students, faculty and alumni still
support the secret society. Dean
Howison, like many others with Cadaver
run-ins, describes his interactions with
them as “absolutely amusing.”

While many faculty members con-
cede that their presence on campus is
“an annoyance,” as John Gurm, a mem-
ber of the faculty emeriti, said, they are
an accepted tradition on campus that
no one wants to see end.

 i\&.4iN!.A,. ' ‘l§’§?...E9E!3§§iF§’E=’  *-
?°!t%i;!€i‘.§§«’*'<‘ (i.1“M’5?’i._§ ‘*(’°E‘3%-(it is §‘~"’l‘~1’!lI’.'1”s£'-V

A few faculty are alarmed by
the spray paint, hoping that this year’s
destructive activities are a one-time oc-
currence and not a trend. “Its one thing
to spread paper around... but spray
cans are a bit of a menace,” said Profes-
sor Holt Merchant of the History De-
partrnent.

The consensus seems to be that
the Cadavers add a sense of mystery
and tradition to our campus. According
to Mame Warren’s book, Come Cheer,
The Cadaver Society is, “a social club
dedicated to providing anonymous fi-
nancial assistance to W&L” and formed
in 1957.

John Gurm, who arrived on faculty
in the same year that the Cadaver’s re-

 

PAGE 3

MXRY GuY/ THE Rmc-1

portedly were formed, says that the Ca-
davers are, “less conspicuous now than
it used to be” as he recalled the extreme
secrecy with which they originally oper-
ated under. They are still secret today,
but a little more visible. Myths abound,
with wide-ranging claims about the
Cadaver’s mission, make-up and history.
Some people think that they are merely a
drinking society and others attribute to
them huge donations to the school. No
one wants them to leave, but some want
them to clean up their act. Dean Howison
summed up the feeling of many around
campus, when he said that he wanted
them to continue with, “creative but non-
destructive ways” of spreading their pres-
ence.

~l‘}§.#5ils’§?3.}§§E§.L5{’Y: l§¢f;.3¥MZl%
82A <- hiilﬁifi

swarm“ t¥;t$§.¥f:%’é{3‘?£’ﬁ£‘«t  -» raxzaeere-a’ « aim

 

cann le

Friday, May 17, 7:30 pm.

 
  
   

Doe 'ts’o11i _
‘Sunday,,May 26, '7 :30 pm.

Tix & Information
Www.theaterat1imekiln.com
or call 540-463-3074

- .

T L . as-..'..

 
 
    

 

 
      

._ cxington. Virginia
~ Where entertainment comes naturally

  Kath cane} at
The Clinch Mt. Boys
Sunday, May 19, 7:30 pm.

    Janis Ian
Sunday, June 2, 7:30 pm.

,>}‘\\>’

  
   
     

 

 

 

Tara Ra:;o~rttAi Phi

MONDAY, MAY 6, 2002

Generals

MAR\' GU\'/ T/Je Ring-11/211 P/Ii
SENIOR DAY: Senior John Moore attempts to wheel around
his opponent in the Generals’ 13-5 victory over Division II
Limestone on Saturday Moore scored two goals in the victory.

eave Saints without a prayer; Widener up next,

 

DAWD M Crtottﬁr
SPORISEDHOR
ExiA1i;otoorA1iD@vrrnroU

BY DAVID CROWELL
SPORTS EDITOR

The Washington and Lee men’s lacrosse team used an
eight-goal spurt over the span of three periods in order to
build a 12-4 lead and coast to a 13-5 victory over Division
H Limestone on Saturday afternoon.

The game was the regular season ﬁnale for W&L and
also the ﬁnal career regular season game for eight seniors,
who received pregame recognition.

The Generals (12-3), ranked fourth in the latest Divi-
sion III poll, thoroughly dominated the Saints in the first
period, racking up four goals by utilizing precise passing
and winning key ground balls.

Senior John Moore opened the scoring at the 13:57
mark, tallying an unassisted goal. Senior co—captain An-
drew Barnett followed a little over a minute later with his
own score after receiving a great interior feed from fresh-
man Gavin Molinelli.

Sophomore Matt Fink rounded out the run, picking up
a ground ball in front of the net and easily putting it past
Limestone’s Matt Malloy to take a 4-0 lead.

To coach Mike Cerino, who led Limestone to a Divi-
sion H national title in 2000, the offensive outburst was no

Hagerman earns South Regional honors

FROM STAFF REPORTS

Washington and Lee freshman Lindsay Hagerman
added to her season accolades by being named the Atlan-
tic South Region Rookie of the Year by the Intercollegiate
Tennis Association (ITA) earlier this week.

Hagerman, currently the 14”’ ranked singles player in
Division III, already earned All-ODAC honors at No. 1
singles after posting a 20-4 record and similar recognition
at No. 2 doubles, where she played with either Manning
Willard or Sallie Gray Strang, both seniors, and accumu-
lated a combined 19-3 record.

Hagerman is the ﬁrst General to earn Atlantic South
Region Rookie of the Year since 1998, when teammate
Melissa Hatley earned the award.

As one of four regional winners, Hagerman moves to
the national ballot, where she will be considered for NCAA
Division IH National Rookie of the Year honors.

Generals place 5 on all-conference squads

The Washington and Lee women’s lacrosse team placed
ﬁve players on the All-Old Dominion Athletic Conference
(ODAC) team this Thursday, with four players earning
First Team recognition.

Senior defenders Eloise Priest and Julie Carskadon and
junior defender Sarah Janowitz all earned First Team All-
ODAC honors after forming the nucleus of a defense that
allowed less than eight goals per game.

Priest, a preseason First Team All-American, picked up
35 ground balls and caused a team-high 41 turnovers.
This was her third straight selection to the first team.

Carskadon earned her ﬁrst all-conference nod after tal-
lying 13 goals and four assists and leading the Generals
with 73 ground balls.

J anowitz followed up a Second Team All-ODAC selec-
tion last season by amassing 48 ground balls and causing
38 turnovers.

Junior attacker Leslie Bogart also earned First Team
All-ODAC accolades after being a second team pick as a
freshman. Bogart led the Generals in scoring with 58
points and also broke the single-season record for as-

sists with 42.

Sophomore attacker Kelly Taﬁfe rounded out the honorees
by garnering Second Team All-ODAC honors. Taffe led the
Generals with 38 goals and amassed 48 points on the season.

Randolph-Macon senior midfielder Erin Riedy earned
ODAC Player of the Year honors.

Cerino named top conference coach

Coach Mike Cerino led a list of Washington and Lee
honorees when the Old Dominion Athletic Conference
named its postseason all-conference teams and additional
awards on Thursday afternoon.

Cerino, in his first season at W&L, earned ODAC Coach
of the Year honors after leading the Generals to an 12-3
regular season record, the ODAC Tournament Champion-
ship and an NCAA Division III Tournament berth.

In addition, six Generals earned all-conference acco-
lades, led by senior attacker Andrew Barnett, junior
defenseman Matt Conners and senior defenseman Eric
Kontargyris, who all earned First Team All-ODAC honors.-

Barnett, a preseason Honorable Mention All-Ameri-
can, earned honorable mention honors last season. He
ﬁnished second on the squad in scoring in 2002, picking
up 40 points on 29 goals and 11 assists.

Conners and Kontargyris anchored a W&L defense
that allowed a Division HI-leading 5.47 goals per game.
Conners, a preseason Third Team All-America pick, earned
his ﬁrst all-conference selection.

Kontargyris was named to the second team last sea-
son and also earned Honorable Mention All—America ac-
colades in 2001.

Sophomore goalie Ansel Sanders, in his ﬁrst year as a
starter, and junior midfielder Tom Melanson earned Sec-
ond Team All-ODAC honors, while sophomore Matt Fink
was named to the honorable mention team.

Sanders posted a .617 save percentage and ranks sec-
ond in Division III in goals-against—average (5.62).

Melanson won 64 per cent of his faceoffs, tallied nine
points, and led W&L with 102 ground balls. He is a pre-

season First Team All-America selection.

Fink led the Generals in scoring with 47 points on 35
goals and 12 assists in his first season as a starter.

 
  

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
   
  

 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  

  

 
 

surprise.
“We’ve been playing that way down the stretch of the
season and I feel like we kept that momentum,” he said.
The Generals displayed a few bad tendencies over the next
12 minutes, showing some sloppy passing and a failure to
capitalize on offensive opportunities. The Saints, the No. 3
team in Division 11, used these lapses to even the score at four.
“I think we got a bit too comfortable with the lead,
which is something we tend to do,” Cerino said. “That’s
the sign of a young team. Although we have some se-
niors, we still have a lot of sophomores in the offense and
it showed a little bit. We lost our concentration level.”
The Generals rediscovered its concentration with
some prodding from the coaching staff and closed the
first half with three scores by Moore and sophomores
Dustin Martin and Mike McNamara to take a 7-4 lead.
On Moore’s score, he easily oulmaneuvered his defender
in order to tally his second goal of the day. For the four-year
veteran, everything is coming in to place at the right time.
“I feel very conﬁdent with where we’re at,” Moore said.
“I think my game has gotten better throughout the season
and I think our offense is clicking right now. We’re fired
up to play some great tournament games.”
The Generals came out strong in the second half, scor-

BY IAN R. MCILROY
SPORTS WRITER

On Saturday, the Washington
and Lee women’s lacrosse team
ended their season with a hard-
fought 12-5 loss to Longwood Col-
lege at the Liberty Hall Fields.

Discounting a stretch of six
straight goals for Longwood mid-
way through the first period, the
Generals held their own against the
top-ranked team in NCAA Division
II.

With scores from sophomore at-
tacker Stephanie Haldy and senior
midﬁelder Emily Owens, the Gener-
als jumped out to an early 2-0 lead.

Longwood, however, quickly
rallied to a 3-3-tie midway through
the half. The undefeated Lancers
then proceeded to roll off six
straight goals to take a 9-3 lead late
in the first half.

Scoring just before the break, the
Generals trailed by merely ﬁve goals
at halftime. Unfortunately for the
Generals, Longwood added three
more goals early in the second half
to cement the victory.

Despite coming off a narrow
overtime loss in the ODAC final the
previous week, the Generals fought

goal.

saves.

ing for the Generals by posting one

In net for the Generals, sophomore
goalie Joanna Perini recorded 12

PAGE "4

ing the only two goals of the third period, and limiting the
Saints to one goal over 30 minutes of play. W&L cruised in
the fourth period, with Fink scoring two of his three goals.

Sophomore Ansel Sanders frustrated Limestone’s at,-
tack all day, making 13 saves in goal, and drawing praise
from his head coach.

“Ansel played outstanding and it’s key that he’s played
solid back—to-back games today and against Hampden-
Sydney (on April 27),” Cerino said. “A hot goalie, and"%
goalie with a lot of poise, is very important in the tourna-
merit.”

Cerino and the Generals, the third seed in the South
Region, must now focus on said NCAAToumament. W&L
opens up with a game against Widener on Wednesday.
The time and site will be announced. :.

In a grueling tournament, where experience often mat-
ters, the young Generals would seem to be at a disadvan-
tage. Moore, however, shrugs off that assessment. "

“(The seniors) have been in a lot of big games the
younger guys haven’t, but I think our sophomores are
more mature than most sophomores in the league,” Moore
said. “I don’t think they’re going to crack under pressure].
Under our experience and leadership, I think they’ll do
great.”

W&L ﬁnishes with hard-fut loss

M ho’ (iL'\’/T/79 Ring-tum Phi

PUTIIN’ ON THE BRAKES: Sophomore attacker Kelly Taffe tries to elude a defender
during the Generals’ 12-5 defeat to Division II Longwood on Saturday afternoon.
Taffe led W&L by netting a goal and an assist against the Lancers.

gible qualities which will be sorely
missed next year.”

Ending its season with an 11-5
overall record, the Generals ape al-
ready looking forward to incrgased

hard all day long.

“I’m very proud of the team’s
performance today,” said coach Jan
Hathom. “Their play was excellent,
aggressive, and constant.”

In addition to the early scores
from Haldy and Owens, W&L
sophomore midﬁelders Kelly Taffe
and Lee Wheeler each netted a goal
and an assist. Freshman Natalya

Hoobchaak rounded out the scor-

For Owens and other W&L se-
niors Julie Carskadon, Courtenay
Fisher, and Eloise Priest, Saturday
marked the end of their long and bril-
liant college careers.

“Each of our seniors played well
this afternoon and have been strong
leaders throughout the season”
Hathom commented. “Besides their
obvious on-the-ﬁeld contributions,
our seniors possess a lot of intan-

success next spring.

“This team has a good, talented
group of players, but we have often
struggled to put our best play on the
field,” Hathom said. “Yet, we have
learned from these struggles, and are
very excited about next year.”

With 21 returning players and sev-
eral promising freshmen, the W&L
women’s lacrosse team has a bright
future. A

W&L ends season in saw otests 0

BY MICHAEL LEE
SPORTS WRITER

The Washington and Lee baseball team began the
weekend with a pair of games against the Savannah Col-
lege of Art and Design at Smith Field and managed a split.

SCAD began with a single run in the top of the first
inning, but junior first baseman Brian Gladysz and sopho-
more catcher Bryan Mulhem each recorded RBI to give
the Generals the lead at the end of the first.

Mulhem brought in another runner in the third and
Gladysz and sophomore left ﬁelder Dan Kagey brought in
two more, to push the Generals’ lead to 5-1 in the ﬁfth inning.

SCAD cut the Generals’ lead to 5-3 in the top of the
sixth, but W&L responded with a single run in the bot-
tom half. The Bees brought in runners in the seventh and
eighth innings to cut the W&L lead to 6-5, but senior
third baseman Matt Kozora doubled in an insurance run
in the bottom of the eighth.

The Bees responded with a ﬁnal run, but could not over-
come a 7-6 deﬁcit.

Sophomore pitcher Peter Dean earned the victory to
move his record to 6-3. He pitched 7 1/3 innings, allowing
ﬁve runs. Junior Michael Hanson pitched the last 1 2/3
innings to pick up his third save of the season.

Unfortunately, SCAD returned the next afternoon with
vengeance on their minds, and they exacted their pound
of ﬂesh, scoring four runs in the ninth inning to change a
close 4-3 game into an 8-3 victory.

With the score deadlocked at two through ﬁve in-
nings, the Bees scored an unearned run in the top of the
sixth. The Generals responded in the bottom half as fresh-
man pinch hitter Matt Marino hit a sacriﬁce ﬂy to tie the
score again.

The Bees responded with an unanswered run in the
seventh, and then cemented the victory with four more in
the ninth.

r

   

.\lAk\' (1L'\'/ The Rzrrg-rum Pb:
SIDEARM SLING: Sophomore Austin Allain tosses from the
edge of the inﬁeld in W&L’s 8-3 loss to SCAD on Saturdﬁy
afternoon. The Generals finished with a record of 18-15-1.

Kagey pitched 8 1/3 innings, but took the loss. Hanson,
Mulhem, and Kozora paced the Generals offensively with
two hits apiece. )f

W&L ﬁnished their season with a 10-8 defeat at the
hands of Mary Washington on Sunday afternoon. "5

The Generals took a 3-2 lead after junior Bobby Littlehale
doubled home two runs. A three-run homer by senior Todd
Gosselink highlighted W&L’s four-run sixth inning tlfat
led to a 7-5 lead, but the Eagles posted five runs in the ﬁnal
three innings to ensure victory.

Littlehale led the Generals by going 3-for-6 with three
RBI. Gosselink also had three RBI and scored two runs,»

 

 

 

  
   

 

  

 

 
  

 

-1."! ~\

 

 

 

 

  

- . J ‘ Is ' '
 In -, ‘('»J'.i".vC-er*l§='\30"ts?....’V vl  U5‘*l‘.'€-WITY
’Q378~7.‘39   ‘-“A 24050
\/a O 'l"w.;. 'K:'.‘\r;-'l¥‘.\E l"t«.t   I   H ‘ I. H -.  “ I o    o ’    - ﬁt TIE: Rigs.-’i'=,‘:.e P221
M3 INSIDE L .. . y ,   ..  A INDL
C.»2—— ‘D  TA‘ :7 _ ii I T L «_ U - I 7 fNet=:ws l
..   1 SHll\ GTOR AM) El: NIVERSITY ,  .   . .
THE PHI  O1>ii\:<->ms 2
WILI RETURN  Lnss‘ s
I I Y 26TH  1 ’ SP()R'I‘S 4
.1 
. (I) 
\’=rnr::t::»: Ct’, No. ill in  l.lE.f>{§e\'t§'l'(.‘-‘xi,   Eléiétl _ M‘-P-‘~s‘x1‘-"¥>’.3li"-‘A’ 13, 3503
‘ ' ' a poem specially composed for from 34 states and several foreign One fourth of the graduates :-. ‘ -  ' — ‘ , "
   the occasion. ' countries, including Cameroon and having accepted positions in O 
    W&L law students chose Stein Canada. A Washington, DC.
to address the approximately 500 California,Maryland,NewYork, Another 21 percent of the law
I FROM 5"R\l‘l‘ REPORTS people because of his humor, wide Pennsylvania and Virginia have the graduates are going on to presti-
ranging career and his legal work in largest number of students. gious judicial clerkships.
5 Entertainer and lawyer Ben Stein poverty law, libel law, securities and Before pursuing their jurist W&L’s School of Law recently
delivered the commencement ad- federal trade regulations, according to doctorate degrees at W&L, nearly was ranked the 18th best legal pro-
* dress for Washington and Lee the W&L website. 12 percent of this year’s graduates gram in the nation, moving up two
University’s School of Law Sunday Stein, best known for his 'week— had already had earned advanced spots from U. S. News and World
afternoon on the Front Lawn. night television show “Win Ben degrees, including several PhDs. Rep0rt’s previous annual rankings ...... ..
“There is one investment for Stein’s Money,” teaches courses in Others had worked in a va— of the top 50 public and private law
which there are no capital gains tax, politics and law at American Univer- riety of government, corporate schools in the nation.
4 no state tax, no income tax, no estate sity, Pepperdine, and the University and finance positions. Preceding the commencement ex-
tax,” Stein said. “It is investment with of California at Santa Cruz. W&L Law Class of 2002 will ercises was a luncheon for graduates A
the best returns possible: love.” Stein last spoke at W&L dur- soon serve as attorneys with and their families, who also were in— R00l\S TheR1tglu
Stein also discussed regular ing Winter Term 2002. firms and organizations in a vited to a reception following the FRESHLY HATCHED. W&L contributes over 100 new lawyers to the field. After
bowel movements and delivered This ear’s 117 raduates come dozen states. graduation ceremony.’ aduation, the will take rivate and ublic "obs in 12 states.
,i_ Y 2 8‘ Y P P l
0 1 .
Alpha Kappa Alpha   Aldri d g e tal k s  
l I I t' O
%~ ' BY PETER QUACKENBUSH _ ’ _
STAFF WRITER BY l.\N l\lClLROY tion game against the Cuban na-
' ~ ~ Y i tional team.
Inthe upcoming months, Washington and Lee’s snsns ssnns B efore joining MLB
‘ erenty sew may beeemealnne mere erewded Richard “Sandy” Alderson, Alderson worked 17 years for the
A coalition of students is mounting an effort executive vice president for Ma— Oakland Athletics, serving as the
to ad:1Al‘l)’lna1I:sappaA1pne’ the nanenis eldest hls‘ jor League Baseball, will speak on franchise’s general counsel, gen-
toric ly ac sorority, to campus. “Baseball and eral mana and side t.
At a meeting held last Wednesday, the group Labor, Just uworkggﬁg in bgsresbail 2/as not
3, discussed the progress already made and the chal— Outside the Something I had planned on,»
lengeikhnlgte TOad ages: 'd d d Strike Zone.” Alderson admits. “But, I could not
  one
’ ’ ’ s onsored b t "t t k '
. said freshman Olalani Oyegbola. While W&L’s ﬁve Vhashington and h:srehlzilll)s..which wasssdrimporthlnri
‘s sororities contribute a great deal to campus, Leeis Studem_ in my youth»
Oyeghehé stililiga ett)h,e}’ dO nOt meet the needs Of run Contact ALDEON During his tenure in Oakland,
women 0 e lel ' Committee. ‘ the Athl t’ ‘ t d f Ameri-
Shppdrters argued that the new sererhy The speech will touch on a host can Leasgtlises Wsepstusshansiiliionships
1 would eneehrage mere nnnerhy wemen to at’ of issues related to the current state and won the World Series in 1989.
‘ tend W&L‘ Aeeerding to the regisddns es‘ of baseball, Alderson said. The late 80s was an “interesting and
nee’ less than 4 peseent ef tne'nndehgsedhdte' " ’ “l’ll cover the current status of exciting time for the organization ”
pephleden is week‘ the collective bargaining agree— remembersAlderson.“Thatteamhad
. FreshmenKee1eHdrm°hagIeeddnhdhleekse' ment, most critically the need for a lot of personality with Mark
s rend’ wehld iheresse nnhenty Presenee en ed1hPhs' competitive balance between clubs ' McGuire (Jose) Canseco Walt
“I think that dne ef the major hnheffs (fer as well as the possibility of con— Weiss and’(Dennis) Eckersly itmong
ittinorities considering W&L) is that there are traction” Said Alderson “I.” also others_,,
he eldek sehehnes en edmPhs’s Hdhmeh send‘ be discussing more game related Before joining the Oakland A’s,
* She further suggested that the addltlon of 3 topics such as the home run race.” Alderson privately practiced law.
historically black sorority would expand the As executive vice president, Prior to this,'he earned degrees from
eerhPhs’s ehhhrel experienee Alderson reports directly to MLB Dartmouth College and Harvard
The group continued their discussion by President Bob DuPuy and Commis— Law School and served four years
talking about the humanitarian contributions Al— sioner Allan H. “Bud” Selig. with the U.S. Marines, which in-
! pha Kappa Alpha would make to the university.  , Since joining MLB in 1998, cluded a tour of duty in Vietnam.
Sdphemdre Zdldydh Bradford dlsehssed the PH0T0BY.lEBBR00*s/ T’1t’Ri".rWP5i Alderson has overseen baseball op- Alderson now works for MLB in
sororhyis de‘heattOh tO service AKA’s thst ahh is TEARING UP EARTH. Pbi photographers scaled the occurrence at back campus. Construction sounds ciatiohs, umpirihg, on_ficld opera- Now York City_ Ho and his wife Linda
“Se1'V1ee t0 all1'n3I1klTld,” said BT3dfO1'da end 3eh1eVes roof of Leybutn Library to bring W/ashington and have also not been absent, interrupting classes on tioits and security and facility man- have two children.
‘ thls ahh through successful PrOgIathhhhg- Lee this bird’s-eye view of the emerging University the Colonnade. The University Commons, which agcmcim “lt’s not often that you are
The sOrOritY’s signature service PrO.leet is Commons. Mostly finished with the buildings is to contain the new dining hall and club offices, Of the efforts he has spear- able to have a major figure in the
the IV)’ AKAden1Y- _ . foundation, construction workers have erected is scheduled to be completed by Fall Term 2003. headed, Alderson remains most proud world of sports on campus and we
. IYY AKAdethtes ate eOhOat1On Centers vertical support girders. The sight of machines Construction of the new Fine Arts Buildingwaits , of his accomplishments in resolving thought it would add some Vari_
bthlt 1h South Afnea fochslhg Oh human re‘ like this Komatsubackhoe has becorneaconimon on the wings. umpire disputes. ety for a spring term speaker ”
7* sehree development‘ other programs inelhde “I have been successful deal- said Contact Head Chair Sain
ON TRACK, a support system for at—risk chil— _ i ith m -res mer in them L h 1 ~
dren in sehOO1s and Back tO Sleep’ 3 SIDS After enough members have been he" to Afrissn_Amsrissns’” ssld And“ iiitgowonessltlasflf alrsild then dgveslsoping sns‘P(2s1rZticsui:i1l1}(’srat this Point in
awareness PFOgTa1n- erhhed’ they would be given a fun Chapter‘ This “AKA has women sfau sthms g’°.“t’s’s serssd that staff intd a more professional time with all of the issues that Ma—
Brddferd said that interested students had does not necessarily mean a snnpter nouns’ Freshman Tlffsny Jenkins’ “The ssmnty sxlsts for and widely reSPected grouP ” lor League Baseball is addressing
e’ met with Associate Dean of Students Courtney “About 99.9 p€rC6I1t Of historically blaCk the hettennent Of Tnanklnd-” . Alderson Said this is a great opportunity to hea;
Penn during the PTOeess Of recruiting POten‘ Greek ergenizhdens do hot have n°nses’” In 190s’ Alpha Kappa Alpha sorority he‘ Alderson has also led Special from an insider about the future of
0 ha1 member s and establishing 3 ehnPteT- Penn send‘ Penn stressed that eldek frdtehhh Came Amenssns first Grsskelsnsr Osgsmzansn projects involving international America’s favorite pastime.”
Assddate Dean °f students Buddy Addns» “es and s°’°"n“ were nsnnieanny dine" esdhhshed FY sleek °°.hege w°‘h.°n' play including the 2000 Olympic Alderson will begin his talk at
d who oversees Greek hfe’ said that the “sealed” em from W&L counterparts’ A°°°“hh.s to Andhs.’ these ls Currently Games in Sydney. where Team 7:30p.m. tomorrow night in Lee
eess is tOT the “EFOUP Of students tO aPPfOneh whne AKA was founded as n sorority for he move to bsme s hlstsnssny black fsatsre USA won gold and the Baltimore Chapel. Admission is free and open
the Pan-He11e1-tic about forming a colony” black women, “membership is not restricted just nlty to campus. Orioles mp to Cuba for an eXhibi_ to the general public.
M O O -
THE  or Rocmm comm Computer S cience hires AI expert
BY PETER Djimum. “F3rt:xamplet;how can comlgliczitted prpglrarcriis likeolanguage
V V an oug e run on our io ogica ar ware.
I ndsssss EDITOR One of his most important achievements showed that
W&L’s Computer Science Department will add Simon a certain simple computer can produce language and
D. Levy to its team Fall Term. Levy, currently an assistant thought very similar to humans’. This is the focus of his
professor at Brandeis University, has researched the ﬁeld of thesis work, which he is planning to continue at W&L.
‘ Artificial Intelligence. The subject is Levy has also worked on speech recognition at Los
' new to W&L, and an opportunity for Alarnos National Laboratory.
students in computer science, biology, Levy chose W&L because it was “a top—ranked uni-
neuroscience and psychology. versity with outstanding students and a primary focus on
Levy earned a Bachelor’s in lin- undergraduate education. “Objectively, W&L was the
ot guistics from Yale University and a perfect choice.”
master’s degree in linguistics from the Levy was impressed by W&L’s sense of community,
7' University of Connecticut and one in the attention paid to the future, and the honor system,
computer science from Brandeis Uni— L which was “the most unique aspect of W&L.”
tt versity. He is pursuing his doctorate Es/Y Levy plans to participate in a new W&L interdis-
" in neural networks and language processing. ciplinary program in dynamical systems. Dynamical
Neural networks are ccom uters that mimics the ner— systems, s stems that chan e over time, include the
P Y 8
vous system of a living organism. brain and Weather.
“Outside of computer science, I enjoy studying languages, “(Levy) brings with him a wide range of intellectual
1. philosophy, psychology and cognitive science,” said Levy. interests, 21 strong commitment to teaching, and an estab-
“Apart from all that academic stuff, I’m also a martial arts en— lished research program,” said Computer Science Depart-
thusiast and would like to start or join a karate club at W&L.” ment Head Kenneth Lambert. “He is ready to hit the ground
V I  ’ h  .. “I earned a Bachelor’s and Masters degree in Linguis- running in some of our most critical courses, such as Com-
; , , , x _ , snsrs ss nnn sh/Tnnmg‘n'” ls” tics before deciding that Al was asking more interesting puter Organization, Programming Language Design, and
) WET RIDE. Tuesday afternoons rains swelled Woods Creek, turning the Apartments footbridge into a waterfall. questions about language than linguistics was,” Levy Said Data Structures and A1g0ﬁthms_”

 

PAGE 2

Give DC the vote

Status of nation’s capital undemocratic

Taxation without representation was one of the ma-
jor issues American colonists rallied around during the
American Revolution. Unfortunately, every day, the United
States deprives approximately one million of its citizens of
the right to representation in Congress, a situation that is
deplorable and must be ﬁxed immediately.

Although iight—wing Republicans may argue‘ differ-
ently, there is absolutely no reasonable argument to not
have voting legislators in the Senate and the House
from the District of Columbia. Just because some Ameri-
cans may not agree with District citizens politically, it is
no reason to deprive them of the right to representation.

Trent Lott (R-MS) and Jesse Helms (R—N C) are
two senators with whom my political ideals dis-
agree. I, however, do not disagree with the rights
of Mississippi and North Carolina to have senato-
‘ rial representa-
tion. Many of

COMMON SENSE
the arguments
against repre-

IONATHAN WORTHAM ‘O4
sentation are an

attempt to mask an undemocratic agenda designed
to gain seats to maintain/retain a majority in our
legislature. This cannot be allowed.

The District of Columbia is under the direct con-
trol of the Congress. Funding for city services come
directly from Congress. Although the city has a mayor
and council, they cannot pass legislation without con-
gressional approval. As it stands, the people of the
district have absolutely no effective means of making
their agenda known. It is very disturbing to think that I,
as a resident of South Texas, have more impact on the
laws of the District of Columbia than someone who
lives in the shadows of our nation’s capital.

Residents of the district do not even have an equal
share in determining the President, because the 23rd arnend—
ment restricts the niunber of DC electoral votes to the num-
ber of electoral votes of the least populous state (Wyoming),
which has far fewer people than DC. Obviously, the writers
of that constitutional amendment were not thinking of the
one-person, one vote principle. How many presidential can-
didates focus on Wyoming as a critical state in their cam-
paign? By this undemocratic amendment that contradicts
the equal protection clause in the l4tli amendment, our coun-
try is creating a two-tiered system that weighs votes.

Besides the current system being deplorable and
undemocratic, it is also unconstitutional. Although the
Constitution gives Congress total authority over DC,
it does not allow Congress to abridge such provisions
as the ones set forth in our Bill of Rights.

For over 200 years, Congress has relegated the
citizens of the District to second—class citizenship sta-
tus. It is time for our country to live up to the promise
of equal protection and grant DC citizens the right to
elect members to both houses of Congress. After all,
these citizens are expected to perform all of the respon-
sibilities of American citizenship, and thus should en-
joy all of the rights of citizenship. Remember, a vote
against representation for DC is equivalent to a vote
against democracy.

UOTE OF THE WEEK:

I MEAN, I DoN’T EVEN

GET EMBARRASSED
WHEN I THROW UP IN FRATER—

NITY BATHROOMS ANYMORE.

— ANONYMOUS SOPHOMORE GIRL

Titre: RiN(}~’£‘Utrt Pitt

PINIONS   - 

ANDREWLATIMER ’
OPINIONSEDHOR
EMAr;iAiivEtA@vuuE)u

PictLirE OF THE WEEK

LIKE MANNA FROM HEAVEN. During the past few weeks, passers—by may
have ﬁgured that the Alcohol Task Force had finally bitten the bullet and
started dorm delivery. Either that or someone in the administration has a
great sense of humor. For better or for worse. neither is the case. But

l’ii(nr>E\jArx)N<Tr1E . . . P111

don’t get your hopes up just yet. l\luch to the dismay of countless
exuberant freshmen, the truck merely delivers completely legal bottles of
certifiably zero prOOfSnapple® to the Co-op. University leaders up in
Washington Hall need not get concerned, at least not just yet.

    

Editor-in-chief Matthew B. McDem1ott
Associate Editor Katie J. Howell
Asst. News Editor Imran Naeemullah
Opinions Editor AndrewA.Lat1'mer
Editor-in-Exile Brett T. Kirwan
W&Life Editor Catherine C. Guy
Sports Editor David M. Crowell
Photo Editor MaryE. Guy
Photographer J eb Brooks
Business Manager Paul A. Seifert
Circulation Manager Brian Castleberry
Asst. Business Manager Emily Barker
Advertising Manager William Litton
Internet Editor Peter L. Djalaliev

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee Univer-
sity, Lexington, Virginia. The Washington and Lee Publi-
cations Board elects the Editor-in-chief, but The Ring-
tum Phi is otherwise independent. *

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible submis-
sions and letters. All submissions must be e—mailed to
phi@wlu.edu or in the University Center mailbox by 5
p.m. Friday to appear in the following weeks edition. The
Ring-tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for con-
tent and length. Letters and columns do not necessarily
reﬂect the opinion of the Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Ad-
vertising does not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi
or its staff. This newspaper observes current court deﬁrii-
tions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Mailing Address: University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Street Address: 31 Washington Street
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Fax: (540) 462-4059
Email: phi@wlu.edu
http://phi.wlu.edu

Annual Subscription Rate: $30

+_LE_.-_-,.-_ -- E ,.f_ A

Title IX not the asr

At Washington and Lee, we are
a rather privileged bunch in many
ways. Not in the least of which is our
athletic programs, which although not
always headline— grabbing in their per-
formance, certainly provide the op-
portunity to many athletes to prove
their mettle and hone their skills.

Indeed, a statistic the admissions
ofﬁce likes to point out is that approxi-
mately 20 percent of W&L students
play a varsity sport, compared to a
mere three percent average at Divi-
sion I schools. Talk to any athlete, and
he or she will tell you how great their
experience on the team is, how they’re
treated really well, and how much pride
they take in being a General.

Yet, we must realize that we are
indeed a very privileged group of stu-
dents because of our University’s
rather large endowment that helps

_ fund this level of athletic involvement.

Around the rest of the country,
many colleges have to cut back. Ac-
cording to the New York Times of May
9, the men’s track teams at the Uni-
versity of Vermont, Tulane University,
and Bowling Green University will no
longer exist as of this weekend.

As the Times pointed out, over
the past several years, many other
teams have been affected. Boston
University ended its football pro-
gram after 91 years, Providence Col-
lege cut its baseball team after 80
years, UCLA destroyed its 16 Olym-
pic gold medal-
winning men’s .
swimming team, 
and Iowa State de-
cided its three—time
national champion gymnastics team
was no longer worth keeping.

Reading this, one must surely
wonder, Why would any college
in its right mind eliminate such
seemingly successful teams? The
answer: Title IX.

Title IX is the legalistic term for
the 1972 law that essentially dictates
that nobody can be prevented be-
cause of their gender from participat-
ing in federally funded educational
programs and activities.

In principle, the law advocates
gender equity. After all, why
should women have any less of an
opportunity to receive funds (and
therefore, have teams) than men?

 
 

Despite the fact that women have“

traditionally been less inclined to
play sports than men, the statis-
tics are changing, and it may be
that in ten years,‘ the number of
men and women playing sports is
the same. This is a good thing.

The bad thing is that college
budgets are, after all, limited in their
scope, and therefore cuts must be
made somewhere, and since men domi-
nate (statistically) in sports, they are
the ones who must suffer.

The sad part is, the teams that
suffer are the ones that cost the least.
Boston University’s football program
is actually an anomaly in the football

 RIGI-lT—\X/ING RESPONSE
‘ r  IMEAN NAEEMULLAH ‘O5

 

IN THE CROSSHAIRS: Title IX, although its intent was good-natured, unfairly targets
programs like football, souring the sport experience for college students.

world: most football teams remained
unscathed by Title IX. Even Provi-
dence College’s baseball team is
among the minority, since baseball,
whatever decline it may have experi-
enced since its heyday, is still a popu-
lar and relatively well-funded sport.
No, the real victims are sports like
track and cross-country, swimming,
gymnastics, wres-
tling, and golf. These

little of the glamour
and prestige of foot-
ball, nevertheless are just as physi-
cally rewarding, promote similar team
values of cooperation and respect,
and perhaps more importantly, are
much easier to actually participate in
than football, basketball, or baseball.

The obvious solution, of course,
would be to increase budgets. Sadly,
this is not always possible. With so
many other demands on colleges
these days to expand existing pro-
grams and create new ones, aca-
demic and otherwise, a budget in-
crease for athletics is usually out of
the question, or at least not sufficient
to subsidize the absolute equality
mandated by Title IX. Therefore, it’s

A the guys who have to suffer.

Is it really fair that women’s
equality in sports must come at the
behest of men’s participation? Af-
ter all, as University of Vermont
sophomore Bethany Brodeur said
in the Times, “I’m here as a woman,
thankful to Title IX. But that’s
tough for me to say given the re-
versal of opportunity for these
guys on my team who sometimes
run 30 or 40 miles a week more than
me. They love running just as
much. Where’s their opportunity?”

Those who claim that football is.

to blame are absolutely wrong. Many
of those who say football is to blame
insist that because of its “bloated”

sports, which enjoy ,

funding, the money is not available
to fund programs like track. To some
extent, they are right: after all, the sala-
ries of some football coaches exceed
those of their university presidents.

However, the same scenario ex-
ists in the real world, where a single
football team earns more than the en-
tire Congress combined. Yet, nobody
has managed to muster enough sup-
port to pass a law banning football
players from earning more than
$l35,000ayear.

The market dictates what play-
ers earn; after all, if they’re in demand,
they’ll attract crowds, which attract
advertisers, which combined with
ticket sales, generate massive
amounts of revenue.

The same thing happens with
colleges. These schools are depen-
dent on their star teams to attract
national attention, which in turn fos-
ters their academic reputations, en-
abling them to recruit more talented
students who might otherwise at-
tend other schools.

Cutting football is not the an-
swer; the answer lies in reinter-
preting Title IX so that schools do
not have to meet ridiculous quo-
tas, but instead, meet the demand
posed by their students.

This market-based solution,
which is the fairest to everyone and
is preference-blind, will enable in-
dividual colleges to best meet the
needs of their students. After all, a
school like Washington and Lee
can hardly be expected to have the
same athletic requirements as the
University of Notre Dame, or for
that matter, Swarthmore College.

In Title IX’s case, we’re 30
years behind, but we can at least
begin making amends by advocat-
ing a common—sense approach to
reinterpreting the law that will
best benefit everyone.

MONDAY, MAY 13, 2002
Anothermissive from
Inside the Beltway

What to do about the Farm Bill when
there are no judges?

This past week provided all kinds of excitement
for those of us inside the Beltway. Firstly, I must give
credit where credit is due; Prof. Connelly arranged for
an excellent tour this past Friday. The class met with a
W&L alumnus who now works for the National Secu-
rity Council and another who works in the White House
Counsel’s office. We also enjoyed a tour of Old Execu-
tive Office Building and a photo opportunity at the‘
West Wing of the White House.

Interestingly, I met two other W&L grads this week.
One at a Republican fundraiser, another walking home
from the bank. Former Generals abound in Washing-
ton, in all ﬁelds. My bank buddy is a massage therapist
studying for a Masters Degree in acupuncture.

This week on Capitol Hill, however, things didn’t
go so smoothly. In the Senate, floor debate focused
on the trade
measures and
the Farm Bill.
True to form,
Tom “Puf ”
Daschle, Majority Leader has combined three trade
measures into one, ensuring terrible difficulty in pass-
ing the legislation.

Two of the three measures, Trade Promotion Autlio_r-
ity and the Andean Free Trade Agreement could easily be
agreed to, but since they are combined with the Trade
Authorization Act, a measure over which there is much
debate disagreement, so none of three will pass anytime
soon. Moreover, as time passes, the deadline for reautho—
rization of AFTA, May 16 nears and without action, new
tariffs will be imposed on four developing nations. V

This is just one of many instances where the Demo-
crats have put politics above the health of the nation. Also
this week they have fooled with the future of Ameiica’s
farms and lied about the status of the judicial crisis.

First, they pushed through a huge boondoggle of a
Farm Bill. It increases by seven times the amount of subsi-
dies paid to farmers, most of which goes to huge
agribusinesses and creates a downward spiral in which sub-
sidies spur overproduction, which leads to lower prices and
the need for more subsidies. Also, it represents a huge step
backwards from the 1996 Freedom to Farm Act which en-
couraged free market practices in agriculture.

This is not to mention the blatant hypocrisy of the
bill. Around the world, we encourage developing nations
and our trading partners to deregulate and desubsidize
their agricultural sectors, yet we,_thank to the”Daschle
Democrats, are moving in the opposite direction.

The other front on which they have undeniably pani-
san is with judicial nominees. In fact, my good friend Michael
Denbow, has been working in the Democratic Policy Council
helping to prepare for the dueling press conferences. 
Republicans demonstrated that the Democrats in charge have

DISPAIOA FROM THE DISIRICT
BRETT T. KIRWAN ‘O4

’ behaved very badly and refused to conﬁrm the judges Presi-

dent Bush has nominated. Denbow and his cohorts twisted
the statistics to attempt to explain their intransigence.
Fortunately, the facts were on our side. For ex-
ample, the past three Presidents had all of their first
eight nominees approved in no more than an aver-

_ age of 100 days. On the other hand, eight of Presi-

dent Bush’s nominees have been waiting for more
than a year for a hearing!, let alone a confirmation
vote. And two of the three that were confirmed were
Democrats held over from Clinton’s term.

Also, during the first Congress of each of the three
previous presidencies, 95 percent-plus of the nonri-
nees were confirmed. Now, to the Democrats’ credit,
they have conﬁnned a whopping 52 percent of Presi-
dent Bush’s nominees. Way to go, guys! Sorry Mike,
but the Democrats have been undeniably and irrefut-
ably partisan and ob/structionist.

In other, somewhat childish news, did you know
that New York has a Democratic Representative
named Anthony ‘Weiner?

Finally, the most outrageous news of the week is that <
the families of eleven illegal imrnigrants-have sued the K
Department of the Interior and the Fish and Wﬂdlife Ser-
vice because the agencies failed to place water along the
border and the illegals perished in the hot desert sun.
That’s right, the government is now responsible for plac-
ing water in the Arizona desert so Mexicans have enough
to drink as they illegally attempt to enter our country!
Let’s finish the column with three cheers for trial lawyers.

P.S. Al, the homeless man we pass on the way
to the Metro now spends his days listening to an
MP3 player.

Letter to- the Editor

Alumnus cheers while W&L spins
forever down the nhg/hg grooves of change

Mrs. Judy Konkel, mother of Robyn Konkel
‘O5, and her recent letter voicing her opinion re-
garding the University’s ever present “Prophets
of Doom” is to be commended.

Certainly, we heard such misgivings in the past,
i.e., “N o Marthas” or “Better Dead then Co—ed” and
happily that particular Tradition of the University’s
past lore is no more.

Today, there is at Washington and Lee a
uniquely ever diversifying vibrant Faculty and
Student Body. The malcontents should indeed
transfer to a school which still wallows in all their
sybarite pleasures.

Sincerely,
Donald S. Hillrnan ‘46

 

,..

-i

hr

)1

I

1.

R

J

 

 

 C. GL3‘
W&L1FE EDHUR


l\7loNDAY, MAY I3, 2002!!

W&LrFE

jrza BRO0KS/ The Rziggtzz/zzl’/1:’

l‘Spider—Man’ proves more fun, better than expected

R BY MICHEAL GEORGE
STAFF WRITER

Spider-Manisﬁlled with trite dialogue
. and over—the-top performances, but its
honest humility and clever wit make it a
ﬁlm worth watching.
For most of his life, Peter Parker
(Maguire) has gone unnoticed. A nerdy
«Toner, Peter agonizes over winning the
heart of Mary Jane Watson (Dunst), the
girl next door. His attempts fail, until, while
taking photos for his school paper, a ge-
netically enhanced spider bites him. Pe-
‘ter wakes up the next day to ﬁnd his body
and mind altered. His catlike speed and
reﬂexes help him avoid a bully at school
and impress Mary Jane. He soon discov-
,(ers that he can climb walls, jump great
distances, and shoot webbing from his
wrists. He takes his new powers for
granted, trying to win money at a profes-
sional wrestling match. But when a thief
ﬂ. .

ldlls his uncle, he dedicates his life to ﬁght-
ing crime.

Director Sam Raimi, who helrned the
‘Evil Dead’ trilogy and’ Xena Warrior Prin-
cess’, adds his unique sense of humor to
the ﬁlm. His style is oomy, but when com-
bined with the understated modesty of
Maguire’s performance, gives the ﬁlm a

humble charm Willem Dafoe, who plays ‘

Spider-Man’s nemesis The Green Goblin,
eases from being insane to subtly manipu-
lative. Dafoe tries to manipulate to Peter
through chilling and conniving words. His
performance, however, fails when he puts
on the Green Goblin suit, as his acting is
too over—the—top. '
Although the ﬁlm’s special effects
are impressive, they are distracting and
not innovative. Rairni spends too much
time showing Spider-Man ﬂy instead of
developing his characters. The ﬁlm is ﬁlled
with plot holes and unrealistic devices. It
is a comic book that lacks both the emo-

tional depth and plot complexity that ﬁlms
rely on. If, however, you concede that
the ﬁhn doesn’t want to explore the hu-
man condition and just wants to be fun, it

is worth seeing. Although ‘Spider-Man’
relies on special effects, it is honest,
humble, and funny. It doesn’t take itself
too seriously, and is worth seeing.

    

\WL\\'J \l.(IX\l TOPID. K)\'[E\' 5I’!I)FR-,\H_\J [NI)l:I\’.j!Ili\lI.

PAGE 3

     
 

The guy next door: 3:,‘
Addicted to Instant Messenge

BY_Si.\rLiGRoNE/STAI-r=  r

There are ways to ﬁgure out the collective mood of a society. Historians
do it all of the time.

Some examples would include: “Agriculture Production Statistics Relative to
the Working Class Demographic in Toledo (1940— 1973).” Or studies that examine the
paradigms of child rearing and gender roles, or the number of people a society
decides to ritually set on ﬁre for witchcraft. Stuff like that At Virginia Military Institute,
it’s the Instant Messenger away message that’s an indicator of the collective mood.

The VMI IM culture is a neat anomaly of the infonnation age. The miniature
Internet chat rooms are our primary link to the outside world, since VMI has given us
unlimited high—speed access to the Web from our rooms, but not telephones. It’s like
giving a cold fusion reactor to a kindergarten class, but not crayons.

Many of us are tied to the IM, like an invalid to an iron lung. Instead of the sound
of wheezing and the hissing compressor it’s that god-forsaken door-slarn or the bo-
de—bodoo. (I personally turn the sounds off. It just interrupts my Bachrnan—Tumer
Overdrive MP3s and consequently my air guitar jam. Those people can wait until I’m

V done “rocking out,” so to speak)

So we leave the IIVI on all the time. We do it so our nearest and dearest can still
know what we’re doing at every single waking moment. The away message can tell
them if we’re at our computers or not. The away messages this week reveal our
disdain for exams. Engineers sit around saying, “you know that laser is supposed to
be built by tomorrow, I should probably get started.”

Meanwhile the liberal artists dust off their calculators and ﬁgure out how many
words they have to write a minute to get their 120—page thesis written in two hours.
This stress and anxiety all end up on our computer screens. To take a closer look, let’s
look at some recent away messages of cadets on my buddy list.

“Studying....leave a message and I’ll get back to you when i can [sic]” (This is
pretty standard. This guy is under a little pressure, but coping.)

“Spanish, Chem, Macro...” (This is a cadet who is nrrrning on three hours of
sleep for the week and doesn’t have the energy to type out a full explanation, just a
minimalist scrap of prose, open to interpretation.)

“So yeah..have~ a Spanish oral exam, followed by a drug and alch ecarn
[sic], followed by a macro test. Followed by a history paper due tomorrow.
Happy friggin Wednesday.” (This cadet was obviously cleaning out his desk
when he found his syllabus and his day planner and started hyperventilating
and typing at the same time.) ..

“I have a paper due Firday, a.n article to write, and exams start saturday . . . but I
am watching a movie.” (This cadet has stopped caring, which will last for about 12-

hours until the fear of parents seeing his grades will drive him to a week of papers, .

studying and mainlining caffeine.)
“I ’ in writing 3 papers at the same time. Yeah, I know it’s gangsta.”
(This guy. . .is awesome.)
On the occasion that we do surface for air, the conversations aren’t that cheerful:
Bugluv2040: hi billy.
VMIGuY: Hi Steph.
Bugluv2040: how r.u.?
VMIGuY: Life is a depressing, cold place that wraps us all in the concrete and
mortar shell of despair.
Bugluv2040: uh. . ..so how’s school?
VlV[IGuY: it’s ﬁne...justﬁne...(sigh...). I want my mom.
Reach Sam LaGrone at lagronesr@mail.vmi.edu

CONGRATULATIONS TO
THE MEN’S LACROSSE
TEAM!!!
MORE STEPS AWAY
YOUR HEADS HIGH
‘MATTER WHAT!!!

Midge Thompson (the very proud mother of David “DT”

YOU ARE ONLY 2
. KEEP
NO E

. Very fondly,

;r:a:raz' r;:A§*t”
.33‘ \%€«$S¥.{'ENr,;‘.E£)?4‘ i£i‘l'.Et!:;I<:".f ~ §.§§?£.lbEt3I-(Jet ~ .-528445586

 

u'::"~;'Jl’}‘-f>.?»'v.‘§'1r|';'.'f_z§1’ tjrrtrggéz-.5733 1 , .

’.l..»’K?"-RA - W§L£l§l2iE2§{‘t"§§Lr\-ST - S"i”Ea’~*r‘s“é‘BWFt"r" !§«€Z1l'e§E’§
' l7‘>§I’J§ « ffifﬁﬁﬁhi hlﬂﬂﬁﬂ - M=ClI§(%

   

Thompson ‘96)J

 

THE RlE\EG-~TiEM PIE

MONDAY, MAY 13,2002 ‘

PORTS  

DAVID M CROIV/Eli
SPOKISEDHOR
EMAII;OtoVEiiD@wIDEDq

PAGE 4

Generals cage i way into N AA Semifinals ~

BY DAVID CROWELL AND MICHAEL LEE
sI>OIIIs EDITOR AND SPORTS WRITER

If this weekend is any indication
of things to come, Gettysburg better
watch out for a vengeful Washing-
ton and Lee men’s lacrosse team.

The Generals (14-3) advanced to
the NCAA Division HI Semiﬁnals and
earned the right to play the Bullets
by avenging an early season defeat
at the hands of Washington College
(Md.) on Sunday afternoon.

W&L built a quick 7-4 first quarter
advantage and held on to defeat the

Shoremen, 11-8, in NCAA
Quarterﬁnal action in Chesteitown,
Maryland.

Washington got on the board first
when Steve Berger scored less than
two minutes into the game, but the
Generals tied the score only 23 sec-
onds when junior defender Matt
Strickler scored an unassisted goal.

The game continued in a seesaw fash-
ion, with the two teams trading goals
until the Generals rolled off four goalsin
less than four minutes to take a 6-4 lead.

Senior midfielder John Moore
scored two goals and sophomore at-
tacker Matt Fink tallied three assists
during the run.

MAN OF THE HOUR: junior midﬁelder Rob Brown ﬁres a
shot during the Generals’ 13-8 victory Over Widener College

Sophomore midﬁelder Rich Will-
iams scored the Generals’ seventh goal
of the period with 33 seconds left to
round out the first half scoring.

After Fink opened up the scoring in
the second half, the Shoremen launched
a three-goal run to cut the deﬁcit to 8-7.

The Generals, however, scored three
more times to secure the victory.

Fink scored two goals off two as-
sists from freshman Gavin Molinelli
in the fourth quarter. W&L’s leading
scorer this season ﬁnished with three
goals and three assists on the day.

Women’s tennis moves on

BY DAVID CROWELL
SPORTS EDITOR

The Washington and Lee women’s tennis team took
the first steps towards competing for the national title this
week, easily disposing of two Capital Athletic Conference
foes, Mary Washington and Salisbury.

The Generals (20-2) also defeated the Eagles and
Seagulls in NCAA South Regional action last season to
earn the right to travel to Trinity (Texas) and compete in
the ﬁnal bracket of eight teams.

Last year,’ however, the Generals lost to Trinity, 7-2, in
the quarterﬁnals. Coach Cinda Rankin hopes there will be
no repeat when her squad plays a little closer to home, at
Sweet Briar College in Lynchburg.

”We are where we need to be. We’ve taken the first two
steps, but the competition becomes much tougher now,”
Rankin said. “I really would like to see us win the next
round and get into the ﬁnal four.

“Once we get to four, anything can happen. We just
need to take it step by step.” _

In reaching the NCAA Quarterﬁnals, the Generals first
sidestepped Mary Washington on Wednesday afternoon,
earning a 9-0 victory. Junior Erika Proko led W&L with a 6-
0, 6-3 victory over Steffany Slaughter at No. 1 singles.

Slaughter had earned the only win for the Eagles on March
23, defeating freshman Lindsay Hageirnan when the South
Regional Rookie of the Year went down with an ankle injury.

Proko also teamed up» with senior Melissa Hatley at
No. 1 doubles to earn an 8-4 victory.

Hagemian, Hatley, sophomore Elizabeth Law, junior
Laura Bruno and senior Manning Willard also earned vic-
tories in their respective singles matches.

Hagerinan and Willard teamed to take an 8-2 victory at
No. 2 doubles while Bruno and senior co—captain Sallie
Gray Strang earned an 8-0 victory at No. 3 doubles.

Thursday afternoon saw more of the same as the Gen-
erals beat up on Salisbury, taking a 9-0 win.

Proko, Hagerman, Hatley and Willard eamed straight
set victories, with Hatley ﬁnishing up an impressive two
days of work by taking home a 6-0, 6-0 victory.

“Hatley’s on fire,” Rankin said simply. “She’s playing
great. She seems very focused and is very determined. I
haven’t seen her play better throughout the season.”

Law and Bruno also showed great resiliency in going
the limit to seize wins. Bruno pulled out a win at No. 5
singles while Law beat Amy Campion 6-4, 3-6, 6-3 at No. 4

A singles to finish the day.

“Our entire team is hanging in there,” Rankin said.
“Salisbury was known to be stronger at the bottom and
the three setters were big. (Law and Bruno) could’ve said
we had already won the meet and not come out to play,

MARI‘ GU\’/ The Ring-rm Phi

ON TO LYNCHBURG: junior Erika Proko hits a backhand during
her No. 1 doubles victory Over MWC on Wednesday afternoon.

but they didn’t.

“That’s important, because’ on the next step, it might
come down to their particular matches.”

The Generals travel to Sweet Briar on Friday afternoon
to begin play against the top teams in the nation. Rankin
hopes the close proximity will help her team gain an intan-
gible edge.

“The location won’t hurt us and I think the players
would love to get a lot of support from the W&L stu-
dents,” she said.

The time for the Generals next match, along with
the Generals’ opponent, will be announced on Mon-
day afternoon.

Moore and sophomore at-
tacker Dustin Martin finished
with two goals apiece.

The Generals reached the
quarterfinal game by defeating
Widener College 13-8 at Wilson
Field on Wednesday afternoon.

Mini (Jim The Rlrzgtu//I P/J2
on Wednesday afternoon. Brown scored three goals and
added two assists in W&L’s return to postseason play.

After a close ﬁrst half, W&L didn’t
disappoint the fans, breaking away
from Widener to take home a 13-8 win. _

The game was spectacular, with
outstanding play by both sides, but
was characterized by a large number
of penalties. W&L was the recipient
of 13 of the 19 penalties.

Coach Mike Cerino dismissed the
number of fouls, however, as a char-
acteristic of Widener’s style of play,
not the referees.

“It’s more a result of the confer-
ence that Widener comes out of,”
Cerino said. “We had a hard time ad-

justing to their style of play.”

Widener opened the game with an
unassisted goal 55 seconds into the
first quarter, but the Generals an-
swered back with a three-goal spurt,
spearheaded by Moore, who scored
once and assisted on another goal.

The Pioneers came charging back
and tied the game at three with 13:41
remaining in the second quarter, but
Moore scored again off an assist from
junior midﬁelder Rob Brown, who later
added a score to give the Generals a
6-4 lead at the half.

W&L entered the second half re-
invigorated, and scored three quick
goals to pad their lead. Widener re-

sponded, but could not overcome

W&L’s defense, scoring only four‘
second—half goals to the Generals’

seven.

Cerino highlighted the play of
Brown, who led the way with three
goals and two assists. A.-

“Rob’s done a workman’s job all
year long. We run a balanced offen-

sive attack, in that it’s not run around
any particular person, but on who’s
got the best matchup,” the Old Do-
minion Athletic Conference Coachgof
the Year said. “Rob was left open a
lot, and he really came through.”

The trip to the semiﬁnals is W&L’s»<
first since 2000, when the Generals lost
to Salisbury State, 10-9, in the semis.

Cerino, who led Division H Lime-
stone to a title in 20()O, refused to look
ahead to national glory when asked
about the team’s chances after
Wednesday’s win.

“I like our bracket and our balance,
but this team has always taken it one 7*‘
game at a time, so right now, we’re
looking to our next hurdle,” he said.

The Generals will play next week-
end at Gettysburg for the opportunity’
to play either Middlebury or Ithaca
for the national title. The time of the
game will be announced this week.

Generals end season with loss to Washington"

BY DAVID CROWELL
SPORTS EDITOR

The Washington and Lee men’s tennis team ﬁnally
met an obstacle it could not overcome.

The 20th—ranked Generals pulled off a major upset on
Saturday afternoon by defeating 10th-ranked Mary
Washington College, 5-1, in the ﬁrst round of the NCAA

Division III Tournament.

The win also avenged a 4-3 defeat at the hands of the

Eagles on March 27.

The Generals could not keep the momentum,
however, as the sixth-ranked Shoremen of Wash-
ington College (Md.) handed W&L a 4-1 defeat on

Sunday afternoon.

Senior Rhys James led the Generals on Saturday by
winning his singles and doubles matches.

updates

COME OUT and show support
for the women’s tennis team
at the NCAA Tournament
Friday at Sweet Briar College

Visit athlez‘ics.wlu.edu for

FOR RENT

3-bedroom
furnished apartment,
Off—street parking,
5 minutes on foot
from Washington
Hall. $600/ month;
utilities not
included.
One-year lease.
Please call 463-7044
after 5:00 pm

as

Fr'ida_}§May 12?,

 
  
   
 

  

Sti.iiday._ ivliay SEES,

 

    

Doe ’\1?'ats¢_:m

The Old Dominion Athletic Conference Player of tlie

Year defeated Conor Smith 7-6 (6), 6-2, then teamed up
with classmate Andrew Roberts to win 9-7 at No. 1 doubles.

doubles.

Freshman Paul McClure, sophomores Austin Kim and
Graham Nix, and senior Rob Moynihan also won their
respective singles matches. g

In addition, Kim and Nix teamed to win at No.2

On Sunday, the General’s luck ran out. Despite win-

ning the doubles point by taking two of three doubles

matches, W&L could not withstand the onslaught of *

Generals’ season.

 
 

-Lt‘:xi‘ngton.. Virgina

W‘hé.re arrrerrnir:rnr:zz carries fraternity.

Sendai’

   

Ti};  In ().I'I1'iEt11.=t}§1

' Ea'.lpl1 stmiiézy as
The (:§ixiA::.t.t; Mr... Boys

Maw 15’?

,_ Janie {an
Sunday, June. 2., '

Washington’s singles competitors.

James and Roberts wonvat No. 1 doubles and Kim
and Nix also pulled out a doubles win, but the Shoremen
won all four singles matches that ﬁnished to end the

A

W&L finished with a 13-6 record.

 

  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
  
    
     
    
 

"}:3€1! em...

  

 
  

'.?':3{} pm.

 
 

i vw.t;Eieate ‘i?i’El,i1‘I1€3l(.ll§1.C01I1.

  

9‘

 
   
  
  
  
 
 
    

     
 
   
  
   
    

 
  
  

 

 
 

    

t 73 .755
T1557.
   . 
 ‘I’ WRSEINCTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY  I
THE PHI WISHES 1 1 = J ‘ L = 1 “ X A ' ' Ft-3'.;\’l‘t.3l{.ti}'.S 1
W&L A GREAT . OI-"tNlC_>NS 2
SUMMER A 1 sp(jm~g 3,
‘I. Q
\7OI,I.',tII:C\§NO.ll’ T“ lI,ta:~;I?\?t;I'«I:\:.\’éII(;Ix;.I3-1430 :‘\lt:\5)‘«‘:',MD27.

‘Customs’ after-orientation program
junked for individual ha/I programs

9! STAFF REFoRrs

Last year’s Customs program will not be return-
irig, said Dean of Freshman Dawn Watkins.

“We did not have the turnout we originally envi-

.,t sioned,” Watkins said.

The Customs program rewarded students for at-
tending a series of events, mostly student health is-
sues. Participating students had their ID cards swiped,
which simulated “stamping their passport.”

Only seven students completed the program, each
of whom was given a reward ranging from a DVD player
to a stuffed animal.

Watkins believes students were too busy with

a “campus commitments,” not necessarily social, to add
one further things into burdgeoning day planners.

All information in the future will be disseminated
through mandatory hall meetings.

Dorm counselors will lead the discussions.

STAFF REPORTS

The ﬁlm “Skin Deep”is the proposed cen-
terpiece for the multicultural sensitivity portion
of next year’s freshmen orientation.

“Dean (of Freshmen Dawn) Watkins and I

plan to expose the students to “Skin Deep,” a
documentary about college students confront-
ing racism,” said Associate Dean of Students
Courtney Penn, in an email to potential pre-
senters. .
“Skin Deep” is a 53—n1inute documentary
ﬁlm on college students confronting racism.
According to its webpage (http://
www.irisfilms.org/SD/index2.html), “ ‘Skin
Deep’ was conceived as a tool for sparking dis-
cussion about race and racism. The ﬁlm, along
with the facilitation guide, allows teachers or
group leaders of any kind create an ideal envi-
romnent for genuine exchange.”

‘' The ﬁlm will be introduced by then-Presi-
dent Tom Burish. Discussions will be led by
volunteers, mostly drawn from the ranks of the
Minority Student Association and Promoting
Respect of Individual Diversity in Education.

“The subsequent discussion about the
video . . . is a powerful video that sets a tone for
our expectations for members of our commu-
nity,” Penn said.

About 30 volunteers are needed to assist
Dorm Counselor in facilitating
discussion of the video. Volunteers previewed
the film last week in Northen
Auditorium.

This ﬁlm replaces last year’s play , “which
was not well received by students,”Watkins
said.

“It wasn’t really geared to (college
students)’levels,”Watkins said. “This (film)

Freshmen programs   revised for Class of 2006

" Students trained to lead diversity conversations; new video rep/aces previous anti-discrimination plays

  

COUR ' WW D0(,l '.\lE\Tf.Cl').l‘K

LEI"s TALK ABOUT IT. ‘Skin Deepfa film produced and directed by Frances Reid, explores campus race relations
by intervewing students at Amherst, Texas A&M and UC Berkeley.

' K

,REr>oRT: ePom plagues
. W &L common drive

5‘,

I. .

  

BY PETER DJALALIEV
INTERNET EDITOR

Washington and Lee University has always
provided vast amounts of freedom to its stu-
dents. Maybe not many people know about
this, but this freedom includes the ability to dis-

‘tribute and download adult pornography

through the university computer network. For
those who do not know, the K:\ drive contains
around 300 video files, of which at least 200 con-
tain adult scenes. The drive and all its contents
are accessible to everyone connected to the
Novell network.

Most people believe it neither legal nor
moral to distribute adult materials on computer
resources provided to students for educational
purposes. However, delving deeper into the is-
siﬁnit appears that both the illegality and the
in orality of distribution are questionable.

Legally, no governmental legislation is pow-
erful enough to prohibit students from copying
adult materials on educational institu-
tions’computer networks. Well, nearly none. 
VMI cadet was recently dismissed after federal
ofﬁcials prosecuted him for possession of adult
materials with intent to distribute. However, this
single cases revolved around a member of a US
military institution. The federal government nearly
only concerns itself is distribution of child por-

_ no graphy.

Morally, there is no university policy against
pornography, so the practical Honor System
application of “don’t lie, cheat or steal” does
not apply. Even though University Computing

Greek system nationally rec

4

provides students with the network resources
for educational purposes, the K:\ drive is a con-
trol—free environment.

“We do not supervise the contents of the
K: drive,” said John Stuckey, department head.
“We provide this space to students so that they
can have a temporary storage for their ﬁles in
cases of need. If we get a speciﬁc complain from
a student about speciﬁc ﬁles on the drive, we
will go and delete them.”

No controversy surrounds whether Univer-
sity Computing should limit K:\ drive access.
Not having a K:\ drive would deprive students
of a useful resource; prohibiting students from

storing video ﬁles will prevent some students v -

from sharing important class or experimental
work. Direct control over the shared drive’s con-
tents has obviously negative academic results.

What most pommongerers do not know is
that administrators can always look up the per-
son who copied a speciﬁc ﬁle on the K:\ drive.
It is an extremely easy operation. Looking at
some authors will reveal the names of some W&L
faculty members. Of course, there is always the
chance that someone has been using another’s
account without his knowledge.

The issue has no easy solution. The K:\
drive is meant for temporary storage and shar-
ing of ﬁles. Disabling this drive or controlling
its contents would be academically disadvanta-
geous. Would "prohibiting students to share
video (or any) ﬁles be more advantageous than
disadvantageous? Do we prefer to have moral-
ity enforced by rules or afreedom that encour-
ages, but does not forcibly ensure, morality?

 .35

PHOIO URTESY SH SU ORDER OF THE OMEGA

A OMEGA. This national organizationwas foundedin 1959 to recognize leaders in inter—Greek activities. There are over400 chapters nationwide.

W&L chapter of Omega Order founded to ﬁght “negative Greek stereotypes”

BY MATTHEW MCDERMOTT
EDITOR IN CHIEF

The Order of Omega, a national honorary
recognizing outstanding Greek leaders, has es-

‘'1 tablished at W&L its 437th chapter.

>1‘.

I

“With such a strong Greek community at
W&L, it made natural sense to charter a local
chapter,” said senior Rebekah Ahn.

Ahn learned about the Order after an in-
ternship at Kappa Alpha national headquaters,
said Associate Dean of Students Leroy Atkins,
and has been the driving force behind it.

lnter—Fraternity Council President Chris _

Pickens and Panhellenic Council President Eliza-
beth Saxton “have gone beyond their duties as
Greek ofﬁcers inhelping to get Order of Omega
started,” Ahn said.

“I said that I would support this proposed
organization as long as it had a reason to exist,”
Atkins said. “We didn’t want another organiza-

tion to honor the same people that probably
(Omicron Delta Kappa) or Phi Beta Kappa were.”
That reason, Atkins said, was to publizce posi-
tive aspects of Greek, “since (Greek organization)
can get negative publicitiy without any trouble.”
To this end an armual to semiannual news-
letter will be published “to highlight the more
positive aspects of W&L’s Greek system.
“While it is structured as an honorary, the ac-
tive role of Order of Omega at W&L will be to cast
the focus on positive aspects of Greek life . . 
Membership is restricted to juniors and se-
niors with the top 3 percent Greek GPA’ s. Next year’s
senior members are Diane Averyt, Wogan Bernard,
Andrew Borda, Bryan Carmody, Janet Carter,
Lindsey Duran, Andy Folsom, Avery Gholston, An-
drew I-lirsekom, Skye Justice, Wﬂliarn Kuntz, Jane
Ledlie, Trey Packard, Raphael Penteado, Chris
Pickens, Kempton Presley,Elizabetl1 Saxton, Julia
Simmons, Claire Smith, Reanna Stahl, Sarah Sturtz,
Carroll Thompson and Michael Watts.

should be better.”

W&L IN A FISHBOWL

. h 0.
“Dorms__.Lik

-« “HOmogeneOus.St1_1

    No. 14,
. “Lots of hard liquor”

No. 19
“Most Beautiful Campus”

  No. 19
“"l’lie,;Be§t Quality of Lif _”

. _ .. - ‘,PllO10_l‘£3BR00}$/Kitgsﬁanln/It

l

Contact brings
in Enron expert

BY PETER QUACKENBUSH
STAFF NRITER

Enron’s collapse occupiedjoumalist Jeffery Bimbuam’s
Tuesday talk at Washington and Lee’s Lee Chapel.

The speech, Enron: “The Scandal That Ate Washington,”
covered the rise and fall of the Houston, Texas, corporation.

“We were thrilled to host one of Washington’s most
reknowned journalists, Jeff Birnbaum, to talk about the
issues surrounding Enron,” said Sam Langholz, president
of Contact, which sponsored the speaker. ‘

Enron was the brainchild of Kenneth Lay, Birnbaum
said. “(Lay) had his initial training in Washington, DC,
working for the govemment,” Birnbaum said. “Lay saw a
future (proﬁt to be made) if energy could get out from
under the thumb of the government.”

In 1985, Lay merged two regional pipeline companies
toform the first national pipeline company. Fifteen years

America, trading in natural gas and Internet bandwidth.
The company’s expansion culminated into a 7th place rank-
ing on the Fortune 500.

But all was not healthy inside Enron. The company’s
breathtaking success all turned out to be a large game of
manipulation because of the company’s practice of “ma—
nipulating its balance sheet,” Birnbaum said.

Birnbaum’s speech also analyzied the debacle’s
spillover into politics and other businesses. In the matter
of a couple of months the stock value of Enron fell from
$80 per share to less than one dollar per share. Entire
retirements and life savings were wiped out for employees
and investors. “As 2001 came to a close, so did Enron,”
Birnbaum said.

“I would hope that the students, faculty and commu-
nity members who attended the public lecture, or journal-
ism class, were able to gain some insight, and learn from
Mr. Birnbaum’s wealth of experience (of) reporting about
the intersection of business and politics,” Langholtz said.

ognized

IFC wins national award BY CATHERINE GUY
\X/&LIFF. EDITOR
STAFF REFoRTs
9 You know, it really tickles me the way
The North American Inter-Frater- students react to things. After we conﬁscated

nity Conference recently recognized
W&L’s fraternity system for “contri-
butions and efforts to advance the fra-
ternal movement,” according to an In-
ter—Fraternity Council press release.
The award, the first time the IFC
has been nationally recognized by the
NIC, was in part due to fraternities’ pro-
motion a safer campus social climate.
Past alcohol-related activities in-
clude last academic year’s grant to host
two Alcohol Summits and the fomiation
of Generals Advocating Safe Driving.
W&L’s fraternities are also in-
volved in community service, spon-
soring or participating in a local win-
terization project, a Holiday Decora-
tions Contest for Montesorri School,
the annual Lip Synch fundraiser for
Students against Rockbridge Area
Hunger and a golf tournament to ben-
eﬁt the American Cancer Society.
“I’m excited for our Greek lead-
ers,” said IFC Advisor William “Burr”
Datz. “They have generally been
working hard to make positive contri-
butions both on and off campus, and
it’s reassuring to be recognized by .
such a prestigious organization such
as the NIC.”
The N orth-American Ir1tema-
tional Conference has four hundred
national members, including W&L.

size of Roanoke.

situation,” Young said.

fellow MP’s did “second
tier” work: traffic control,
backup and building
security.

Young had agreed to
serve a one year tour

this one kid is beer bong, he asked me ‘Come
on, man, weren ’t you ever in a fraternity? ’
And I said ‘My fraternity was the 716"’ MP
Battalion in Saigon, Vietnam.’

Director of Security Mike
Young is one of the few and
the proud Vietnam Veterans
working on Washington and
Lee’s campus. He joined the
US Army at the age of 19, and
was stationed in Saigon, a
city of three million people the

“I was the same age as you
(students), just in a different

Young served as a military
police officer in the 716"‘ MP
Battalion. In that capacity, he protected
Americans and their allies, particularly he stayed for seven years.
Australians and New Zealanders. He and

from 1967 to 1968. Three weeks before
he was due to return home, however,
plans changed with the Tet Offensive.
The Viet Cong had laid siege to Saigon, a

Young shares military past

city that until then had been considered
safe. The Viet Cong attempted to capture
the American embassy and other
American,-controlled buildings.

His battalion resisted them, becoming
the “only Military Police Battalion ever to
engage in combat with an enemy,” Young
said. Thirty-seven men were lost in the
first 30 minutes of fighting, the first losses
the battalion had suffered.

Returning home, Young
was disheartened by the chilly
welcome he and fellow
veterans received.

“We were spit on and
called names,” Young said.
“Often, we denied that we had
served in the army.”

Prior to his military
service, Young had studied to
become a barber. However, in
the 1970s men’s long hair led
to a decreased demandfor
barbers. Young decided
instead to work as a police
officer at the University of Iowa, where

 

YOUNG

Young then served as police chief of
Titon, Iowa, for ten years.
After a four-year stint as
Rollins College’s campus

« safety director, Young moved
to Lexington to become
W&L’s director of security.

“I love myjob,” Young said. “The kids
are great.”

Young adds, “I get up every morning and
want to come to work Not everyone can say that.”

FRONT PAGE
FEATURE

 

later, Enron had become one of the largest corporations in -

  

JAMES; 2'; s ‘:"’v’:s..‘F*:‘. 1:; 
"mt-.~;:; «-.*.~a'*~’ . six -3 me '.‘:~:‘i-mt: I‘:
...~. .‘,__' V“ 

Jun 

  

PAGE 2

 

THE. RrNtHi.r..iPH1

TAFF EDITORIAL

Alumni: How much
policy should they dictate?

In a little over one week’s time, the class
of 2002 will cross from one column in the
university’s ledger into another, that of the
alumni. In the not-so-near future they can ex-
pect a slew of solicitations for donations, e-
mail updates, pamphlets, letters and other
bothersome dispatches.

But can they expect a voice? Surely a
Washington and Lee diploma bestows a level
of import to a man’s word regarding the affairs
of his alma mater—much more so than any
Johrmy-come-lately outsider who thinks he has
an honest appreciation of Lexington life.

After all, who could possibly argue that
tradition, the mortar that binds together every
brick on our fair campus, is guarded better by
anyone but our graduates? They provide the
governor on the W&L engine, keeping our
school’s experience uniquely ours. Otherwise,
our collective history is as meaningless as
students’rights in a Lexington police station.

For that duty alone, alumni deserve our
undying respect and gratitude, as well as the
adrninistration’s listening ear. But that thanks
does not behoove the entire community to
hang upon their every word.

Consider the fate of coeducation, had it
been left strictly in alumni hands. Nearly every-
one would agree that the introduction of women
has done nothing but improve the overall qual-
ity of life and academics. If we thought that
women do not have a place on campus, then
surely it was a massive folly for the university to
bankroll the construction of Sorority Row.

Alumni carmot expect their word to be ﬁ-
nal, or that in every situation they know what
is best for Washington and Lee.

Arriving at a course of action requires an
exchange among the alumni, the admir1istra—
tion and current students: not a decree issued
by a handful of Five-Star Generals, sur-
rounded by wistful memories of “the good old
days.”

In that respect, the occasional friction be-
tween Washington Hall and our alumni para-
doxically prevents us from slowing down and
sinking into a trough of inertia.

UOTE OF THE WEEK!

“ALPHA GOT
SCREWED AGAIN

I)!

—— ANONYMOUS FRATERNITY MEMBER TO
ANOTHER ANONYMOUS FRATERNITY MEMBER

P)

“[EX1>LErrvE] THAT [EXPLETIVE].

Editor-in-chief Matthew B. McDer'rnott
Associate Editor Katie J. Howell
Asst. News Editor Imran Naeemullah
Opinions Editor AndrewA. Latimer
Editor-in-exile Brett T. Kirwan
W&Life Editor Catherine C. Guy
Sports Editor David M. Crowell
Photo Editor MaryE. Guy
Photographer Jeb Brooks
Business Manager Paul A. Seifert
Circulation Manager Brian Castleberry
Asst. Business Manager Emily Barker
Advertising Manager William Litton
Internet Editor Peter L. Djalaliev

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee Uni-
versity, Lexington, Virginia. The Washington and Lee
Publications Board elects the Editor-in-chief, but The
Ring-tum Phi.is otherwise independent. p

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible submis-
sions and letters. All submissions must be e-mailed to
phi@wlu.edu or in the University Center mailbox by 5
p.m. Friday to appear in the following week’s edition. The
Ring-tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for con-
tent and length. Letters and colurrms do not necessarily
reﬂect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board.
Advertising does not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum
Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes current court
definitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Mailing Address: University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Street Address: 31 Washington Street
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Fax: (540) 462-4059
Email: phi@wlu.edu
http://phi.wlu.edu

Annual Subscription Rate: $30

 l{lN(.l-Tl.‘éM Pm

PINIONS     

Time for President Bush,
Congress to hit the books

Promises tail to pan out as administration flunks America ’s children

So George W. Bush was “elected” under
the slogan, “The Education President.” The
question is how has he done? Well, I think it’s
time that Bush got his report card.

Let’s just say that I don’t think I’d be pass-
ing little W. on to the next grade. I think he
needs to be held back for at least a year. The
problem is, much like many other things with
this admiriistration, money. Tax cuts that were
too much are pulling money from parts of the
national budget that need it the most.

The Bush education budget falls $7.2
billion short of the targets set by the edu-
cation bill. The bill was

spoke recently letting his constituents know
the problems that have been the result in Wash-
ington because of budget cuts. “Last fall my
colleagues and I proudly passed the ‘N 0 Child
Left Behind’ Act in a bipartisan fashion. When
the bill was si ned by President Bush, I was
confident that our children and our public
schools would truly be helped by the innova-
tive reforms and increased funding in this his-
toric bill,” Hinjosa said.

However, he stated that his confidence
was only lasted from Jan. 6 of this year when
the bill was passed until Feb. 4, when Bush
presented his annual bud-

passed with bipartisan LEFT OF CENTER get to Congress. “The
support largely because ‘ President’s budget is to-
Democrats supported NICK RAMSEY  tally inadequate to fund

those targets to ensure
schools received adequate funding. .

However while the bill itself sounded
good, Bush’s budget cuts or eliminates
57 different education programs, totaling
more than $1.8 billion in cuts.

President Bush visited Milwaukee re-
cently actually speaking about his great
bipartisan education bill passed in Janu-
ary. Democrats pointed out that his bud-
get failed the promise of that bill. Bush’s
budget cuts dozens of programs and falls
well short of the funding targets set by
the “No Child Left Behind” Act Bush
signed in January. So much for campaign
promises. America, you got your tax cuts,
but at what cost?

Milwaukee Represenatives had a few
things to say about the President’s visit. “I
am happy to see the president talking about
education and reading to schoolchildren, but
the fact is that his rhetoric is not matched by
resources in his education budget proposal,”
said Representative David Obey (D-WI). While
Bush was in Milwaukee, Obey showed how
Bush’s proposed budget eliminates a $300,000
arts education program in Milwaukee and
freezes a $322,000 after-school program in La
Crosse, Wis.

What is even worse is that Bush is re-
ceiving a thumbs-down from Politicians from
his own state. Congressman Ruben Hinogosa

Letter to the Editor

K The following letter was sent to campus news outlets, and it
is this papers policy to acknowledge it as an Opinions piece.

University must disclose Sale Place to alumni

Dear Editor,

Should students who are approaching graduation be
told that when they become alumni they will no longer be

fully informed about events on campus?

The W&L SafePlace programis acaseinpoint ThisUni-
versity—sponscred program to promote the acceptance of homo-
sexuality on campus has not been described to W&L alumni.
Neither the monthly e-mail news bulletins to alumni northe quar-
terly Alumni Magazines have described the Safe Place program

Despite repeated requests that W&L alumni be informed
about the Safe Place program, neither the President, you, the
Director of Communications, the BC, the Director ofAlumni Pro-
grams, nor the W&L Board of Trustees have been willing to act

Students are aware of the lively opinions expressed in cam-_
pus publications about the Safe Place program, but W&L alumni
are being deliberately uninformed about this program Does the
Administration feel that the Safe Place program is too controver-
sial for alumni, especially in the midst of afund-raising campaign?

Isthis censorship good for W&L? The alumni are the
University’s largest ﬁnancial supporters; do they not deserve
an honest reporting of campus developments? Surely a Uni-
versity is above all a place for the free exchange of news and
opinion? How can we take ourselves seriously as a University
when an ofﬁcially-sponsored program is hidden from a large
part of the W&L commturity? Is this a mature attitude?

Finally, if news of the Safe Place program is unbear-
able to the largest and most powerful part of the W&L

-community, its alumni, at what point must we ask if it is

unbearable to the University?

If the Safe Place program can only survive secretly on
campus, does it deserve to exist at all? Can an institution like
W&L, which values honesty, hide a program because it may
be unpopular to some? Should we not demand the truth?

The alumni and future alumni deserve more than
expedient political secrecy about the Safe Place program.
They deserve honesty from the W&L Administration.

Sincerely,
David A. Keeling ‘73

BEFORE YOU HEAD HOME...

Come by and see Skip, Marla, Connie and Wilson.

SKIP THOMPSON’S
BARBER SHOP

22 S. Main Street 0 Lexington, VA

Open Mon., Tues., Thurs., & Fri. 8 a.m. -5 pm;
Sat. 84a.m.-noon; Closed Wed. & Sun.

540-463-5954

 

even the basic programs in
the bill.” Hinjosa continued, “It does not
even meet inﬂation and contains over $1 bil-
lion in program cuts.”
Moreover, here’s something that hits
a little closer to home for college students
like ourselves. It was just last week that
the President was temporarily given the
cold shoulder by Congressional Demo-
cra‘ts in his attempt to abandon govern-
ment support for student loans. Bush pro-
posed to change students loans from a
fixed-rate to a variable rate. The idea was

‘to use the projected savings from these

increase in loan payments for “other pri-
orities.” Meanwhile, these proposed vari-
able rate loans would be costing college
students thousands and thousands of
dollars over the life of their loan.

So, sadly, at a time when the green is
running a bit short in Washington, the
country’s educational systems and pro-
grams seem to be the ones to suffer. And
the point that I am trying to make is the lack
of priorites and forethought coming out of
the White House is our biggest problem.

We need our leaders to plan for the
future, not slash their income just when
our country has had some economic suc-
cess. Like so many things from the Bush
administration, it sounded like a good idea
at the time. Hindsight is like that.

    

.\, .«
.,. .,¢
,.;,~. ,

r,. .2 ‘mil tr

__ I.
ONSEDHOR

EMA11; LAnruu@rnnrDu

May 1 5 : The Capitol was inundated
with lobbyists and activists representing
the District of Columbia. The day had
been declared “No Taxation VV1thout Rep
resentation Day,” by those who see a dis-
turbing parallel between the status of our
seat of government and the thirteen colo-
nies vis a vis the government

Congressmen were being lobbied
in favor of a bill by the same name.
Sponsored by
Eleanor Holmes-
Norton and Joseph
Lieberman, the “No
Taxation Without
Representation Act,” would place a
moratorium on the collection of fed-
eral income tax from Washington, DC,
residents until the district is given rep-
resentation in Congress. _

I must admit, this is a great idea! Not
because the district should have repre-
sentation; it is constitutionally prevented
from having any. This bill is pure genius
because no one who does have repre-
sentation in Washington should have to
pay income tax, let alone those who don’t.
Moreover, creating a'tax—free zone would
set an incredible example for the nation
and do wonders for Washington.

Firstly, imagine what will happen to
property values when Washington be-
comes the East Coast’s own Monaco.
The rich and well—to-do will ﬂock to
Anacostia and Capitol Heights seeking
to claim residence and relieve themselves
of income tax. What better way could
there be to cure the blight and poverty
that plagues our nation’s capital?

Secondly, the tax—free zone would
show what the power of strong economic
incentives can do for an economy. With
his 1981 and ‘83 tax cuts, Ronald Reagan
proved to the nation what miracles an
economy produce when its consumers
and producers are given the proper in-
centive. If given free reign to keep any
and all of what he might earn, imagine
the effort a D.C. resident would achieve,
given passage of this legislation.

I did not think the day would ever
come when I would congratulate Joe
Lieberman on his perspicacity and

 
 

DlSlZlT(H FROM THE DISTRICT
_ 

MONDAY, MAY 27, 2002 ‘

Taxation? Representation?

Democrat bill would work wonders for Washington, nation ~<

courage, but the N 0 Taxes Act is a real
winner. Let’s hope it gains some trac-

tion and a Republican sponsor or two. 1.

In other news, Friday afternoon,
as a few of we Washington Terrners
were headed to the Holocaust Mu-
seum, we were prevented from using

the sidewalk that runs directly in ..

front of the White House’s South
Lawn and were sent across a field
towards the Wash-
ington Monument.
A small crowd had
gathered in the field
and we too stopped
to determine what the fuss was about.

Serendipitously, we were just in time .

to witness the President’s arrival onto the
South Lawn in Marine One, his helicop-
ter. You wouldn’t think that seeing the

landing in person would be very exciting A I

(everyone has seen it on television doz-
ens of times), but the majesty of the ar-
rival seen in person, even ﬁom a distance,
proved to be a highlight of the trip.

Interestingly, when the show was A

over, we saw three helicopters headed
back towards Andrews Air Force Base.
Apparently, Marine One was accompa-
nied by at least two decoys. It’s good
to know that W. is safe.

A ﬁnal note on my trip to the Holo-
caust Museurn Ifyou’re ever in Washing-
ton, make an elfort to go. It certainly isn’t

uplifting or cheery, but is a very powerful at

experience. The museum route traces the
history of the Nazis’ rise to power and the
progressive removal ofrights, fromnot
Jews,buttradeunionists,thehandi '
gypsies, and other “undesirables.”
Next,.one sees a detailed recounting
of the tactics used to isolate and exterrni—
nate the Jews. Using simple items such as

conﬁscated shoes and luggage, as well ,

as complex recreations of the Auschwitz
gas chambers and graphic video footage,
the true honor of the Holocaust.

If nothing else, the museum tour put
in proper perspective the petty disputes
that seem to consume Washington. Poli-
tics can be about very important things,
but so often isn’t Now that our generation
is at war; we, too, must stay focused.

 

 

Ttitji RlN(.£-~Tt.tM Pin

"MONDAY, MAY 27, 2002

IVI-\R\' Gui’/The Ring-tum Pi

1 MAN on THE HOUR. Sophomore midﬁelder Dustin Martin advances the ball in a

March 9 loss to Gettysburg. The Bullets defeated W&L, 12-8, in the NCAA Division
III Semiﬁnals on May 18, despite two goals from Martin.

ORTS
.Gttysburg ousts Genera

DAVID M CROWEIL
SPORTSEDHOR

Einir.-or arnu

BY DAVID CROWELL
SPORTS EDITOR

The trio of Tim McGinnis, Ric
Bremer and Pete Milliman ﬁnally put
a stop to what Harnpden—Sydney and
Washington College could not.

McGinnis made 20 saves in goal
and the senior duo of Bremen and
Milliman totaled 12 points to key a
12-8 victory in the NCAA Division III
Semifinals and put an end to the Wash-
ington and Lee men’s lacrosse team’s
magical run through the playoffs on
May 18.

“I think we played well, but lost to
a very good team who played a very
good game,” sophomore attackman
Matt Fink, who scored four goals in
the defeat, said. “Their goalie is in-
credible and he’ll probably be a First
TearnAll-American.”

Coach Mike Cerino agreed with
Fink’s assessment, calling McGinnis
“probably the most dominant player
in Division HI right now.”

The top-ranked Bullets started the
game with a quick goal 39 seconds in,
but Fink evened the scored with 10:55

‘Proko, Hatley garnerA||-America honors

BY DAVID CROWELL
SPORTS EDITOR

ally defended her singles crown, defeated Proko 4-6, 6-2, 6-2.
“I was pleased with my play against Blanina,” Proko

said. “I came out on fire and didn’t miss hardly anything

In addition to leading the Washington and Lee women’s
tennis team to a third place ﬁnish in the team competition,
junior Erika Proko and senior Melissa Hatley earned All-

; America honors after advancing in the individual singles
and doubles competitions.

Proko, the No. 4 seed in the singles tournament, started her
run to the semifinals on Monday by defeating junior Laura
Beduhn of Gustavus Adolphus in the first round and then

“ knocking otf Amherst freshman Rachel Holt in the round of 16.

Proko then proceeded to exact revenge on Emory’s
Margaret Moscato in the quarterﬁnals, grabbing a 6-3, 6-
1 victory on Tuesday morning. Moscato had defeated

‘ W&L freshman Lindsay Hagennan to remove the Gener-
als from the team competition on May 18.

“The win over Moscato had a lot of personal meaning
to me, after she threw us out of the team tournament,”
Proko said. “I deﬁnitely had revenge on my mind.”

A Proko’s run through the individual tournament ended
when she ran into top-ranked and defending champion Elena
Blanina of Methodist in the semiﬁnals. Blanina, who eventu-

America honors.

in the first set. Her game is exceptional though, and I
couldn’t keep it up for the second and the third.”

In the doubles portion of the tournament, Proko teamed
with Hatley to ﬁnish in the top eight.

In the round of 16, Proko and Hatley defeated
Rochester’s Joanna Toke and Rachel Sandler, 6-3, 7-6 (4).

The win advanced them to the NCAA Division III
Quarterﬁnals, where they were pitted against Emory’s Mary
Ellen Gordon and Anuish Natarajan, the defending na-
tional champions, on Tuesday afternoon.

The loss gave Proko and Hatley a doubles record of
25-6 on the season, a record that helped them gamer All-

For Hatley, the tournament also marked the end of her
memorable four-year career.

“Erika and I had a great year playing doubles together,”
she said. “Being able to play together for the past two
years gave us the experience we needed to succeed in
doubles play. Being out on the court with her was a won-
derful way for me to end my collegiate career.” 1

left in the first quarter off an assist “Most people would say ‘we had a

from freshman Gavin Molinelli.

From here, the Bullets shot back
with three straight goals to seize a 4-1
lead. Fink put W&L back to within
two by scoring the final goal of the
quarter off an assist from sophomore
Rich Williams.

Both teams scored once in the sec-
ond quarter, with sophomore
midﬁelder Dustin Martin scoring for
W&L. The ofﬁcials called off an ap-
parent goal by Molinelli, that would
have cut Gettysburg’s lead to 5-4, be-
cause a W&L player was in the crease.

Gettysburg broke open the game
in the third and fourth quarters with
seven unanswered goals.

“We came out strong and they just
put a bunch on us in the third,” senior
attackmanAndrew Barnett said. ‘Things
just seemed to snowball from there.”

Cerino agreed with Barnett, but
also felt the Bullets’ run is deceiving.

“We weren’t able to capitalize on
our opportunities and that really hurt
us. We outshot them, eight to six, in
the third, but we couldn’t put them
away,” the first-year coach said.

BY DAVID CROWELL
SPORTS EDITOR

PARENTS.’ this makes a great graduation present!

V SENIORS: Just because you’re leaving doesn’t mean you have
i If to lose touch with W&L. Keep informed with a Phi subscription.

send a $35 check to
The Ring-tum Phi
W&L University Center

Lexington, VA 24450

after this,
     will  of

  

On May 18, the Washington and
Lee women’s tennis team seemed
poised to reach the NCAA Division
III Championship match. Emory,
however, slammed the door on the
Generals’ chances in semiﬁnal play.

The Eagles used a big comeback
by Margaret Moscato at No. 2
singles to seize a 5-4 victory over the
Generals (22-3) and earn the oppor-
tunity to face Williams College for
the national title.

The Generals started the day in the
hole by dropping two of three doubles

' matches. Senior Melissa Hatley and

junior Erika Proko lost at No. 1 doubles
to the defending national champions
in doubles play, Mary Ellen Gordon and
Anuisha Natarajan.

Senior Manning Willard and
freshman Lindsay Hagennan earned
the sole doubles victory at No.2.

“Lindsay and Manning had a
great tournament at doubles. They
lost a close one (in a match against
Pomona-Pitzer in the quarterﬁnals),

rough third quarter, but in reality we
were controlling play. We ran into a
goalie who had a career day.”

In fact, McGinnis stopped ﬁve of the
Generals’ eight shots in the third quar-
ter after making 10 saves in theiﬁrst half.

The 12-3 deﬁcit, however, did not
end W&L’s hopes. The Generals
mounted a furious comeback, scoring
the ﬁnal ﬁve goals of the game, but it
was too little, too late.

Fink scored two of the ﬁnal five
goals to lead the Generals’ attack. The
game was an appropriate ﬁnale to the
first-year starter’s season, as he ﬁn-
ished as W&L’s top scorer with 45
goals and 15 assists.

“I was just shooting the ball really
well on Saturday,” Fink said. “On my
first two goals the shots hit the pipe
and went in so I knew I was shooting
the ball well.”

Cerino felt Fink’s performance
capped a ﬁne season of improvement,
saying that “the nice part about Matt’s
game is that he developed as the year
went on. He helped us control posses-
sions, he improved his dodging and

but for the most part got our only
doubles victories,” coach Cinda
Rankin said.

Rankin felt that the Generals
faced a tough obstacle by getting
off to a slow start in doubles, but
also stressed that the team was more
prepared for singles play.

“The 2-1 deﬁcits in doubles are
very tough to overcome, but the kids
played well in singles,” she said. “We
seemed to be much stronger in
doubles during the middle of the sea-
son, in late March. We put more of
an emphasis on singles play later in
the year and it showed.”

W&L split the singles matches,
with Hatley, junior Laura Bruno and
Willard winning at No. 3, 4 and 6
singles respectively. In Hatley’s win,
she overcame a 4-1 deﬁcit in the third
set to seize victory.

“I lmew that I had to win my match
for the team to win,” Hatley said. “I
think that I just wanted to win more
than my opponent and was not will-
ing to leave the court until I had ac-
complished that.”

Moscato ended W&L’s run,

 A corporate ladder

1’ _;f?E'a  RtIJtT-Q.  get ta do shift" tt';v.at‘f“tE cit-5%-sage rim. ?5t3t:~§i:h p:>h;tsait:eIl:;% asnrﬁ saerst.a=E_§g5r..  
" ‘jissae gs, r3,:tagi"§i::‘.dae.:'aIr::-p striti-5 that: see use  fg;‘D{l%.,{' t:aree.sf. Eikie tihjisslaritr-rig t:»r1.3.»"esi“  rrratriag   

3fa’s nattrinfg  "

PAGE 3

ls from postseason play

became a more complete attacker.

“As the rest of his game grew, he
found himself getting more opportu-
nities.”

The game marked the third time the
men’s lacrosse team has reached semi-
ﬁnals play. None of those trips ended
with a victory, but expect this team, a
squad no one expected to get this far,
to change that in the future.

“Everyone was counting us out
throughout the season,” Barnett said.
“We had lost our coach, many tal-
ented seniors, and we were starting a
very young group, but everyone
seeemed to step up. We were a ‘true’
team and everyone had to contribute
everyday for us to be successful.”

Fink, who will form an integral part
of next year’s team, expects a bright
future for the Generals.

“I think at the beginning of the year
we felt we were in the shadow of last
year’s seniors, but now we know we
can play with and beat the top teams
in the country,” he said. “I look for-
ward to, keeping up the level of play
from this year and advancing further
in the tournament next year.” 1

Women’s tennis seizes 3rd in nation

Genera/s drop heartbreaker to Emory, rebound to defeat Trinity (Texas)

though, by coming back from the brink
of defeat to beat Hagerrnan 6-7 (7-1),
7-6 (5), 6-3 .,

Hatley noted the intensity of her
teammates during the loss, saying
that “everyone fought so hard dur-
ing that match. I don’t think I’ve
seen a team want to win a match more
during the 4 years I have played.”

The Generals bounced back from
the defeat the next day, beating Trin-
ity, 5-4, to wrap up a third place ﬁnish.

Great singles play paved the
way for the win, with Hatley,
sophomore Liz Law, Bruno and
Willard all easily winning their re-
spective matches from three
through six in two sets.

Rankin felt proud of the way the
team came back from a heartbreak-
ing defeat.

“I was very proud of the way we
came out and got after it. Irnrnedi—
ately after Emory, the team really
wanted to go out and ﬁnish the sea-
son with a win. The pride and deter-
mination, the conviction, were all
there,” Rankin said. “It makes a coach
very proud.”

 

MONDAY, MAY 27, 2002

BY MICHAEL LEE
srorrrs WRITER

When athletes of such high caliber like volleyball player
Lindsay Ruckert, tennis players Melissa Hatley and Erika
Proko, or cross country and track runner Burke Duncan
populate Washington and Lee, the choice for top female

athlete would seem tough.

But very few athletes rack up the statistics and acco-
lades that senior Jessica Mentz compiled during her ﬁnal
season as the starting forward for the Generals. .

The first W&L player to ever be named the Old Domin-
ion Athletic Conference Player of the Year, Mentz also
garnered Virginia State Player of the Year honors and earned
a spot on the All-South Regional first team.

For her numerous accomplishments this season and
her tremendous importance to the W&L women’s basket-
ball team, it is with great pleasure that The Ring-tum Phi
sports staff has chosen to name Mentz as the Female

Athlete of the Year..

According to Mentz’s coach, Janet Hollack, part of her
star forward’s success has come from her ability to play

above her size.

The 5-foot-9 Mentz “is not as tall as a lot of forwards,
but she used her head to get in position and get the re-

bounds,” Hollack said.

u

And grab the boards she did. Mentz led the league in

rebounding with 11.8 per game and also holds W&L’s
school record for career rebounds with 973.
This is all the more impressive when you consider that she

played most of her minutes with senior center Megan Babst on

the court. Babst, at six feet, grabbed 10.1 rebounds per game.
Mentz was also second in the league in scoring this
past season, at 20 points per game, and holds W&L’s
career scoring record with 1,742 points. '
Mentz broke 21 school records in her W&L career on
her way to becoming the most decorated women’s basket-

ball player in school history.

The barrage of postseason awards mirrored the way
Mentz battered opponents in the paint during the season.

Coach of theYearmakes immed

BY DAVID CROWELL
sronrs EDITOR

When Jim Stagnitta parted ways
with the Washington and Lee men’s
lacrosse program last fall, he left the
program in a precarious spot.

Stagnitta provided stability to the
program for 12 years and strength-
ened the ﬁne lacrosse tradition in-
grained into W&L history.

The Generals also faced the gradu-
ation of ﬁve All—Americans from a
squad that ﬁnished 14-1 : Matt Dugari,
Pope Hackney, Pete Iwancio, Bernie
Norton and Wes Hays. .

Luckily, the athletic department
found a coach who knew a thing or
two about lacrosse to ensure that 2002
was not merely a “rebuilding” year.

For leading his team to a 14-4 record
and returning W&L to NCAA Division
HI postseason play, The Ring—tum Phi
sports staff has chosen to name Mike
Cerino the Coach of the Year.

Cerino accepted the honor by ﬁrst
emphasizing the foundation that
Stagnitta put into place before he arrived.

 
   
 
     
      

“There was a winning attitude in
place when I took over from Coach
Stagnitta and his staff. The guys were
used to being in the postseason and
used to being competitive,” Cerino
said. “We just needed to build on that
with this young group.

“But any time you get a new coach,
you get a fresh start. What was exciting
for some of these new guys is that they
were getting a clean slate, regardless of
what happened in the past. I think that
helped energize the team early on.”

Senior Andrew Barnett emphasized
that Cerino was able to win over the entire
team with his personality and style.

“People believed in his system and
what he told us. He instilled a sense
of conﬁdence in us and the team at-
mosphere that helpedus be success-
ful,” he said.

Cerino shined in the middle of the

. season by dwelling onlthe positives

and pushing his players to the last
second of each game.

He pointed to this season’s first
game against Hampden~Sydney, an 8-
5 loss, as a clear example of his ability

   
   
 

1 ...I+1‘§iiIN=(;§—';!..."‘().. 

._..,.._.

3;; U-r.'rr:'§($‘t'?k*‘t5.4' 

.\

     
   

3 .‘.'.~“i)t<.I4'.r.-a.:'.€’.t1'(r

DEEP FOCUS: Seniorjessica Mentz stood tall for the Generals
all season, leading the team in scoring and rebounding.
Mentz graduates with 21 school records to her name.

In addition to the aforementioned honors, she was the
first W&L women’s basketball player to be named an
NCAA Division III All—American, landing on the honor-
able mention squad.

To Hollack, these awards came as no surprise.

“Jessica put in the work to earn all those accolades.
She came in often on her own to work with me, and that
helped her game as well. She had a great work ethic,
and is a wonderful player,” Hollack said.

iateimpactforGenerals

' THE RI; ‘ o-mi; Pin

   .  -

Ring up one more for Merit

 
   

MARY GUY/The Ring-lm P/Jr’

to improve his team’s focus and de-
termination.

“We kept shooting, kept playing,
scored a late goal and I even called a
timeout in the last minute to show
them that it wasn’t over until the ﬁnal
second,” Cerino said. “I think that led
into our next game at Sydney (an 8-3
win), when we came in with great fo-
cus and really wanted that win.”

Sophomore Matt Fink praised
Cerino’s positive attitude, saying that
“he allows you to play your game and
always lets you know when you do
something right.”

Both Barnett and Fink felt that a
key to this team’s success was the
way Cerino adjusted strategy to fit
every player’s strengths.

“Coach’s style is to encourage team
play and it allowed a team like this, with
no real superstars, to get so far,” Fink
said. “He really plays on everyone’s
personal strengths so that everyone
helps the team in a different way.”

Cerino, however, acknowledged

his dependence on two able assis- .

tants, Ricky Matthews and Jason Rife.

Sullivan proves 2 ports re bette than1

BY MICHAEL LEE
SPORTS WRITER

It takes a lot to compete at the in-
tercollegiate level. Time, passion and
patience are a few qualities of the con-
summate athlete.

Junior Chris Sullivan is one of these
athletes, as he is able to participate
and excel in two varsity sports.

The Ring—tum Phi sports staff is
pleased to name Sullivan the Male
Athlete of the Year. '

Sullivan began the year on the grid-
iron. Sharing the offensive load with
senior Marc Watson, he was named
to the NCAA Little All-America third
team as an all—purpose runner.

Comprised of players from NCAA
Division II and HI teams, he was only the
second W&L player to make that team.

Sullivan led Division III with 2,024
all purpose yards this season, aver-
aging 202.4 yards per game. He rushed
for 1,189 yards and eight touchdowns
on a school-record 253 carries, caught
27 passes for 268 yards and another
touchdown, and returned 19 punts
and 13 kicks for 204 and 347 yards,
respectively. Sullivan was named to
the Al1—State First Team, All—ODAC
First Team, and the All"-South Re-
gional Third Tearn. I

FootbaIlcoachFrankMiriellohadnoth-
ing but good things to say about Chris.

“He’s a wonderful player. He brings ,

a lot to the table — he’s got speed,
he’s tough and quick, and he really
loves to play the game of football. He
loves to push himself to the lirriits and

Cerino already knew Matthews as
a player when the then-senior
captained Cerino’s Division H Lime-
stone squad to a national title in 2000.

“Ricky brought intensity. and an
attitude that championships are won
daily in practice and before the sea-
son even starts, in offseason condi-
tioning,” Cerino said. {

CerinoalsovaluedRife’sworkasabox
coach and his intensive ﬁlm preparation.

“Rife brought a real balance to this
team. It was the first time in a while
that I had an assistant who I hadn’t
worked with in the past, so he was a
breath of fresh air for me,” he said.

Don’t expect Cerino, however, to
rest on any laurels. He already plans
to take W&L, a team younger than
his 2000 championship team, to the
next step next year.

“I think this team can do a little
more off the ﬁeld, with weight train-
ing and conditioning,” he said. “It’s
a big jump to that title game and it
takes a lot to get over that last
hurdle.”

And he should know best.

      
 
  
   
    
   
    
  
 
 
 
    
   

r/_ .. ..,-iii. k.I\t/\'\i,i.,

A SPORTSEDHOR

FAHIL rBoyErro@uir

PAGE 4,

   

RAMBLE ON: Junior Chris Sullivan ran past a wide array of opponents in 2001,
rushing for 1,189 yards. Sullivan also captained die track team in the spring.

he’s a competitor — you can see it in
his eyes,” Miriello said about his team
captain.

Sullivan also had a great year on
the track team. He was selected to the
2002 Verizon Academic All-District 111
College Division Track and Cross
Country team on Thursday afternoon,
capping a stellar year in which he won
the long jump at the ODAC champi-
onships, with a leap of 21 feet, 11.25
inches.

BY MICHAEL LEE
SPORTS \‘(‘RITF.R

It is always tough as a fresh-
man atlileteto move up in the ranks
of the varsity teams in the shadow
of upperclassmen.

Some freshman athletes, though,
exceed all expectations. Jennifer Lux,
the freshman setter on the volley-
ball team, impressed all observers
of Washington and Lee athletics
with a superb rookie campaign, in-
cluding coach Bryan Snyder.

“She took over as our setter
as a freshman, and that’s a very
difficult position because the of-
fense runs through her on every
possession,” Snyder said. “She’s
got a tough serve, she’s a great
defender, and is an all-around
great player.”

The recognition surprised but
pleased Lux.”

“It deﬁnitely comes as a sur-
prise and an honor,” Lux said. “I
was really excited to play here as
a freshman. I play volleyball be-
cause, it’s a team sport, and I love

Lux offers breath of fresh air’

    
  
  
   
  
 
  
   
  
   
   
  
   
  
  
  
   
   
   
  
  
  
   
  
    
  
  
   
     
  
    
   
 

 

r‘lAR)‘ (iU\  ng»tur}1P/yi

R

He also took second in the 100-
meter dash (11.20 seconds), ﬁfth in
the 200—meter dash (23.55 seconds)
and seventh place in the javelin at the x
outdoor meet.

“He was our captain, our top
sprinter and long jumper,” track coach
Norris Aldridge said. “He owns the in-
door long jump record at W&L, set last It
year. He’s been a great leader and a
consistent performer for all three

years. ‘

this team. We get along very well.”

Lux was named the Old Dominion
Athletic Conference Rookie of the
Year and earned a spot on the Second
Team All—ODAC squad. ,

She had a stellar year by setting a k
new school record for season assists
with 1,186. Lux was third on the team
in service aces with 54 and a hitting
percentage of .31 1 .

In a victory against Roanoke onli
October 3, she posted 49 assists, 19
digs, six kills and five blocks. She con-
sistently recorded 30 assists per match.

She helped the Generals to a con-
ference title, which gave W&L an au}
tomatic bid to the NCAAToumam nt.
There, they beat sixth-seeded Chris-
topher Newport, but lost to Emory in
the South Regional Semifinals. 1.

With the success of this season,
Lux understandably expects victories
next season, when she enters her sec-
ond year running the offense.

“I was very excited with our success
this season, and we’ve been working in
the off season, so hopefully next year
will be just as successful,” Lux said.

h

A

   

From Isca to all the senior Co-op work studies:

 
 

ebest!

“I especially want to thank you all for
all the support and love you’ve shown ..
me on campus and off. I’m very proud

of you and know that you all will do
well in whatever you decide to do. ”

     
  
 
 

--/SCA Kr/ve

For great‘tIta~t§3or and aro?:rta_., never drink -cofiee .a1r::re than 2 w‘ee.k:s aid.
Thaﬂs witty alt oéur -ceii-'ee.s are marked witli the roasting date.
9 WEST‘WASIi1If-s’;GT0?4t S'I’R§§ZI:‘.;'l‘ - §sEZ}I2ilI?‘vi(§‘l7()§*3 ' 464-6:586‘

  Mountain Traditions.  

Unique Rustic Furniture

Decorations and Gifts
     

   

  
  

    

,Hours:Mon.-Sat. 10-5; Sun. 11-3

 
 

   
  

 

ONE LAST BAG. Freshman Orientation Committee members pile on the help.

-J-A

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

NG-TUM

 

jEB BROOKS / The Ring-tzrrn P/ll

I ijEBBROoKS/TbeR1rrg-Inn!
BREAKING A SWEAT. Junior Amy Blakeway carries a freshman’s belongings into his new room in Baker Hall. She and other
members of the Freshman Orientation Committee helped freshmen move in all Saturday morning.

P H1 

T/n ttnrlent none of Wrnlnngton and Inn Uninernn since 7897 (D On/inn nt: p/n'.nln.en’n

SPEIEIM.
mesa:-m
Biilillmfiﬂll
ISSIIE

   - 
TUESDAY, SEYIEMBER 3, 2002

 

Move-in mania

Upperclassmen, administrators help freshmen move into rooms, adjust to colleg

BY KATIE HOWELL
EDITOR IN (illlEl‘

Though University Commons
construction limited parking and pe-
destrian space, freshmen moved into
their dorm rooms without trouble.

“Everything’s going great,” said
Dawn Watkins, dean of freshmen.

Watkins said the Class of 2006, I

with 460 students, is one of the larg-
est in Washington and Lee’s his-
tory.

After Move-In Day, the freshman
began Orientation. which will end with
class on Thursday. The Freshman
Program also began, with a dinner in
Evans Dining Hall. The Freshman Pro-
gram, an extended process of famil-
iarization, will continue throughout
the academic year.

“Move-in went really smoothly,”
said junior dorm counselor Bill
Gilsenan. “All my guys got moved in
with no problem by 1200.”

Some freshmen and dorm coun-
selors thought the rule prohibiting
cinder blocks to raise beds hindered
the move-in process.

i “It seems odd,” said freshman
Reed Evans. “I don’t understand why
they’re not doing it.”

Others, however, thought this
new rule was not a problem.

“I never planned on bringing
(cinder blocks),” said freshman Tom
Borda. “I brought some bedposts, and
they work just as well.”

Freshmen orientation activities
are continuing today and tomorrow
with Honor System orientation, reg-
istration, Big Brother/Big Sister din-
ner and matriculation. A

“I’m really excited about every-
thing,” said freshman Liz Bidinger.

a mum:

EM!
 ma
ttttzrsarrﬁs

     

jEE BRO<)K5/ T/re Ring-Izr/n P/21
YoU’RE WELCOME. Numerous campus
groups, including the Rugby team,
gathered in the quad Saturday to help
incoming freshmen.

NO

(WVDER
BLOCKS

ALLOWED
IN THE
DORMS

 

jEB BR(X >res/ Tin Ring-trim Pin"
BLOCKED OFF. Administrators forbid
cinderblocks to the class of 2006. This
surprise decree, unannounced in any
preceding orientation literature, raised
mixed reviews.

lE.B BRO0l{S/ Tbe Ring-tum Phi

EVERYBODY WAS KUNG FU FIGHTING. Excitement runs high as employees ofthe Physical Plant gear up
for the inﬂux of freshmen, their parents and their belongings.

 

W&L is great,
but I’m not much for my room.
— REED EVANS, GREENSBORO, NC

 

I talked on the phone with my
roommate before school,
but I haven’t met him yet.
It’s going to be a neat experience.
— ZACH NUGENr, ST. CHARLES, IL

 

I thought about bringing cinder
blocks, but my roommate came early,
and she called to let me know
we couldn’t.

— LIZ BIDINGER, BALTIMORE, MD

 

I have a great room with two
windows, and I am surprised how
much space I actually have.

I thought I would be
crammed in here.

—— TOM BORDA, NORTHVILLE, MI

urish keeps office door open

j Bkoo s/T/teng-lion Pr;

BURLY BURISI-I. Washington and Lee’s new president,
’' Thomas Burish, works alongside FOC members to help

freshmen move into their dormitories.

BY MATTHEW MCDERMOTT
EDITOR IN CHIEF

As demands of a new office will keep University
President Thomas Burish busy during the day, he in-
tends to meet students at night.

Burish “hopes students will visit him when the
light’s on in his office,” said Dean of Students David
Howison. The president has arranged for University
Security to leave Washington Hall unlocked whenever
he stays late.

“When I’m busy, that may mean that I have to
work in my office with a flashlight,” Burish said, “Ac-
tually, then I’ll probably just work at home.”

As university president, Burish resides in Lee House.

Burish also plans on more structured meetings.
He intends to meet monthly with heads of student
organizations.

“When I came to campus, I noticed that student
leaders didn’t have a chance to talk to one another,”
Burish said. The proposed meetings would allow the
president to guage student opinion and hear concerns
directly.

Burish also hopes to meet monthly with different
student groups.

“For example, at the end of the year, I would like to
meet with soon—to-graduate seniors, to discuss their
experience at W&L,” Burish said.

—An in-depth look at administrative changes
will appear in the Phi’s next issue.

BY SAM LAGRONE
\'.\ll DESK

Hi. Welcome to Washington
and Lee.

I don’t go to school there, but
I hear it’s nice.

I don’t know personally. I attend
the other small liberal arts college in
Lexington.

It’s different here. For one thing.

ﬁrst—year students here don’t worry
about the freshman ﬁfteen, ba—dump—
ching. (That’s my first hilarious joke.
This is the point during your orienta-
tion that you nudge the guy or gal
next to you and say, “Dude, check this
out. Sam LaGrone is as funny as a one-
legged guy playing wall ball.”)

So our schools are smack dab in
the middle of the city, butted up next
to each other. I like to imagine it’s a
pizza with a different topping on each
side. On your side it’s white cheese,
with delicate shitaki mushrooms. Our
half is gravel and bared wire.

    

Oh so rusty barbed wire.

Given the tendency of our
schools to communicate by glares, the
likelihood that any of you will talk to
a cadet is slim to fat chance. So we’ll
go over some frequently mused ques-
tions.

Q: Is VMI hard ?

A: It depends who you ask. Rats will
say it’s rough, but they mange to ﬁnd
breath in an effort to impress you. The
rest of us are trying to conserve
enough energy to breathe.

Q: Do you have to wear uniforms all
the time?

A: Yes all of the time. We even have
uniform pajamas. (No I’ m not making
this up. I’m serious. Mine have ﬂuffy
clouds on them.)

Q: Do you have to go into the military?
A: No. It’s up to the cadet. I’m not.
My roommate is though. He’s into
service to America and killing stuff.
Q: Why did you go there?

A: I was drugged by pirates and
dropped off here on the ﬁrst day.

GR\l’l*ﬂC(I()LIKIBY\XIW\¥/.\"lvl[Hll
Q: Do you like it?
A: Hey, look over there! (Patter of feet
to the nearest exit.)

On the occasion that we do talk
to a W&L person, it usually turns out
badly. 1
Wendy W&L: I-Ii, where do you go to
school.

Cadet Clyde: Uh, a small liberal arts
college in Lexington.

Wendy: Wow, what fraternity are you in?
Clyde: Alpha.

Wendy: Alpha Tau?

Clyde: No, Alpha Riﬂe Company.
Wendy: Oh. (Crosses arms and slowly
backs awat towards the nearest exit
avoiding eye-contact.)

That’s the extreme. It’s not always
that bad. It’s rare though that a W&L
person will hang out with a VNII guy
or gal. But let’s try to change that and
foster a new appreciation for each other
as we move into the 21st century.

Or invite me to a party.

Reach Sam LaGrone at
lagronesr@mail.vmi.edu.

 

 

R

 

  

THE

Editors in Chief Katie J. Howell

I  __ 7  7  I TUESDAY,,_SE1’TEMBER 3, 2002

News Editor Andrew Latimer

in .1 .._ ._ 1-
  ‘ Ilns snace donated In loving memory “
e C 6 l    THE RIN(5—TL'MPHI
UC ' 3
Opinions Editor Imran Naeemullalu . . I’

 
   
   

Am & Life Editor came,-ﬁne Guy This space providccl by IHI Rl\’(‘.—‘I'l'.\l P111.   

Sports Editor Jeremy Franklin
Asst. Sports Editor Dave Crowell

 

P/10t0Edit0r JebBrooks rjjj11111111:jj111111jjj1jj1111:111
Photographers Meg Ferrara I
Mary Guy
Business Manager Paul Seifert I
Am B1m'ne5sManager Thomas Worthy I
Circulation Director Henry Grimbau I
I
I
I
Spring Break 2003 with srs I I
Americas #1 Student Tour I W I8 I . . . - . .
Sen Tﬁ Se:f1°::::’TraVe1Free I Fight off the fearsome freshman 2.0! - 3*h'”“°« ¥"*“9“?'f1‘*’%’¢ :.‘32g§.°d“?i‘°? '97‘! 3 I
h,fo§,,,aﬁon,ReSe,Vaﬁ0nS I Let us take ovor whore mom loﬂ oﬁ wiih hoaltlq snacks and quick everyday V9'W- 9°v'Wh3*h9P 9”°”*8l‘9 8 W1 3*‘:
1-800-648-4849 or I moals that taste so good you won't even realize they're good for you.  I 8 shim‘: 0' 99" 3USW?8ﬁ*”fh9 ‘8*99— -355'”,
WVVW-StS‘1‘aV°1-°°m : . Our. icounfor culture. lunch Lountor . ‘ ‘ I 790*’ *‘9.9"9 2°**9A3-9*‘ W0 G*'8£f3%‘?I'9! f
I 55I'V5$   cheap Illﬂﬂll II! IGUK1, swam o~—omp17.%;P_1§ﬁ‘r§;g®e?;pII§fn::c6:?én§‘4:oéa:§va‘%a4:§o~15451434952?‘
. B :    ‘I2 Shayla: Mw.w¢{AH*2aMaog§§i §l?srnfug§~Tktx9sﬂI1;9x&nw££t1p.in., Fv~kIw«&aiz:rdayr9z.nx.-7 pant:
.  I I We have a huge selection of snack bare, healthy chips and crackers,
 l I and an expanded selection of individual serving items like instani
H E I I , soups, meals in a pouch and microwave frozen entrees.
NELSON FINE AI-{ram I WW F0046 Mm"
GALLERY I no ‘N Wasbmglou ‘E1!
27 W wash 8‘ I Loxirgtoo VA 24450 WOFFER:
- ""9*°“ '99‘ I 4*o'7'-‘V154 NEW BALANCE*CLARKS*TEVA* BOSTONIAN*ASIC5*$AUCONY*MERRELUSPENCO -
L°""'°'°"' v"°'"'“ I ww.hcalIh~{fooésmaﬂ:et.;om INSOLES *TONS OF BACKPACKS* RYDER EYEWEAR* SOCKS ‘

www.ne|sonfineartsga||ery.oom

0penDuIly1lu.m.-5p.m.    - I
ClosodWednodays&SIndoys A 1 z i i ;

AnI;rIu:::;I in 1' 999_ 102 W. Washington Street !

orignat works of painting and sculpture 463-5383

 WELCOME CLASS or 2006 ~

artist each mm Blue Blazers Lacoste

 Woolrich Bass

w||_|_IAMF,BYEFIs Duckhead Johnston & Murphy ”
BARBARACRAWFORD Tuxedo Sales & Rentals

DOHOTHYBLACKVIELL

”'s”EY°"'F"" W&L B 1 T’ s d 1 D 11

JANEWEAVER e ts, 1es, an a s, og Co ars
KWIYI  Visa Master Card Student Charge ' I

LEESAUDEH Alvin Carter, Owner -  Since 1963 I

       

E

§1‘UEs1m’. 3_,_T2O02 T  TT       T T T   TT r7        TT 

      
 

TRADITIONS

LET THE LIGHT SHINE

MOUNTAIN l
i
l
i

You're readinu this all. It could III! IIIIIIS. Pniadvenisinu works 458-Mllill. Ji

. Read Your Favorite Book By The Light
OfA Table Or Floor Lamp

. “En—light«en”Your Great Room With
A Beautiful Cast Horn Chandelier

Styled In Elk’MooseOrWhite-Tailed   D5

‘ Deer
University Sportwear and Custom Shop  o Beautiful1yAccentedBy Silhouette   Gifrs & snacks

For all your screenprinting Shad“ V “  ~ F01‘ 4” 0¢’¢'03"0”-"'
‘I and embroidery needs .FinishDecoIatingThatSpecial Room Treat a friend OI‘ YOQFSZ/f’
' With Perfectly Coordinated Lighting I Bad’, Fmsﬁwl J;-In Beam BBQ sauce,
FIxtIues, From Tab'leTo FloorTo -P ,
Swagﬂoscunces. Stress Mints! Lon oﬂan No. 91
9 N M _ St t Chocolate Bandaidsl dvocolare C/jqarsl
. am ree ‘ - kA Pppnrmf 7- '1 Salsa]
Lexington [C 53  4 ,V
463-7522 13 SI::vrvHIl\(d):ir:1S):REET ‘   I
Mon.-Sat. l0:00a.m.-5 p.m. LEXINGTOMVA ' FEM‘ fgaads’ I S A
Sun. 11:00 am. ~ 3:00 p.m.

15 W. Washington Street
 Lexington, Virginia
' “ 540-464-3000

-g .A.cces§era‘n:~;s Vb
www.funfoodsforyou.com  "- 

UPS-US MAIL-OVERNIGHT & INTERNATIONAL DELIVERY

We will package and/or send your items! We can make it easy to
get your things to and from school!

 II
« ac an al
‘ 4
as e   

al In en er    
   It     
T.   .T T’   ffaczaﬂs

We off er a PICK UP SERVICE to help you ship items home.       
CALL FOR MORE INFORMATION       

_     A’

     
 
     
  
   

A

 

Next to Subway on Nelson Street

a Package Receiving Package Storage    “ .  A 
Fax Services  Supplies 4 ‘ ’ =g;‘,y-. '0
Notary Service Copies 

Ii
’ .

~—*- —I

Try our new Domino's Pizza Buffalo  S

Chicken Kickers!       

Baked white whole breast meat with a
tangy breading on the outside.

Get two dipping sauces with every
order, Cayenne Pepper Sauce and your
‘ , choice of Ranch or Blue Cheese.
  Just $5.99!

. Give us a call today at 463-7375

i i\ I?/<*2<.«o iitiilizwzxrzzz,  

P
Tit  i  lit

 ‘-7  3;L— ' 5  
         Eaislying team. name
"i L‘ V Li:m:?é;ro.\.‘”x‘:R'c.iztI..\  _' ' _ 
   TFOTTUWD I749  I . 

'< T i.<;TsTIT\:iI<i at M

___,_ -....,.,.,....._.,,,....;..,." Y ,§ (  ,,‘   (.29, m - 2‘: o 1 c

ED

R

[1

30RN&   B

C

 

 

 VIRGINIA  
    (703)463—1s32   

‘'3\\.

PAGE 4

Tuﬁsmy, SEFIFMBFR 3. 2002

A13VERT1sEMENTs T J_

1

    

  

.9‘

<j.A+ Anon -I-kt vocal)

/\  ‘ﬁe ﬂak’ g E’ j ‘E .
KKT' {K15 nsé me xn "”"”" “"4 '
_} ?are.mo-$ 5' M
1 EA’: :1‘: '5' 9‘ 1‘
  §3.‘rLo‘A2
an e .-.4; '13 /A/an.-r-an ¢.r- C'¢_q-f¢v~
. "1
W I  
gqéu‘ &,‘llo1Id\
§w-‘A56 Do‘!-W5
r 73172:"
¢ A  J UIu'v.C£n‘I'¢r
 ‘ & A ' D
&”é  .:7‘ua/1;‘:
E $22? I *
‘§ 7@’ % T@! E?

 Lj‘E'FF£"l¢$oaJ fﬁs

@ {@ q>I<z ~

6 E Kb! {>49

2:» § (12? 2 N .
t .3”.
V‘ ~ .
@  @ § @’ 63» #7’
/‘7A//\/ 1 L- 
2,0
523’ T@f ~
9“ 1(2): @

3 ~V

§ .

E k /A~vou>.4 f
:3.‘ 52

V 
(K  V 1/A.¢~nr..

5% TN: 95 E I

$3 .

-—--A '7?‘ $ %
XX 522:2? S? P
ms we LEWRGT
KY "
K2 Q 4  Br 7%:/z. §E:F£*z4’r+*~'f'*
AXA KA ‘
m E A

(j"‘** Jam -{kc nn-.()

76')!

\L(}‘u-rfa.-(5«.v(wZl¢‘: d~\)A.3 ‘T, h

in '3v¢a.n. Vis-by.)

   
    

‘ I1

 

TUESDAY. SEPIEMBER 3. 2002

AﬁV1%RT1sEMENTs

I___

 
 

  

at m { Lna: 19
If n "' “‘ I fl’ fr
A 72-““°°‘> C'¢oL+a/‘

PAGE 5

?A.v§(: 

 

1|. '1‘
A I’ E’ i 3"
‘ .... = Q g F‘/v~A~I;_'4’/l'v‘¢{
3 -3- /4-/nai-Mu'u~4
3

   
  

 

 

 

 

 

Barr ze+».72e+«z~ 7rI<d57’.' Kay/A 74:

‘X3!’ (‘H 79:’ X4; s,é,,,.,/I/,A4.§,..*Ln
K/I K‘r’f" 4/7*‘ EX 5,?“ av.
/42. Kar/* 52"‘ EA, 5%,..- A/.,

/1704 1‘*’’‘’*‘‘"'/7’r‘~ 2355 s.-,».. 77A»'5..%»
{M 8 7%.’ va/+.«7z¢+.. x11 54; 0/wean»
  I 721 7A: am am 2A (9 ram 4/,» 754.
I @5169! 7%; /4”. 7%.’
i5KS 7% K»rr=~%«~ /4/<7w.,»,4z.,,.a..»,..
7TKA 7’: /am A//4.‘ ma § 77.‘ Baa 7%;

KA Kaffot Dc/1'4.

‘A/A812. 7'5 90 -for. . .

27/» M15» APPAREL

Y@I /‘I wm 5c/¢.:+.z Cu.-5.2.; 5;? Alma. -Dam.-«..

Y@P Blue Heron. C342 (E? 50%’; TM 5;”?
‘C9’ 'Dd7m'nos @ -P.1pP‘j¢(L°

‘®’ Hm’ (M a“''‘‘'’‘ ‘E? I/».;......:¢,, SP»:-4-5|-v¢4v~
 £4'nalJo£ &$¥-turau-'/‘ F-00.7‘/JE’4“Q

I@’ 5"""‘°  §r44eI»~ sax cg.
T®r smum L'.'"5‘ 6"LA$5E$/C0/07,46 T5
£0452:/€5,572. A \c%,7h MM &F+‘_a.aM$

- C’a./ spa, Drjauz /1’wu+
ﬁ£.’f;’1(‘;zf.”i:A‘;::ff* H4’/<CUT5
CD FFEF 586 7Z¢ dag, 54.;

® émo  .34/¢€.1‘$ %  /‘ha? $7f7l:'9'/‘
® Lex.;.,+m $42: l¢...,+.a., ca. 5% sex, ‘mmpw; Bwzw aw,»

  <9/FTs,ETc.

2‘ Ft/M Fae-16 é /(cc¢_sson'¢$

@ f/am:/¢m ﬂu,“
@ /"ecu-l¢I‘e.9 //4///hark.

A Z 7*
1:3-:3?  /\/c/gm Fine /(9-76 5-4//er}

SH’(7>P//U6-
EB 2164- Al /ha-7

DFFCAMPU6 Hops//ua—
/\ /4/ear-4¢«619h¢ Gm r47°*""M¢«*!
‘:1 pea/./4.. 3...»? mm.

ADVERTISEMENTS  

COO0OCOOOO000000000000000000OOIOOOIOOOOOOIOOO

LF.NIl\l(}T(_)l\'
COFEEE

.‘/'«1’~n*r.x-fr'Ju/ (.:}:n$/ur/n/

Phi staff meetings,
Mondays at 5.

Corner of Washington and
Jefferson Streets. Join us!

ALISON FROWN QUARTET

136 Varner Lane
Lexington, VA
463-3975

. Redken . Nexxus . Paul Mitchel
. Sebastian . Matrix Ltd.

at.
Sat, September 8
7:3 0 p.m.
“Like Bela Fleck (Alison
Brown) has raised the art of

banjo playing to a higher
calling.” Stereo Review

463-3074

WWW. TIIEATERI TLIMERILH. C015

 
 

. Walk-ins Welcome . Perms ‘Color
. Blow Dry Styling 3 Wet Sets 3 Facial Waxing
. Straightening and Curly Perms, etc

8-6 M-T F 8-5 Ample Free Parking

 

  

 
  

 

 

Wl‘Pt’S I-Dt At

The College Town Shop

111 W. Nelson St.

TRADITIONAL CLOTHING
FOR
ALL OCCASIONS

Your home away from home!

 BRING THIS AD IN 
3 .AND 2
: RECEIVE 20% OFF FIRST PURCHASE :

AMEX — VISA -— MASTERCARD — HOUSE CHARGES

0000000IOOOIOOOOOOIOOOOIOOOOOOOOIOOOOOOOOOOOO0.0IOCIOOIOO

 

ESPRESSO - CAPPUCGNO 0 BAGELS 0 MUFFINS * CROISSANTS
.9 WEST WASHINGTON STREET * LEXINGTON 0 464»-6586

 

Phi
culture.

Need

we say
more?

RING—TUM
/’ 

/
/ PHI
/
/ ./

/

advertising.

Hidd

I
‘ TUESDAY. SEPTEMBER 3, 2002

Welcome

Washington and Lee
Students and Parents

21 South Main Street

464-9142

en Springs Form

World class Quarter Horses’

Nevins H. & Deborah 0.. Wilburn
Lexington, Virginia 24450

Phone 540. 464. 1233

  wiibassoc rockbrid e.net

Way to
reach tj 1e ":3
students.  
//’// // I F urn

he ultimate study toot - COF.FEaE'/.
Try ours. tr‘: shade grown. orhonk:
and ON SALE this month.._,$7.99 ail

flavors. Customer quote: “Am I

S allowed to just stand here and smefl
your ooffee? You don't mind. do you?‘

6 neck Food- good friends, good Hum.

We have all manner of chips and dips.
sodas and solsos, juices, water, you name It
Customer quote: ‘I can so have this for
breakfast! Look If’: hecrtthyf

Bed & Breakfast — Lovely bed/bath

with adjacent sitting room
big screen TV, ﬁreplace

and many amenities.

Hearthstone Country Apartments —

ished (with washer/dryer)
or unfurnished.

Fresh Fruits . \

and Veggies -
portable, quick eats.

No insecticides or pesticides.
Customer quote: ‘ You can out
these. and they won '1 nun‘ you.
Mike thatln a food."

COOL SPRING
‘’ .

‘HT: .7 In it/'7i7l'

 

Bmsouth Main Street, Lexington VA {5dU)4b3»650o
(Next to the Rookbrldge Partner's Coop)

Our food tastes good l)€rL2il.l6£‘» it is good.

 

Let Us Cater Your Next Fraternity Party Or Tailgate

On Our Premises Or At The

Location Of Your Choice

With A Customized Menu To Fit Your Budget!

Call Us For Our 5 Foot Italian Sub!!!
Available In Vegetarian O.r Meat
With Your Choice Of Ingredients:
Fresh Mozzerella
Provolone
Cheddar Cheese
Prosciutto
Capicolla
Soppressata
Salami
Ham
Mortadella
Turkey
Grilled Zucchini
_ Roasted Red Peppers
Marinated Mushrooms
Marinated Artichoke
Red Onion
Lettuce Tomato
Our Own Pesto Spread or Mayo
‘One Week Notice is Needed For All Sub Orders

Dinner Entrees for Small. and Large Groups:
Veggi Lasagna
Half Tray (serves 8-10) $29.95
Full Tray (serves 18-20) $55.95
Baked Ziti
Half Tray (serves 8-10) $25.95
Full Tray (serves 18-20) $45.95
Eggplant Parrnigiana
Half Tray (serves 8-10) $29.95
Full Tray (serves 18-20) $55.95
Sausage Pepper
Half Tray (Serves 8-10) $31.95
Full Tray (serves 18-20) $59.95
Salad
Half Tray (serves 8-10) $14.95
Full Tray (serves 18-20) $27.95
Penne Vodka

Half Tray (serves 8-10) $25.95
Full Tray (Serves 18-20) $45.95

Serving Sunday Brunch Buffet From 11:30-2:30 All You Can Eat: $9.95
Call us at 540-464-5500
Banquet Facilities On Premises Up To 200 People

«E

H

 

lUr.sD.\Y. Sr.Irri:MBER 3. 2002  PAGE 7

  

 

  

 
  

      



      b 9 Why just look at this blank box when you could put an ad here?

;; olt:nI.santIers.lPreseruetl with 11 Wanna 8 fClITl0U3.

5? S eeial |lBl'IlS ﬂllll S iG8S.] ' - - - -

[.32 ” ”  Wr/fe for fhe PHI! Fraternities O sururmes

 0 tllults 0 stutlentttroulls

ll _ E A V V X 4  _ Earn $ 1 ,0O0—$2,00() this semester with a proven CampusFundraiser

4 V 3 hour fundraising event. Our programs make fundraising easy
with no risks. Fundraising dates are filling quickly, so get with
the program! It works. Contact CampusFundraiser at (888) 923-

E g _ 3238, or visit www.camousfundraiser.com

* WE CAN DO IT- 8  WELCOME BACK STUDENTS!

, L ' ,V 2
Repairs ~ Contacts °‘§2%§‘223-?c,9T”° B531 or LucK Fan THE FALL SEAsolv!
Take a break from the b00ks_I Come by and see Skip, Marla, Connie and Wilson.
C l th ‘ ’ .dligh'. ‘C’ 1' ’.'B k .E'
 L F  M ! fine It:lIina:(:(I:f?e:r: wi:l1M}lIr<:1tFrul£2c1)\lI1<:rit‘:e bre:k2l’tastd;:sl?;. ;3I‘l:'1ige;f)UI‘r‘cllJI:)[:,6:)lll1t: S K I P T H O M  0 N 
- f l h.O . :,.al'd. d. d ' h * al . d f  d
HOT L ENSES! :-’l"o:l]2fble. v"v2Z".‘é§Ee :>e:utif?1[ll .521; yiii.
saunas»               BARBER SHOP
. A 22 S. Main Street 9 Lexington, VA
‘L f   © W   Open Mon., Tues., Thurs., & Fri. 8 a.m. - 5 p.m.
20 years serving Rockbridge Sat. 8 am. - noon; Closed Wed. & Sun.
at 203 N. Main Street, Lexington 540463-5954
LE 463-7440

llllll runlllls.-‘l

slteml all lluur summer munell on Ill!0l$.
tuiliun a mat realm euul new stereo? 

Lexfngconis‘ Feel Goodstorer

Glow Stars, Posters, Incense,
Candles,%Scenl:s & Inspiration

  

  

 

   
 
     
        

 
 

  
  
  

   We llaue immediate oueninus starting   B°"g'e",B°°ds °'B°"t.":3
 at $9.25 ltase-auuuinunent.     CW’ 5’°“*.‘°”a’Y& 5*“ 6” RESTAURANT
ilexillle hours aruunll elass. ““8°’“~ Fm“ 3‘ “W” B“ 8‘ GRILL
- Toss. "revs Wars Welcome Back Students
  35 North Main Street
  inreustumer.seruieelsales..       CaS$¢*fsa..F”’$;.3°9‘e.5?C3‘¢”43.e.  minmn’VA 24450.
lltltelemarlletinu, llll.tluur-to-lluur.  LearntoPlay Again <54°>46+1887
  25 MS!’ seltularsllills awanletl.   at so nda¥’s Child!

  

      eonultnms aunlv.    
t:all540-562-5000 uelure nusitions lilll 
  ‘V Anlllll in lluanolle, want in Lexington.  

Q14 W. Washington St. ® Lexington ®
7 ' © 463-—‘lSUN C1786) @
® Opcrt10—6 Mon.—Sat. and 12-4 Sun-. ®
BdngtI§sAdinfora20%dlwoumoﬂ‘of anymeszeamucama.

     
 

  

 

Salerno Restaurant

.1 1 1 5 South Jefferson Street
Lexington, VA
 540-463-5757

Ask About
Our Variety
Of Great Tasting
ltalian Dinners!

‘,5 run CARDS - APR¥E_ CORNELL CLOTHING - PURSES

   

ALL YOU CANEAT
. Spaghetti w/ Garlic Bread 
 Monday 5pm -  --.$ 3.00

   Large CheesePizzae$4.95
 WELCOME FRESHMEN
WELCOME BACK UPPERCLASSMEN

_,f_. , W J

E5

   

l2l W. Ne! Street
Lexington. 24450

540.464.5002
www.shoppumpkinseeds.com

0 Sc.-IVOS 0 SZDUBWSOD WOOT8 ' AQV/9 30:1 SGNH EIFICDINO C3

MITTENS ' STATIONERY * HOME ACCENTS

LQ9 ECLECTK3 JEWELRY - CANDLES « ems GALORE - FRAMES
‘ébsuvn

.4.‘

. . _‘_ .

 , ..\.K  ./Q 1:.

 

‘n...; l\ m',.u£.'\;».'-.... .L

THE RI’\(.}~T'I.. xx Pm mWm..  
PAGE 8 . TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 3, 200235

WORK FOR THE PHI! 1

       

   

EDITORIALS <1) FEATURE WRITING <I> GRAPHICS (I1 HISTORY  INTERVIEW (I) KNOW EVERYONE <I> LAYOUT (1) NEWS A

D

f WANT TO WRITE? Or take pictures? Or layout
pages? Or eopy—edit? Learn as you work, develop
new talents, apply for ealitor—traek positions.

I

V

g DON’T PUT IT OFF! Get your foot in the door and    
gain valuable experience for your resume, plus
enjoyment of a unique working environment.

X

5

5:00 pm every Monday

 

31Washingt0n Street

   

questions: phi @wlu.edu

 
 

X

“i
J

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

NG-TUM

P H1 

The student rain of Wot/iington and Lit’ Uniuriin since 7897 (13 On/ine oi: ,Dhi'.zt//n.eziii

- VoLUIIIECV,N0.V1
MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 9, 2002

Speculation of police keg crackdown unproven

BY ANDREW LATIMER
NEWS EDITOR

Worries that area law enforce-
ment had in recent weeks begun a
stricter anti-underage drinking policy
have proven unfounded, The Ring-
rum Phi has learned.

Rumors arose last week that pp-
lice cruisers were seen writing down

license plates and taking pictures of
cars parked outside of parties just out-
side of Lexington city limits. Some
speculated that the efforts were to
track purchasers of kegs in order to
determine if alcoholic beverages were
knowingly served to minors.

Virginia customers who buy kegs
of beer from licensed establishments
must sign a contract that indicates where

the alcohol will be transported, as well
as residency infomiation, signature and
vehicle license number of the buyer.
The punishment for serving the
keg’s contents to underage drinkers,
while still a misdemeanor, carries heftier
ﬁnes than the average minor in posses-
sion or drunken in public charges. The
use of kegs at parties on campus prop-

Lexington Police Chief Bruce
Beard, Dean of Students David
Howison, Assoc. Dean of Students
Buddy Atkins and the Rockbridge
Sheriff’s Oﬂice all disregarded any
plans of a concerted plan to track
where kegs go and how they are used.
“We just don’t have the manpower,”
said Dep. Eddie Funkhouser of
Rockbridge County.

“I don’t think we’d go into that
depth until there were recurring prob-
lems in a particular spot,” he contin-
ued. He then added that the presence
high school drinkers would draw more
attention. Regarding college students,
“we’re not parenting them.”

According to the Virginia Attor-
ney General’s Task Force on Drinking
by College Students, then-Attomey

General Mark Earley recommended
that the ABC Board “automate the
registration of kegs in a manner that
would allow real time access by au-
thorized agencies” and work to re-
solve issues with overlapping juris-
dictions, making the possibility of
tracking kegs a real one.

See KI-10$, page 2

erty has been prohibited since the ’80s.

Commons
‘On track

BY KATIE HOWELL
EDITOR IN CHIEF

‘BY THE POWERS INVESTED IN ME’

President
restructures  

administration

FROM STAFF REPORTS

Students should continue to expect

detours and construction noise on cam-
K pus this semester as contractors continue
work on the new University Commons.

“(The construction) is progress-

ing very well,” said Scott Beebe, di-
rector of Washington and Lee
University’s Physical Plant. “We ex-
pect to up ﬁt the Commons over the
summer and anticipate using it in the
fall of next year.”
' Construction on the University
Commons phase of a $43 million build-
ing complex began in the spring of
2001. The other two phases of the
project were renovations to Reid Hall
and Doremus Gymnasium also begun
in 2001. Beebe said the renovations
were complete this summer.

“We don’t anticipate any more
construction on Doremus,” Beebe
said. “We should be ﬁnished with that
portion of the project.”

As construction continues on
the Commons, Beebe said pedestrian
and trafﬁc detours, as well as noises _,,, ,,
Wiii reniain Present on Campus PRESERVING TRADITION, ACCEPTING CHANGE. Thomas G. Burish

“in terms ofineoiwenieneea there (inset) officially began his term as Washington and Lee University’s
Worm be any more Peeking on the 24th president while celebrating the efforts of the Class of 2003
rocks» just the norinai noise of Con’ during Wednesday’s Fall Convocation and Inauguration ceremonies.
striietion this Winters” Beebe said Following the convocation address from the Chancellor Emeritus

Beebe said Contractors h-"We ﬁn‘ of Vanderbilt University, Joesph P. Wyatt, Burish noted the day’s
iished digging 3 hoie Where 3 deiiVerY unique confluence of students, faculty, alumni, trustees and alumni.

nninei Wiii enter beiowthe southeast side He then spelled out his intentions to “continue the trajectory of this
. of the building. He said once a roof is

put on the tunnel, pedestrian detours will ‘

"°”’°“‘°““°”‘“‘°G”‘“‘“'”““°““ Organization to mediate harassment, discrimination

“There is no set schedule yet, but
it should be ﬁnished in a couple of '
QAIFtpromIses to lend a I hognjggg
listening ear to students in need

. months,” Beebe said.
Construction will continue on the

for communicating the new program to the uni-

versity,” said Jan Kauﬁnan, director of

MATTHEW MCDERMOTT
EDITOR IN CIIIEE

University President Tom Burish has reorganized the
top tiers of W&L administration, bringing them in line with
his new vision of Washington and Lee’s priorities.

The most important change was the selection of 
former Acting President Larry Boetsch as the university’s
ﬁrst provost.

“This position was actually be-
ing considered during (former Presi-
dent John Elrod’s) administration,”
Boetsch said. “Nationally, the role of
the president has been changing, re-
quiring more time spent away from
campus.”

As the univeristy’s chief academic
ofﬁce, the Provost limits the number
of people directly reporting to the
president. The deans of all undergradu-
ate and graduate colleges, the deans of students and ad-
missions, and the university librarian, among others, report
to him.

Burish said that he does not yet know what
amount of time on campus his duties, which include
“an especially aggressive travel schedule to pro-
mote the successful completion of the ($225 million
capital) campaign” will allow him.

The position, however, is not intended as a presiden-
tial buffer, Boetch said. “Everyone who needs to will have
access to the president.”

“(The deans) have regular meetings with (Burish), at

BOETSCH

wonderful institution” by achieving a careful balance of change and
tradition. Among the initiatives he discussed, themes of
internationalization, technology, commitment to the liberal arts and
inclusiveness ﬁgured prominently. According to The Rirhmorzd Timer-
Dirpatth, the ceremony, which began at 5:30 on the front lawn, was
attended by roughly 2,000 students, faculty and guests. Also on
hand was interim president, Laurent Boetsch ’69, who will serve as
university provost.—ANDRE\v LATIMER/News Editor

See ADMINISTRATION, page 2

stop for students complaining of sexual mis-
conduct or of any violation of the
University’s anti-discrimination policy.

“Students can talk to CAIR Re-
sources about any discrimination or ha-
rassment, for age, disability, sexual orien-
tation, national origin, religion, andsoon,”
said University Attorney Leanne Shank

CAIR resources can also ad-
vise students who have complaints
about faculty or staff.

Shank advised the committee,
headed by Dean Jeanine Stewart,
that examined the school’s anti-dis-
crimination and sexual misconduct policy.

“Some anonymous student surveys re-
vealed that sexual misconduct was Occurring,
but complainants were not coming forward,”
Shanks said. “There were not enough people
on front end.”

To address these issues, a publicity cam-
paign was launched.

Water shortage spurs restrictions

Washington and Lee abides by Gov. Mark Warner’s statewide conservation ordinance

tion for the SF HB, as go-betweens between com-
plainants and they people being complained
about. We are there to listen to both sides.”

Last academic year, a list ofpotential CAIR
Resources was drawn up, from which informally
polled donn counselors, resident advisors, and
other student leaders chose.

“We didn’t nominate ourselves,” Nichols said.

“We made sure to have the members a cross
section of different divisions’faculty and staff, dif-
ferent genders, different races,” Shank said.

In June, Acting President Larry Boetch
asked them individually to serve.

Boetsch “explained to me why we all
need to make this system work,” said
Murchinson. “He made a persuasive case.”

“We hoped to get six,” said Shank, who
was pleased that ten ultimately accepted.

CAIR resources attended a meeting with
the SFHB, Boetsch and other involved

building throughout the colder

months. “The winter shouldn’t affect

us at all,” he said. “It’s built in solid health promotion.

rock, sorainswon’taffectit, andwe’ll The publicity group de-
signed posters for displaying
CAIR Resources’ faces, informa-

have temporary heat as soon as the
tion sheets for distribution dur-

walls are up.”
Truck activity will soon increase
I on East Denny Circle near the Woods ing matriculation, tear-off sheets
for bathrooms and brochures. All
items will be displayed Monday.

Creek Apartments.
“The construction and deliveries
A CAIR webpage was also cre-
ated, which says that Resources ex-

will need access to the back of the build-

ing and that area,” Beebe said. “We’re
just anticipating increased traffic.” plain the student’s options for informal or for-
The administration still has not mal resolution of their complaints. This can
range from mediating a discussion or apology
to initiating a Student-Faculty Hearing Board

plarmed the University Commons’ inte-

rior. Students should expect dining facili-
hearing or ﬁling charges with local law enforce-
ment. '

ties, student activity offices and lounges.
“We are not advocates,” Nichols said.

The Ring-tum Phi will present
“We serve as people providing infonnal media-

Ten members of the faculty, staff and ad-
ministration are the well-publicized front line of
the new University initiative to resolve discrimi-
nation and harassment cases.

Dubbed Conﬁdential And Impartial Reso-
lution Resources, they are History Secretary
Jennifer Ashworth, Religion Professor Harlan
Beckley, Law Professors Beth Belmont and
Brian Murchison, Director of Leadership De-
velopment Burr Datz, Biology Instructor Teresa
Hanlon, Sociology Professor David Novack,
Associate Dean of Students Courtney Penn,
Admissions Ofﬁcer Dee Richardson, and Ser-
vice Learning Coordinator Kelly Nichols.

These CAIR Resources are now the ﬁrst

NICHOLS
A

an in—depth report on the future of
the Commons in next weeks issue.

See CAIR, page 2

SIGNING UP

PHOTO EYJER BROOI<S/ The Rin,igunmiPbi
PULLING THEIR WEIGHT. Freshmen faces are cropping up in student organization ofﬁces all
over campus, including at the Cahix with senior Katie Frusti (center). Turn-out at the Activities
Fair on Wednesday was high, in part due to its relocation to the freshman-friendly BDG quad.

KATIE HOWELL
EDITOR IN CHIEF

Record water shortages forced Lexing-
ton City Council to approve a local version
of Virginia governor Mark Warner’s Execu-
tive Order 33 Thursday night.

The Executive Orderhas no penalties, but en-
courages local govemments to enforce water con-
servation eﬂrorts throughout affected drought ar-
eas, including Lexington and Rockbridge County.

“We are going to act as employees to
follow the govemor’s guidelines,” Lexington
City Manager Jon Ellestad said.

Warner issued the order August 30 request-
ing local governments throughout most of the

. state to institute water conservation efforts in their

jurisdictions to combat what he called “one of the
most severe droughts in the past 100 years.”
The Executive Order restricts water us-
age by all private citizens and some busi-
nesses. Among the restrictions are no lawn
watering, car washing, golf course watering,

except tees and greens between the hours of
8 p.m. and 8 am. and ﬁlling swimming pools,
except for personal health and safety reasons.
The Executive Order does not restrict com-
mercial car washes or watering athletic ﬁelds
and newly sodded or damaged grass.

“W&L is abiding by the new water
usage restrictions,” Physical Plant Direc-
tor Scott Beebe said.

Beebe said Washington and Lee University
will continue watering its athletic ﬁelds and newly
sodded grass around the construction sites.

“We can’t wash our trucks, and they
need it,” he said. “We also can’t water the
grass around Reid Hall anymore, because the
30-day limit is up.”

The govemor’s restrictions place a 30-
day limit on watering newly sodded grass.

“We want to comply with the govemor,”
Beebe said. “We just don’t know what to do.”

Now that Lexington has approved enforc-
ing the Executive Order, citizens will soon have
more information about handling the drought.

“We’ll be writing letters to all the .citi-
zens, asking them to comply with the restric-
tions,” Ellestad said.

He said the drought restrictions should not
greatly alfect Washington and Lee or its students.

“We don’t think most students wash
their cars at their dorms or apartments, and
the institutions can still water their athletic
ﬁelds,” Ellestad said.

While the drought now causes mild in-
conveniences, Ellestad said, more severe re-
strictions may become necessary in the future.

“This is probably going to get worse be-
fore better,” he said. “Right now the restric-
tions are pretty minimal, but in the future they
may become more strict.’’'

Drought conditions in Virginia are likely
to get worse over the next 90 days, according
to the National Weather Service. Lack of rain
will place greater strain on the already limited
water sources and public water supplies.

“We’re just going to keep trying to fol-
low the govemor’s guidelines,” Ellestad said.

  

 

PAGn 2

Registrar unveils new late drop/ add fees

BY MATTHEW MCDERMOTT
Enrroii IN Clllllt’

Deciding against volunteer work and
late Web Registration times, the Faculty
Executive Committee will encourage con-
scientious registration though increasing
financial penalities.

Introduced this term, schedule
changes will cost $25 after the term’s
first week and before its fourth.

The penalty doubles for changes from
the fourth week until the exam period.

The cost doubles again, to $100, for
changes after the term ’s exams.

“The issue wasn’t really fees, the is-
sue was the work load. and attendant costs
of late drop adds,” University Registrar
Scott Dittman said. Despite daily lntemet
updates, “in recent academic terms, we

have noticed a pattern among students to
assume what they are registered for, rather
than taking personal responsibility and
checking.”

A subcommittee of the Faculty EC
determined the cost of processing a late
drop/add or pass/fail was over $100 per
transaction.

This amount proved consequen-
tial. ln Winter Term l.ast year, 551 of
the 3638 drop/add and pass/fail re-
quests, or 15 percent, were late. Of
those, .136 were in the term‘s fourth
and fifth week. Twelve more were
processed between early January and
mid—March.

“Additional requests for late changes
to winter and earlier terms continued to
ﬂow in through the end of the academic
year,” Dittman said.

The situation also created more work
for the Faculty EC, which is charged with
making exceptions to administrative dead-
lines, such as drop/add, pass/fail, degree
application, and major declarations.

“Most petitions come to us because
students did not take care of drop/add dur-
ing the proper time period,” said committee
member Ted DeLaney, history professor.

These late changes usually result from
carelessness, Dittman explained.

It is “not so much a change ofmind
but a change of record,” he said. “For
example, ‘Oops I forgot that l was reg-
istered for history and was really at-
tending anthropology and didn’t real-
ize it until 1 get that F on my grade
report. ”’

Faculty members are not likely to sym-
pathize with student protest.

‘‘I am stunned by the inability of
some students. . .to understand how,
when, and where to register for, or
alter, their courses each semester,” said
Art Professor George Bent. “These
people are old enough to drive automo-
biles, old enough to vote for elected
officials who make important decisions,
and old enough to serve in the most
technologically advanced military in
human history.

“Why is it that they cannot obtain a
piece of paper, read it, get two signatures,
and turn it in to the appropriate office on
time?”

“The way some students handle
the drop/add responsibility is poor at
best,” agreed DeLaney.” Doing things
on time, or paying a late penalty, is part
of life.”

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 9, 2002’
Keg-scouting .
rumors found false

I<r.(;;s_, from page 1

"Virginia State Police, who could not be contacted
before this issue went to press, have jurisdiction in
Rockbridge County, but it had been Dep. Funkhouser’s I
experience that forays into the county were rare and
usually coordinated with local forces, stating “I can’t
imagine they would be doing it.”

Even so. the contract has signifigance. If a partygoer
were to die following excessive consumption of alcohol, the A
purchaser of the keg would be tracked down through his or
her ABC contract and prosecuted.

Dep. Funkhouser, an officer of Rockbridge County
since 1974, has never encountered such a case while on R
duty, but in 2001 at the Univeristy of Minnesota the rugby
team which furnished a keg was implicated in the acci;
dental drowning death of 19-year-old Ken Christiansen.

Know your Traveller stops

' tiéaszm i

 
 

Washnazgten 51 Lee

University 
an . ..
  r

  

    

 

 
 
  
   

 
 

F‘

X‘ ‘A

  
  

1

we-2
am. 39 to tttrglnta I-lone Comm’

810%
W {#363

i.\l.»\[’(II()tIl{il;\'ii or Di-L\?\’ Hmtisr l?\",l’i-l(.ill.)llll...\’l‘R i‘ll<)=.\’1'h' ;-\x=r)rti-.\r'liiiriin-it/'il7rRz}gi;r:mPlii 3

BY ANDREW Lmusit V
;’\’=i'~:\i=*s EDITOR

Washington and Lee University’s revamped
sober driving system, Traveller, will undergo its first
full week of operations starting today, marking the
second term the service has been in operation.

The program, developed. by Generals Advocating
Sober Driving (GASD) as a replacement for Live Drive,
will run seven days aweek from 10 p.m. until 2 am., two
hours shorter than the spring term schedule. Live Drive
transported students three days per week.

Also changed is the pool of drivers, which will
primarily consist of athletic staff members driving

school-owned vans. Students will still be employed,
but on a lesser scale. Additionally, a new and ex-
panded route map that will reach 75 percent of tini-
versity students was introduced for the fall.

Dean of Students David Howison, an integral
player in the launch of Traveller last spring, stated that
lessons were learned from last spring. and the scope of
the system will become more focused with each pass-
ing month. The one constant will be emphasis on the
theme of taking individual responsibility.

Effective today, Dan Gratton ’97 will head up Trav-
eller and coordinate its efforts. As a former student, he
will use his knowledge of Lexington and its environs
to the program ’s advantage, as Howison pointed out.

To determine whether or not the design is a 
members of Traveller must analyze usage numbers, the
attitude of those who use the vans, and the efﬁciency of
the dispatchers and volunteer student system.

According to Howison, there are numerous
protocols in place, regarding everything from
what to do if a passenger falls ill to whom to call
if local police pull a program driver over. If an
accident occurs, drivers are supposed to be cov-
ered by the university’s comprehensive liability
insurance policy. ,

The school hasn’t gauged community reac-
tion to Traveller, but l-lowison relayed that Lexing-
ton Police Chief Bruce Beard approved of the plan.

Traveller Station Key, as of September 2002

1. Parking Garage Level 4 (Top)
2. Baker-Davis-Gilliam Quad

3. international House (Deli
Center) on Lee Avenue

4. Grace Presbyterian Church
on Main Street

5. Lee Chapel Parking Lot

6. Davidson Park

7.Corner of Lexington/Jefferson

Florist

8. Windfall/Winding Way on
Green House Road r
9. Pole Houses on Furrs Mill
Road

10. Woods Creek Apartments

11. Law School Parking Let

U

CAIR: about discrimination

“The CAIR Resources did

 

C/till, from page 1

university administrators.

“We’ve just started,” Nichols
said. CAIR resources will soon
spend a full day in mediation train-
ing. There are plans for regular
meetings in the months ahead.

Among the topics discussed are
available counseling and health care
and how to work the pre-existing Des,-
ignated Officers for harassment and
discrimination.

receive some legal orientation,
but for the most part we re-
ceived information about the
process itself and the role we
are expected to play,"
Murchison said.

For further information,
consult the University Policy
on Prohibited Discrimination at

http://campuslife.w1u.edu/ .

freshmen, or call the CAIR. lnfo
Line at 540-458-5800.

Al)Mli\£ lS’l'.R.»\"I"lO.N, from page 1

least once a month,” said Dean of Stu-
dents David Howison. “l have found
that (Burish) is always willing to talk
to me about important issues.”

University Counsel Leanne
Shank, Secretary to the Board of
Trustees Jim Farrar and Director of
Athletics Michael Walsh still report
directly to the president.

One of the provost’s new powers
is his role i.n advising the president on

— SKYDIV 3]

DOUBLE STUDENT DISCOUNT-

Tako $30 offtho regular ﬂrotjump
price with this ad until May 2003!

Complete information is on: WW. 5 k

Easy one Day First Jumps! Freefali almost a minute from over '2»-112 Miles High!

  

1 (877) 348-3759

ydiveorange.com

(540) 943-8587 or

(877) DIVE-SKY

- Best Aircraft

Others claim to use it, but we use the official USPA training program to the fullest since it was
developed hero at Skydive Orange for the United States Parachute Association.

- our equipment-

Comparo our equipment to other Drop Zono'o- our parachutes are 100% equipped with state of the art
CYPRES Automatic Activation back up devices, others use cheaper ones to save money.

- We have the experience! -

No other Virginia Drop Zone routinely puts up over 300 jumps most Saturdays, sometimes over 400
lumps in day. We are doing over 17,000 Jumps iyoar hora at Virginia's skydiving cantor, Skydive Orange.

Fastest growing skydiving center on the East coast because:

our Twin Engine Turbine Aircraft safely carries 22 Jumpers over 13,000’
- Most complete Instructional program-

academie budgets. Boetsch will review
the annual requests of the College. the
Commerce School and the Law School,
and will recommend priorities.

“The role of the provost is to see
university-wide needs that individual
departments, quite rightly, do not fo-
cus on,” Burish said. “(Boetsch) has
unparalleled experience at all levels of
the school’s administration.”

Other new positions include
the vice president for administra-
tion. a position currently without a

Administration adds provost

permanent occupant, will direct
nonacademic matters, such as the
physical plant and university book-
store. The dean of the college will
no longer oversee university sup-
port services.

The directorship of institu-
tional research, which Registrar
Scott Dittman has assumed, is
similarly new. its responsibility
is the compilation of statistics for
the analysis of administrative
functions.

L If-.\’.l.\l (}'.l'()I\'

5./a urr.u’.u_1r/ ( >'nn§/mv/fry

FRESH EACH MORNING

lilllclt out ‘
Jnnlllmtsrinln

Great photos from all over the ‘l
World, even Lexington, VA.

We’ll takepcornmissions.

All"di§iEal production. "

Museutrrquality prints. ' 6

WWW.JEBBFlOOKS.COM 540-458-5183

ESPRESSO ' CAPPUCCINO ' FRESH ROASTED COFFEES * FINE TEAS

9 WEST WASHINGTON STREET It LEXINGTON * 464-6586 .

J. 3: 1...‘, .¢i=.s’:=~..~'..'v lama .. 1 

r..a'.- u;=;.;¢s‘s.'.2s~;vi;a‘:i..;s.éiltetsei s..~;..':<ii.i‘~ai'u'.  z.~;.a..r.;.».%<ar-»>-tear" '

 

 

’ MONDAY, srmnmai 9,2002

« Sgl§hml3l3ii)liDITORlAL

Sober the press releases
1 on the Washington and Lee Web page

New president Thomas Burish faces many
complex challenges, so he must welcome the oc-
casional quick ﬁx. For the problem of our Internet

V “news releases,” the Phi offers a simple solution:
ﬁnd a new writer.
The outside world can no longer ﬁnd press
releases on our web page, such as Mar. l’s ﬁne
.Il

“W&L Dean of Student announces retirement.”
Rather, it discovers throaty little dispatches that
sound like Lifetime miniseries (“W&L Surmner
Side: No Calm Before Fall’s Storm”).

l‘ The prose style is no better. Consider the
release “President Burish: Man of Action with
Scientist’s Approach,” in which we are treated
to: “Rushing to an appointment, Tom Burish paused
! at a student-led tour of Washington and Lee. The
visibly curious guide fell silent. Sweaty tourists
gaped.”

“Sweaty tourists gaped.” This tawdry little
at tableaux sounds like a junior high feature story,
not a press release from a nationally renowned
university. If this new narrative style is an at-
tempt to add color, it has succeeded. But at what
;. cost—lurid paint is not better than just the facts,
ma’am.

Further problems arise when the overeager
prose leads to careless writing. In the same piece
, we read about “relentless days.” There can be a
relentless series of days, or days with a relentless
series of events. Sober, factual prose, however,
avoids sloppy personalization.

It also avoids cute phrases like Burish’s “first

presidency.”
This is not to deny that the news releases con-
tain interesting material. In the aforementioned
‘ “lVIan of Action” piece, a nice bit is found on the

president’s assessment of hiring faculty. But items
like this are tadpoles in a whale, and few are willing
to cut through the blubber to ﬁnd them.

And let’s not overstate the case. The works
‘‘ are not lurid, merely lame. They are not malicious,
merely inept. But press releases from W&L should
not be oﬂ°—putting, and these are. Case in point is
the stream of ham ﬁsted presidential encomium.
it We read: “Burish isn’t deterred in facing tough is-
sues at an institution that sometimes has been slow
in addressing them” and “Burish is not a man for
rhetoric but action.” Let us not forget, however,
g that “neither is he irnpetuous . . 

Burish is widely known for his modesty, and
for his desire to improve the school’s image. Both
qualities will be evident if he can ﬁnd a more ca-

x
UOTE OF THE WEEK:
A
I WOULD REALLY REALLY LIKE TO
HAVE A MAO TsE DONG WATCH
3‘

. . .1 THINK IT IS THE COOLEST

THING IN THE \X/ORLD.l
:ANONYMOUS PHOTO EDITOR, .\PPI.YlN(} ’l'() ;\\I
ﬂ EXILED FORMER OPINIONS EDITOR

Editors in chief Katie J. Howell
Matthew B. McDermott
AndrewA. Latimer
Irnran Naeemullah
Catherine C. Guy
Jeremy Franklin

Dave Crowell

 

News Editor
Opinions Editor
Arts & Life Editor
Sports Editor
Asst. Sports Editor
Photo Editor Jeb Brooks
Photographers Meg Ferrara
gt. MaryGuy
Business Manager Paul Seifert
Asst. Business Manager Thomas Worthy
Circulation Director HenryGrimball

J‘...

F The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee Univer-
sity, Lexington, Virginia. The Washington and Lee Publi-
cations Board elects the Editors in chief, but The Ring-
tum Phi is otherwise independent.

F The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible submis-
sions and letters. All submissions must be e-mailed to
phi@wlu.edu or in the University Center mailbox by 5
p.m. Friday to appear in the following week’s edition. The
Ring-tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for con-
’ tent and length. Letters and columns do not necessarily
reﬂect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Ad-
vertising does not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi
or its staff. This newspaper observes current court deﬁni-
tions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Mailing Address: University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington. Virginia 24450
Street Address: 3} Washington Street
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Fax: (540) 462-4059
Email: phz'@wlu.edu
http://phi. w1u.edu

Annual Subscription Rate: $30

ter.: .ihr<<;-uiri PHI.

PINIONS - A

Iraq is ‘cruising for a bruising’

The United States has no choice
but to attack Iraq and remove Saddam
Hussein from power, while at the same
time destroying his country’s nuclear,
biological, and chemical capabilities. De-
spite the ever present whines of the
doves, such as “we have no evidence
Saddam was involved in 9/ l 1,’ ‘The Eu-
ropeans don’t approve’, ‘He hasn’t done
anything to us recently’, or, my personal
favorite, ‘He’ll use chemical weapons
and kills thousands of US troops,’ we
must invade.

First oﬂ°, Abu Nidal, the infamous Pal-
estinian terrorist found shot four times in
Baghdad, and declared dead by his own
hand by Hussein’s police, was killed be-
cause he refused to train al Qaeda mem-
bers in the terrorist camps in Iraq’s deserts.
Iraqi agents met with one or more of the 9/

l l hijackers. While both these facts tend
to suggest that Hussein was at least aware
of the planned attacks on the World Trade
Center, they are irrelevant to the argument
over whether to invade

  

  

IIVIRANNAEEMUIIAH
OPINIONS Eonorr
E\IAll:NAEElvlUIIAllI@WlllEDIl

ject are akin toNeville Chamberlain, war1t-
ingpeace atthecostof

Iraq. V  _, A   appeasing a dictator.

Second, the Euro- BEMUSED BYSTANDER Appeasement is
peans have emasculated " ‘ equivalentto surrender,
their armed forces to the   so let’s leam ﬁom 1939
point that they are no and attackﬁrst.

longer players on the military stage, while
at the same time clouding the issue of haq
with their rampant anti-Sernitism and sym-
pathy for the plight of the Palestinians,
mean while banlqolling the conupt, tenor-
ist-ridden PalestinianAuthority. Whocares
what they think? Tony Blair will be withus,
and let’s face it, this will be an American
SllOW anyhow.

Also, Saddam lIusseinhasmostdeﬁ-
nitely been workingtoacquirerIuclearweap-
ons, according to highly placed defectors,
and in tact may have a few small devices
now. What more reason do we need to
attack‘? Those who prevaricate on the sub-

Finally, we know he has chemical
weapons, and since we’llbe comingto get
him personally this time, not just ldclcing
him out ofKuwait, he has no reason notto
deploy them. On a technical level, how-
ever, his devices for delivering these weap-
onsare lirnitedto afewrockets andartillery
shells. Wewill lose mento chemical weap-
ons, but the salient question is: do we
want to lose thousands on the battle ﬁeld
to eliminate the threat, or tens of thousands
when Hussein’s terrorist errand boys light
off a low yield nuke in two orthree cities, or
nerve gas in crowded urban areas?

The answer to the problem is the in-

 

PI>lO'lOCOUKlBYOF WWW.6DOG_ECQM
PREPARED FOR WAR. U.S. ﬁghters on deck, ready to attack when called upon.

vasion of Iraq and the deposition of
Saddam Hussein Or, we could just wait
until the next, catastrophic attack on inno-
cent Americans and wonder why no one
acted to prevent it
Luclcilyforus,eventhosewhoarededi-
cateddeniersofreality(l1keliberals),theBush
Administratior1ag,reeswithme,andwewi1l
be attacking. We’ve already rented the

iﬁeighterstobringourheavya1moredve-

hicles into the region, and Secretary Powell
has already begun the diplomatic oifmsive
sothatwe canclairnwe hadno choioebutto
attack Iraq for non-cornpliarrce with the
points of the original UN resolutions. The
mair1reasonwehaven’talreadyinvadedis
ﬂratlraqismostiyhotdesemwhichrmkes it
hardontroops inchemical protection suits.
We’re waiting forthe winter so our soldiers
won’t pass out in their suits.

Ihope Saddamenjoyshislastfallas
dictator of Iraq.

Let’s give peace chance in Iraq

It’s that time again, folks. As the current Presidential
administration pushes for yet another conﬂict with Iraq, the
time has come to consider the merits of the argument for war.

The primary reason President Bush gives us for an inva-
sion is to depose Saddam Hussein, whom Bush believes
“desires weapons of mass destruction,” has “poisoned his

’ ovm people,” “hates freedom,” and has otherwise become

someone whom the President would not invite to the White
House even if he was a major campaign donor.

Though the administration lacks much solid evidence
that Iraq possesses or is developing nuclear,
biological, or chemical weapons#when __
told that Iraq had denied developing such 3. _
weapons, Secretary of Defense Donald . A
Rumsfeld responded simply: ‘“They’re ly- ~
ing- -—I do not ﬁnd it at all difﬁcult to believe, proof or not, that
Hussein is, in fact, attempting to develop these sorts of weap-
ons. President Bush has a reasonable and legitimate concern
in this area, so it seems reasonable to take military actions to
prevent it.

Additionally, Iraq is part of the now-

 
   

’ MtiDEi;li¥s’s‘‘‘Miisin’t;s
  _C;iL.EY_l_lilx\;1??*_RS9N;‘Q6

the U.S. just wants cheaper oil from a friendlier Iraq), or for no
reason. If a nation’s government has violated its trust, it is up
to either the people of the country, or the global community,
to change something. While America is a world leader, we are
not authorized to make decisions about Iraq or any other
country on behalf of the world.

Therefore, it is absolutely critical that we en-
sure that we havelthe support of our allies and partners
before embarking on any mission of “righteous anger”
justiﬁed militarism. Note, for example, our campaign in
Afghanistan. World consensus was that
we had every right to conduct military
actions against a government that was
1- oppressive and 2- directly threaten-
ing the lives of American citizens, as well
as the world in general.

When it comes to Iraq, however, the sureties are
not so sure. The evidence is not yet solid enough to
convince many that an invasion is justiﬁed. Therefore,

what’s required is more ha'rd evi-
dence. Although the government

infamous “Axis of Evil,” countries that
sanction terrorism, proliferate weapons of
mass destruction, and the like. There is
no doubt that there are many potential
Iraqi terrorists, but it’s important to remem-
ber that Iran and Saudi Arabia are also, to
some extent, countries that harbor poten-
tial terrorists and that may or may not ac-
tually fund terrorism. Overall, although
Iraq is populated with many irmocent ci-
vilians, there are enough ‘militant-minded
individuals to conﬁrm the administration
claim that Iraq is a terrorist factory.

The problem is global support. '
Most countries do not support an
American (or potential coalition) in-
vasion of Iraq. For this reason, and
for this reason alone, we should not
attempt an invasion at this time. President Bush al-
ready has a reputation for breaking treaties that have
been signed in previous administrations, and as a re-
sult ofthis, plus over 100 years of general expansion-
ism and our status as a superpower, we have grown to
be resented in many nations that we consider allies,
nations such as Great Britain and France.

Simply put, the trust and cooperation of these allies is
invaluable. We live in an age where major one-nation military
attacks are reprehensible in the global community. We, re-
grettably, as Americans, can not go around invading what-
ever countries we please, whether we claim to be doing so for
just reasons, for unjust reasons (many simply believe that

“Lots of water.”

-A.SHl.El(}H OVERLY ‘06

 

oIo<oLirIisr<)I~ ttwzacow

“Domino’s Piua.”

-LARRY HINOJOSA, Lexingtonian

points to Iraq’s refusal to allow U.N.
weapons inspectors in as evidence,
we should not presume that the glo-
bal equivalent of taking the 5"‘ Amend-
ment should make us presume guilt.
There are other ways of knowing what
a nation is doing without sending in
U.N. inspectors.

What I’d really like to see is the CIA
doing some inside work on Iraq. Ifﬂrey fail
to come back with anything convincing,
then we’re presumably ok Butif they come
back with hard evidence that Iraq is devel-
oping its capability to become a worldwide
menace, then we can present that evidence
to the world as justiﬁcation for another coa-
lition eﬂ°ort.

We cannot aﬂbrd to further alienate
ﬁiendly countries. America does not have, nor should it have,
sovereignty over the world. If we pursued the worst-case
scenario, we’d have the U. S. invading Iraq against world popu-
lar opinion. In that case, it is likely that the U.N. would de-
nounce the U.S. formilitarism and  Thiswouldruin
American diplomacy eﬁbrts in many, many countries, and
would result in hostile relationships with a majority of the
world’s nations.

Clearly, we can’t afford to act simply on our own volition.
While President Bush may have a strong enough case against
Iraq for his cabinet, he’l1 need to come up with a stronger one
in order to convince the American people, as well as the world
in general.

‘I don’t get hungover,
but I hear Midol wor .” -0
-JOHN GAFFNEY ‘06

“Not drinking, except I drink

all the time.”
-KHADY MBAYE ‘05

PAGE 3

‘American Idol’
provides
opportunity to veg

Has Amen'ca really just handed out the title
to a 20-year-old who can cany a tune?

With all the Sex in the City I watched this sum-
mer, I thought that it would be easier to conjure up
something to write about for my inaugural 2002-
2003 school year Phi article. I guess living in New
York with attrac-
tive people and
entertaining
g l a m o r o u s
lifestyles and ca-
reers garners
more fodder than
the trials and
tribulations of the
college senior
who divides her
time equally be-
tween the co-op
and watching
American Idol. (By the way, those percentages are
going to have to be somewhat altered now that my
Tuesday and Wednesday nights will not be devoted
to the ongoing struggle between the self and the
psyche, between Justin and Kelly.)

For anyone who did things other than subscrib-
ing to the media frenzy of yet another quasi-reality
TV show (activi-
ties included,
but not limited
to, making bolo-
gna sandwiches,
playing with
magnetic poetry, or ceramics), American Idol docu-
mented the plights of wanna-be pop stars, each
week voting someone off the island (stage).

Actually, the elimination process was a lot more
complicated than “the tribe has spoken,” punctu-
ated by harsh criticisms from three judges with ques-
tionable backgrounds in the music industry, for ex-
ample, Paula Abdul.

So after about three months of dueling vocal
performances, the ﬁnal two contestants, Kelly and
Justin, became adoles-
cent icons, making ap-
pearances on TRL
(Total Request Live,
of the MTV persua-
sion) and acting as
presenters at the Video
Music Awards (VMA,
similar sounding but,
very different to VMI).

The entire thing
is blatantly ridiculous,.
albeit a painful re-C,
minder of my hypocrisy since I revolved my sched-,.
ule around watching Kelly be all Texas and cute,;
and Justin have eye sex with 15 year old girls, hav-
ing made interesting apparel decisions. I

I don’t know what was more absurd: me and
my roommates’ borderline obsessive devotion to
the show, or the actual premise. The winner (Kelly)
gets a record contract, but I think there should bei
more of an incentive becauseeven contestants whd
didn’t make it into the top 2 have already signed
with labels. Like maybe throw middle square in Hol-3
lywood Squares or Super Nintendo games into the
prize pot. Has America really just handed out the
title “American Idol” to a 20-year-old who can carry
a tune? "

Although admittedly a card-carrying member’
of the Kelly fan club, I find it a little strange that!
she’s singing at the 9/11 Memorial at Lincoln Cen-5
ter. Or that her victory landed a spot on the front’
page of the paper. Could the term ‘American Idol"
perhaps be a little excessive? Granted, the show:
was more addictive than a Real World marathon’
(last MTV reference, I swear), but now I feel like I’
have to watch CNN for like 83 straight hours to
regain a sense of perspective. The whole concept;
of an American Idol is unduly odd. It’s kind of like;
Miss Universe pageants (which I never understood}
because it’s not like there are representatives from“
Pluto or Mercury there, or even Jupiter for that mat-g
ter.) "

That’s a lot of pressure and responsibility to
bestow upon one person. Like whoever wins the
gold in the 100 meter dash in the Olympics and.
gets to be ‘The Fastest Person in the World.’ Now
Kelly is the god of our idolatry. Some weird people‘.
get to rank in America’s catalogue of role mod-
els.

    

t’

Y LARRSON

   

 0lITHERNER’S Expdsiiiiii
Kinsljcgini ‘03

  

 

 

“Tissues.”

-WILL LEWIS ‘06

 

 

  

PAGE 4

 

 

China has long road to freedom

China is a land of opposites. While it has experienced
great liberalization over the past two decades, so much so it
will host the world at the 2008 Olympics, in many ways, things
have hardly changed from the time of Mao’s reign.

When I ﬁrst arrived, the program directress informed
me, much to my chagrin, that National Day, the celebration of
the People’s Republic’s founding held each
October, is no longer marked by military pa-

ity to publicly discuss their beliefs or go to an unofﬁcial
church. The repression reaches much further than the oft-
reported Falun Gong. In fact, there are only ﬁve legal houses
of worship in the nation, one each of the Protestant, Catho-
lic, Buddhist, Muslim and Taoist varieties. All other sects
and beliefs are illegal “cults.”

Moreover, each of these churches has

*‘”"' ‘—‘“‘ I been organized by the Communist Party and
rades and reviews through Tiananmen LIVE FROM CHINA is still administered by the government. All
Square, but I may notice that the parks have BRET1"  KIRWAN ‘O4 churches and temples are registered with the

been decorated. “What good is a commu-

nist country if one car1’t see the mobile missile platfomrs roll
down Main Street?” I asked. “China hasn’t been communist
for a long time,” she responded.

She was only half right. The economy is now largely
free from its communist past
and shops, stalls, markets, and
stores openly competing for
my business crowd the tree-
lined avenues. Freedom has
come to marketplace so much
that you can drink Pabst Blue
Ribbon and dance to the
techno remix of Country Roads
at the J] Disco. Downtown,
Modern Plaza and Friendship
Plaza, two of Beij ir1g’s new de-
partment stores, stare at one
another with six-story glass
ﬁonts no diﬁerent from Nieman
Marcus and Nordstrom back
home. Only the largest and
heaviest industries are still
government controlled and
Beijing is eager to reform these
white elephants that put a great
strain on the rest of the
economy.

However, like brown dust ﬁom the Gobi Desert that blan-
kets Beijing, communism still touches every aspect of Chi-
nese life. China has only half recovered from communism
because, like every other manifestation of the poisonous
ideology, the Chinese version quickly came to mean repres-
sion and abuse. Perhaps the terminology has become a bit
muddled since Marx ﬁrst dreamt of utopia, but the result of
every human attempt at “to each according to his needs” has
been an authoritarian regime that irnprisons and kills its own
people in an ultimately vain quest to retain power.

For example, the Intemet represents a terrible threat to
the communist regime because the Chinese are now free to
read virtually anything without government censorship. Nev-
ertheless, the government has blocked access to many
websites, most recently and notably, the Google search en-
gine. In fact, many other students here are unable to contact
their schools’ webmail sites. Most ﬁustratingly, news stories
linked through Yahoo! are blocked seemingly at random.

The worst abuses of the people, though, are those vis-
ited on the spiritually questing Chinese who have the temer-

 

Bnoor) ON THEIR HANDS. The brave protester at e
Tiananmen Square Massacre in 1989. The tanks did not stop.

government, all publications, including
Bibles, must be state-approved, Communist Party members
are forbidden to believe, and the government religious over-
seers, who must be atheist, decide which views may be es-
poused and which are “heretical.”

Additionally, every indi-
vidual believer must register
with the government and no
outside body may exert any
authority over the ofﬁcial
churches in China. As such,
the “Catholic” churches in
China are no more Catholic
than Lutherans or the Church
of England because ofﬁcial
Chinese “Catholics” are for-
bidden from obeying the
Pope. As such, true Roman
Catholics must worship in se-
cret and truly Roman Catholic
churches are underground.

The government isn’t

bashﬁrl about enforcing these
policies, either. InApril 1996,
5,000 troops were mustered to
the village of Dong Lu in
HeBei province to prevent a
Catholic pilgrimage and destroy a Marian shrine. In July,
three priests were sentenced to three years in the Chinese
gulag for “disturbing the peace of society?’ and being mem-
bers of a subversive “cult.”

The Cardinal Kung Foundation, which works to re-
turn Roman Catholicism to China, reports that at least one
priest has been murdered recently and currently, 12 bish-
ops and 17 priests are imprisoned, and two bishops and
seven priests have simply disappeared, all for their reli-
gious beliefs.

Of course, this is all in addition to the persecution of
Tibet, which the communists have occupied for nearly 50
years and where, as Amnesty International reports, one
out of every six prisoners is a Buddhist monk or nun.

China never experienced the religious wars the West
and the Middle East did because it had never been a par-
ticularly religious country. But now that religion is on the
verge of blossoming, the government has created religious
strife by demonstrating that, although China is now blessed
with economic freedom, freedom of conscience and asso-
ciation are still denied.

1 coumsvor '1(;O0(\1
arnous

    

ALL THE FUN & ALL THE PROTECT IONS
AMERICAN EXPRESS WORLDWIDE

OR CA$H STARTING WITH FIRST BOOKING
YOU SELL — WE COLLECT PAYMENTS

SELL SPRING BREAK TRIPS

GUARANTEED BEST BUY
1 FREE TRIPFOR EVERY l0 PAID

WORLD CLASS VACMIONS
1 —800-222-4432

Why just read this blank box
when your ad could be here.
Phi advertising works. Just do
it,x4060.

"Ii M00”-IIHS

Mondays 1:15:05
Washington 3IIl"ﬂﬁ9I'SOII
Be there.

Call Us For Our 5 Foot Italian Sub!!! ‘
Available In Vegetarian Or Meat
With Your Choice Of Ingredients:
Fresh Mozzerélla
Provolone
Cheddar Cheese

Prosciutto

Capicolla

Soppressata
Salami
Ham
Mortadella
Turkey
Grilled Zucchini
Roasted Red Peppers
Marinated Mushrooms
Marinated Artichoke
Red Onion
Lettuce Tomato
Our Own Pesto Spread or Mayo
*One Week Notice is Needed For All Sub Orders

 

Let Us Cater Your Next Fraternity Party Or Tailgate
On Our Premises Or At The Location Of Your Choice
With A Customized Menu To Fit YourBudget!

Serving Sunday Brunch Buffet From 11:30-2:30 All You Can Eat: $9.95
Call us at 540-464-5500

 Banquet Facilities On Premises Up To 200 People

. Dinner Entrees for Small and Large Groups:
Veggi Lasagna
Half Tray (serves 8-10) $29.95
Full Tray (serves 18-20) $55.95
Baked Ziti
Half Tray (serves 8-10) $25.95
Full Tray (serves 18-20) $45.95
Eggplant Parrnigiana
Half Tray (serves 8-10) $29.95
Full Tray (serves 18-20) $55.95
Sausage Pepper
Half Tray (serves 8-10) $31.95
Full Tray (serves 18-20) $59.95
Salad
Half Tray (serves 8-10) $14.95
Full Tray (serves 18-20) $27.95
Penne Vodka
Half Tray (serves 8-10) $25.95
Full Tray (serves 18-20) $45.95

Are pink shorts cool? Only if you’re a gent V  

As ajuniorhailing ﬁomthe great
state of Massachusetts, 1 have made
many an observation over the years
concerning the southern behavior here
atWashingt0n andLee. W&L, aschool
rife with geographically enhanced tra-
ditions, may give incoming Yankee
freshrnen a slight culture shock after
they arrive in Lex Vegas. To help north-
ern ﬁeshmen assimilate, I have com-
posed a list of things I have noticed
which may prove helpful to those L.L.
Bean carpetbaggers new to the South.

1. “Hotin Here. ” To the typi-
cal Yank, the rmairconditioned Graham-
LeesandBDGdonnsmayseemas
sweltering as the video for the summer-
time Nelly classic. To battle this heat, I
advise northern newcomers to trek to
Wal-Martsoﬂreycaninvestinatur’oo-
fan Also, leave wool sweaters weigh-
ingmorethatthe D-hall fro-yomachine
at home, since the only blizzards seen
inBigLexaresoldatthelocalDairy
Queen.

2. “Dude LooksLikeaLady ”

You know those multi-plaid shorts in the
men’s section of J . Crew? W&L males not
only buy them in bulk, but also wear them
in public. Also, large herds of guys can be

    

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 9, 2002

Ludacris for your MP3 ’s.

4. “The Fast and the Furious.”
Down South, the atmosphere is much more
relaxed. This is a good thing. People take

seen roaming the Hill in pastel hues that theirtirneirrspealcingandwalkingﬁornplaoe
wouldmakeﬂ1emostcolorﬁ1lofEastereggs to place. So if you are on the Colonnade,
jealous. However, tlresevrbrantdiﬁerenoes trying to book it to class at mach speed,
are a welcome change think again, since your
from the ubiquitous ' ;  2-, colleaguesﬁomwarmer
baggy jeans and back- :   MY NORTH FACE climatesrnaybebelrind
wards Red Sox cap en- 2 I I  _7 you. Save your rapid

   

semble seen in Boston.
Also, who canﬁndrnajor ﬁrultwitlraboy
in a pink button-down if he is chivalrous
enough to hold the door open for you?
3. “Gone Country. ” Cour1t1ymu-
sic is pretty popular south of the Mason-
Dixon. Give it a chance, since you might
enjoy it (try Texas—based Pat Green and
Cory Morrow) even if it will give your
ﬁiends back home something to tease you
about relentlessly. If you ﬁnd you are more
Destiny’s Child than Dixie Chicks, yet you
want to appear musically savvy, compro-
mise with the quintessential college musi-
cian, Dave Matthews, and leave the

walking pace for the
new ﬁtness center, and understand that
when you are blurring out the latest story
to your southern roommate, they may be
left in the verbal Yankee dust of "This one
time,ataparty. . .”

5. “BBQStain. ”WhereI’mfrom,‘

a barbeque consists of hamburgers, hot
dogs, and chips. Here, southern students
deﬁne barbeque as pulled pork on rolls. If
you are the ‘when-in-Rome’ type, enjoy
and know that you have my undying re-
spect Ifyou are apickyYankee, follow my
advice: smile, nod, then drive to Wendy’s
forsomeBiggieﬁies. . ..!

Not just left or right, but up or down

It is no secret that the students of Washington and
Lee University are politically minded, but often the con-
structive debate often stops after the first question: “Are
you a Republican?” If the answer is no, this usually
results in a situation where this person is labeled a Demo-
crat or worse.

This “one or the other” view, reinforced by our un-
fairly govemment-endorsed “two party system”, closes
the door to third party options. Students must realize
that there is not just a
pendulum that swings
left and right; some-
times, it sits in the
middle or even goes
up and down. Moreover, it is possible for people to have
different deﬁnitions of “conservative.” Too often the
deﬁnition of “conservative” is “Republican” while “lib-
eral” translates as “Democrat.”

W&L Republicans, in particular and unfortu-
nately, like to translate the statement, “I voted for Gore,”
as “I voted to kill babies.” The same problem occurs
with the Democrats who assume that because someone
voted for President Bush, this person also supports his
decision to shut down clinics providing free medical
care to the needy in foreign countries.

This isn’t why the people who voted for Bush and
Gore chose their particular candidate. The Democrats
may have said that they believe in a woman’s right to

FREE THOUGHTS
 

 

choose more strongly than they disagree with his envi-
ronmental vigilance, and the Republicans may have said
that lower taxes were most important to them. Most of us
decide how to cast our votes by prioritizing the things
that are most important to us; those who choose to vote
because they like neither candidate are overly idealist or
uninformed about third party candidates.

Such ignorance is dangerous and constricts the ﬂow
of thought in a free society. Third parties are crucial to
stimulating the political arena; unfortunately, the only
recent success a third party candidate has had at the.

1

presidential level was H. Ross Perot in 1992, with almost ‘

20 percent of the popular vote.

I would like to introduce students to the ideas of the
Libertarian Party. This party is characterized as being in
favor of self—deterrnination, both personally and economi-
cally. You may interpret this to mean that we are socially
liberal while ﬁscally conservative. It is quite possible
that many Washington & Lee students are Libertarian
without knowing it. Republicans who are pro-choice,
feminists who support President Bush’s agenda, and all

students who believe in more relaxed drug and alcohol I

laws, while considering themselves as centrists maybe
better off voting Libertarian than Republican as they have
done in the past. I encourage the W&L student body to
further explore Libertarian ideas. Perhaps then we will
foster a truly constructive political debate and see some
new ideas emerge.

sf‘‘‘’’‘’”'?”
{3}

We
«st M

W»-
§<m»\\\z4////ac».
6”“ 3
xi:

, ‘K
‘cg at

Athe week

linitiate new friendships.

4

it

I

 

tar li.l}{C.}~~”t”i..'Ei‘i P


PAGE 5

RTS

«Fresh ‘Play Fair’ at Ruins

.‘ BY MCQUEEN CALVERT
sriii? intiitii

Freshman Orientation Week has
always included trips to Lee Chapel,
‘placement tests, advisor meetings,
and several picnics. This year’s new
freshman class, however,
participated in a new event during
in addition to the
traditional and annual orientation
week activities.
This year, the Freshman
Orientation Committee, headed by

‘junior Kathryn Drinkard and senior

Berdine Edgar, searched for an
innovative activity for the new
students which would help to
Their
answer came in the form of what is
refered to as an ‘Ultimate
Icebreaker. ’

The Ultimate Icebreaker is a
program run by an entertainment
service known as Playfair. As a
team-building experience and a
powerful program for campus unity

i-rand school spirit, Playfair is more

than just a way for new students to
become acquainted.

This popular campus
attraction is used during

‘orientation week at colleges and

universities all over the country.
The name “playfair” was decided
on because the leaders want

‘students to learn how to work

hard, and PLAY fair.

The Ultimate lcebreaker activity
is designed to help participants
quickly overcome the prevalent initial

‘concerns that any new student may

have. An FOC member explained,
“We wanted to make sure that the
freshmen met as many of each other

‘as possible, so we decided to do

something different this year. Playfair
got everyone involved and made them

.\R‘J‘S & i.ii?F. F.Dl‘l'()R

wish to.

“We know from c—inails and other feedback we have
received that the weekend is not the best time for everyone
to come out to the drive—in,” says Elise Sheffield, chair of
the Board of Directors of Hull’s Angels. “Many people
work weekends, of course, and we have heard as well
,r from many local college students that they would welcome

a Thursday-night showing.”

‘ The idea behind the Sunday evening reversal is
Q motivated by the fact that some people go to the double-
_ feature in order to see the second film and are forced to sit
“through another movie that they are not interested in
seeing. “I know from personal experience that it can be
rough staying out past 1 a.m. to see a particular movie,"
says David Rachels, who works on the movie-selection
a, committee for llull’s Angels, “So Sundays are a chance
for those people who are eager to see the second movie,
but don’t want to lose all that sleep.”
This new schedule will be launched on Thursday,
September 12 featuring the movies “Signs” and “Road to

l BY SAM LAGRONE

\’.\'ll DESK

This is a quick and dirty
day in the life of an average
cadet.

After pounding my head
against as many large objects as I
could find I figured ifl couldn’t be

4‘ funny, then at least I could be

informative.
6:30 A.M.: The freshmen (Rats)

Hull‘s Drive-ln Theatre, Lexington’s only drive—in
movie theatre will be introducing some experimental
changes this upcoming year. Located on Route 11
approximately 5 miles north of W&L’s campus, Hull’s has
u been a favorite of Washington and Lee students for years.

Hull”s is exceptional in the sense that it is run by a local
non—profit organization known as Hull's Angels. This
year’s initiatives should help to increase 1-lull’s
accessibility to all and, as a result, its popularity.
Traditionally, Hull’s has shown double—features
each weekend, on Friday, Saturday, and Sunday. This
fall, double-features will also be shown on Thursday
evenings in addition to the current line-up. Also new
p this season, the order of the films will be reversed on
Sunday nights to allow people to see different movies
on different nights without staying up later than they

all act silly together, so they had an
immediate memory with their
classmates”.

FOC members were ‘trained’
and prepared by the host before the
new students arrived at the Ruins
on Sunday evening. The host
taught them how to help lead the
activities, and how to make sure
that no new student was ever left
alone.

When the freshmen ﬁnished their
meal, Playfair took the stage, and all
of the new students were asked to do
several initial activities. They were to
stand up at the sound of a whistle
and form groups of 3, then 6. Students
were then divided into groups
according to birth month, and asked
to learn the names of everyone in their
small group.

As the evening went on, so did
the activities. FOC member Cara
Cronin, a sophomore, recalls, “The
kids were real enthusiastic and
willing to try the different
activities...it was great meeting so
many ofthe new freshmen”. As this
was the first year that Washington
and Lee has hosted Playfair, the
students walked away from the
Ruins Sunday night having different
opinions on the success of the
event.

The overall consensus of the
freshmen is that while the way it
was presented was ‘corny’, it was
a good way to meet people.
Elizabeth King, another
sophomore FOC member
commented, “You did get to meet
people, and even if you don’t
remember their names, at least you
will recognize their face when you
see them around”.

Freshman Donny Banks liked the
event because he said that he met a
lot of people, even if he encountered

.Hul|’s Drive-ln changes schedule

BY CATHERINE C. Gm’

Freshman Orientation Leaders introduce new activity to Orientation Week lineup

them in a way that was quite out of
the ordinary. For an ice breaker, most
agreed that it was ‘pretty good.’

Many of the FOC members
thought that Playfair was a very good
way for students to become
acquainted, but also found that they
met a lot of students without an
icebreaker~type activity during
orientation week. Several freshmen
were overheard talking about being
in the same ‘core group’ at playtair,
and were heard saying how much they
enjoyed it because they met so many
people.

Another freshman activity
during the orientation week was
Pieces of the Puzzle, the two-part play
put on partially by Burr Datz. He acted
out scenes which concerned eating
disorders, alcoholism, partying,
dating, teen sex and teen pregnancy.
Freshman Olivia Mansfield stated
that, “The information they were
presenting was valuable, but the way
it was presented made it hard to take
seriously.”

‘In response to some of the
comments made by Burr Datz about
sex, freshman Pierce Owings
thought, “He was really dirty.”
Although it may have been a very
controversial play that was often
difficult to take seriously, freshman
Donny Banks enjoyed the skits,
"While they were pretty
controversial topics, he didn’t give
his own opinion, which was good".

Overall, Orientation Week went
very smoothly, and the freshmen
seem to be adjusting well to college
life. As Cara Cronin said, “They
were a lot more involved in the
activities than 1 anticipated”.

Hopefully the freshmen have
finished Orientation week with fond
memories that will last for years to
come.

Perdition”. The films will begin at dusk, which is

approximately 8 p.m., though the gates open at 7. The fall

of September 26.

463-262 1 .

get up, rub the sleep out their eyes,
shave, get dressed, roll up their
mattresses and stack their wooden
cots in the comer.

6:50 A.M.: Rats get to their
senior mentors’ room and rub the
sleep out their eyes, help them
shave, get them dressed, roll up their
mattresses and stack their wooden
cots in the comer.

6:55 A.M.: A booming god-
like voice breaks the silence

season ends on Sunday, October 6. Between now and
then Hull’s will show such other double—features as
“Triple X” and “Bloodwork” the weekend of September
19, and “Austin Powers 3” and “Blue Crush” the weekend

lf this new schedule is successful, many more
Lexington residents as well as college students will be
able to enjoy the unique cinematic experience. For more
information, feel free to visit www.hullsdriveincom or call ,

Hull’s hopes to see as many members of the
University community as possible this fall!

sounding the five-minute call to
breakfast roll call. Some
upperclassmen, the ones bent on
conserving as much energy as
possible, roll out of bed and
jump into yesterday’s uniform
and run down the stairs while
they tuck in their shirts.

7:00 A.M.: The student
body (The Corps, always
capitalized) stand with their
companies (a group of about

  

(I.tiiii~iu\i.: C. Gm’
Airis 8: Liii: El)l’l‘()R
E\i\iut;ui@\iii‘.ii>i'

MONDAY, Si.~‘;i>i“i?..\—tii3r~.ii 9, 2002

STUDIOUS STUDENTS SILENTLY STUDY

Ari‘ l)rP»\R‘iiir.Ni‘ Puss RF.l.l‘-ASE

Steven G. Paulk will show his
sculpture in duPont Gallery at
Washington and Lee September
16 to October 26th. The opening
reception and gallery talk will be
on Friday, September 20 at 5:30
p.m. The exhibit, entitled “Found
and Lost: 1982-2002,”is of mixed
media constructions. Using
found objects combined with
painting, drawing, and sculptural
fabrication. Paulk explores social
and political themes in powerful
formal compositions.

Paulk received his BFA from
Stephen F. Austin University, his
MFA from Southern Methodist
University and has been a Resident
Artist at the Glassell School at
Houston. I-le has taught at
Southern Methodist University, at
the Oxbow School in Saugatuck,
Michigan, and at the Glassell
School. He worked as a set designer
and as a restoration builder in
Houston before taking up his
present position as the Residential
Building Inspector for the City of
Lexington in 2001. He is also
currently serving as an adjunct
professor of art at James Madison
University.

Over the last twenty years Paulk
has exhibited widely with numerous
solo and group shows in Texas,
Arkansas, Oklahoma, and Louisiana
 will be his introduction to local
audiences. Areception will follow his
talk; the public is invited.

 

140 organized by height.) We
pay respect to the flags and our

Ti. ill‘ um

(.}i\-'i-‘.i'i"i'iii:oi.i')r:< 7l.l.l?‘.(ili‘l’l{Y.‘]c1'Ct‘nlali i\'lCVVill.iati1sa1id liista pivotal few days, they are not daunted. No. they, like niany
x\crec are hard at W()t.'l{ preparing for the aairlemic demands of

their sophomore year. Though work has moutited in these

l
l
students, cnjtiy the challenge of SCl1(,)( il work, as thev ciijoir the l
' ‘ ' l
lovely autumnal bree'/.e. Sweaty tourists gtiped. l

Locals Dut Gibiti

people need to get down here. Then
we sit down and eat eggs out of a
carton and a strange gravy sauce
with flecks that could be ground
beefor gravel.

7:50A.M.: Ten-minute call to the
first class.

8:00 A.M. -12:00 P.M.: Classes
form up. The highest-ranking cadet
takes roll and makes a report to the
professor, who is usually in
uniform. The diversity of some of
the schedules can be hilarious. A

higher ups take attendance to ,<_'p.c'atlet can go from ethics and a

make sure that we haven’t"i

slipped out during the night to
set up a counter-culture sandal
production commune in
Vermont.

7210 -7:50 A.M.: The Corps
marches down to breakfast with
drums. Really loud drums. Sinus
clearing drums. The Sudafed

"fidiscussion ofpacifism to Army lab

to learn the finer points of shooting
people.

2:00: Lunch. Cadets line up again
and take roll.

2 : 00-4 : 00
classes.

4:15 P.M.: Military Duty. This is
reserved for mandatory three mile

P.M.: More

runs, study. mzirching practice,
speeches, presentations, sports
practice...etc.

6:30 P.M.: Supper, more
respect to flags and more making-
sure-you’re—still—hcre stuff. (l
swear when it comes to

attendance make the hardest high»

school vice principal look like a

six~year—old girl in a ballerina.

costume.)

7:00-10:45 P.M.: Study Time. this ;
is when lots of guys and girls play?

video games and sleep.
l0:45-l 1:00 "P.M.: A fifteen

minute chunk oftime that cadets}
can throw a Frisbee and not geti
in trouble for violating study)

rules.
ll:00 P.M.: Lights out.

Reach Sam LaGrone at
lagroiie.vr@nzai I. vnii. edu.

 

 

 

PAGE 6 ii

W&L returns 17 starters
from team that tied tor2nd
in conference last year

BY JEREMY FRANKLIN
SPORTS EDITOR

To start the 2002 football season,
Frank Miriello did something he’d
never done in his seven previous
years as Washington and Lee head
coach.

At Old Dominion Athletic Confer-
ence media day at the end of July,
Miriello picked his Generals to ﬁnish
ﬁrst in the conference.

“For quite some time, I’d pick us
three, four myself. Last year I picked
us third and we tied for second,”
Miriello said. “This year I picked us
ﬁrst. I think that there’s some pieces
in place now that that could happen.”

The Generals return 17 starters
from a team that went 5-5, 3-3 in the
ODAC, in 2001 . Among that group is
senior running back Chris Sullivan,
who led the nation in all-purpose
yards last year with 2,008, including
1,189 and eight touchdowns on the
ground.

According to Sullivan, the team’s
familiarity with each other will play a
bigger role than the amount of talent
on the ﬁeld.

“We are deﬁnitely more comfort-
able with all of these guys returning,”
he said. “We come into this season
already knowing how each other
works and thinks, and that can make

FALL

OPEN FIELD. Senior Chris Sullivan was an Associated Press

TEE RING-Tun PHI

SPORTS
Generals irn for OA titl

 
  

JEREMYFRANRUN
SPOKIS EDHOR
EMRI; FRlNl\IllN]@\VIU.FDU

(I1lKIE3YOFSUUSNUlI\I.-\'IU\1

the nation in all-purpose yards with 2,008. He gained 1,189

Third Team Little All-America selection in 2001 after leading rushing yards and eight touchdowns on 253 carries.

a big difference when things have to
happen in a split—second.”

Junior quarterback Peter Dean, a
converted defensive back, returns to
the lineup with a full season ofexperi—

ence under his belt. Dean completed
49.6 percent of his passes in 2001,
throwing for 1,424 yards with eight
TDs and eight interceptions.

Dean will have plenty of protec-

tion from an experienced offensive
line. Senior Mat Rapoza is a returning
All-America selection on the offen-
sive line, where he is joined by fellow
All-ODAC pick Scott Kucinski.

W&L beneﬁts from quiet offseason

BY DAVID CROWELL
AssIsTANT spORTs EDITOR

Last year, the Washington and
Lee women’s soccer team opened
the season with a tougher road than

‘ most in the Old Dominion Athletic

Conference. The Generals returned
12 players, but faced the prospect
of introducing 12 freshmen to the
program and replacing an all-con-
ference goalie.

To make matters more difficult, a
new coach, Neil Cunningham, took
the reins, eager to lead a team that
narrowly missed an ODAC Champi-
onship in 2000.

With that in mind, you could ra-
tionalize last season’s double-over-
time loss to Roanoke in the ODAC
Semiﬁnals.

For the 2002 team, however, there
will be no excuses for a slow start or
mistakes due to team chemistry.

“Since we have so many returning
players, we were able to come into
preseason knowing what to expect.
We got right into working on what
was important and what we wanted
to improve from last season,” junior
midﬁelder/defender and co-captain

‘ Meghan Hayde said. “We all have the

same goals, which will make it that
much easier to attain them.”

Hayde will combine with senior
midﬁelder Jenny Thomas and senior
defender Lindsey Duran to form the
trio of captains responsible for lead-
ing the Generals into battle.

“They’re great leaders,”
Cunningham said. “They set a great
example for incoming freshmen, but
also for the players who have been

 here and know the system.”

Hayde hopes to follow up on her

1 stellar sophomore season, when she

RIESI Q7SX')KISlNK)lI\ TKN

HIGH EXPECTATIONS. Junior Heather Coleman and the \X/ashington and Lee women’s
soccer team are shooting for their ﬁrst Old Dominion Athletic Conference title.

earned First Team All-ODAC honors.
Thomas, also a captain last season,
hopes to add to her career points to-
tal (33 points on 10 goals and 13 as-
sists) while solidifying a midﬁeld that
graduated four-time First Team All-
ODAC performer Kate Bidwell.

Duran, an Honorable Mention All-
ODAC selection last season, will an-
chor the defense along with Hayde
and sophomore Kelley Zagol, who
also garnered Honorable Mention All-
ODAC honors last season.

The strong defense will only help
sophomore goalies Emily Barker (1 1
games, 0.89 GAA) andAbigail Pfeiffer
(eight games, 0.87 GAA), who each
gained valuable experience last year.

Providing the offensive punch
this season will be a number of veter-
ans, led by junior forward Fontaine
Marcoux. Marcoux earned First Team
All-ODAC accolades last year aﬁer
scoring six goals and recording a
school-record 12 assists.

In addition, junior Susannah

 

Hewlett and sophomores Maggie
Hope, Ginny Helms and Molly
Plummer should spend plenty of time
threatening opposing defenses.

Curmingham has no qualms about
his offense. “Creating chances is
something we’ve always been good
at doing,” he said. “We just need to
convert on more of those chances than
we did last year.”

The only true question mark this
season is at midﬁeld, where Bidwell
spent four years drawing constant
attention from opponents.

Thomas and junior Heather
Coleman, who scored ﬁve goals and
added an assist on her way to Honor-
able Mention All-ODAC honors,
should spearhead a talented midﬁeld.

“It’s difficult to replace a great
player, but we’ve changed our play-
ing style a bit to deal with the loss.
We also have some sophomores
(Rorrmey Wilson, Martha Allgood,
Alison Irvin) and incoming freshmen
who can hopefully do some things for
us,” Cunningham said.

Despite the loss of Bidwell, none
of the Generals doubt that this team,
with 16 returning players and great
depth, can walk away with its first-
ever ODAC championship.

“Our program has continually
gained strength and experience, which
should make us one of the top con-
tenders for the title,” Thomas said.
“Our team’s success is dependent on
always playing our game and never
letting the level of play drop despite
what our opponent does.”

‘‘I really think we have the ability
and the talent to do it this year,”
Hayde agreed. “We know what we
need to get done and I really think
everyone is going to put in the work
to make it happen.”

Join the sports staff of the P/92°.

Opportunities are available to cover Washington and Lee sports.
Writers are needed for game stories, features and interviews.

If you’re interested, Contact Sorts Editor Jeremy Franklin at
X4060 or ﬁramé/z'rrj@u//rt. edzr or stop by our weekly staff meetings

at 5 p.m. on Mondays.

€011

 

There’s not really a drop-o be-
hind those two, as seniors Joe Vitta
and John Melillo, juniors Rick Gazica
and Mark Muchmore and sophomore
Anderson Braswell round out the
ranks on the line.

“Strength of the team,” Miriello
said. “This offensive line is moving
better, they’re stronger, they’re more
athletic. This is as good of an offen-
sive line as we’ve had here in quite
some time.”

Senior tight end Jay Thomas, who
led W&L with 38 catches for 575
yards and six scores in 2001, high-
lights the Generals’ receiving corps.
Senior Dyllan Rankin will join sopho-
mores Taylor Callaham, Jon Brimer and
John Bamwell and freshman Clark
Kensinger in the hunt for playing time
at wideout.

One of the Generals’ primary con-
cerns in 2002 is depth, particularly on
the defensive side of the football.
Several players, including lineman
Brian Becker, linebacker Ben Krasnoif
and safety Lee Walker, all juniors,
haven’t made it through practice 100
percent healthy.

“If one of our front-liners gets
dinged a little bit, then we’ve got a
couple of question marks coming up
in a hurry,” Miriello said. “We’re
young and inexperienced with back-
ups in our front seven. But the front
seven, if they’re healthy, is very good.
And when the first four guys in the
secondary are on the ﬁeld, we’re very
good.”

Juniors Jess Lipsey and Andrew
Bahl both return to the three-man de-

 

BY JEREMY FRANKLIN
SPORTS EDITOR

One of the few things that will be
the same this year for the Washing-
ton and Lee men’s soccer team will
be the ultimate goal of winning an
Old Dominion Athletic Conference
championship.

The Generals have a slew of new
starters for Rolf Piranian, who en-
ters his 27th season as head coach,
as well as 13 freshmen on the ros-
ter.

“We’re definitely a different
team,” Piranian said. “We’ve
lost some very important play-
ers to this team. But we have
seven seniors, so that should
mean you’d have pretty good
leadership.”

Senior co-captains Brad
Murphy and Kevin Bibona are
back at forward and defender, re-
spectively. Classmates Paul
Ne gron and Sean Hardin are in the
mix on defense, while Garreth
Winstead will appear in the Gener-
als’ midﬁeld.

Rounding out the senior class
are goalies Tim Foley and Brad
Heam, who will split playing time in
the Generals’ net.

the team when we went to the
Sweet 16 of the NCAA Tourna-
ment two years ago,” Foley said.
“That experience has helped us
prepare for this season because
we know how great it was to get
there and we are hungry to get
back.”

The arrangement in front of Foley
and Heam is an early-season task
for W&L to ﬁgure out. Sophomore
defenders Peter Miller and Brian
Pirkle are also seeking playing time,
as the Generals have yet to decide
on a sweeper.

New faces, same goals .
armen’seaforward .

“There are still a handful of
senior players that were part of

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 9, 2002'

gridiron ~

fensive line. Senior Matt Stavish
started all 10 games at linebacker in
2001; he will be joined by Krasnoffgp
senior Andrew James and sophomore 2
Lloyd Wilson this year.

Junior Ted Maﬂitt tied for the team
lead with ﬁve interceptions last sea-
son, and he joins Walker at safety!
Seniors Matt Conners, who returns
after taking a season off to focus on
lacrosse, and Brian Meehan should
start at cornerback. ‘

Sullivan averaged 26.7 yards per
kick return and 10.7 on punt returns
last year, giving the Generals a lethal
weapon on special teams.

The kicking game is far from a cer-I
tainty, however. Junior Whit
Whitﬁeld is back as the team’s punter,
but the Generals are still searching for
a replacement for graduated‘
placekicker Brad Wiginton.

Min'el1o’s faith in his team wasn’t
echoed by the other coaches in the
ODAC, who tabbed W&L to ﬁnish
ﬁfth in the seven-team conference!
Bridgewater, which lost to Mount
Union (Ohio) in the Division III na-
tional title game, is again the favorite
to win the conference. 1‘

“The ODAC is one of the most
evenly matched conferences in all of
college football, and no game can be
taken for granted,” Sullivan said. “We
are building off three 5-5 seasons in a!
row, and we need to break out of that.
And if there is any team that can, it is
this year’s.’’ '‘

The Generals open the season at
home against Johns Hopkins at 1 p.m.
Saturday.

OODRTIE»YN<)RMATIo\=
OFFENSE WEAPON. Senior forward Brad Murphy will share captain duties with A
defender Kevin Bibona for the W&L men’s soccer team in 2002.

Sophomore Justin Mygatt and
freshman Walker Nickles will join
junior Jacob Stoehr, W&L’s leading
scorer in 2001, and Winstead in the
midﬁeld.

Piranian said that his middle —
the Generals play a 3-5-2 set — is
talented, but needs a chance to play i‘
together. “We’re tinkering around
with that and trying to establish
chemistry,” he said.

The Generals also must ﬁght a
tough schedule, which doesn’t
feature a home match until Octo-
ber. But playing away from home ’
for the ﬁrst month of the season
could have a positive spin foria
W&L.

“We have two tournaments we’re
excited about, that will give us a
bunch of games to experiment with,”
Piranian said. “We want to win ev-
ery game, but if you lose a non-con-
ference game in one of these tour-
naments, it doesn’t have to be the
end of the world.” K

Defending conference champion
Roanoke, arguably W&L’s biggest
rival in soccer, headlines the list of
teams the Generals will compete‘
with in the ODAC this year.

“In conference, I would say that
Roanoke is the team I look forward
to playing the most because they
are our biggest rival and there is!
always a little bit of bad blood be-
tween the two sides, which always
makes for a great match,” Foley
said. ‘

Even among the seniors, the Gen-
erals have an eye to the future of
men’s soccer at W&L, but they’re
not losing sight of that armual pre-
season goal. «Q

“I ﬁrmly believe that we will take
home another ODAC championship
this year,” Foley said. “We are just,
trying to leave a solid legacy fornext
year’s seniors to pick up where we
left off and improve.”

 

  

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 9, 2002

BY MICHAEL LEE
SPORTS WRITER

Washington and Lee volleyball
has their work cut out for them this
year, but the team is optimistic and

ﬂrepared to meet the challenges of the
pcoming season.

Fans will recall that the Generals
won the Old Dominion Athletic
Conference championship last year

‘with a 10-0 record in conference play,
and a 30-5 record overall. W&L de-

i feated Christopher Newport in the

first round of the NCAA Division
III Tournament before falling to
‘Emory.

A season like that should be difﬁ-
ciilt to follow up, especially when
coupled with the graduation of Lind-

‘say Ruckert, a four-time All-ODAC
First Team player and three—time
ODAC Player of the Year.

In spite of that excellence last sea-

son, head coach Bryan Snyder is quite
-“positive about the team this year.

“We’ve been practicing for a week
and a half, and so far, performance
has been good,” Snyder said. “We

‘had our intra-squad scrimmage last
Saturday (Aug. 31), and that went
very well.”

The team is young this year — of
the 12 players, 11 are freshmen or

“sophomores. Snyder enjoys that qual-
. ity of his team, however.

“They are a very young team, but

with that youth comes a lot of enthu-

gsiasm and energy,” the third-year
head coach said. “They’re very
coachable and receptive, and they’ve
been working very hard.”

In addition, Snyder noted that

‘while losing Ruckert was difﬁcult, the

1 Hockey

‘rises fast
dnODAC

BY MICHAEL LEE
SPORTS WRITER

R, The no-longer rookie Wash-
}ington and Lee ﬁeld hockey team
3is off to an excellent start this
year.

Led by head coach Wendy Orrison
‘and assisted by Melissa Miranda, the
team is past its first-year jitters and is
ready‘ to take on the Old Dominion
Athletic Conference.

'1 The Generals had a difﬁcult sea-
son in 2001, with a 3-10 record over-
all, 2-7 in ODAC play. However,
seven of those losses were by one
goal, and one was to eventual con-
ference champion Lynchburg, a 1-0
ﬁnal score. This year, the Generals
are looking to avenge those close
games.

! Last season, W&L was ranked
10th in the preseason coaches’ poll.
But this year, Orrison noted with no
small satisfaction that the team is

. picked fourth. The Generals are on
the young side, but they are learn-
ing well.

“Three or four of those freshmen
will start, and all of them will see

Asome playing time,” Orrison said.
“They’re a good, strong group, and

,' that type of energy helps the up-
‘ perclassmen rise to their greatest

‘ potential, too.”

Co-captains Kathleen Gibson, a se-
nior, and Kelly Taffe, a junior, were
also very conﬁdent about the team
this year. Gibson pointed out that the

¢team’s youth will, if anything, be an
asset.

“We’re a young program, and hav-
ing a lot of freshmen and sophomores

indie.

' Spring Break 2003 with STS
‘ Americas #1 Student Tour
Operator
Sell Trips earn cash Travel Free
Information/Reservations

1-800-648-4849 or
www.ststrave1.com

‘F-

.-.e...........-. \\:I1(“‘al‘\VP .. “i -.—~ (4 .».....,- ... ..

MEET THE GENERALS. Senior Stacey Kimmel (12) is the lone
upperclassman on W&L’s 2002 squad. Her teammates include,

team has proven to be much more
balanced this year. “With ﬁve hitters
and a better bench, our overall talent
and skill level has risen a lot,” he said.

Senior captain Stacey Kimmel is
the lone upperclassman, and Snyder
pointed out that she had her best year
to date last season, recording 200 kills,
218 digs, 45 blocks and a school-
record 113 aces. Kimmel praised her
younger teammates.

“I am deﬁnitely conﬁdent in these
girls,” she said. “All six freshmen are
talented, and three will probably see
a lot of playing time right off the bat.

ON THE TURF. junior Kelly Taffe returns to Washington and Lee’s ﬁeld hockey

  .FAI.L   
 Generals Wok with young team

 
   

‘PAGE 7

We’re going to have to spread out
our play a lot, but the freshmen will
ﬁnd their places, and we’ll be as strong
as last year.”

Those three freshmen are middle
blockers Susan Gaillard and Taylor
Gibson and opposite Christine
Gladysz. Outside hitters Laura Byme
and Ashleigh Overly, setter Virginia
Baird and opposite Erin Teichgraeber
may see playing time as well.

Snyder also commended his
sophomores, who will be counted on
to bring needed experience to the
team. Among that bunch is Jennifer

   
 

(DURTER §(XlSll\'lDRI\H

team as a captain. The Generals, entering their second year as a Varsity program,
were picked fourth in the Old Dominion Athletic Conference.

brings a lot of passion to the game,”
Gibson said.

Other players to watch this season
include junior forward Jessica Lake,
who was second on the team in scor-
ing with eight points on four goals;
sophomore forward Kristen Brown,
who started all 13 games last season;
and sophomore link Kitt Murphy, who
earned All-ODAC Honorable Mention
honors last season.

The Generals’ defense will also
be looking for a good season, hav-
ing held opponents to an average
of just 1.95 goals per game with
sophomore defenders Kyle
Meehan and Erin Rathbone on the
ﬁeld.

Orrison was only able to bring the
team in for practice two weeks before
their ﬁrst game, which will be at Mary
Baldwin on Sept. 1 1, but the practices
have gone Very well.

“Our preseason workouts just
ended, and it’s been very fun. The team

  
     
    
   
     
  
  
     



STUDENTS:     

ssarr.

TARBOX RAMBLERS

WITH SHERYL WARNER AND
THIS $0!/THSIDE HOMI-WRECKERS A

  
   

has an amazing enthusiasm and en-
ergy,” Orrison said. “The parents and
administration have been very sup-
portive as well.’’

Assistant coach Melissa Miranda
is the most striking new addition to
the team. Last year, women’s lacrosse
coach Jan Hathom assisted Orrison,
but she has returned to lacrosse full-
time.

Miranda noted that her coworkers
have been very supportive. “I feel that
I’ve been welcomed with open arms,”
she said. “Everyone, from the athletic
director (Mike Walsh) to the faculty
has made me feel at home.”

Taffe said that the practices have
gone very well. “Our preseason work-
outs have been very energetic,” she

said. “The team has been working very _

hard, and we’re ready for Mary
Baldwin.”

The Generals open their home and
conference seasons with a match
against Hollins on Sept. 18.

Lexrn. ginia
Sat., September 14
7:30 p.m.
Their search for a more pure and
immediate music makes their

sound like no other: latched into
a vast history but entirely now.

463-3074  

"’-"“"W-“   .

 

J/TlieRz'rIgIumP}ir'

from left, freshman Christine Gladysz, sophomores Michelle
Chastain andjennifer Lux and freshman Susan Gaillard.

Lux, who set a W&L season record
with 1,186 assists as a freshman.

“Jennifer Lux is our setter, and
she’s very good at it. She was named
ODAC Rookie of the Year last year,
and we’ll be relying on her,” Snyder
said. “We’ve also moved Emily Wolf-
ing to a better position on defense,
so we’ll be taking advantage of her
talents a little better, and Michelle
Chastain should have an excellent
year as well.”

The Generals open ODAC play
with a 6:30 p.m. match against Guilford
at home on Wednesday.

BY JEREMY FRANKLIN
SPORTS EDITOR

Washington and Lee women’s
cross country coach Amy Schuckert
wants 2002 to be a blockbuster year
for her program.

In her second year with the Gen-
erals, Schuckert is already thinking
long-term for cross country at W&L.

“I want to help build the founda-
tion to bring us along and switch us
from the program that we’ve been
to a program where we can expect
success year in
and year out,”
Schuckert said.

The Gener-
als have nine
returning run-
ners this year,
complemented
by eight fresh-
men. Senior
Burke Duncan,
who missed qualifying for the
NCAA national meet by one place
last season, headlines the group
coming back to W&L.

Duncan said that this year’s edi-
tion of the Generals has more po-
tential than the 1999 and 2000 Old
Dominion Athletic Conference cham-
pionship squads.

“Going into my fourth cross
country season at W&L, this
year’s squad looks to be the stron-
gest I have been a part of,” she
said. “The amount of talent and
depth is amazing in the freshmen,
and they have all put in the crucial

DUNCAN

 

Women runners look
toward future of program

summer training base to make the
smooth transition to the college
level.”

In a recent time trial, Schuckert
timed eight of her players faster than
W&L’s No. 2 runner a yearjago.
Duncan is still the top General, but
she may have a good deal of com-
petition before the season is over.

Freshmen Molly Drake and Betsy
Frayer are running close behind
Duncan. Currently fourth is another
newcomer to the program, sopho-
more Liz Crawford, whom Schuckert
recruited from the track team.

Senior Jen Fallon, junior Vanessa
Adams and freshmen Meg Garner,
Megan Ward and Sarah Williamson
are also running well in the pre-
season, Schuckert said.

The Generals were picked third
in the ODAC this year, a season af-
ter ﬁnishing fourth. Eastern Menno-
nite and Roanoke were tabbed ahead
of W&L, with Lynchburg a close
fourth.

“I think we’re going to make a
few surprises,” Schuckert said. “I
like the fact that we are ranked third
now. It takes some of the pressure
off. I see three teams who can be
contenders for the title, and I see us
among that three.”

“We have our sights set on an
ODAC championship, and hopefully
an unprecedented finish at the
NCAA regional meet,” Duncan
agreed. “We are a young team so
we have nothing to lose, and every-
thing to prove, which is extremely
exciting.” .

Men boast talented   squad

W&L returns solid corps from cross country team that finished 3rd in conference

BY DAVID CROWELL
ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITOR

On Aug. 23, the Old Dominion Ath-
letic Conference men’s cross country
coaches picked Washington and Lee to
ﬁnish third in their armual preseason poll.

If the Generals can capitalize on an
abundance of great runners, however,
those coaches might be reconsider-
ing by the end of the season.

Coach John
Tucker’s squad re-
turns without the
services of Ken
Jackrnan,aco-cap-
tain last season,
but seniors Will
Teichman and
David Hicks
should help the
team improve on
last season’s third—place ﬁnish at the
ODAC Championships.

Teichman ended his season on a
good note last fall, ﬁnishing 54th at
the NCAA South/Southeast Region
Championships two weeks after run-
ning a season-best time at the ODAC
Championships. Teichrnan’s time of
27:12 at the ODAC meet helped him
secure 12th place.

 

TUCKER

“Good rurmers improve their times
through a combination of training and
intelligent racing,” Teichman said.
“My success in last year’s ODAC
meet gave me the conﬁdence neces-
sary to train over the summer months
and will bolster smart racing this
year.”

But don’t think that the Generals
are a one-man team. In fact, Teichman
calls W&L’s group of runners the most
promising team he’s seen during his
four years of competition.

Tucker believes that Teichman,
junior Andy Schorr, sophomores Wes
Bell and Steve Chambers and fresh-
man Andrew Johnson “are an excel-
lent top ﬁve” and that they lead “the
most talented team we’ve had in ﬁve
or six years.”

In addition, the Generals feature a
number of other tough competitors to
give Tucker one of the deepest ros-
ters in the conference. Hicks is a very
capable runner with three years of
experience, and Tucker believes that
junior Rusty Meyer can step up to be
a top runner.

Junior Andrew Fotinos also
stepped up last season to become one
of the top four runners on the team
after an injury sidelined Schorr.

    

For now, however, the Generals will
not be running with a full team. Tucker
has wisely chosen to rest Teichman,
Schorr and Bell due to some soreness
in their legs.

“We’re being
careful with them
to avoid injuries.
We don’t want to
lose them for the
important part of
the season,”
Tucker said. “We
should have our
entire squad run-
ning by Sept. 28.”

When the whole squad comes to-
gether later this month, Teichman and
Tucker expect the team to live up to
its potential.

“We have strong runners and a
depth which will enable us to consis-
tently perform at a higher level,’’
Teichman said. “Our success will
hinge on the ability of our squad to
come together and run as a team dur-
ing the season’s key races. We expe-
rience the most success when we train
and race side by side, pushing each
other to reach our potentia .”

W&L hosts the armual Generals
Invitational on Saturday.

T EICHMAN

Questions, comments or suggestions for the sports pages of the P/72?
Contact Sports Editor Jeremy Franklin at frame/z'7y'@u2/u.edu 'or
Assistant Sports Editor David Crowell at crou/e//d@u2/u.edzt.

For W&L sports news
and scores, visit
http://ath|etics.wlu.edu

    

 
 

  

 

Have a name or number embroidered
on your shirt while you shop.
Extended embroidery hours for this weekend:

Friday 10-3
Saturday 11-5
Coming soon:

University Sportwear Grand Opening

September 23-28

15 W. Washington Street

Lexington, Virginia
5‘.l.‘.’.:?‘§4.'.;”.,".‘.?.°   -

— 5--ﬁr‘ ...a...v...-....«...u-  sI

 

 

 

l.’.ir;i;: 8

enerals op

rn']i«:iiEMr Fiu.Nt<t.iN
SF0ll'l‘S l3ilTzl'l‘(.2ll

Washington and Lee has started
the 2002 volleyball season in similar
fashion to the way they opened a year
ago.

The Generals won three of their
four matches at the W&L Invita-
tional on Friday and Saturday, just
as they did in 2001. Head coach
Bryan Snyder got considerable
playing time for several freshmen,
much like last season.

“All in all. the ﬁeshnnin class did a
greatjob for it being their first week-
end of collegiate volleyball, so .l.’m
very happy with where they are right
now." Snyder said of his seven first-
ycar players.

W&L knocked offGoucher twice,
beat Shenandoah on Friday and lost
a live-game match to Christopher
Newport Saturday morning.

The Generals started the invita-
tional with a 30-1 1. 30-14. 30-20 win
over Goucher. Sophomore Michelle
Chastain set a school record with nine
aces. including four straigltt to close
out the first game, en route to an All-
Tournamcnt Team selection.

“(Chastain) played really. really
well in all facets ofthe game,” Snyder

    

  

said. ‘She just played so under con-
trol, did a greatjob of serve-receive.
defense. hitting. blocking. She played
great. and were going to need that.
“We’re a young team, and the
sophomore class is really going to
have to step up and be our leaders.”

   

2‘ .

UP, UP AND AWAY. .v\t lc ft. frcslnnaii Susan ( Sail lard serves in \‘<}'&l is victory over
Gouclicr on Friday. ,--\br..>vc_. sophomore “Michelle (lhastain (13) goes up for a kill

it in 1-

during the ('lcncrals’ 30-l ‘I _, 30-14. 3l.l~3ll win over the Grsphcrs.

W&L stepped up their play in the
nightcap against Shenandoah. hand-
ing the Hornets £130-l7, 30-6, 30-} 6
loss. Sophomore Jennifer Lux had 29
assists, and classmate Emily Woiting
contributed 11 kills to complement
Chastain"s l-1.

Snyder thought that his team
served the ball well i.n. both ofF ri day ’s
matches.

“We had a ton of aces. and the
girls were also doing a great job of
serving the zones that I was calling,”
he said. “That really allows us defen-

W&L hits the ground running at Elon

FROM S'l}\l7l’ REPORTS

GRELE;-‘\lSl3()RO. N.C‘. ~~~~~~~ -The Wash-
ington and Lee men”s and women’s

cross country teams started their 2002.

season with a good showing at the
Elon invitational on Saturday morn-
ing. The women’s team placed second
of l3 teams while the men. running
without some oftheir top runners. tin-
ished ti fth of IS teams.

Freshman Molly Drake led the way
for the women, finishing the course in
20:14, good enough for 22nd place.

In the field of l 58 runners. senior
Burke Duncan ﬁnished five seconds
behind Drake to take 25th place. Fresh-
man Betsy Frayer placed 33rd with a
time of20:49.

Sophomore Steven Cliambcrs led

0 the men’s squad, finishing in 28: l4 to

place 26th out of 155 runners. Fresh-

 Friday, Sept. 6
5 W&L d. Gaucher, 30-11, 30-14. 30-20

W&L d. Shenandoah, 30-17, 30-6. 30-16

W&L VOLLEYBALL lNVlTATlONAL

Christopher Newport d. St. Marys, 30-15, 30-21, 30-22
Shenandoah d. Gaucher. 30-24, 30-25, 28-30, 30-19 ’
Catholic d St. Marys, 20-30, 30-26, 30-9, 30-16

man Andrew Johnson placed 38th
with a time of28:4‘) while sophomore
Christopher l-aFlamtne placed 55th
overall.

Women ’s soccer falls to
Wesleyan to open season

NOR F O l..K ~--- The Washington
and Lee womcn’s soccer dropped its
opening contest of the season on Sat.-
urdziy afternoon. falling to Old’ Domin-
ion Athletic Conference rival Virginia
Wesleyan. l-0. With the win, the Mar-
lins moved to 3-0.

Virginia Wesleyan scored the lone
goal ofthc game at the 31:18 mark of
the first half when Megan Parris
scored otfan assist from M errie Tobler.

Despite committing l 8 fouls. the Mar-
lins outshot the Generals l 7-8 on the day.

Virginia Wesleyan’s Laura

Monday, Sept. 9
Women's Soccer

\V’ieder\-vax earned her second victory
in goal and lirst career shutout by
making seven saves on the day.
Sophomores Abigail Pteitfer and Emily
Barker combined to make six saves in
net for W8: l_.

Men drop pair of contests

at Southwestern tourney

GEORGETOWN. Texas ———— -~ The
Washington and Lee n1en’s soccer
team got off to a slow start this past
weekend. dropping a pair ofnon-eon-
ference matches at Southwestern
University. 4-0 to Trinity (Texas) on
Saturday and 4-2 to the host school
on Sunday.

In Saturdays loss. the Generals
could never get anything going as
Trinity jumped out to a 2-0 halftime
lead and never looked back. Josh Card

Men’s Soccer

W&L vs. North Carolina Wesleyan
W&L at Sweet Brier, 4 pm. (‘ll M9”‘°dl5ll= l P-m‘

Women’s Soccer

Christopher Newport at W&L, 4 pm.

led the Tigers with two goals and an
assist in the first ever meeting be-
tween the clubs.

Trinity outshot W&L 29-l for the
game.

in Sunday's matchup against
Southwestern. the Generals struck
ll1‘Sl as senior midlicldcr Kevin Bi bona
scored off an assist from senior for-
ward Brad Murphy at the 25 :38 mark.

The Pirates tied the game less than
a minute later, but the Generals re-
gained the lead before the end of the
half on a goal by freshman midﬁelder
Brett Strohsacker. Sophomore Brian
Pirkle assisted on the tally.

Despite holding the lead at the
break, the Generals quickly fell to
Southwestern’s attack as the Pirates
rattled off three unanswered goals.

Senior Brad l-learn made nine saves
in goal for W&L.

SC(.)REB(.)ARI)

 wttsm... Scui=.ouLE: septEMBEta9—22

Men's Tennis
W&L Fall Classic

Saturday, Sept. 21

    

sively and blocking-wise to set up our
schemes and take away what we're
trying to take away from the other
team.”

The Generals ran into an improved
Christopher Newport team Saturday
morning. Unlike their two meetings
last season, including one in the first
round ofthe NCAA Division I It Tour-
nament, the Captains prevailed by a
21-30, 30-28, 30-25, 19-30, l5-l2 score.

‘‘It was disappointing, just because
we beat them twice last year.” Chastain
said. “They’re a very good team.
They‘ve improved so much from last
year. We had our highs and our lows.“

W&L appeared to be in control
ofthe match during the first game.
After storming out to a 15-4 lead
on seven service points by senior
Stacey Kimmel, the Captains could
get no closer than a seven-point
deficit.

Christopher Newport then won a
pair of closely fought frames to take
the lead in the match. W&L stormed
back to win the fourth game before
the Captains pulled out the win.

Wolting led the team. with I 7 kills.
while Chastain added 14 kills and i5
digs. Freshman Christine Gladysz re-
corded 20 digs, while Lux contributed
46 assists.

Catholic d. Christopher Newport, 26-30, 30-26, 30-24. 30-22

Saturday, Sept. 7

St. Mary's d. Goucher, 30-14, 30-13, .30-28

Christopher Newport d. W&L, 21-30, 30-28, 30-25, 19-30, 15-12
Catholic d. Shenandoah. 30-21, 3046, 30-14

W&L cl. Gaucher, 30-13, 30-15. 30-21

St. lvla-ry’s d. Shenandoah. 30-24. 18-30, 30-22. 30-24

Championship Game
Catholic 11. Christopher Newport, 30-24, 30-23, 30-20

All-Tournament Team

Mary Whiting, GNU

Nina Richardson, CNU
Oksana Boukhtlna. GNU (MVP)

Bridget Guetle. Catholic
Anti Wall, Catholic
Michelle Chastain, W&L

Wednesday, Sept. 11 Field Hockey

Field Hockey 5 d S 15 W&L at Lynchburg, 1 pm.
war at Mary Baldwin. 5 pm. V:{fe;§;,,:§:‘cen,,e ,W,,,ame,,,, . Football

V°“9Yba“ W&L vs. Transylvania. 10:30 am. W&L al G“lll°“l: l W“-

Guéllcrcl at W&L, 6:30 pm.

September 14-15
Field Hockey
W&L at Salisbury Tournament

Saturday, Sept. 14

Cross Country

Generals’ invitational, 10 a.m.
Volleyball (at Centre Tournament)
W&L vs. Avert-alt, 12 pm.

W&L at Centre, 3 pm.

Football

Johns Hopkins at W&L, 1 pm.

W&L vs. Rhodes, 1230 p.m.
Men‘s Soccer
W&L at Methodist. 4 p.m.

Wednesday, Sept. 18
Women’s Soccer

W&L at Lynchhurg, 4 pm.
Field Hockey

Holllns at W&L, 6:30 p.m.
Volleyball

Hollins at W&L. 6:30 pm.

September 21~22
Golf
W&L at James Madison invitational

Men’s Soccer

W&L at Hampden-Sydney. 1 pm.
Women’s Soccer

l‘lOllll"lS at W&L, 1 pm.
Volleyball

W&L at Eastern Mennonite, t p.m.

Sunday, Sept. 22
Women's Soccer
Greensboro at \llI&L. 1 pm.
Volleyball
W&L at Randolph-Macon, 1 pm.
W&L vs. Virginia Wesleyan

(at Randolphlt/lacon), 3 pm.

in']n1ir.trr FRANKLIN
Sl‘0l?.’l‘S l:il‘)l‘l‘t,)§l

Washington and Lee has named
Bryan Snyder interim women ’s bas-
ketball coach for the 2002-03 season.

Snyder served as assistant coach
to Janet llollack, who resigned in
July, for the previous two years. He
is also in his third season as coach
of the volleyball team, which won
an Old Dominion Athletic Confer-
ence title last year.

“We’re just
really excited.
lt’s a really posi-
tive develop-
ment for the pro-
gram," senior
center Austin
Calhoun said. “I
think that we‘re
all really looking
forward to this
season. We’re
just going to go and give it everything
we’ ve got. The fact that we have Coach
Snyder back is just going to make that
even more positive.”

Snyder‘s top goal for the
women’s team this year is to pro-
vide a streamlined transition for
whoever takes over as W&L’s per-
manent head coach.

"‘Wc‘ve had some success re-
cently. I want to maintain that,” he
said. “I would like to get us back in
the ODAC Tournament. bring in
some good recruits for next year so
that when we hire at full-time coach,
the program is on the upswing."

SNYDER

 

   

g.=.\-'lt..wi_>.nj', S_lEP’l‘l£_hll3lfiR_ 9, 2002

en seson with3 wins in home invite

The Generals had trouble with
handling serves, particularly in the
games that Christopher Newport xx-‘om.

“The games where we served
tougher than they did and serve-re-
ceived better than they did. we beat
them fairly easily,” Snyder said.
“When they served us tough and e
weren’t able to handle their serves.
we got in a hole. and then we got a
little less aggressive with our serves. 

W&L bounced back from the twp-

hour match to defeat Goucher for the.
second time in as many days Satan’
day afternoon. This time the Gener-

als defcated the Gophers 30- l 3. 30-
15. 30-21, led by freshman Lauﬁa
.Byrne’s ll} kills.

Snyder was pleased with his tealn’s
offensive performance over the week-
end. ‘

“We’re trying to work spreading
the offense out a little bit more." he
said. “Our strength this year is being
able to be versatile on offense. run
the ball to live different attackers. u§e
the back-row attack. Those sorts of
things are things that can play to our
advantage.”

The Generals open Old Dominir
Athletic Conference play with a 6:30
pm. match Wednesday against
Gull ford in the Warner Center.

The Generals have some rai-
building to do after graduating
five seniors from a team that fin-
ished l2- l4 and 9-] l in the
OD!-\C. g

Among the graduates were Vir-
ginia College Division Player ofthe
Year Jessica Mentz, a forward who
averaged 20 points and ll.8 re-
bounds per game. and center z\/legzhi
Babst. who tallied 19 points and l0.l
boards a contest. W&L also lost
third-leading scorer Sarah Schmidt,
who hit 40.6 percent of her three-
pointers in 200] -02 while averaging
6.4 points per game.

The Generals do return two play-
ers who started all but three games
last season in freshmen lF;ni.il\y
Barker and Bethany Dannelly.
Barker scored 6.2 points per con-
test. while Dannelly averaged 3.7
points and totaled I52 assists (pi
the season.

With that in mind, having a
coach familiar with the program is
vital to the Generals’ success in
2002-03. 1

“He knows our strengths and
what we have, so he’ll be able to
work" with that and make up our game
plan based on that,” senior guard
Elizabeth lgo said. “Obviously. hav-
ing lost five seniors. were not re-
ally thinking that we’re going to go
out and win an ODAC champion-
ship. 1
“But we definitely have goals.
and we definitely believe that we
can make the ODAC Tourna-
merit.”

Fundraising dates are ﬁlling quickly, so
get with the program! It works. Contact ~

CarnpusFundraiser at (888) 923-3238, or
visit www.campusfundraiser.com

fraternities Q sororities
Bllllls Q Stutlent (lrouns
Earn $1,000--$2,000 this semester with a ‘
proven CampusFundraiser 3 hour
fundraising event. Our programs make h
fundraising easy with no risks. ,

!

Snyder named interim’ .
women’s hoops coach‘

Assistant to take over program for 2002-03 season

I‘.

 

 

 

Local man
bus ed
or child porn

BY ANDREW LATIMER
NEWs EDITOR

‘F-

P»

I.

K

LexingtonPolicearrestedI_e2dr1gtonresident Shawn
O. Shockley Sept. 9 on nine felony counts of distribu-
tion or transmission of sexually explicity materials
involving a child.

The investigation of Shockley’s home in the 100-
block of West Nelson Street yielded a dozen 3.5-inch
diskettes containing compromising pictures of mi-
nors gathered from different sources on the Internet.

.1 The case marks the second time in ayear that the
Lexington community has been rocked by charges of
sex crimes involving minors. Rockbridge County Cir-
cuit court convicted Virginia Military Institute history
professor Paul G Pierpaoli, Jr., on Feb. 4 for soliciting sex

" with aminor and having carnalknowledge ofa child.

Shockley, 31, came under suspicion inApril when
Lexington police received areport ﬁomthe Waynesboro
(Va) Police Departmentthatamanhaddiscovereda set

A of vulgarpictures onthe Internet belongingto Shockley.

Ofﬁcer Jonathan Shenk investigated the images,
which were hosted on Shockley’s Yahoo! account,
where they could be shared with other users. To
determine if Shockley tookthe pictures himself, Shenk

‘ and VMI Post Officer Huey Johnson posed as a 14-
year-old Asian girl from Staunton and sent the sus-
pect several e-mails to provoke a response.

“It’s a usual practice,” Shenk explained. During

'4 the correspondence Shockley gave out his cell phone
number and solicited sex from the oﬁicers in dis-
guise. They also learned Shockley did not own a
computer himself and instead relied upon public ac-
cess to the Internet.

it It is unclear how long the offending pictures
were displayed on the Internet, but Yahoo! officials
immediately ‘complied with.~Lexington police re-
quests to disable the account.

Lexington police stressed that none of the pic-

2 tures appeared to be taken by Shockley and that he
had no prior sexual offense convictions in Va.

Shockley also faces one misdemeanor count of
possession of child pornography, one count of use

( of a communication system to solicity sex with a
minor and one count of marijuana possession when he
is arraigned Sept. 23. Each felony charge of distribution
carries a sentence ofat least 15 years under the Child

‘ Pornography Prevention Act of 1996.

University slips again
tin collegiate rankings

Annual U. 8. News and World Report list
viplaces W&L within top 15 American liberal arts schools

STAFF REPORTS

2002 RANKINGS

BEST LIBERAL ARTS SCHOOLS

Amherst

Swarthmore; Williams
Wellesley

Carleton, Pomona
Bowdoin; Middlebury
Davidson

10 Haverford

11 Wesleyan

12 Grinell

13 Claremont McKenna; Smith
15 Washington & Lee;
Vassar; Harvey Mudd

<O\l01<h'\)~A

1‘ (Schools that are tied are viewed
by U.S. News as equal.)

 

The writers of US. News and
,, World Report dropped Washing-
ton and Lee University back to
1 5th best liberal arts institution in
their annual list of the nation’s top
colleges, released Fri.

The magazine’s rankings
take into account a weighted
composite that includes the as-
sessment of peer institutions’
administrators, students’ SAT
scores, retention rate of fresh-
men, faculty resources, student
selectivity, ﬁnancial resources,
alumni giving and graduation
rate performance.

Washington and Lee competed
for honors with 217 liberal arts insti-

LEST WE FORGET

REMElV[BERINGSEPI‘.11.Asd0Zﬁ]SOf ﬂagsﬂewabovelmdrigtnrfs
streets (above), \Washington and Lee commemorated the
anniversary of the terrorist attacks on America. At exacdy 8:46
am,d1eLeeClIapelbeIl,alongwiththebellsofareachurches,all
rar1ginuriisontomad<themomer1tArrmcanAidir1esFlight11
aashediritothenorthtowtxof theV(/oﬂdTrade Center: University

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

i NG-TUM

The student wire of War/riwgtorr and Lee Urrirreriih time 1897 (D Orr/we at: p/rzlw/rr.rdrr

Peace Corps
founder to speak

Poverty expert will share four decades of experience

while on duty at the Pentagon

has BR()()l(S/ The Rmg-/wzz P/It
ProvostIaurentBoetschspokeatthe11a.m. “CelcbrateArneIica”
progmmatVMI,andat8p.rn,over200membersof the
cormrnniitygadieredforaCarxllelightServiceondieFmntLawn
Among those remdnberedwerejarnes Gadiel ’00, victim of the

‘ WorldTradeCer1terattad<s,andCmdrRobertSchlegel’85,l<1lled

PHI

*

EDITOR IN CHIEF

Century of Fighting
Poverty” this Tues.
evening at 7:30 p.m. in
Lee Chapel.
“Shriver was
well known before
most of you became
aware of politics,”
said Harlan Beckley,
Shepherd Poverty
Program director, in

civilian award.”

Campus radio returns to airwaves full-tirne

Manager implements change, but not without controversy as Christian program dubbed too ‘religious’

BY DOUGLAS ALLEN AND ANDREW LATIMER
srurr WRITER AND NE\vs EDITOR

After lying quiet for over a year, Wash-
ington and Lee’s FM radio station WLUR
will take to the airwaves once again this
week, this time with a full-time manager and
new home in the Uni-
versity Center.

But more impor-

the challengeiof reviv-
ing itself after its ex-
tended hiatus and loss
of affiliation with the
journalism school. That
task has been given to
Benjamin Losi ’02, the first non-student
general manager/program director.
“WLUR has always been a joke,” said
Losi, who makes it clear that he wants to
see major changes this year. He’s started

Losi

William Connelly.

work.

men 01' senators .

guest speaker.

tantly, the statiqrrfaees « - -

BY MATTHEW MCDERMOTI‘
EDITOR IN CHIEF

The Washington Term Program is still on track, de-
spite the sabbatical of its director, Politics Professor

According to its webpage, the Program “enhance(s)
students’ understanding of national politics and gover-
nance” through an internship and additional academic

Connelly believes in “participant observation,”
said senior Ruth Hill Yielding, his work study student.
“That’s observing and taking part in your internship,
but not ‘going native.

In the Program, students intern four days of the
week. Internships are not necessarily with congress-

On Fridays, Connelly teaches a two-hour class,
Hill said. In the afternoon, the program arranges for a

Often the speaker has been “someone from a lob-
bying group, or a Congressman,” Hill said. Past guest

by retooling the deejay application pro-
cess, which now requires students to sub-
mit a mix CD ofthe proposed show’s con-
tent so he can gauge their musical talent,
taste and interest. ‘

The goal is professionalism, but according
to junior Timothy Smith, there have been some
casualties. When Smith inquired about continu-
ing the Christian music program he hosted his
ﬁeshman year, Losi denied the request.
-“Ehave nothing against Christian music and I
want the programming to be about expression, but
I do not want shows that promote particular reli-
gious and political interests,” he said

According to Smith, the exact word-
ing Losi used was that the program would
be “distasteful,” although Losi refutes that
statement. Smith remarked, “My guess is
that he’s making a very uneducated as-
sumption.”

So far, 16 radio shows have been ap-
proved and should begin broadcasting this

week under the station’s new and extended 8
a.m. to 2 a.m. daily schedule. The average day
will include a blend of music and talk shows,

as well as continued coverage of sporting _

events. Student-run shows will each have one
2-hour slot per week.

Although WLUR has existed since the
mid-sixties, the past two years have
marked some the station’s most uncertain
times. Plans for Reid Hal1’s renovations

didn’t include space ‘for a radio studio, '1 r

and the program‘ was left hanging. Senior
and student manager recalled, “No one in
the administration had a clear-cut answer
as to the status of WLUR.”

It took Director of Communications Tom
White to recognize the station’s value and
urge the university to keep 91.5 FM on the
air, recognizing that “WLUR is a tremendous
asset to the university... and a great outlet
for W&L students.”

See WLUR, page 2

Applications due soon for Washington Term

speakers include U.S. Vice President Dick Cheney, Sec-
retary of Labor Robert Reich and Congressman Jim

Davis (D-FL).

Particiapants in the program keep a journal, and write
a term paper of “fourteen or fifteen pages,” Hill said.

Despite his sabbatical, Connelly will also par-

ticipate in the preliminary stages of the Washington
Term Program. He will review applications and con-
duct interviews.

Approximately 16 students are selected annually.

quired.

$77

Students of any major are welcome to apply,
though an introductary‘ Politics 100, 101, or 111 is re-

The program is free outside of living expenses, which
include room. Students may live with family or friends in
the area, Hill said, but most choose to live together in an

apartment complex.

Students on ﬁnancial aid should consult with the
Financial Aid oﬂice.

There will be an informational meeting on Mon., Sept.

23 at 7:30 pm in Room 221 of the Commerce School. Appli-
cations are due four days later.

BY MATTHEW MCDERMOTT

Sargent Shriver, a historical
ﬁgure, will present “Recollec-
tions and Challenges: A Half

 

a letter to Shepherd students.

“Shriver was one of the
most notable statesmen and
humanitarians in political and
civic affairs, a career earning
him the Presidential Medal of
Freedom, the nation’s highest

 

 
MONDAY, SEPl"EMBERl6, 2002

Shriver’s political work be-
gan in 1960 when he served as a
political and organization coor-
dinator for then presidential
nominee John F. Kennedy. Fol-
lowing Kennedy’s election,
Shriver was appointed
the first director of the
Peace Corps.

“His visit to
Washington and
Lee University is
prompted by the
Board of Trustees’s
Special Resolution
honoring his life of
service,” said jun-
ior Victoria Gurioan, Contact
vice-chair for publicity.

Former Peace Corps mem-
bers in this area will make a pre-
sentation at Shriver’s talk. Cabell
Brand, chair of the Roanake
Board of Total Action Against

SI-IRIVER

See SHRIVER, page 2

    

l)hlUIO(I)UKIB\ WWMWf (ml
PESKY. Common mosquitos might turn
into more than a nuisance for residents.

West Nile
reaches area

BY KATIE HOWELL
EDITOR IN CHIEF

Lexington-area college students
are not completely immune to the mos-
quito-bome West Nile virus, local
health ofﬁcials said.

Dr. Douglas Larsen, Director of the
Central Shenandoah Health District
and the Rockbridge-Lexington and
Augusta-Staunton Health Depart-
ments said now that West Nile virus is
present in Rockbridge County and Lex-
ington, older citizens and students alike
should take appropriate precautions to
combat infection of the virus.

According to the Virginia State
Department of Health, West Nile virus
infection is one spread by bites from
infected mosquitoes. The virus usu-
ally causes a mild illness, but may also
cause encephalitis, an inﬂammation of
the brain, or meningitis, an inﬂamma-
tion of the brain and spinal cord lining.

“We’ve mostly found the virus (in
our district) in crows and blue jays,”
Larsen said. “There have been no hu-
man cases here yet, but that doesn’t
mean people shouldn’t be careful.”

Larsen said the Virginia Health
Department tested one crow and two
blue jays from Rockbridge County posi-
tive for West Nile virus on August 27

See MOSQUITOES, page 2

UPS AND DOWNS , tutions, which are classified as
, THE LAST 10 YEARS’ RANKINGS schools that focus on undergradu-
1992 22nd 1998 8th ates and award at least half of their
1993 20th 1999 14th degrees in F1‘? liberal %"‘S- _
1994 20th 2000 12th Th°V“%1“1aM‘1¥“=",Y Insmute
, 1995 15th 2001 13th wasnamed best public liberal arts
’‘ 1996 15th 2002 15th institution In the country, put they
1997 13th did not appear in the top 50.
W&L was also named the 4th
SELECTED CATEGORIES best value college in the “Great
,\ 2001 2002 SchoFols athGrehat Zrices” list.
.. ort et 11' yearrnarow,
,S__:I:crtg:3/urces,  120;: Princeton topped the overall list,
Almnnigiving 8th 9th followed by a tie between

1‘ ‘'re1iectsins1itutions'oommitmerItto
student instruction via small classes,
adequate faculty salaries and having
themosthighly educated faculty.

DATA couursr or US. NEW’i‘.~i.‘\'D WORLD REPORT

Harvard and Yale. .

No one in the administration
was available for comment on the
rankings as of press time.

The US. News guide, whichbe-
gan in 1983, has steadily grown into
one _of the most inﬂuential resources
inthe college decision-makingprocess.

BY KATIE HoWELI.
EDITOR IN CHIEF

Washington and Lee University’s
English Department will host its twen-
tieth “celebrity literary critic” at
tonight’s Shannon-Clark lecture with
Stanford University English Profes-
sor Franco Moretti.

“Our line-up of lecturers has in-
cluded some of the most celebrated
and prestigious literary critics of our
time,” said English Department Chair
James Warren.

Moretti, as the Shannon-Clark
lecturer, will talk tonight in Northen
Auditorium at 8 :00 to faculty, students
and the community on ‘Maps, Graphs,
Trees: Abstract Models for Literary
History.’

Warren said Moretti is a scholar

 

of nineteenth-century German, French,
British, Italian and Spanish literary his-
tory. He said his talk will include a
Power-Point presentation of maps, trees
and graphs tying together places and
situations in nine-
teenth-century
European ﬁction.

“He can
show things about
different trades
and professions in
the work and dis-
cover things that
you had no idea
were present,”
Warren said. “He shows patterns that
you would not normally notice.”

In addition to the lecture, Moretti
will be talking with English faculty and
majors at a Skylark retreat tomorrow.

MORETTI

“The Sharmon-Clark lecturer al-
ways goes to Skylark farm with all the
English faculty and majors, which
gives us the chance to discuss the
lecturer’s work with him,” Warren said.

Warren said not only are Moretti’s
maps a valuable source of information,
but also are his discussions afterward.

“Another cool thing about
Moretti is that he is so widely-read in
the field, and he makes points that most
people would have a hard time imagin-
ing,” Warren said. “For example, he
knows all of Balzac’s novels so well
that he could map Paris in the nine-
teenth century without a problem.”

Warren said the English faculty
chose Moretti as this year’s lecturer
because he is a “hot shot in the ﬁeld.”

“We always try to spread our lec-
turers around on different topics of lit-

Moretti to deliver Shannon-Clark Lecture

erary critics, either American or British
or someone who does something such
as Irish literature.”

Professors Suzanne Keen and Ed-
ward Adams were the ones who sug-
gested Moretti to the department, War-
ren said.

“Moretti’s writing is so witty and
charming that I carmot imagine his lec-
ture will not also be,” Warren said. “I
am expecting it to be a lot of fun.”

According to the Washington and
Lee news ofﬁce, an anonymous donor
funded the Sharmon-Clark lecture se-
ries to honor the memories of Edgar
Finley Sharmon, chairman of Washing-
ton and Lee’s Department of English
from 19l4 until 1938, and Harriet Mabel
Fishbum Clark, Shannon’s grand

See MORETTI, page 2

 

 

 

'gg_j> 1 E35 2892

Committee examines W&L harassment policy

Internet questionnaire sheds light on student dissatisfaction with university’s stand, yet no action needs to be taken

FROM STAFF REl’()R'l"S

Dean of the College Jeanine Stewart headed
a faculty committee that vindicated all aspects
of the W&L harassment committee, except for
its intake.

Acting President Laurent Boetsch created
the committee, which was active from Nov. 2001
until May 2002. Composed of administrators
and students, the committee examined W&L’s
sexual harassment policy.

“We interviewed past members of the
SFHB, peer counselors, University counse-
lors,” Stewart said. Her committee also sent

a broadcast e-mail directing students to an
Internet questionnaire.

The questionnaire revealed that many
students disliked the school’s sexual harass-
ment policy, though few had any direct con-
tact with it. The committee, however, after scru-
tinizing that body, found nothing amiss.

“(The complaints) had no focus,” Stewart
said. “The SFHB is unable to discuss details
of the case, and is unable to defend itself.”

The committee found fault not with the
handling but the initial reporting of sexual ha-
rassment cases. The new CAIR program, said
Stewart, will increase the availability of re-

sources, as well as increase complaintant’s
options. .

Students “can ﬁle a complaint, even if they
don’t want any further action,” Stewart said.
“They can meet separately (from their harasser),
or send a letter, or demand a written apology.”

After reaching its conclusions, Stewart’s
committee reported its ﬁnding to the Student
Affairs Committee, chaired by Dean of Students
David Howison.

“SAC gave its full and enthusiastic support
to Jeanine Stewart’s report as submitted to us,”
Howison said. “We made no changes (to the
committee ’s proposal).”

Epidemic settles in Lex

MosQUIroEs, from page 1

and 28. This information,
however, was only recently
released.

“The testing procedure is
very involved and takes sev-
eral days or weeks,” Larsen
said. “Plus, the Health Depart-
ment is backed up with so
many cases to test.”

Larsen said that even
though the virus is now tested
positive in the county,
chances are very unlikely for
a healthy person to become
infected from a mosquito bite.

“What can you do to ﬁght
the virus? Nothing,” Larsen
said. “Even in an epidemic area,
the maximum number of people
who receive symptoms from
the disease is [approximately]
10 out of1000.”

He also said that if the
virus does enter one’s blood-
stream that the chances of
symptoms occurring are slim.

“Unless you are dia-
betic, and are young and
healthy, the chances of
contracting serious compli-
cations from the virus are
very small.”

He also said that since
the ﬁrst frosts of winter will
be arriving soon, diminishing
the mosquito populations,
chances of contracting an in-
fection from the virus will be
even less.

Larsen did, however, rec-
ommend precautions against
mosquito bites.

“Mosquitoes are at-
tracted to the carbon dioxide
that we breathe out,” Larsen
said. “Since we can’t have

people stop breathing, you
should use something that
hides the carbon dioxide such
as a repellant with DEET.”

Other precautions include
wearing loosely ﬁtting cloth-
ing, light colors and removing
bodies of standing water.

“Mosquitoes can get
through tight clothing and still
bite you,” Larsen said. “Cer-
tain varieties also are attracted
by dark colors.”

The Health Department is
also taking measures to edu-
cate citizens on West Nile vi-
rus. Information is available
on the district website at http:/
/www.thehealthdepartment.org.

“West Nile can be a se-
rious epidemic,” Larsen
said. “But we have taken the
proper precautions to limit it
in the area.”

THE

- Subscribe to

  
  

a view of the larger world.”

Global poverty
expert to talk

SHRIVER, from page 1

Poverty, helped is friends with Shriver, and helped ar-
range his visit, Beckley said.

Shriver’s talk is sponsored by Contact, the Oﬁice
of the President and the Shepherd Program.

A graduate from Yale University and Yale Law
School, Shriver also served for ﬁve years in the U.S.
Navy. He ended his military service as a Lt. Commander
at the end of World War II.

“(Shiiver) has served as an international lawyer, admin-
istrator, ambassador and advocate for the poor,” said junior
Contact Vice-chair for Publicity Victoria Guroian. He has also
been George McGovem’s presidential running mate, presi-
dent of the Special Olympics and ambassador to France.

Authorized by Congress in 1961 to “promote world
peace and friendship,” the Peace Corps allows Ameri-
cans to preform tours of service in interested countries

Shriver, the receipient of 24 honorary university de-
grees, from universities. His awards include the Veteran
of the Year (1956), the National Father of the Year (1964),
the Franklin D. Roosevelt Freedom From Want Award
(1993), and the nation’s highest civilian honor the Presi-
dential Medal of Freedom (1994).

Lecture on 19th century Europe held tonight
MORETTI, from page 1

mother, who was a supporter of liberal education. The
English Department brings in one literary scholar each
year to speak with the W&L community about his work.

“It’s a great honor for a lecturer to be included in
this program,” Warren said. “It also gives the students

WLUR, from page 2

The job of retroﬁtting the Uni-
versity Center’s basement into an
operable studio then fell to Michael
Hurst, who was contracted as engi-
neer for the station.

With its new studio and more
powerful transmitter, WLUR is
ready to regain the respect and at-
tention of students. Already
planned are features like
Saturday’s “Anti-Headache Ma-
chine,” hosted by Doug Harwood,

   

J

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 16, 2002

 

iasiiaooks/rrexagiumpu

TESTING, TESTING. Listeners who turn their dials to 91.5 FM this week will hear
WLUR’s ﬁrst full schedule of operation since the station closed down in 2001.

WLUR debuts new programming .

and Sunday’s bluegrass show with
Dorsey Hostetter.

Students and faculty alike
were invited through Campus No- '
tices and flyers to apply for a
show, and it is hoped that the ﬁnal
schedule will reflect the

community’s diversity because, as ,, ‘

Tom White feels, campus radio is
less “formula driven” than com-
mercial radio.

The station’s programming is
also available to listen to worldwide ‘
at http://wlur.wlu.edu.

 

IA

D

-———C-l————CC—
3' JV

«ST

‘ Editors in chief

 

‘MONDAY, SErrEMBER 16, 2002”

  \l5l§i)liD1TORIAL

About the Phi’s coverage of Sept. 11

Last Wednesday was not your typical

  

2 W&L Wednesday night. The droves of

partygoers stayed off the streets, the fraternity
and country houses lay dormant and the major-
ity of students took at least some time off to
reﬂect upon a year like no other we’ve experi-
enced as a school, a community or a country.
Sept. 11 was and will be a day that affects
each one of us, even if we approach it in dif-
ferent ways. One student might have felt more
comfortable sitting with his or her friends around
the television last week, watching and remem-
bering what went through their minds one year

1‘ ago. Another could have found a quiet spot to

meditate, either alone or at the Candlelight Vigil
on the Front Lawn.
Likewise, the staff of The Ring-tum Phi

F had to choose its own way in covering the an-

niversary of the attackson America. Readers
might have noticed that we opted not to report
on every aspect of the then-upcoming date in

1 last week’s issue.

Part of it was a matter of timing. Had
we launched into an extravagant report of
Sept. 11 two days ahead of time, we would

.1 have felt like we were perhaps capitalizing

on emotions, not news.
Of course, such a decision ran the risk of
appearing callous or even malevolent toward

‘ everyone who was affected, either directly or

indirectly, by terrorism on our soil.

Our honest feelings were that The Tri-
dent, The News-Gazette and The
Rockbridge Weekly, with their Wednesday
publication dates, were far better suited to
cover Sept. 11 in a meaningful way, and it’s
our opinion that they did that job well.

We weren’t going to “pre—empt” everyone
else and outdo the other papers at the expense
of readers’ compassion for the bereaved.

Sept. 11 is a date that we share, like it or
not. The Phi extends its sympathy to the friends

“ and family of James Gadiel and Cmdr. Robert

Schlegel, both of whom lost their lives in a
senseless tragedy.

,. Website shows true W&L character

Many would say W&L is a community dedi-
cated to rumors, meddling and gossip. Everyone
knows who “hooked up” with whom and exactly

a‘ which freshman guy vomited in a fraternity hall-

way, often before the people themselves do.
This past week’s freshman website obsession
further prooves the point that W&L students have

u nothing better to do than gossip about and pre-judge

people based on petty rumor and predjudice.
While, granted, somesayings, pictures, etc. should
probablynotbeplacedpubliclyinacomrntmityas small

, asLexington,]hePhithir1l<sstudentsattlren1nnber

ﬁfteen-ranked lrberalarts institutioninthe countryoould
ﬁndsomethingbetterto dowiththeirtimethanobsess
over one person’s ﬁeedom of expression.

Thus: 2247 “hits” at print tirneup from mere hun-
dreds two days ago shows students should ﬁnd a new
hobby other than Internet character judgement.



Katie J. Howell
Matthew B. McDermott
Andrew A. Latimer
Imran Naeemullah
Catherine C. Guy
Jeremy Franklin
Dave Crowell

J eb Brooks

Paul Seifert
Thomas Worthy
Emily Barker
Henry Grimball

News Editor

Opinions Editor

Arts & Life Editor
Sports Editor

Asst. Sports Editor
Photo Editor

Business Manager
Asst. Business Manager
Advertising Production
Circulation Director

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee Univer-
sity, Lexington, Virginia. The Washington and Lee Publi-
cations Board elects the Editors in chief, but The Ring-
tum Phi is otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible submis-
sions and letters. All submissions must be e-mailed to
phi@wlu.edu or in the University Center mailbox by 5
p.m. Friday to appear in the following week’s edition. The
Ring-tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for con-
tent and length. Letters and columns do not necessarily
reﬂect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Ad-
vertising does not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi
or its staff. This newspaper observes current court defmi-
tions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Mailing Address: University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Street Address: 31 Washington Street
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Fax: (540) 462-4059
Email: phi@wlu.edu
http://phi.wlu.edu

Annual Subscription Rate: $35

THE. lilNG.—TUM Par

PINIONS
Liberal inanity thre

A recent edition of US. News and
World Report covers the issue of
hoaxes, and raises the question, Are
we more gullible in the information
age than we were a hundred years
ago? The answer is yes and no, but in
one sense, we as a people are cer-
tainly no less susceptible to inane
ideas than we ever were. Case in point:
events around the country and'the
world. The ridiculous is seemingly lim-
itless, but I will share with you a few
choice examples.

1) Certain morbidly obese indi-
viduals and their vulture-like trial law-
yers, fresh from their success against
the tobacco industry, are taking on
“Big Food” for knowingly serving a
product that could kill someone. The
lawsuit’s rationale is that since
McDonald’s, Burger King, Wendy’s,
and Kentucky Fried Chicken all serve
food that is obviously unhealthy, and
sell it at inexpensive prices using
catchy marketing, they are intention-
ally trying to sell vast quantities of a
lethal product. The plaintiffs fail to
realize one key point: even poor
people need to eat. Therefore, if the
only way to serve sizeable helpings
of food people enjoy (e.g., meat and
potatoes) at reasonable prices is in
hamburger and fries form, and if the
quickest and most efficient way of
cooking these is to deep fry them, then
the lawsuit has no merit. No fast food
restaurant accused in the lawsuit has
ever advertised itself
as being heart-healthy
or an alternative to
drinking Slim Fast all
day, so why should
they be forced to pay?

The only winners in this lawsuit
are greedy trial lawyers and senseless
liberals who will use this as yet an-
other precedent for destroying things
most people take for granted, whether
or not they are good for them. As John
Doyle of the Center for Consumer Free-
dom puts it, “(To win this suit, the plain-
tiffs must) convince ajury or a judge
that people are too stupid to feed them-
selves or their children. If people are
so stupid, should they be allowed to
vote or- go to work in the morning?”

 
  

   

RIGHT-WING RESPONSE
IMRAN NAEEMULLAH ‘05 Specifically,

  

ll\1R~\t’\INAEE1\lLIIAH
OPINIONS EDHOR
E.rur;NAEri»iurAH1@wrr.Er)u

1
1
1
i
1
1
1
1
l
1
1
1

ms Sanity
  Didvelthear 

2 A It's no joke.
He claims the food was too cheap so he ate too much?

Pnorocrxiirrm or WlWLCOi\llLll/HERFRIEDOM COM

Too HEAVY. As the Center for Consumer Freedom’s ad says, overweight people are
suing Big Food for causing their health problems and not watching out for them.

2) Robert Mugabe, dictator-for-
life of Zimbabwe, has taken in recent
months to reenacting the apartheid of
neighboring South Africa. This time,
however, the op-
pressed race is
white, not black.

Mugabe is seizing
the land owned by
white farmers, many of whom have in-
habited it all their lives, under the pre-
text of “racial equalization.” You see,
when Zimbabwe won its indepen-
dence from Great Britain in the l960’s,
most of the land was given to white
farmers. The reason at the time was
that the white farmers were the ones
who knew the best techniques and
could use the land most efficiently.
This is still the case, because since
independence, the (black-controlled)
government of Zimbabwe has consis-

tently failed to implement training pro-
grams for blacks to teach them how
to farm using modern techniques.
Despite their lack of knowledge,
Mugabe is seizing the land and giv-
ing it to these poorly trained farmers,
which will undoubtedly reduce food
output.

Forget about the rights of the
white farmers for the time being; what
about the famine that is currently en-
gulﬁng the country? Surely, with up
to half the population estimated to be
facing a food shortage, the last thing
Mugabe should be doing is reducing
his food supply. Perhaps the worst
thing about this all is that Mugabe is
not really helping the poor blacks,
since most of the land seized so far
has gone to cronies of Mugabe, army
generals and the like. Not exactly your

See INANITY, page 2

Democrats need to defeat Bush

Will this country ever be able to get the Bushes
out of power in Florida? Will Florida ever be able to
hold an election that is not the subject of vote recount-
ing controversy? Will the Bush family

ever be able to keep off the smack?

Who lcnows? But I do have to say
that Florida has been one naughty little boy.
So why is it so important to get J eb
Bush out of the gubernatorial seat in the
Sunshine State? Well, let us look at his claims and see
how they hold up to scrutiny. The GOP has been all over

celebrating the peninsula of orange juice as having the
lowest tax rate in ten years. The truth of the matter is
Florida was even harder hit by the economic fallout fol-

lowing September 1 1, seeing as so much

    

LEFT or CENTERF


of its money comes from tourism.

I don’t know about you, but when

your country has just been attacked by
an international terrorist organization,
dropping ﬁfty bucks for a day at Epcot
is not exactly my idea of a good time.

To characterize the feeling in Florida at that time, I’ll

Florida TV pulling hard for the Governor with more rolled borrow a line from The Orlando Sentinel. “During a boom-

dollar bill in his pocket than Andy Dick
(okay, all drug references aside... for
the moment).

A new ad claims that 400,000 new
jobs were created in the land of Mickey
under Bush. But were there bodies to
ﬁll them? The Bureau of Labor Statis-
tics report that under good old J eb,
unemployment has risen in God’s wait-
ing room by 14.3% while seasonally
adjusted unemployment has risen con-
sistently between 4-5% each year for
the last three years. Not as success-
ful as one would hope.

Republican Party ads also claim
that the state’s crime rate is at its low-
est in 29 years. Seemingly true, but
upon closer inspection, violent crimes
have become more frequent according
to reports from the Florida Department

of Law Enforcement. The murder rate is up nearly 1.5%, sex
offences their highest in ﬁve years, and robbery is up in
popularity for the ﬁrst time in more than a decade.

Not exactly J eb’s fault that people are misbehaving,
but with rates like these what can be down? Trafﬁc vio-
lations? This is clearly not the true success that the

GOP would have us believe it is.

And what is it about the Bush farnily’s inability to do
math? Or hire people that can do it for them? The GOP is

AWARD oF THE  Rep-Cynthia

    

Hiorocnbnrsvrrwuumrnami

    

Pnorocouirrrsyorurw/.c<xx1EcoM
CRYBABY. Janet Reno needs to stop

calling for a recount in Florida’s
primary and help the Democrats win.

ing economy, Bush cut taxes for the
wealthy, despite the recommendation
of economists who argued that he
should maintain a reserve fund in or-
der in the case of an economic down-
turn.”

Moreover, there is always the fun
of the drug problem. Just this past
week Governor Bush’s daughter
Noelle Bush was found to have crack
cocaine in her shoe by the workers at
her drug rehabilitation center.

The Miami Herald later reported
that Noelle Bush, 25, was not arrested
after a treatment center supervisor or-
dered the staff member who found the
drugs Monday night to rip up a sworn
statement and throw it away.

Police are still continuing this in-
vestigation. Neither the drug center

nor the Govemor’s office have commented any further
on the incident, but the police state they are curious as
to whether Noelle was given special treatment due to her
ties to her family. Personally, I doubt that this center
would want one of their best customers incarcerated.
So my advice to the Democratic Party is to tell

Janet Reno to shut up, stop counting chads and click-

win an election.

ing machines in Dade County, and get out there and

  
  

PAGE 3

University must
help to crackdown
0 dr riving

I’H<7rncoLnzrEn'or l¥’lW?’.F(XX;1J1(D.\!
NEVER AGAIN. Perhaps if the University reconsiders cermin
aspects of its sober driving policy, drunk driving accidents
may become a thing of the past.

Last year, student arrests for driving under the
inﬂuence (DUI) climbed to 20, despite the Safe Ride
and Traveller initiatives. Sober driving options were
offered in a streamlined system. DUIs don’t happen
because people
are inherently
bad; they just
happen because
people don’t make
a plan before they go out. However, a DUI is a seri-
ous crime that could result in personal injury or even
death. Here are three proposals that could help lower
the number of DUIs issued to W&L students.

1) Take away the parking passes of students
who are found guilty of drunken driving. Suspen-
sion of driving privileges is a common punishment
for DUI. Ideally, University sanctions should mir-
ror civil penalties in an effort to help students’ tran-
sition into the real world.

Since our governments have decided that driv-
ing privileges should be denied to those who can-
not drive responsibly, the university should sup-
port Virginia law by failing to accommodate those
who do not drive responsibly. If one had extenuat-
ing circumstances where a vehicle was necessary,
he or she could be given a freshman sticker to be
used for the rest of the probationary period to be
decided by the SJC.

2) Increased vigilance concerning sober driver
requirements at parties. Most students probably
do not want to drive while drunk. In fact, most DUIs
probably occur as a result of a poorly planned party
night. A designated driver should be identified be-
fore one goes out to party.

One of the negative effects of the University
Initiatives on Substance Abuse is the increasing
popularity of off-campus parties. Thus, the Uni-
versity should encourage students to register all
off-campus parties so that Traveller and other
“safety nets” can effectively respond, and strictly
enforce the mandatory sober drivers for on-cam-
pus parties.

3) Provide student-driven vans for Traveller.
There are many students that would gladly drive
vans for Traveller. Vans would be more efficient as
they could transport more people.

Vans would also allow students without ve-
hicles to volunteer to drive. If vans were pro-
vided, I think many more volunteer drivers (in-
cluding myself) would be available. However,
when one has to provide his vehicle, liability is-
sues loom large.

Also, if some drunken person vomits in
another’s car, that person has no way of restoring
his vehicle. I seriously doubt that any insurer would
want to be “the first line of defense” in case of a
Traveller—related claim and premiums would un-
doubtedly rise. If the university is serious about
encouraging this program, they should provide op-
portunities for as many people to share the respon-
sibility as possible.

The increase in DUIs probably resulted from
the increase in country parties. Although not ev-
eryone agrees with the University Initiatives on
Substance Abuse, they are probably here to stay.
Thus, we have to find a way to make country par-
ties less dangerous. Having a plan is the best way
to do so.

Identifying a designated driver, limiting al-
cohol intake, and watching out for friends is the
best way to prevent problems. However, students
will occasionally consume too much alcohol.
Thus, we must have effective safety nets that
will promote safety, personal responsibility, and
preserve dignity.

Limiting liability (as I think is being done when
an individual’s insurance company is “the first line
of defense”) should not be a priority. After all, no
one wants to have a DUI on his or her record.


<>N_A:HEsW@EiEliﬂ4

McKinney(D- 

 

Five-terrn Congresswoman Cynthia McKinney lost the Aug. 22 Democratic primary in Georgia, and with it,

her seat in the U.S. House of Representatives. When asked about her loss, McKinney pointed to the large amounts
of money that pro-Israel groups raised for her opponent. Her father, William McKinney, was even more outspo-
ken: “Jews have bought everybody. Jews. J-E-W-S.” Better reasons than a Jewish conspiracy may be ascribed to
her defeat. In 1991, McKinney made a pro-Iraq speech, whose anti-American themes caused many fellow Con-
gressmen to quit the chamber. More recently, McKinney criticized American foreign policy in a letter begging for
money from Saudi Arabian Prince Alwaleed bin Talal. Bin Talal had previously offered ten million dollars along
with a screed blaming the attack on the World Trade Center on America’s policy toward Israel. New York Mayor
Rudy Giuliani refused it. McKinney’s defeat was motivated by her attempt to purchase domestic political support
at the price of American foreign policy. Good riddance.

 

 

    

PAGE 4

INANITY: liberalism

INANITY, from page 3

 

 

INTERNATIONAL MENACE. Robert Mugabe, aracdilsqilgxcgtv/(iii:/conecﬁt
caticaturized as sucking the life out of his country’s poor.

typical or ideal farmers. Mugabe would be well advised to take
pointers from Nelson Mandela, who, after the liberation of South
Afiica, pleaded with educated whites not to ﬂee the country be-
cause its survival largely depended on their expertise not only to
train the black populace, but to keep the country running.

3) Saddam Husseir1’s sympathizers, who include U.N. Secu-
rity Council members China and Russia, are urging t.he United
States nottoactunilaterallyagainstIraq,butinstead, go through
the U.N. Of course, this is not to say that they merely want to
rubber stamp the process; rather, they do not want the U.S. to
invade because they have signiﬁcant ﬁnancial prospects at risk in
Iraq, namely, oil. President Bush has done them a favor (and
showed his commitment to involving the rest of the world in the
war on terror) by delivering a forceful speech to the U.N. this past
Thursday. The president made it very obvious: Iraq must either
immediately change its ways orface swiftand devastatingmilitary
action.

He certainly gave more than ample proof, citing, for ex-
ample, the fact that Saddam has ﬂagrantly violated U.N. resolu-
tions no less than sixteen times since the Gulf War. Why, then,
are other nations resisting by using the U.N. approach, which
will enable thernto veto war orat least support it but on their own
terms? Clearly, selﬁsh interests motivate them as is the case with
China and Russia. While I applaud President Bush ’s good faith
demonstration by going to the U.N., I certainly hope he will not
hesitate to act unilaterally should the rest of the world (save for
Great Britain) choose to act selﬁshly. Judging by his words and
actions so far, he will again prove his mettle.

4) The latest Florida election controversy is a sickening
example of political posturing. Having narrowly lost the Demo-
cratic primary election for governor ofFlorida, fonnerAttomey
General Janet Reno is attempting to get the votes in Miami-Dade
county recounted in the hope that she will be declared the win-
ner. However, the rest ofher party (including her opponent, Bill
McBride) are clamoring for her to stop calling for a recount, and
accept the election results as they stand. Funny, how when
dealing with their own, the Democrats are more than willing to
overlook a potential voting error, yet when faced with the pros-
pect of a Republican’s legitimately winning an election, they run
and scream and call foul play. Not only that, but there still exist
many liberals who contend that despite his obvious compe-
tence and honorable service to the country so far, George W
Bush is still an ‘illegitirnate’president. It’s irritating and childish,
yet we can take comfort in knowing that at any rate, Florida is
better off by not having Janet Reno as a potential governor.

While life is probably less interesting without the ludi-
crous, it would certainly help a great deal of people if the
above cases were to be righted. Here’s to hoping some good
comes about, and soon.

 


Letters to the Editor

Student locker facilities a disgrace

Dear Editor,

As a senior woman at Washington and Lee, I was
immensely thrilled upon returning to campus to discover
our new ﬁtness center. Like many students in our com-
munity, I belonged to Omega Fitness Center last year
because I believed the facilities at Washington and Lee
were inadequate for my exercise needs.

Since the new ﬁtness center opened on August 22, I
have visited it nearly every day and have been duly im-
pressed. Many of my fellow students with whom I have
spoken agree that both the quality and quantity of new
equipment is superb. The attendants are eager and help-
ful; the facility is clean and well kept. Thanks to dona-
tions and alumni contributions, the students, staff and
faculty that comprise the Washington and Lee commu-
nity are allowed access to this wonderﬁil facility. This
year, rather than join a ﬁtness center in town, my friends
and I prefer to workout together on our own campus free
of additional charges,

In addition to creating the new ﬁtness center, Wash-
ington and Lee also constructed new and improved locker
rooms equipped with air conditioning and a plethora of
lockers. Students, however, are unfortunately excluded
from the use of these locker room facilities; whereas, fac-
ulty and staff are admitted. I believe the students of
Washington and Lee are being treated unfairly. Wash-
ington and Lee spent a great deal of money on these
locker rooms from which the students of our community
are inappropriately banned. Furthermore, the grungy,
moldy, completely unkempt locker rooms the students
are forced to use, have not been revamped.

We, the students of Washington and Lee, are ma-
ture adults. We deserve the full use of all of the new
exercise facilities constructed for the use of the Wash-
ington and Lee community. After all, if the faculty, staff,
and students can workout and get sweaty together in
the same area, what reasonable basis can there be for the
same individuals not to be able to share the new facilities
where they can clean up after their exercise activities.
Under the present conditions, it would be an embarrass-
ment to our University if alumni were forced to use the
old locker rooms, which are dank, steamy and feature
standing water, and which are a far cry from the high
level attention and detail spent on making the new ﬁt-
ness center and faculty/ staff locker rooms.

I ask each student to contact our new ﬁtness center
and ﬁle a verbal or written complaint against this unfair
treatment we are being shown. I trust that, if a signiﬁcant
number of us complain about being excluded from the
new locker rooms, our university will quickly change this
policy. To segregate the students from the rest of the
community is unjust, and this type of exclusionary policy
does not reﬂect the values that come to my mind when I
think of Washington and Lee.

Sincerely,
Emery Ordernann ‘03

New commons should include a post ofﬁce

Dear Editor,

I am an alumnus of Washington and Lee, Class of
’45, who chose to return to the area in later years. I reside
just over the city line in Rockbridge County. A few months
ago I dispatched a letter to the Mayor of Lexington con-
taining remarks conceming the local post ofﬁce similar
to those that follow. I indicated I was not in his constitu-
ency. However, the post ofﬁcer serves a wide area. I also
indicated I was surprised the local weekly newspaper
had not picked dup on the visible problems. I left a copy
of my letter to the mayor at the publisher ’s officer, just a
block from the post ofﬁce, with no forthcoming reaction.

My letter expressed concern about the location of
the post ofﬁce, parking problems, lack of access to the
outside mail drop, and often long lines at two windows
for service, etc. However, my main purpose in writing the
letter was to strongly urge a sub-post ofﬁce on the W&L
campus incorporated within present new construction
to alleviate what can only get worse. Complaints about

The Phi
congratulates its
journalist
colleagues at
WLUR on the
, reopening of the
station. We wish
them luck in their
endeavors.

Spring Break 2003 with STS
Americas #1 Student Tour
Operator
Sell Trips cam cash Travel Free
Infomration/Reservations
1-800-648-4849 or
www.ststravel.com

 

Grand Opening September 23-28

W&L Faculty and Staff

Daily Specials
Monday 25 % off T-shirts

   

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 16, 2002‘

the local post office are oﬁen heard. However, service at
the two windows is normally courteous as personnel
contend with the pressures and periodic chaos.

I am sure the local post ofﬁce is pressed for space.
Most colleges I know have postal service for students
oﬁen located near dining, snack, and bookstore facili-
ties. VMI obviously has such campus service. It’s unfor-
tunate the post ofﬁce is in the location it occupies. I was
told by one official that city and Washington and Lee
officials had discussed the matter, but had opted to stay
as is. I was told that the post ofﬁce provided an impor-
tant contact between students and the general public. I
was also told it helped nearby downtown merchants gain
customers. I was somewhat surprised by what I consid-
ered thing reasoning.

I provide this letter to you wondering how students
would react. Maybe my overall reasoning is thin!

Sincerely,
E. Dean Finney ‘45

Diversity initiatives need strengthening

Dearliditor,
I am one of the facilitators who led discussions of the
video Skin Deep for freshmen during orientation.. I wish to
address the negative reactions I witnessed, and to ask the
ﬁeshmen to take the leadership role in helping to make future
diversity orientations for freshmen more meaningﬁil.

As a result of several racist incidents a couple of years
ago, W&L needed to take a strong stand in order to continue
to attract and retain quality students. One such effort towards
takingastandwas training 18 studentspriortofalltermof2000
to present Anti-Defarnation League materials. I had the privi-
lege of participating with that group in 40 hours of training in
diversity issues and facilitation skills. The ADL facilitatorteam
then presented workshops during freslnnan orientation. We,
not unexpectedly, were the target of criti-
cism ﬁom ﬁeshmen who felt that the exer-
cise was awaste of time. However, we con-
tinued to work with various campus
groups on request.

This year, the video Skin Deep was
chosen to be the jumping point of discus-
sion. I am not familiar with the particulars
of how the video came to be selected, but
I agreed in principle with the narrower fo-

diversity. In the space of two hours with
the freshmen, we simply could not get very
far beyond the top introductory layers of
diversity education if we encompassed all

of diversity as a whole. We have in o11r
arsenal a really powerful video that truly stimulates the intel-

lect. However, we cannot jurrrp to that level immediately; we

have to start with less threatening exercises that build enough

participant harmony and trust so that discussions remain safe

and useful. We also have to present exercises that engage

participant interest and help them feel that they have a stake in

the discussion. When we are lirrrited to the introductory mate-

rial by time and thus do not reach the deeper levels, we do run

into the danger of seeming superﬁcial. Nevertheless, the intro-

ductory rnaterial by itselfcan be useful.

VV1th Skin Deep, we were able to explore in greater depth
one aspect of diversity, allowing us to explore the the topic of
racism, and by extension diversity, more meaningﬁilly. I tried to
help all segments of students in my own group of ﬁeshmen
feel acknowledged by explaining that we realize diversity is
about more than racial differences but we simply could not
give all such aspects meaningful treatment in a short amount
oftime. Intruth, we were still only able to scratch the surface of
racism.

However, as a freslnrran orientation activity, the discus-
sion was not intended to provide a complete course in racism.
Rather, it was intended to provoke thought about the subject
and encourage freshmen to incorporate these issues into their
studies in the next four years. It also was intended to create a
level of awareness that a variety of cultures converge on cam-
pus when a ﬁeshman class is formed. We needed to help avert

If diversity education was planned
for some other point in the year,
with adequate time alloted for
deeper reﬂection, it might seem
much more relevant to the

freshman who has lived for several
°l1S°I1fa9iSmthan1he20001°°°US0na110f months in the dormitories and has

in his or her classes explored
cultural topics.

as simple as it may ﬁrst seem. With these goals, we probably
seemed to many a silly “love your neighbor and let’s all get
along’ ChOI'l1S. We are in fact far from idealistic. We know

5

people will dislike each other, roomates will ﬁght, and so on We ~

simply bring to you a perspective from which conﬂicts may be
viewed Ifa conﬂict arises, awareness of possible roots in cul-
tural differences may lead to a resolution. We also represent a
sincere, as opposed to a politically conect token, effort from
the administration to address problems that we know exist on
campus. We are, after all, not immune from problems in the
world as a whole that have their roots in intolerance. Further-
more, we hope that students leave Washington and Lee truly
able to handle the world at large, and that includes having
diversity skills.

In particular, we hope for Washington and Lee commu-
nity members to understand that many diversity-related prob-
lerns are unconscious in nature. I heard many freshman claim
that little racism and such exists today in the world I heard
ﬁeshmen claim it is a simple nranner for us to all get along on
campus. It was not my role as a facilitator to preach; thus I
deliberately kept my responses to those comments brief and
geared toward bringing more student viewpoints into the con-
versation. Here I wish to offer a more extended view Certainly,
there may be fewer overt incidents of racism We are thankfully
more tolerant as a society of racial difference than we were in

11

J

the Jim Crow days. However, we as humans seem to have a I

psychological tendency to put people into categories, and
much of this happens without much awareness on our part.
While not all categorizing is bad, some of it may lead to inter-
personal conﬂict. We need to become aware of the conﬂict-
causing categorizing we do, much of which is detennined by a
combination of familial and societal programming. We are not
threatening anyone with a label of “racist”; accusation and
blame is not the point of diversity education.

However lofty and commendable our diversity educa-

tion goals may be, perhaps the freslnnen are right that we are I

not going about this in the best manner. Perhaps freshman
orientation is not the best time for this sort
of exercise. Placed among the potpourri of
requiredpresentations, and with limited time,
such exercises will oﬁen appear to fresh-
men as a token to multiculturalism, a chance
for the administration to preach a set of feel-
good values to the newcomers that “of
course everyone knows”. If diversity edu-
cation was plarmed for some other point in
the year, with adequate time alloted for
deeper reﬂection, it might seem much more
relevant to the freshman who has lived for
several months in the dormitories and has
in his or her classes explored cultural top-
rcs.

Unfortunately, it is our experience that
voluntary discussions are not well-attended, and often we
wind up preaching to the choir instead of reaching students
who have not given much thought to these issues. If we
wished to truly make a difference, attendence would have to
required at that event later in the year. Perhaps it is still pru-
dent to have a discussion during orientation so that ﬂesh-
rfren are prepared for the culture clashes. Perhaps diversity
education should just be built into the curriculum and not
discussed as a separate designated event to avoid the ap-
pearance of “token-ness”. I don’t know the right way to go
about this. I challenge the freshmen who felt that this year’s
format was a waste of time and “fake”- I overheard the phrase
“ a piece of crap”- to think about what would be a better and
more meaningful approach and to bring those suggestions
to the attention of administration and facilitators.

In this vein, I must warn that many ofthe original 18
facilitators have since graduated. My class, which will gradu-
ate in June, contains the last of the facilitators. We have
learned many facilitation skills from the ADL training that
enable us to work with any discussion, regardless of whether
or not we are using ADL exercises. We will need to ensure
that the skills are passed on to future classes. It will be up to
this year’s freshmen, sophomores, and juniors to guide the
ﬁiture of peer-led diversity education at this university. Please
rise to the challenge.

25% off entire purchase
Tuesday 25% off Hats and Visors
Wednesday 25% off Sweatshirts
Thursday 25% off Shorts and Long Pants
Friday 25% off Jackets
Saturday 25% off Golf and Oxford Shirts

Register to VI/in Nickle Creek Tickets
Theater at Lime Kiln Saturday, October 5

15 W. Washington St.
464-3000

problems of culture clash by making freshmen aware that dif- Sincerely,
ferences do exist and that respect for those differences is not Julie Fitzer ‘03 1 '
i
i
Let Us Cater Your Next Fraternity Party Or Tailgate ,,
On Our Premises Or At The Location Of Your Choice
With A Customized Menu To Fit Your Budget!
Call Us For Our 5 Foot Italian Sub!!! Dinner Entrees for Small and Large Groups: '
Available In Vegetarian Or Meat Veggi Lasagna

With Your Choice Of Ingredients: Half Tray (serves 8-10) $29.95

Fresh Mozzerella Full Tray (serves 18-20) $55.95
Provolone Baked Ziti 5

Cheddar Cheese Half Tray (serves 8-10) $25.95

Prosciutto Full Tray (serves 18-20) $45.95

Capicolla Eggplant Parrnigiana

Soppressata Half Tray (serves 8-10) $29.95

Salami Full Tray (serves 18-20) $55.95 '
Ham Sausage Pepper

Mortadella Half Tray (serves 8-10) $31.95

Turkey Full Tray (serves 18-20) $59.95
Grilled Zucchini Salad I

Roasted Red Peppers Half Tray (serves 8-10) $14.95

Marinated Mushrooms Full Tray (serves 18-20) $27.95

Marinated Artichoke Penne Vodka

Red Onion Half Tray (serves 8-10) $25.95

Lettuce Tomato Full Tray (serves 18-20) $45.95 5*
Our Own Pesto Spread or Mayo
*One Week Notice is Needed For All Sub Orders
Serving Sunday Brunch Buffet From 11:30-2:30 All You Can Eat: $9.95
Call us at 540-464-5500 ,
Banquet Facilities On Premises Up To 200 People

A

D

I

I

 

 

IIII3 RlNG—’fUt\l PI

TAGE 5

Freshman class
learns Its ABCS

BY LISA BARITTA
sTAI~'I«‘ WRITER
1

I used to wake—up to my favorite
radio station. Now, I wake up instead
to the horrendous screeching of
construction equipment‘ immediately

‘outside my window.

After only being here for a couple
of weeks, I have already learned that
adjustment is key to making it in this “real

“world” setting. The living arrangements,
added freedoms, and overall lifestyle are
clearly established in preparation for the
future and are unlike anything we
freshmen have ever before experienced.

‘ Along with all the different buildings,
the people here are as diverse as I have
ever seen, in values, preferences,
ethnicities, and talents. As a result, some

‘ people are in the throes of culture shock.

starting the real work, and I think most
of the freshmen are still realizing the
magnitude of their classes. For the first
time, every professor is exceptionally
knowledgeable in his or her subject;
some of them even go to the extreme
of writing the book for their course. It

is time to stop sleeping through class,‘

crack open that hundred dollar book,
and prepare for a future in which we
will no longer be able to “swipe it
home.”

The first weeks ofbeirrg a college
freshman is entirely overwhehning in
every aspect, especially at a university
where traditions are strictly laid as the
foundation. I ﬁnd myself learning
something new everyday, including
the Greek Alphabet. “Dubyanell” is
rightﬁ1l1yranked#1forGreeklife. One
would be amazed at the number of

“Coming to phone calls to
W&L from New freshman dorms
Yorkis like taking ADJUSTMENT IS THE KEY d u r i n g

' ' orientation
‘:d1111rII)tf§. aI‘tf(s:ee1r%i: “TO MAKING 1: IN THIS week. It turns
like everyone here REAL WORLD SETTING out that the
has aTexas ﬂag, a upperclassmen

bright pink polo
,1 shirt, and plaid shorts,” said freshman
Kate Zawyrucha.

Upon first setting foot onto
W&L’s beautiful campus, everyone
was immediately friendly and helpful

‘ in enduring the ever-exciting activity
of “unloading the van.” After a week
of orientation activities ranging from
speeches from administration to
discussions about substance abuse,
I gathered that most freshmen were
ready to do at least one if not all of
the following: get started with the real
college life, party hard, or borrow

it President Burrish’s plaid jacket.

“Freshman Orientation is like WLU
on crack. It’s everything that is amazing
about WLU jammed together into one
week,” said freshman Jenny Scott.

Along with starting college comes _

have had “the
face book” since before move-in day.

“ .......... ..Party. . .<cough>. . .,”
was all that ﬁeshman Paul Pennell had
to say on W&L’s ‘extracurriculars’.

Coming to a school renowned
for both academics and “lots of beer
and hard liquor,” it is hard to know
just what to expect. It is rumored
that this years’ freshman class is
one of the brightest and talented
that W&L has seen in awhile; let’s
hope we all learn time management
skills. High expectations are held
above our heads, or so we were told
throughout orientation week. I
guess it will all come together
through experience.

I mean, who needs sleep
anyway? “A is for academics, B is
for beer, both of those reasons are
why we are here!” Anonymous.

Life is good...

write for the  Mondays at 5

 

RTS Br IE

BY TRAN KIM
sTAI~‘I«' WRITER

The Lexington community now moves to a
dilferent beat with the emergence of a new West Aﬁican
drum and dance group. Taught by Laura Rich and
Terrance Henderson respectively, these classes will meet
for one Saturday every month through fall term.

Organized by local resident Mirabai McCleod,
and coordinated through the Dean of Students Office,
this project initially began as a whimsical desire from
Senior Medhanite Tekle who simply wanted to learn
African dancing techniques. W&L funds the program
to allow students to take the classes free of charge
while W&L employees and their family members pay
a $10 fee and non-W&L participants pay a $20 fee.

Each Saturday morning from 10- l 2,
participants beat various rhythms on the genuine
African drums provided by Rich. From 1:30-2, a
children’s drum class is held at $2.50 for W&L
children and $5 for non-W&L children. Then from
2-4, participants are led by Henderson in the
movements of traditional West African dances.

Held in the srriall gym in Doremus, participants
in theAﬁican Drum class learn three different striking
techniques called a base, tone, and slap, which are
used to create the various rhythms on a diernbe, or
standing, drum. A base is made by striking the
center of the drum head and removing it quickly to
allow for a deep resonance. A tone strike is created
by swiftly tapping the edge of the drum. Slaps are
made by striking the drum edge with the tips of the
ﬁngers while the heel of the hand hits the rim.
Students also had a chance to play the various
horizontal drums called the kenkeni, the sangban,
and the doundoun. These drums are struck using a

 

 

 

Drums sound

C:\’l’HE.RlNE C. GIT
ARIS&LIIE EDITOR
FIIIAII.-<;IYr@\RIIII§DI‘

 

wooden drum stick and hold a Guinea bell on top
that struck simultaneously with the drums.

For first-timers, playing can be a challenge due
to the intricate rhythmic patterns. Also, the repeated
hand strikes can be quite painful. However with
practice, Rich says the pain will diminish while the
rhythms become intuitive. “The secret to playing
the drum is to enjoy it,” Rich said.

While enjoyment is also crucial to African
dancing, the key is to let go. Henderson explains,
“[African dancing] comprises of very natural
movements inspired by natural organic stuff.” Unlike
ballet, tap, and other forms of popular dance that
focus on intricate choreography and ﬂexibility, the
emphasis in African dance lies more on movements
natural to the body and inherent to everyday life.
More happens when you let go,” Henderson said.

Senior Patrice Wedderburn attests to the importance
of moving naturally. She said, “It was an amazing
experience. I felt in touch with my body and it was very
natural. You just go with the rhythm of the music.”

The class began with a series of warmup exercises
to stretch the entire body to make it more conducive to
the dance movements. For half an hour, participants
stretched body parts ranging from the ankles to their
ribcages to their shoulders. After warming up, students
learned various dance steps I J

These movements involved leaps, hand motions,
and hip thrusts, among others. Though students learn
particular steps, these steps are meant to be modiﬁed by
each dancer to suit his or her mood and interpretation of
the drum beats. The emphasis is placed on feeling the
beatsratherthanondancingthe stepsinapreciserriamier.

Both Rich and Henderson bring artistic traditions
that have endured for hundreds of years. These classes
enable them to share a unique and interesting history

‘Mom, SEPTEMBER 16, 2002

   

I jLIST WANT To BANG ON THE DRLM ALL DAY: Top: The
West African drum class learns to play. Bottom:
Professor Wﬂson shows off his new skills.

of a culture which they respect and embrace. For the
Lexington community, it is an opportunity to expand
its cultural horizons and experience a little bit of a part
of the world about which little is known.

The next class will be held on Saturday, October
5. Everyone is welcome to join and no experience is
necessary. If interested, please contact Miraibai
McCleod at 540-462-1760 or rr1irabai@lycos.com.

 

  
   

 

 

   

  
 
  
  

 

C 0
~  Spanish House begins the ﬁestas
BY I\l.IiTIIE\I= IVICDERMOTT 7 3 
EDlTOR—l.\'—CHEIl’
I FAST FRIENDS. Sophomores I
Melissa Talbert and Caitlin The Spanish House holds twice weekly dinners in the Dining 3
Hagan are among the few who Hall. Attendance at the “Mesa hispanica,” or Spanish table, is
braved the inclement Weather to strongly recommended for members of the house.
. ﬂ enjoy Satuday’s tailgate. -“We decided that everyone had to eat, so it was a good place to
' practice Spanish,” said senior Heather Knorr, Resident Advisor for
the Spanish House.
The reserved table is located at the rear of the D-Hall, and opens
at six o’clock.
is ‘ On Sundays, students
(SOCIAL PROGRAMo WILL) can bring their own food
CREATE AN ENVIRONIVTENT to the Spanish house, and
IN WHICH SPANISH HOUSE share an 8:00 pm supper
A RESIDENTS AND NON— Wlth resldente 
RESIDENTS MAY PRACTICE we3{“:heV;::3;e:£1j’}'1osi IEE BRooI;x‘/ T/JR Rm I/IIP/J1.
— : BENVENUT ~~ .2 ‘!ThS ‘hH.,l d IEA;
SIGN OF THE TIMES. ThOSC E  .  Cooking lessons‘ tlie  IS h:I'I1:a:::. I'1C\C7:7u::Og)CC;:F:l‘l.1cC)l:I'1tSE.: V6 In
naughty Cadavers again leave 0 N PRE5sURE_FREE’ ‘We have Stljdents from
4. their calling throughout Campus GRADE‘FREE REALM-  (Werlne ‘:l:°nd1nrr1e(SP3r1' “We didn’t warrtto compete with (the Fihn Society’s) movies,” Knorr said
PROF . ELLEN MAYO CK 1311) H011Se, She Saki ‘There “So students can see our movie on Friday, and see the other one on Saturday.”
are lots oroppornnnnles-” These social programs have many goals. One is “to create an
The ﬁrst Cooking night is Sept 25 - The next is oer 30- Both environment in which Spanish House residents and non-residents
b ‘, begin at 6300 Prn- may practice their language skills and interact in a natural way in a
Programming does not reVolVe 5o1e1Y around rood- On alternate pressure-free, grade-free realm,” said Spanish Professor Ellen Mayock.
Fridays, at 8 Pm, the Spanish nouse Win Soreen rnoVre5~ Speaking Spanish is mandatory in all common areas of the Span-
—»—v~ —4»4» — —~ 4- ish House, which includes its kitchen and living and dining rooms.
HOME BASE. No longer a futon outlet, “Some professors will probably give extra credit,” Knorr said.
VI Nelson and Randolph Streets stands the TUEg1),\y_g, THUMDAYS; Weekly dinners at the D-Ha11 Mayock, who is currently on sabbatical, agrees. ' I
campaign headquarters of Ben Cline, \y/EDNESDAYS, monthly Cooking lessons at the Spanish House “In the future, I’ll certainly award extra credit to beginning and
Republican candidate for the sixth district FRIDAYS, bmnomhly movies at the Spanish House intclelrrnlfcliate students who devote time to the House,” Mayock saidci
of the Virginia House of Delegates. Cline S ,  . h S . h H “I’ li e y assume that my upper-level students are getting involve
‘ is runnin' g against Democratic candidate UM)“ 5' Weekly dinners at t 6 paws Ouse out of sheer desire and enthusiasm, rather than for extra credit.”
Mimi Elrod. _ 9 _/kn h 1 d The residents of this year’s Spanish house are Mateo Caballero,
J qmmom em” on @W u‘ C u Rosine Kouamer1,Arnina Elgouacem, DiyaVohra, Vicky Stanharn, Heather
“MTTTTTTF "" ”‘* Knorr, Maria Eu enia Games, Kaela Harmon and Ina Ceselinova.
g
2 ' LOCAL CINEMA VALLEY VIEW GRANDE
exl n g  n 200 w. Main, Charlottesville Austin Powers- 2:45, 5; 10, 7:45, 10:15 O a n 0 e
Barbershop-1:15 3:35 6:45 9:15 . .
. . I ’ ’ .’ Road to Perdition- 1, 6:30
THE TROUBADOUR ‘The Good Girl- 2.30, 4.45, 7245,10 Blue Crush-2:15,4:45, 7:30, 10:05 SeW1.ngSara_2:30 5:15 7:45 10:10
# 9 /20_ In the Bedmom_ 7.30 My Big Fat Greek Wedding-2:45, 5, 7:30, 9:45 Citybythe Sea- l:45,4:l5,6:50,9:25 SignS_ 1_ 15 4 7_40 16
V 9/21_Inthe BedI00m_ 7.30 OneIIIourPhoto-12A:f155,44:630,7,9:15 :<}¢lardotcom- 2:35, 5,7:25,9:50 Spy  2_’1_’4(i 3f55 7 9.20
 - 0SSeSS10n— : , , 245,9 e Good Girl- 2,4235, 7, 9:45 . ' ’ : ’ _’ " . . .
 ‘ - Tee STATE‘ Road to Perdition- 1:45,4:15 6:45, 9:30 TheMasterofDisguise—2:45,5,7:25,9:45 Ste?lmgHWd-1-10:3-4597-1°=9-3°
City by the Sea-7:10 ’ u _ , Swimfan- l:30,3:30,7:05,9:l0
a I n . . One Hour Photo-2, 4.20, 7.20, 10 .
-‘- My Blg Fat Gfeekweddmg 7:15 a r 0 e I e Possession— 2:40 5' 10 7'30 10' 10 Und1Sputed_3:30’ 9:15
Signs- 7:00 ' ’ ' ’ ' ’ ' XXX- 1, 3:40, 6:50, 9:30

 

 

  Review.

PAGE 6

 
 

 

W;-r;i:_\i 

RTS & LIEE

travel through

time in the Pink Cadillac

BY MCQUEEN CALVERT
STAFF WRITER

Just a short 10 minute drive up Highway 1 1, past the

V. Lexington City limit takes you back 5 decades to the 50’s

diner known as the Pink Cadillac.
It can be spotted from over a mile away, due

. to its cheery facade of bright pink paint and 50’s

signs.
The interior is filled with Rock ’n’ Roll

«paraphernalia and Elvis memorabilia with plenty of

classic tunes in the background from all of our favorite
Oldies bands. _

The menu has a decent array of food choices,
but I would recommend a simple hamburger. This
seems to be the most popular item on the list, served
with French fries, which are excellent. Most of the

THE. KING. Elvis (inset) and his pink Cadillac.

other items on the menu are decent in taste, but for a
good ‘old burger, this is the place in Lexington to
visit.

The service is not spectacular, but the environment is
deﬁnitely impressive. For instance, there is even a separate
ice cream parlor type area for those craving the vast
selection of desserts.

For a weekend dinner, this is a great place to go if
you have transportation and if the other eateries in the
limited walking distance are getting to become too
repetitive.

Next time you and your friends decide to dine
out, instead of insisting on returning to the always
popular Salernos for the twentieth time, try the Pink
Cadillac.

Elvis will be waiting.

}Ul(“$(lX,ll(IESY()l7WUWiL1ll\“]-ilI\'H{>i(JIK)3\J,.‘\\l)li()\il1'il'DJEl'/lAl{l§m(C-\Dlll ALHli\ll.

Lexington. Virginia

 Fri., September 20

7:30 pm.

Slaid is,“...one of the finest

' I psingemongwriters from Texas.”

NY Times

 463-3074

     wwwmsnremrume tuna

DOUBLE STUDENT DISCOUNT-

Take 530 oifthe regular firstjump
price with this ad until May 2003i

 

(540) 943-6587 or

1 (877) 348-3759

(877) DIVE-SKY

- Best Aircraft

‘ - M031: complete Instructional program-

‘ Fastest growing skydiving center on the East coast because:

our Twin Engine Turbine Aircraft safety carries 22 Jumpers over 13,000‘

Others claim to use It, but we use the official USPA training program to the fullest since It was

‘ developed here at Skyciiveorange for the United States Parachute Association.

- - Our equipment-

- we have the experience! -

Compare our equipment to other Drop Zone's- Our parachute: are 100% equipped with state ofthe art
CYPRES Automatic Activation back up devices, others use cheaper one: to save money.

i No other Virginia Drop Zone routinely puts up over 300,|umps most Saturdays, sometimes over 400
7 jumps a day. We are doing over 17,000 jumps iyear here at Virginia's skycii

 
 

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 16, 2002'

Happy Birthday, Dave Croweill i
From your friends 2 1
At the Phi!
‘I

New \7c:2iirl?*iU'nii?‘éE‘§ity iii*§tii.li1él yeea‘a*rae§aeW;?a“E«s

    
  
   
 

a 4    pa...  

New York Uméve-airy is an affimmsi action/aqua! eopoztunity instimeiaac

For more irsformationt www.nymedulabroadlgiobai
Tel: 212.993.4433; E-mail: studyabroad@nyu.e<;§u

   

ving center, Skydive Orane.

 

.;~,.:._.,..,,,___ . ._ ._ .-
I
 °
-;_‘-:5:
I \

U

  

ringserrd

WWV".ringsendmusic.con

  @Javainthe G.H.Q.   .

—   ‘Monday, 09.16.02, 9PM   i

 

 

 

    
 

"I
.llﬁ'lll.~;\l\'l"‘l{»\.?\‘=l\'l.lT\’
S1oiusIli>rit>it

,, Emil.’l'lt-t\l§l_l?vl@?\illIlJ)tI

 ilh.s.<.j: in

M(.)Nl).~l‘r', Sl§l”l'l.i..\—IBl3R I6, 2002

 op km
Blue Jays score in final

r minute, OT to hand Will a
loss to open 2002 season

injrziuzin‘ FRANKLIN
>7l’Oll'l'S l€i)lT('ill

ﬁ.

Senior quarterback Rob Femand

threw a game-tying touchdown pass

A with 15 seconds left in regulation and

then scored on a l-yard touchdown

run in overtime to lead Johns

Hopkins over Washington. and Lee

I 21-14 in the season opener Saturday
, at Wilson Field.

W&L senior tailback Chris Sullivan
 rushed 33 times for 152 yards and a
, score for the Generals. Though

‘Sullivan was disappointed, he said
, that next. week’s game at Guilford ~-
7 W&’L’s Old Dominion Athletic Con-

I ference opener ---~ will take the Gener-

. als’ minds off of the loss.

“With this being the first game,

" you always want to open the season

with a win." Sullivan said. “It’s a dis-

appointment, but in another sense it

it‘ is non-conference. so we haven’t put

I ourselves back, We just got :1 learn-
. ing experience, basically.”

" F ernand ﬁnished l‘)~of-34 for 239

yards, but he earned the chance to be
. the hero almost by accident. The se-
; nior Blue Jay was pulled in the third
quarter after throwing three intercep-
tions, including two to junior Ted

BY MICHAEL Liar:
u>orui;< \‘t’lll‘l‘l:‘.ll

Snyder hel o s W&L athletes hal

Afternoon creeps across the

Washington and Lee campus. As stu-

1 dents attend their late classes, the

ttniver.si.ty's sports teams take to the

it practice ﬁelds. With the brutal colli-
sions of helmets, the clash of sticks

and the pounding of the turﬂ the Gen-

‘ crals prepare for battle each day, with

one-unfortunately inevitable result: I

injuries.
Alas. in the ferocity of their prac-
,; tice and games, W&L athletes do get
beaten up. Luckily. expert help is there
to help prevent and heal those inju-
ries -— in the athletics training room,
run. by Head Athletic Trainer Holly

8‘ Snyder.

“The injuries we see around here
are the same that you’ll see at any
Division I school,” Snyder said. “The

3 only difference here is that we don‘t
have quite the same caliber of athletes.
They’rc workingjust as hard, though,
and that means they’ll get hurtjust as

I much.”

‘ Snyder attended Indiana Univer-

. sity for her undergraduate work, at-
taining her bachelor of science degree
there. She then attended the Univer-

‘ ,, sity of'\/irginia for her graduate work,

. obtaining her masters in education
" there.

While at U Va, she worked at Wash-
 ington and Lee as a graduate assis-
*;- tam, and was formally hired here in

} 1999 as the associate head trainer. Last

j summer. then-llead Trainer Tom Jones

 entered phased retirement, and Snyder
‘{ was hired to replace him.

I-lers was a busy summer  she

Matlitt. and returned only when jun-
ior George Merrell was injured.

The Generals looked strong defen-
sively until the final two .lohns
Hopkins drives. W&L coach Frank
M iriello believed that his defense wore
down at the end of the game.

“They were out there a long time.
that’s for sure," he said. “Our offense
played a lot better this year than they
did last year and kept us offthe field a
little longer. But we had too many min-
utcs out there, and that’s going to
cause some problems mental break-
downs, physically you can’t match up.
We just got tired."

The two teams played to a score-
less draw in the first half, thanks in
part to Mafiitt’s two picks. Thejunior
safety intercepted Fernand at the
W&L, l0-yard line in the first quarter‘
and at his own 13 in the second, put-
ting an end to two long Blue Jay pos-
sessions.

Johns Hopkins drovc 48 yards to
the Generals’ 10 in the final minute of

’the first half, but Matt Castagna
missed a 27-yard field goal as time
expired.

W &l. came out strong to open the
second half. as junior quarterback
Peter Dean marched the Generals
down the field. Dean hit sophomore
tight end Patrick Ncuman for a 23-yard
strike down to the Blue Jays‘ 9-yard
line and tossed an 8~yard touchdown
to sophomore Taylor Callaham two
plays later.

ALI. IN A oAv’s WORK. \VaSIllI1gl't.)t1 and Lee l lead Arlilcric
Trainer l-‘lolly Snyder, left, \u'z1ps flit‘ ankle of senior Katlilccn

married Bryan Snyder, head volleyball
and women's basketball coach, on
June 15. and took over as head ath-
letic trainer on July 2. Her first task
was to fully staff the training room,
which proved to be quite a task, but a
fulﬁlling one.

“Heather Grant and Jason Vcreb
have taken over as assistant trainers.
and Brandon May is around as an in-

 


7‘
T .
I Monk and Wornens -Sportswear,
_j Outerwear, and Fly,Fishing Products

f Now Avarlablhe in Lexington!
;,  7 . A I Recl.'I‘lme Fly Fis,hl:g&Ontlittcr

J‘ * V ‘ I 23 Wgstwnhlngton 8:.

< Lexington, VA 24450

462-6106 A V

‘ www.r¢cltimcflyfishing.com

s rallies t off WL in overtime

ll: ll

 

(4-lit and sophomore linebacker l .lcn1l \‘i»’ilsoi1ino\*cin to tackle

Junior Whit Whitfield made his ﬁrst
career extra-point attempt to give W&L
a 7-0 lead with 9:43 left in the third.

That score held until the 5:38 mark
of the fourth quarter. when Johns
Hopkins sophomore Adam Cook
scored on a ‘}-yard run to knot the
game at 7-7. ’

tern." Snyder said. ‘‘I’m very happy
with the staff. They‘re all excellent
workers.“

Snyder noted that the training room
is a little small for the number of ath-
letes they serve. but that the facility
is of good quality. “We do occasion-
ally liave athletes sitting on the floor
receiving treatment. but thcre’s a pro-
posal fora new room in the works. so

W&L responded with an eight-
play drive that began from their own
24-yard line. The possession included
a 30-yard pass from Dean to Sullivan
on a third-and-l2 play. and Sullivan
punched it in from 10 yards out for a
l4-7 load with l :20 to play.

“You’rc pretty fl red up that you’re

.\lim~.x.i. .1! »ll

(.;lI)S(.)t'1, field hockey co-captain. Snyder took over for the
rctiring’l"mn_lrn1cs its head trainer injuly,

we’ ll be patient.” she said.

All in all, the Generals‘ training
room is in good hands with Holly
Snyder in charge. As much as we
tlon‘t want to see injuries on the ﬁelds
and in the pool, they do happen. and
with the experts in the training room
around. our athletes will be back on
the fields as soon as they can be. and
we can’t ask much more than that.

.

SUNDAY SEPTEMBER 22

(Rciindate September 29)
2:30 P.M. - 7:00 P.M.

 

LOCATION
600 Weddell St.
Lexington, VA 24450

(next to public pool off Main Street) 3 I,

PROUD SPONSOR OF...

BRINGING SKATING AND CORE MUSIC
TOGETHER FOR A GOOD CAUSE.

$5.00 DONATION
(NO ALCOHOL. HELMETS REQUIRED WHEN SKATING.)

  

I ll-Illlool»

I;-ir‘.uz”ln
DO1EBl.F-,-TEAMED. \Vasliingt<.')n and Lee junior safety Tell 3 liafﬁn johns lloplzins taill>acl< Adam (look on Saturday. ;’\-lafﬁtt had

two interceptions. while Cook rushed for "El l yards and a TD.

able to do something like that,"
Sullivan said of the go-ahead drive.
“You’re just hoping that the defense
will hold for you. You have faith and
conﬁdence in them that they’re go-
ing to do what they’vc been doing
all game.”

But Fernand and the Blue Jays ran

Pun: 7?

their two-minute offense successfully
against the Generals. and Fernand
capped off the ensuing drive with a
34-yard TD toss to sophomore Brian
Wolcott.

Fernand and Wolcott hooked up
again to open overtime, as the quar-
terback found his receiver for a 24-
yard play down to the W&L l-yard
line. Fernand sneaked the ball up the
middle to put the Blue Jays up 21-14,
and the Generals went four-and-out.

Miriello was pleased with his
team ‘s overall effort, and he echoed
Sull.ivan’s sentiment that Saturday’s
game against Gui.ll’ord is what the Gen-
erals are really shooting for.

“Wc‘ve got to lick our wounds, so
to speak. We'll look at the tape, look
at the mistakes we made and correct
them,” Miriello said. “(Guilford is) an
ODAC game, it’s the first one we’ve
got to get to get to the title, and that’s
our focus. We’re going after the title,
one ODAC game at a time."

It’s the little things that should make
the difference for W&L, Sullivan said.

“In terms of our running game. we
were one block a way a lot of times.
The linemen need to stay on blocks a
half-second longer. I need to make
reads a little quicker, a little faster." he
said. “Everything just needs to speed
up a half-second more, and we should
be unstoppable."

The Generals kick off against the
Quakers at I pm. at the ArmfieldAth-
letic Center.

Field hockey, men’s
soccer teams take to road

W&L tops Mary Baldwin,
drops pair at Salisbury

FROM STAFF REPORTS

The Washington. and Lee ﬁeld

hockey team opened up its second

_ season of fullvarsity play this past
week with three non-conference
games. W&L concluded the first day
of the Salisbury Tournament Satur-
day with a 1-2 record.

On Wednesday, the Generals got
off on the right foot, shutting out
Mary Baldwin 2-0 in Staunton.

Junior forward Jessica Lake

scored the game-winner at l 6:45 off

an assist from English exchange stu-
dent Joanna Slack, and junior for-
ward Kelly Taffe cushioned the lead

with an unassisted tally at 2:05 of

the second half.

Freshmen goalies Courtney
Harrison and Elise Gelinas each
played a half, totaling four saves for
W&L.

In the opening game of the
Salisbury Tournament, the Generals
quickly fell behind to Wesley Col-
lege when Kim Robostello scored the
first other two goals a mere 35 sec-
onds into the game.

Freshman midfielder Jane Beall
responded with an unassisted goal
to tie the game, but the Wolverines
bookcnded two goals around half-
time to earn a 3-1 victory.

In later action, the outcome was the
same for the Generals as they dropped
a 3-1 contest to Denison. despite
outshooting the Big Red 1 2-7.

Denison scored three first-half

goals to put the game out of reach,
with Kelsey Ill accounting for two
of the goals.

Beall prevented the shutout

when she scored off an assist from
sophomore Meredith Walker with
8:25 left in the match.

w&i. will play on: Dominion

Athletic Conference foe Hollins in
their home opener on Wednesday
at 6:30 pm.

Méni’s soccer plays N. C.
Wesleyan to 1-1 draw

The Washington and Lee men’s
soccer team, looking for its first vic-
tory of the season at the Methodist
Tournament, earned. a hard-fought
1-} tie against North Carolina
Wesleyan on Saturday afternoon.

After a scoreless first half, the Bat-
tling Bishops notched the first goal at
the 52:00 mark when Drew Martin put
a shot past freshman goalkeeper
Michael Stanton to take a 1-0 lead.

The Generals (0-2-1) responded
seven minutes later when sopho-
more defender Brian Pirkle scored an
unassisted goal off a deflection to
even the score at 1-1.

The scoreboard would not change
over the final 51 minutes, as neither
team found the back. of the net dur-
ing the final 3 1 minutes ofregulati.on
or during two overtime periods.

Senior Brad Heam played the
first half for the Generals. making
one save. Stanton played the sec-
ond halfand overtime in net, regis-
tering nine saves.

W&L outshot North Carolina
Wesleyan 22-18 on the day. but
George Frangos notched ll saves
in goal for the Battling Bishops to
preserve the tie.

The Generals open the ODAC
season at Hampden—Syd.ney on Sat-
urday at 1 pm.

CampusFundraiser at
www.campusfundraiser.com

fraternitiesjsororities
llluhsostutlentltrouns

Earn $1,000-$2,000 this semester with a proven
CampusFundraiser 3 hour fundraising event. Our programs
make fundraising easy with no risks. Fundraising dates are
filling quickly, so get with the program! It works. Contact
(888)

923-323 8, or visit

SELL SPRING BREAK TRIPS
ALLTl»ll?. FUN & Al..I..Tl~lE PROTECTIONS
AMERICAN EXPRESS WORLDWIDE
GU A.RANTEED BEST BUY
1 FREE TRIP.l7O.R EVERY l 0 PAID
OR CASH STARTING WITH. F IRST BOOKING
YOU SEL'L- WE COLLECT PAYMENTS
WORLD CLASS VACATIONS
l-800-222-4432

 

0 ‘ i*‘.l;l{';\‘(§--l‘,\s 

I)AGIL8_.

PORTS  --

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER,l6, 2002

e, women take 1st place i Generals Invitational

JEB BROOKS/Tl IE RL\r+ru\1 Plu
W&L WINS. Freshman Betsy Frayer placed third on Saturday.

Generals drill

Sweet Briar,
tie Newport

Women ’s soccer takes 9-0 ODAC win,
steps out of conference for 1-1 draw

BY MICHAEL LEE
SPORTS WRITER

The Washington and Lee women’s soccer team saw a
pair of games this week, annihilating the Sweet Briar Vix-
ens on Monday in a 9-0 ODAC match, and tying the Chris-
topher Newport Lady Captains Saturday afternoon at the
Liberty Hall Fields in a non-conference game.

Monday’s game against Sweet Briar proved to be a
‘blowout, with the Generals’ first goal coming from sopho-
more defender Kelley Zagol in the third minute off of a
throw-in from senior midﬁelder Jenny Thomas.

That goal broke the ice, and sophomore forward Maggie

Hope, freshman midﬁelder Gina Von Stemberg, sopho-
more forward Molly Plummer and Thomas also scored in
the ﬁrst half, bringing the score to 5-0 at the break.
K Sophomore midﬁelder Martha Allgood notched two
assists, as did Thomas, and Hope, Plummer, Von Stemberg
and sophomore midﬁelder Romney Wilson added one as
well.

Hope and Von Stemberg each scored again in the
second half, along with junior forward Susannah Hewlett
and sophomore midﬁelder Alison Irvin, to ﬁnish oﬂ‘ the
Vixens.

Sophomore goalkeepers Emily Barker an/dAbigai1 Pfetfer
shared time in the goal. Sweet Briar’s senior goalkeeper
Margaret Van Hook garnered 10 saves in an otherwise de-
pressing game. The Generals outshot Sweet Briar 24-0.

W&L men take top 4 slots, freshmen pace
women’s team in annual home meet

BY DAVID CROWELL
ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITOR

Junior Andy Schorr spearheaded an impressive show-
ing by the Washington and Lee men’s cross country team
at the W&L Invitational on Saturday, winning the 8,000-
meter race in a time of 28:49.25.

The Generals took the top four spots en route to win-
ning the men’s competition with 16 points, easily outdis-
tancing Southern Virginia College, which took second
place with 52 points.

For Schorr, it was his ﬁrst competition of the year after
sitting out the Elon Invitational on Sept. 7 with a small
injury.

“I was disappointed that there weren’t more teams com-
peting at our course, but I was excited to be back in com-
petition,” he said.

Following Schorr, sophomore Steven Chambers ﬁn-
ished the course in 29:28.87 to take second place, fresh-
man Andrew Johnson took third place (29:48.12) and se-
nior captain Will Teichman ﬁnished in 30:27.86, good
enough for fourth place.

Sophomore Marty LaF1amrne rounded out the scoring
for W&L, ﬁnishing in sixth place with a time of 30:34.40.

Not to be outdone, the women’s team took ﬁrst place
out of six teams, placing all ﬁve scoring runners in the top
10. The Generals ﬁnished with 26 points, beating out sec-
ond-place finisher and Old Dominion Athletic Conference
foe Lynchburg (61 points).

Freshmen Molly Drake and Betsy Frayer and sopho-
more Liz Crawford paced W&L, ﬁnishing in second
through fourth place respectively.

Drake, also the team’s top ﬁnisher at the Elon Invita-
tional, ﬁnished the race in 25:58, not far behind Catholic ’s
Rachel Yates, who won the race in 25:30.

JEl3BROOKS/THERI.\'G-'lLl11Pl-ll
POSTING UP. Washington and Lee sophomoreMol1y Plummet
attempts to keep Christopher Newport defender Terri
Kaminsky off the ball in the two teams’ 1-1 tie on Saturday at
the Liberty Hall Fields.

Saturday afternoon saw the Generals in action against
Christopher Newport. The ﬁrst half was scoreless until
40:23, when Thomas found the net off an assist from fresh-
man midﬁelder Kerry Giblin.

The Lady Captains answered in the second half, when
freshman midﬁelder Ashleigh Dota scored on Barker after
a break down the field. Barker redeemed herself with a
game—saving grab at 82:26 off a Newport penalty kick,
preserving the tie.

Barker ﬁnished the game with six saves, while Newport
freshman goalkeeper Erin Pollack garnered three saves.
Newport outshot the Generals 17-8 for the game.

The Generals return to action on Wednesday when
they travel to Lynchburg for a 4 p.m. ODAC game.

SCOREBOARD

SATURDAY’S FOOTBALLYARDLINE

W&L SPORTS SCHEDULEI SEPT. 16-29

JEB BRooi<s/THnR1.\mUMPH1

AND THEY’RE OFF. Washington and Lee runners, from left, Jeremy Mims (hidden), Andy Schorr, Will Teichman, Marty
LaFlamme, Rusty Meyer, AndrewJohnson, Andrew Fotinos and Steven Chambers begin Saturday’s Generals Invitational.

“I felt really good about my run, but I was happier that
the entire team ran well,” Drake said.

Frayer ﬁnished the 6,000—meter course in 26:22, nine
seconds ahead of Crawford. Freshmen Meg Garner
(27:23.80) and Sarah Williamson (27:5 1 .3 8) rounded out
W&L’s scoring, finishing in eighth and ninth place re-
spectively.

“I think this race was key because of the fact that We’re
a young team. We’re building some conﬁdence that we’ll

need later on,” Drake said.

Both cross country squads return to competition on
Sept. 27 when the Generals compete at the Great American
Cross Country Festival in Charlotte, N.C. The men’s race
begins at 5:30 p.m., with the women running at 6:30 p.m.

“Our performance (on Saturday) gives our team some
much-needed conﬁdence,” Schorr said about his squad.
“I’m really excited about the opportunities that we have to
succeed in the future.”

Johns Hopkins 21, Washington and Lee 14
Johns Hopkins 0 0 0 14 7-21
Washington and Lee 0 0 7 7 0-14
Third Quarter
W&L -— Callaham 8 pass from Dean (Whitfield kick), 9:43
Fourth Quarter
JHU — Cook 9 run (Smo|yn kick), 5:38
W&L — Sullivan 10 run (Whitfield kick), 1:20
JHU — Wolcott 34 pass from Fernand (Smo|yn kick), 0:15 '
Overtime
JHU — Femand 1 run (Smolyn kick)

JHU

W&L
First downs 20 14
Rushes-yards 34-145 38-132
Passing yards 239 146
Return yards 73 61
Comp-Att-lnt 19-34-3 12-29-1
Sacked-Yards lost 2-7 1-10
Punts 5-33 8-34.4
Fumbles-lost 2-1 ' 0-0
Penalties-yards 2-25 4-42
Time of Possession 28:06 31:54

INDIVIDUAL STATISTICS
RUSH|NG—Johns Hopkins: Cook 8-70, Johnson 14-65, Stache
2-8, Readal 3-7, Merrell 3-3, Femand 4-(-8). Washington and Lee:
Sullivan 33-152, Krupczak 1-1, Dean 3-(-20), Team 1-(-1).
PASSlNG-Johns Hopkins: Femand 19-34-3-239. Washington
and Lee: Dean 12-28-1-146, Barnwell 0-1-0-0.
RECEIViNG—Johns Hopkins: Lehman 6-73, Cook 5-33, Wolcott
4-75, Eno 3-41, Moriarty 1-17. Washington and Lee: Callaham 4-
52, Brimer 4-43, Sullivan 3-28, Neuman 1-23.
INTERCEPTlONS—Johns Hopkins: Longo 1-10. Washington
and Lee: Matlitt 2-8, Stavish 1-4.

Wednesday, Sept. 18
Women’s Soccer

W&L at Lynchburg, 4 p.m.
Field Hockey

Hollins at W&L, 6:30 p.m.
Volleyball

Hollins at W&L, 6:30 p.m.

September 21-22

Golf

W&L at James Madison Invitational
Men’s Tennis

W&L Fall Classic

Saturday, Sept. 21

Field Hockey

W&L at Lynchburg, 1 p.m.
Football

W&L at Guilford, 1 p.m.

Men’s Soccer

W&L at Hampden-Sydney, 1 p.m.
Women’s Soccer

Hollins at W&L, 1 p.m.
Volleyball

W&L at Eastern Mennonite, 1 p.m.

Sunday, Sept. 22
Women’s Soccer
Greensboro at W&L, 1 p.m.
Volleyball
W&L at Randolph-Macon, 1 pm.
W&L vs. Virginia Wesleyan

(at Randolph-Macon), 3 p.m.

September 23-24

Goli

Buck Leslie Invitational, Lexington
Golf & Country Club

Tuesday, Sept. 24

Women’s Soccer

W&L at Randolph-Macon Women’s
College, 4 p.m.

Wednesday, Sept. 25
Men’s Soccer

W&L at Guilford, 4 p.m.
Field Hockey

W&L at Roanoke, 4:30 p.m.

Friday, Sept. 27

Volleyball (at Emory Classic)

W&L vs. Texas Lutheran, 2 pm.

W&L vs. East Texas Baptist,
4:30 p.m.

Cross Country

W&L at Great American Cross
Country Festival

Field Hockey

W&L at Eastern Mennonite, 7 p.m.

Saturday, Sept. 28

Cross Country

W&L at Roanoke Invitational
Women’s Soccer

W&L at N.C. Wesleyan, 12 p.m.
Football "
W&L at Centre, 1:30 p.m.
Volleyball (at Emory Classic)
W&L vs. Southwestern, 2 pm
W&L at Emory, 4:30 p.m.
Men’s Soccer

W&L at Roanoke, 2:30 p.m.

Sunday, Sept. 29
Field Hockey
Virginia Wesleyan at W&L, 1 p.m.

Volleyball traight

BY JEREMY FRANKLIN
SPORTS EDITOR

The Washington and Lee volley-
ball team opened the Old Dominion
Athletic Conference season with a
three—game win over Guilford on
Wednesday before winning a pair of
matches at the Centre Tournament on
Saturday.

The Generals began ODAC play
with a 30-19, 30-19, 30-27 win over
Guilford at the Warner Center. W&L
swept the Quakers despite what head
coach Bryan Snyder deemed a lack-
luster effort.

“We didn’t play well at all tonight,
in any phase of the game,” Snyder
said after the match. “But we made
some big plays when we needed to
make big plays. That’s what I told the
girls after the game — it’s the sign of
a championship team to be able to win
when you don’t play your best.”

Sophomore Michelle Chastain re-
corded 16 kills against Guilford, add-
ing 10 digs and four aces. Classmate
Jennifer Lux tallied 35 assists and nine
digs, and freshman Susan Gaillard ﬁn-
ished with seven kills and three
blocks.

“It’s the beginning of the season,
and we have some things to work on,
but we deﬁnitely have some good
players in the front,” Lux said. “We
lost a lot of players last year, but we
deﬁnitely have some strong girls com-
ing in. I think that we can run some
plays that maybe in the past we
haven’t done.”

The Quakers made W&L ﬁght for
nearly every point on Wednesday.
Guilford led‘ 15-14 in the ﬁrst game
before the Generals gradually pulled
away by way of ﬁve straight service
points from freshman Taylor Gibson
and- four to close the match from se-
nior Stacey Kimmel.

W&L broke an 8-8 tie in the sec-
ond set and led the rest of the way.
The Generals led for most of the final
frame, but eight service errors by the

OoURIrsY<)r Sroius l.\iR)Ri\l-\TDN

DOZENS OF DIMES. W&L sophomore setterJennifer Lux tallied 35 assists in the
Generals’ 30-19, 30-19, 30-27 over Guilford at the Warner Center on Wednesday.

home team kept Guilford within strik-
ing distance.

Despite Snyder’s concerns about
his team’s play, the main thing against
Guilford was opening the ODAC sea-
son with a win.

“We’ve got a lot of improvement
to make, but we’ve got a lot of time to
make that improvement,” Snyder said.
“With the way our region is set up,
the ODAC automatic bid is really the
only option we have to make the
NCAA Tournament. We’d like to get
the No. 1 seed in the ODAC Tourna-
ment, and all these regular-season
matches are huge.

“As long as we continue to win,
teams are going to have to come
knock us off to get that No. 1 seed.”

W&L traveled to Danville, Ky.,
over the weekend for the Centre Tour-

nament. The Generals started outwith
a pair of wins on the first day of the
invitational, sweeping Averett and

coming from behind to beat Centre in .

ﬁve games.

Chastain set a new career high with
17 kills in W&L’s 30-24, 30-23, 30-25
win over Averett. Gibson added nine
kills and six blocks, while Lux amassed
36 assists.

W&L then pulled off a 14-30, 23-
30, 30-28, 30-20, 15-8 win over the
homestanding Colonels. Gaillard had
14 kills and six blocks for the Gener-

in

V

als, while Chastain contributed 10 kills »

and Gibson added nine kills and four
blocks. Lux had 38 assists against
Centre, and Kimmel recorded 14 digs.

The Generals resume ODAC play
with a 6:30 p.m. match against Hollins
at the Warner Center on Wednesday.

Interested in getting involved with
Washington and Lee athletics?

Write for the P/92°.

Opportunities are available to cover fall sports,
from football to soccer, ﬁeld hockey to volleyball.

Contact Sports Editor Jeremy Franklin at
fmmé/z'7y@w/zredu or X4060 for more information.

L‘

I

 

 

11 BY ANDREW LATIMER
NEWs EDITOR

The job market might not have
dried up for the class of 2002, yet
times are not easy for career seekers.

Beverly T. Lori g, director of Ca-
reer Services, reported that the news
from last year’s graduating class
a isn’t dire, even if it is not all wine,

roses and signing bonuses.

As of June 6, about 30 percent of dotcombubble in1ate2000,
the 404 Students had already When they encounter
accepted job 05618, and 21 difﬁculties in securing jobs,
” percent decided to pursue most students delay their
post-gmdllate Studies. “I an- entry into the marketby con-
ticipated that the percentage tinuing their studies. “Typi-
Ofthose employed Would be cally, when the economy

g lower,” Lorig said.

“Since 1990-1991,
when it was a miserable job
market, the number of
those with jobs at cap-and-

‘ gown has ranged from 27 percent to
31 percent. So I was surprised.”

Lorig, a 20-year career counseling
veteran, remarked, “Would yoube overly
optimistic? That’s just not a wise ap-
proachforajobsearchthisyear. . . thisis
notthetirnetobetooconﬁdentoroocky.”

On—campus recruitment for busi-
ness, consulting and retail jobs, which
1 wasdownlastyear, isexpectedtofall
once again. One such recruiter, the scan-
dal-mired auditing ﬁrm ArthurAndersen
which took 5 students in 2001, will not
return, along withAccenture andAmeri-
can Management systems.

“Last spring was not a good time,
with the Enron disaster and seeing
(Andersen) irnpl ,” said Lorig. “We
q had graduates with positions that were
canceled. . . itwasverystrangelastyear.”

Today’s college students enjoyed
America’s longest sustained bull mar-
ket, which sparmed from 1992 until the
fall of2000. For some, athrivingeconomy
is the only one they’ve known.

Even so, it is still too soon to gauge
student attitudes accurately. The re-

Electric storm darkens downtown Lexington

Slow economy
narrows options

Class of 2002 adjusts to post-dotcom fallout
as increase in post-graduate studies expected

 

LORIG

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

~« NG-TUM

The student were of Wdlilfffgidff eeel lee Urrfeerrfh here 7897 (D Orr/fee ef: p/iz'.u//fr.eeler

spouse for campus recruitment will be
anearlyindicator, especially forthe hard-
hit banking, consulting and technology
applicants. “We’ll have a better sense
come November,” Lorig said.

Nothing can match the mood of the
class of 2000, with their multiple job of-
fers, generous signing bonuses and
great starting salaries. Many were wooed
by start up ventines, most of which have
evaporated with the bursting of the

goes sour, you’ll see gradu-
ate law school applications
go up,” noted Lorig.
OnceCareerServicesﬁn-
ishes gathering information
thisFebruary fortheirarrnual reviewofthe
previous year’s gaduating class, the job
marketpicture will become much clearer.
Class of 2001 data showed 65 percent of
the graduates were employed seven
months after receiving their diplomas.
Career Services recommends that
alumni and current seniors be persistent
and employ networlcingandalumni con-
nections to their fullest. The oﬂice ad-
vises any student to contact ﬁiends, fam-

 

 __ CV,No.V1l1
TUESDAY, SERIERIBER 24, 2002

JED BRO0KS/ The Ring-tr/m Phi

FEEL THE SPIRIT MOVE YOU. Shepherd Poverty Program Director Harlan Beckley (left) looks on as Sargent Shriver expresses his hopes for a united, peaceful world.

Shriver implores youth to embrace future, common humanity

ily, sports teams, ﬁaternities and honors
societies. The job search should begin
at the ﬁrst day of school for seniors, as
the ﬁrst employers visit campus within

V the ﬁisttwoweeks ofOctober.

One thing that remains constant
is the quality of the W&L student,
which Lorig equates to taking a “good
product to market.” According to her,
talented, determined college graduates
will always be in demand in any ﬁeld.

Lorig and her coworkers remain
unfazed by the employment climate
and said there was no need to panic.
Lorig stressed, “We’re up to the chal-
lenge this year.”

BY ANDREW LATIMER
\"E\ll/S EDITOR

Lee Chapel played host to its ﬁrst speaker of the
new school year on Sept. 17 when Peace Corps founder
and 1972 vice-presidential candidate R Sargent Shriver
took to the lectem with his talk, “Recollections and
Challenges: AHalf-Century of Fighting Poverty.”

The event, sponsored by the W&L President’s
Office, the Shepherd Poverty Program and the Con-
tact Committee, drew a diverse and lively crowd
that included university president Thomas Burish
and provost Laurent Boetsch.

While Shriver did mention some of his experi-
ences during the forty-minute speech, he reserved
the bulk of his words for his vision of the future, as

well as admiration for W&L’s own Shepherd Pov-
erty Program, headed by Prof. Harlan Beckley. “I hope
truthfully that (it) will be replicated around the United
States and around the world,” Shriver said.

Beckley appreciated the praise and stated that
“Mr. Shriver has devoted his entire life to alleviat-
ing poverty and working for international peace.
Washington and Lee students who become aware
of his great accomplishments and generous and
humble spirit will be inspired to know more about
how they can work to alleviate poverty and dimin-
ish conﬂict during their life times.”

Addressing the students of Washington and
Lee, Shriver said, “I wish I were you... You are in
the best place and the most qualiﬁed to make the
21st century what it should be.”

Central to Shriver’s View of the world were
themes of a common humanity with a common ex-
istence and common solutions. Advances in tele-
communications have enabled the possibility of
“mind-boggling” ﬂexibility and interdependence,
which he believes will lead people of different cul-
tures to appreciate each other.

Shriver stressed that with technology’s ben-
eﬁts have come greater threats to humanity’s de-
struction, which will bring the world to two choices:
peace and death. Thumping his fist, he urged,
“Work for peace, for peace, for peace.”

Dire predictions for the future aside, Shriver
said, “I have one quality, I’m hopeful.” To him, the

See SHRIVER, page 2

Banetbnngs

BY ANDREW LATIMER
NEWs EDITOR

The Lexington area received some relief from its
record drought on Sunday, but not without a price.

The lightning that accompanied yesterday’s heavy
rains has been blamed for the damage to at least two crucial
downtown Lexington transformers, a situation that lead to
a nearly three-hour blackout along Washington and N.
Randolph Streets starting at approximately 7:35 p.m.

Lexington Police presume a bolt hit a 7200-volt high-
tension power line somewhere on the system at approxi-
mately 7:35 p.m., prompting a massive surge.

Doppler radar indicated that up to 0.8 in. of rain fell

"within Lexington city limits, yet that will make only a

small dent in the 16 in. rain deﬁcit for the year.

While students on the main campus, fraternity houses,
sorority row and Virginia Military Institute only observed
ﬂickering lights, once they tried to drive through town they

discovered unlit traffic signals and unsafe intersections.

Police responded to one minor accident at the corner
of Washington and Jefferson Streets, but no other injury
to lives or property was reported as a result of the blackout.

Virginia Electric Power Company (VEPCO) was on the
scene shortly after the strikes, yet rain and a reduced Sun-
day staff slowed down efforts to pinpoint the problems with
the power grid. Jay Melvin, proprietor of University Clean-
ers, said that businesses were somewhat upset but coped
with the problem. The owners of the Southern Irm let diners
ﬁnish their meals by candlelight before being asked to leave.

Sgt. Torben Pedersen told of resident reports of
transformers on N. Randolph St. “shooting off sparks
like a roman candle.” He added that Sunday night’s com-
bination of grid failures “was a very unusual situation”
because its nature prevented rerouting of power.

The outage also interrupted work at The Ring-tum
Phi offices at 31 Washington St., delaying the release of
the issue by one day to Tuesday.

    

I jssié

MoRErHANMEi~:rs1HEEYE.Acriticalﬁiseinthetransfonnerbe1iind
University Cleaners overioaded Sunday, cuttingpower to parts of town

Budget concerns derailed Commons post office

   
  

(I MAIL CALL. Students will continue to pick up
theirmailat 10Lee Ave., just as they didin 1913.

University students will still have to trek to local office for their ma

BY JONATHAN WORTHAM
STAFF WRITER

Washington and Lee students can
expect to get their mail from the Lexington
post oﬂice for the foreseeable future. Plans
for a University post ofﬁce, which would
have been inside the University Commons,
have been a confirmed victim of budget
cuts, but not town intervention.

“Most of W&L is zoned as residential
aridcornmereial,”explainedBill Blatter,director
of Planning and Development for Lexington
The 1998 W&L master plan, which was ap-
proved by the Lexington Planning Commis-
sion, describedthe cornrnorisasa“90,000gross
sq. ft. building,” Blatter said.

The master plan, which is a compo-
nent of the institutional overlay, describes
new buildings, their size, and use. The
master plan includes “post office,” as one
of the uses of the Commons.

“Had they wanted to build a post of-
ﬁce,” said Blatter, “It would have been ac-
ceptable within their master plan.”

“You’d have to ask them,” said Lex-
ington Postmaster Larry Creamer, when
asked why the Commons Post ofﬁce was
not built. “We don’t have any control (over
whether they build a post office). From
what I understand, they decided they were
not going to do it.”

When asked if the proposed W&L post
office would negatively impact the Lexing-
ton post ofﬁce, Creamer indicated that rev-
enue lost from box rentals and counter ser-
vice would likely cause the post off1ce’s
budget to be cut.

According to Creamer, W&L engaged
in informal talks about acquiring his
facility’s basement mailboxes for placement
in the proposed post ofﬁce.

If a Commons post ofﬁce had been con-
structed, W&L would have been respon-

if as cost, not Lexington authorities, strike down school master plan

sible for stafﬁng and budgeting. “It would
have been similarto Vlvﬂ, said Creamer. VMI
has an on-campus mail facility that is staffed
by students and employees.

The post office’s current location en-
courages students to venture into town.
“It’s good for business,” said Blatter. The
post off1ce’s proximity to downtown and
the commercial strip along Nelson Street
probably results in a considerable amount
of student patronage.

“I like the post office,” senior Ann-
Bailey Lyrm said. “It’s quaint. It’s a W&L
traditon.”

Sophomore Andrew Dudley, however,
explained that “if Joseph Conrad was right,
and ‘what saves us is efficiency, that devo-
tion to eﬂiciency,’ an on-campus post of-
ﬁce would certainly be more convenient.”

University officials were not available

See Posr OFFICE, page 2

culture to W&L

BY KATIE HOWELL
EDITOR IN CHIEF

With Professor David Elms’ fellowship in the
American Psychological Society, the math departrnent’s
Beautiful Mind symposium, Professor Ken Van Ness’
bridge-strength plastic and the Alsos research website,
W&L has shown its status as an intellectual initiator.

Now the school is a cultural
initiator as well with Ballet
Shanghai’s U. S. debut on the
Lenfest Center’s Keller Theatre.

“I was really surprised that such
a group would come to W&L,” said
senior and Lenfest crewmember Neal
Willets. “Having apremiere ballet com-
pany from EastAsia come here is deﬁ-
nitely an honor for the school and city.”

The ballet made its first stop on the U.S. tour in
Lexington on Thursday and Friday nights with perfor-
mances of “The White-Haired Girl” and “Coppelia” re-
spectively. Lenfest Director Michael Gorman said the
shows progressed without glitch other than translation
and set-up problems.

“The scenery arrived in cases from China a few weeks
ago and had never been opened until this week,” Gorman
said. “The American crews had never seen the materials.
Also, the entire company only had two translators, so
there was a lot of hand gesturing, but their people were
great and our people were great. We all learned a lot.”

Gorrnansaid, however,thatthese problems wereexpected

“We have established a relationship with the
agency,” he said. “When they want to try out a new
attraction, they send them to us as a breaking-ground.”

Gorman said that the performance agency discounts
the performance price of such groups.

“The company arrived directly from China to Lex-
ington where they could try to shake out their problems
before continuing to bigger markets,” he said. “Because
we receive a better fee, we can just barely afford them if

GORMAN

See SHANGHAI, page 2

 

 

J/3.lv'lE§ hi.  .739’? 3;, ﬂit’ 5, 199.5: ll‘!
1‘InJ»£K()’i lll~:t§W'.L4“< ii ‘ ‘T ' l.‘.‘Nr"|G"ll3l'l‘{
' ' "   ‘-.r’.¢. .”—."M'5l.l

PAGE 2 ‘K
Sgp jg  

3l-:2.ll::=;:‘.-::,:i;ll§t

NEWS

Moretti delivers ‘Maps, Graphs, Trees’

21st Shannon-Clark lecturer discusses the geography of literature; attempts to introduce literary empiricism

  

ya Barrie, ntoitugtim Pa
New ENGLISH. Frank Moretti examined the
cartography of a selection of l-European novels.

BY SREYA Bananas
srarr WRITER

‘Maverick professor Franco Moretti presented
his theory of “distance reading" and the 21st Sh-
annon Clark lecture “Maps,Graphs,Trees :Ab~
stract Models for Literary History.”

Now teaching English at Stanford University,

 

Moretti, a graduate of the University of Rome,
has written several books, most recently the Atlas
of the European Novel l800— 1900.

In his introduction, English Department Head
James Warren described the s-cholar‘s work as “a
surprising investigation that produces questions
we could not anticipate."

In his talk, Morctti talked of introducing ele-
ments of the natural science into literary research.
including empirical research, wide—ranging data
tabulation, and collaboration with peers.

“I want to carry on the program of the En-
lightenment,” Moretti said. Part of his approach
is to eschew “close reading,” or intense exami-
nation of a single text, for his “distance read-
ing,” placing a work in its sociohistorical con-
text.

Close reading is the predominate method of
textual analysis in the United States.

Moretti’s Northen Auditorium lecture exam-
ined the utility of mapping in different novels.

Although mentioning a tripartate division of
village, province, and capital, the former was the
focus of Moretti’s talk.

Mary Mitford’s novel Our Village was the pri-

mary example. Morreti purported to show how the
self~sufficient village life creates a closed circle of
activity.

The village is a “drastic centralization of
space,” with the village a centre of gravity and the
people’s lives revolving around it, Moretti said.
Using supplementary evidence from John Galt’s
Annal’s of the Parish, Morctti attempted to show
how industrial development would later destroy
the villages circular inﬂuence.

The Shannon Clark Lecture, begun in 1982,
was endowed by an anonymous Washington and
Lee alumnus. The lecture honors the memories of
Edgar Finley Shannon, Department head of En-
glish from 1914 until his death in 1938, and Harriet
Mabel Fishburn Clark, the donor's grandmother
and advocate of the liberal arts system of educa-
tion.

“Every year the English Department nomi-
nates English scholars from across the world as
potential Shannon Clark lecturers.” Warren said.
“A speaker is chosen. and a formal invitation is
sent out.” Apart from being an all expenses paid
trip, speakers receive a very generous honorarium,
Warren said.

Fairpublicizes study abroad

BY DREW DAVENPORT
SHFF xvium

Thirty tables and a kaleido-
scope of flags lined Stemmons Plaza
last Thursday atwashington and
Lee’s annual Study Abroad Fair.
Showcasing a range of study abroad
options, the program attracted out-
side groups like the institute for
Education of Students and BUN AC .
W&I. also has alliances with other
colleges that allow students to cam
credit at foreign universities.

For example, New York Univer-
sity allows W&L students to study
at Prague, Paris, London, Madrid and
Florence, NYU representative Kate
Henderson said.

About 220 W&L students,
mostly sophomores and juniors,
went abroad last year, Director of In-
ternational Education William
Klingelhofer said.

The Study Abroad Fair
“seemed to be very popular,”
Klingelhofer said. “There was a lot
of interest among students.”

The most popular destinations
for Study Abroad are the United King-

dom, Australia, Spain, France, ltaly
and Latin America, Klingelhofer said.

“It is possible for a student to
study just about anywhere in the
world,” said Michelle Quizon, pro-
gram coordinator for the Office of
International Education.

“We work with other schools,
exchanges, and sponsor organiza-
tions,” Quizon. said.

Freshman Rob Armstrong at-
tended the Fair and is interested
in studying abroad, particularly in
France. Armstrong was impressed
with the available information.

“(The Study Abroad Fair) was
very informative and helpful, and
more rigorous than l thought it
would be,” Armstrong said.

W&L also presented its new
Global Stewardship program. The
program will allow students to in.-
tern around the world, and program
assistant Latha Dawson hopes it
will give students an international
perspective on their area of study.

“No matter (a student's) dis-
cipline, it is important to under-
stand that there is a global im-
pact,” she said.

Service hero speaks

SHRIVER, from page ‘i

consolidation of North America un-
der NAFTA, Europe under the EU
and the possibility of increased unity
in Asia are all encouraging signs.

The only thing truly missing from
today’s world, according to Shiiver, is vi-
sion. Following his speech, Shriver re-
marked to The Ring-Izmz Phi that today’s
generation “doesn’t realize what confi-
dence it should have.”

Even in the atmosphere of serious-
ness and the listeners’ venciation, Shiiver
preserved a tone of levity throughout
the speech. Making light of his age.
Shriver, 86, quipped, “If I misbehave in
some way, it is because I’m very old.”
However, his frequent and spirited ges-
ticulations told an entirely different story,
as his verve and energy were apparent
to the audience.

‘In addition to two standing ova-
tions, Shtiver received the gift of pock-
ctknife from a group of lo Peace Corps
alumni. The Swiss Army Knife, re-
garded as the most essential tool of
any Peace Corps volunteer, was en-
graved with the letters “WLU."

“We worked together to arrange
their presentation of themselves and
their symbolic gift aﬁerMr. Shriver’s lec-
 Beckley said.

Before the speech, Shtiver also re-
ceived oflicial recognition of his record
of public service from the university’s
Board of Trustees, as well as a letter
from former President Bill Clinton.

The trustees’ special resolution
took note of his legacy of working for
the good of the world, which started in

1947. Although his most famous
achievement was the 1961 formation and
subsequent directorship of the Peace
Corps under President John F. Kennedy,
he also created the Head Start Program,
the Job Corps, VISTA and the Oﬂice of
Economic Opportunity.

He has additionally served as am-
bassador to France from 1968 to 1970,
chaired the board of the Special Olym-
pics, and in 1994 was awarded thePresi-
dential Medal of Freedom.

Prof. Beckley praised Shriver’.-3 ef-
forts, calling him “an inspiration for any-
one who works to alleviate poverty. No
one has done more as a public servant in
order to diminish poverty.”

V/UOI’I’L2I’I.'J  P€A0udQ 0‘

SH  

4 Days Only!
Oct. 2-5 - 9 am-6 pm
16 N. Main St.

(the old Sunday’s Child store)

Values to $150.00

Fczrrrzous Ncmrze Bra

  $15-$50

Tucson’, Ssriianrn 24, 2002

Costs deliver blow
o campus post office

  

lllt(:r)l<.s/"IZreRz>gg4:rz:zl’iri

RETURN TO SENDER. Talk that the town had disallowed \V&_l. from  studenthboxcs did not pan out.

POST OFFICE, from page 1

for comment before press time. None-
theless, the W&L website, in a press
release dated October 22nd, describes
the Commons as a 50,000 square foot
facility, instead of the 90,000 square
feet that were planned for in the mas-
ter plan (1998).

“They (W&L) didn’t build (a
post office) because they didn’t
want to pay to staff it," said a
source that requested anonymity.
Creamer confirmed that campus
mail facilities fall under the complete

responsibility of their sponsoring
institutions.

Perhaps, the removal of the post
office from the Commons is a sign of
the times, rather than simply a matter
of budgeting. Plans had been devel-
oped in the late 1980s for an on—cam-
pus mail facility. The facility would
have handled much intra~campus
mail, as well as mail between stu-
dents and faculty. Nowadays, stu-
dents and faculty have easy access
to e—mail. At any rate, 10 Lee Avenue
will be the mail facility for W&.L.

Ballet indicative of cultural cachet

SHANGHAI, from page 1

we stretch our funds.”

The Washington and Lee Class
of 1964 Performing Arts Fund partially
funded last weekend ’s performance
along with the school itself in the first
of a series of three events this aca-
demic year.

“The ballet was acultural experience
that most would not be able to experi-
ence many other places,” Willets said.

Gorman said all seats for both
shows were completely sold out.

“We pmbab] y had about 850 people
total attend the event,” he said.

Many audience members liked the
contrasting performances of “The White-
I-laired Girl" and “Coppelia.”

"I actually liked the Chinese bal-
let (“The White-Haired Gir ”) better,”
Willets said. “It was atypical ballet,
dance~wise, but in the background
there was one person singing Chinese
the entire time. That added a lot. Plus,
the mystery of something different
probably appealed to a lot of people.”

Gorman also appreciated the dif-
ferent ballet styles.

“I was really pleased with the
event and the entire presentation,” he
said. “There was a nice contrast with

the Chinese piece against the West-
ern piece (“Coppclia”).”

Shanghai Ballet was not the
first cultural group to premiere in
Lexington. Gorman said three years
ago, the Lenfest Center brought in
the Moscow Ballet for a similar
event. He also hopes to have simi-
lar events in the future.

“l think the performance was
very worthwhile,” he said. “No per-
formancesiare ever exactly the same.
We are always‘ looking to have as
wide a variety of performances in the
Lenfest Center as possible with
what’s available and costs. We also
try to find out what students and fac-
ulty are looking for. For several years
there has been a strong interest for
bringing an Asian arts event in. I"vc
been keeping my eye out for one over
the past couple of years.”

Crew and audience alike felt the
performance was a success.

“The ballets were incredible,”
Willets said. “The level of perfor-
mance and the ability of the dancers
as well as their dedication showed
that years of training and labor had
gone into making them what they are.
it was amazing that they could do
something so hard so flawlessly.”

Fraternities . SI|l'0l'iIiBS
ﬂllllls Q sturlem arouns

Earn $1,000-$2,000 this semester with a proven CarnpusFundraiser
3 hour fundraising event. Our programs make fundraising easy
with no risks. Fundraising dates are ﬁlling quickly, so get with
the program! It works. Contact CampusFundraiser at (888) 923-
3238, or visit www.campusfundraiser.com

Monday

Tuesday

Thursday
Friday
. Saturday

 

Grand Opening Sept. 23-28
DAILY SPECIALS

25% off T-shirts
W&L Faculty and Staff

Mon-25% off entire purchase

25% off Hats and Visors
Wednesday 25% off Sweatshirts

25% off Shorts and Long Pants
25% off Jackets

25% off Golf and Oxford Shirts

Register to Win Nickel Creek Tickets
Theater at Lime Kiln Saturday, October5

15 W. Washington St.
464-3000

 

I

3'

‘4

 

3

 

TUESDAY, SEl’I'EMBER 24, 2002

SlE}ltKlil§I)lilDlTORlAL

And there was born to the University
Commons, and they wrapped him up
in swaddling clothes

The Phi approaches the University
Commons Building with fear and trem-
bling. Truly, an almost religious awe must
settle upon all students when they con-
template this shrine to interpersonal so-
cialization.

The Commons will heal all. It will erase
divisions between students, miraculously adjust-
ing the independent-Greek ratio to everyone’s

And it will be a place of true learning,
where the ringing voices of young scholars
bounce off the walls of this Fooze—B all-decked
Academy.

And hearty, delicious meals will be
regularly served up by the new Dining
Hall and the (is it French?) Emporium
Café.

What’s more, the new Student Health
Services will ensure a steady stream of
reformed alcoholics and lepers made
clean.

Not only that, but environments like the
Chavis Board Room will pay testimony to our
school’s rich heritage of racial diversity and
tolerance. Truly, if nothing else, this new Com-
mons will give a voice to those too often left
unheard. No one will be marginalized any
more.

However, the new building will not just
reshape the intellectual and social fabric of
our university. There will be room for play
as well. Yes, look for a “commons room”
with a fireplace, piano and extensive seat-
ing.

Security and Career Services Ofﬁces will
keep students safe as they land their dream
job.

In fact, incoming freshmen may be
tempted to stake out a puce-colored couch and
never leave. Like the Minoan labyrinth, the

Commons will host generations of wandering,

past students holding impromptu alumni meet-
ings in its halls.

Nor will students will not have to leave the
Commons when they die.

The Powers That Be have graciously
assented to grant the religious among us
a meeting room—that can be converted
into a chapel! For years, everyone has
been talking about the startling omission
of a University chapel. If only we had an
historic, attractive, distinctive place of
worship. Or if Lexington had a church or
two. Well, the Commons has given us a
place to pray.

So let’s all offer a prayer of thanks to the
university administration, for having the fore-
sight, and the courage, to solve all of our prob-
lems in one fell swoop.

THE RiNG—TUM PHI

PINIONS —

  

llvlRANNAEHvlLlIAH
OHnroNs EDITOR -
Er\l»\ll:I\liEIl\lllILilil@\ll/lll.El)ll

Secularists harm First Amenent

The First Amendment states
“Congress shall make no law respect-
ing an establishment of religion, or
prohibiting the free exercise thereof.”
This means that Congress does not
have the power to force religion on
anyone. It does not mean that the ju-
dicial system must protect people from
the inﬂuence of religion if the gov-
ernment is involved in even the most
rniniscule way.

Today, the separation of Church
and State has come to mean, not that
the government is forbidden from
adopting an ofﬁcial government reli-
gion which everyone is forced to prac-
tice as the First Amendment was origi-
nally intended, but that it is the
govemment’s responsibility to make
sure that any individual with the
slightest inclination against religion
is freed from its oppression if the gov-
ernment is in any way involved, fed-
erally, or even locally.

While people are banned from
prayer in government owned build-
ings and from using public funds for
anything that might be viewed as hav-
ing a remotely reli-
gious aspect, equally
vigilant and indoctri-
nated environmental-
ists and political organizations receive
millions of dollars in government fund-
ing to help spread and indoctiinate
others with their ideas.

Schools are allowed to teach chil-
dren that terrorists are attacking the
United States because their religion
tells that that they should, but when
a teacher goes so far as to teach the
passages from the Koran and show
in greater detail the reasoning behind
the terrorist actions the teacher can
be accused of advocating the terror-
ists’ point of view. Other important
current events are explained in the
vaguest terms possible so as not to
offend anyone. This lack of under-
standing by American’s publicly edu-
cated youth is not limited to the prob-
lems facing the United States, but they
remain largely uninformed about the
issues facing Israel’s relationship and
the Palestinian Authority, and even

 

V Bosnia.

The interpretation of the reli-

FREE THOUGHTS
RYAN 0wEN ‘O3

. . _ . . (DlJRIB\((FWWW._GOO(1)‘
STANDING TALL. Despite the ever increasing attacks on our liberties by liberal interest
groups, Lady Liberty continues to represent the values we hold dear.

gious aspect of the First Amendment
has recently had a constant presence
in the mass media. Every issue with a
remotely religious
connotation seems
to be blown out of
proportion, from
prayers before school board meetings
to the role of religion in the pledge of
allegiance, and even in health care
since religions have adopted abortion
as such an important aspect of their
faith. Issues that may not have ap-
pealed to the public in the past sud-
denly take on great importance when
a biased media constantly pushes
them.

Often the misinterpretation of the
laws is effectively and reasonably
skirted. School boards can change
their meeting times so that they meet
ﬁve minutes later than they did previ-
ously, yet anyone who wishes may
gather five minutes before the meet-
ing in order to pray. People who ﬁle
false vigilante lawsuits, such as
Michael Newdow’s effort to prevent
his daughter from hearing the words
“Under God” in the Pledge of Alle-
giance at school, seek not to uphold
the principles of the First Amendment,
but to exploit the overly subjective

interpretations of the Constitution our
justice system currently over engages
in. The words “Under God” obviously
no longer hold meaning, as they have
become more something we say than
something we believe.

The phrase “shall make no law”
has seemingly come to be interpreted
as do nothing, as many of the com-
plaints are against general practices
and not laws. Thus we should remem-
ber that the Constitution also says,
“or prohibiting the free exercise
thereof.” By banning groups from use
of public buildings based solely on
their purpose is a direct violation of
the law, not just the spirit. We cannot
and should not prevent religious or-
ganizations from existing, as they are
legally entitled and often serve the
public good.

I do not intend to take the side of
the religious groups and people who
feel they should have the right to con-
gregate, pray, and generally be free to
do whatever they wish whenever and
wherever they please, nor do I intend
to say that these religious groups
are infringing upon others with the

See RELIGION, page 4

Diversity education inadequate

Like most freshmen, by the end of orientation I was
excited about beginning classes, yet the question that
plagued me is one that I am sure plagued my fellow class-

mates, and that question is, “Am I truly

ready for what I am about to experience?”
Of course, one must take a certain amount
of personal ownership over the fact of
whether or not one is prepared. However,

FREsHMAH“l’ERsPEcTivE
DOUGIAS ALLEN ‘06

and the Student—Faculty Hearing Board, and the second was
devoted solely to the Honor System. By this time, the inten-
tions of the orientation had become painfully obvious.

I believe that it is accurate to say that

orientation does nearly everything that it is
supposed to do, and that it was a success.
I think that more discussion could have been
raised concerning the issue of diversity, con-

 
 

"l-':;rz.=':t;':'o>: N: 5.i.:= i;~<it'rv;.':‘iP

Editors in chief Katie J. Howell
Matthew B. McDermott
News Editor AndrewA.Latimer
Opinions Editor ImranNaeemullah
Arts & Life Editor Catherine C. Guy
Sports Editor Jeremy Franklin
Asst. Sports Editor Dave Crowell
Photo Editor Jeb Brooks
Photographers McQueen Calvert

Tallie Jamison
Paul Seifert
Thomas Worthy
Henry Grimball

THE

Business Manager
Asst. Business Manager
Circulation Director

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee Univer-

sity, Lexington, Virginia. The Washington and Lee Publi- -

cations Board elects the Editors in chief, but The Ring-
tum Phi is otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible subrnis-
sions and letters. All submissions must be e-mailed to
phi@wlu.edu or in the University Center mailbox by 5
p.m. Friday to appear in the following week’s edition. The
Ring-tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for con-
tent and length. Letters and columns do not necessarily
reﬂect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Ad-
vertising does not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi
or its staff. This newspaper observes current court deﬁni-
tions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Mailing Address: University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Street Address: 31 Washington Street
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Fax: (540) 462-4059
Email: phi@wlu.edu
http://phi.wlu.edu

Annual Subscription Rate: $35

 

orientation is used as a tool to make the transition from
high school to college an easier one. So, how effective of
a tool is orientation? As a freshman, retrospectively speak-
ing, I can say with conﬁdence that orientation did a nota-
bly good job of preparing all

sidering the fact that many see the lack of diversity on carn-
pus as a problem. It would please me to see the issue of
diversity addressed earlier in orientation, and not placed as
the dreaded last event on the last day of orientation. I ap-

plaud the university for address-

freshmen and new students for
the college experience.

After moving all of our be-
longings into our respective
dorms on August 31st, we were
immediately introduced to the
Honor System in our residence
hall meetings with our dorm coun-
selors. We were told what is and
what is not an Honor System vio-
lation. We were also warned that
there is only one punishment for
being found guilty of a violation
of the Honor System: one’s ex-
pulsion from the university. On
the second day of orientation,
President Burish officially welcomed us to the university.
In his address, we were once again made aware of the
greatness, tradition, and uniqueness of the W&L Honor
System. On the third day of orientation, the University Pro-
vost and Deans addressed the entire class of 2006 and the
Honor System was brought up once more. There was no new
information provided about the Honor System, but its impor-
tance was stressed as something not to be overlooked. On
the fourth day of orientation, Tuesday September 3”‘, two
very important gatherings took place. The ﬁrst was concem-
ing the Executive Committee, the Student Judicial Council,

Cownrn OF THE WEEK:

®l'KIBY G‘ WW/WZG(X)G.ECI)M

    

ing the issue the way that they did,
but the timing was wrong. I do un-
derstand that there were those who
had great discussion, and that the
entire affair was a success. How-
ever, my discussion group was not
so successful, and as a rrrinority
on this campus who will be dealing
with the issue head—on for the next
four years, I just was not satisﬁed.

Nonetheless, by the time of the
convocation and presidential inau-
guration, I personally began to feel
a part of the W&L community. If
this is so, then why was I plagued
with nervousness and apprehen-
sion? I can only credit those feelings to the fact thatl am like
the typical W&L student, an overachiever who only wants
to do the best that he or she can possibly do. There is no
doubt in my mind, though, that by the end of orientation,
every freshman and new student had an understanding of
just how special our honor system is. We all understood that
any type of violation of this system is strictly forbidden, and
will result in our immediate withdrawal from the university.
Once one understands and accepts these ideas, then and
only then can one be considered a Washington and Lee man
or woman.

ALL WET. Members of the Class o£°r2o‘(V>‘f)”a’§ffi

Dean Watkins assembled after the First Annual
Bridge Jumping activity.

  Gerharrl,Schrode ,  
German Chancellor Gerhard Schroder won re-election to another four-year term this past Sunday. That’s too bad for Germany, and
too bad for the world. Schroder is an unabashed panderer to interest groups, rallying against U.S. invasion of Iraq at the last minute in
order to pick up votes from liberal Germans. The Bush administration, quite rightly, reacted coolly to Schroder’s re-election, and did not
botherto mentionhimby name or congratulate himin arecent armouncement This is in marked contrast to the hearty felicitations offered
French President Jacques Chirac, a center-right politician, uponhis re-election in May. Those surprised by this seemingly spiteful move ‘
may consider the words of Schroder’s justice minister, Herta Daeubla-Grnelin, who accused the Bush administration of seeking war with
Iraq in order to distract from domestic issues. Her exact words, in fact, were these: “That’s a popular method. Even Hitler did that.” :
Comparing President Bush to the man responsible for the ravaging of Europe and the death of countless millions of irmocent  and '
soldiers is absolutely ridiculous coming from anybody. Coming from the mouth of aliigh-ranking ofﬁcial in a supposed ally is simply j
frightening, and made all the more so considering that Schroder didn’t denounce the statement. Here’s to hoping that Schroder’s f

«have given me the brush off.

Speaking traditioprim
declines further
will each W&L class

Despite the exhorlations of class t-shirts,
fewer people practice Gen. Lee’s legacy-

.\.-rA.¢.;.;:a'.I\IsAA.

A ‘a as.-n.u_n.1:;,:

There is no “SPEAK” written on the back on thei.
Freshman Orientation t—shirt I received as a freshman. ‘
There was no need for it back then Instead, the back’
of my shirt had a white Trident on it, roughly the size r
of Graham—Lees,

     

   
on campus would 2 WWEAILA COEN ‘04

say “hello” to me
on a fairly regular basis.

Unfortunately, the classes of 2005 and 2006 do‘
own shirts that bear this very necessary verb, and as
a junior, I have noticed a steady decline in one of
W&L’s most important traditions. If the administra-
tion were to give the ax to the Mock Convention, FD
or the hallowed Honor System, W&L students would
be angrier then they would have been if Al Gore be-
came president. However, the verbal apathy that is
destroying our speaking tradition (yet continues to
be touted by admissions as a selling point) seems to
go unnoticed and needs to be addressed by some-
one.

Washington and Lee is a school known for its
friendly student body. When someone who you don’t
know very well takes the time to smile and say “hello,”
you instantly feel a little bit better, about both the school
you have chosen
to attend and
yourself.

When some-
one does not
even display the
simple courtesy
to respond to a
simple hello, I
cannot help but
feel discouraged
about the lack of
‘southern hospi-
tality’ that ini-
tially drew me to
this school. I will
admit, when I’m
at home in Bos-
ton, I restrain my-
self from greeting
any and all people I run into in public places, yet I feel
that the small southern community of Lexington and
the even smaller microcosm of W&L are both condu-
cive to such courteous behavior.

W&L is the sort of small school where if you
sneeze, everyone on campus knows the where,
when, why and how of this alleged sneeze, five"
minutes later. It’s safe to say that even if you don’t ,
know someone’s name, you either have seen him.’
or her before or will see them again in the future. 
Since we all see so much of each other, its extremely 5
rude not to acknowledge one another as we pass:
on the Hill. I

I am not advocating anyone to start greeting?
large groups of people en masse with continuous;
hellos, but I for one am sick of trying to say “hi” V
to the one person within a ten foot radius of me in:
that construction area and having him or her pur— Z
posely avoid eye contact. Have the students ati
this school become so socially awkward that we?
cannot even verbally recognize each other in the;
spirit of informal camaraderie? Even professors:

it .

THE FOUNDER. Roben(El4Lee would
surely not approve of the decline in
the Speaking Tradition.

It’s gotten to the point where I will gladly ac- 1
cept a curt nod from someone, since it’s a lot friend- ,
lier than the grunt/scowl combination I received.
from someone the other day. Wearing sunglasses;
on the Hill has become crucial so that I can dis-
creetly roll my eyes to the point where my con-
tacts are about to fall out after the third person in
a row I’ve passed has completely ignored the
speaking tradition.

W&L is a small school ensconced in tradi-
tion, something that sets us apart from other col-
leges and universities. If students applied the
same fervor they apply to Alumni Weekend,
Foxfield races and the upcoming Homecoming
festivities to the speaking tradition, there would
be no need for me to even write this article. Out
of basic school spirit, I implore the classes of
2006, 2005, 2004, and 2003 for that matter, to speak
up and preserve the gentility that has been a way
of life at Washington and Lee since time imme-
morial.

 
   

conservative opponent, Edmund Stoiber (who barely lost). was 11' ght when he said that Schroder’s government won’t last long.

 

 

    

' K.\«. at rt: l-‘*2 it

_ _     _Oi3iN1oNs
Militant feminists threaten

golf club, personal freedoms

PAGE 4

 e"

i+iotocoLiursx'orwW.c<xx;r.EcoM
BYGONE RELICS. Despite the enormous gains made by women’s rights groups in the past-century, such as these civil rights
activists from the l960’s, certain women’s groups today ﬁght for unnecessary causes. They fail to realize that the battles of

yesteryear need no longer be fought. They are, in essence, preserving bygone relics, ideas which have already been implemented.

 

TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 24, 2002‘

Brett Ieams to speak Eng

During my time in the worker’s
paradise that is China, I’m residing at
Beijing Foreign Studies University, an
institution wholly dedicated to edu-
cating Chinese students to work with
and in the outside world. In fact, ev-
ery student in Chinese schools, and
especially those at BFSU, must study
English. Most I have met speak it
pretty well— many have taken seven
or more years of the  P
language. 

China is fasci— if
nated by English. All
government signs are printed in both
languages and any company wishing
to enhance its products’ appeal just
slaps a sentence or two on the pack-
aging. Needless to say, these at-
tempts are not always successful.

Across the street (meaning
across six lanes with an elevated ex-
pressway in the center, which is al-
ways choked with buses, taxis, bi-
cycles and pedestrians) from campus,
for example, one can shop for school
supplies at Oﬁce [sic] Max. The prod-
ucts’ packaging advertises their qual-
ity. One spiral notebook is “the better
business communication.” Another
claims “The number 12 is sweet—I
live to hear your voice at midnight.”
A third is “For 1000 years new hope.”
Why else would anyone buy a note-
book? In fact, it’s “the most con1fort-
able writing pad you have ever run

  

   Liaii;¢riiicHiii;iii
 BRE;'F_1§,1.1.<_\W'fi.).‘l,.-

into. You’ll feel like writing with it all
time.” Be careful, you might become
addicted.

Next door, check out the selec-
tion of DVD’s the U.S. Copyright of-
fice and Hollywood hate so much.
How about all three G0dfather’s for
only $3.50? Perhaps, Harry Potter, the
back of which boasts the blurb for an-
other movie: “Jackson pollacke’s is
the Greatest living
fainter in the uniuec
states . . . Hope ev-
’ erybody can watch
this film quick, since that you maybe
ﬁnd a different ﬁle, another world, let’s
go to see quickly.”

Maybe Ocean ’s Eleven, billed as
“Greta Nosferatu’s Leading Lady!”

How about Star Wars: Attack of
the Clones, “Improbity trade the fed-
eral strike against the nape of the star
the empress ten years, day that own
the not of the common run power line
peaceful anner the gold grow upped
and become a hero juedy warrior.”
Your guess is a good as mine.

Finally, try Quills, “a cademy
ward winncrs geoffrey rush and
midhad cany jom . . . rush gived a
tough de force percepaer for mance
as history’s most rnfmans sexnal ad-
venturer . . .”

Next stop, the department store
up the street. A shirt everyone
should own boldly proclaims “I

ish, the Chinese way ‘

LOVE TRANCE, DRUM N’ BASE

AND PUNK BUT POP MUSIC IS r‘

VERY SUCKS, ESPECIALLY BOY
BAND WHICH MAKE ME WANT
TO PUKEAND SOIVIETIMES IDO.”

Truer words were never written. A

Speaking of which, one can pur-
chase a pack of Sanai brand Puke-
playing cards that is. Other styles
of T-shirt include, the “100% feel,”

“Naturally Jo-Jo” and “I never stop »

loving.”

Wander downstairs to the su-
permarket and after picking up your
eel, beef intestines and fish eye-
balls, why not buy some meat ﬂoss
biscuits, or “Big Eat— All Day Break-
fast in a Can.” Wash it all down
with some WaHaHa spring water,
Qoo orange drink, Ice Dew, or even
Jim Beam & Cola, pre-rnixed, in the
can!

Late nights, the place in Beijing
for foreigners to be is on Nanjie in the
Embassy District. Whet your whistle
at Durty Nellie’s, a “real” Irish pub,
Pure Girl, One Bar, Rainbow Time, or
Nashville, for a slice of Tennessee.
Closer to school, try out M’Adanna,
Tony’s Bar, Coffee Salon, or Magic

Rock. What’ll you drink, how about a .

B-57, grasshoper, nanhatten, or
Budweeser?

But hey, at least they’re trying.
Beijing English is a helluva lot better
than my Chinese.

Womens group takes aim atAugusta
National Golf Clubs membership requirements

This fall, as the golf season comes to an end, an
issue which has plagued sports news for the past four
months ought to follow suit. Since mid—June, Dr.
Martha Burk, chairman of the NCWO (N a-
tional Council of Women’s Organizations),
has aggressively lobbied for Augusta Na-
tional Golf Club to admit a woman mem-
ber. She has argued that as the host of
the nation’s premier golf event, the Masters, Augusta
bears a responsibility to discourage fervently discrimi-
nation of any kind. Hootie Johnson, chairman of the
club, has adamantly refused to yield to the group’s
constant threats of sponsor, player and television boy-
cott. He has refused even to discuss the club’s mem-
bership policy, and added that any change “will not
come at the point of a bayonet.”

This debate, or, perhaps more accurately, debacle,
is a classic example of a situation blown grossly and
incorrectly out of proportion. Simply put, Dr. Burk has
a very poor argument, which represents nothing more
than histrionics and aggressive, misplaced feminism.

First of all, Augusta National, as a private entity,
has the legal right to discriminate against women mem-
bership. Realizing this, Dr. Burk has attempted to dem-
onstrate the moral questionability of Augusta’s exclu-
sive membership policy.

However, the fact that Augusta chooses to main-
tain an all male membership in no way indicates ethi-
cal foul play. There is absolutely nothing inherently
wrong or evil with creating a club or organization that
exists solely for one sex. Examples of private institu-
tions with sexually exclusive membership are every-
where. In fact, as pointed out in Rick Reilly’s recent
Sports Illustrated column, a golf club in Toronto per-
mits only women memberships. Doesn’t a club which
contains only males or only females simply reﬂect the
desire of its members to have the choice to spend time
with people who share a common bond? “Our mem-
bers are people who enjoy each other’s company and
the game of golf,” Mr. Johnson stated in a press re-
lease. W&L, for instance, has fraternities and sorori-
ties. The absurdity of this situation could be com-
pared to a group making a fuss out of the sexually
exclusive aspect of Greek life.

The relationship between Augusta’s membership
policy and hosting of the Masters would be perti-
nent only if it somehow used the tournament to pro-

   

mote all male propaganda and sexist remarks. But noth- ~

ing of the sort occurs. Contrastingly, Augusta openly
supports women’s rights and even supports the
NCWO. As Mr. Johnson remarked, “We are not un-
mindful of the good work undertaken by Dr. Burk’s
organization in global human rights, Social Security
reform, reproductive health, education, spousal abuse
and workplace equity, among others. We are there-
fore puzzled as to why they have targeted our pri-
vate golf club.” In addition, the club discriminates

against women only in membership and not in play-
ing of the course. Last year, for example, women
played over a thousand rounds of golf at Augusta.
Throughout this saga, Dr. Burk has acted in an
excessively contentious fashion. She aggressively
pressured the Master’s television sponsors to boy-
cott to the point that Augusta voluntarily dropped
them all and will cover the cost itself. In addition,
she asked CBS to refuse to televise

 CORNER the Masters. Of course, CBS ﬂatly
DONNY BANKS ‘06 g

declined. She has even pressured the
players themselves to abstain from
participating in the 2003 event. Will
any of them actually boycott? Let’s be serious.

Through all of her extreme undertakings in re-
gard to this essentially insignificant matter, Dr. Burk’s
only intends to create a sensationalistic stir by pre-
senting specious arguments that make the members
of Augusta National appear as insensitive bigots.
She has tried to create an environment which associ-
ates supporting Augusta’s stance with sexism. But
this is entirely unfair and wrong. Supporting Augusta
on this issue simply implies an understanding that
an all male club is legal and perfectly acceptable. She
falsely assumes that an all male club must be sexist.
Ironically, she is doing more of an injustice to women
than is, putatively, Augusta by focusing too much of
her time on this non issue and thus limiting the pub-
licity she can give to truly significant, pressing mat-
ters for women. As tour player Scott Verplank suc-
cinctly put it: “Why is she worried about a lady that’s
worth 2 billion being a member at a golf club? If she’s
really worried about advancing women’s rights, she
should be in Afghanistan helping people that are
treated like animals.”

I, for one, feel sorry for Augusta National for its
position as the victim of an overzealous, irrational
political activist. I admire the club for obstinately
resisting to concede to an illogical, ad hominem at-
tack on their private club which has a legal and even
ethical right to choose its members as it sees fit. I
only hope that the liberal media will cease to per-
petuate this matter which ought never to have made
it to this stage.

OPPOKIUNISTIC
ZEA101‘.Blindedby
her own pursuit of
power,Martiia
Bud: is attempting
to force Augusta to
take actions it need
not

 

Pl-l0l0(DURlESYOl-‘ Ww':coocrr.coM

RELIGION: secularists undermine its practice

RELIGION, from page 3

rights they have been guaran-
teed. As with so many other issues
we as Americans are faced with
both sides are right, and both sides
are wrong.

Organized religion must realize
when they are intruding into the lives
of those who do not share their beliefs
and value systems. These organiza-
tions need to take some self—ir1itiatives
and make their best attempt not to in-
terfere in government unless the harm
is inﬂicted directly upon the church. It
is not their place to protect the unborn
children of people who believe that an
abortion is the mother’s choice.

The church need better worry
about protecting the lives of its mem-

bers, in seeing that they are not emo-
tionally harmed in a way many con-
sider to be worse than death.

In order to protect organized reli-
gion from itself, they must also realize
that just as they wish to monitor and
inﬂuence the government, the govem-
ment sometimes feels it is necessary
to look over their shoulders to ensure
that they are not taking advantage of
their protected social status.

Religious organizations need to
be willing to take the first step in both
these matters as they are of utmost im-
portance, and it is more easily initiated
from their side of the confrontation.

The government itself is not able
to initiate these same concentrated
decisions, as it does not have a con-
stant leadership that is able to inﬂu-

ence all other braches due to its
changing and federalist nature as
well as the structure of the justice
system. However, it is the responsi-
bility of each and every individual
citizen to make the decisions that lead
to the best outcome for everyone;
obviously this is too much to ask.

Yet a change for the better
would be possible if the media were
to use its ability to apply societal
pressures and change American
opinion, not just in the way that
leads to the best ratings or the
most self— glorification.
In evolving in this manner the
country would be better off, as the
number of frivolous lawsuits with
costs borne by the government
and its taxnavers is reduced.

Al Gore needs

Nearly two years have passed since the Presiden-
tial election debacle in Florida in which for thirty—six
long days, Americans were just on edge about who
would become the nation’s 43"‘ President. As we saw
the electoral and the “legal” process grind its way out
in the Sunshine State, I could vividly remember the
plea from then-Vice President Al Gore to “count every
vote in order to not undermine the voice of the people.”
“The voices of the people have spoken and I am ready
to be their President-elect,” said then—  _
Governor George W. Bush of Texas  
readily appealing on the TV. I was out—  1‘.
raged but relieved at the 5-4 Supreme 
Court decision to halt the recount ef-
forts — for the Court for giving a blind judgment to
situation that, in my opinion, was not in their jurisdic-
tion but knowing that there was finality in the matter.
On January 20 of last year, my heart went out to the
Gore/Lieberman ticket for being on the outside look-
ing in.

How do I feel about President Bush? I think he is
an average President. I do agree with him on the stances
of education and with proposed changes to welfare
reform. We must leave no child left behind and must
produce self-sufficient Americans provided if the
changes are not counterproductive and based on rea-
sonable evidence and total bipartisan support. I would
also like to commend the President for his effective
leadership during the terrorist attacks on September
11, 2001.

Now, with my pleasantries out of the way, this
Administration has to look at the present status of
our nation. A sagging economy, questionable
stances on the environment (not to mention civil
liberties) and their apparent rule bending of the ac-
counting reforms that both parties agreed upon in
light of the scandals taking place with corporate

ﬂ

  

 

another chance

giants such as Enron, WorldCom, and Qwest have i

cast a serious doubt on this upbeat administration.

In order for the President to garner his reelection, ‘
he has to come more to the center on issues that are '
presently plaguing this country as we speak. I fully 

understand that the present economic slowdown
that occurred during the Clinton Administration but

the Bush Tax Plan has not worked yet in providing '

gradual economic relief. We need a more balanced
view coming from an Administration

j_.   and its President who campaigned on

his popular bipartisanship results in

  106 

The question that the Democratic
Party must answer in due time is, “Does Al Gore
deserve a chance to become the Presidential nomi-
nee in 2004?” My answer? Yes! For one, he has ma-
jor name recognition that should allow him some
‘ maneuvering room in the crowded field in the Demo-
cratic primaries. Second, ifI got up every morning
knowing that I won the popular vote by over a half-
million votes, do you think I would be sitting on my
derriere come 2004? Gore has been very visible in
the news questioning as well as voicing his opinion
about the apparent neglect of the working people
and their priorities in exchange giving the “power-
ful” access to hear their needs. The only thing that
Gore must do in order to seal up his bid to make
1600 Pennsylvania Avenue his place of residence is
to have Tennessee, West Virginia, Arkansas (my
home state), and a Midwestern state (possibly Ohio)
fall under his column. He has to appeal more to the
southern voters in order to assure this scenario of
happening. The first three states mentioned have
been Democratic strongholds for years during presi-
dential elections. If not, let us get ready for Part II
of the Bush Administration. Good luck, Al.

Men’s and Women’siSportswear,    
Outerwear, and Fly Fishing Products    

Now Available in Lexington!

Only at: ’ V
Reel Time Fly Fishing 8: Outfitter
23 West Washington St.
Lexington, VA 24450
462-6100
www.reeltimeflyfishing.com

 4. ~U$ﬂbA‘§!.eO-lIhoﬁi‘uL@fA Jt.0i\\lEIa.-itlﬁﬁi-.k.=2'rn! OPJGM-.l..r".§:iDI. 3\ o&l<I$ﬂi 

l

 

 

  

s
PAGE 5

RTS

 

Pi

fl , Ann‘&Lii?i€Ennr>R
 «7d"{W>»W»r>V _i""»W"ir»7 7  ,7 WW   if if 7 7 E\l\llj(}L’Y(I@\\l1’.liDl'
TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 24, 2002

Tillil R.lN'(%-’i"Ulvl.

  

L.\liil7.iti.\l£l..bLl

Panhellenic plans increased pre—recruitment activity for the fall
Dinner at the sorority houses introduces freshmen and upperclassmen women, but meets with mixed opinions

BY MCQUEEN CALVERT
srirr WRITER

Sorority recruitment is off and
tunning once again. Unlike men
participating in fraternity
recruitment, women involved with
sorority recruitment are forced to
have in accordance with very strict
‘rules. Upperclassmen sorority
women and freshmen potential
members are not allowed to exchange
money or buy each other presents,
(and all rush related events must be
dry. Also, upperclassmen are not
allowed to talk to freshmen about
other sororities in any way that could
be construed as derogatory, nor are
they allowed to express an interest
in a particular freshmen as a potential

member.
As a result, many freshmen

ifeel justifiably confused about

sorority recruitment. They receive
guidance from Rho Chis, who
temporarily deaffiliate from their

‘sororities and act as impartial and

compassionate counselors to the
freshmen.

This year, the Panhellenic
Council, which acts as the governing

!body for Washington and Lee’s ﬁve

sororities, decided to plan more
activities for the freshmen girls during
informal rush.

In past years, these activities were
quite limited and took place only on
rare occasion. Two years ago,
Panhellenic sponsored ‘Meet the
Greeks’, which occurred onaThursday

,1 afternoon. Interested freshmen women

met with upperclassmen in sororities
in front of Doremus and were given
snacks. Also, upon the dedication of
the houses in October, 2000, an open

‘house was held in which freshmen

could enter the houses for the first and
last time before formal rush. Last year,
‘Meet the Greeks’ was a one evening
affair in which freshmen were given
tours of the houses and given the
opportunity to meet upperclassmen.
This year, however, there will be
several events in the upcoming

-1 weeks of fall term, which will occur

in order to give the women a chance
to meet and become better
acquainted in an non—party or
academic atmosphere.

Panhellenic held a workshop last
March called ‘Something of Value’, in
which participants discussed issues
that many Washington and Lee females,

I and particularly freshmen girls, dealt

with. Since freshmen girls complained
about not being able to meet many older
girls, at least in a sober environment,
this new plan was decided on.

The first event of the event
of the fall was last Thursday
night. The freshmen were divided
up into five groups, by their hall,

and each group went to a different
sorority house for a sit down
dinner. The sorority girls were all
split up, so that each of the five
sororities was represented equally
at each house.” This event allowed
the freshmento meet some girls
from each sorority in a relaxed,
sober environment, as well as a
peek into sorority life. They got
to see the houses, and enjoy the
food, which in no way compares
to what they have been fasting on
in the D—Hall!

Panhellenic Council recruitment
chair and junior Mary Butler Stone
said that the idea to expand the
“Meet the Greeks” process is due
to the interest of last year’s
freshmen class, who felt intimidated
by rush and inadequately prepared
by the one “Meet the Greeks”
function held last fall. She feels that
the evening was, overall, a success.
“I’m getting a lot of positive
feedback from the freshmen. They
really enjoyed having the chance to

see the houses and eat a good
meal.” She is pleased with the event
and looks forward to similar success
with later functions.

Despite the good intentions of all
involved, some of the participants were

not enthusiastic about the outcome of .

evening’s activities. Junior and active
sorority member Maren Garval stated
that “I think that it was a contrived
social setting that introduced the
awkwardness of formal rush earlier
than was necessary. It was
uncomfortable for both the actives and
the freshmen.” She does not feel that
the dinner was particularly productive.

The next event is scheduled for
the first of October, and hopefully
these events will help the freshmen
become more comfortable with the
recruitment process.

Formal recruitment begins in
January, during the first week of
winter term classes. Hopefully,
Panhellenic’s new schedule will
make this process more enjoyable
for all.

‘Go to the movies! This week’s schedule:
~Washington Rgangke

I

#

I

and Lee

W&L Film Society:
Friday, 9/27- “Monster’s Ball”,
7:30
Saturday, 9/28- “Monster’s
Ball”, 7:30
Troubador Theatre

Politics Filmfest:
Friday, 9/27- “Burn!”, all day
Wﬂliarns School, room 221

Spanish House Movie:
Friday, 9/27- TBA ﬁlm, 8:00
Spanish House

Lexington

The following movies are currently
being shown at the:
State Theatre
12 West Nelson St.

These times are for Tuesday
through Thursday, 9/24-26.

“Ballistic: Ecks vs. Sever”-
7: 15
“My Big Fat Greek Wedding”-
7: 10
“Road to Perdition”- 7:00

The following movies are
currently being shown at the:
Valley View Grande

4730 Valley View Boulevard
Roanoke, VA 24012

Austin Powers— 1:25, 4, 7:15, 9:45
Ballistic: Ecks vs. Sever— 1:30,
4:20, 7220,10

The Banger Sisters-1, 3:45,
7:05, 9:30

Barbershop—l2:45, 3, 6:30, 9
Blue Crush- 1:25, 4:05, 7:25, 9:45
Cityby the Sea— 12:40, 6:45

The Four Feathers- 12:30, 3: 15,
7, 9:50

Feardotcom— 2:35, 5, 7:25, 9:50
The Good Girl-3:20, 9:15
TheMasterofDisguise-3:40, 5:30
My Big Fat Greek Wedding-
1:15, 4, 7:30, 10:10

One Hour Photo- 1 :40, 4:20,
7:10, 10

Signs-12:30, 3:15, 6:45, 9:15
Spy Kids 2- 12:45, 3:20, 5:45, 8:15
Stealing Harvard- 1:30, 4:10,
7:10, 9:20

Swirnfan- 12:50, 3, 7, 9:10
Trapped- 1:15, 4:10, 7:25, 9:50
XXX— 1, 3:40, 6:50, 9:30

Charlottesville

The following movies are
currently being shown at the:
Regal Downtown Mall 6
200 West Main
Charlottesville, VA 22902

The Four Feathers- 1:45, 4:20,
7, 9:40

The Good Girl- 2:30, 4:45, 7:45,
10

My Big Fat Greek Wedding-
2:45, 5, 7:30, 9:50

One Hour Photo- 2:15, 4:30,
7:15,9:30

Spy Kids 2: The Island of Lost
Dreams- 2130,4230, 7

SwirI1fan- 9:15

Trapped- 1:45, 4, 6:45, 9

  

 

_]r:E BRKX '\\i) .\l< Qt i r\‘ (, \i \'i'it {Ni-i1'.\I Plil

Professor to discuss talmudic argument

RICHARD MARKS
PR()l’ESS()R or RE1.i<;1<>x, \X’.\sH1xr;'i'o.\' ixn l.i~:i~: UXi\'l7.R.\‘l'i\'

“The Art of Talmudic Argument: Introduction to a
Classical Jewish Text” will be the title of a talk to be
given by Professor Elizabeth Shanks Alexander on
Monday, Oct. 7.

It will begin at 7:00 pm in Room 221 of the
Williams School of Commerce at Washington and Lee
University.

Alexander teaches in both the Department of
Religion and the Jewish Studies Program at the
University of Virginia. Some of the many courses she
teaches there include ‘Great Books in the Jewish
Tradition,’ ‘Law in Judaism,’ ‘Introduction to Talmud,’
‘Women in Classical Jewish Sources,’ and ‘Orality,
Tradition, and Religion’.

Alexander earned her B.A. at Haverford College,
as well as three degrees, an M.A., Master of
Philosophy, and a Ph.D., at Yale University. She
taught at Smith College until moving to the
University of Virginia in 2000.

In her research Alexander explores literary questions
of how the Talmud (a large collection of rabbinic traditions
dating generally from the Roman period) constructs its

  

Gerald M. Titus, Ill
President

Kempton W. Presley
Vice President

Helen B. Hughes
Secretary

A member of the Student
Body has withdrawn after
being found guilty of an
Honor Violation. The
student took another’s
work from the Internet
and submitted it as his/her
own for a Religion paper.

In response to student
requests, the Executive
Committee has decided to

meaning.

She is particularly interested in examining that which
is aesthetic in talmudic argumentation, in tracing the
rabbinic use of metaphors, and in investigating the effect
of oral transmission on the way traditions are received
and understood.

This last issue is the topic of her current book—length
project entitled Transmitting Text, Transforming
Tradition.

Two of her many articles are ‘Considering Evil: Art,
Argument, and Ambiguity in the Sukkah; (a page of the
Talmud)’, and ‘The Impact of Feminism on Rabbinic
Studies’.

Her most recent conference papers dealt with
‘Reading Women in Rabbinic Literature: The
Achievements and Challenges of Feminist
Criticism’ and ‘Investing Textuality, Inventing the
Mishnah.’

The general public is cordially invited to attend
Professor Alexander’s lecture, and there is no entrance
fee. '

This upcoming lecture will be sponsored jointly by
the Department of Religion here at Washington and Lee
University and through the Max and Sylvia Weinstein
Memorial Fund.

tut it'll-.\’\ i‘)"i(i x

COME CHEER FOR WASHINGTON AND LEE. Students enjoy Homecoming festivities
at Washington and Lee in 1978, complete with a Confederate Flag

renew its practice of posting
Student Body notices in the
campus newspaper.

Have a life? Write about it.
Call C.C. Guy at”x4060.

 

    
 

  

PAGE 6

 

Mexican food without frills or fuss will be

 & L 413

  

I

TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 24, 2002

l

 

 

are great enough to deter those who are sick of the’!

Don Tequila offers no surprise heap food "

light on students’ wallets and tastebuds

BY ANDREW LATIMER AND MARK ALLEN
NEWS EDITOR AND STATE WRITER

In just about every respect, Lexington’s newest addi-
tion, Don Tequila, represents the quintessential col-
lege restaurant. Chances are, if you’re the average
hungry Washington and Lee student on a budget,
you’re looking for cheap food, an unpretentious at-
mosphere and a fine selection of no—frills Mexican
fare. But could the highly anticipated Don impress
a Texan?

Our visit turned out to be a story of compromises.
Sure, the chips and salsa were free and unlimited,
yet to the discriminating Texan palate they were
“cardboard.” Or
you got a selec-
tion of five enchi-
ladas, but only
three were good.

As for the
chicken served at
Don Tequila, its
quality, sadly, did
not surpass din-
ing hall-levels by
all that wide of a
margin. So much
for the alleged “au-
thentic” Mexican

STILL, NOBODY CAN
ARGUE AGAINST A
CHANGE OF PACE IN
METRO-LEX. . .NO
REASON IS GREAT ENOUGH
TO DETER THOSE WHO
ARE SICK OF EATING THE
SAME OLD MEAL FROM
THE SAME HANDFUL OF
LEXINGTON KITCHENS.

food.

Still, nobody can argue against a change of pace
in the food offerings here in Metro-Lex. Don Te-
quila may never compete head-to-head with the
well-established Palms, given its relatively early
closing time of 10:30 p.m. on weekends, lack of a bar
and less intimate atmosphere.

technical

BY SAM LAGRONE term

A BR / the Ring-tum Iw

AY CARUMBA! Lexingtorfs newest food establishment, Don Tequila, located on Nelson St., offers decent Mexican food at a

very affordable price.

Perhaps the biggest sin of all, there’s no televi-
sion to crowd around for a game of non-American
football.

Being a young establishment, Don Tequila suf-
fers from a lack of charm. For instance, take the som-

 

iS, “freaking concrete.

breros off the white stucco walls and you’ve got a
pizza parlor. The restaurant also attracts a number
of families, which may or may not matter to certain
students.

However, none of these aforementioned reasons

  

same old meal from the same old handful of Lexing-
ton limited kitchens. No one can argue with Don
Tequila’s list of thirty filling dinner combos for $6.25,
not even Taco Bell. Be sure to take advantage of the
$2.99 lunch special, a dealjust too good to pass up;

This is definitely the place to take five or six of
your good friends
in order to obtain
a cheap and filling
weekend meal be-
fore heading out
to a party. No need
to call ahead for
reservations, but
don’t be surprised if the waiting area is filled during
peak dinner hours on weekends or even on week-
days

Not too far down the road, we can see Don Te-I
quila being to Mexican food what the neighboring
Frank’s is to Italian food. You’ll get a much better
meal if you go to Roanoke, yet it will never be nearly
as nice to your wallet. For the time being, Dons
Tequila’s the only real game in town for Mexican
food after El Puerto’s #11 tragically shut its doors
last year.

A word of warning to those over 21: you’ll see a
decent selection of Corona, Dos Equis and Modelo V
Especial on the menu at $2.50 a bottle, as well as a
rudimentary wine list, but you can’t be served until
Don Tequila’s liquor license takes effect.

And don’t even think of charging that meal to
your credit card. For the time being, it’s checks and
cash only.

In any case, we see a future for Ramon Munoz
and his lively south-of-the-border taste. Our guess
is that a good deal of students will find themselves A‘
working Don Tequila into their lunch or dinner rou-
tine by the end of Fall Term.

Tell them that we sent you!

YOU’LL GET A MUCH
BETTER MEAL IF YOU Go 10
TO ROANOKE, YET IT
WILL NEVER BE NEARLY AS
NICE TO YOUR WALLET. ,

 

 

 

\'Ml DESK
Barracks: Partl

The most eye catching building
on Virginia Military Institute’s sterile
post is the Barracks. Not for its
aesthetic value, that’s for sure. It
looks like something EdgarAllan Poe
would have designed if he took his
flair for tortuous depression into
student housing.

The color is not the best either. If
the textured beige could talk it would
say in a raspy, nightmarish voice,
“There is no fun contained within
ever...we’re serious...and we’re
watching you.”

It’s the size that matters. The
building is massive. I think the

ginormous.”

Barracks, (spoken in the hallowed
tones reserved for Such other ancient
and adored relics as the Acropolis,
Monticello or The Rolling Stones,) is
ﬁve stories tall, and on its widest side,
at least 150 yards long.

According to the Princeton
review, Barracks is considered to be a
form of on-campus—housing. But
when I think “on—campus housing,”
images of cute loft beds and names
on the door written on “Hello Kitty”
stationary pop in my head.

Our version is more like the
interior of a federal correction facility.

The rooms are organized into
ruler perfect rows on an open stoop
that looks out into a courtyard of

 

HAPPY 215T BIRTHDAY
KATIE HowELL!

Love,
your‘ friends CCG,
AL, JB, MM, JF,
DC & BK

Are your Sunday
nights and Mon-
day mornings
lad<ing activity?
Looking for some-
thing new and
exciting? Write
for the Ring—tum
Hri!

(I)

Not surprisingly, the rooms are
pretty tight. My roommates and I are
lucky. There are three of us in a room
that’s 20 by 16 feet. That’s a deluxe
accommodation here at VMI. During
my first year I lived in a room about
the same size with three other guys.

Barracks is split into two—parts.
The names lack the class and
distinction of Washington and Lee’s.
Instead of Gilliam or Davis Dormitory,
there are the creatively named Old
Barracks and New Barracks.

Old Barracks was built in 1851 to
house the growing cadet population.
It was up for a grand total of 13 years
before a certain angry northern man
by the name of General Hunter came
through Lexington and razed the

     

 

as ' -
.. ~.»._  r .-or-v‘-r
 e*~A> *  ‘R R

building in 1864 (there’s still some ‘
cannon balls in the back of Barracks.)
New Barracks, which is located
on the left—hand side, was tacked in
1949 adding accommodation for about _ Q
double the number of cadets. There’s
a strange rivalry between Old and
New Barracks. A shared staircase
joins the two quads and on the wall
there are a series of bulletin boards. , Aw I
0116 3/631 a group Of Cadets f0l’IT19d EIIII:/,/’\uuv.E.iAGEs|otRNAI..roM/ISSLEOZ/lEAiLRES/RIIBDNJHM
the“ ewB cks L' ration nt,” ' - ' ' 99
and §,,,,,,d“,",,‘;‘,d,,,,ﬁ,b‘*W,,,d $5; H Russian Film Series shows “Prisoner
propaganda posters with catch . _ s
phrases like, “Take up your arms, Old FROM STAFF RE£_0RTS The ﬁlm was shot with a Russian
Barracks rs oorruugmn  cast and native Muslim volunteers on
That proved pretty popular’ but On Thursday,NS.eptember 19, the location in the Caucasus mountain
the most famous VMI quotation rs German and Russian Departments region in Dagestan Republic, only 300
from Confederate General Thomas hosted a screening of the 1996 ﬁlm km. from actual combat. Director 3.
«storrewauas Jackson. It is Written in “Prisonerof the Caucasus”fol1owed by SergeiBodrove was almost kidnapped
austere letters over the main entrance a discussion. The movie was a part of by his own Chechen bodyguards
to the Virginia Military Institute theW&LFall2002RussianFilmSeries. during ﬁlming. Wide-angle camera
barracks: «You may be whatever you The film updates Lev Tolstoy’s shots of rebel enclaves make for '
resolve to be» short story by the same title to panoramic beauty and highlight the
Itas an inspiration to an of us today’s Russo—Chechen wars. It was rebels’ geographic advantage.
Cadets as we walk into the errtrarree made following the “first” Chechen The ﬁlm won the 1996 Carmes
named after the General’ because for war of 1994 that ended inahurniliating International Critics Prize and
some strange reason We have Russian pulloutfrom Chechnya. This Audience Award, the Felix Best ,1
resolved to pay to live in J-arr ﬁlm is more conciliatory than Moscow Screenplay, the Sydney Film Festival’s
Contact Sam LaGrouer prefers, especially after the “second” Best Film, and Best Foreign Language
lagr0nesr@mm.l.vml.redu war began under Putin. Film Oscar nomination.
Q
66 ' ‘ ' 93
Our motto-is We do It with the lights on. r
Our performance space in Staunton is BlaCl(fI‘laI‘S PlayllOllSe,
the world’s only re-creation of Shakespeare's indoor theater. ’
A

' 66
The Boston Globe just. called our shows phenomenal -— tightly staged.
expertly performed, and bursting with energy.”

9  IS the Week to come see Shenandoah Shakespeare for yourself. 4 i

Besides our regular great offer of  0 Student Push lllflkebs

available at the box office one hour before each performance, at every show through
Sept. 28, we're celebrating Blacl<friars' first. anniversary by giving all patrons s

a complimentary ticket to use before Dec. 1.

Twelfth Night Sept. 26 at 1:30 Sept. 28 at 230

Gender Bending. Twinning. Slapstick. Irony. John Maness directs one of Sha.’tcespeare’s finest and most
popular plays and presents it entirehi in beautiful Elizabethan dress. a first for Shenandoah Shakespeare.
Graciously sponsored by Shipplett Cleaners.

Richard III sept. 25 & 27 at 7:30

Fbolery’s Thadd Mcouade ——- whose background in mime makes this a union of movement and text. —
directs our most physically inventive show of the season. Richard III was the Bards ﬁrs: box-oﬂice smash.

Julius Caesar sept. 26 8! 23 at 7:30
Shenandoah Shakespeare co-founders Ralph Alan Cohen and Jim Warren co-direct. this masterpiece of
betrayal. violence and suppressed eroticism —- a play more than togas and required reading. it

Before the show, visit our upper lobby. buy a beverage, and bring it in our
beautiful theater. Authentic Shakespeare is that fun. with the lights on.

www.shenandoahslIakespeare.com 540.885.5588-
1 South Market street Stauntnn, VA

beside the new parking. uarage in award-urinning downtown

 

. marrw Mr ...m+I:a':'»:z' -In

-uwr

 

  

jn<E\II'l*"IttNI\'I 1N
SPORISEDIIUR

ERIIII; IRR\RIIN]@\RIt‘.rI>L'
‘TUESDAY, SEI’IEl\lBER 24, 2002

 ~1’I.ilvIl)l=ll

 PORTS

 

PAGE 7

Snakebitten no more: Generals stun Guilford, 31-30

l‘lll':l)H(7l1)

GAME-WINNING CATCH. Sophomore
;(Taylor Callaham, shown here battling
johns Hopkins’ Rich Lamour, caught

junior Peter Dean’s TD pass off of a

fake spike play with 10 seconds
, remaining against Guilford.

BY JEREMY FRANKLIN
SPORTS EDITOR

GREENSBORO, N.C. — For once,
it wasn’t Washington and Lee left
standing in disbelief after a football
game ended in dramatic fashion.

On Saturday, the Generals had the
last laugh in a hard-fought gridiron
contest, as junior quarterback Peter
Dean faked a spike and then hit a wide-
open sophomore Taylor Callaham in
the end zone with 10 seconds left to
beat Guilford 31-30 at the Arrnﬁeld
Athletic Center.

The 17-yard touchdown pass
capped off a seven—play, 78-yard drive
in the ﬁnal 90 seconds for W&L (1-1),
which overcame a 30- 1 8 fourth quar-
ter deficit to win their Old Dominion
Athletic Conference opener against
the Quakers (1-2).

‘The amount of raw guts and ﬁght
it took to win this game, it’s just a total
tribute to the team,” said senior Chris
Sullivan, who had 39 carries for 181
yards and scored three times. “It’s
what we knew we could do. I’ In lost for
words, I’m just so happy right now.”

The touchdown pass for Dean,
one of two he threw in the fourth quar-
ter, salvaged what had been a subpar
game for the quarterback. The junior
threw three interceptions on the af-
ternoon, including one that was re-
turned 58 yards for a touchdown by
Guilford’s Sherod Long.

“Anytime a quarterback gets the
win, it’s a good game for the quarter-

1

NET PLAY. Freshman Taylor Gibson attempts to block the ball against Hollins’
Rebekah Cocke as senior Stacey Kimmel looks on in W&L’s 30-14, 30-19, 30-11

‘win on Wednesday.

back,” Dean said. “I had a crappy day
before that. But it makes it all worth-
while, that whole last drive. I feel the
same after this game as I would if I
had thrown for 400 yards and five
touchdowns.”

Saturday’s game was a tale of two
halves for the Generals, who trailed 10-4
at halftime and had just 93 yards of total
offense through the ﬁrst two quarters.

A different Generals team showed
up after halftime. W&L fell behind 17-
4 when Josh Smith hit Oren Robinson
on a 66-yard scoring strike with 9:04
left in the third quarter, but then the
Generals’ offense got in gear.

The two squads exchanged punts,
and W&L took the ball on its own 43-
yard line. After a wide receiver reverse
by junior Jon Brimer got the ball into
Quaker territory, the Generals called
seven straight running plays. Sullivan
took the ball on six of them, including
a 3-yard TD that cut it to 17-11.

“I think the big difference was our
conditioning kicked in,” W&L coach
Frank Miriello said. “They got tired,
and we just started smashing them up
front. They’ve got good athletes who
can run us down, but once they got
tired it began to happen for us.”

Guilford’s offense wasn’t showing
signs of fatigue yet, as the Quakers
stormed down the ﬁeld and scored on
Smith’s 22-yard pass to Chris
McKinney for a 24-11 lead near the
end of the quarter.

W&L again responded, as
Sullivan caught a 26-yard pass on a

BY DONNY BANKS
SPORTS WRITER

A year after setting a school record
for wins in a season, the Washington
and Lee volleyball team is off to the
best start in program history.

The Generals improved to 12- 1, 4-
0 in the Old Dominion Athletic Con-
ference, with four wins this week.

W&L captured a convincing three-
game victory over Hollins at home on
Wednesday night in their only home
match of the week.

Although head coach Bryan
Snyder had expressed the need for
some improvement after last
Wednesday’s win over Guilford, there
was almost no sign of weakness in
the team’s authoritative 30-14, 30- 19,
30-1 1 sweep.

“I think we played really well in all
facets of the game,” Snyder said.
“We’ve made a lot of improvements,
and it came through tonight. We had
a lot of digs and were able to return a
lot of scrappy balls.

“We've beaten Hollins in the past,
but this time we did it with a larger
margin of victory than usual,” he said.
“I think that it shows that our team
has come together well and is begin-
ning to execute.”

Leading the entire match, the Gen-
erals showed why they currently
boast the No. 1 position in the ODAC
this year and have a legitimate chance
for the Division IH national title.

The team dominated at the net, led
by sophomore outside hitter Michelle
Chastain and freshman middle blocker
Taylor Gibson, who each recorded
seven kills. Freshman libero Christine
Gladysz had eight digs, and sophomore
setter Jennifer Lux produced 21 assists.

QuARrEIu3AcK’s wonsr NIGHTMARE. Senior Andrewjames (23)

    

1 F1112

a fumble in the Generals’ 31-30 win over the Quakers at the

sacked Guilford quarterbackjosh Smith twice and recovered Armﬁeld Athletic Center on Saturday.

fourth-down play to trim the lead to
24-18. Junior Ted Mafﬁtt intercepted
Smith on the ensuing possession and
returned the ball to the Guilford 40.

This time the Quakers’ defense
stepped up. Long stepped in front of
a W&L receiver on a screen pass and
had an open lane to the end zone. The
home team missed the extra point but
led 30-18 with 11:18 to play.

The Generals continued to wear
down Guilford’s defense, calling
Sul1ivan’s number eight times on the
following 11-play drive. The senior
tailback scored from seven yards out
with 7:26 to play to make it a 30-25 game.

1 _Volleyball off to record-setting start

The win over Hollins marked
Snyder’s 100th career victory. His
record now stands at 103-41 lifetime
and 62-16 at W&L.

“To be honest, I’ve been very for-
tunate to have a great group of play-
ers,” Snyder said. “I’ve done my best,
but I would really give most of the
credit to them.”

W&L traveled to Harrisonburg
on Saturday, recording a 30-19, 30-
18, 25-30, 30-15 win over Eastern
Mennonite. Freshman middle
blocker Susan Gaillard tallied 14 kills
and three blocks for the Generals.
Chastain ﬁnished with 10 kills, eight
digs and six aces, and Lux contrib-
uted 32 assists, eight digs and six
aces.

The Generals played a pair of
matches in Ashland on Sunday, de-
feating host Randolph-Macon and
the visiting Virginia Wesleyan Blue
Marlins by 3-0 scores.

In W&L’s 30-15, 30-25, 30-13 win
over the Yellow Jackets, Chastain led
the way with 16 kills, nine digs and
three aces. Gaillard recorded nine kills,
while Gladysz had 18 digs and Lux ﬁn-
ished with 32 assists.

Chastain added 10 more kills in the
Generals’ 30-9, 30-26, 30-16 win over
Virginia Wesleyan. Lux tallied 37 as-
sists, and freshman Ashleigh Overly
contributed eight kills.

The Blue Marlins are in the devel-
opmental varsity phase, so the win
doesn’t count towards W&L’s con-
ference record.

W&L steps out of the ODAC to
travel to the Emory Classic in Atlanta
this weekend. They will meet the host,
which knocked them out of the 2001
NCAA Division III Tournament, on
Saturday afternoon.

, _Men’s tennis hosts W&L Fall Classic

<r)ti<II~sYorSIoIusLNioR.\IRIri\z
‘RETURN SHOT. juniors Graham Nix (above) and Austin Kim

‘placed third in a doubles ﬂight of the W&L Fall Classic.

BY BARRETT DAWS
spoms WRITER

The men’s tennis team kicked off its fall sea-
son this weekend by hosting the Washington
and Lee Fall Classic.

Head coach David Detwiler invited two top
Division I teams, Davidson and James Madi-
son, to play against his squad.

Detwiler said that he really enjoys this par-
ticular tournament because he is able to play
“18 players instead of eight,” thus giving him a
good chance to get an early look at the team.

This tournament also gave Detwiler an idea
of what to expect in the ITA/Rolex Southeast-
ern Region Championships at Salisbury Univer-
sity Oct. 5-7, in which only four to six of his
players will be able to attend.

The Generals played well this weekend, led
by junior Chris Surdo’s ﬁrst-place ﬁnish in the
No. 4 singles bracket. Surdo defeated
Davidson’s Thomas Jeter 6-4, 7-6 on Sunday to
win the ﬂight.

Freshman Jordan Eichenberger, sophomore
David Ellison and freshman Chris Kimmel fin-
ished third in the No. 2, 3 and 4 singles brackets,
respectively, while freshman Justin Hannon
placed fourth in the top ﬂight.

In the doubles matches, which consisted of
two ﬂights, juniors Austin Kim and Graham Nix
placed third in their bracket.

Coach Detwiler is excited about both this
season and the seasons to come.

“We have a young team this year. We lost
three starters, and only have one senior this
year,” he said. “However, we are lucky to have
four strong freshmen who will ﬁll in the shoes of
the players we lost: Jordan Eichenberger, David
Shay, Chris Kimmel and Justin Harmon.”

Coach Detwiler hopes that by the end of the
fall, his squad will be ranked between seventh
and 11th in the nation.

The Generals’ toughest opponent in the re-
gion will be Washington College, whom W&L
faces in dual competition on March 30, Detwiler
said.

Guilford seemingly had a chance to
put the game away after Smith and
McKinney connected for a 35-yard pass
to the W&L 27-yard line with 2:34 left.
But the Generals’ defense held, forcing
a turnover on downs with 1:30 left.

“The defense came through and
gave the offense opportunities when
it needed to,” senior linebacker Matt
Stavish said. “That’s all you can ask
for the defense to do.”

Dean ran W&L’s two-minute of-
fense nearly to perfection, complet-
ing 4-of-5 passes for 67 yards on the
final drive. But one of those comple-
tions —— namely the last to Callaham

— stands out from the rest.

“We were all casual getting up there,”
Dean said. “It was a great call from the
sideline, and Taylor made that catch.”

Stavish, who intercepted Smith on
the ﬁnal play of the game to seal the
victory, never questioned the W&L
offense’s ability to come back.

“I don’t really think there was a
doubt that we could come back,” he
said. “It was just a matter of execu-
tion, making the plays when we
needed to.”

The Generals travel to Centre Col-
lege in Kentucky for a non-conference
game on Saturday.

1 _ Only on WLUR 91.5 FM

Listen to the premiere of
THE SUNDAY EVENING Sponrs BEAT

Featuring Jake Trotter and Jeremy Franklin

Sunday, Sept. 29 at 6 p.m.

 

W&L ties Hornets, wins 2 at home

. «\M1St)N/HERL\‘G—TUMPlIl
IN PLAY. W&L senior midﬁelder jenny Thomas throws the ball in during the
Generals’ 3-0 win over Greensboro at the Liberty Hall Fields on Sunday.

TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER 24, 2002

BY MICHAEL LEE
SPORTS WRITER

Washington and Lee women’s soc-
cer saw a busy week with three games.
The Generals won twice at home after
securing an Old Dominion Athletic
Conference tie on the road.

Wednesday afternoon, W&L (3-1-
2, 2-1-1 ODAC) tied Lynchburg 1-1 in
a conference away match. _

Lynchburg junior Kat Stuart scored
off of an assist from senior Nicole
Wisniewski with 28: 19 remaining in the
first half, and W&L sophomore
midﬁelder Alison Irvin responded off
of a loose ball at 53:08 in the second
half. The teams clashed for the rest of
the half and two overtime periods, but
neither could break the tie.

W&L sophomore goalkeeper Emily
Barker played the entire game, post-
ing nine saves on a shot-happy
Lynchburg team. The Hornets
outshot the Generals 18-9, and had
eight corner kicks to W&L’s two.

W&L head coach Neil Curmingham
was pleased with his team’s perfor-
mance. “Lynchburg is the top-ranked
team in the ODAC this year, and
they’ve been the conference champi-
ons for the last two or three,” he said.
“We had a great team performance all
around.”

The Generals returned to action
Saturday afternoon against Hollins.
In a lopsided ODAC matchup, W&L
won out with a 12-0 ﬁnal score.

Junior forward Fontaine Marcoux
and senior midﬁelder Jenny Thomas each
earned six points, with two goals and
two assists apiece. Sophomores Molly
Plummer and Romney Wrllson scored
two goals apiece, and junior Susannah
Hewlett had a goal and two assists.

Also scoring for W&L were junior
Heather Coleman, sophomore Maggie
Hope and freshman Gina Von
Stemberg. Junior Meghan Hayde had
two assists.

Sophomore goalies Emily Barker
and Abigail Pfeffer split time in the net
to eam the shutout. The Generals took
an amazing 31 shots to ﬁve for Hollins.

Cunningham noted excellent play
from his team. “We played a good
game today. We passed well, and
made some good quality goals. We
moved the ball around more quickly
in the second half, and I’m happy with
that,” he said.

Sunday saw the Generals on the
Liberty Hall Fields yet again, playing
a non-conference match against
Greensboro. The game ended with a
3-0 Generals win.

Vlfrth 17:53 remaining in the sec-
ond half, sophomore midﬁelder Alison
Irvin collided with freshman defender
Heather Rogers as they fought for the
ball with a Greensboro forward, who
escaped unscathed.

Play stopped as a General managed
to kick the ball out of bounds, and the
two players were taken to the hospi-
tal for treatment. The extent of their
injuries was unknown at press time.

Hewlett scored unassisted just be-
fore halftime. After the break, Thomas’
ﬂip throw-in was headed in by a Greens-
boro defender, giving W&L a 2-0 lead.
W&L sophomore forward Molly
Plummer was credited for the goal.

Von Stemberg scored the ﬁnal goal
off of an assist from Coleman. Barker
again played all 90 minutes in goal for
the Generals, garnering six saves.

W&L travels to Randolph-Macon
Women’s College for a 4 p.m. match
today.

Field hockey splits
pair of ODAC contests‘

TAu1EjAMiso.\./ HE c.-run 11-’.

I GENERAIS ROLL. Washington and Lee freshman link S.B. Northen plays the ball

in Wednesday’s 16-0 win over Hollins at the W&L Turf Field.

Generals beat Hollins, drop road match to Lynchburg ,

BY DAVID CROWELL
ASSISTANT srorns EDITOR

The Washington and Lee ﬁeld
hockey team opened up Old Domin-
ion Athletic Conference play with
mixed results this past week, beat-
ing up on Hollins 16-0 on Wednes-
day night before dropping a hard-
fought match, 2-0, to Lynchburg on
Saturday.

In the easy victory on Wednes-
day, the Generals (2-4, 1-1 ODAC)
were in Hollins’ zone all night, scor-
ing the garne-winning goal less than
three minutes into the match. W&L

cently, but it was still nice to win at
home in our first home game, in our
first conference game,” Orrison
said. I!

Unfortunately for W&L,
Lynchburg is a team that is experi-
encing a tremendous upswing. The
defending conference champion, the ‘
Hornets came in ranked seventh in '
the latest NCAA Division IH poll,
carrying a 6-0 record.

W&L stuck with Lynchburg for
most of the first half, taking six shots ,(
to the Hornets’ seven. One of
Lynchburg’s shots got past fresh-
man goalie Courtney Harrison,

Generals drop conference opener on road

Men’s soccer falls 1-0 to rival
Hampden-Sydney in ODAC game

FROM STAFF REPORTS

HAMPDEN-SYDNEY — The Washington
and Lee men’s soccer team opened up Old Do-
minion Athletic Conference play on Saturday
afternoon, dropping a 1-0 contest to Hampden-
Sydney.

Beau Burke scored the lone goal of the day
for the Tigers, taking a pass from Rob Johnson
and drilling it past senior goalie Tim Foley at the
47:36 mark of the second half.

Hampden-Sydney outshot the Generals 13-9
on the day and also held the edge in comer
kicks, taking 14 compared to W&L’s three.

Foley played the entire contest in net for the
Generals and made four saves. Austin Krison
and Elliot Byers split goaltending duties for the
Tigers, each recording a pair of saves.

W&L (1-2-1, 0-1-0 ODAC) hopes to even its
conference record when the Generals travel to
Guilford for a 4 p.m. match on Wednesday.

Golf places 16th at JMU invite

pete with a number of Division I schools this
weekend, ﬁred a 292-290-301—883 to place in a
tie with Vrllanova for 16th place out of 18 teams
at the JMU Invitational at the Lakeview Golf Club.
Senior Chip Campbell, anAll-ODAC performer
in the spring, led the Generals by carding a 73-72-
74—219, good enough to earn a tie for 35th place.
Sophomore Ged Johnson ﬁnished one stroke
behind Campbell to tie for
43rd place, posting a 73-70-
77—220 over the three

rounds.

Senior Chuck Green shot-

a 75-73-75—223 to grab a tie
for 61 st place. Freshman Tom
Borda shot a 77-75-75—227
to tie for 76th and round out
the scoring for the Generals.

Sophomore Carlos Spaht contributed a 71-
75-83-—-229 for W&L.

Penn State won the overall competition by 25
strokes over host James Madison, ﬁring a 280-
269-271-820. Among other Virginia schools,
Richmond tied for fourth with a 283-284-291--
858 and Liberty placed ninth with a 292-286-
289-867.

CAMPBELL

)UKlII\ (F  l,\'R>lL\l;\’llQV

The Generals are scheduled for the second

unleashed 73 shots on goal.

Sophomore Meredith Walker led
the way for the Generals, scoring
two goals and assisting on two oth-
ers. Sophomores Kristen Brown
and Kitt Murphy and junior Jessica
Lake each added two goals, while
freshman Jane Beall racked up three
assists.

Despite giving up 161 goals, Betsy
Coe made 35 saves in goal for
Hollins.

“It was a great game for every-
one to be a part of, and it’s great for
our conﬁdence,” Brown said after
the win. “We had a good chance to
work on some aspects of our offense
that we haven’t gotten to work on.”

The game got W&L back on track
after a difﬁcult time at the Salisbury
Tournament last weekend, where the
Generals lost three games by a com-
bined score of 15-2.

Despite winning in lopsided fash-
ion, coach Wendy Orrison still rec-
ognized the signiﬁcance of winning
the tearn’s home opener.

ODAC OPENER. \Washington and Lee senior defender Sean Hardin

and the Generals fell to Hampden-Sydney, 1-0, on Saturday.

HARRISONBURG — The Washington and
Lee golf team, enjoying the opportunity to com-

day of the Buck Leslie Invitational at the Lexing-
ton Golf and Country Club today.

“Hollins is a pretty weak pro-
gram that has been suffering re-

though, and the Hornets carried a l-
0 lead into halftime. ’

In the second half, Lynchburg
thoroughly dominated the Gener-
als statistically, outshooting W&L
10-0. Sara Ensley added an unas-
sisted insurance goal with 5:32 left
in the game.

Harrison made nine saves for
W&L on the day.

“With key games looming against I
conference foes Roanoke and East-
ern Mennonite this week, the pres-
sure is on early in the season.
Orrison is sure, however, her team
can answer.

“We just need to get more ex-
perience playing together,” the
second-year coach said. “It’s not
necessarily stick skills that we’re I
behind on, but our conditioning,
timing, learning where everyone
should be, running back on
plays.”

The Generals stay on the road
this week, as they travel to Roanoke
for a 4:30 p.m. matchup on Wednes-
day against the Maroons, who are

I

I

4-0 in ODAC play. A

SCOREBOARD

SATuRDAY’s FOOTBALLYARDLINE

Washington and Lee 31, Guilford 30
Washington and Lee 2 2 7 20-31
Guilford 0 10 14 6-30

First Quarter
W&L — Team safety, 10:37

Second Quarter

GC — Horton 37 FG, 10:50
GC — Ballard 2 run (Adams kick), 7:20
W&L — Team safety, 4:49

Third Quarter
GC — Robinson 66 pass from Smith (Horton kick), 9:04
W&L -— Sullivan 3 run (Whitfield kick), 3:07
GC — McKinney 22 pass from Smith (Horton kick), 0:16

Fourth Quarter
W&L — Sullivan 26 pass from Dean (Whitﬁeld kick), 13:21
GC — Long 58 interception return (Horton kick tailed), 11:18
W&L -— Sullivan 7 run (Whitfield kick), 7:26
W&L — Callaham 17 pass from Dean (conversion failed), 0:10

W&L

First downs 18 11
FIushes—yards 50-191 44-77
Passing yards 144 236
Return yards 208 124
Comp-Att-Int 10-23-3 13-22-2
Sacked-Yards lost 3-18 4-22
Punts 7-35.3 ' 4-39.8
Fumbles-lost 0-0 5-2
Penalties-yards 1-10 3-40
Time of Possession 33:24 26:36

INDIVIDUAL STATISTICS

FlUSHlNG—Washington and Lee: Sullivan 39-181, Diverio 3-
12, Brimer 1-12, Dean 6-(-13), Team 1-(-1). Guilford: Lockhart 12-
46, Smith 12-16, Journigan 6-15, Ballard 10-11, McKinney 1-2,
Caye 1-2, Team 2-(-15).

PASSlNG—Washington and Lee: Dean 10-23-3-144. Guilford:
Smith 13-22-2-236.

RECElVlNG—Washington and Lee: Callaham 4-48, Sullivan
2-33, Brimer 2-12, Neuman 1-31, Rankin 1-20. Guilford: McKinney
7-99, Robinson 3-86, Ballard 2-48, Caye 1-3.

|NTEFiCEPTlONS—-Washington and Lee: Maliitt 1-24, Stavish
1-0. Guilford: Long 1-58, Edward 1-0, Batts 1-0.

W&L SPORTS SCHEDULE: SEPT. 24-29

Tuesday, Sept. 24
Golf
Buck Leslie Invitational, Lexington
Golf & Country Club
Women’s Soccer
W&L at FIMWC, 4 p.m.

Wednesday, Sept. 25
Men’s Soccer

W&L at Guilford, 4 p.m.
Field Hockey

W&L at Roanoke, 4:30 p.m.

Friday, Sept. 27

Volleyball (at Emory Classic)

W&L vs. Texas Lutheran, 2 p.m.

W&L vs. East Texas Baptist,
4:30 p.m.

Cross Country

W&L at Great American Cross
Country Festival

Field Hockey
W&L at Eastern Mennonite, 7 p.m.

Saturday, Sept. 28

Cross Country

W&L at Roanoke Invitational
Women’s Soccer

W&L at N.C. Wesleyan, 12 p.m.
Football

W&L at Centre, 1:30 p.m.
Volleyball (at Emory Classic)
W&L vs. Southwestern, 2 p.m.
W&L at Emory, 4:30 pm.
Men’s Soccer

W&L at Roanoke, 2:30 p.m.

Sunday, Sept. 29
Field Hockey
Virginia Wesleyan at W&L, 1 p.m.

ODAC FOOTBALL GLANCE

ODAC

Team W
Washington and Lee
Bridgewater

Hampden-Sydney

Emory & Henry
Randolph-Macon

Catholic

Guilford

Sept. 21 Results

W&L 31, Guilford 30
Bridgewater 42, Maryville 0
Emory & Henry 25, Sewanee 24
Randolph-Macon 17, Carnegie

Mellon 14

-ACDCDOOOGT‘

Overall

L PF
45
113
88

—*©l\)l'\>|\30D-‘E
(DO)->U'I(Dl\)UI'U
<A>KO<O<D<D<7>—5>

Sept. 28 Schedule

Christopher Newport at Bridgewater
Catholic at Randolph-Macon

Emory & Henry at Davidson
Gulltord at Hampden-Sydney

W&L at Centre

Interested in getting involved with
Washington and Lee athletics?

Join T/96 Rz°r¢g—z‘m7¢ P/92'.

Opportunities are available to cover fall sports,
from football to soccer, ﬁeld hockey to volleyball.

Contact Sports Editor Jeremy Franklin at frame/z'7y’@u//medu or
Assistant Sports Editor David Crowell at crowe//a’@222/u.edu or
call X4060 for more information.

SELL SPRING BREAK TRIPS
ALL THE FUN & ALL THE PROTECTIONS
AMERICAN EXPRESS WORLDWIDE
GUARANTEED BEST BUY
1 FREE TRIP FOR EVERY 10 PAID
OR CA$H STARTING WITH FIRST BOOKING
YOU SELL - WE COLLECT PAYMENTS
WORLD CLASS VACATIONS
1-800-222-4432

Spring Break 2003 with STS
Americas #1 Student Tour
Operator
Sell Trips earn cash Travel Free
Inforrnation/Reservations
1-800-648-4849 or
www.ststravel.com

‘F

I

V»

 

Worst rate in 5 years, says
Student Health Center

BY MCQUEEN CALVEKT AND KATIE HowEu.
STAFF WRHER AND EDITOR IN cnnar

Student drinking rates are at an all-time
high for the month of September, campus
health care officials said, based on increased
numbers of inﬁrrnary and hospital visits.

As of Sept. 25, 23 students have vis-
ited the Washington and Lee Health Cen-
ter since freshman orientation activities
began earlier this month, said Dr. Jane
Horton, director of health services.

Ofthose23,18werefreshmen.Bothnum-
bers reﬂect higher students drinking rates than
any other September in the past ﬁve years.

The inﬂux of freshman drinking-related
infirmary visits is due to pressure from up-
perclassman students, Horton said.

“It is more of an upper class problem
because of the environment they surround
the freshmen with,” she said.

Last September, ﬁve freshmen of 18
students visited the inﬁrmary during. The
previous September, 10 freshmen of 11 stu-
dents went to the inﬁrmary in September
for alcohol or drug-related problems.

Interfraternity Council advisor Matt
Jacobs attributes the rise in freshmen drink-
ing incidents to the number of parties
thrown on and off campus.

Fraternities threw 12 parties on-
campus during the first week of school,

' Jacobs said.

“The increase in the amount of fresh-
men visits to the Health Center is (also)
due to the increase in the amount of off-
campus parties, which the IFC does not
have authority to regulate,” Jacobs said.

Upperclass students agree that the so-
cial situations at W&L intensify freshman
drinking health problems.

A JuniorErinJohr1son neverdrankinhigh
school. She said that she began drinking at
W&L bec rlise beer was “always there.”

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

NG-TUM

}—+

PHI

V0LUMECV,N0.IX
MONDAY, SEPIEMBER 30, 2002

The rtrrrlcrrt none of Wellington and Lee University since 7897 (0 Online at: jrlrrlrrr/rr.rrlrr

September



;; it Student yisits 3

FR ALL ER 0 FR
2002

“Looking back, the fall of my fresh-
man year was the most excessive drinking
of all my time at W&L, simply because it
was so available, and even though I never
felt pressured to do it, I still drank in ex-
cess,” Johnson said.

Sophomore Anne Bounds agreed that
W&L’s social scene encouraged her to
drink excessively as a freshman.

“Drinking made it easier to meet
people early on, but you stayed better
friends with people who you did more stuff
with, and who weren’t simply social
friends,” Bounds said.

Health ofﬁcials do not blame the fra-
ternity system itself, but rather the drink-
ing traditions at W&L for the upsurge of
freshman drinking problems this year.

“Freshmen come here, often with no

Political atmosphere

College Republicans largest
chapter per-capita in Va.

BY ANDREW LATIMER
NEWS EDITOR

To Washington and Lee’s College
Republicans, the Grand Old Party just got
even grander.

Membership numbers for the campus’
largest political organization topped 607
students this year, representing about 34
percent of the undergraduate population.
The total is up from roughly 200 last year.

College Republicans Executive Direc-
tor Megan Zingarelli ’05 remarked, “That
makes us the largest club per capita in the
country and the second largest in the state.”

A She added, “Only UVAbeat us in vu-
ginia with about 800 members, but they
have thousands more students than
W&L.” According to CR President John
Heath ’04, the average College Republi-
can chapter can claim about 5 to 15 per-
cent of the student body.

The boost most likely is the result of
an excellent retention rate, as well as a sig-
nifrcant inﬂux of interested freshmen.

The news comes as little surprise to
some students, as the University was

EC releases
allocation data

FROM STAFF REPORTS

The Executive Committee of the Student Body appor-
tioned $350,773.85 after hearings last Wednesday and
Thursday. The Pavilion received $44,835.64; the E.C. Re-
serve, $7,452; E.C. Honor Reserve, $2,0()0; and the Stu-

dent Body Working Reserve, $l8,0()0.

The remaining $278,486 was divided among 49 clubs.

Seven clubs received no funding.

“This is the ﬁrst year in history that the Calyx is inde-
pendent of university funding,” said senior Neal \lV1lletts,

editor of the school yearbook.

LIFE, which historically received no EC fundings,

was given $1,000.

“The money is for ‘A Night to Remember, not the

clu ,” said LIFE ofﬁcer Jennifer Parks.

named “most nostalgic for Reagan” by the
latest edition of The Princeton Review. -

CR Chairman Benjamin Bryant ’03
stated, “I think it is awesome that Princeton
Review is ﬁnally giving us recognition for
what we students have always known here
on campus.”

He added, “President Reagan was a
great leader of great character, and the fact
thatweasacampuslookuptohimwith
great nostalgia is truly a tribute to the nature
of the character of students here at W& 

Organization members hope to re-
bound from last year’s defeat of Republi-
can gubernatorialcandidate Mark Earley.
Despite the canvassing of dorms and nu-
merous awareness—raising activities on
and off campus, Democrat Mark Warner
trounced Earley in Lexington by an over ‘
30-percentage point margin.

Under Va. Law, students are eligible
to register to vote in local and state elec-
tions. There is currently no data on how
many students opt to reregister in Lexing-
ton. The deadline for registration is Oct. 7.

This year CR has thrown its support
behind 24"‘ district House of Delegates
candidate Benjamin Cline. Heath said,
“Additionally, we’re concentrating on ex

See REPUBLICANS, page 2

ALL
1 998

alcohol-related intirmary visits

FR = Freshman intirmary visits
ALL = Total student intirmary visits A
ER = Totai student emergency room visits

ER FR ALL ER FR.

1999

ALL
2000

EH. FR ALL ER
2001

Ncciumrc1n'KmE Homr. / TlxRr'vg4trrrrPl2z; nmotrxnnrsr OFWWW.295GUYS.COM/ cormrmarnuaornasmir.

experience of drinking or even the drink-
ing environment,” Horton said. “It isn’t
because we have an especially rowdy
group of freshmen, just that they are be-
ing put into this environment and don’t
know how to behave.”

Freshmen agree that the social cul-
ture at W&L increases their opportunities
to consume alcohol.

Freshman Bo Root said, “(The drink-
ing scene at W&L) is awesome!”

“If you are not drinking at a party, you
do feel kind of out of place simply because
of the massive amounts of upperclassmen
and freshmen who are drinking,” agreed
freshman Alex Battey.

Freshmen, however, are not the only
students increasing their visits to the Stu-
dent Health Center. ’ " 0‘ ‘

According to the Student Health Cen-
ter records, upperclassmen have also fre-
quented the inﬁrmary more this month than
in previous Septembers. The statistics
show seven sophomores and five juniors
receiving medical care at the inﬁrmary this
month, while no sophomores and one jun-
ior visited it last September. For more sta-
tistics, see the infographic above.

The Princeton Review also noted
W&L’s tendency toward alcohol in its re-
cent survey. Among the 337 U.S. colleges
and universities reviewed, it reported
W&L as third place in the “biggest Greek
scene” category, fourth place in “amount
of hard liquor” consumed and ﬁfth place
in “amount of beer” consumed.

See DRINIQNG, page 2 ..

heats up on campus

Cline, Elrod vie for state delegate seat as school is torn

  

4.4" ' '>'.
(IXJKIJESYCX3

ARRIVAL Elroddescends into athrongofwell-
wishcrs at the announcement of her candidacy.

BY DREW DAVENPORT
STAFF wrnnr

In just over one month, voters in 24th
district of Virginia will elect a replacement for
House of Delegates Speaker S. Vance Wilkins
Jr. The Nov. 5 special election will determine
who represents Virginians from Rockbridge
County and parts of Amherst and Augusta
Counties in the Virginia House of Delegates.

After serving for 24 years, Mr. Wilkins
resigned in June due to controversy aris-

 

across party lines, personal connections to both candidates

ing from allegations that he sexually ha-
rassed former ofﬁce worker Jennifer L.
Thompson on more than one occasion.
After the allegations surfaced, Mr. Wilkins
paid Ms. Thompson a $100,000 settlement.

Competing for the seat is Democrat
Mimi Elrod, Director of W&L’s Summer
Scholars program and wife of the late
former W&L president John Elrod. She is
running against Republican Ben Cline,
former Chief-of-Staff for U.S. Rep. Bob
Goodlatte and son of W&L Williams
School professor Philip Cline.

“This part of Virginia lost a great ad-
vocate and a lot of clout in Richmond when
Vance Wilkins resigned,” Cline said. “The
representative needs experience and
knowledge of government progress to
make sure this area gets an appropriate
level of representation in Richmond.”

Cline, a Lexington native who gradu-
ated from Lexington High School in 1990,
grew up with a strong community service
emphasis, he said. He volunteered for or-
ganizations such as Meals on Wheels,

See ELECTION, page 2

cm nro\1nn)Ex'niEr:><EcLmvE(1r»0rr1'iI,rAErEEYMArnrEw MCDERlvKJl'l"/T/ltRI'Jgl10IIPlv'

   

dentshavealsofundedtheevent.

    

morocrxrmsi jot‘/it.
DECADE. 'IlielastyaraDerrro<1aticcorrvmt'nr1Vwslr¢:ldwas’92

Mock Con sets
final deadlines

BY MATT!-IEW MCDERMUIT
EDITOR IN CHIEF

Vifrtiraniajorityoftliesteeringconnrrimetobeappoirrted
earlynextweek,MockConve-ntionhasshitledintohighgear.

A student-rim organization with a $400,000 bud-
get, the 2004 Mock Con will simulate and predict the
nominee of that year’s Democratic Convention.

“We’re choosing the chairs of various commit-
tees,” said Personnel Tri-Chair Jacquelyn Clark. Com-
mittees, whose chairs will conduct their own interviews,
will oversee accommodations, finances, the Conven-
tion Journal, speakers, memorabilia, and the web page.

Clark’s colleagues are fellow juniors Noah Rhodes,
general tri—chair, and Michael Denbow, political tri—chair.

“The date is ﬁrmly Jan. 30th
and 31st,” said General Tri-Chair
Noah Rhodes. Mock Con now oc-
curs earlier in the year than ever
before, due to the advancement of
primaries like Super Tuesday.

“(The Tri-Chairs) were ap-
pointed late, so we had to catch
up,” Rhodes said.

The Executive Board, the
Tri-chairs and the secretary and
treasurer, will later choose more steering committee
members, such as the ﬁve regional chairs.

“For now in early stages, the last thing we want
‘are enthusiastic‘ workers with nothing to do,” Rhodes
said. When the time comes, however, “We strongly
urge freshmen to apply. We urge everyone to apply.”

“Everything willbeﬁ1llyrunr1ingnextFall,”Cla1ksaid

Work is currently underway for the Spring Kick-
off, traditionally a week-long event.

“(The Spring Kickoff) will be ﬁnalized when the
speaker and the band, in that order of importance, are
chosen,” Rhodes said.

Denbow is attempting to get two speakers for the
Kickoff, Clark said, an unprecedented occurrence.

Also on the burner is further fundraising.

“Roughly half of our
($400,000) budget comes from
fundraising,” Rhodes said.
“We’re traveling to eight cities.”

Mock Convention has also been
incontactwith national rnediaoutlets.

“There will be gavel—to-gavel
coverage of the Convention,” Clark
said. “We’re talking to CNN, C-
SPAN, and MTV ’s Rock-the-Vote.”

“We want to make this an
event for local and state media too,” Rhodes added.

Complicating things was Mock Con’s recent move
to a Mod Hall trailer from its room in the University
Center basement, the former Trident Ofﬁce.

The former Journalism classroom has a private of-
ﬁce for each tri—chair, and a large central working room.

“We needed the space for storage,” Clark said.

“We are not building an empire,” Rhodes said.
“The space will be used. Soon people will be com-
ing in and out, regularly.”

Rhodes thanked Dean of the Commerce School
Larry Peppers, Dean of Students David Howison, As

 

RHODES

CLARK

See MOCK CON, page 2

H' a ' H '1 ' Cl
N mmi ' d
S.A.B. $70,000 Habitat for Humanity $2,000 Gay-Straight Alliance $600 “Y Mm“ M°DE"““” througartrﬁtete  C; S
S.B.A. $57,000 Law Speakers Guild $2,000 Club Lacrosse (W) $500 EDITOR IN CHIEF S 1 61,3 Bureau King aid
Contact $44,000 Women’s Forum $1,750 Political Review $500 Th ﬁm H. . . A 1 . I .’ th Dan . M _
Mock Convention $18,000 journal of Science $1,600 Club Volleyball $500 event inewashington  mg N638, NavsaI1l:tt:is alszs a 23:-
T   Cl b  DQOCC  T S0\ltE1l:l'I1. C;)ﬂll.‘0fC   Sponsored  the  Stu_  editor to Newsweek.
Naborsrll::v.;:e $8,500 u W55?  $1,400  2400 dent Amciaﬁon’ Said MSA President Navamme “is the most widely
’   ad Hi " alit'th
FilmhSo(c;1'}eIt3  I.ib:ty;1allC\l’o:).  U1 .   M Rfgen Isavan-gag, J1-_, a na1jona]]y lJnit:(duSfate:ffu::<J:::dIings tbn th:
tt , , um t . . . - .
Java aPube Board $3 000 W&L ciizegfadilrllg $1,200 al\;enr’l.:Pel1:lan‘t1l1 $200 Sym‘°at°d °°hm"s"“'da"'h°”w'nd°' S°1°m°“b"°f'H°was pr°ﬁ1°dbyH"'
_ , ’ ' liver a Lee Chapel speech this Thursday, panic magazine as one of the 30 most
112 Rrr1g- P111 3000 LIFE 1000 00 . . .
C mrillgby $2,375 KEwL$ $800 Order of 01:; £00 wel°°m° t° the New Wmld‘ H°w accomphshed people under ﬁlmy’
’ Amen’ ’ Iatino Populati Shape Aregular contnbutortothe“S1mday
Ice Hockey $2,747 Fencing $675 Wornen’s Philanth. $200 mczlsias ,, mwm Opimm, Section of The Los Ange,“
Ar-1' 1 2,700 3 675 Th h 150 , Ce‘. ."“"‘ , . .
SM: 32 675 Mindben . gig: E650  °“"° °‘;‘;::hﬁ150 ‘This IS pan of MSAs anempt to Tmes,hehasbecnP“bhshedbYﬂteClu-
’ g ' broad its focus and xtivities,” said  cago Tribune and The Sacmmatto Bee.

The ,Col R bl’ ,7heTn'de G.C.F.,La Ft ,S.J.C.,andS&ELa ' "ed t d’ . ‘“°“‘3’“‘°0‘ﬁ°e°f‘l‘°D°3“°f‘*“°C°1‘ F‘°S“°Pa°‘ﬁ°U‘“V°’S“Y’G°°‘g°‘°“’“°
Ca” we 9” ms '7" W "gby wS°°'eW'e°e" "°""'"g legeandtheOﬂiceoftheDeanofSt11- Oberlin,’ Anzona' StateUniversrty' ,Harvard

andUCSantaBarbara.

 

 

 

  

* ';v'./

  
 

’ ~';2 p‘i‘£‘n*. iii  ~;
aw‘. in 6 .3; ';"+."l'I“‘~.«‘3,!l‘r’
1*-ya ;~.¢ﬂ'.'§;

131'}

~ I.-‘."‘.
PAGE
OCT  E3 

.y.-,,.-“

N EWS

Cline, Elrod to square off Nov. 5

ELECTION, from page 1

Wheels, Habitat for Humanity and Literacy Volunteers of
America. After graduating from Bates College, Cline worked
in Rep. Goodlatte’s ofﬁce for eight years, spending the ﬁnal
year and a half as Rep. Goodlatte’s Chief—of-Staff.

Elrod is an active member of the Lexington commu-
nity, serving on a number of community boards such as
mental health, church outreach and sexual assault. Each
candidate has actively fundraised

“When people have to choose between medicine or
eating, there is a problem,” she said.

Cline also wants to solve high healthcare costs, but by
“bridging the uninsured gap between Medicaid and em-
ployer—based insurance,” and possibly awarding tax breaks
to employers who provide insurance to employees.

In terms of improving education, Cline would like to
raise teacher salaries and will lobby for more state funding of
maintenance and operation of the public schools in the area.
Right now, the bulk of maintenance and

during the campaign.

The most recent ﬁnancial reports,
available on the Virginia Public Access
Project’s website (www.vpap.org), indi-
cate that Elrod’s campaign has raised a
total $68,674 and spent $27,376. Elrod’s
single largest contribution was $l0,()()0,

ELECTION 2002

BENJAMIN CLINE (R)

A native ofthe area, he is the son of
management and economics profes-
sor Phillip Cline.He worked for Con-
gressman Goodlatte for 8 years, and

operation costs are being ﬁnanced lo-
cally, he said.

Cline is committed to bringing more
jobs to the area by luring business and
fostering good cooperation between the
local chambers and economic develop-
ment ofﬁces. He also recognizes the need

given by H.F. Ienfest. Cline’s campaign this is his first run for political ofﬁCe_ for economic improvement.

has raised $44,696 and spent$12,961ofit. Funds raised $44,696, “We need to address the budget deﬁ-
His largest donation of $6,000 came from _ buSineSs_oriemed cit through wasteful unnecessary spend-
the Committee forRepubhcan Leadership. _ against raising taxes ing rather than raising taxes,” he said

In a recent debate Elrod accused Cline of
being ﬁnancially backed by contributors
to Rep. Goodlatte. In t:urn, Cline expressed
that Elrod was being supported by W&L
trustees.

Both candidates hope to make an
immediate impact in Richmond.

“The two previous adniinistra—
tions left Virginia in an economic mess,”
she said. “I want to take a physically
conservative response to that.”

Elrod wants to focus on eco-
nomic development by bringing “bet-
ter jobs and more jobs” to the area.

“People here grow up and have
difficulty coming back to this area af-
ter college,” she said.

Having spent a career in education,
Elrod wants to improve public school

before.

- pro-choice

servative”

- more local control of education
- more funding for local police
- has stressed family values

MIMI ELROD (D)

As wife of the late John Elrod, she
has forged deep contacts within the
Washington and Lee community.
She has not run for political office

Funds ra/sea‘. $68,674*
- education-oriented
- anti-death penalty in Virginia

- labels herself as a “fiscal con-

- supports better pay for teachers

*as of Sept. 30. Data from www vpap. org

He solidified his commitment to
not raise taxes by speciﬁcally signing
a pledge stating that he would not
vote or support any tax increase. Elrod
did not sign the pledge, because she
wants to keep her options open.

“I am not going to Richmond to
raise taxes,” she said. “But I’m not go-
ing to sign a pledge that I can’t keep.”

W&L’s College Republicans are
actively involved in Ben Cline’s cam-
paign, president John Heath said.

They have sent volunteers to work
for Cline’s campaign office, campaign
door-to-door, distribute campaign litera-
ture and ﬁlm a commercial with Cline.
Heath feels reasonably conﬁdent in
Cline’s chances of victory.

“We want to irifoim people in the

students’ access to technology by in-
creasing installation of ﬁber optic cables. She also wants Vir-
ginia teachers to receive better ﬁnancial support because teacher
salaries in Virginia fall below the national average, she said.

One of Elrod’s biggest goals is ﬁnding a solution to
the current drought that has besieged Virginia. She wants
to implement a comprehensive state water plan, which
would set standards for water quality. She also wants Vir-
ginia to do a better job of conserving water. She person-
ally sent a letter to President Bush advocating drought
relief for farmers, in support of a current proposed $6 bil-
lion drought relief package.

“I personally want to do something about the prob-
lems,” she said. “(Politicians) get sidetracked and don’t
focus on the issues, which is bad for the public.”

She wants to fight rising healthcare costs by
making cheaper generic prescription drugs more
widely available.

. Vain Street, Lexington - 463-7522
' t. ll}:[l€’la.rri.-5 p.:_ir.: Sun. 13:00 a.rrr.~3:{ltip.rrr.

he ultimate etudwr tool - ¢20FFE«€.

community about Ben Cline and about
his positions,” Heath said. “I think his message resonates
with the district.”

Heath said that the College Republicans are even work-
ing with W&L’s Young Democrats to possibly form an on-
carnpus debate between Cline and Elrod. Young Democrats
could not be reached for comment.

Both candidates have used grassroots campaigning in
an effort to get their message out to the community. Elrod
walks about and meets people, listening to their concerns.

“I want to know what people care about,” she said.

Cline’s campaigning has been similar. He knocks on doors
to meet people and communicates with political and commu-
nity leaders.

Both candidates are also planning to air television
commercials locally before the election.

The winner of the election will serve the ﬁnal year of
Wilkins’ tenri. Anew election will be held in November 2003.

 

GIFT HOPPE I

‘.933.’

PART-TIME
STOCK ASSISTANT.
Hard-Working,
Well-Organized,
Strong Work Ethics.
Apply at The Shenandoah
Attic,

17 South Main St.,
Lexington
540-464-8383

Alcohol abuse spikes in Sept.

DRINKING, from page 1

The administration, however, is
not taking the implied drinking swell
lightly. The school administration
implemented a three—strike alcohol
violation system in the fall of 2001
to curb the number of underage
drinkers and excessive drinking in
fraternity houses.

Interfraternity Council helps
regulate this system by policing the
houses each weekend, making sure
that no drinking games or shots are
being taken, as well as checking for
mandatory sober ofﬁcers, security
and legally trained bartenders. Also,
new IFC policies, implemented in
2001 require all freshmen men join-
ing fraternities during Winter Term‘
to complete a TIPS program educat-
ing them in proper distribution of
alcohol and how to judge a student’s
intoxication.

As Homecoming weekend ap-
proaches, campus organizations pre-
pare to take alcohol precautions. IFC
President Chris Pickens does not an-
ticipate higher alcohol-related drink-
ing problems this weekend and will
make sure that the rules are enforced.

“(There will) probably be less irici—

dents because the frats are aware of the
problem, and know they take arisk when
throwing a party,” Jacobs said. “Every
precaution will be taken and if there is a
violation by the fraternity or by a stu-
dent, there will be serious repercus-
sions.”

Alcohol abuse during Home-
coming weekend remains a sensitive
issue at W&L because of the alco-
hol-related deaths of two under-
graduate students over Homecom-
ing Weekend, October 2000.

Health officials do not think
alcohol-related infirmary visits are
all bad, however. Authorities pre-
fer students to take care of their
health problems by coming to the
infirmary rather than ignoring
them, increasing the danger of se-
rious injury or death.

Horton said that inﬁrmary vis-
its usually slow down after the be-
ginning of the year as well.

“While many students visit the
Health Center, they rarely have an
occurrence of a student returning for
the same reason,” Horton said.

“W&L has a drinking tradition
which cannot be stopped,” said
Horton, who nonetheless believes stu-
dents should be safe while drinking.

CR sets sights on future

REPUBLICANS, from page 1

panding College Republicans to lo-
cal schools such as the W&L law
school, VMI and Southern Virginia
University, increasing awareness of
political issues, and bringing con-
servative voices to campus.”

He noted, “We’ve got a great
fundraising effort underway, and ex-
pect to raise close to $10,000 this
year to make sure that we remain the
best party on campus.”

Of the 607 associated with CR,
Heath estimates that there is a core
of 60-70 “extremely dedicat ” mem-
bers, which includes the steering
committee of 36 students and an ex-
ecutive board of 5 ofﬁcers.

“Approximately 70 people
showed up to our first meeting, and
the ofﬁcers have received countess
e-mails from students that couldn’t

make it but want to get involved,”
Heath said.

He detailed plans that involve
assigning dorm, fraternity and so-
rority leaders to get out the vote.
There will also be several social
events, which will culminate with an
election—night party.

“We’ve stepped up organi-
zation a lot this year,” said
Zingarelli.

Whether or not CR will play
a significant role in city and
county politics remains to be
seen, but Bryant stressed, “Re-
gardless of the outcome in any
election, or the impact we think
we might be able to have, it is
important that we do our civic
duty and go out and vote.”

For more infomiation about Wash-
ington and Lee College Republicans,
visit http://republicans.wlu.edu.

  

MONDAY, SEPFEMBER 30, 2002'

 

A notice from

The Executive Committee
of THE STUDENT BODY

Gerald M. Titus, III
President

Kempton W. Presley
I/zce President

Helen B. Hughes
Secretary

September 23, 2002

A member of the Student
Body has withdrawn after
being found guilty of an
Honor Violation. The
student took another’s
work from the Internet
and submitted it as his/her
own work for a Psychology

paper.

Mock Convention leaders

re/ease road map for 2004

MOCK CON, from page 1

sociate Dean of Students Leroy
Atkins, and University Architect Tom
Contos for assisting in the move.

“I was happy to be of assis-
tance,” said Howison. “In my entire
experience, this is the most impres-
sive student—run organization that
I’ve ever seen.”

Movement into the new ofﬁce
was delayed when Physical Plant
broke a key off in the door’s lock, Clark
said. Last Friday was the first meet-
ing in the new ofﬁce.

Mock Con will move again when-
ever space in the new University Com-
mons becomes available.

Try ours. t’r’s shade grown. organic
onct‘ON SALE this month. $7.99 crtl
flavors. Customer quote: “Ami
alioweo‘ to just stand here and smell’
your coffee? You don‘? mind, do you?“

Each Fruits

and Veggies -
portable, quick eats.
No Insecticides or pesticides.
Customer quote: “ You can eat
these. and they won '1‘ hurt you.

S tract: Feodv good friends good timer». “me me” In a road”

we have all manner of chips and dips.
sodas and solscis. juices. wcrter, you name It.
Customer quote: “I can so have this for
breokfasr! Look ifs neomhy."

Coor. SPRING
OR MARKEI

aoosouth Morn street. Lexington VA (540)463-6506
(Next to the Rockbrldge Farmers Coop)

p Our food tastes good because it is good.

in-Va at 

 ii... aria; s..;:a°ra  I a} ti.-rz ta 

‘are a r flit: I   

O3» Java at

i... %;...ai.s...« e....:s.§.t a...2.;,W_:r‘r’

Java at.

he jg
tlie CllO\;e
   CllQ\=*e

I

  

,,MoNoAY, SEPTEMBER 30, 2002

SllliRll3l§PlilDlTORlAL

F . . . .
UI11VCfS1lIy SC€l(S immunity
from parental lawsuits

3 There are many reasons not to drink, and

Washington and Lee publicizes many of them.
Here’s one that isn’t mentioned, but may be
the root of many recent policies: if you get

.. drunk, and injured seriously, mortally, or su-

perficially, your relatives could sue the Uni-
versity. If you’re in a body cast, that might
be the last of your worries. Why should you

‘ care about the University’s fiscal condition,

particularly if the institution makes Mother
and Father a remunerative apology?

Sirriilarly, though, why should the Univer-
sity care about you? Don’t get us wrong. It
is in W&L’s interest to have as many physi-
cally fit, mentally alert, and morally strait stu-
dents as possible. The administration would
like nothing better than for every student to
have a great time here, live a productive life,
and grant a generous behest to his alma
mater. Present contentment makes for fu-
ture benefits, and the school is non incautus

futuri.

But when the interests of an individual
student and the institution conﬂict, it’s not dif-
ficult to see who’s going to take the fall. This
is exemplified in one of W&L’s proudest tra-
ditions, our honor system. Even if it could be
proven that a malefactor, catch stealing or
cheating, would reform, he would be dis-
missed. Even if he would benefit tremen-
dously from continued enrollment, he would
be dismissed. The good of the one cannot
outweigh our student body’s desire to have a
safe campus and an honorable academic
environment.

With this in mind, consider the campus
drinking situation. Why are drinking games,
hard liquor, and kegs being forbidden to fra-
ternities, which are university-owned prop-
erty? Is it because the liability there is far
greater than at country houses or private resi-
dences?

Few would accuse our adrriinistrators of
trading student safety for protection from li-
ability. Traveller is an example of a program
designed to reduce accidents and DUI’s.
However, it is equally clear that the adminis-
tration, since the Fraternity Renaissance, has
been systematically, slowly moving to ban all
alcohol from Greek houses.

The University is a powder keg stuffed
with potential lawsuits. Here live and work
1700 men and women from the riskiest de-
mographic group on the curve, the late teens
to early twenties. W&L, though heavily en-
dowed for its size, has only a fraction of the
coffers of Harvard, whose endowment is sec-
ond only to the American Catholic Church’s.
Considering the bad economy, what money
the University does have is being funneled
into building projects.

No administrator wants to see “The
Campaign for the Rising Generation” turn into
“The Campaign to Prevent W&L from De-
claring Chapter Thirteen.”

 
 

Editors in chief Katie J. Howell
MatthewB.McDermott
News Editor Andi'ewLatimer
Opinions Editor ImranNaeemullah
Arts & Life Editor Catherine C. Guy
Sports Editor Jeremy Franklin
Asst. Sports Editor Dave Crowell
Photo Editor Jeb Brooks
Photographers McQueen Calvert
Tallie Jamison
Business Manager Paul Seifert
Asst. Business Manager ThomasWorthy
Circulation Director HarryGrimball

THE

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee Univer-
sity, Lexington, Virginia. The Washington and Lee Publi-
cations Board elects the Editors in chief, but The Ring-
tum Phi is otherwise independent.

. The Ring—tum Phi welcomes all responsible submis-
sions and letters. All submissions must be e-mailed to
phi@wlu.edu or in the University Center mailbox by 5
pm. Friday to appear in the following week’s edition. The
Ring—tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for con-
tent and length. Letters and oolumns do not necessarily
reﬂect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Ad-
vertising does not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring—tum Phi
or its staff. This newspaper observes current court defirii-
tions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Mailing Address: University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Street Address: 31 Washington Street
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Fax: (540) 462-4059
Email: phi@wlu.edu
http://phi.wlu.edu

THE Rm;-'i‘iiiiti Pm

PINIONS

.. - L... #54.

UEMONSEDHOR
FJ\/iAll;NAEHvlUllAlll@Wllil§l)U

liberals depe_n_dwon conservatives

A favorite refrain I hear many
liberals use to justify their latest
dream or mission is that all that needs
to happen is for people to accept and
adopt their proposal, and all will be
ﬁne. The underlying presumption is
that given x, adding y will not change
the value of x, but rather, make it a
more pure x. In other words, they pro-
pose the mathematically (and literally)
impossible, but use ﬂowery language
to disguise this obvious disconnect.
Unfortunately, all too often they suc-
ceed in this deception (even if they
themselves do not see it as such, lost
as they are in their blindness), and
society is slowly changing for the
worse, not the better.

Lest the above paragraph be
taken as a scathing indictment of lib-
eralism, it is not. Acertain liberalism is
necessary in any society to prevent it
from stagnating, in order to promote
the free ﬂow of new ideas. Webster’s
defines a liberal as “one who favors
greater freedom in political or religious
matters.” Yet, this deﬁnition is far from
the one that has been thrust forth
upon society in the past several de-
cades. This form, more extreme and
more provocative, hardly evokes the
moderation and level—headed progres-
sivism; instead, it describes the often
counter-productive ideas of pipe
dreamers.

To explain
my earlier matliemati—
cal analogy, look at it
this way. Society is a
rock formed by conservative values,
which favor abstaining from change
save for its betterment. Liberal ideas
which stray from this admittedly re-
strictive definition slowly erode from
the foundation which holds this rock

RIGHT-WING RESPONSE
lMlLll\l NiEEMULLagj)_5

-~.\.-.

C .

UTFERLY DEPENDENT. Although they desire to be seen as fearless champions of justice
and “progress,” liberals rely on conservativism to function as society’s foundation.

in place. While it has not yet hap-
pened, the point will eventually come
where the rock tumbles, and chaos
ensues.

Perhaps the
most significant
example of this was
the Vietnam War,
which when analyzed from a purely
“traditional” versus “liberal” perspec-
tive (ignoring the morality or lack
thereof of the war), created the big-
gest chasm in American society since
the Civil War. It divided Americans

into two general camps: those who
eschewed pre-political support for
America, and those whose support for
America was conditional upon the
morality of its policies. The latter
group has steadily increased in size,
and has reared its face most recently
in the renewal of the Iraq conﬂict, in
which the doves are harping about
United Nations involvement and the
necessity of obtaining the approval
of our so—ca1led European allies.

See LIBERALS, page 4

W&L men must ponder sacriﬁces

To all male students of Washington and Lee Univer-

ages of eighteen and thirty because we are in college.

sity: In response to the attacks on New York City and We would be the govemment’s last call in the draft. So
Washington D.C. last September, Congress, along with what about the other kids that are our age that are not so
President Bush, declared a “War on Terror-

ism” against an “Axis of Evil” which threat-

REALITY CHECK

ens all our lives. Now there is talk in our

Nation’s capitol of yet another war; a war

§_BLRliTT DAWS ‘06

against Iraq. Hopefully war will not have to
occur at all, but for the sake of discussion, let’s say it million other men (and yes, women, too) who have fought
and died in order to protect the liberties that we as citi-

does.
God be willing, this second

fortunate to be enrolled as a college
student? What happens to them
when their number comes up? Imag-
ine the feeling, getting a call that it
was your turn to enter the shoes of a

zens take for granted ev-

war against Iraq will very much
resemble the war we all saw on
CNN eleven years ago. However,
once again for the sake of con-
versation alone, let’s assume it’s
nothing like the battle we saw in
1991; an American offensive that
is supposed last a week results in
total failure. This failure opens the
eyes of millions because we all re-
alize that this war will last a year,
maybe ﬁve, or maybe even ten.
All of a sudden, this scenario
seems frighteningly similar to a
small policing action of the 1960’s.

Yes, the Vietnam conﬂict, a
“war” that ended the lives of hun-
dreds of thousands American
males. So, what does this have to
do with anything? Well, the last
time we saw the use of a draft was
the Vietnam War. But here lies the
real questions: What will happen
if this second invasion of Iraq
eventually calls for the use of the
draft? Who will go and who will

stay? And what would your reaction be to a draft?
We are the luckiest of all males in between the

“Jeff Lusk.”
—Mike Whitecar ‘O5

 

“Jay Smith.”
-Meredith Bailey ‘05

  
    

9

“Cara Cronin.’

—Aaron Metrailer ‘O5

 

“Mrs. Ed.”
-Dustin Albright ‘03

cw or lVW1t‘LG()()C1ECDM
THEY SACRIFICED. In the present conﬂict with Iraq, we
must keep in mind the sacriﬁces our forebears made

to ensure our freedom.

eryday of our lives. Emo-
tions such as pride, honor,
fear, and apprehension
would all flow through
your body as you got your
call.

As university stu-
dents, we have an awesome
amount of power with re-
gards to inﬂuencing public
policy. You want proof?
Take a look at the 1960’s;
had it not been for the
fierce political activism of
college students, the Viet-
nam conﬂict may have cost
our nation many more lives.

So next time you see
on the news or read in the
paper a story covering the
current tension between
the United States of
America and Iraq take a
minute to reﬂect on those
who died before you in or-
der to protect your way of

life, and think about how you can carry on this legacy by
protecting those who will come after you.

‘ ‘Max Adler.’ ’
—Neth Walker ‘04

Eﬁ.

C‘

esident Burish.”
-Arme Callison ‘05

PAGE 3

Homecoming is a
time for festivities
and alumni lessons

Students learn and uphold ﬁne W&L
traditions by speaking with recent alums

Nothing is a greater testament to the strength of
a Washington and Lee education than the success of
its alumni. With Homecoming weekend looming in the
near future, indeed

all eager __,¥__.._
undergrads anx- oRrEERNER’sEXi>osURE
iously await the KRISPOLLINA04

wealth of wisdom
accompanying their
advent, which some rriight even overzealously refer
to as “the second coming of Christ.”

It’s always unduly insightful to hear how recent
alums utilize or reject what they learned in college,
and how W&L measures up in the proverbial “real
world.” (On a side note, I think we’ve reached the
legal lirriit on articles arguing that W&L is not an ac-
curate reﬂection of the “real world,’’ an assertion that
is not only unoriginal, but painfully superﬂuous.)

Although hearing about how it sucks to wake up
to go to work- as opposed to waking up for an early
class— does not provide any real good knowledge, on
occasion, they do impart some timeless wisdom. With-
out further mindless introduction, nor conducting any
more word counts, here are the top 10 things I’ve
learned from recently graduated Washington and Lee
alumni: (I’ ve had little encounters with the older crowd,
so their scope of advice arguably might differ slightly
in both content and form.)

1.) If you hook up with a boy and it snows the
night before, his fraternity brothers will chase you off
the porch and throw snowballs at you.

2.) If you fall on the porch, everyone will laugh.

3.) There are two types of girls: those who stay
and those who scamper.

4.) No one goes out in Manhattan before 11PM.

5.) The freshman fifteen is counteracted by the
“l5’ year out of college 15 drop.” Apparently it results
from a Frosted Flakes and Ramen diet.

6.) Alumni still are in touch with W&L gossip
and receive popular forwards.

7.) They secretly miss getting campus notices,
if only to delete them immediately upon receiving them.

8.) It’s easier to get a job if you do things like
accounting and business stuff.

9.) Al u m s
forget how eco-
nomical East Lex
and the Palms
are. (Irish car
bombs cost $40 at
any other bar.)

10.) L A
Lights got
banned from the
NBA.

The first
three were gems
I absorbed last
Alumni Weekend
that still apply to
college life. It’s
such a nice thing
to do, for a grad

 

, to be all inforina—

" tive.
coUmsyoFWW.cooc.i£coM which is
CHEAPER HERE. Upon leaving W&L, why when they
everyonc’sfav01ittd1inkbec0tI1csp1ice)I all come this

weekend, we
should display acute appreciation for everything they
have to offer and listen carefully.

After all, one day we will be in the same position
to look at younger people and have free range to talk
about college with charming nostalgia. We should
take good notes. (Another useful tip that applies to
college life. I delight myself with such linguistic du-
alities.)

 

“My boyfrien .”
—Adrienne Norwood ‘O5

 

“Abram ‘DJ J onas’Trosky.”
-Cristin Nunez ‘O5

 

 

  

PAGE 4

 



Tolerance of homosexuality lacking at W&L

“You did WHAT?!” Suppose you
woke up one morning. You’re late for
class, you haven’t had breakfast, your
hair is a mess and you don’t really
have time for a shower. In the middle
of hopping on one foot to put your
socks on you realize you
never actually finished
that big paper that’s due
(when else?) today. Oh,
yes. Typical college day.
Typical, except for one thing: you’re
gay. At Washington and Lee, that’s
anything but ordinary.

I’m a freshman. I’m also an inter-
national student. Both these things
together add up to a very limited
amount of knowledge about Ameri-
can college culture. I came here with
the ‘land of the free’ ringing in my
head, which meant expectations about
openness and liberal mindedness. In
some respects, I was dead—on right.
In others, I could not have been more
wrong. One of my major mistakes was
thinking that most American college
students are tolerant and open when
it comes to homosexuality. Sadly, as
most of you probably know, that’s
deﬁnitely not the case at W&L.

My first inkling of this came
when I decided to join the Gay—Straight
Alliance. I’d always been interested
in this kind of organization, but I’d
never had the chance to join because

my school never had one (it was re-
ally very small). I eagerly signed up
and was mildly surprised to see I was
the only freshman on the list. I de-
cided I’d single-handedly correct that
and proceeded to state the innumer-

able reasons

TroNAL’S INSIGHTS Why We
should all
LIGIA ABREU ‘06 Join the GSA

to anyone
who would listen. Strange looks (a
mixture of disgustand fear), doors-
shut-in—my—face and exclarnations of
“You did what?! Are you gay?!” were
some of the most encouraging reac-
tions I got.

Last Wednesday, Sept. 25”‘, I at-
tended my first meeting of the GSA. I
had a chance to actually talk about
some of these issues with people as
willing and eager to discuss them as I
was. I was pleased, if a bit surprised,
to see members of the faculty (includ-
ing the GSA’s faculty advisor Prof.
Julie Woodzicka) and administration
present. All in all, there were about
thirty people there, which was a ‘good
tum—out’ in a 2,000-plus people cam-
pus. After a little chatting and a lot of
pizza, the formal part of the meeting
began. The three co—chairs (Rian
Lewis, Herman Hoying and Kelly Jo
Larsen) made one thing clear: the GSA
is here to stay, and we’re going to let

people know. I ﬁnally worked up the
nerve to ask the question that had
been nagging at me for a while: how
many students are openly gay on carn-
pus? Answer: Zero. Zero undergradu-
ate students are openly gay. Zero. In
my opinion, that number says a lot
more about how tolerant and open-
minded the majority of our students
are than about how many homosexual
students actually attend Washington
and Lee.

On a more positive note, the cam-
pus has actually become noticeably
more open during the past few years.
Dean Howison (who attended the
meeting and absolutely blew me away
with his willingness to fully support
the GSA) mentioned that a few years
ago, a meeting like the one held last
week wouldn’t even have been pos-
sible. Clear (not to mention encour-
aging) evidence that our school is
actually becoming progressively open
to homosexuality: an openly gay stu-
dent, Jeff Cook, was elected President
of the Executive Committee just a few
years ago. I’m deﬁnitely ecstatic about
that fact, but then again, how many
gay students are in the EC now?

Frankly, I don’t know what the
problem is. You’re gay or you’re
straight; you’re human. You deserve
to be taken seriously and to be ac-
cepted as you are, no questions

asked, because you’re an individual
with something valuable to give: you
are unique. I understand fear, I under-
stand ignorance and intolerance, but
I don’t understand it in a community
of people as highly educated and in-
telligent as ours. I’m sure that most
students are hesitant to join the GSA
on the grounds that they might be
considered gay themselves; so what?
It’s no one’s business whether you
are gay, straight, bisexual, or lesbian.
What is everyone’s business, right
and responsibility is to foster a toler-
ant, open and welcoming environment
to individual diversity, be it racial, eth-
nic, religious or sexual.

It’s about time ‘gay’ stopped be-
ing a derogatory term for everything
that’s lame or stupid, or a hush—hush
whisper about so-and-so’s activities
last weekend. It’s about time being gay
on this campus stopped being a car-
dinal sin and became ordinary. This is
not a black and white world. Open
your eyes and celebrate the differ-
ences. And, if you feel like it, drop by
the next GSA meeting and let us know.

N ote: It’s the Gay—Straight Alli-
ance. You don’t have to be gay to
join. Anyone who’s willing to pro-
mote a tolerant environment for ho-
mosexual and bisexual students, fac-
ulty and administration is welcome
to sign up.

LIBERALISM: denies reality and depends on status quo

RELIGION, from page 3

The question is, How does this ap-
ply to our lives? There are two realms
which are relevant to us: one is life at
Washington and Lee, and the other is
our lives as ordinary Americans. As a
group, W&L students tend to be con-
servative—minded, if not necessarily in
their social conventions (ie., this is not a
socially conservative school in the sense
that Bob Jones University is), then cer-
tainly in their approach to tradition and
the status quo. Those who have read
my columns over the past year realize I
am something of a traditionalist when it
comes to W&L affairs, and I am gener-
ally opposed to frivolous changes and
antagonistic activist groups, because I
see them as detracting from the quality
of life which makes W&L such a unique
institution of higher learning.

Unfortunately, on certain issues,
such as the one of “diversity,” the trend
is to increasingly marginalize and dis-
criminate against conservative thought,
and to shift the spectrum of debate so
that the deﬁnition “nomral” is somewhere
around “moderately liberal” and that
mainstream conservative thought be-
comes extremist, to say nothing of ultra-
ri t—wing views (which I will admit are
sometimes draconic and out of line).
This, of course, merely reﬂects what is

 

the increasing norm in'American media,
but is alarming at a traditionally rational
institution like Washington and Lee.
The view taken by certain campus
groups which advocate radical change
is that if their solutions are adopted as
policy, then all will be the same save for
the happier new existence. In other
words, they believe that Washington and
Lee will remain the same charming and
impressive institution it is even if their
changes are implemented. Sometimes,
they are right; however, many of the
changes proposed at W&L of late (and
which will surely be increasingly popu-
lar in the years to come), will eventually
cause the rock that is W&L’s founda-
tion to shift. We can take our cherished
traditions for granted because W&L has
changed relatively little all things con-
sidered (coeducation, for allof its irn—
pact, merely added a gender and has
not dramatically affected the student
body’s political demographic), but if radi-
cal changes become the norm, then it
will be difﬁcult to maintain these tradi-
tions when increasingly large propor-
tions of W&L students are unfamiliar
with them and unwilling to leam them.
We must be on guard to ensure that the
changes necessary to keep W&L com-
petitive and to mold students who are
prepared for the “real world” are merely

what is necessary, and not what is fool-
ish.

The same view applies to society
as a whole. Much as America is like
Washington and Lee in that it is great
and its principles and traditions are un-
rivaled, there is only so much change
that can happen before its rock of sup-
port begins to shift. Changes that lib-
eral groups constantly and increasingly
advocate in society will eventually
cause our moral fabric to crumble. Pres-
ently, the cautionary tales of some con-
servatives to the contrary, America is
an overwhelmingly moral country. We
are generally an honest, hard—working,
and decent people; yet, we must remem-
ber that we adhere to these values be-
cause they have been passed down to
us from our ancestors. If we fail to en-
sure that the present young generation
(that means us, folks) understands and
strives to fulﬁll the ideals which make
this country great, then we will be liv-
ing on borrowed capital.

The Europeans are a prime example
of this: having suffered the tragedy of
two terrible wars on their continent in
the space of only a few decades, their
societies were so severely tested that
their traditional moral fabric crumbled
and gave way to a new, post—modem
order. While this is not to say that Euro-

pean society does not still retain many
traditional aspects (particularly in the
countryside), the cities increasingly re-
ﬂect a new Europe that is frighteningly
undemocratic and places far too much
trust in remote central governments
with immensely bureaucratic methods
of governance.

As Rod Dreher recently wrote in
National Review, the Dutch are a people
who are dependent on the moral splen-
dor of their glorious past to provide sus-
tenance for the future. Fortunately, tra-
ditional Europeans (who remember all
too well the decidedly authoritarian and
freedom—hating governments of their
past) are increasingly organizing and
protesting against the eerily similar ideas
of many of their governments. The dan-
ger lies in the pendulurn’s swinging too
far to the right, and eliminating the de-
gree of liberalism necessary to prevent
society’s stagnation; this is why liber-
als must regulate themselves, in order
to prevent a chaotic breakdown in the
social order that can only result in some
form of bad government. Liberalism is
no bad thing; it is simply an ideal its
adherents must realize comes with an
adaptation George Santayar1a’s famous
disclaimer: those who are unaware of
and do not honor the heritage of their
ideals are condemned to destroy them.

 

6,5 FUN CARDS - APRiL CORNELL CLOTHING - PURSES

 

~ 121 W. Nelson Street
Lexington, VA 24450

540.464.5002
www.shoppumpIcinseeds.com

lg) ECLECTtC .¥EWELRY - CANDLES - GIFTS GALORE - FRAMES

9&3 SLVH 0 SdVOS 0 SC)il.E‘-IWSOO WOO18 - )6.-lVEl 80:! SGNH enema C3’

MITTENS 0 STATIONERY 0 HOME ACCENTS

V
1

SELL SPRING BREAK TRIPS
ALL THE FUN & ALL THE PROTECTIONS
AMERICAN EXPRESS WORLDWIDE
GUARANTEED BEST BUY
IFREETRIPFOR EVERY 10 PAID
OR CA$H STARTING WITH FIRST BOOKING
YOU SELL — WE COLLECT PAYMENTS
WORLD CLASS VACATIONS
1-800-222-4432

Alain--Beatriz

Spring Break 2003 with STS
America’s #1 Student Tour
Operator
Sell Trips earn cash Travel Free
Information/Reservations
1-800-648-4849 or
www.ststravel.com

Well, it’s election time in Wash-
ington again and things could not be
much worse. I was watching Fox News
Charmel last night and they had a
couple of talking heads on arguing
about whether or not Republicans and
Democrats should be politicizing the
war. Neither really seemed to have a
problem with it, but one was blaming
the Republicans for whining about
things and an-
other was blam-
ing the Demo-
crats for whining
about things. Is
this really what is so important?

I have to say with my sister
being a Navy Ensign who could be
shipped across the planet at any time,
I really hope discussions on the possi-
bility of war are about a little more than
constituents’ votes.

But what’s curious is how
little the American public already
knows. This past week when British

LEFT or CENTER
NICHOIAS RAMSEY ‘O3 babe is being blbudbd by

 

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 30, 2002 -

Lack of Iraq data dismaying

tack any country. . .. ever.

And what is the rush? Iraq is
not going anywhere. In 1990 the Sen-
ate took ﬁve months after Iraq invaded
Kuwait before launching the Gulf War.
That was then and now Iraq is not even
harming anyone else at the moment. If
the American and British govemment
wants to send our soldiers into a coun-
try to start a war, I would like to at least
no for sure what they
have.

Moreover, the de-

members of both parties
over politics. Our Republican President
is trying to sell the war against Iraq
during election time to draw attention
away from two things: the lack of suc-
cess against the war in Afghanistan
and the wavering economy. When is
the last time you heard the White
House mention our soldiers still ﬁght-
ing al Qaeda? Secondly, did you no-
tice as well that the Dow fell by nearly

3!!

Prime Minister, Tony Blair, armounced three hundred points on Friday?

that Iraq has M e a n —
weapons of mass while, Tom
destruction and Daschle is
soon will have pissing and
nuclear war— moaning over
heads, he offered the ridiculous
no new evidence. statement Bush
When the press made early last i
asked the Presi— week. Bush ac-
dent how Blair cused Senate
knewthesethings, Democrats of
he stated that not caring about
their sources  American’s secu-
would need to be ammo, WGOOQECOM rity. Whilethis is
protected. Thus, 'I‘Hra(:RYnABY.SenDasclrlcmrusuallydrrew merely playing
just like Bush Sr. 21 feigned hissy ﬁt on the Senate ﬂoor. politics, it is truly
the public is al- a stupid, stupid

ready having the blinders put on them
during this “time of war.” It is quite remi-
niscent to the Persian Gulf when re-
porters were only allowed to know what
the Pentagon and the White House
gave their stamp of approval.

But what is the big deal here?
Well, human lives to be truthful. If the
United States launches an attack on
Iraq, American men and women will be
sent across the world to begin the ﬁrst
preemptive attack in the entire 213—year
history of this country. No American
President has ever been the ﬁrst to at-

accusation. Meanwhile, Daschle is ask-
ing for an apology.

As for someone speaking his
mind, that wouldbeAl Gore. Like what
he has to say or not, the man is actually
giving a real opinion backed by a real
argument. More politics comes into
play as Republicans run to the, “you’re
against the President, you’re un-Ameri-
can! ! !” defense. I-low original.

Instead of all this, Washing-
ton should sit down, look at the issue
and give the public the resources to
appreciate an informed decision.

 

WE CAN DO IT!

Repairs ~ Contacts

COOL FRAMES!
HOT LENSES!
SHADES!

THE NEW @W’il@li£lE£|§

20 years serving Rockbridge
at 203 N. Main Street, Lexington
463-7440

102 W. Washington St.
463-5383

WELCOME ALUMN

Blue Blazers

Woolrich
Duckhead

Lacoste Shirts

Red Wing Boots
Tuxedo Rentals & Sales
W&L Belts, Ties, Sandals, Dog Collars

Homecoming Special
Suits & Sportscoats
20% Off

Open Sunday, October 6th at 9:00 a.m.

Since 1963
Master Card

Student Charge

 

 

i 4 CAlllFl{lNEC.GLT

)lWi":l.ii. R.ll‘si(_i*"iii:iKi i}? Aju3&L1FEEDm)R

RT :[Fl 3 EMiH_‘(;UYC@\l0IL‘.El)E

Pil‘GE 5 ’ __J MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 30, 2002

Bands 1‘0      mug 1-Bxingt

BY SHARYN REGAN
STAFF WRITER

A plethora of bands came to nu-
mbrous frat houses at Washington
and Lee last weekend, providing
good, clean fun for students every-
where.

I Five—man student band Geor-
gia Avenue kicked off the week-
end with a show at Phi Psi on Fri-
day night. The crowd was rela-
tively small due to the early show
time, but listeners seemed to en-

. joy mildly what they heard. It

served as background music to

the chit-chat that took place in _ 

c'i>wds clustered around comfort-
able couches. The band has been
traveling the East coast and Mid-
west playing over one hundred
shows a year to audiences at col-
leges and clubs. They have a
funky sound, and they performed
their own music for a while until
someone requested they play a
fntw covers. Georgia Avenue was
not loud or terribly energetic, but
instead, according to the biogra-
phy on their website “combine[d]
the earnest soundscapes of
Csoldplay and Travis with the
songwriting brilliance of the
Counting Crows, Wilco, Train and
Five for Fighting.”

in J innnie’s Chicken Shack, a band
based out of Annapolis, MD, one of
the more famous bands to perform
on our campus, played Friday in the
basement at PiKA and drew an ex-
ceptionally rowdy crowd. In fact, a
male in a pale yellow collared shirt
started a mosh pit, thereby forcing
all girls to the back of the room and
moving that the music was quite ap-
preciated. The highlight of the con-
cert came when Jimmie’s Chicken
Shack played their famed single “Do
Right” and popped in cuts from
iSﬁ1blime’s “Smoke Two Joints.”
Many W&L students were given the
opportunity to visit with the band af-
ter the show, including Freshman
Erin Wascom, who said of the band,
‘”'l'hey..were really nice andlchill. I
love their song -“High” and how they
mixed Sublime into their line-up. The
rapper featured added a kick. They
are just a great live band.”

On Saturday afternoon, Chi Psi
whipped out the beer and the slip-
n-slide and had a Hootie and the
Blowf1sh—like band from North Caro-
lina called Weekend Excursion play.
The band set up stage on the front

lawn of the frat house and ‘ j ammed’_ ,

in the most mellow sense of the
word. Their sty1e..I;e.nded toward a
melodic, hook—laden rock. Viewers
lounged on carpets and couches

   

Clockwise from top left:
Graham Colton

(wwwgraharncoltorrcom),
]immie’s Chicken Shack

(wwwgarbageofedencorn),

Georgia

Avenue

(wwwgeorgiaavenuecorn),
Weekend Excursion

while the group played a few famil-
iar covers, such as “Johnny. Be
Good,” and their own more obscure
songs. The songs featured impres-
sive guitar solos and a tambourine
(always a crowd—pleaser).

, Snackbar Jones, a well—known
favorite among drunken W&L stu-
dents, performed last Saturday
evening at Phi Psi. Aband from Vir-
ginia Beach, Snackbar Jones has

been playing together since 1996.
Snackbar consists of four musicians
and a female lead singer. Popular on
college campuses along the east
coast, Snackbar Jones specializes in
hip—hop, 70’s, 80’s, alternative and
modern rock. Their ability to mimic
the bands they cover is uncanny,
thereby sending young listeners
into a frenzy of dancing and practi-
cally forcing them to sing along. All

in all, the partygoers that attended
Snackbar Jones’ show reacted posi-
tively. “I’d love to see them again,”
said Freshman Ashley Warren.
The ladies loved Graham
Colton, who performed at Kappa
Sig on Saturday night. The singer
from Oklahoma City and his band
played a few cover‘ songs along
with some of their own, which, ac-
cording to sophomore and

      W&L hﬂife

hardcore fan Christina Kolock, fea-
ture “amazing lyrics.” Graham
Colton played side shows for The
Dave Matthews Band all summer
and will be going on tour with the
Counting Crows in a few weeks.
Kolock raved, “I think he is amaz-
ingly-talented and incredibly down
to earth. I can’t believe W&L got
him to play here considering his
recent successes.”

American learns lesson in haggling

Capitalism is alive and flourishing in modern China, as student sees firsthand

Luckily for the Chinese, Deng Xiao Ping implemented
“Qpening reforms” in the mid—1980’s. Gone were the com-
munes and white elephant state—owned-enterprises, here
to stay are Schlotzky’s Deli and lkea. N o more green and
brown Mao suits, but designer clothing from CrocoPolo
(a cross between Ralph Lauren and Lacoste) and Play-
lﬁoy (or at least a shockingly similar bunny).

China’s success could truly be called a rniracle— it
was recently reported that China is now a more attrac-
tive market for foreign investment than the United States.

eijing’s streets are choked with Volkswagons, Audis
and Buicks while the skyline is punctuated by construc-
tion cranes sprouting in every direction.

Like Britain during the Industrial Revo- , T
lution or America’s Reconstruction period, 
(Ehina’s economy is now growing incredibly
fast and somewhat chaotically, because the
government has not yet implemented the regulatory con-
trol present in more mature economies. Every street—side
git seller and journeyman construction worker, every

‘ancier and industrialist is looking to make his fortune
today- and he just may. There are a few things, though,
that still need to be ironed out.

. Unemployment is an immense problem. It’s tough to
‘ﬁnd jobs for nearly a billion workers,
so every store, no matter what size, is
crawling with service personnel. At
least one is posted in every aisle and

a every display case. None of them
are particularly focused on service,
however; the job seems to involve a
lot of standing around and gawking
at foreigners.

! Construction is done almost en-
tirely by hand, by workers, usually
migrants from the countryside, who
live on site. Unlike here, excavation

oesn’t involve backhoes and steam
shovels, but pickaxes and jack ham-
mers (most of which seem to have
congregated outside my window).
Laying concrete doesn’t call for a
tlruck, but an endless line of two-
wheeled pull-carts.

The most obvious place where a visitor will re-
ally notice that the many Chinese are scrambling
for jobs, though, is at any tourist site, no matter
how insignificant. Every one, from the Great Wall
to the smallest art museum is jammed with a mob of
vendors.

My experience at the Great Wall is instructive. We
ttaveled three hours northeast of Beijing to an isolated
section of the wall, nonetheless, dutifully stationed near

 
 

LIVE FROM CHIN.-\
BRETT KlR\‘t:N:0_4l

THE I<EY 'l‘(') EI~'I«'E(:’II\'Ir.
B.»\R(;AININ<; Is 'I'() I)Ir.<:I1)r«;
\X/HAT YOU THINK Is _»\ I«'.\IR
r>RI(:E AND NFNER G() <)\'I«:R, N()
MA’I'I‘F.R WHAT H.~\PPl<‘.NS. IT
TURNS our TH;\'l‘ I’M w.\Y T()()
NICE. I’M :\ (I()i\IP].ETF. S()l*TIl£
AND A ’r<)'I2»\I. PUSHO\’l£R. P.T.
B.~\RNU.\I S.\ll) ’I'HERE’s .\
SUCKER BORN EVERY .\IINUI‘E;
I’M AT LEAST TEN .\IINL"I'I<«;s’
W()RTl~l.

the path to the wall was a platoon of vendors, like so
many leeches. They had been lounging, but as we passed,
they jumped up at the sight of thirty Americans. They
each picked a student to follow around, like snipers pick-
ing their marks. From then on, we each had a shadow, a
vendor hawking books, postcards, and “I Climbed the
Great Wall” T—shirts.

In fact, I wanted to buy each of these items, and
did, but being assaulted while attempting to enjoy the
grandeur of the Great Wall was terribly annoying. More
annoying, though, is the fact that I am a totally inept
bargainer. (Mom and Dad: Send more money!) Although
a refined art in China, the average
American is completely unprepared
to haggle, wheedle, prevaricate, plead
and beg just to buy a T-shirt.

I gave it the old college try,
though. She said 100, I said 30. She said 90, I said 35.
She said 90, I said 40. We went back and forth, but
then, she broke out the heaviest artillery— she
started to cry. “I’m just a poor farmer,” she whim-
pered, “There is a drought and I have no job.” No
job but ﬂeecing poor exchange students, that is. This
is when I lose, every time.

The key to effective bar-
gaining is to decide what you
think is a fair price and never go
over, no matter what happens.
It turns out that I’m way too
nice. I’m a complete softie and
a total pushover. P.T. Barnum
said there’s a sucker born every
minute; I’1n at least ten minutes’
worth. So, the vendor cried, and
we agreed on 70 RMB, about
nine dollars, for a book and some
postcards. One of my classmates
got the same book for 40 RMB.
At the base of the mountain,
similar books sold for 20 RMB.

Last weekend, I went to a small
art museum displaying the works of
a Communist-sympathizing painter.
There were three Americans and two Chinese visitors.
At least a half-dozen vendors clamored outside. They
outnumbered the tourists! They can’t be escaped and
all seem to know that I’m an easy mark.

In modern China, so long as one doesn’t criticize
the government too publicly or pass out Bibles, people
are more or less free to chase after the next renminbi.
It will be very interesting to see whether all this eco-
nomic freedom ever translates into freedom of a more
important variety.

Students make Colonnade Club goal, not tradition

    

BY TIM SMITH
ST.-\I<'I" \l'Rl’l‘F.R

This is my first printed article
since my glory days when I co-
wrote a piece in the Back Page
with former roomie, Michael
Denbow. I don’t claim to be the
orator that he is, but I’ve been
known to spout some fortune
cookie wisdom in my day, and
hopefully you will see that here.
So without further adieu:

Our beloved school is rich in
history and rife with traditions that,
unfortunately, may be seeing their
dying days. We’ve already suffered
the tragic departure of tailgating,
that magical experience that defined
halftime as a game break for players
and chance for spectators to pass
out from nine gin & tonics. And beer
pong, that fabled contest that de-
fined the nature of competitive
drinking, has faded from the base-
ments and dining rooms of our fra-
ternity mansions. Certainly, life in
Greek Central feels a little emptier
now that these frat rituals have
faded into memory.

But fear not, frat lords and so-
rority lasses. They might have taken
our ping pong balls and our Satur-
day morning Beam & Cokes, but a
few traditions have held on, to re-
mind us what life is all about. Ever
constant, those crazy Cadavers con-
tinue to paint that wretched un-
sightly face all over the campus. In
addition, a few adventurous souls
occasionally dare to explore W & L’s
catacombs, maintaining the legend-

ary tradition of tunneling. These
traditions are all sacred in their own
right, but there is one tradition,
above all others, that represents the
pinnacle of Greek life - indeed, it may
be the highest achievement for all
fraternity and sorority members. Of
course, I’m talking about the en-
trance into the fabled Colonnade
Club.

Acertain sophomore guy, when
asked about the Colonnade Club, re-
plied “Isn’t that a sandwich?” A
tragically wrong answer. Perhaps he
was uninformed, or perhaps he was
just hungry, but his response re-
veals a disturbing campus-wide ig-
norance of what the celebrated so-
ciety is all about. Simply put,.the
Colonnade Club is a collection of
students who have pulled off the
most stunning ambitious feat our
campus offers - they have, by the
grace of God and Robert E. Lee, suc-
cessfully “hooked—up” in each of
the five buildings in the Colonnade.
That’s right - they have whimpered
in Washington, been touched in
Tucker, felt passion in Payne, been
naked in Newcomb, and railed in
Robinson.

Beyond question, there are
doubters out there who ridicule
such suggestions, claiming that no
man or woman could pull off such a
tremendous accomplishment. But
rest assured, they are out there, eat-
ing at the Co-op, studying in
Leyburn, and sitting next to you in
history class (smiling, since you are
sitting in the desk they fooled
around on). They know who they

I UFO H.IUr\ B) A NDREW All. [ER fig
are, and they bask silently in the
glory that only they share. They
have lived their college lives to the
fullest, and to them, W & L means
just a little bit more.

But before you rush off to join
them and share the ultimate fulfill-
ment of Greek life, remember: this is
Washington and Lee, and the Honor
Code does apply. Be discrete and
be respectful. While you and your
partner in glory are “working it,”
other students are actually working,
and these diligent individuals al-
ways have the right—of—way. Fur-
thermore, security guard Rexrode
(though he is definitely da man) and
the other guards don’t get paid
enough to suffer the trauma of see-
ing students “bumping nasties” on
their shifts. And please please don’t
try breaking into Washington Hall
at night - such a violation would
negate any progress towards enter-
ing the Club (anyway, the locked
doors add the challenge of hooking
up during the day). Also, I should
say that President Burish’s office is
Off-Limits - give the guy a break, he
just got here. Finally, and this
should go without saying, I quote
the words of my father: “Don’t make
any babies.” So remember to visit
the Student Health Center before
you embark on your quest to
achieve the unimaginable and to fi-
nally discover what college was cre-
ated for.

Good luck with your efforts, and
if you want any free strategies for
your mission, feel free to call #463-
1160.

 

PAGE 6

  

BY ANDREW LATIMER
NEWS EDITOR

If jazz has a deﬁnite fault, it is that the entire genre
tends to take itself too seriously. As a novice listener, I
could not help but stare dumbfounded at articles or liner
notes by pretentious reviewers who peppered their text
with name after name, each one more obscure than the
last.

Any attempt I made at appreciating an artist or album,
somehow, some way I would end up discouraged because
I did not already pay proper homage with a collection of at
least 500 rare records and my required transcendental ex-
perience listening to Thelonius Monk in a hazy Parisian
cafe.

Perhaps this stems from its reputation as
“America’s music,” or the fact that its history is so
enmeshed with the struggle for civil rights due to its
distinctly African-American roots. The field is so ex-
clusive that I felt like a square like me simply could not
have any part of it.

What did I expect going into Saturday night’s
Sonoklect modern music performance by the Glenn
Ferris Trio? Expert musicianship and some profes-
sional solos, to be sure. But being an outsider, I
did not anticipate much of a connection with one
self—indulgent, gymnastic musical passage after an-
other.

So out strides this Zappa-esque trombone player, a
double-bassist and a cellist. Yes, a cellist. And no, there
were no drums, no piano, no guitarist or saxophone in
sight. One question: where did the jazz band go? Now I
just wanted to see if this trio could even get off the
ground.

What Ferris, bassist Bruno Rousselet and cel-
list Vincent Segal unleashed in the next hour was

  ARTS as; L
Glenn Fes blows audiene a

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 30, 20062

1 W
-E

cI)IIRiE.wGLE~IvFEIzRIsTRIo(iIn<(IIINmE(il)co\I=R
nothing short of astounding. The interplay be-
tween the two string players, the sheer imagina-
tion of it, prevented Ferris from completely steal-
ing the show.

But when the eccentric Ferris exercised his instru-
ment like some extension of his body, I could not help but
pay attention. Writhing and bending almost parallel to the
ground, in some passages he barely whispered into the
mouthpiece, only to follow that a minute later by wielded
his trombone like a demented shoulder-mounted aural
bazooka.

Selections like “The Life,” “Boy Boy” and “Blues
Forever Blues” stood out from the pack, yet there was
rarely a moment I felt like the trio was experimenting at the
expense of the audience. The hour was a straight, taut set
that came from a group that had a most remarkable chem-
istiy.

The second half of the show was reserved for
the second trio of the night, which Glenn Ferris
dubbed “Chrominance” and featured Ferris, Rousselet
and drummer Jeff Boudreaux. Their set was easily up
to par with the first, yet lacked the former’s sheer
audacity. With their soulful yet playful style, both
trios invited me to appreciate all the ability and ver-
satility that is jazz at the hands of four engrossing
performers.

Segal and Rousslet both hail from France,
and indeed Sonoklect director and professor
Terry Vosbein discovered Ferris and company in
Paris. It stunned me to find out that it was their
first performance in the United States, not to
mention that their CD’s are impossible to find
stateside. Everyone who experienced the Glenn
Ferris Trios owes Vosbein a hefty debt of grati-
tude, and those who missed out should be kick-
ing themselves.

Investment society bankrupts coffers, morals

BY BRYAN EARLY
STAFF WRITER

LEXINGTON (Rooters) - With
the stock market’s steady decline
over the past 18 months, the possi-
bility of war with Iraq, and continued
uncertainty of whether President
Bush can formulate an economic pack-
age that does not involve the words
“tax cuts,” the Williams Investment
Society was forced to hold an emer-
gency meeting of its Executive Board
September 16 to reappraise its ﬁscal
solvency.

The Executive Board met at 7
AM for a planned 7-hour session to
assess the current value of its securi-
ties, reevaluate its investment strat-
egy, and brainstorm new capital—rais-
ing techniques. When the Board sum-
moned its Chief Financial Ofﬁcer to
review its balance sheet of invest-
ments, it was shocked to ﬁnd that it
was left with only $11.59 in assets.
As malnourished Board Member Der-
iick Wheellee dourly noted, “It wasn’t
even enough to cover pizza for lunch.”

“According to our ﬁnancial state-
ments from one year ago, even tak-
ing iiito account stock market turmoil,
we should still have millions left,”
stated the CEO Wendell Williams
LXVH, citing the Williams Investment
Society’s painstakingly documented
ﬁnancial statements that had been
signed off on by Arthur Anderson.

“It’s‘not like we had acted irre-
sponsibly by investing in risky tech
stocks. We meticulously researched
our investments and only had secu-
rities in reliable securities such as
Enron, United Airlines, Tyko,
Adelphia, and sports bets on the Chi-
cago Cubs. 1 mean, honestly, who
could have predicted that Cubs would
totally cop out? This really was sup-
posed to be their year,” Williams
stated in a press release.

The Board decided that it needed
to take drastic steps to recover
enough assets to effectively return
to squandeiing them again.

After a 3-hour brainstorming
session, the William’s Investment So-
ciety formulated a daring new capital
reacquisition program based upon

Write for the Phi!

0nyat:’_

    Mats and WomerfsiSport$W§ar,tI.,,.      

    Outerwear, and  

 

NowAvailablel in Lexi,

Fraternitiesﬂsororities
clubs 0 student ttrnulls

Earn $1 ,000-$2,000 this semester with a proven CampusFundraiser
3 hour fundraising event. Our programs make fundraising easy
with norisks. Fundraising datesiare ﬁlling quickly, so get with
the program! It works. Contact CampusFundraiser at (888) 923-
3238, or visit www.campusfundraiser.com



W&L STUDENTS
Look YOUR BEST Fan HoMEcoMme!

Come by and see Skip, Marla, Connie and Wilson.

SKIP THOMPSON’S

little—known passage in the Lexing-
ton City Charter back to the Civil
War that allowed “Generals of the
Southern persuasion” to seize what-
ever resources necessary from the
citizenry in the “contest against
Northern ag-
gression.”

T h u s ,
WIS began its
“From a De-
clining Gen-
eration” Capi-
tal Drive to
mug, shake-
d o w n ,
swindle, and
scam every se-
nior citizen in
the greater Lexington area. The plan
utilizes a combination of Account-
ing majors armed with clubs and
Management majors armed with pil-
lowcases full of doorknobs to “en-
courage” local residents make “do—
nations” into the WIS’s coffers.

Williams announced that WIS
was proud to be following in hun-
dreds of years of proud tradition,
“Televangelists, PBS, the Alumni
Association, and the Collectible
Plate Division of the Franklin Mint

THE LAST WORD:
A MORI-i HUMOROUS,
1«IrrrIoNAI . SIDE
or THE RING—TUM PH1’s
ARTS & LIFE SECTION

have known for years that the elderly
are an excellent source of money. Th€

best part is, 90% of the time they don’t

miss or even remember that it’s gone.”

While the WIS’s plan has met
with some opposition from member;
of the EC who
have questioned
the honorability
of racketeering
and armed rob!
beries, the Will-
iams Investment
Society has de-
fended its cut’
throat capitalism
by saying that
nowhere in the
Honor Code does
it mention “pillowcase full of door.
knob” violations.

As CEO Williams explained to a
group of Washington & Lee Trust-
ees whom he was holding up at th
time, “We needed a quick ﬁx to our
ﬁnancial problems and after careful
consideration we decided that this
plan would be the most satisfactory
course to the greater Washington
and Lee community, with exception
to the History Department. Now give
me your wallets.”

.I..F..\'l;\I(}T().

BARBER SHOP

Reel Time Fly Fishing &,0utfitt¢;_v’   f’   
23WestWashington Stiff    .’  
ILexiI1§Ion.VA 24450  .. -  ’ 1  "

I     462-6100"!-E    
www;reeltimeflyfisliingxom 

.-If/r?(Jt?.IIi'1"a"‘y (.'u.uri;J5:z'I3_4y-

 

22 S. Main Street 0 Lexington, VA
Open Mon., Tues., Thurs., & Fri. 8 a.m. - 5 p.m.
Sat. 8 a.m. - noon; Closed Wed. & Sun.
540-463-5954

ESPRESSO - CAPPUQCINO ‘ EAGELS * MUFFINS - CROFSSANTS
9 WEST WASHINGTON STREET ' LEXINIRTON ' 464-6586

     

NELSON FINE AI-11:»
GALLERY

27 W. Washington Street
Leadngton, Vlrglnla
540-463-9827
www.ne|sonfineartsgaIIery.oom

UPS-US MAIL-OVERNIGHT & INTERNATIONAL DELIVERY -

We will package and/or send your items! We can make it easy to ,I
get your things to and from school!

Pack and Mail  

ailing Center

3

0penDdIy1l a.m. -5p.m.
orbyappohtrnent
ClosodWednudays&Si.ndoys
r——T————-?——I

An artists’ cooperative
tounded in 1999.

Original works of painting and sculpture

 

R t:;‘:Sii‘:t:nt  We offer a PICK UP SERVICE to help you ship items home.

. ’ ’ CALL FOR MORE INFORMATION

WILLIAM E BYEBS Next to Subway on Nelson Street '

Hard—\X/orkjng, Friendly,
Strong Work Ethics. Apply at

The Victorian Parlour, BARBARACRAWFORD . , p
23 South Main St., DO:?)l'3I'$YB(aIgFK%I':ELL Package _Rece1vmg 4 _77 Package Storage
Lexington Jgiﬁmlﬁfgff Fax Services Supplies
KIIMH VAN SICKLE

540-464-8888 LEE SAUDER 5*

 

    
 

JiLlfﬁ\L‘.‘\Il kl/\. II\l\l.h\
SI>oI<IsEDIIoR’

Emu; FRil\llx’lll\ll@\X/lLl.FDL‘

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 30, 2002

  Tunoves, field

BARREIT DAWS/ THE RLNGTLMPHI

REVERSAL OF FORTUNE. junior Jon Brimer (17) runs a wide receiver reverse in
(fént.re’s 19-13 win over W&L on Saturday. Brimer had one catch for 28 yards.

BY BARRETT DAWS
SPORTS WRITER

Q4, DANVILLE, Ky. — The Wash-
ington and Lee football team left Lex-

Centre College. The two football
teams have now faced each other for
48 consecutive years.

The Generals were very optimis-
tic about winning the game; in the last

bIii0“Iif§

 
   

goals cause 19-13 Generls oss

Field, the Generals were looking for
some payback.

The scouting report looked prom-
ising, for Centre had lost most of its
top starters. However, the Colonels
outplayed W&L 19-13 in yet another
game that went down to the last play.

Unfortunately for the Generals, the
team had trouble building any sort of
momentum in the first half. Centre led
the game at the half by a score of 10-0.

During the second half, the Gen-
erals rallied and cut Centre’s lead to
10-7 thanks to a great interception by
junior defensive back Ted Mafﬁtt.

But the Colonels then scored nine
more points off of three Nick Zilich ﬁeld
goals to extend their lead to 19-7.

The Generals once again fought
back with another touchdown, making
the score 19-13 after the missed extra
point. On their ﬁnal possession, the
Colonels ran out the clock on W&L.

 

Generals had three fumbles; the re-
sulting Centre drives gave the Colo-
nels 13 points.

Despite the loss, senior Chris
Sullivan had yet another impressive
game, recording 29 carries for 1 15 yards.
Sullivan’s remarkable play has been a
driving force of Generals football.

Junior quarterback Peter Dean
also played well. He completed 7-of-
18 passes for 126 yards and two
touchdowns. Sophomore Taylor
Callaham caught four of Dean’s
passes for 67 yards. Callaham also was
responsible for both W&L touch-
downs.

Defensively, Mafﬁtt led the way
with 15 tackles, an interception, a
fumble recovery and a sack.

The loss to Centre this weekend
hit the Generals hard but also gave them
a good indication of what needs to be
worked on this week during practice.

PAGE 7

BARRETT DAWS/'lHE Rl.\'G—TL'll1PHl

 

W&L hosts Old Dominion Ath_ BACKFIELD COMBO. junior Peter Dean ﬁres a pass as senior tailback Chris Sullivan

1

N.

' I

ington for the second week in a row
on Saturday in order to battle one of
the school’s longest standing rivals,

seven years, the home team had only
won twice. In addition, after last
year’s 42-10 loss to Centre at Wilson

“If one thing kept the team from
victory, it was the turnovers,” W&L
head coach Frank Miriello said. The

letic Conference foe Randolph-Ma-
con at 1:30 p.m. on Saturday.

Kimmel serves as team, campus leader

coLIrrrsroI'SEoIrIs l2\'K)R\lA1l()N
SENIOR LEADERSHIP. Volleyball captain Stacey Kimmel has led
the Generals to a 13-4 record, including a 4-0 mark in the Old
Eominion Athletic Conference, this season.

W&L runs into
-busy weekend

BY DAVID CROWELL

.lsSIsI‘.\NT SPORTS EDITOR
_, The Washington and Lee men’s and women’s cross
;’r3;ountry teams had a busy weekend, sending their teams
it two different meets.
, On Friday, the Generals competed in Charlotte, N.C.,
at the Great American Cross Country Festival. With the
Eﬁeld consisting almost entirely of Division I runners, the
‘men’s team ﬁnished 10th out of 14 teams, while the women
{ﬁnished 17th out of 24 squads.
3. Junior Andy Schorr led the Generals with a 34th-place
ﬁnish after crossing the line in 30:04.20.
, “I think I ran a pretty good race. The course was
‘tough, especially with all the rain we’ve gotten, so the
times weren’t great,” Schorr said. “I was running ahead of
runners from Mary Washington, one of our opponents in
.1 the region. Putting it in perspective, I was very happy.”
Sophomore Steven Chambers, completing the course
-In 31:03.30, took 54th place while freshman Andrew
Johnson followed closely behind, finishing 14 seconds
ijlater to take 57th place.
In the women’s race, freshman Molly Drake ran an-
other strong race to lead the Generals. Drake ﬁnished the
' course in 22:14.50, good enough for 69th place. Senior
Burke Duncan shook off some early-season soreness to
_ ﬁnish 13 seconds behind Drake and take 81st place.
Freshman Betsy Frayer was the third W&L runner to
< dross the line, ﬁnishing in 23:02.20 and taking 100th place.
Frayer noted the team was a bit disappointed by the
weather and the Generals’ subsequent performance.
4 “I think we expected a fast course, but the weather
, hurt us,” she said. “We were a bit surprised by the course,
I but I think we reacted well. There was still room for im-
;_ provement, though.”
Frayer and the team did, however, ﬁnd encourage-
' ment with the return of Duncan.
1 “I think her presence helps. She’s a great leader and
. the freshmen look up to her,” Frayer said. “If she can stay
 healthy, we should find success at conference and
regionals.”
A On Saturday, W&L hit the road again, going to the
Roanoke Invitational in Salem, where the women placed

BY MICHAEL LEE
svorrs WRITER

Catching up with senior Stacey Kimmel can
prove to be rather difﬁcult. On Thursday after-
noon, I found her in the Science Center, pre-
senting the results of her summer geology re-
search, just a few short hours before she would
leave for the Emory Classic volleyball touma-
ment in Atlanta.

Kimmel had spent the summer surveying
and modeling the Scott Hollow Cave in Monroe
County, W. Va., with senior Noah Weber and jun-
ior Rob Burnside, on the Robert E. Lee summer
research scholarship.

Kimmel attended Alamo Heights High
School in San Antonio, where her parents, Karen
and Bob, still reside. She originally came to W&L
as a physics major, but didn’t enjoy it very much.
Her advisor suggested she try out geology, and
the rest is history. “The enviromnent here is per-
fect to study geology,” she said.

In addition to her time in the Science Cen-
ter, Kimmel has managed to remain involved
around campus. She was the member educator
at Kappa Alpha Theta sorority last year, as well
as being a dorm counselor, and is a member of
LIFE.

Perhaps her brightest star, however, shines
in the Warner Center, where she is the captain
of the volleyball team.

Kimmel is the only upperclassman on the
team this year. She has had to help ﬁll the void
left by Lindsay Ruckert’s graduation, as well as
help prepare the current sophomores to lead the
team next year. In that, she has done a superb

seventh out of 12 teams with 165 points and the men ﬁn-

ished eighth out of 12 teams with 172 points.

Senior Jen Fallon led the Generals, ﬁnishing the six-

kilometer course in 26:26 to take 22nd place.

Freshman Ashley Brown ﬁnished in 26:56 (25th place)
and junior Samantha Snabes ﬁnished in 36th place, cross-

ing the line in 27:40.

Sophomore Wes Bell led the men’s squad, taking sev-

enth place by ﬁnishing in 28:38.

“It will be a huge help when Wes gets back fully,”

ﬁeld. (File photo)

job — her teammates have nothing but praise
for her. '

“Stacey’s a very valuable asset in terms of
communication on the court,” sophomore set-
ter Jennifer Lux said.

“Stacey’s been a great captain,” sopho-
more outside hitter Emily Wolfing said. “She’s a
great person to go to both on and off the court.”

Sophomore middle blocker Quintina
Conway pointed out, “She knows everyone on
campus, and everyone knows who she is. She’s
a great leader because she knows what needs
to be done, and she motivates us.”

Kimmel spared no compliment about the
team, either. “We have an amazing team,” she
said. “There’s a tremendous amount of talent,
and they’re going to be great.”

The senior’s plans for next year are not con-
crete yet, but she has at least some ideas. “I
want to work for one or two years in the ﬁeld,
and work toward my doctorate. I’d someday like
to go into pro-bono consulting for Third World
countries.”

Perhaps the best measure of the respect
Kimmel is afforded on this campus is the num-
ber of people who stopped to talk to her in the
few minutes I was able to meet with her. Simply
sitting in the Great Hall of the Science Center, at
least a dozen professors and students stopped
to compliment her on the presentation, or to say
hello.

Stacey Kimmel is going to be missed when
she graduates in June. Her time as a General has
set an example for all of us, and hopefully we
can all take something from her in the year to
come.

CAPTAIN LEADS

TEAM. Seniorjen

Fallon’s time of BY JEREMY FRANKLIN

26:26 at the SPORTS EDITOR

Roanoke

Invitational on If scores from the Buck Leslie
Saturday lcd Invitational at the Lexington Golf &
Washington and Country Club on Monday and Tues-
Lee and was day are any indication, the Washing-
good enough for ton and Lee golf team is in good
22nd place shape for the next few years.
overall. The The Generals shot a 304-308-
Generals women 612 to place second behind Old Do-
ﬁnished Seventh minion Athletic Conference foe
Out Of 12 tﬂams Hampden-Sydney, which ﬁred a 306-
at the meet, while 3()2__6()8_

the men’s team But sophomores Ged Johnson
Placed eighth‘ and Carlos Spaht were the top fm-
their 12-tearn

ishers for W&L, and freshman Tom

team’s scoring. Johnson placed
fourth overall with a 76-73-149,
while Spaht tied for sixth by turning
in scores of 75-78—153.

Senior co-captains Chip
Campbell (78-77) and Chuck Green
(75-80) both shot 155 for the two-day
invitational. Borda ﬁred a 79-80-159.

Assistant coach Burr Datz was
impressed with the perfonnance of
Campbell and Green, neither of whom
played their best golf at the Buck
Leslie invite.

Borda ﬁnished ﬁfth, just out of the.

prepares to block any incoming Colonel defenders. Dean ﬁnished 7-of-18 for 126
yards and two touchdowns, while Sullivan rushed 29 times for 113 yards.

Volleyball faces tough
teams, loses 3 at Emory

FROM STAFF REPORTS

ATLANTA — The Washington
and Lee volleyball team faced some stiff
competition this weekend, dropping
three matches at the Emory Classic.

W&L (13-4) split Friday’s pair
of matches, dropping a contest to
Texas Lutheran, 30-14, 30-19, 30-21,
before bouncing back to top East
Texas Baptist, 30-26, 30-25, 30-25.

In the early loss, sophomore
outside hitter Michelle Chastain led
the Generals by registering 10 kills.
Freshman libero Christine Gladysz
totaled 16 digs, and sophomore Jen-
nifer Lux notched 27 assists.

Chastain paced the Generals in
the second match as well, posting
12 kills and 12 digs. Sophomore out-
side hitter Emily Wolfing added nine
kills and 11 digs while freshman
middle blocker Susan Gaillard
chipped in nine kills.

The Generals dropped both
matches on Saturday, as Southwest-
ern University dealt W&L a 36-34,
30- 17, 30-28 defeat. Emory, who ended
W&L’s 2001 season in the second
round of the NCAA Division IH Tour-
nament, notched a 30-27, 24-30, 30-
22, 31-29 victory over the Generals.

“They were struggling with their
swings,” Datz said. “The golf swing
is a ﬁnely tuned thing... I know that
you want to try and steer the ball,
and it’s hard to do that. For them to
come in and shoot as well as they
did, it speaks of the great character
they have.”

Datz said that the Generals were
disappointed with the result of the
invitational; they led Hampden-
Sydney by two strokes after the ﬁrst
round. But he gave credit to the Ti-
gers, led by co-medallist J.B.
Richardson’s 71-73——144.

“We know we can play better,
and just didn’t,” Datz said. “To their
credit, when the ga1ne’s on the line,
you’ve got to shoot some great num-
bers. Hampden-Sydney came
through with some great scores.”

Richardson tied for ﬁrst with
Tim Desmarais, who shot a 71-73-
144 for Roanoke. As a team, the Ma-
roons placed third with a 31 1-303-
614, also benefiting from Dusty
Throckmorton’s third—place ﬁnish at
74-74—l48.

Another ODAC school, Virginia
Wesleyan, turned in a 313—305—6l8
performance in fourth place. Chris-

In the loss to the Pirates,
Gaillard ﬁnished with 1 1 kills and four
blocks. Classmate Taylor Gibson
chipped in eight kills and ﬁve blocks
while Gladysz added 19 digs. Lux
amassed 27 assists and eight digs.

Wolfing and Chastain led the
Generals, combining for 33 kills and
36 digs. Lux totaled 47 assists.

Gaillard was the lone General to be
represented on the all-toumament team.

W&L competes at ITA

FREDERICKSBURG —— The
W&L women’s tennis team sent three
players to singles semiﬁnals and three
doubles teams to the ﬁnals at the ITA
South Regional this weekend.

Sophomore Lindsay Hagerrnan
reached the semiﬁnals of the No. 1
singles bracket, while freshman
Patty Roberts and Lisa Mabry are at
the same stage of No. 2 singles.

Hagennan and Eriko Proko ad-
vanced to the finals of the top
doubles ﬂight, while Mabry and
Roberts square off against W&L
junior Ellie Simpson and sophomore
Marie Trimble in the championship.

The Generals conclude play to-
day with all semiﬁnals and ﬁnals.

Golf places 2nd at home invite

Sophomores lead way for Generals at annual W&L Buck Leslie Invitational

topher Newport ﬁnished ﬁfth at 318-
303—62l.

Datz was also impressed with
the condition of the course at the
Lexington venue, especially consid-
ering the extended drought that has
affected the region.

“The weather couldn’t have
been better, the course is in really
ﬁne shape,” Datz said. “The super-
intendent, Randy Harris, did a great
job with the greens.

“They were as fast as I’ve seen
them in six or seven weeks,” he said.
“The course was in as good a shape
as it could be.

“There were some really good
scores, and we shot some of them.”

The ODAC season is still sev-
eral months away, but the Generals
should fare well in a conference that
features defending NCAA Division
III national champion Guilford.

“We’re deﬁnitely one of the two
top, maybe three top teams,” Datz
said. “We’re in good shape. We’ve
got a solid team.”

W&L will meet Guilford today
and tomorrow at the Tom O’Bryant
Invitational, held at The Cardinal in
Greensboro, N.C.

Schorr said. “He’s keeping up with the top pack in prac-
tice, so his ﬁtness level is definitely there.”

Junior Rusty Meyer and freshman Todd Martin fol-
lowed Bell, taking 24th and 37th with times of 30:00 and
30:55, respectively.

The men’s and women’s teams return to competition
next Saturday at the Dickinson Invitational.

“Right now, we’re right on schedule, especially with
Wes coming back,” Schorr said. “We’re on the right train-
ing schedule and we’re getting into our top physical shape.
We’re on track to be one of the top two in the confer-
ence.”

Cover W&L

Contact Sports Editor Jeremy Franklin at
fmmé/z°iy@z2//i/.ea’u or Assistant Sports Editor
David Crowell at crowe//d@u//Mada.

sports for The

Rzﬂg-mm P/92'.

 

  

l‘A(:li 0

DPORTS --

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 30, 2002

 

Generals marooed  

W&L plays well in 1-0 loss
to defending ODAC
champions on the road

BY JEREMY FRANKLIN
SPORTS EDITOR

SALEM — David Lechtrecker’s
goal off a J .M. Monger centering pass
at 9:32 of the first half was the only
scoring as Roanoke defeated Wash-
ington and Lee in men’s soccer at Eliza-
beth Campus on Saturday.

The loss dropped W&L to 1-5-1
overall, 0-3 in the Old Dorriiriion Ath-
letic Conference, while the Maroons
improved to 7-2 in their ODAC opener.

Veteran head coach Rolf Piranian
saw too many positives in his team’s
play to be too disappointed with the
loss.

“It was a very great effort on our
kids’ part,” Piranian said. “They
played hard, they played smart. They
did everything we asked them to do
but score goals. We obviously
wanted to win that game, but our kids
battled well.”

The rough start to the season for
the Generals is due in large part to so
many new faces in the lineup. W&L
has 13 freshmen on the roster this
year, and several of them see sigriiﬁ-
cant playing time.

But they’re adapting well, and
two of them in particular had big
games against the Maroons.
Midfielder Derrick Lott held
Roanoke’s Regi Francois, who en-
tered the match with seven goals in
eight games, in check, and defender
Kevin Pharris racked up good minutes
in the back third for W&L.

“We deﬁnitely outplayed them in
the back,” said senior goalkeeper Tim
Foley, who made three saves. “We had

freshmen like Kevin Phanis step up
and play a big game. Derrick con-
trolled (Francois) in the midﬁeld. So

we had a lot of younger guys step-
ping up and playing big games.”

The Generals lirriited Roanoke to
a total of 12 shots, and the Maroons
had very few good scoring chances
despite attempting 12 comer kicks.

“Their goal was the only real scor-
ing chance,” Piranian said. “I think our
defense did an excellent job.”

W&L’s best chance to tie the
game came midway through the sec-
ond half, when freshman Walker
Nickles blasted a shot that careened
off the post. Sophomore Brian Pirkle
caught the follow-through, but his
shot rolled wide of the net.

The Generals ﬁnished with seven
shots, while Roanoke goalie Chris
Ebeling recorded one save.

“We’ve got to put the ball in the
back of the net,” Piranian said. “We
created at least five outstanding
chances. A good team can bury those
chances.”

Despite the ﬁnal margin, Foley
believed that the Generals outplayed
Roanoke on the afternoon.

“Obviously you’re never satis-
ﬁed with a loss, but this is the best
we’ve played all year,” he said. “This
is a small victory for us because we
outmanned them today.

“Everyone stepped up and
played a big game. We just couldn’t
put one away.”

The loss to Roanoke followed a
3-0 defeat for W&L at the hands of
Guilford in Greensboro, N.C., on
Wednesday.

Tim Imaﬁdon scored in the 39th
minute to give the Quakers a 1-0 lead,
while Aran Haven—O’Donnell and
Ampofo Darko added second-half
scores for Guilford.

Sean Beach recorded the shut-
out by making one save, while Foley
recorded six saves in the Generals’ net.
Guilford outshot W&L 20-6.

Piranian has seen improvement
from his team in almost every game.

Goon GAME, BAD RESULT. junior midﬁelderjacob Stoehr and the Generals played
well against Roanoke, but couldn’t ﬁnd the net in a 1-0 loss.

“It’s a lousy record, but we’re
positive,” he said. “We’re still taking
shape as a team. The team’s coming
together. We’re going to win some
games.”

W&L fries Wesleyan at home

oanoke

 

C(L’lUP.\YOFSl‘OlllSlNR]lI\lAl1()l~l

W&L travels to Emory & Henry
for a 4 p.m. contest on Wednesday.
The Generals play their home opener,
an ODAC match against Randolph-
Macon, at.3 p.m. on Saturday.

Von Stemberg
and junior for-
ward Fontaine

The outcome pleased head
coach Neil Cunningham, who also

wornen’s soccer team earned a pair
of road victories this week in prepa-
ration for ﬁve straight home Old Do-
minion Athletic Conference matches
over the ﬁrst half of October.

W&L (5-1-2, 3-1-1 ODAC)
started the week with an impressive
5-0 victory over conference rival

 

CUNNINGHAM

(Randolph-Macon) is a greatly im-
provedteamfromlastyearandweweie
surprised in the beginning,” he said
“We boimoedbackreally well, though.”

Women’s soccer wins-  
pair of road matches -  

BY DAVID ckowm‘ The Generals ﬁnished the week
Asslmm SPORTS EDITOR with a 2-1 non-conference victory
at North Carolina Wesleyan on Sat-

The Washington and Lee urday afternoon.

Von Stemberg was the hero as
she tallied both of W&L’s goals to
take over the team lead in goals
(seven) and points (16) on the sell-
son. She started the scoring off an
assist from Hope at the 41 :38 mark.

The Battling Bishops fought
back in the final minutes as Canﬁl

Randolph-Macon Woman’s College Velasquez scored in the 83rd minute.
in Lynchburg on Tuesday afternoon. Von Stemberg, however, took an-
Five different Generals foundthe other feed from Hope to nailthe game-
back of the net against the Wildcats, winner past Rachael Whicker, who
with sophomore made ﬁve saves on the day for NC.
midﬁelder Rom- Wesleyan, less than two minutes later.
ney Willson For the Generals, sophomore
providing the Emily Barker played all 90 minutes
game-winner. in goal, recording one save to earn
Freshman the victory.
midﬁelder Gina The non-conference match pro-

vides Cunningham’s squad with
more experience as the women head
into the meat of their schedule, a run

Marcoux added ﬁrst-half goals as of six straight ODAC games.
W&L took a 3-0 halftime lead. Heading into these matches, the
Sophomore forward Maggie second-year coach is conﬁdent in
Hope and senior midﬁelder Jenny his team. .
Thomas added goals at the 47th and “We’d like to have the ﬁrst game
80th minutes, respectively, to pro- (a 1-0 loss to Virginia Wesleyan on
vide the final margin. Sept. 7) back, but I’m happy with
Von Stemberg, Thomas, fresh- where we’re at. We’re playing well ”
man Kerry Giblin and junior Susannah Cunningham said. “I think the other
Hewlett each added an assist. teams in the conference that are 5-0

right now haven’t played the tough-
est competition yet. This next month

was happy with his team’s resilience will be key.”

in the early going. Cunningham hopes that playing
“Looking at the‘ stats, we pretty at home for the next two weeks will

much controlled the game, but aid his team through ODAC waters.

The Generals open their
homestand on the Liberty Hall
Fields on Wednesday when they
face Emory&Henry at4p.m.

k
SCOREBOARD

BY MICHAEL LEE
SPORTS WRITER

Sunday afternoon brought the Marlins of Virginia
Wesleyan to the Alumni Field for a 1 p.m. ﬁeld hockey
match. W&L won the match with a final score of 4-1.

The first half of the match was closely played. Vir-
ginia Wesleyan managed to stay on the offensive for much
of the half, but was unable to convert their plays, scoring
only once.

W&L (3-6, 2-3 Old Dominion Athletic Conference)
answered back once, from sophomore forward Kristen
Brown, but was not able to capitalize on their seven shots
more than that once during the half. That was in large part
due to Virginia Wesleyan goalie Margie Baker, who man-
aged to guard the cage rather well throughout the half.

The second half saw more action on the ﬁeld. Ninety
seconds into the half, Brown broke away from the
Wesleyan defense and streaked toward the goal, only to
be fouled by a lone defender. The resulting penalty comer
did not yield a goal.

Ten rriinutes later, however, junior forward Kelly Taffe
scored, with an assist by Brown to give W&L the lead,
and the Generals never looked back. Junior forward Jes-
sica Lake broke away from the pack and scored unas-
sisted with l9: 12 remaining in the half to bring the score to
3-1, and Taffe scored the ﬁnal W&L goal with 40 seconds
left in the game.

A Wesleyan player did manage to shoot the ball into
the goal during the second half, but because her shot
came from outside the penalty circle, the goal was disal-
lowed. The “anti-crease” lived up to its purpose.

Freshman goalkeepers Courtney Harrison and Elise
Gelinas split the game in the net for W&L, garnering two saves,
while Wesleyan’s Baker earned eight saves for the day.

Head coach Wendy Orrison was very pleased with
her team’s performance. “We tried out a new lineup,” she
said. “We moved people around to a few different posi-
tions, and so that took some getting used to, but by the
second half, we were really able to turn it up.”

Senior captain Kathleen Gibson noted a deﬁnite dif-

T AlLlEjA.\llSON/ THE RING-‘ll .11 PH
MARLINS FILLETED. Sophomore Ali Santoro and the Generals
beat Virginia Wesleyan 4-1 at home on Sunday.

ference in the team. “We’ve been working hard, but we’ve
hadisome very tough games,” Gibson said. “We managed
to learn something from each one, though, and we brought
that out today. We played with more attitude today, and
that helped a lot.”

The win over Virginia Wesleyan followed a pair of
tough road ODAC losses for the Generals. W&L dropped
a 2-1 overtime contest to Roanoke on Wednesday and
then lost to conference powerhouse Eastern Mennonite
3-0 on Friday.

The Generals return to the ﬁeld on Wednesday with
an away game at Bridgewater, and they return home on
Friday for a 4 p.m. Homecoming game against Catawba.

Caowaoldﬂ @060/one 617//tor!/y

Fine Chocolate Confections

Downtown Lexington

www.cocoamill.com
115 West Nelson Street - 540-464-8400

Mail Order Anywhere

Tiurlay-'l'hrday .......-.im..-.-mp.
 .... ..ll:Ih.-.-ltrﬂpn.

 

SATUFtDAY’S FOOTBALLYARDLINE

Invitational

Monday, Sept. 30
Women’s Tennis
W&L at Rolex Regional

Second Quarter
CC — Walker 5 pass from Behrendl (Bitch kick), 12:05
CC — Zillch 32 FG, 0:25
Third Quarter

W&L —- Callaham 11 pass from Dean (Whitﬁeld kick), 8:55 Tournament
CC —- Zilich 24 FG, 4:19
Fourth Quarter Tmm’ 0“ 1
Volleyball

CC —- Zillch 42 FG, 14:55
CC — Zillch 24 FG, 9:45

W&L — Callaham 35 pass from Dean (kick tailed), 4:28 Wedlle8d8Y, 001- 2

RECE|VlNG—Washington and Lee: Callaham 4-67, Brimer 1-
28, Thomas 1-25, Caramore 1-6. Centre: Engleman 6-66, Schneider
5-65, Woodall 4-38, Britt 4-31, Crowley 4-19, Walker 2-42, Santos
2-17, Beinkampen 1-5, Smith 1-4.

lNTEFlCEPTlONS—Washingion and Lee: Matlitt 1-0.

Centre 19, W&L 13

centre 19, Washington and Lee 13 sept 3o.o¢t_ 1
Washington and Lee 0 0 7 6-13 eon
Centre 0 10 3 6-19 W&L at GuiltordlTom O’Bryant

Sweet Briar at W&L, 6:30 p.m.

Randolph-Macon 26, Catholic 18
Davidson 44, Emory & Henry 7
Bridgewater 25, Christopher Newport 6
Hampden-Sydney 38, Guilford 0

Friday,  4
Field Hockey
Catawba at W&L, 4 p.m.

Oct. 5-7

W&L at lTA Rolex Southeast Regional t

Saturday, Oct. 5
Cross Country

W&L SPORTS SCHEDULE: SEPT. 30-OCT. 6 ,,

W&L at Dickinson Invitational

Volleyball

W&L at Goucher Invitational
Women’s Soccer

Guilford at W&L, 11 a.m.
Football

Randolph-Macon at W&L, 1:

Field Hockey M , S
W&L Cc W&L at Bridgewater, 4 p.m. R::d;ph?§‘:::)n at W&L 3
First downs 12 20 "°"'3 S°°°°' ’
Rushes-yards 42-114 31-90 W&L 3‘ f5"'°'Y 3* ”°"'Y- 4 P-"L Sunday, Oct. 5
Passing yards 126 287 w°m°" 3 s°°°°' “""""9 _ ,
Return yards 126 66 Emory & Henry at W&L, 4 p.m. W&L at Radlord invitational
Comp-Alt-lnt 7-18-0 29-41-1
Sacked-Yards lost no 2-12  FOOTBALL GLANCE
Punls 7—35.6 4-41.3
Fumbles-lost 4-3 3-2 094° °Ve'="
Penalties-yards 2-10 8-38 Team W L W L PF
Time of Possession 27:59 32:01 Hampden-Sydney 1 0 3 0 126
Randolph-Macon 1 0 3 1 79
INDIVIDUAL STATISTICS , ‘”F5"‘"9‘°" 5"“ Le“ ‘ ° 1 2 55
RUSHlNG—Washington and Lee: Sullivan 29-113, Caramore Bmgewater 0 0 4 0 138
5-20, Diverio 1-3, Dean ere), Brimer 1-(-14). Centre: Engleman e E"‘°'V_“ ”°"'V ° ° 2 2 6°
54, Beinkampen esa, Britt 3-1o, Berhendt 3-(-12). °“$°r';° ° ; 3 3 
PASSlNG—Washinglon and Lee: Dean 7-18-0-126. Centre: Gm ° 0
Behrendl 29-41-1-287. Sept. 28 Resuﬂs Oct. 5 schedule

Hampden-Sydney at Bridgewater

LaSa||e at Catholic
Greensboro at Guilford
Randolph-Macon at

30 p.m.

p.m.

K1050)
G\l(D

32
103
95
131

W&L

For sports, news and scores from W&L athletics, visit the official Web site at
http://athlet1'cs.wlu.edu or call the Generals Sports Hotline at (540) 458-8998.

r.-‘,.«r_I.-i[.- 1.'l_- n.»;I,.-I .-I, -1;. ‘r.*'_I.   ,. 

 
 

 

/-\r“cl‘t
-f’-”l’8.’i5S
(Q5552

 
 
   

3.‘

 

BY MATTHEW McDERM0rr
EDIT0R IN CHIEF

Construction of the proposed Wilson Center for Per-
Iforming Arts has been put on indeﬁnite hold, University
administrators announced at today’s faculty meeting.
The decision “has to do with the economic climate,”
Provost Laurent Boetsch said. “The University needs an-
other $25 million to complete the (For the Rising Genera-
ition Capital) Campaign.”
Boetsch and President Thomas Burish met with mem-
bers of art and music departments last Thursday.
“(Burish) was very descriptive and took us through

WASHINGTON AND i

NG-TUM

;EE UNIVERSITY

VOLUME CV, N0.X
MONDAY, OCTOBER 7, 2002

: :»\.'‘.'v~:nﬂl'‘ ,,,., d 4,“, -U.‘-_.“v-,,3,,!‘..é :- 4.

Tire rtiillelit wire of Writ/iingloii and lie Uiiiierrih since 7897 (D Olililii at: ])lii.u/lii.eilii

:Funding problems put brakes on Wilson Center

Kolman said. “It was a perfect economic argument: col-
leges throughout the country are feeling the pinch.”
The proposed building would cost between $20 and $24
million, according to information released in July by Univer-
sity Architect Tom Contos. Among other amenities, the build-
ing would contain practice rooms and a performance center.
Although concerned faculty members understood the
economic rationale, several expressed disappointment.
“I was broken—hearted,” Music Professor Barry Kolman
said. “We worked on the plans for over ﬁve years. We
wanted to get it right. We were ready to move in in 2005.”
“We were clearly a little disappointed,” said Music
Professor Timothy Gaylard, who said he felt most sorry

“The students need a state-of—the art, high-quality
building,” Kolman agreed.

“DuPont facilities are not really adequate,”
said senior theater major Neal Willetts, who claims
that the Lenfest Center was not speciﬁcally built
for musical performances.

Fitting two departments into one build-
ing has its price, he said. Johnson Theater,
for instance, is off—limits during Spring Term
because of senior recitals.

“Lenfest has fantastic facilities for the-
ater, just not music. A lot of time is lost when
the auditoriums have to be converted from one to

 

KOLMAN

Further, “members of choral groups have trouble
hearing each other on (Lenfest’s) stage,” Gayland said.

As a consequence, he said, “Choral groups
often perform at the Science Center. The acous-
tics are better there.”

Administrators stress, however, that ground
for the Wilson Center will eventually be broken,
though no firm date can be given.

“It’s not a cancellation, just a delay,”
Boetsch said. “The building is going to be built.”

John Wilson, for whom the proposed
building is named, was W&L’s 22nd president.
He presided over the Fraternity Renaissance and the in-

 

lthe decision step-by—step,” Music Professor Barry for the students. the other.”

 
 
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
  
  
   
  

1.‘.
,.
BY ANDREW LATIMER
NEWS EDIT0R
!

Five-Star Generals and recent
graduates alike ﬂocked to Lexington
this weekend for Washington and
Lee’s Homecoming festivities.

The alumni returned to a much-
changed campus, especially at the
construction site of the University
Commons, the renovated Reid Hall
and new fitness facilities.

But some things never
change, such as the tradi-
tional crowning of the
Homecoming Queen
during halftime at

Saturday’s football

game. This year’s
winner was senior

Kathleen Gibson,

escorted by Grant

Dragan. (See pages

5-6 for pictures and

moreinfonnation.)

Alumni had a

wide variety of activi-
ties to choose from, in-

cluding five sporting
events, numerous open
house tours and an address by
Thomas Wolfe ’51. (See article be-

‘V in BRooI<s/TbeRin,g-t1iPbi
NUMBER ONE. Junior Andrew Cox (above) gets caught up in the page 7. 171581‘. Faculty, students and alumni gather on the
weekend’s festivities as the Generals football team rolls on to a 7-3 law school ﬁelds before the game to enjoy campus—catered
victory over Randolph-Macon. For complete football coverage see food. For more Homecoming coverage, see pages 5 and 6.

"New organizations

BY KATIE HOWELL

troduction of co—education.

Homecoming
weekend celebrated

Alumni, students gather for concert sports and speakers

low.)

The SAB hosted a well—attended
concert with Bruce Homsby on Friday
at the Activities Pavilion.

Campus organizations had to
plan well in advance for the inﬂux
of visitors. Dining Services had to
prepare nearly 1,500 meals for lunch
on Saturday. Campus Security
stepped—up the number of guards
on-duty to handle Friday’s concert
and traffic. No major incidents involv-
ing alumni or students were reported
as of press time.

Five-Star Generals, or those
who graduated 50 or more years ago,
had a chance to meet Washington
and Lee’s 24”‘ President, Thomas
Burish, and his wife Pamela during
Friday’s Lee House reception.

Following the reception, the
Five-Star General’s Banquet in
Evans Dining Hall posthumously
honored the contributions of Dis-
tinguished Alumni Award recipients
Frederick Pitzer ’42 and Robert
Walker ’42.

Alumni will return to campus
again on May 1 for Reunion Week-
end, which will feature events for the
undergraduate and law school
classes of 1953, 1958, 1963, 1968,
1973,1978,1983,1988, 1993 and 1998.

State maintains funds for city park

.ﬁght for smaller budget

While many state funds dry up, Lexing- Highway 11 bridge north of Lexington. It is on a
2 E t‘ C ‘u  t‘ ton has received money to continue devel— nine-acre island and peninsula formed by the
       oping Jordan’s Point Park, one of few natu- Maury River,Woods Creekandanoldmillraoe.
K . al "dth'1i't. Th k tlh"bl,
Analysis of budget changes 1 or clubs between 2001 and 2002 ' ”I:a:;’{;‘S:p,e‘;’;Zm:“S;,eDep, 1,, cm 1au:c‘,’1:ISa§§:’V°“,] .yg,aS.,p‘?$:S‘,:,E°;an°f:‘V‘.’ﬂ‘i
I . I I I of Game and Inland Fisheries agreed to grant provide larger boat launches and a place for
Great Percentage Gams G Pm C elnage the City up to $100,000 to build boat ramps cars and trailers to park outside the natural area
ORC’NZ’"7°‘V % “A7” “A1” OR“’WZ"T’°‘\l mo” “O” at Jordan’s Point. “Neither will interfere with the trails or
7 50009’ 1»025°/° $515 P0WCa/ H9V/9W (77%) ($515) “A lot of state grant funds have natural setting currently present in the
Travellep 426% $8,100 Women's Forum (42%) ($1,700) dried up,” Said Joan Neel Pmgram,S Ad_ park ,, Neel said
Ultimate Frisbee 200% $200 Nabors League (39%) ($5500) ministrator for the City’ of Lexington The city has been developing the park
Vl/.I.7'.S. 180% $900 The Ring-tum Phi (33%) ($1,500) ,, . . . . ' . . . . .
Club Softball 126% $195 Java at the GHQ (25%) ($2,000) But we did apply, and we did get it. This in various stages since 1997, Neel said. Prior
“T Habitat For Humanity 100% $1,000 Student Activity Board (17%) ($14,707) .
Rugby 70% $975 Contact (12%) ($6,000)  l U 
PRIDE 47% $700 Club Lax (M) (10%) ($150)
W&L Cheerleading 39% $337 Film Society (1.5%) ($100) I I
‘ * compared to previous system, Live Drive n  S e  n   
Total change in allocations: $15,498.28 less than 2001, a 4.2 percent difference.
Organization that received funding last year and did not in 2002: The Calyx BY Mm" MCDERMOTT
A EDITOR IN CHIEF
" Organzations that received no funding last year and did this year: Club Lacrosse (W), , _ “
Club Volleyball, Cycling Club, Fencing, FLC, Ice Hockey, Interfaith Dialogue, Journal Natlonany renowned 3“th°rT°mW°]f° explalnefl e‘'‘
or Science, KEWL, Law Speakers Guild, Liberty Hall Volunteers, LIFE, Men’s erythmg you need to know about the 21st century” In the
Philanthrophy, Mock Convention, Order of Omega, SAIL, Southern Comfort, Squash, first lecture of The Thomas K. Wolfe Jr. Distinguished
‘‘ Theatre Outreach, Transatlantic Society, W&L Dance, Women’s Philanthropy. Lecture Series.
' Total funding: 10.5% of total allocations, or $36,966 “The Gifts committee had a Short meeting to decide
_ g p p the first recipient of (the lecture series),” said Acting Dean
Chart by Andrew Lutimer, data provided by the Executive Committee. of the College Thomas Winialns, who introduced its “in_
spired choice,” Wolfe.
Q . , The lecture series is supported by an endow-
FROM STAFF REPORTS Collvenuoln a? 07mdn?tmfcwme’ the alter‘ ment designed to be self-sustaining after $1 million
mung cyc 60 g ‘Sm ‘ is raised for it. Funded principally by the Washing-

The picture of the Executive Comrriittee’s ‘

budget allocations became clearer this week

W as The Ring-tum Phi had time to sort through

1‘.

thepdata released last week.
A comparision with last year’s budget re-
vealed 22 organizations that received funding

,this year and had not in 2001. In all, 49 clubs
‘ shared the funding.

Somenewgroups,suchastlieOrderofOmega,
Men’s and Wornen’s Philanthropy organizations
wereaddedtothelistfor2002.Forothers1ikeMock

The SAB took the largest single funding
hit, which totalled over $14,000. Contact, an-
other major recipient of Excecutive Committee
funds, will work with a 12 percent smaller bud-
get for 2002-2003.

The biggest newcomer to the list is Traveller,
the revamped sober ride system for students.

Overall, the Executive Committee allocated
$350,774, representing a 4.2 percent drop from
last year. This cut continues the budget’s slide
from a high $389,639 in 2000-2001.

EDITOR IN CHIEF

is a wonderful opportunity to develop
the natural area.”
Jordan’s Point is located beneath the new

to that, a wastewater treatment plant occu-
pied half the island. When the city decided
to move that facility out of the ﬂood zone in
1997, it chose to develop the park as a natu-
ral area rather than an industrial or commer-
cial one.

“(A natural area) is what the community
wishes and desires, plus, the area is in a ﬂood
zone, so a natural park is the best solution
for land use there,” Neel said.

The addition of trails and picnic areas was 1

the ﬁrst step of the development. Neel said that
the boat ramps will be second, accompanied
by simultaneous historical development.

See JORDAN, page 2

ton and Lee Class of 1951, its contributors are former
classmates who remember Wolfe’s undergraduate
years.
“He was knownas ‘T.K.’ by us,”Tom Courtney ’51 said.
The series will bring speakers of international prominence
to W&L, Williarns said. According to the university’s news

See WOLFE, page 2

To get a students perspective on “hooking up, ” see Timothy
Smith is in-depth article on page 5.

]EBBR<)ois Tlie rig-rim; Jl

WOLFE, IN WHITE CLOTHING. Renowned author Tom Wolfe spoke to a ﬁlled Lee Chapel
Saturday morning. Students, faculty, alumni and visitors all attended the speech.

 

 

 

PAGE 2

 

A notice from

The Executive Committee
of THE STUDENT BODY

Gerald M. Titus, III
President

Kempton W. Presley
Vice President

Helen B. Hughes
Secretary

October I, 2002

A member of the Student Body
withdrew after being charged
with the possible Honor
Violation of misrepresenting
himself/herself by using a fake
I.D. to purchase alcohol in a
local retail store. The student
chose not to have a closed
Executive Committee Hearing.

Corrections

In the Sept. 30 edition of
The Ring-tum Phi, in the ar-
ticle titled, “Freshman drink-
ing rises dramatically,” Dr.
Jane Horton was reported as
saying, “W&L has a drinking
tradition which cannot be
stopped.” Horton was mis-
quoted. She did not make that
statement. In the first para-
graph of the same article, the
text should have read, “Stu-
dent infirmary visits are at an
all-time high for the month of
September,” instead of “Stu-
dent drinking rates are at an
all-time high for the month of
September.”

Part-Time

Retail Assistant.

Hard-Working, Friendly,
Strong Work Ethics. Apply at

The Victorian Parlour,

23 South Main St.,

Lexington
540-464-8888

MSA builds on strong EC support

BY DREW DAVENPORT
STAFF WRITER

During its apportionment proceedings
in September, the Executive Committee (EC)
allotted $14,500 to the Minority Student
Assocation (MSA), more than any other
campus organization except the Student
Activities Board, Student Bar Assocation,
Contact and Mock Convention.

“The whole organization is glad to
have support from the EC,” MSA Vice-
President sophomore Kaela Harmon
said. “It shows that we are getting more
validity on this campus.”

The $14,500 marks an increase from the
$14,000 MSA received last year from the EC.

“It gives them (MSA) a great opportu-
nity to do programming that is void heie,”As-
sociate Dean of Students Courtney Penn said
"Iherecannowbeeducationa1andsocialpro-
gramming that fulﬁlls (the void) positively.”

\lV1th the funding, the MSA hopes to di-

versify their programming and membership,
MSA President senior Meredith King said.

“One of our initiatives is to diversify,”
King said. “We want to represent all people
of color on the campus.”

In a show of broadening diversity, MSA
sponsored the Hispanic Heritage lecture last
Thursday featuring syndicated Dallas
Morning News columnist Ruben Navarette.

“MSA is going to have diverse pro-
grairnning to represent all American ethnic
backgrounds,” Dean Penn said.

DeanPennis aforn1ertreasurerofW&L’s
MSA,,which has been traditionally viewed
as a black student organization, he said.

MSA was fomied at W&L in 1985, but
struggled with its identity and became known
as the Black Student Union. The name changed
back to MSA in the late 1990’s and MSA has
strived to reach out to minority groups other
than blacks since then, Dean Penn said

MSA already has two non-black mi-
nority members this year, Harmon said.

MSA organizes a number of events
throughout the year. Their largest event, which
will be held in February, is the Jazz Cabaret.

Started by Dean Penn in 1999, Jazz
Cabaret is a serni—formal jazz event attended
by invited members of the faculty, admin-
istration and student—body. Last year it
took place at the Col Alto; but this year
with the extra funding MSA hopes to move
it to a larger venue, Harmon said.

The MSA sponsors other events in-
cluding a Parents Weekend dinner, a vari-
ety of activities during Black History Month
(February) and hosting various speakers
throughout the year. MSAhas brought sev-
eral speakers to W&L such as Congress-
man John Lewis, actress Yolanda King and
poet Maya Angelou. They also assist other
campus organizations such as PRIDE and
the Gospel Choir, King said.

“We help all organizations with the
purpose of supporting the community at
large,” Harmon said.

Famed author addresses community

WOLFE, from page 1

website,speakerswiIlwcnkwithW&Lun-
dergraduates and law students and meet
with “the broad University oornmunity.”
Wolfe gave his Lee Chapel address two
hours before Sat11rday’s Homecoming
Gare.

“I want to talk about the Spirit
of the Age,” Wolfe said. “(It is) the
moral tone which bears down on ev-
eryone living under it.”

Invoking Freud, Marx, and modem
neuroscience, Wolfe c1aimedthat“many
educated people no longer have a belief
in God,” inspired instead by detenninis-
tic interpretations of human behavior.

Wolfe used students’ sexual mo-
res, which he observed on a coast-
to-coast research jaunt, as an example
of the recent dehumanization.

“Does anyone remember the
word ‘date,”’ he asked, claiming the
institution had been superceded by
the “seven-minute seduction,”
where strangers “hook-up” after an
only precursory acquaintanceship.

“It used to be that first base was
kissing, second base was deep kiss-
ing and groping, third base was oral
sex and fourth base was ‘going all
the way,”’ Wolfe said.

 

 

Kappa   oamma

congratafates  Ho 4

“Now first base is deep kissing
and groping, second base is oral sex,
third base is ‘going all the way’ and
fourth base is learning the other
person’s name.”

Wolfe began his career as a re-
porter for Massachusetts’s Spring-
field Union, later becoming The
Wa s hi n g t o n
Post’s Latin
American corre-
s p o n d e n t .
After writing for
The New York
Herald Tribune
and New York
magazine in
1962, Wolfe
compiled an an-
thology of ar-
ticles into the best-selling “The
Kandy-Kolored Tangerine-Flake
Streamline Baby.”

Wolfe also wrote “The Painted
Wo1d,”"IheBonﬁre oftheVanities,”“A
Man in Full” and “Hooking Up,” pub-
lisl1edir12(IX)byFairar,Str‘a1isanclGiroux.
According to the W&L homepage,
Wolfe was “a leading ﬁgure in what be-
came known as ‘New Journalism,’ and
coined t.’r1e phrases “the right stuff,” “the
Me Decade” and'“radical chic.” 4

WOLFE (’48)

 

 

    
 

 

    

Park plans
left unscathed

JORDAN, from page 1

Historical development plans include creating a
transportation museum in the restored Miller House,
located within the park boundaries and building the
area to look as it did in Lexington’s beginnings.

Lexington City Manager Jon Ellestad said that
the area was the original historic hub for the city.
He said a gristmill and tannery operated in the
present park during the 1700s and 1800s.

“Jordan’s Point was a major commerce area,”
said Alice Wﬂliarns, co—chairman of the J ordan’s Point
Development Committee. “Now, it’s just all washed
away.”

Williams said the committee has been working
on a historical study of the area for four or ﬁve
years. Using old photographs and written accounts,
they have determined the locations of the pre-exist-
ing buildings and plan to rebuild them or note their
location within the park.

“Our architect (Carlton Abbot) wouldn’t let us
put anything in the waterway because of the threat
of ﬂooding,” Williams said. “So, we’re just going to
put up base forms or markers for the buildings in
those locations.”

Williams said money for the historical de-
velopment of the park is coming from two sepa-
rate Virginia Department of Transportation
grants.

“There has always been a boom of trans-
portation in the area,” Williams said. “Not
only were there Indian canoes traveling
through the waterways, but there were also
canal boats and later trains. Now there are
trucks and cars crossing the bridge.”

The park development committee also plans to
restore the lookout near the old covered bridge in
the park and build a low walkway over the waterway
to connect the Wood’s Creek trails with the Maury
River Chessie Trail.

“All communities are rapidly using their natu-
ral assets,” Neel said. “Eventually we are going to
rebuild the pedestrian bridge.”

According to the City of Lexington Web site,
the park was also recently designated a point on
Virginia’s Civil War Trails Program as the area where
Union General Hunter crossed into Lexington after
defeating it in 1864.

City officials are pleased with the new
plans for the area.

“This is one of the few natural areas left
in this urban setting that is pretty densely-
packed commercially and residentially,” said
Neel.

MONDAY, OCTOBER 7, 2002‘

 

Counseling support group to meet
for women in recovery from sexual assault

A conﬁdential support grou p sponsored by the Univer-
;..y Counseling Service is meeting weekly for Washington
and Lee women who have experienced sexual/abuse, includ-
ing severe sexual harassment, at any time in their lives. Each
member will sign an agreement of conﬁdentiality at the first
meeting. Please call Carol Calkins, the Counseling Service
secretary, at ext. 8590 or the Health Service at ext. 8401 to
learn of the time and location.

Traveller ride system continues service

Traveller is used as both a sober drive system and as a
campus bus route. It stops at several locations throughout
town and the east Lexington area. Two vans, driven by hired
assistant coaches, circle the route between the hours of 10
p.m. and 2 a.m. every night of the week. There is a dispatch
number, 458-8900, that students living beyond this route or
those wishing to travel beyond the ﬁxed route can call on it
Wednesday, Fridays and Saturdays.

Women to discuss publications

Women’s Forum is hosting the first of several commu-
nity discussions Tuesday night. All women faculty, staff and
students are invited to attend the open discussion on the
portrayal of women in W&L student publications. The dis-
cussion will be held at 8 p.m., Oct. 8 in Fairfax Lounge. ,,

Yale professor speaks about gun control

in annual Tucker lecture

Washington and Lee University’s armual John Randolph
Tucker Lecture featured legal scholar Dan M. Kahan dis-
cussing gun control on Friday at 12:10 p.m. in the Moot Court-
room at W&L’s School of Law.

Kahan’s address, which wasopen to the public, was titled
“What is the American Gun Debate About?” Kahan teaches
constitutional law, criminal justice and evidence at Yale
University’s law school. He has written on criminal law for
the Harvard, Georgetown and Columbia law reviews, as well ,.(
as for The Wall Street Journal and The Washington Post.

A magna cum laude graduate of Harvard Law School,
Kahan was president of the Harvard Law Review and later
clerked for Judge Harry T. Edwards of the U.S. Court of Ap-
peals for the Washington, D.C. Circuit and for then Associ- '
ate Justice Thurgood Marshall of the U.S. Supreme Court.

The Tucker lecture series was established by the W&L
Board of Trustees in 1949 to honor Tucker’s work as a W&L
law professor, the first dean of the W&L School of Law, a ’/
former president of the American Bar Association and as a
member of Congress. A

Past lecturers include notable judges, academics and
members of the American Bar.

Museum to commemorate day of Lee’s death '

Oct. 12 marks the 132nd anniversary of the death of
Gen. Robert E. Lee, 11th president of Washington College
and one of the namesakes of Washington and Lee Univer-
sity. To commemorate this occasion, the University’s Lee
Chapel and Museum will host a two—day program, “Remem—
bering Robert E. Lee.” William C. Davis is the featured guest
speaker. .

On Friday, Oct. 11, at 7 p.m., Davis will present a lecture
entitled “Lee and (Jefferson) Davis -True Partners in Com-
mand” in W&L’s Lee Chapel.

The annual Lee Memorial Service will be held at 1 l a.m. on

.9

Saturday, Oct. 12. Davis will speak on “Lee and Defeat as the '

Measure of Character” Music will be perfonned by Tim Gaylard,
organist, and Chris Magee, trumpeter, both music professors
at W&L. Dr. Thomas V. Litzenburg, director of the Reeves

Center at W&L, will preside. ,,

The public is invited to attend and there is no admission.
The Lee Chapel Museum will open Friday evening at 6
p.m. for the convenience of the audience.

Campus News Services and Sreya Banerjee contributed
to this General Notes report.

BEST BET IN LEXINGTON

<3

itMRLENE'S  TYLIST
REDKEN AMBASSADOR SALON
25 N. MAIN STREET

S40-463-6003
CERTIFIED SPECIALISTS
IN DESIGN & COLOR

MONDAY -FRIDAY 9:00-5:00

SATURDAY 9:00-2:00

LATE APPOINTMENTS
AVAILABLE UPON REQUEST

WALK-INS WELCOME
WAXING, PEDICURES,MANICU1?.ESr-.

Q2/633/(E)x9

 

Come Celebrate Our Q3ooK5igning:
W&L }7l[amnas

ﬂlnroxew 91 0LLI9\[(j££&

LEX,

Reminiscences of a Late 605 College Student

Saturday, Oct. 12

11:00 a.m. - 1:00 p.m. ’

 

Signed Cy Twombly and
 Sally Mann Books (of Art and Photography)

‘Zhe $00/{em .

107 W. Nelson St.
464-3377 or

bookery@rockbridge.net

Open 9:00 a.m. every day

l

 

  

“_IMRANNiEEMUuAH

OPINIONS EDHOR

‘I
‘ha.

a:_F1nAr;MtEiaMirLtiii@ivruE1)U
.;§:MoNnAY, OCTOBER 7, 2002

."7“\ﬁ‘-(.‘é'?‘* .9-".\';’al

Siiiiiiiiiipﬁuironnr
Banerdow nothave a toning brother-it-law

Too often, students take University
Security for granted, only recognizing its
existence when it comes between them and
an out-of-bounds parking spot or an out-of-
control party.

This antagonism is largely groundless.
Security officers have no arrest powers,
so it’s not as if we often see them slamming
a student against Newcomb Hall to frisk
him.

And University Security does not
operate in New Orleans or New York,
where campus police must interpose
themselves between students and rampaging
legions of muggers, arsonists and litterers.
Who remembers the Red Square Strangler
these days?

No, by and large, Security protects us from
ourselves.

Security is a buffer between the student
body and Lexington’s Finest. Few can count
the number of fights broken up or drunks
shepherded to their rooms. Without our often
overlooked officers, many W&L students
would be sporting DUl’s and MIP’s on their
resumes.

Yet these officers are taken for
granted.

Security does little things, like making sure
VMI joggers don’t cut through President
Burish’s inauguration.

It also does larger things, like driving girls
to their Woods Creek apartments at night.

How many officers do students regularly
greet by name?

Not enough. This is a shame, since many
ofﬁcers have interesting pasts. One member of
Security worked for the mil’tary police in
Vietnam, another danced competitively. From the
13 full-time individuals who work security (with,
we’re assured, over 150 years of combined
experience), we select a representational few
that students should applaud.

For example, Sergeants Larry Stuart and
Melvin Davis not only supervise shifts but
also teach W&L women a self-defense

‘course.

And Sergeant Thomas “B aner” Bane,
traffic supervisor, does not have a brother-in-
law who owns an impound lot. Baner does not
receive kickbacks for every irnproperly-parked
vehicle. When that Explorer gets towed, all he
has is the satisfaction of a job well done.

Mr. Young, Director of Security, belies his
gruff exterior with acts of grandmotherly
kindness. Few people who talk to him can walk
away unconvinced of his golden heart.

Mr. Tornlinson, Mr. Young’s number two,
is the only security officer regularly seen with
a tie. He adds a touch of class to the
organization.

So have a little respect for the men and
women who protect us and our campus from
difficulties we often create for ourselves.

‘.‘.'x.'i::'.t.T:i~. -

Editors in chief Katie]. Howell
Matthew B. McDemiott
News Editor Andrew Lalimer
Opinions Editor ImranNaeemullah
Arts & Life Editor Catherine C. Guy
Sports Editor Jeremy Franklin
Asst. Sports Editor Dave Crowell
Photo Editor Jeb Brooks
Photographers McQueen Calvert
Tallie Jamison
Barrett Daws
Business Manager Paul Seifert
Asst. Business Manager Thomas Worthy
Circulation Director HenryGrimball

  

THE

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee Univer-
sity, Lexington, Virginia. The Washington and Lee Publi-
cations Board elects the Editors in chief, but The Ring-
tum Phi is otherwise independent.

The Ring—tum Phi welcomes all responsible submis-
sions and letters. All submissions must be e-mailed to
phi@wlu.edu or in the University Center mailbox by 5
p.m. Friday to appear in the following week’s edition. The
Ring-tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for con-
tent and length. Letters and columns do not necessarily
reﬂect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Ad-
vertising does not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi
or its staff. This newspaper observes current court deﬁni-
tions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Mailing Address: University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Street Address: 31 Washington Street
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Fax: (540) 462-4059
Email: phi@wlu.edu
http‘://phi.wlu.edu

THE RlNC}~TUM PHI

PINIONS

PAGE 3

WAR: THE UNITED STA'iEs VERSUS lRAQ—

With both the Senate and the House of Representatives set to vote on a resolution supporting war on Iraq, the nation is at a crossroads. Do
we invade Iraq pre—emptively, thus stopping Saddam Hussein from potentially developing further weapons of mass destruction? Do we
resort to diplomacy and weapon inspections, and run the risk of appeasing a dictator? The Ring—tum Phi felt it appropriate to open a forum
for varying opinions on this important national issue. We encourage the W&L community to continue further debate on this issue.

Shortest path to peace: make war with Iraq

When Caesar conquered Gaul, and
eliminated the Nervii and Helvetii west
of the Rhine, the defeated peoples made
no move to cross the river again for
one hundred years. Caesar had no real
mandate to do anything but defend his
assigned post, when he took command
of Rome’s section of Southern France in
59 BC. The next year, he more or less
decided to conquer all of Gaul and
embarked on a six—year campaign against
the Gauls and the Germans whojcame

across the Rhine in a combination

migration/attack. In 53 B.C., just when
it seemed that Caesar had subdued the
whole country, the Gauls rose in
rebellion under Vercingetorix, and it
took another two years
of fighting and the
famous encirclement
siege of Alesia for the
Roman Legions to triumph.

My ‘point (I do have one) is that
although Caesar’s conquests don’t
appear to be much more than personal
aggrandizement, their aftereffects are
amazing. Gaul became one of the most
stable, Romanized parts of the Empire,
and was more or less peaceful for a
couple of centuries. Caesar and other
Roman generals always seemed to feel
the need for a buffer zone, and kept on
pushing the boundaries of Roman
civilization outward, one adjacent
kingdom at a time.

Now, compare this blatant imperialism
of the past to the role of the United
States in the early 21st century. Our
generals are not in a position to take
power over the country through victory
in battle. Our president and his closest
advisers, who had to divest themselves
of virtually all investments, stand to
gain nothing from any of our imperial
ventures. I’m not, by the way, referring
to a possible American invasion of
France. '

What I’m talking about is Iraq.
Here’s the plan: quick, brutal war to
suppress Saddam and his minions.
Machiavelli would agree with me, and
so would Martin Luther. Both wrote
that when you can’t avoid war, you

BEMUSED BYSTANDER even take control of
WILLIAM Fox ‘05

must wage it with the utmost ferocity
until your enemy is defeated, and
then enjoy the peace that decisive
action has given you. Let’s face it,
doves, putting off the removal of
Saddam Hussein is like saying “let’s
give Hitler another six months and
perhaps he won’t annex anything
else.” I’m going to go with Luther on
the second phase of war, though.
Instead of killing everyone in a
position to oppose us in Iraq, as
Machiavelli would perhaps advise, I
suggest that after the surrender of the
Iraqi hordes, we show the utmost
charity and mercy, as we have in the
past. It’s almost a reverse ‘mouse that

roared.’ Hell, we can

Iraqi customs and pay
ourselves by selling
their oil for a couple of years to cover
some of the costs of the inevitable
occupation, just like the bad old days
of American Imperialism in Central
America and the Caribbean.

Can Iraq become a bastion of
democracy in the Middle East sans
Saddam? Maybe. It’s worth a try, at
least, and I’m sure none of us want to
read in the morning papers 10 years
from now that the Iraqi President has
placed ten nuclear bombs in 10
American cities by clever use of the
diplomatic pouch. Iraq has a lot going
for it if you remove Hussein and his
Ba’ath cronies. It has one of the most
highly developed infrastructures,
plenty of educated people, and enough
oil to help leaven the economy,
without being the only source of
revenue. Of course, it also has a
Kurdish minority in the semi-
independent North, and unhappy
Shiites in the South. I’m not saying
this is going to be a cake walk, but
perhaps the United States should try
a hand at nation-building again. I think
it’s possible that Iraq, with a minimum
of help from us and the Europeans,
could get itself back on its feet. Then
again, practically any different
government in Iraq would be preferable

United States must not engage in war

I consider myself a strong patriot, and even
in the midst of mounting criticism against
American actions here and abroad, I still feel
nothing but admiration and gratitude for

America and its citizens. A

people. Even if Hussein dies, it is not impossible
that an even worse tyrant will assume power. If
that were the case, then all of our energy and
resources would have been poorly wasted.
America has a tendency to

lot of discourse is now TRAN OF THOUGHT meddleinto the affairs ofothers.
taking Place I0 analyze I116 ._ ‘ If the Iraqi government has
United States’ plans to TRANKIM  possession of nuclear and

wage war on Iraq.

At first, I was nothing but supportive of
invading Iraq feeling hopeful that this might
destroy Saddam Hussein’s regime and end an
era of tyranny for the Iraqi people. But of
course that isn’t the only reason we want to
wage war; there’s also the issue of oil and

nuclear weapons.

Regardless of the reasons, though some
may be in good thought, such as saving a
group of people from destructive rule, war is

not the solution to
solving this problem. We
waged war against Iraq
before, and Hussein still
stands strong. How can
we be so sure that the
outcome will be any
different this time around?

Warfare is a
daunting task that
sacrifices many
individuals, both
physically and mentally.
Not only does it harm

our men and women, it may also hurt the
Iraqis, those people we claim to be helping
in the first place. The sanctions against Iraq
did nothing but possibly leave a small
scratch on Saddam Hussein’s government,
but for the Iraq citizens, it created
starvation, illness and poverty. The United
States government cannot be certain that
this war will not yield devastating results
for the Iraqi people who are merely innocent
civilians and responsible for Hussein’s

actions.

Yes, innocent civilians do die in warfare, and
in some cases it is justiﬁed, but in this instance, it
is not right. I believe in making sacriﬁces but not
when it yields nothing but misery. That is why
there is no justice in invading Iraq. It is uncertain
whether American intervention will help the Iraqi

My American mother

once told me that you

cannot change others;

all you can do is

change yourself and
hope that your ex-

ample will be followed

by others.

biological weapons, so be it.
Though it makes me tremble to think of a nuclear
weapon being at the hands of an unstable man
like Hussein, I cannot rightfully say that he does
not have a claim to create those weapons.

We possess them, and if we are not
willing to sacrifice ours, we have no right to
ask the same of others. It is hypocrisy to
demand of others what we, ourselves, refuse
to do. Furthermore, there is no need for us
to worry so much about the actions of other
nations. We need to
focus on our own
actions. We can use
persuasion to convince
others to follow our
beliefs, but we cannot
force them to believe our
philosophies. Expecting
this creates nothing but
u n n e c e s s a r y
frustration.

My American
mother once told me that
you cannot change
others; all you can do is change yourself and
hope that your example will be followed by
others. American foreign policy should
follow the same code of conduct. No matter
how good you are or how successful you
may be, there is always room for
improvement.

In conclusion, American needs to step
back, re-organize, and come up with a new
plan to address the problems that the Iraqi
people pose to its people and to other
nations. Somehow ending destruction with
further destruction seems to lack sense.
And I doubt Americans really want to wage
warfare. We want to solve a problem. And
as intelligent and creative as we are, I am
certain we can do better than just wage war
to resolve this issue.

to one which has stockpiled enough
Botulinum toxin to kill every human

ri)IJinEsYstiiIEiu:\t'iiL

WAR MONGERER. His claims to the contrary, Saddam Hussein has nothing but evil intentions for
the region around him. He desires an empire, and will stop at nothing to get it. The United
States needs to remove him from power, and fast, so that his nefarious plans are halted.

It’s only a matter of time until we don’t
have the luxury of options in dealing with
on earth, and keeps trying to buy Saddam, so let’s get it over with, and bring

fissionable material. peace faster.

Bush avoids economic issues

United States need not attack Iraq, War on Terrorism enough

Swamped in domestic
economic problems, President
Bush ponders whether or not to
invade another autonomous
country unprovoked. It doesn’t
take an expert to see that this is a
mistake, and will result in the loss
of thousands of our military.
Worse than this, it may result in
the loss of many lives in the
Middle East, as any invasion
would probably lead to
instability in the region.

0 n e
problem with
invading Iraq is
that a large
number of
troops would be needed,
probably in the hundreds of
thousands. Many military
experts agree that any invasion
would require a large force to
destroy the power center of Iraq.
Since most of our traditional
military forces are not used to
the kind of urban warfare which
would be critical in any invasion
of Iraq, casualties would be
high. The nature of urban
warfare dictates that casualties
are unavoidable. Also, how do
we measure whether or not
we’ve won? Is our goal to create
a new nation or to simply knock
Saddam Hussein out of power?
The president needs to decide
what our goal is, if he decides to
invade, so we do not get
ourselves into another Vietnam-
like situation.

Even if we have a goal to take
Saddam out of power, any
invasion would provide a time for
him to release any weapons he
might have. This puts Israel (as
well as other nations) at
significant danger, as Saddam
has the missile capability to

  
    

COMMON SENSE
ONATHAN WORTHAM ‘O4

reach, not only Israel, but Kuwait
and Saudi Arabia as well. If he
knew 100,000 or more troops were
headed for Baghdad, why
wouldn’t he shoot these
weapons? Invasion puts Saddam
in a situation where he has
nothing to lose. Arbitration
through the UN, with the
potential for lifting of UN
sanctions, however, puts him in
a situation where he has
everything to gain.

A ii 0 t h e r
smaller, yet
s i g n i f i c a n t
negative aspect
of invasion is the
toll it would take on the War on
Terrorism. We are also still
engaged in a very active military
campaign in Afghanistan. Basic
military principles dictate that
one should avoid war on two
fronts, if possible. If we invaded
Iraq, we would risk being
surrounded by some potentially
hostile nations and lose much of
the Arab support we managed to
rally for the War on Terrorism.
War on two fronts, especially
after the Clinton era cutbacks
could make winning very
difficult. Also, it could
potentially give the al—Qaeda
network time and/or a place to
regenerate.

Saddam Hussein is an evil
man who has oppressed his own
people for decades. However, the
United States should not be
drawn into a conflict where
victory would be extremely
difficult for only marginal
benefits. President Bush, his
cabinet, and Congress will weigh
these and other considerations
carefully. I for one hope they will
arrive at the right decision.

 

    

PAGE 4



Cell phones rude, defy Speaking Tradition

Increasing prevalence of the anti-social and distracting contraptions detract
from quality of life on campus, interrupt classes with annoying rings, meant for private use

Sure, we all had a good laugh during those Saved
By the Bell episodes when Zack Morris’ cellular phone,
a little under the size of a toaster, rang during class.
That boy had the ability to order pizzas from Principal
Belding’s office and even managed to prank call his
teachers during some mischievous shows. Zack was
quite a cool character, and his trusty cell phone never
hurt his preppy image.

While Zack’s cell phone ownership seemed to be
relatively uncommon in the early 90s, the technologi-
cal boom of the new millennium has enabled many a
W&L student to augment his own preppy image by

. toting a smaller and
' i 5,  MY NORTH FACE far more colorful cell
. Kurt COEN ‘04

phone around cam-

pus. From the C-
School to the Colonnade, and the footbridge to your
run—of—the—mill country party, I hear them ring, far more
often than our own Lee Chapel bells. I have my doubts
as to whether or not this is a good thing.

Don’t get me wrong, cell phones are a great inven-
tion. They are a safe and helpful thing to have when
driving long distances, which many W&L students
have to do, hailing from all parts of the country. Some-
times, they are cheaper than long distance calling plans,
serving as a financial advantage for keeping in touch
with family and friends. They can simply make life easier.
If Domino’s is about to close, and there is no real phone
nearby when you just need that order of cheesy bread
to make it through the night, cell phones can make it
possible, unless of course, you don’t know the num-
ber. Cellular phones are one of those neat things that
many people today can’t imagine living without. How-
ever, it is when people can literally not live without
their cell phones that this dependency causes an ex-
treme breach of public etiquette.

I can think of nothing ruder than a cell phone ring-
ing during a class. It is both an insult to the professor
as well as to the student’s peers. At a school of such a
high academic caliber, I find it pretty hard to believe
that W&L kids lack the mental capacity to read a
manual, causing them to habitually forget to turn their
cell phones off before entering a classroom. Cell phones

 

are pretty easy to operate and neglecting to turn one
off causes an unnecessary interruption that does not
make the culprit look any more important or special. It
gets worse.

While studying in the colorfully decorated aca-
demic mecca that is Leybum Library, it is extremely hard
to focuson studies when random cell phones ring and
people attempt to whisper quietly (or not so much) about
their latest drama(s). I don’t know about anyone else,
but when I talk to people on a telephone, I prefer to do
so in an environment that is not filled with people furi-
ously studying German history and physics.

Nor do I enjoy being subject to some stranger’s
verbally enunciated issues. In the midst of typing this
very article in a computer lab, the location disclosed to
protect the innocent, I just heard the person behind me
seerriingly having a one—way conversation. I turned
around, and guess what? Someone had called that per-
son on a cell phone! I’ll admit, I laughed out loud, but
in all seriousness, who at this school is so important
that they need to be able to be contacted, at all times,
even while checking their email?

For those who may have read my preceding dia-
tribe on the deficiency of our speaking tradition, cell
phones also offer an excellent way to avoid saying hello
to someone. After all, how can you be expected to
greet someone else, when you clearly are talking to
another person on a really cute phone? I recommend
cell phones for people who like to avoid speaking to
their peers because it lends a much more plausible ex-
cuse than the simple eye aversion technique demon-
strated by many a student on campus.

Just as we cannot say “time out” and freeze a
scenario in the real world as Mark-Paul Gosselaar so
often did on his early—90s teen sensation television
show, we cannot use cellular telephones to forego
social tact as a means to draw unwarranted attention
to ourselves. If you want to look cool, wear Reefs in
the winter, put ribbons in your hair, and bedeck your-
self with insanely expensive designer logos. Respect
your academic commitment to W&L’s faculty and stu-
dents and leave the public cell phone usage to scenes
from Clueless.

Bush triumphs politically with Iraq

This past week The Washington Post reported that
steps were finally taken to unify Washington on Iraqi
policy. The President has finally listened to reason. Rather
than stampeding off across the globe in our nation’s
first preemptive strike with no real
checks and agreements on the attacks
against Iraq, Bush has decided to lis-
ten to reason.

The first and most important
agreement reached by Congressional Democrats and the
Commander in Chief was lirriiting military action only to
Iraq. We all saw how difficult things were when only
dealing with Osarna Bin Laden in Afghanistan. Yes, we
are fighting a global war on terror, but we need to ensure
that the President takes on one thing at a time.

Secondly, rather than completely shirking the ad-
vice of the United Nations, Bush agreed to policy that
will encourage the use of the United Nation’s skills of
diplomacy with Iraq. I mean, let’s face it. When our Presi-
dent is comfortable throwing around the
word evil and accusing his colleagues in

LEFT OF CENTER
NICK RAMSEY ‘03

political leaders and the American public can have a little
more knowledge on about how their tax dollars are being
spent. This only seems rational, but for the past few
weeks, it has been like pulling teeth to reach an agree-
ment on this matter.

Thus, the President has done two
things. First, he has made the process
much more democratic by agreeing to
have others, more or less, keep this mili-
tary campaign in check. Second, and very intelligently
so, Bush has made certain that, if and when he enters
this military strike, he will be backed by bipartisan sup-
port out of the Capital Building.

Quite honestly, this can be touted as one of the
better political triumphs of Bush’s administration so far.
Bush has shown he realizes the importance in working
with others. He’s no longer the guy with the big shiny
pen that sits in the Rose Garden signing papers that
others are uncomfortable with. There can now be open
dialogue between our two major political
parties. There can also be healthy dia-

the Democratic Party of “not caring Thls can be touted as one of logue between the United States and the
about America’s security,” it is evident the better political triumphs other nations of the United Nations con-
that the man is not exactly the most dip— of Bushas adminismm-on S0 ceming Saddam Hussein and his oil-rich
lomatic man in the world. realm.

Moreover, with assurance that the fat Bush has Sh0Wn he The President’s agreements this week
United Nations will be involved, Bush realizes the importance in also pave the way for international sup-
has also allowed the rest of the free world . . port. Currently, aside from Great Britain,
to have avoiceinAmerica’s dealings with Working Wnh Others ii“ a the idea of military action against the

Iraq. While many Republicans feel that
this is none of the rest of the world’s
business, one thing is clear. Whatever the United States
does in Iraq (which many intelligence experts believe will
be ousting the current government), will have a profound
impact on other governments. Therefore, it seems only
fair that the United States allow these countries a voice
in the matter.

Lastly, Congressional Democrats reached an agree-
ment with Bush that ensures the administration will re-
port to Congress on a regular basis. That way, both our

    
         
     

  

Reel Time Fly.Fishiiig A8: .Outfitt’e_r_;f§

    462-6100..--.   
www.re‘cltimeflyfisliing.comT

bipartisan manner].

Mats     
Outerwearaand myFishrngtroructs     

Now Availablein

23WestWashington St},   I, _
-Lcxington,VA’ 715450  

Iraqi regime is less than popular. But this
type of agreement will open communica-
tion between the United States and the other member
countries of the United Nations Security Council.

If Bush has any hope of getting United Nations in-
spectors into Hussein’s palaces and other off-lirriit sites,
romancing countries like France and Russia into adopting a
stricter agreement with Iraq is key. It seems that for Bush,
the art of negotiation must begin at home. America must
come to the negotiation table uniﬁed if it hopes to have any
credibility with the rest of the world.

Lari!!!-IL:

PART-TIME
STOCK ASSISTANT.
Hard-Working,
Well-Organized,
Strong Work Ethics.
Apply at The Shenandoah
Attic,

17 South Main St.,
Lexington
540-464-8383

Letters to the Editor

doiskceptheminformedofwhatthepolicy is, whichwe did, but '1
ultimately they have to decide for themselves what they want to D 53

Denbow does not understand honor
DearEditor, ’

What does Michael Denbow know about honor at Wash-
ington and Lee? I’m afraidthat givenhis last article in W&L’s
other campus newspaper, The Trident, "Ihe Honor Code
cards and ﬁnds a fake,” he doesn’t know very much. For start-
ers, atWashington and Lee, we don’t have an Honor Code; we
haveanHonorSystem.'lhatmay seemlikeaminor grammatical
mistake, but it is not. An Honor System, such as ours, lives in
the hearts and minds of every student. There is no code that
enumerates transgressions or violations, which by its own na-
ture, would become decrepit and obsolete.

The Honor System at W&L is transformed as seniors
graduate and leave, but also grows with every entering fresh-
man class. Embedded in the principles of the Honor System is
not only the ideal that every student will conduct himself or
herselfhonor'ably,butalsothatheorshewillnottumab1ind eye
to what they perceive is an honor violation. Still, it is ultimately
the Executive Commit1ee’s responsibility to evaluate if a stu-
dent has conducted him or herself honorably. It seems to me
thatthefreshmanhadagoodunderstandingofwhathewas
doing, however. So much so that he chose to withdraw before
facing anExecutive Committee hearing.

I’m not here, however, to discuss the Honor System, and
wliatltliinkisorisnotarrhonorviolationlwﬂlleavethattothe
ExecutiveGommittee. I’mheretodiscussanaccusationDenbow
makes inhis article. He accuses adorrncounselor of being over-
zealous forﬁrst,canyingouttheresponsibilitiesofadormcoun-
selor,aridsecond,forupholdirigthehoriorsystemlikeanyother
Wasltirlgtonaridlee student should Thedormcounselorcan-
notbeblamedforthedecisions sorneoneelsemadelrithis spe-
ciﬁccase,thestuderitrnadetwoseriousmistakes.First,heuseda
fakelDtobuyacaseofbeer. Hejusthappenedtodoitinﬁontof
adormcounselonbutitcouldalsohavebcerianyotherstudent

Still, the dorm counselor would not have known it was a
fakeIDhaditnotbeenforwhatthe studentdecidedtodonext.
He then drovebacktohisdorm, whichhappenedtobethe
same one the donncounselor lived in. His second mistake was
whenhedecidedtowalkintohisdormcarryinghiscaseofbeer,
in obvious violation of the alcohol policy. Only then did the
dorm counselor question the freshman. It is the freshman’s
responsibility, not the donn counselor’s, to live up to the conse-
quencesofhisdecisions.Thisisanotheridealembeddedin
Honor System, “Lee established the positive, though unwrit-
ten, rule that students are to accept responsibility for their own
conduct” (Ihe White Book, page 1).

It is unfair to call that donn counselor overzealous. The
Dorm Campus has a duty to report violations of the alcohol
policy to the Deans. Then, the student is given a choice: he can
either accept the strike or contest it at a Student Judicial Court
hearing. There again, student members of the SJC are respon-
sible for deciding whether the student’s actions merit a strike.
The dorm counselor has no role in deciding what the policy is,
and does not have the ﬁeedom of interpretation. In this speciﬁc
case,theon1ythingthatthedonncounselorcanbeaccusedof
is doing a job well done. The dorm counselors have no respon-
sibility for the unfortunate decisions of others. The rriost we can

MONDAY, OCTOBER 7, 2002 '

do.

Still,thereis sornethingeverimoredist1nbingthanDeribow’s
lack of knowledge about the Honor System Fraternity brothers
ofthefreshmanwhowithdrewhavedecidedtoharassﬂiatdorm
counselor. They have continuously called, and even left her

threatening messages on her voicemail. Is this the way we do ._

things at W&L?
Sincerely,

Raphael Penteado’03
HeadDorrnCounselor

Denunciation of German Chancellor unfair
DearEditor,

I’d like to give you some feedback on one of your stories, ‘
published in the Sept 24 issue of the Phi, entitled, “Coward of i '

the weelc Gerhard Schroeder, Gennan Chancellor.”

Fnstofalllthankyouforthefactthatyoutookanissue 

factthaty<xididsocormarlictstlrecorrnrim;xej1xﬁceir1Garriany ’

thatAmericancollege students don’tevenknowwhaeGemianyis.

Apartﬁomthattlierearethroethingsldisagroewithinyour
article: the heading, “rallying against United States invasion of
IraqAT THE LAST MINUTE”, and “Schroeder DIDN’T DE-
NOUNCEtlie statement” (oftheGermanSecretary of Justice).

In the second and third quote, you may call the Ger-
man chancellor an “unabashed panderer,” if that’s your opin-
ion, that’s ﬁne. What you may not do is distort facts or simply
not tell the truth.

You wrote the chancellor rallied against the U.S. invasion
of Iraq “at the last minute.” Is that true? Did the German chan-
cellor change his statement at the tirrie of the election or did he
say from the beginning, when President Bush raised the issue,
that Germany would not participate in a war against Iraq with-
out a United Nations mandate? Gerhard Schroeder stated it at
the beginning of the debate, certainly not “at the last minute”.

The statement made by the former Gennan Secretary of
Justice was ambiguous and certainly was a ﬂaw. Where did
you read that the German chancellor did not denounce his
secretary’s statement? Is it not a fact that he apologized imme-
diately to President Bush, called the secretary to Berlin to report
tohimpersonally andﬁnallyﬁredheraftersheadmittedto
having used the comparison? Of course he did

Finally, why is the German chancelloracoward? You didr1’t

explain it explicitly in your article but I guess you elected him .
“Coward of the Week” because you think he let down the ‘

American hawks at the last minute of the German election to

gain votes. As stated earlier, he did not do so at the last minute. _ ,
Why should he be a coward then? Because he did not have the I 1
same opinion as the American President? I do not think the fact .

thathedisagroedwithanallymakeshimacowardatall.

Please, base your next argument on thoroughly re-I _.

ported facts and not gossip.
Sincerely,

Matthias Dachtler
GermanExchange Student

    W+L’s Own Rap/Rock/Funk Band,
  (Music by 311, Red HotChili Peppers;
lieastie Boys,        

  vocals-Michaelxhauak  
‘Guitar + Vocals -RockyTRosacker I .
Drurnme'r+ Vocals — Andre Toneyp .
_ Bass - Luke Williams-

 

4

     
 
   
 

 

  

 

CATHERINE C. GUY
AaIs&LIEE EDIIOR
EMAII;GIIY<@wIiIn1I

  .  RT_s
Alu mm

Washington and Lee University celebrated another year’s Homecoming
this past weekend with tremendous response and support from students,
faculty, and alumni. Numerous student groups and organizations held
receptions for the returing alumni. Lexington saw an inﬂux of graduates this
weekend, both recent and .

On Friday night, the SAB sponsored a concert at the Pavillion by Bruce
blomsby at the Pavillion, an event that drew a large and enthusiastic student
audience.

On Saturday morning, students, faculty and alumni marched over to the
Law School ﬁelds for Tailgate.

Immediately following tailgate, the Generals Football team defeated
‘Randolph-Macon 7-3 on Saturday afternoon following tailgate at the Law
School ﬁelds.

Many spectators felt that the highlight of Saturday’s football game was
the armouncement of the Homecoming Queen. Nominees from 22 different
Qampus organizations and their escorts paraded across the ﬁeld at halftime.
The nominees were interviewed by a panel of faculty members and the court
was chosen according to campus involvement as well as the interview.

This years winners were:

Homecoming Queen: Kathleen Gibson, ‘03
Nominated by: Chi Psi
Escorted by: Grant Dragan ‘03

First Rurmer-Up: Blair Allen ‘03
Nominated by: Pi Beta Phi
Escorted by: Skye Justice ‘03

Second Rurmer-Up: Meredith King ‘03
Nominated by: MSA
Escorted by: Toussaint Crawford ‘03

l

Turn to page 6 to see more Homecoming photos.

We all know the story. Even if for last night’s drink, hoping
you haven’t been in Greek Central there’s something left in the can.
for too long, you must know this Then, as they begin to ask each
all too familiar tale. Girl meets frat other about the events of the

‘boy. Girl meets Natty Light. Frat previous hours, they find

THERING-TUMP

 

boy, meanwhile, is usually pretty
good friends with Natty Light.
Anyway, girl meets frat boy, Natty
_Light, and eventually meets frat
boy’s bedroom. To
make..a..1ong.. story. 
short, girl wakes up
the next morning
‘and meets the
legendary problems of “The
Morning After.”
Now, of course you will read
this and immediately wonder to
yourself: “Why does it have to be
a girl meeting a boy, and so forth?”
Naturally, the opposite is often the
case. However, for the sake of our
ninvestigation, we will stick with the
above model — especially since
boys usually don’t find themselves
in the sorority house bedrooms. In
fact, from what I understand, any
oy that strays
into illegal
zones of the
sorority houses

 

A I ABSOLUTE FRATLORD
TIM SMITH ‘04

GIRL MEETS FRAT BOY.

themselves in a pickle, since they
have no idea what the other one’s
name is. You can see where this is
going — certainly, it does take
much for the
h ,0 o k — u p
aftermath to
explode in a
nuclear blast of
regret and repentance. But, by the
grace of God and Robert E. Lee,
there are solutions to the dreaded
“Morning After.” Just follow
these simple rules.

First, and most importantly,
the Walk of Shame must be
avoided at all costs. The Walk of
Shame is what gives random
hook-ups a bad name — there is
absolutely nothing worse than
allowing the poor girl to walk out
alone, feeling more humiliated
with each pair
of eyes that
watches her
out the door.

twill find himself GIRL MEETS NAT” LIGHT’ Guys: if you
tackled by FRAT BOY: MEANWHILE 15 allow this to
mercenary VMI USUALLY PRETTY GOOD happen, you
security guards, FRIENDS WITH NATIY L1GHT_ a re dirt.

who will then

“carry you to the
secret dungeon
in the basement of the East
Lexington store, where you will be

«beaten by a combined group of
bitter townies and Panhellenic
Council representatives. So like I
said, we’ll stick with what we’ve
got.

‘ So back to “The Morning
After.” Here we find our boy and
girl, sorting through the aftermath
of whatever nameless acts they

Incomrnitted. First, they look at each
other, then desperately start looking

Don’t be like

that scumbag

before you —
go that extra mile to make the Walk
of Shame a regret of the past. Offer
your new nameless lady friend a
wonderful Waffle House
breakfast. Or, if your regrets are
unbearable, get dressed up with
your lady friend and (God forbid)
go to church —— and so you know,
there are a few denominations
that hold services on Saturday.
You can see my point — it doesn’t
matter how you do it, but don’t
let the Walk of Shame leave a

l& LIFE ~e

PAGE 5

K B l‘lR()Ol§\’/ TlIeRizIg—t1I/11 Pl;/’

OPEN WIDE. Sophomores Jared Harrison and Kyle Meehan enjoying tailgate at the Law School ﬁelds prior to the football game. For more Homecoming pictures, turn to page 6.

Morning after requires proper etiquette

permanent stain on your one-
night-stand.

Now that you’ve completed
step one, the other important
guideline is this: Communication
is Key. For a school with such a
celebrated Speaking tradition, it is
amazing how many people I’ve
found who, for some reason or
another, don’t speak their minds.
I, for one, love to talk — ask my
friends, they’ll agree without a
second thought. It is really very
simple — just tell your new hook-
up pal how you feel. If you wanted
only a one-night thing, say so. If
you want something more, say so.
If you want to finish his or her
Wafﬂe House hash browns, say
so —— then put some Tabasco on
that stuff and go to town! The
worst thing in the world is
uncertainty — it breeds
awkwardness and bad feelings. So
be honest with your hook—up
colleague and eliminate
uncertainty before the problems
begin.

So guys and girls, the next time
you find yourself in a face—to—face
encounter with “The Morning
After,” remember these few
suggestions, and you’ll be all set
to celebrate the glory of your
random rendez—vous without the
pain of disappointment. No longer
will you be forced to avoid all of
those hook-up buddies of the past
— instead, you’ll be able to see that
girl or guy, say hello, smile, thank
him or her for the hash browns, and
talk about trying for the Colonnade
Club (see my previous article).

Of course, all of what I said is
null and void if you somehow manage
to achieve the improbable and hook-
up again in the moming. Then you
would face “The Afternoon After,”
and that’s an entirely different story.
Callmeat463-ll60,andI’lltellyoual1
about it.

Its the chance of a lifetime.....

Write for arts and life, email guyc @wlu.edu

   

The Phi looks back on Homecoming in Wolfe’s day

Articles and photos reprinted from 1951 Calyx:

HO1’1’l6COl’IllIlg was SO SWCCt.....
Washington and Lee, 32; Davidson, 0

Before a homecoming crowd
of several thousand on October
25, the Generals made short work
of Davidson’s Wildcats by
burying them on the bottom of a
32—0 score. Getting off to a rather
slow start, the Blue really got

underway in the closing part of the first quarter,
when Brian Bell‘ took a Davidson punt and scampered
forty—five to the goal. Tightening up, the Wildcats

 

 

were able to hold the Blue to small gains in the
second period, but after that W&L just showed too
much power. In the second half, Charlie Harrington
racked up six more points on a 41-
yard payoff run, Gene Bennett
went over twice on dashes of five
and twelve yards respectively
and Center Joe McCutcheon
concluded by intercepting a
desperate, last minute pass
attempt which he carried twenty—five yards for the
tally. Walt Michaels was successful in two of his
extra point attempts.

ALL PHOTOS BYJEB BROOKS / The Ring-tum Phi

At

SUN. Sophomores C.T. Stroud, Katie Fox, and Carli Hague.’

5-STAR. This meber of the class of 928 was
W&L’s oldest Five-Star General in attendance
this weekend. He joined the queen nominees
on the ﬁeld to help announce the winner.

bovez Dedicated Generals fans cheer the team to victory

Right: Radiant Homecoming Queen Kathleen Gibson
Below Haynes King ‘05 and Kasey Smith of North Carolina
State stand out in the crowd of spectators

Below Right: Ringsend, a Richmond band, entertains the
students, faculty, and alumni at tailgate

I

   

_ ‘ ,Jl?REl\rlYFRANlx1lN
§,}§SRoRisEDII0R
:':Fl\tAlEPRlNlxHl\J@W1U.El)lJ

TI-IE lil“NG—~TE,l.‘\-Il PEI

SFMONDAY, OCTOBER 9, 2002

W&L wins defensive
§.strugg/e over Yellow Jackets
 go 2-0 in conference play

BY JEREMY FRANKLIN
SPORTS EDITOR

 Defense wins football games.
Washington and Lee kept
pass-happy Randolph-Macon out
of the end zone, and a touchdown
pass from junior Peter Dean to
‘classmate Jon Brimer was all the
offense the Generals would need in
a 7-3 win at Wilson Field on Satur-
_ day.
.; W&L improved to 2-2 overall, 2-
0 in the Old Dominion Athletic Con-

to 3-2 and 1-1.
Senior Hunter Price, who set the
‘ Yellow Jackets’ career passing record
in the first half, completed 26—of-45
passes for 204 yards. But the W&L
secondary held when it counted, and
,. the Generals’ pass rush sacked Price
four times among several hits on the
quarterback. '
“We had a great plan going in,”
said junior defensive tackle Brian
‘ Becker, who had two sacks. “We
watched a lot of film, and their offen-

ference, while Randolph-Macon fell J

sive line is not really quick on picking
up blitzes. So we confused them a lot,
and pretty much just got in there all
day.”

The W&L defense responded
well to Randolph-Macon’s spread of-
fense, which featured four or ﬁve re-
ceivers on nearly every play.

“The secondary played well
against a very good quarterback
and very good receivers,” W&L
coach Frank Miriello said. “We
put some pressure on the quar-
terback, and he hadn’t felt that
before.

“We had a pretty good plan, and
the kids executed it.”

The Yellow Jackets scored first
on the afternoon after Bobby Akers
intercepted a Dean pass off a deﬂec-
tion. Price led Randolph-Macon into
W&L territory, and David Ping booted
a 42-yard field goal with 1:49 left in
the first quarter.

W&L scored their only points
of the day following an intercep-
tion by senior Matt Conners. Dean
drove the Generals 56 yards in five
plays, finding senior Jay Thomas
and sophomore Taylor Callaham
for long completions.

Brimer then made a touchdown
grab in the back of the end zone, his
first collegiate score.

 PORTS
i Generals knock off Randolph—c, 7-3

 

QB PRESSURE. Senior Matt Stavish (55) hits Randolph-
Macon’s Hunter Price just after the quarterback delivers a pass

“I always imagined that the first
touchdown would be a big deal, but it
really wasn’t. It was like any other
play,” Brimer said.

Neither team could muster
much offense in the second half.
The best scoring chance in the

third quarter went to the Generals,
who came up scoreless on a 73-yard
drive when junior Whit Whitfield
missed a 27-yard field goal.

After stalling for most of the
second half, Price and the Yellow
Jackets had one last chance to

.Men’s soccer garners 2 ODAC wins

Generals break into conference win column with 3-1 win at Emory & Henry, 2-0 home victory over Randolph-Macon

BY MICHAEL LEE
SPORTS WRITER

The Washington and Lee men’s
soccer team saw an excellent week of

t play, aslthey traveled to Emory &
Henry on Wednesday to post their
first ODAC win, and then hosted
Randolph-Macon on Saturday mom-
ing at the Liberty Hall Fields.

"' The Generals defeated Emory &
Henry 3-1, and shut out Randolph-
Macon with a 2-0 win.

W&L scored once in the first half

¢. against Emory & Henry, thanks to
senior midﬁelder Kevin Bibona’s shot,
assisted by sophomore midfielder

' Joshua Grahe in the 30th rriinute.

The Wasps tied the game in the

‘.‘:'i:;50th minute with a goal from Will

fiMcBryde, assisted by Greg

g",Stephenson. But W&L freshman
 ifmidﬁelder Walker Nickles scored in
 the 84th rriinute, and senior forward

1' Brad Murphy iced the cake with the

 ﬁnal goal in the waning rriinutes of

the game.
W&L senior goalie Tim Foley

’ earned three saves for the game, while

Tommy Smith made eight saves for
Emory & Hemy. W&L outshot the
Wasps 19-9 for the game, and had six

1,. comer kicks to the home team’s three.

The Generals returned to the ﬁeld
for their home opener on Saturday af-

'5 ternoon against Randolph-Macon.

» Homecoming weekend proved to be

'13’ an inspiration to the Generals, as they

[defeated the Yellow Jackets soundly.

I

OFFENSE IN GEAR. Senior forward Brad Murphy prepares to
shoot in W&L’s 2-0 win over Randolph-Macon in the

W&L began their scoring drive
at 21 :29 when senior midﬁelder Kevin
Bibona headed in a cross pass from
senior midﬁelder Sean Hardin. More
than 45 rriinutes later, freshman de-
fender Roger Morscheiser jumped
over the Yellow Jackets defense to
head in a comer kick from Nickles.

Foley earned one save against
Randolph-Macon, while the Yellow

Jackets’ starting goalie, Nick Warner,
had to be replaced by freshman Tay-
lor Grant after Warner was injured
during the game. The two combined
for one save during the game. The
Generals outshot the Yellow Jackets
19-5, and had eight comer kicks to
their one.

Oddly, the game play was punc-
tuated by an inordinate number of

J PB BR()()l\_\/ Tin Ring-trim Pin
Generals’ home opener at the Liberty Hall Fields on Saturday
as sophomore midﬁelder Justin Mygatt (22) cuts upﬁeld.

penalty calls. The Generals were called
for 20 fouls to Randolph-Macon’s six.
The only other time the Generals have
been called for as many fouls was
against Methodist, with 21 against
them. However, in that case, Method-
ist was called for 19.

W&L hosts Southern Virginia on
Tuesday at 4 p.m. at the Liberty Hall
Fields.

. W&L tops Vixens, wins Goucher tourney

E W&L improves to 5-0 in ODAC,
‘ sweeps trio of tournament matches

BY DONNY BANKS
SPORTS WRITER

‘ The Washington and Lee volleyball team
‘ swept Sweet Briar at home on Tuesday and then
won all three matches at the Goucher Invita-

94'.

tional on Saturday.

W&L picked up its ﬁfth Old Dominion Ath-

g, letic Conference win of the season with a vic—_
tory over Sweet Briar in the Warner Center. The
team got the job done in straight games, win-

ning 30-20, 30- 14, 30-26.

Despite the sweep, the Generals didn’t seem
J to dominate in their customary fashion. “We
were a little off tonight,” head coach Bryan
Snyder said. “This is strange, considering that
during this past weekend’s tournament (the
1, Emory Classic), even though we came out with
1 a few losses, we played well and had a lot of
: intensity against quality opponents. “We’ll
.' have to learn more from our mistakes next time.”
Sophomore outside hitter Emily Wolﬁng led
.  ‘the Generals with 11 kills. Fellow outside hitter
i lvlichelle Chastain recorded seven kills, ﬁve digs
t _ and ﬁve aces, while freshman middle blocker
 , Susan Gaillard enjoyed some success with seven
 ‘kills and three blocks. Sophomore setter Jenni-
‘ “ fer Lux also vexed the Vixens with 28 assists.

 

we came out with a win.

“We’ll just have to work a bit harder on our

consistency.”

and Elizabethtown.

amassed 54 assists.

the all-tournament team.

Tournament on Thursday.

After the game, Chastain added to the
coach’s concerns. “We had a lot of trouble com-
municating tonight, and we deﬁnitely didn’t
bring our best game,” she said. “Nonetheless,

The Generals advanced to the Goucher In-
vitational in Baltimore over the weekend, sweep-
ing three matches against Chowan, Marymount

In W&L’s 30-12, 30-15, 30-22 win over
Chowan, tournament MVP Chastain ﬁnished
with 12 kills, while freshman setter Christine
Gladysz notched 39 assists and 10 digs.

Chastain had 21 kills and eight digs in the Gen-
erals’ 30-14,30-15, 3016victoryagainstMaryrnount.
Gaillard tallied 10 kills, and Gladysz had 35 assists.

W&L finished the invitational with a 32-30,
30- 17, 33-31 win in the championship game over
Elizabethtown. Chastain again recorded 21 kills
to go along with nine digs, while Wolﬁng ﬁn-
ished the match with 15 kills and nine digs.

Lux and senior outside hitter Stacey
Kimmel combined for 31 digs, and Gladysz

Chastain, Kimmel, Gladysz and freshman
middle blocker Taylor Gibson were named to

W&L (17-4, 5-0 ODAC) travels to Newport
News to compete in the Christopher Newport

26 win over Sweet Briar at the Warner Center on Tuesday.

JEE BRooI;s/Tire Ring-tum P/Ii
UNDEFEATED IN ODAC. SophomoreJennifer Lux sets the
ball for freshman Taylor Gibson in W&L’s 30-20, 30-14, 30-

find the end zone. A fumble by
senior Chris Sullivan gave
Randolph-Macon the ball at their
own 25-yard line with 3: 16 remain-
ing.

Price marched his team down to the
W&L 1 l—yard line, but the Generals held

J EB BR(X)l{S/ T/re Rmgtrrm P/I2"
in W&L’s 7-3 win at \X/ilson Field on Saturday. Juniors Brian
Becker (94), who sacked Price twice, andJess Lipsey pursue.

PAGE 7

on fourth-and-goal with 0:33 left.

Sullivan’s streak of eight straight
100-yard rushing games, which tied a
school record, came to an end. The
tailback was held to 27 carries for 89
yards, 56 of which came before halftime.

W&L’s run defense, which en-
tered the game third in the ODAC in
yards allowed, looked even sharper
against Randolph-Macon. The Yellow
Jackets finished with 68 yards on the
ground.

Miriello wasn’t pleased with the
number of yellow ﬂags that his team
racked up. W&L entered the contest
with seven penalties for 62 yards on
the season, but committed eight for
76 against Randolph-Macon.

“Very disappointing to me to
have all those penalties,” he said. “I
think our kids had a little lack of disci-
pline there, which is very strange for
us. But we’ll solve that problem.”

The Generals pulled out the win,
and they have a chance to go to 3-0 in
the ODAC for the ﬁrst time since 1982
when they travel to Catholic on Sat-
urday.

“Right now a lot of teams are
going to underestimate us because we
don’t put that many points up,”
Becker said. “But if we keep playing
our game, the offense will get rolling,
and we’ll start taking people.”

Have an idea for a W&L

sports column or feature to

run in the P/oz?

Contact Sports Editor Jeremy Franklin
at fmmé/2'71/@n//rt. edu or X4060.

PAGE 8

 

MONDAY, OCTOBER 7, 20023



Field hockey pulls even
in ODAC at Bridgewater

BY DAVID CROWELI.
ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITOR

The Washington and Lee ﬁeld
hockey team reached an important
milestone by defeating Bridgewater,
3-0, on Wednesday afternoon.

Coupled with a 4-1 victory last
Sunday against Virginia Wesleyan,
the Generals were able to win back-
to-back Old Dominion Athletic Con-
ference contests for the first time in
the program’s short history.

Coach Wendy Orrison was
more pleased overall, however, with
how the Generals got the victory.

“I think it was a solid win. We
clearly won, but it wasn’t a blowout
where obviously you’re in a position
to win from the beginning of the
game,” she said. “We had to work hard
for each of the goals, and I think it
gives the girls a lot of conﬁdence go-
ing into the next conference games.”

-Keeping a switch in the lineup
that the coaching staff put into place
for the Virginia Wesleyan game,
W&L came out slow, barely cross-
ing the 50-yard line for the first 10

FIIEH-IOIO
EAGLES LANDED. Sophomore Grace Barlow scored one of Washington and
Lee’s three goals in the Generals’ shutout win over Bridgewater on Wednesday.

W&L ensured the victory over

the Eagles with two goals in the sec-_

ond half. Sophomore midﬁelder Kitt
Murphy scored an unassisted goal
with 30:23 remaining in the game.

Sophomore forward Grace
Barlow provided the ﬁnal margin of
victory when she scored off an as-
sist from freshman midﬁelder Lind-
say Face with 4:38 remaining.

W&L’s week ended early in
terms of matches, as Catawba’s
coach cancelled the scheduled Fri-
day game between the two squads
due to an outbreak of mononucleo-
sis on her team.

Orrison believes that it is prob-
ably better, as the Generals earned a
well-deserved break.

“If any game could get can-
celled, this would be my choice,” she
said. “We have three games this week
with a lot coming up. My girls don’t
get to rest during Reading Days ei-
ther, so I hope they get time to rest
and take care of their bodies.”

The Generals return to action
when they host Randolph-Macon
Women’s College on Wednesday at

Generals roll over ODAC foes '

Women's soccer opens 5-game conference homestand with blowout wins over Emory & Henry and Guilford

BY DAVID CROWELL
ASSISTANT srORTs EDITOR

It was only a matter of time before the Wash-
ington and Lee women’s soccer team found the
back of the net against Guilford on Saturday
afternoon.

In the first 20 minutes of the contest, W&L
(7-1-2, 5-1-1 Old Dominion Athletic Conference)
failed to convert on two great centering feeds
by junior Fontaine Marcoux, and was whistled
on offside calls at least three times.

In addition, sophomore Maggie Hope’s
shot from close range sailed above the crossbar
after Danielle Brisotti deﬂected a shot by
Marcoux.

Senior midﬁelder and captain Jenny Tho-
mas didn’t miss, as she took a pass from fresh-
man defender Heather Rogers and drilled it in
with 23 :28 to play in the first half.

“We were overanxious, with a decent crowd
and it being Homecoming,” coach Neil
Cunningham said. “We had some chances that
normally we would put away comfortably. We
just needed to get the first one. Getting the first
one makes all the difference.”

From there, the Generals opened up on the
Quakers, using exceptional ball movement to
stake a 6-0 halftime lead. Hope scored two goals
within four minutes of Thomas’ score, getting
an assist from Marcoux on her first tally.

With the assist, Marcoux broke the career
assist record of 23, previously held by 1999
graduate Karin Treese.

Marcoux, junior forward Susaimah Hewlett
and sophomore forward Molly Plummer each
added a score in the first half.

In the second half, the Generals suffered a
mental lapse as a poor pass in the defense led to
a goal by Kimberly Mullen, the leading scorer in
the ODAC, just 29 seconds into the half.

Cross country runs at Dickinson invite

FROM STAFF REPORTS

The’ Washington and Lee men’s
and women’s cross country teams
traveled to Carlisle, Pa. on Saturday
afternoon to compete in the
Dickinson Invitational, a unique test
of depth and stamina.

Senior Burke Duncan ﬁnished in
16:37.32 to take 19th place.

In the 6K race, freshman Ashley
Brown paced W&L with a 62nd place
ﬁnish (26:53.13). Senior Jen Fallon ﬁn-
ished in 27: 16.71 to take 69th place.

In the men’s 4K race, sophomore
Steven Chambers placed 16th by com-

Cumiingham chalked the goal up to the Gen-
erals holding a big lead, but praised the efforts of
his captains in pushing the team to the ﬁnal whistle.

“That’s the true sign of a captain. (Junior
defender) Meghan Hayde was doing a great job
out there, bringing up the level of everyone’s
play,’’ he said. “It will make a difference in the
postseason.”

In the ﬁnal 10 minutes, Marcoux added her
second goal of the day and Rogers scored on a
penalty shot.

Plummer recorded a hat trick on Wednes-
day as W&L started out the week with an 8-0
rout of Emory & Henry. The Generals outshot
the Wasps 51-0, while freshman goalie Mandi
Pietrzyk made 23 saves for the visitors.

Plurrirner and sophomore Martha Allgood
scored in the first half for the Generals, who
turned a 2-0 halftime lead into an 8-0 win.

In addition to Plummer’s two second—half
goals and Allgood’s tally, four other players
found the net for W&L. Leading scorer Gina
Von Stemberg, a freshman, had a goal and two
assists, and freshman Keny Giblin recorded her
first collegiate goal.

Hope, who assisted on Allgood’s goal, and
Marcoux also scored in the second half.

The game allowed Cunningham to use most
of his roster; sophomores Abigail Pfeffer and
Emily Barker also split goaltending duties for
the Generals.

“Everybody is at the same experience level, ~

and the game never drops when anybody comes
in,” Plummer said. “It’s great that everybody
gets to have a chance to play.”

The Generals return to action when they
host conference foe Randolph-Macon on
Wednesday at 4 p.m.

Sports Editor Jeremy Franklin contributed
to this report.

start at 11:30.

The women’s race begins at
10:30 a.m., while the men are slated to

Golf places 9th at Gui/ford/

Tom 0’Briant Invitational
The Washington and Lee golf

 
  

GIVING CHASE. Washington and Lee sophomore Maggie Hope
and Emory & Henry freshman Ashley Elkins go after the ball
in the Generals’ 8-0 win at the Liberty Hall Fields on
Wednesday as seniorjane Ledlie looks o_n. 9

tr
than the Generals to take ﬁfth place, but
W&L placed better than Bridgewater
(12th place), Hampden—Sydney (15th)
and Randolph-Macon (l6tli).

Senior Chip Campbell led the’
Generals by carding a 71-75—l46,
good enough to finish in a tie for
eighth place.

min“teS_°f the game 6?30P-1h~ The Women rah ih 3 4K race and pleting the course in atime of 13:16.22, team competed in the Guilford/1" om Freshman Tom Borda shot a 79- .
Jhhler fefwehd Ke11YTeffe Seered The game is the ﬁfst Of three Te‘ 3150 e°mPeted ih 3 6K race The mehis while senior captain David Hicks ﬁn- O’Briant Invitational on Monday and 73—152 to tie for 29th place. Sopho— A
the game-winner at the 7:05 mark of mining ODAC games on the sehed- team faced the same 4K mm but also ished 42nd (1351.40). Tuesday at the Cardinal Golf & Coun- more Ged Johnson (75-80) and senior
the ﬁrst half’ but Omson Still feels that we If ‘he Generals Wm 311 three» 111' had eh 8K h1h- After the e°1hP1eh°h 0f Junior Andy Schorr led the Gen- try Club in Greensboro, N.C., placing Chuck Green (78-77) each ﬁnished

her squad needs to work on coming
out strong from the ﬁrst whistle.

“We definitely came out a little
slow, but after the ﬁrst few minutes
Bridgewater barely got back
across,” she said. “We need to work
on getting out and playing hard.

“There’s a lot of 1-0 games in
ﬁeld hockey and if we start slow and
give up a goal, that could be it.”

cluding a match against Randolph-
Macon on Oct. 24, they should be in
line to ﬁnish fourth in the conference.

“If we get fourth, it’s so big be-
cause we get to play at home in the
first round,” Orrison said. “But we’re
still concerned about Randolph-
Macon Women’s College, because
they’ve upset some teams and
they’re very strong.”

both races, the scores were combined
to determine the team’s overall ﬁnish.

The women’s team placed sixth
out of 20 teams, while the men were
ninth out of 21 squads.

In the women’s 4K race, the Gen-
erals were led by freshman Molly
Drake, who placed 15th by crossing
the tape in 16:22.12.

erals in the 8K race, crossing the line
in 28:08.03 to take 20th place. Sopho-
more Wes Bell ﬁnished in 32nd place
(2823689).

The men’s and women’s teams
return to competition next Saturday
when they run in the Virginia State
Division H-IH meet at Bridgewater
College.

ninth out of 16 teams.

W&L played consistently, shoot-
ing 303-305—608 as a team, and ﬁn-
ished 27 strokes behind team cham-
pion Duke University (285-296—58 1),
who won the tournament for a record
third straight year.

Old Dominion Athletic Conference
foe Guilford ﬁnished 13 strokes lower

three strokes behind Borda and ﬁn-
ished in a tie for 43rd place.

Duke’s Mike Lefebvre won the
individual title by shooting a touma-
ment-record ﬁve-under-par 65 on the
first day, then following with a 75 on
Tuesday.

W&L competes at the Greens-
boro Invitational today and Tuesday.

I

SCOREBOARD

oin the sports staff of

SAruRDAv’s FOOTBALLYARDLINE W&L SPORTS SCHEDULE: OCTOBER 7-13

0 0
Washington and Lee 7, Randolph-Macon 3 October 7-8 October 12-13 b RZ
Randolph-Macon 3 0 0 0--3 G°" . w°'“e“'5 Tehhls I 6 ” "' ﬂm 2
Washington and Lee 0 7 0 0_7 W&L at Greensboro Invitational W&L Fall Festival, 8:30 a.m. ' I
First Quarter Tuesday, Oct. 8 Saturday, Oct. 12 '

Men’s Soccer
Southern Virginia at W&L, 4 p.m.

Wednesday, Oct. 9
women’s Soccer

Cross Country

W&L at Virginia Division ll-Ill Meet
Women’s Soccer

Roanoke at W&L, 11 a.m.

RMC — Ping 42 FG, 1:49
Second Quarter
W&L — Brimer 20 pass from Dean (Whitfield kick), 7:55

Cover fall sports, from soccer to Volleyball.

Field Hockey »
RMC W&L  ‘“ W&L’ 4 ""“' Juniata at W&L, 12 p.m.
F'rst downs 18 19 . F°°1b3" . - - - ° -
n',,.,,,.,,,,,, 32.6,, 33.92 “Mm 1‘ W&L: 63° 1”" we atcamouc.1p.m. Layout and copy editing opportunities are also available.
Passing yards 211 201 -lhi‘etihs‘l!1ai:i,ck(:yL 10 Isnaiai/Iiaringiffiiitellili Design at W&L
Return yards 28 59 - 1 . ' . . . . 5'
com .An..m 27.49., 1.3.33.2 W&L a‘V"'““"°’ 4 "'"" 33° "'"“ Contact S orts Editor erem Franklin at rank/m @u2/zredu or
p Friday Oct 11 Sunday Oct 13 ‘ ‘/

Sa°'‘e°'Y“'d5 '°s‘ 4'28 2'” Men's Soccer Golf Assistant Sports Editor David Crowell at crouze//d@z://medu, call X4060 or
PWS 1032-2 5-371 Lynchburg at W&L, 4 p.m. W&L Challenge at Midlothian, Va. _
Fumes-'°S1 1-0 1-1 stop by our office at 31 West Washington Street Mondays at 5 p.m. '
Penalties-yards 8-97 8-76 .
Time of Possession 29:52 30:08   

 

ODAC Overall
INDIVIDUAL STATISTICS ream w L w L pi: pi
RUSH|NG—Rando|ph-Macon: Bush 14-60, Price 17-10, Washington and Lee 2 0 2 2 65 73
Jenkins 1-(-2). Washington and Lee: Sullivan 27-89, Caramore 3- Bridgewater 1 0 5 0 175 39
7, Rankin 1-5, Diverio 1-2, Team 1-r-1), Dean 5-(-1o). Hampden-Sydney 1 1 3 1 133 77
PASSlNG—Rando|ph-Macon: Price 26-45-1-204, Jenkins 1- F1a"d°'P“‘Me°°“ 1 1 3 2 82 74
3-0-7, Team 0-1-0-0. Washington and Lee: Dean 16-33-2-201. Em°"y,& Henry 0 0 2 2 60 103
RECE|V|NG—Randolph-Macon: Strong 9-so, Haggard 7-46, °“?“°"° ° 1 1 3 5: 

Kimball 5-67, Maher 3-14, Muench 2-9, Dent 1-9. Washington and G”'"°'d 0 2 2 3 9

Lee: Caramore 4-30, Brimer 3-57, Thomas 3-53, Rankin 3-20, °°l- 5 Re5“"3 °°l- 12 s°h°d”'°

Cauaham 229’ Sullivan H2" ‘I;v'81ll:einia't:iaarn3dtl)Iiizlgnrpzhtietinsiirdney 7 ‘gnaici-ryait (I:-iﬁriirinaict Hampden

|'| , -
IWERCEPT|ONS—Randoiph-Macon: Henderson 1-5, Akers Camonc 26’ Lasane 15 Sydney
1'2- a5h'”9t°" ahd Lee C°”he'5 "12- Guilford 21, Greensboro 7 Guilford at Fernim
. Spring Break 2003 with STS
 O   Americas #1 Student Tour
. . . O erator

Earn $1,000-$2,000 this semester witliaproven CampusFundra1ser I S HT . P hT V IF“:/e

3 hour fundraising event. Our programs make fundraising easy 6 ups eafngzgs Ia ,6 Listen to W &L athletics on WLUR 91 5 FM it
with no risks. Fundraising dates are ﬁlling quickly, so get with Informauo eservatlons ' '

the program! It works. Contact CampusFundraiser at (888) 923- 1'800'648‘48l49 or Visit the W eb Site at http_//wlur wlu edu for
3238, or visit www.campusfundraiser.com www.ststiaVe .com ' ' '

the full fall broadcast schedule. ,
J

 

 

C

at $2’ :2

   

Studios target student sharers

    

"l
1

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

N G-TUM

T/re Iindcni mire of Wotmngton and Lee Unz'oerIz'n time 7897 (D Online at: p/rz'.n1/n. rain

Movie makers detect at least two computers uploading illegally, request school shut down offending accounts

BY ANDREW LATIMER
NEWS EDITOR

Lexington may be over 2,400 miles from Hollywood,
but it is not far enough away to escape the attention of

raj or motion picture companies.

University Computing said two members of the Washing-
ton and Lee community have been warned about sharing full-
length movies using peer-to-peer programs on the network

Once found out, the illegal distributor and the school
can both face criminal charges, which, under the Digital
Millennium Copyright Act, carry a maximum jail sentence
of ﬁve years and up to $500,000 in ﬁnes.

John White, University Computing HelpDesk man-
ager, stated,“It’s going to be an ongoing issue.” File shar-

ing continues to be a popular use of ‘network resources, yet
students have to be more careful about their actions.

“What we’ve tried to do is create policies for students
who aren’t abusing the system,” said White. For instance,
the university will not cut off a student account unless the
student absolutely refuses to stop uploading illegal files.

Students can be brought up on charges of an Honor
Violation only if they promise to comply with university
policy and continue abusing the network.

Director of University Computing John Stuckey re-
vealed that copyright protection company Mediaforce
scanned and logged the address of two KaZaA users with
copies of Fellowship of the Ring, a Warner Bros. release.

The company then sent e-mails to the school, and it
was up to University Computing to determine the users’

names and issue cease—and-desist letters.

Abroadcastemailsenttotheer1tireschoolonOct. 10
mentionedtheuseofpopulartilesharersbutdidnotcomment
on copyright inﬁingement cases. Past cases included two
students last spring who were separately caught upload-
ing Simpsons episodes and Disney’s The Lion King.
Inthepast,theReoording IndustryAssoc.ofAmerica

also sent notices for song swapping.

According to statistics on Mediaforce’s
website, movie piracy costs U.S. movie com-

panies over $3 .6 billion a year.

Univeristy Computing encourages
students to conﬁgure their file sharing applica-
tions to limit uploads to zero in order to prevent the
possibility of future incidents or litigation.

 

V0LUME.C.llN0-X1

PHI 

ii MONDAY,OCTOBER2l,2002

 
   
     

letter sent to

Computing

BY CATHERINE GUY
ms 8: LIFE EDITOR

From the Alumni House to
West Virginia, Washington and
Lee’s most populous student orga-
nization has been on the move re-
cently. The.College Republicans
have been actively involved in lo-
cal politics in the weeks leading up
to Election Day on Nov. 5.

This year, the group is attempt-
ing to strengthen the relationship
between members of the University
and the Republican Party, on both
the local and national level.

Last Monday, College Repub-

A licans attended a Youth Rally on

the steps of W&L’s Alumni House.
The Rally featured Senator John
W. Warner ‘49, U.S. House Repre-
sentative Robert W. Goodlatte ‘77
L, Virginia Delegates Christopher
B. Saxman and H. Morgan Griffith
and Virginia 24th District Delegate
Candidate Ben Cline, who have all
been traveling throughout Virginia
in recent weeks.

Cline is running against Demo-
crat candidate Mimi Elrod, wife of
the late W&L president John
Elrod. A repeat of their recent tele-
vised debate will air on University
Cable Channel 2 tonight and
Wednesday at 7 p.m.

Approximately 20 students
participated in the Rally, which
was declared by College Republi-
cans Executive Director Megan
Zingarelli, ‘O5, to be “very suc-
cessful.” College Republicans
boasts over 600 members on cam-
pus.

Washington and Lee students
were joined by cadets from Virginia
Military Institute, as well as sev-
eral Lexington residents. The stu-

Jniversity surprised

 

College, regional GOP connec

   

_lEB BROOKS T/re ‘rig-tumPin‘

TRIUMVIRATE. Rep. Bob Goodlatte, Va. candidate Ben Cline and Sen. John Warner made an appearance at last Monday’s
College Republicans rally. The event, intended to drum up area support for local and state races, was sparsely attended.

dents were given signs declaring
their support and enthusiasm for
the politicians. Students were re-
cruited from the crowd to stand be-
hind the speakers.

Goodlatte was the first to ar-
rive, and so also the first to address
the crowd. Each of the candidates
spoke brieﬂy, choosing instead to
focus their attention on speaking
to the members of the crowd indi-
vidually. All of the political partici-
pants have ties to the University,
and expressed their fond admiration
for the school and its students.

This Saturday, 12 members of .
the College Republicans traveled
to Martinsburg, W. Va., to partici-

pate in the campaign of incumbent
Congresswoman Shelley Moore
Capito. Capito is competing
against Democrat Jim Humphries
in West Virginia’s 2nd District in
what has been declared to be one
of the closest and most competi-
tive congressional races in the
nation.

Student participants carried
signs in support of Capito and
marched in the Annual Apple Har-
vest Festival Parade through
downtown Martinsburg.

“We really made a difference
by getting her name out,” stated
College Republicans President
John Heath, ‘O4.

W&L volunteers were joined
by members of College Republican
groups at the University of Vir-
ginia and James Madison Univer-
sity, as well as local residents.

The College Republicans plan
to continue this increased level of
activity as the year progresses.
Next Saturday, members will be
traveling to southwestern Virginia
in order to participate in a “Youth
Unity Rally” for Jay Katzen, Re-
publican candidate for Congress.

College Republicans will con-
tinue to participate in campaign
workshops and plan to bring speak-
ers to campus within the upcom-
ing months.

AMONG SCHOOL CHILDREN

  

BY ANDREW LATIMER
NEWS EDITOR

“Caution” was the operative
word during last Monday’s debate
on Iraq, held at the Virginia Mili-
tary Institute.

The forum featured Gen. An-
thony Zinni, special envoy to the
Middle East, who commanded the
attention of the audience.

Speaking at full-volume to a
ﬁlled Jackson Memorial Hall, Zinni
did not budge from his anti-war
stance as he deemed the stalled
Middle East peace process more im-
perative than taking down Saddam
Hussein. “He’s a bum dictator,”
Zinni quipped.

During the forum’s question
and answer session, he added, “If
we are willing to risk 100,000 troops
in Iraq, why not throw our weight
around where it matters (in the
Middle East)?”

The event, entitled “Casus Belli:
Why we go to war—The United
States and Iraq,” gave new life to an
aheady well-wom topic. Fellow pan-
elist Patrick Lang, a consultant to sev-
eral major news networks, remarked
that‘ the sentiment inside Washing-
ton is that war is inevitable and delib-
eration has been limited.

Lang and Amb. Read Harmer
were the only two speakers frrrnly in
favor of conflict with Iraq. “We’ve
given diplomacy a decade, and it’s
good enough for me,” Hamner said
of a peaceful resolution.

Both called a conﬂict with Iraq
crucial to fighting al—Qaeda, and
Harrmer speculated that Iraqi-built
nuclear devices would eventually ﬁnd
their way into the hands of terrorists.

Brig. Gen. and Dean of the (VMI)
Faculty Charles Brower offered his

JEB BR()OKS/ T/re Rltlg-//W Pin
HAWKS AND DOVES. (L to r) Brig. Gen.
Charles Brower, Asst. Prof MarkDrumbl,
Gen Anthony Zinni and Lt.Col. James
Hentz converse following the debate.

thoughts on the type of war the
United States will wage, although he
balked at the projected three-year $275
billion price tag and urged that America
adopt a wait-and—see approach in-
stead of risking a hasty ﬁght.

Asst. Prof of Law at Washing-
ton and Lee Mark Drumbl analyzed
the ramiﬁcations of conﬂict with Iraq
upon international law. He ultimately

. concluded that acting with the in-

tention of a “preemptive strike” will
“lower the bar” for an acceptable war,
leading to increased turmoil and a
world order built upon armed con-
ﬂict. , V

Speakers drew upon lessons
learned from history, as Hamner com-
pared current times to 1939 and the
rise of Hitler. Along with moderator
and assoc. professor of international
studies Lt. Col. James Hentz,
Hamner said post-war actions
should mirror the Marshall Plan that
followed World War H.

The panel entertained ques-
tions from VMI cadets, W&L stu-
dents and Lexington residents for
the ﬁnal half—hour of the 90-minute
event.

Deans oversee peer tutors

     

    
 
    
   
  

WARNER (IN ‘39)

I

. by million-dollar donation

Fomrer ooeducation opponent makes amends

FROM STAFI" AND WIRE REPORTS

One of Washington and Lee University’s most avid
co-education opponents donated $1 million as scholar-

- ship for female students.
I Jonathan Westervelt (Jack) Warner ’40 said of his gift to
the University, “Maybe I did it to alleviate my sins of the past.”
TheretiredchainnanofGulfStatesPaperCorp. wasaboard
. member in the 1980s when co-education was debated and initi-
1 J ated at W&L. Warner said he resigned from the board of trust-

eesin1983inordertobecomemorevocal
in his opposition of co-education.

“I just felt we would lose camara-
derie,” he said. “We would lose some-
thing in tenns of choice. By remaining
all male, I though we would be distinc-
tive, different and attractive.”

Wrthhisnew endowment, designated
for females with academic merit, Warner
said he hopes to show he has somewhat
changed his viewsabout co-education.

“I thought if they are going to have the ladies there,
we might as well have smart ones,” Warner said.

Warner said he designated the scholarship money
for women at the last minute and its label came as a sur-
prise to many members of the W&L community.

Warner has previously donated money to the university to
5 build the self-named facility attached to Doremus Gymnasium
The Associated Press contributed to this report.

jna BR()()KS/T/I? R1;/grum Pin‘
POET LAUREATE. The Glasgow Endowment brought Ireland’s premier female
poet Eavan Boland to read herworkin N orthen Auditorium last Thursday. Boland,
who directs Stanford’s Creative Writing Program, has written eight books of poetry.

 

BY MATTHEW MCDERMOTI
EDITOR IN CHIEF

A new program has matched tutors with
more than 30 students needing academic
assistance.

The Peer Tutoring Program, operated out of

' the Dean of Freshman’s Office, pairs

upperclassmen tutors with “students who may
be struggling, to assess where those struggles
are,” said Freshmen Dean Dawn Watkins.

Students volunteer for assistance, or are
referred by donn counselors or professors.

“I refer at least one or two students per week
throughout most of the term,” Associate Dean
of the College Jeanine Stewart said.

Stewart helps trains tutors and reminds faculty
about the prograrn’s availability. The Dean of the
College’s Ofﬁce payed for the training materials.

However, “Watkins has taken the lead in
developing this program,” Stewart said. After
arriving at W&L two surrnners ago, Watkins found
no comprehensive peer tutoring program existed.

“Mid—way through the fall, I met with
(Stewart) and proposed the idea of a tutoring
program that was centralized through my
office,” Watkins said. With her work, the
program began last Winter. term.

“Last year was the year we got this off the
ground, this year is the year that we are trying
to ﬁnely tune it,” Watkins said.

Watkins currently coordinates the peer tutors
for her Ofﬁce, designing handbooks, maintaining
and monitoring the program and assessing results. .

Assistant Head Dormitory Counselors Dan
Tortora and Lincoln Rose assist her, overseeing the
tutor’s database and assigning them to students.

“About 30 students are being tutored, and
we expect that number to rise signiﬁcantly due
to midterm grades,” Tortora said. “The majority
of students being tutored are freshmen,
probably because the program is part of the
Freshman program, but the Peer Tutoring
Program is not at all limited to freshmen.”

Foreign language, math, and biology tutors
are in high demand, Tortora said.

Potential tutors were sent applications
over the summer.

“Upperclass students, usually recommended by
theirprofemors, appliedtobetutors,”Tortorasaid “Each
department approved orrejectedthose applications and
classes the applicants wislbd to 

“All tutors are nominated by members of their
major department, or another department where the
student has done a substantial amount of high
caliber work,” Stewart said. “This resource
supplements others, like working with the professor
during ofﬁce hours, or meeting with a study group.”

Tutors, who are unpaid, work with students
from 60 to 90 minutes a week. Last week, they
attended an hour-long training. Watkins and
Stewart, who presented, deliniated the goals and
limits of tutoring, presented scenarios and

explained the availability of professional ,

resources. ,
Tutors were given a handbook containing a

Study Skills diagnostic, which was keyed to sections

related to etfective study and time management

    

 Z

E-mail news briefs to.‘

 

BFA announces its new name,
plans for Lexington-area food drive

The ﬁve chairs of the Black Female Alliance
voted last week to change the organization’s title
to the Human Rights Alliance as an effort to make
students “more comfortable” about joining.

“Our name gave the campus an excuse to reject
us. Now they’ll have to judge us on our objectives
only,” saidj unior chair Marinda Harrell. The HRA will
continue to work for diversity and unity on campus.

Several students and faculty members com-
plained that the former name implied exclusivity,
although members pointed out that since day one
“anyone could join.”

The first item on the HRA’s agenda is the kick-
off for their 3,000-bag community-wide food drive,

 

NEWS

which is a collaborative effort with the NAACP,
MSA, Nabors Service League, Rockbridge County
High School, IFC and the Greek system at-large.

Coordinator and HRA chair Melanie Barr ’04 said
the collection area will extend eastward from Goshen all
the way to Buena Vista. Barr stated that the HRA will
work with other student organizations to recruit drivers
and place donation boxes in freshman dormitories.

The drive’s first meeting will be held in Fairfax
Lounge on Oct. 30 at 7 p.m.

‘Good Morning America’ to broadcast

live from downtown Lexington

ABC made local headlines last week with the
decision to broadcast its morning show, “Good
Morning America,” live from from Lexington On
Veterans Day, Nov. 11.

According to The (Lexington) News-Gazette,
the national program will air locally on WSET from 7
to 9 a.m. Hosts Charlie Gibson, Diane Sawyer, news
anchor Robin Roberts and weatherman Tony Perkins
will present the show from the campuses of W&L,
VMI and the corner of Washington and Main Streets.

CARDS ° AF’R%L CORNELL CLOTHING 0 PURSES

E2! W. Netson Street
Lexington, VA 24450

540.464.5002

ECLECTIC JEWELRY 0 CANDLES 0 GIFTS GALORE * FRAMES (R
‘T?
c:
2

 

www'.sho;3pompkinseeds.corn

SLVH 0 S<rJVOS 0 SC)ilElWSOC) WOOTQ ' KEV?! 210:1 SClN.l:l EIFIDINH 65’

Q

MITTENS * SYATEONERY ' HOME ACCENYS

‘63

.x..........

wrn

A

.nr.<u. tore tiger. tn: on at

T

  W I ra>=t*r  -*  

-' a ‘

  Eazltingtrm &ﬁ2;‘§rrin2rsity  

LEr:Ner<:>N \‘rR:::ar.-x 2‘

 

§'{.?UiiDl3I)j 1749 ,

as-

700/  in 

‘ I t”‘i;"tt7‘iirf;t;‘/‘€'¥j“€ t“a“rn;)r;y";"r;,  O '

 

 

 I6wEsTwAsHrNGToNsTREE 
  LEXINGTON. VIRGINIA    

W

BORN &  B R120  

 

450

       <703)463~1832

   

WELCOME PARENTS

Visa

  
 
 
  
 
   
  
  
  
   
 
   
   
  
 
 
  
  
   
     
     
     
       
    
      
 

MONDAY. UCIOBER 21, 1002

The Virginia Tourism Corp. earmarked Lexing-
ton for the show’s “50 States——-One Nation—One
Year” theme. Residents are encouraged to come
out and witness the show’s filming. There has been
no word on whether or not area traffic patterns will
be disrupted for the citywide event.

Pre-registration for Winter term begins

Students must complete their online Pre—regis—
tration process by midnight on Wed., Oct. 23 for
W&L’s upcoming Winter term classes. Official
WebRegistration starts on Mon., Oct. 28 for se-
niors. Go to http://registrar. wlu.edu for WebPreReg
information and procedures.

University flu vaccinations continue

In anticipation of the impending inﬂuenza sea-
son, the W&L Student Health Center will hold an-
other vaccination clinic on Thurs., Oct. 24 from 1 1
a.m. to 1 p.m. in room 109 of the University Center.
The cost to students, faculty, staff and their family
members is $10.—General Notes compiled by An-
drew Latimer

Alvin-Bennie

102 W. Washington St.
463-53 83

  

 

Lacoste Shirts

Woolrich Red Wing Boots

Duckhead Tuxedo Rentals & Sales
W&L Belts, Ties, Sandals, Dog Collars

Blue Blazers

Parent’s Weekend Special
Suits & Sportscoats
20% Off

Open Sunday, October 27th at 9:00 a.m.

Since 1963

Mastercard Student Charge

 

vi

MARLENES HAIRS TYLIST
REDKEN AMBASSADOR SALON .
25 N. MAIN STREET

540-463-6003 “
CERTIFIED SPECIALISTS
IN DESIGN & COLOR

in

 

U

 

MONDAY -FRIDAY 9:00-5:00

SATURDAY 9:00-2:00

LATE APPOINTMENTS
AVAILABLE UPON REQUEST . A

PAUL MITCHELL, BIOLAGE,
REDKEN, BED HEAD, SEXY ‘
WALK—INS WELCOME    
WAX: No, i>EDiCURES,MANICURES

 

~:a2-25¢ "?_v’€;L

  
 
    
   
  
  
  
   
  
 

The new "Wash.ingten Fast E‘.Iect.ronic 'Edéit.ien is the perfect way tar get The Post when you We outside the
home deiivery area... ‘when V0u’re at scmml... and when you still want In safe? the lack, feel and context
of The Pcsfs prim edfticsn.

 

(Set. it delivered digitaliy to your computer or iapwp fimt thing every mowing, seven ﬁays 3 week, at hams,
rim.'I‘::1, office, anywhere.

 

Looks just like The ?ost because it is The Post.

its an exact digital. repfica 0f the davfs print editmn.
includes. artic-1&3, phatos, mi.um.nists., comics, graphics and ads.
Saearchahie anti interactive.

See how right the ma.

 

.. ing feels with The Wasihﬁngton Past delivered yuur way, every day.

firm out ll'l0l'B almut THE Wiaslliﬂﬂlll F051 Eﬁlfﬂiliﬂ Elliliﬂ -
inclmling IIIWI WI! can 998! it FREE 30!’ [W0 weeks-at

IIII .//BEWBSIIIIOS .00

 

  
   

  

hum i\krnr'Ou.=l 1
OPINIONSEDHOR
Emu; Ntrn»rrrAH1@\xrn.u)U

MONDAY, OCTOBER 21, 2002

Globalization. What an awful
word to start off with. More ﬁtting in
a news article for the New York Times

.than an opinions

piece in the Phi.
However, we’re deﬁ-
nitely not safe from
this all-consuming phenomenon, even
in our beloved Lexington. We may
sometimes think we’re in a Plexiglas
bubble, safe from the comings and
goings of the world around us, free to
lead our fun, complicated and some-
times hectic lives without worry. We’d
be wrong if we did.

.mONAL’s INSIGHTS
LIGIA ABREU ‘O6

 

In our tiny, 1,700 student campus,
countries, cultures, religions, and races
intermingle to a degree that is almost
surprising in a place
as ‘conservative’ and
‘homogenous’ as
Washington and Lee
is rumored to be. I’m not saying we’re
as diverse as NYU, but we do have
students from Cyprus, Burma, South
Africa, Turkey, Bulgaria, Colombia, In-
dia, Argentina, Hong-Kong, Germany,
Ghana, Austria, Pakistan, Nigeria,
Nepal, Switzerland, Bermuda, Mexico,
Bahrain, Poland, Netherlands, Taiwan,

Editors in chief



Matthew B. McDermott

PINIONS
Foreign, American student

”I‘liE; RrNO~nnr Ian

Scotland Singapore, South Korea, Ven-
ezuela, Jamaica, Costa Rica, Kenya,
Australia, Belgium, Connecticut. . .you
get the picture. Different backgrounds,
different cultures, different upbring-
ings, different religions, different races,
different viewpoints. It’s a lot more ‘ glo-
balized’ in that sense than I ever
thought it would be, judging from the
limited information I had (brochures
and gossip, more or less).

However, I’ve noticed a ten-
dency in our international students
to stick together. Personally, I think a
huge fountain of knowledge and op-

portunities for sharing and enjoying
each other’s differences are being
wasted. There’s a lot an international
student can learn from someone who
has lived in this country all his or her
life; conversely, American students
come to college to be exposed to a
diverse environment and there’s no
better source to learn about the world
than someone who’s lived elsewhere
in it.

Now that we’ve successfully es-
tablished that a real live person is prob-
ably more interesting (and educational)
than a book or a class, you’re prob-

College humor abounds

3.) I got three of the ﬁve numbers right on

KatieJ. Howell
News Editor Andrew Latimer
Opinions Editor
Arts & Life Editor
Sports Editor
Asst. Sports Editor
Photo Editor
Photographer
Business Manager
Asst. Business Manager
Circulation Director

Dave Crowell

J eb Brooks
Tallie Jamison
Paul Seifert
Thomas Worthy
Henry Grimball

Imran Naeemullah
Catherine C. Guy
Jeremy Franklin

Top 10 reasons to enjoy
this stressful academic season

For some reason, this week more than
other has garnered an extraordinary (and pos-
sibly undue?) amount of stress, speciﬁcally in
the lives of my friends that engage in studies
of the C—School persuasion. Perhaps it’s the
fault of n1id—terms? Or was it the B-law lecture?
At any rate, the level of high—spirited “look—at—
me—I’m-in-college” gusto has declined dramati-

the Virginia lottery two days ago and only won
$5. And if you get all ﬁve numbers right, you get
$100,000, which, granted, is nothing to sneeze
at, but not quite the reward one would imagine
for randomly selecting ﬁve matching numbers.

4.) That selected frozen treats are referred
to as “ice cream novelties” in the D-hall.

5.) I got a threat for the warrant of my
arrest over the summer (sent to NY) for alleg-
edly not paying a parking ticket, when it had
been paid in May.

McQueen Calvert

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee Univer-
sity. Lexington, Virginia. The Washington and Lee Publi-
cations Board elects the Editors in chief, but The Ring-
tum Phi is otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible submis-
sions and letters. All submissions must be e-mailed to
phi@wlu.edu or in the University Center mailbox by 5
p.m. Friday to appear in the following week’s edition. The
Ring-tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for con-
tent and length. Letters and columns do not necessarily
reﬂect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Ad-
vertising does not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi
or its staff. This newspaper observes current court deﬁni-
tions of libel and obscenity.

Advertising Assistant

dandelions:

cally in the last few days.

Students should acknowledge the other
positive aspects of school, relishing the di-
minishing window of opportu-
nity to be all colleged—out, a la
Sean William Scott in the hit
movie Road Trip. To catalyze
such a realization, I hereby
present the top ten funniest aspects of Lex-
ington and Washington and Lee that give stu-
dents reason enough to frolic merrily and toss

1.) The versatility of Wal-Mart that af-
fords students the opportunity to buy “cat

6.) Campus Notices.
7.) Recycling Fridays. Shouldn’t recy-
cling be a endeavor to strive for daily?

8.) When emails get

ORTHERNER’S EXPOSURE sent the wrong people because
KRIS POLLINA ‘03

of the consensus’s penchant
for going by their middle
names, thus rendering email

addresses trickier to know and remember.
9.) PE sports like Badminton.
10.) The phrase, if not the concept of,

“Ducks Unlimited.”

It’s hard to imagine how a student could
be anything other than acutely tickled over this

The Ring-tum Phi
Mailing Address: University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Street Address: 31 Washington Street
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Fax: (540) 462-4059
Email: phi@wlu.edu
Annual Subscription Rate: $35

eye” contact lenses, an acoustic guitar, a vol-
leyball and lingerie all in one stop.

2.) The manager of the GHQ Bistro’s,
Brenda Hartless, whose e—mail address is
bhartless@wlu.edu. Or maybe that she asked
me to paint “a mountain man wearing buckslcins,
carrying a riﬂe, with ‘coons over his shoulder”
on a two-foot diameter saw blade, is funnier.

pool of amusement otherwise known as col-
lege. I feel as though all Intermediate Account-
ing anxieties are profoundly dwarfed when ex-
posed to the larger scheme of humor pervading
the campus. But then again, I’m an English
major so I don’t have to worrying about bal-
ance sheets balancing. And I’m also easily
amused. I think retractable pencils are funny.

ably wondering how you get a chance
to actually interact with one of these
fabulous international students. An-
swer: SAIL. The Student Association
for International Learning: Washing-
ton and Lee’s solution for all our glo-
balization woes. SAIL regularly plans
events to bring the rest of the world
into the sometirnes—not—so—vibrant me-
tropolis that is Lexington; coming soon
are Diwali (the Festival of Lights from
India on Nov. 7th) and the International
Holiday celebration. That’s ir1 addition
to SAIL meetings held at the Intema—
tional House which every W&L stu-

PAGE 4

s should mix

dent is welcome to attend (regardless
of birthplace).

With globalization attacking us
from every side, from economics and
politics to fashion and the music in-
dustry, no one can afford not to go
with the ﬂow. We either learn every-
thing we can about the planet we call
home, or we sink. Today we have a
unique opportunity, as members of this
community; a chance to learn intema—
tional affairs from the ones who know
it best, international students them-
selves. Don’t waste it. Look SAH. up
on the web at http://sail.w1u.edu.

W&L lacks dating scene

Writers from the Phi often write
about W&L’s dating scene, or lack
thereof. After some background research,
I found two broad themes echoed by
most people I interviewed: the ﬁrst was
dislike of the opposite
sex and the second was
recognition of the preva-
lent hooking-up scene.

“The guys/girls
here suck!” I have
heard this phrase more at W&L than
anywhere else. Perhaps people say
it out of frustration, perhaps out of
despair, or perhaps because they
haven’t found the right person for
them. But, it is statistically impossible
for all of the guys or girls here to be
terrible. There is no shortage of de-
cent single people on campus. I think
that this phrase reﬂects more on our
severely fragmented student body.

Students should ask themselves the
question: “How many people have I
honestly tried to meet this week . ” Ifyou
are not a freshman, your answer will prob-
ably be pretty low. After freshman year,
W&L students tend to establish social
circles with staying power.

It seems that dating pools (and
friendships, which are more important
anyway) would expand if students
would more readily venture outside of
their customary groups.

  
    

COMMON SENSE
ONATHAN WORTHAM

Also, it is clear that W&L is on the
hooking-up system. Hooking up, rather
than dating, is acommon way of ﬁnding
that special someone. Obviously, both
systems have beneﬁts and drawbacks.

But, in my conversa-
tions, I didn’t ﬁnd any
girls who didn’t want
<04 to go on dates—or
guys for that matter.
Use this infor-
mation to your advantage! If the
people I talked to are telling the truth,
why is the hooking up system so
much more popular than the dating
one? Perhaps it is convenience, per-
haps students have too much aca-
demic work to go on dates, but, most
likely, people are apprehensive about
asking each other out.

Datefunctions manifestthisapprehen—
sion I’mnot sure why W&Lhas somany
date functions (we should cut back to one
peryear,Ithink),butitseernsthatthenum-
berofpeopletakingadateisonthedecline.
When date functions come up, everyone
hasheardsomeonesay:“I’mnotgoingwith
anyone. I’m just going to get drunk”

Now, if we use what we’ve gotten
from the first two paragraphs of this ar-
ticle, it should be easy to ﬁnd a good date
and have more fun at date functions.
Christmas Weekend fast approaches:
make sure you do something about it.

C’

it

 

A

  

PAGES 
conﬁdent tint Saddam’s prospects wee better
l!'EI1in!]iS1:IBVi0l.]SC16di0I1iI1WhiC!1hBgamE1ed

Ira WtW,,,..WW
by the unanimous decision

BRYAN EARLY Skeptics have said that capturing all

THE WT WORD 11,445,638votesintlieocxnmyofl1,445,638wzs

impomble. “Someone who does not know the

Baghdzilmqs Iriashoddngtumofevtnts, Iraqipeop1e,hevvillrr)tbelieve,butitisreal There
irnrrbmtPresidex1t—f<r—Lifecarxﬁ(la1eSerlrlarn isnoopposition Thisisadayofpridehonorand

Hussein swept elections in The People’s digtIity2EI1aqisexpresstheirﬁeewilltosay“yes”

Whileamlysswae tiothepir1rrx.ieofttieirgl<1yat1iloﬁiriess[Satlt:t11n

Parents’
Weekend
Tailgate 2002

Enjoy lunch and
entertainment with
family and friends
Entertainment by

Right On!
Motown and Disco

Law School ﬁeld

11:30-1:00

Saturday, Oct. 26

Welcome,
Parents!
Welcome,
Parents!
Welcome,
Parents!

Store hours

"€33-»%Ll‘}1'ii.ET‘r~;=:’_;-"§"%;L‘?tl Fr 

 

WELCOME PARENTS

Exclusive W&L Football Polo Shirts

Have a name or number embroidered while you shop
Extended embroidery hours for this weekend

Monday - Thursday 10-5:30
Friday & Saturday 10-7:00
Sunday 11-3:00

15 W. Washington Street
Lexington, Virginia
(540) 464-3000

www.universitysportwear.com

  

H1mein],”saidlbrahim(CNN).

Legal messures helped spearhead the
victory. “Having Supreme Court Grief Justice
Saddarnﬂussei rule(l—0)thatvotesagainst
Saddam Hussein for president would be
unconstitutional was necessary to enstne an
operiaridtaireleaiorririwhiclitlietrtiewillofttie
people was teﬂeaed,” stated analyst Saddam
Hussein

"lhe2(X)Zelectionsawnewtacticsby
political advocacy groups that proved elfective

FINE CONSIGNMENTS
2067 MAGNOLIA AVE.
BUENA VISTA, VA 24416
261-1737

LIFE

Ltil—lERli\1: L. but
ARlS&LlFE EDHOR
FMlll.‘GUY(@\X/lJ.ll5DL'

ir1rr1obilim’ngthevote."IheConce.zr1edl\/ﬁlitarits
fortheRel31edi<x1ofSackiarr1uﬁlizedthecaK:l1y
slogan “VbteforSaddamorWe’llKil1Your
Goats” while walking door—todoor wiIhAK—
47s

Arx)thakeyir1Saddatr1Hu$eir1’sstIategy
dates back to the Ottorran days. Suppresdng
l!EK1l1(BiSapl()l.KllIT:diIi(Il,aII1S&k!aII].iHI1l')‘3
need to  Pie-Eledion poling placed
Saddarn’s popularity in the Kutdishdominated
north at a 96% disapproval rating, encouraging

WHY PAY A LOT WHEN YOU DON'T HAVE To?

A   FRUGAL ELEGANCE

FoRMALs, BRIDAL GowNs, SuITs, DRESSES BY SIGRID OLsEN,
HALSTON, LIz CLAIBORNE, JoNEs NEw YORK,
E_vAN-PI<‘:oNE, NAUTICA, AusTIN REED.

 

GWTSKXPE

\.Iu>IfII'&g

PART-TIME

‘ STOCK ASSISTANT.
; Hard-Working,
l We||—Organized,

Strong Work Ethics.
Apply at The Shenandoah
‘ Attic,
1
I

17 South Main St.,
Lexington
540-464-8383

  
 

Saddarritottnrrliisareapolitiatlfcxuiriesaruniti

' His pogram consisted ofravishing the
region with govemrrmt-subsidized diemical
weapom1)ro\edlargelyeifedive.“Wewonied


Husseir1’schatioesatauriariirnouselection,so
we took signiﬁcant steps. Now, vvhat’s 96%

alShz’nit.
Wltnmkedbyreportas ﬁomal-Jazeer
wlntl1eit1terrledtr)dorx)vv,Himt:ir1statedttuit

~ Saturday Night

' .
3925!; o 2 
PEBAL CAR DINER & ‘Tm Tor (3_Ar.E

Order from our Menu
24 Hours nDay, Sewndayaawcek!
Orfain mﬁvr one ofoter ALL YOU TBuﬂ£-ts.’

- Friday Night Seafood Buffet with Crab Legs 5PM-10PM
Steak & Shrimp SPMAOPM
«Sunday Baked Chicken & BBQ Ribs 11AM—9PM
~BreaIctast Bar 7 Days a Week SAM-11AM
~Dail'y Hot Country Ba: 11AM-10PM
-Daily Soup. Setad. & Frm‘t Bar 11AM-10PM

Home Cooked Meals 8 Southern Hospitality!

Located at

LEE HI TRAVEL PLAZA
I-81 & H54, Exrr 195, .2516 RT. 11 N.
540-463-3478

61-eat: Food 8: a arm collection of
Antique Pedal Cars & Tin Toys!

MONDAY, OCTOBER 21, 2002

bewuikllxlikiarrnsqtlevisibleﬁornspaoeirithe
slapeofhisthurrb-pririt. “Ididnotwanttiodoit,”
saidSadiaIn,‘1JutrI1ypeopbdeImrIledit Now
Ineedsomawtxkczstoriragarxlpilelargegrariite
blocks” said Hrmein as he smiled toward the
northwest.

II1resp<metotheelet:tiori,PresideritB1Bl1
isuedthestanmnt, “whileldidwantto goto
war with Iraq to liberate them from Saddam’s
Mybad,Sad.lam”

    
    
         
       
       
   
     

  

W C I!

Repairs ~ Contacts

COOL FRAMES!
HOT LENSES!
SHADES!

T%E @EW ©lWll@l]&l§J5

20 years serving Rockbridge
at 203 N. Main Street, Lexington
463-7440

 

 

Spring Break 2003 with STS
Americas #1 Student Tour
Operator
Sell Trips earn cash Travel Free
Information/Reservations
1-800-648-4849 or
www.ststIavel.com

 

A Community Cooperative '

Enhancing your well—being by '
providing healthy affordable 
foods and products.
Fine. Selectiori of
Fresh Organic Local Produce

 

A3 M‘ .-Tlt .9-5 *
O1.)enFriiii1y 9-gm.

- Saturday‘)-5 _ __
Counter Culture Cafe’ In
Lunch M-E 1-1.u.n_1 2:00 31.11:. -~

Vegetarian Meals: ' ‘

110 West Washington street
Lexington, Vuginia 24450 -

, 463-6954
www.hfoods@rockbridge.rret A
Student Plans Available

 

           
     
  
  
     
   
  
    
           
    
          

v 2; jun

,::-'-5. 15  2?‘

LOOK Your: BEST FOR PARENTS’ WEEKEND.’
Come by and see Skip, Marla, Connie and Wilson.

4 r ‘ .. *-ztsz;

    
 
     
  
      
 
 

  

 

‘ I "57 . Fraternitiesﬂsororities
  p gap  clullsjstullentﬂroulls
-»  %&..'.'.?’ .. I ‘ ,;.zVM 

Earn 53 l ,000—$2,000 this semester with a proven CampusFundraiser

A 3 hour fundraising event. Our programs make fundraising easy

§»~E fa  :8 with no risks. Fundraising dates are ﬁlling quickly, so get with

“J  ’ ’“‘”‘* the program! It works. Contact CampusFundraiser at (888) 923-
‘ 3238, or visit www.campusfundraiser.com

  

22 S. Main Street 0 Lexington, VA
Open Mon., Tues., Thurs., & Fri. 8 a.m. - 5 p.m.
Sat. 8 a.m. - noon; Closed Wed. & Sun.
540-463-5954

LEX|NGTON’S

STORE FOR COUNTRY STYLE

 

 pi   1s'r ANNIVERSARY SALE
M°"d*‘i’§ -         o   10% OFF ALL IN STOCK
 ;§aan’:::2 ;:st.. §;§.‘§_<;17i  I 8 ITEMS I

Upcoming Events:     4 DAYS ONLY

 
 

  “A Lexington Tradition”
 {If ForGoodPood... For.GoodTimes... For Good People...

  

  
  

 
  

     
     
     

   

 

  

     
     
 
 
   
   

 

    
 

 at i'§3>;T” t’i.ltt{Zt  .nm at %;.t’:::*‘ti§It’tit_ ‘ . ..
 ’ c n 4'       t ’ 3 4  THURSDAY-SUNDAY .  « .
£5      p 5 Oct 241-" _ Oct 271-"   Full menu mcludes beef, seafood poultry and pasta ‘
  .§..%.,,t.%...»  6;. Jan.  :iL«-Q    _ Cocktailxwineandbm
             sundaynruno  
 .      MOUNTAIN TRADITIONS  fat’ y ‘Hollis! 101WestNelsonStmet
\ 35-  (see:-{E1    .  '  9 N. Main Street, Lexington. Va ' « :  Msgru-:1“ Lexingtonlvlrginia‘ I
    g   ~_   H A Mon. - Sat. 10 a5.I2b- 2 11 a.m.-3 p.m. ‘_‘-‘L  smﬂagylépgpftllgougﬂ 4637911 :1
/I §‘”'% ":"'§“{““"”f/$5 "      " ‘ "  - - ' N   
t 5 . _’~ ~
Come celebrate our I war   Mo.   '
_ I I g Lexington,\_/A24450
annlvarem-1 and save I074 on Take a asst;/‘36r:522‘the books! ,

Come explore the sumptuous delights at CaIoline’s Bakery. Enjoy our fine
Italian Coffee with your favorite breakfast Pastry. Bring your appetite for
lunch. Our soups, salads and sandwiches are always made fresh...and

affordable. We create beautiful cakes for any occasion.‘ Let us make your
‘ party a sweet success! » ' A I

 
     
  
   
  
   
   
 
 
 

eventhing in the etore!*

 mt off at eve-r-{thing 101: IMI1 duI*i.ng the entire
month of Gctalm* (‘swat  and Iaewapapeirs}.

  

we are -Ct full  grocery store. and w=e;:am to please. we com»:

1 scrilmptéous fruits and I-relgttvszaitttxblas
Ir creamy mill-:1. tzattterond rsztttarot cheeses 
«I» savory EJE‘IC|"alT1BG§5, spicy sea-us, mud crunchy claim

«I: fresh  mood frorn The $oufh.em arm

«I tetzestwirag  sodas -and amp-orted waters

(I 'C1UiC|£VU!‘ld‘1'C3'I‘5I' fro-zen fﬂclﬂef and decvodern ice memo dasserts
-I :'e::w:Ee~::l popemroducts and envlrottrnent-tntersdty cleaners

II healthy supplernze-rats mo body care pr‘odLn:ts

«Ir full flavored coffees and few. plow.  MDT MDQEZ!

  
  
  

 
  
    
   
     
   
    
 
   

C°‘oc0r1£’/W/4_ @oc0Mn @/72/Ia/y

 

  Fine Chocolate Confections
Mcomspmtgorgaric Mmuatvmaw ‘ * . . ~ . l . V
'*°*““**'**“’° ""‘"*9‘*°t*°* *"°“°'*‘°‘°*-'   COL SPRING   Downtown Lexington

      ORGANIC MARKET

      
 
  

a’¢.‘I2:=.-.-mt. Ii.-'ryp';a.v.=s.‘::t’: :2.-.e-.-A L'.num.s4"t hzstt-cl

   
     
  

I’.    5*" ““““"” » &EI]1§i“1t.2’lh§a1-{2ihSII‘e~BT i&»x’mglUa’t.’u'A ::a4a;a.aea3~asa:Is -
“MW-tnvnmmmmw * r     www.cocoamtll.com

mm? to the Rocémotgw Fm't‘Ier"s Coop}
115 West Nelson Street — 540-464-8400
Mail Order Anywhere

   
  
  

 

     
   

U
phiforlife.
H
I
. INIELSON FINE Arr»
885 we '35? ‘El! 26
S t F k 53 by GALLERY
’ 27W. Washington Street ‘
_ L xi ,vI I I
feet of cargo space, and ‘§4'5‘.’_‘f£3-9';§‘,';“
. _ . p . A . www.neIsonfineartsga|Iery.oom
Is amiable wItlI zoo hp WWW“ _5m .
I ww  ' '
and 3 B-speed ntannal °°=°'"'°" °v=&5""=*°v=
‘ p I g I _ ‘ Anartlsts'c_ooperative
shltt. Even avnlutmn __ '°“"d°°#"?99°- cl
na 81] 6
,   ,_ t  .,n.°:r.:::;n9.r::..t.'~"'
    IL Fea1urinr%:tnocn;1memI:r guest
8 ea ITIOH .
I
am tom :n-‘ooze sass not no;  Ln B,.g',§;n,,;"§¢g;,EgSm
Eﬂ%lF£.PJ%.tBEEtittﬂ t{taE ‘2’tZF3.‘t£i$FPt2t§tL£t3BE; » I PAISLEY GRIFFIN
oearna:  no monies FE aa.u.tz,:a» not °°“]§’,E2¥ {?,‘.§‘;f,’§‘3f”
rat. amass. onaznes not F£'IZ§m!l.t:£  nov numsutt t‘
.o::tua Flt’£§!.l;tt'*:TaR?l’ “"3; ‘gﬁ,“‘g,“E’§‘£

 

A1 l

. . _:; ,,4._:2+:—..;_.'.~_r_;__ A

t ‘{

Jrltrixii l‘i<nNlxlJl~l
SPORISEDHOR
EMRI; ERR\imNi@wwE3U

MONDAY, OCTOBER 21, 2002

PORTS

1
 RlN(}~”ll.ihl PEI

.W&L unbeaten streak reaches 14

Generals sandwich 2-goa/ wins over Eastern Mennonite, Chowan around 1-1 road tie to Bridgewater

BY JEREMY FRANKLIN
SPORTS EDITOR

The Washington and Lee

._ women’s soccer team pushed its un-

It

0

'4

8‘

beaten streak to 14 games with home
wins against Eastern Mennonite and
Chowan and a road tie against
Bridgewater this week.

Sophomore Molly Plummer had
two goals and an assist as the Gener-
als (11-1-3) knocked off Old Domin-
ion Athletic Conference foe Eastern
Mennonite 3-1 at the Liberty Hall
Fields on Thursday.

Plummer scored her first goal at
34211 of the first half on a shot from 18
yards out. She assisted freshman
Kerry Giblin’s tally with just over two
minutes remaining before halftime.

The Royals made a brief charge
to begin the second half, and Audra

i Baker sliced the lead in half when she

1‘

C

.,

beat W&L sophomore goalie Abigail
Pfeffer less than ﬁve minutes after
halftime.

But Plummer and the Generals
responded, and the sophomore for-
ward notched her second goal of the
afternoon at 59:55.

On defense, W&L contained Roy-
als forward Ellie Lind, who entered the
match with 14 goals in 11 games. Pfeffer
made two saves to earn the victory.

“It was probably defensively the
best game we’ve played all year,”
W&L coach Neil Cunningham said.
“The first half we played particularly

, well. That was our best team perfor-

-4.

 

mance all year, without doubt.”

Listen to the Afternoon
Sports Beat with Jeremy
Franklin and Jake Trotter.

Sundays at 6 p.m. on
WLUR 91.5 FM

Part-Time

Retail Assistant.
Hard—\X/orking, Friendly,
Strong Work Ethics. Apply at
The Victorian Parlour,

23 South Main St.,
Lexington
540-464-8888

_lEB BROOKs/ The Ring-lu P/Ii

INSTANT OFFENSE. Sophomore forward Molly Plummer (9) scored once in W&L’s
2-1 win over Chowan at the Liberty Hall Fields on Sunday. In three games this
week, Plurrirner ﬁnished with four goals and an assist.

W&L had a nine-match win
streak snapped at Bridgewater on Sat-
urday, as the Eagles battled the Gen-
erals to a 1-1 tie.

Plummer tallied a ﬁrst—half goal for
W&L, which concluded the ODAC regu-
lar season with an 8- 1-2 record.
Bridgewater tied the contest 2:26 into
the second half on a Sandy Lagana goal.

The Generals had plenty of
chances to break the 1- 1 deadlock, but
they couldn’t beat Bridgewater keeper
Julianne Blevins, who recorded eight

saves. Sophomore Emily Barker
played all 1 10 minutes in net for W&L,
making one save on the afternoon.
Cunningham was disappointed with
his team’s effort, which may have cost
the Generals a regular—season ODAC title.
“We didn’t play as well as we
should, and we didn’t deserve to win
on the basis of that,” he said. “Every
game is important, and we just got a
little ahead of ourselves, thinking
about (the ODAC Tournament) next
week before we even played today.”

MEN

Glorious Cotton Cable Sweaters

Gitman Shirts —

Many Patterns

Firehose Pants & Cords
;’V&L Crest Ties and Belts
“ Alynn Ties (Whimsical)
Fabulous Bow Ties
Woolrich Flannel / Outerwear Shirts

 

W&L bounced back from the
Bridgewater tie less than 24 hours later
with a 2-0 win over Chowan College
at home on Sunday.

Plummer again found the net in
the first half for the Generals, de-
flecting a pass from Giblin off
Braves goalie Emily Wartham and
into the net.

“She’s doing a great job. She’s in
the right place to ﬁnish a chance that
we’re creating,” Cunningham said of
Plummer. “She’s been pretty impor-
tant, the last week especially.”

The home team extended its lead
to 2-0 with 17:21 remaining before half-
time when sophomore Maggie Hope
scored off an assist from junior
Fontaine Marcoux.

The Generals’ coach noticed the
effect on his team of playing three
times in four days in the second half.

“We were a little tired, and three
games in four days deﬁnitely showed
today,” Cunningham said. “Luckily,
we got the two goals early on, but we
looked really tired in the second half.”

W&L has until Saturday to re-
group, as the Generals host Savan-
nah Art & Design and Goucher on
Saturday and Sunday of Parents’
Weekend. Though both games are
non—conference, Cunningham be-
lieves that it’s important for his team
to head into the ODAC Tournament
Nov. 2 with a couple of wins.

“They’re real big because they’re
not ODAC games, but we’ve got two
games to get ready and get prepared,”
he said. “We need to win both.”

The
College
Town

Shop

SINCE 1926

Generalscontinue
march through ODAC

Volleyball improves to 8-0 in conference with 4 road wins

FROM STAFF REPORTS

The Washington and Lee vol-
leyball team took to the road this
week, sweeping ﬁve matches to im-
prove to 22-5, 8-0 in the Old Domin-
ion Athletic Conference.

The Generals started the week
with a 30-21, 30-14, 30-17 win over
Emory & Henry. Sophomore outside
hitter Michelle Chastain tallied 12 kills
for W&L, while
freshmanmiddle
blocker Susan
Gaillard ﬁnished
with 11 kills and
six blocks.

Senior out-
side hitter
Stacey Kimmel
recorded 10
kills, and freshman setter Christine
Gladysz collected 37 assists and four
blocks against the Wasps.

W&L traveled to Lynchburg
over the weekend, knocking off
Randolph-Macon Women’s College
on Friday and beating Lynchburg,
Virginia Wesleyan and Villa Julie on
Saturday.

Inthe Generals’ 30—15,30-16, 30-
20 win over the WildCats, freshman
outside hitter Laura Byme led the
victors with 10 kills.

Kimmel broke the W&L career
service ace record with six against

CHASTAIN

 

the WildCats. Lindsay Ruckert, a
2002 graduate, held the previous
record at 202; Kimmel’s effort
against Randolph-Macon Women’s
College pushed her total to 206.

The Generals then swept a
trio of matches at Lynchburg Col-
lege on Saturday, starting with a
30-13, 30-24, 30-17 win over the
Hornets.

Chastain had 18 kills and 10 digs
for W&L against Lynchburg, while
sophomore outside hitter Emily Wolf-
ing recorded 11 kills and 11 digs.

Gaillard and freshman middle
blocker Taylor Gibson notched 10
kills apiece, and Gladysz tallied 47
assists and eight digs from the set-
ter position.

W&L then made short work of
Virginia Wesleyan, dropping the
Marlins by a score of 30-11, 30-8,
30-18. Gaillard led the Generals with
nine kills, and Gibson ﬁnished the
match with seven kills and four
blocks.

Chastain recorded 16 kills
and 12 digs in W&L’s 30-19, 30-
18, 30-18 non-conference victory
over Villa Julie. Gladysz contrib-
uted 30 assists, 10 digs and six
aces.

The Generals play at home for
the first time since Oct. 1 when they
host ODAC foe Bridgewater at 6:30
p.m. on Tuesday.

WOMEN

Career Jackets - 20% off
*Unique Sweaters*
Leegin Belts
Woolrich Outerwear
Lanz Gowns - (It will be cool)
Turtlenecks - Only $24.00
Foxcroft Blouses

25 % OFF

BIG SALE ON SUITS & SPORT COATS

VISIT US AGAIN FOR PLEASANT

SHOPPING & FIRST QUALITY MERCHANDISE

v

VISA

Genie in a B0!“ 8: ilIaW!I sav. "NIIIIIIIIV cares"

r.,|+:};1r~=(;'I'ri‘.y‘'i 1;
cOi?ijEE

." ’:In(t.s'a'I}'_.'.-'/ ( '.(.'III’/}4lI‘¢'{/'

ACOUSTIC MUSIC WEDNESDAY MORNINGS 8 [SH - 9 ISH
ESPRESSO - CA  - FRESH ROASTED COFFEES ‘ FINE TEAS
9 WEST WASHINGTON STREET v LEXINGTON - 464-6586

111 WEST NELSON STREET

MASTERCARD

 

$00K Signing with Locafﬂlutﬁors
K2275 Lazrrcmsrt L 915

My Dearest Angel

A Virginia Family Chronicle, I895-I947

Saturday, October 26
11:00 a.m. - 1:00 p.m.

_ Signed Cy Twombly and
 ally Mann» Books (of Art and Photography)

‘Zﬂe 2900/{era

107 W. Nelson St.
464-3377
bookery@rockbridge.net

Over 40,000 Books, New, Used & Rare
Open Everyday at 9:00 a.m. ~ 7 days a week

 

 

  

 

FAGD o

MONDAY, ULTOBER 11, zuuz

BY DAVID CROWELL
.\SSlST.\NT SPORTS EDITOR

Despite a furious charge by the
Washington and Lee men’s soccer
team, Catholic’s combination of
Cameron Bassiri and Keith Cappo
proved too much as the Cardinals
topped the Generals 4-3 on Saturday
afternoon.

Bassiri tallied a hat trick, scoring
the first three Catholic goals, and
Cappo scored the game-winner with
11:57 to play, overcoming a tremen-
dous day by sophomore midfielder
Brian Pirkle, who scored two goals and
set up a third W&L score by drawing
a foul in Catholic’s zone.

Bassiri started the scoring at the
9:29 mark after beating two defenders
down the left side and drilling a shot
into the top right comer past senior
goalie Tim Foley.

The Generals (5-7-2), however,
wasted little time in evening the score,
as Pirkle scored his first goal less than
two rriinutes later. Following a jumble
in front of Catholic’s net, W&L’s lead-
ing scorer headed the ball in off an
assist by senior forward Brad
Murphy.

“The ball was really jumping
around in front and it was just bad
defense on their part,” said Pirkle,
who now has seven goals on the year.

The score remained tied at 1-1 for
the next 15 minutes despite some
good scoring opportunities for W&L.

DPORTS

Catholic edges men’s soc

Bdrm Dim/Tie Rir1g—lur21P/Ji

I CARDINALS WIN. Senior midfielder Garreth Winstead prepares for a throw-in during

Washington and Lee’s 4-3 non-conference home loss to Catholic on Saturday.

Bassiri ended the deadlock after
some miscommunication by W&L’s de-
fense, taking a deﬂection off sophomore
defender Peter Miller and easily putting
the ball past Foley. The Cardinals took

that 2-1 lead into halftime, but Bassiri

extended the lead with 18:22 to play.
W&L proved they still had some

life, however, as Pirkle made a run to-

wards the goal, only to be tripped by

cer, 4-3

Catholic’s goalie, Todd Magin. The
foul, hotly contested by the Cardinals,
gave the Generals a penalty kick,
which junior midﬁelder Jacob Stoehr
easily hit, pulling W&L to within one.

“It felt good. We were talking about
who should take it and I had been the
man who drew the foul, but Jacob really
needed one to help his conﬁdence, and
I was glad he hit it,” Pirkle said.

The goal was the first of the year
for Stoehr, who tallied nine goals last
season.

Cappo scored the game-winner
just over two minutes later, but W&L
provided some drama in the closing
seconds, as Pirkle scored with 46 sec-
onds left.

“We obviously want to score
every goal we can. It’s a matter of re-
spect and we should be putting them
in at every part of the game,” he said.
“I think that’s indicative of our team.
We’re always going to go hard.”

A hard-fought match resulted in a
0-0 tie on Thursday afternoon as cross-
town rivals W&L and VMI faced off at
the Keydets’ Patchin Field.

VMI held a 13-6 advantage in
shots and a 15-5 advantage in comer
kicks, but couldn’t get anything past
Foley, who made seven saves.

VM1’s Brian Douglas turned back
six shots in goal for the Keydets.

The Generals return to Old Domin-
ion Athletic Conference action when
they travel to Eastern Mennonite for a
4 p.m. match on Wednesday.

Field hockey wins twice, evens record

] Eh BRoot;s/ File Rmg-tzmz Pi

GENERALS WIN BIG. Sophomore defender Erin Rathbone finished with a goal and
an assist in \Washington and Lee’s 6-0 win over Sweet Briar on Tuesday.

W&L runs at DeSales

FROM ST.ll’l7 REPORTS

ALLENTOWN, Pa —The Wash-
ington and Lee cross country teams com-
peted in the DeSales Invitational on Sat-
urday, as the Generals ﬁnished 10th of 40
teams in the men’s race and the women’s
team placed 13th in aﬁeld of 38.

Sophomore Steven Chambers
led W&L by ﬁnishing 40th out of 275

runners with a career—best time of
27:23.52. Junior Andy Schorr followed
closely behind at 27:31.60, good
enough for 45th place.

Freshman Molly Drake turned in
a career—best time of 20:09.55 in the
women’s competition, placing 25th
out of 278 runners. Senior Burke
Duncan’s time of 20: 15.76 gave her a
30th-place ﬁnish.

BY DONNY BANKS AND MICHAEL LEE
SPORTS WRITERS

The Washington and Lee field
hockey team improved to 7-7 on the
year with shutout home wins over
Sweet Briar and Rhodes this week.

W&L improved to 5-3 in the Old
Dominion Athletic Conference by de-
feating Sweet Briar 6-0 on Tuesday.

The Generals quickly established
their dominance, leading 2-0 at half-
time thanks to goals by freshman
midﬁelder S.B. Northen and junior
sweeper Maitena Moure.

Despite a turn for the worse in
the weather, W&L persevered and
continued to rack up goals. They
scored four more times before the
game ended with goals by sophomore
forward Ali Santoro, sophomore de-
fender Erin Rathbone, freshman
midﬁelder Jane Beall and Northen.

In addition, the team dominated
in shots and penalty comers (27—2 and
9-1 respectively), and the Generals
also commanded possession.

“We really played as a team,
which is something we struggled with
in our loss to Juniata (on Oct. 12),”
head coach Wendy Orrison said. “We
also displayed a lot of skill and
athleticism, which is essential to good

ball control on turf and in inclement
conditions.”

Moure, Rathbone, Santoro and
sophomores Kristen Brown and Kitt
Murphy all illustrated such teamwork by
recording assists for the Generals; Brown
ﬁnished with two. Freshman goaltender
Courtney Harrison played the entire game
in net to record the shutout.

Sunday’s ﬁeld hockey action saw
the Generals at work at home again, host-
ing Rhodes College. In a spectacular
blowout, W&L defeated the Lynx 5-0.

Five different Generals scored
during the game. Murphy broke the
ice with an unassisted goal with 27:40
remaining in the ﬁrst half. Moure added
the Generals’ second goal of the half,
also unassisted, with 15: 17 remaining.

The second half saw more bal-
anced offensive action. Northen
scored off an assist from Murphy.
Rathbone scored on a penalty circle,
assisted by Moure, and exchange stu-
dent Joanna Slack assisted junior for-
ward Kelly Taffe to round out the game.

Freshman goalies Courtney
Harrison and Elise Gelinas split time in
net for W&L, combining for one save,
while Rhodes freshman Alice Cowley
earned 11 saves during the game.

W&L travels to Rando1ph-Ma-
con for a 4:30 p.m. match Thursday.

Tuesday, Oct. 22

Wednesday, Oct. 23

Men’s Soccer

W&L at Eastern Mennonite,
4 p.m.

Thursday, Oct. 24

Field Hockey

W&L at Randolph-Macon,
4:30 p.m.

W&L SPORTS SCHEDULE: OCTOBER 21-27

women’s Swimming

Volleyball W&L at RMWC, 6:30 p.m.
B ‘d t t W&L, .
n 2363 grmé Friday, Oct. 25

Volleyball (at Maryville)
W&L vs. Sewanee, 4:30 p.m.
W&L vs. Huntingdon, 7 p.m.

Saturday, Oct. 26
Volleyball (at Maryville)
W&L vs. Thomas More, 10 a.m.
W&L at Maryvllle, 12:30 p.m.
Men’s Soccer

Va. Wesleyan at W&L, 11 a.m.

Football

Sewanee at W&L, 1 p.m.
Women's Soccer
Savannah Art & Design at

W&L, 3 p.m.
Fleld Hockey
St Mary’s at W&L, 3:30 p.m.

Sunday, Oct. 27

Field Hockey

W&L vs. Catholic, TBA
women’s Soccer
Goucher at W&L, 2 p.m.

Package Receiving
Fax Services
Notary Service

UPS-US MAIL-OVERNIGHT & INTERNATIONAL DELIVERY

We will package and/or send your items! We can make it easy to
get your things to and from school!

Pack and Mail

I I '
ailing Center
We offer a PICK UP SERVICE to help you ship items home.
CALL FOR MORE INFORMATION

Next to Subway on Nelson Street

463-7740

Package Storage
Supplies
Copies‘

W&L strugg es in 44-13 *

   

BY BARRETT DAWS
SPORTS WRITER

Washington and Lee football
suffered a 44-13 loss to the
Hampden-Sydney Tigers at Wilson
Field on Saturday.

The problems for the Generals
(2-4, 2-2 Old Dominion Athletic Con-
ference) started with the second
play, as Hampden-Sydney running
back C.W. Clemmons rushed for a
67-yard touchdown run to put the
Tigers ahead 6-0.

Hampden-Sydney (5-1, 3- 1)
would score twice more in the first
half for a 21-0 lead, and then scored
two more touchdowns and hit a ﬁeld
goal in the third to take a 38-0 ad-
vantage into the fourth quarter.

The Generals’ offense came
alive in the fourth quarter as junior
quarterback Sean McGarvey found
senior tight end Jay Thomas for two
touchdown receptions, one of 10
yards and the other 30.

Unfortunately for the Generals,
the game clock expired before the
offense could finish making its
charge. The Tigers also scored once
in the fourth quarter, making the 44-
13 ﬁnal.

Clemmons led the Hampden-
Sydney, rushing 11 times for 116

intwome

  

loss t Hampen-Sydney  

BARREIT D.\WS/ The Ring-/um Phi
LATE RALLY. Senior tight endjay Thomas caught two touchdown passes from

junior quarterback Sean McGarvey in the fourth quarter of Washington and
Lee’s 44-13 loss to Hampden-Sydney at \X/ilsori Field on Saturday.

3
yards and two touchdowns. Senior

quarterback Mac Russell completed
16-of-24 passes for 149 yards and
two touchdowns. At the receiving
end was junior wide receiver Conrad "
Singh, who caught seven balls for
76 yards and one touchdown.

The Tiger defense was carried
by senior defensive back Chris Scott, 5
who recorded two tackles and an in-
terception. For Scott, the intercep-
tion was the 18th of his career, tying
the ODAC record.

The Generals’ offense relied on ‘
Thomas, who made four catches for
80 yards and two touchdowns.
McGarvey completed l2—of-26
passes for 183 yards and both W&L ‘
touchdowns.

Senior tailback Chris Sullivan
contributed once again with 19 car-
ries for 55 yards. Sullivan also caught
ﬁve passes for 55 yards and returned ‘0
two kickoffs for 37 yards. His 147
all-purpose yards gave him 5,285 for
his career, breaking the W&L record
of 5,184 set by Marc Watson last '_
season.

Sophomore linebacker Lloyd
Wilson led the W&L defense with
12 tackles and a half-sack.

W&L returns to Wilson Field;
on Saturday for a 1 p.m. non-confer-
ence contest against Sewanee.

              n’s Sportswear,
     0uterw,car,r,aiidFly Fishing Products

N°WAvai1abl.s, inLexingt°nl
    lt§elTiiiieFl)"Fisliili:f3<0utfitteri S’ I ’

I ‘ _ 23,WestWas1iington St; " ’
_ i_ .”Lexington,VA 24450 if
  "462-6100 
' wvmrceltimcflyfishing.com,

    
   
   

  
 

  I-‘an iced:
necessaries  

wand’ M

  

   

 T" mlﬂcii 5':
Serving int?! mwmmgtgitl ma

F'IltI'ioQt}‘FEl-tSFl.tN&FE5TI‘JEGIF?*'.5

it GG1l_WtEl'5PEmL'l'£E5
D  _
II l1l'EBbIlt$éM1lT'l’SFE€IJlL1'IES

to trttttittﬁ €AllI'lIE5
at sttieﬁnrrttatmzttasis .
i Lt|.l£:HTElt&SlttII£S .

I3Ssutlt.:ltetalrrS£r£ltt;Lc.'dl1gtait. Wrgtm

540464-4433

 £9’? 45‘! 4413

FAX!-lOll~64:44.5-I

 

 ?
'5:
‘E
\
ux
§

xv’

1

1

1.
l
s
1
ti:
1
I

r l

,«.

l
i
1

;
t
l
s

1

:5

1"

 

ta E18-755
F2 552
\l- /05

.‘Good Morning
America’ says

goodbye for now

" National broadcast rescheduled for spring

 

PHI

  

JAMES G. LD‘IE;‘..§~i  - «-
WASi-€it%W%*?T:I't 3.  
 I '3 9'   :f:».v45-o

OCT 3 ‘I 2092

VOLUME CV, No.XIl
MONDAY, OCTOBER 28, 2002

The rrrrderrr voice of Warhrrgror and lire Urrrrerrzh rirrre 7897 CD Orr/irre at: 12>/92122//rr.m’rr

FROM STAFF REPORTS

Camera-happy students and residents may have
' to put away their makeup and hairbrushes until spring.
ABC’s ‘Good Morning America’ has temporarily re-
scheduled its Nov. 11 Lexington broadcast for the

spring.

Last Wednesday, the broadcasting company re-
scheduled the Lexington show from its Nov. 11 live
date because of the recent sniper threats and killings in

the Virginia area, officials said.

Lexington was originally chosen to represent the
state of Virginia in the ‘SO States—One Nation-One Year’
series because of its historic roots, many 18th— and
19th-century buildings, well—preserved Main Street,
and views of the Blue Ridge and Allegheny mountains,

ABC ofﬁcials said.

The spring broadcast should mirror the planned
Nov. 11 show including live interviews with students
and faculty members from Washington and Lee Uni-
versity and Virginia Military Institute, Lexington resi-
dents and taped segments from other parts of the

state.

Ofﬁcials were uncertain at press time whether last
Thursday’s arrests of John Allen Muhammad and John
Lee Malvo in connection with the Virginia, Maryland
and Washington, D.C. sniper shootings will affect their
recent decision to postpone the Lexington broadcast
of ‘Good Morning America.’ Afinal decision should be
made this week as to when the taping will be made and

broadcast.

BY ANDREW LATIMER
NEWS EDITOR

When is five minutes not ﬁve minutes?
Students here might be surprised to learn

ton Hall. Hourly bells are timed using
Lee Chapel’s AC—powered clock

equipment.

Power outages can knock both sys-
tems off the mark, even though both

Record numbers rid Pare eekend

JEE BROOKS / The Ring-/um P/ii

CROONED. “Soundrnan” Bobby Smith sang along with members of Right On, the band that entertained parents, students
and faculty during the school—sponsored tailgate activity Saturday afternoon before the football game against Sewanee. The
tailgate was one of many activites students and parents could attend during the 48th Parents Weekend at W&L.

Campus clocks toll irregul

   

erly

BY MmHEW MCDERMOIT
EDITOR IN CHIEF

 

‘ JEB BROOKS / The Ring-tum P/ii
RICE. Nelly Rice has helped plan Parents Weekend for 11 years

BY ANDREW LATIMER
NEWS raorrorr

The 48th Parents Weekend, successful from 1955,
acheived an unusally large draw of 2,500 family members
this year, said coordinator Nellie Rice, secretary to the
Dean of Students.

“There were a lot of parents there,” said junior Victoria
Guroian, who saw many of the 1,100 families that regis-
tered in Fairfax Lounge. “Everything seemed to go
smoothly, thanks to (Rice).”

Rice has coordinated Parents Weekend since 1991,
when the Dean of Students Office took over its planning
from the Development Office.

Guroian was one of approximately 20 students who
helped Rice and the Dean of Students Ofﬁce with the event.

“I probably couldn’t do it without the students,” Rice said.

Tlieﬁeshmenclassboastedtlrelargestnurnberofatteridees.

“I’m excited. My parents are on their way. We’re go-
ing to cocktail parties and they are going to meet my ad-
viser,” said freshman Cameron Todd.

Not all freshmen were thrilled by their parents’ appearance.

“A few [freshmen] are worried about what their par-
ents are going to see,” said Dorm Counselor Robert Floyd.
“In general, it’s just a weekend for students to show their
parents around campus and Lexington.”

“It looks like everyone really enjoyed themselves this
year,” Rice said.

HRA spearheads ood drive

Former-BFA works to raise two ions of food for needy local families

sororities. It also obtained Dean of Students
David Howison’s permission to label the event
an ofﬁcial W&L activity.

 

 

that the traditional hourly chimes of Lee
Chapel do not necessarily make them late
Q for class.

The Ring-tum Phi has learned that
two sets of bells that students and fac-
ulty alike rely upon for the beginning and
end of class are neither on the same sys-
tem nor regularly synchronized to one an-
other.

Informal observations conducted
by this newspaper show that the inter-
: val between rings varies from 3 min. and
30 sec. to 3 min. 50 see. from day to
day.

Most students may not notice the sec-
onds slipping away each day, but a number
of them have had doubts about the bells’
accuracy for some time.

“They never ring on time. I think
this is important. Such little details are
4; important in the smooth operation of

our daily lives,” said sophomore Ivan
Velev.

The five—till bell, which sounds si-

multaneously from the top of Washing-

" ton Hall and in the academic buildings

to signify the end of a class period, is

controlled by equipment in Washing-

systems have backup provisions in
place.

For years, Physical Plant was respon-
sible for setting both systems. Yet a com-
puterized timer replaced when the old
chime mechanism in Lee Chapel in Aug.
1998, the duty of monitoring the chapel
fell upon University Computing Technical
Services.

Technical Services reports that com-
plaints were received “all the time” be-
fore the overhaul four years ago. No offi-
cial grumblings have been heard by Tech-
nical Services since the replacement.

Technical Services also recognizes
that the Lee Chapel clock has been 35 sec.
slow for about a month. Errors greater than
one minute are usually corrected within a
few days. Any adjustments have to be
made manually.

The staff sets the Chapel bells against
Universal Coordinated Time, not against
Washington Hall’s system.

No plans have been made to synchro-
nize the ﬁve-minute and hourly bells. For
the time being, students and faculty will
have to pick one chime or the other to gov-
ern their lives.

jizri BROOKS / Tire Ring-/um P/11'
FOR WHOM THE BELL TOLIS. Lee Chapel’s bells
misguide harried students hurrying to class.

Area families in want may be getting a tur-
key and a month’s worth of food, if the Human
Rights Alliance gets the volunteers it needs.

The Human Rights Alliance, recently
known as the Black Female Alliance, is embark-
ing on a Thanksgiving food drive to benefit
needy people in Lexington and Buena Vista.

“The point is community building, not just
W&L students, but all of the community ben-
efiting the needy community,” said junior
Melanie Barr, the HRA member who is coordi-
nating the effort.

The HRA is working with the local NAACP
chapter, the Catholic Campus Ministry, and the
N abors Services League. Rockbridge High
School should also soon join the food drive,
now that Principal Andrew Bryan has approved
its participation. Also Eric Owsley, community
service coordinator, and Harlan Beckley, Shep-
herd Poverty Program director, “have given us
sound advice,” Barr said.

Though planning began last summer, an
Oct. 30th event will kickoff the drive.

There HRA members will answer remaining
questions and solicit funds and volunteers.

To prepare the ground, however, the HRA
has sent letters to the president of every stu-
dent organization, including fraternities and

“Our goal is to supply a month’s worth of
food to every family,” Barr said. This includes
the traditional Thanksgiving turkey.

Planning was intense for this event, which
is expected to encompass over 3,000 homes.

HRA members poured over street maps of
Lexington and Buena Vista, marking down
houses and dividing them into routes. In No-
vember each house on the route will receive a
paper bag and a ﬂyer announcing the pick-up
date. I
On that day, volunteers will collect the
canned goods and bring them to the Nabors
Sefvice Suite in Gaines, where they will be sorted.
The HRA will have asked local churches to pro-
vide the names of needy families. These farrrilies
will receive the accumulated food.

Any surplus food will be given to local food
banks.

“We want this to become an annual event,”
Barr said. The HRA, however, does not neces-
sarily have to run the program in the future.

“This could make a great high school pro-
gram,” Barr said. “Or another club could direct it
next year.”

HRA member Marinda Harrell modeled the
program on a similar one run by at her Baltimore
high school, Archbishop Carroll.

Democrats

increase activism

University Compuling gives no hurrahs to KaZaA

BY KATIE ]. HOWELL
EDITOR IN CHIEF

Washington and Lee students
continued to show their interest in
political activism last week when more
than 80 students signed up to be part
of the rejuvenated Young Democrats
organization.

“(Young Democrats is a neces-
sary organization) for this campus
especially because (the campus) is
so traditionally conservative,” said
sophomore Joanna Persio, Young
Democrats’ current organizer. “You
can’t learn much on a campus
where one political group is as
prominent as College Republicans
is at W&L.”

Persio said, however, that the
large numbers of students in-
volved with College Republicans
this year is what spurred the new
interest in Young Democrats, as
opposed to interest in recent
years.

“When the report came out
with the huge numbers of students
interested in College Republicans, I
think people realized the need for
varying opinions and activism,”
Persio said.

Persio said she began organizing
potential members after speaking with
past officers of the political group.
They encouraged her to seek interest
from the W&L community. Using cam-
pus notices, ﬂyers and a table at the
Co-op, Persio and other interested
students gathered names and ideas
from potential members.

Persio said 87 students
signed up to be a part of the or-
ganization.

“We had a really good re-
sponse,” she said. “We weren’t ex-
pecting nearly that many people to
sign up.”

The democrat political organi-
zation historically has been active
on the W&L campus. Persio said
Dean Courtney Penn was a member

when he was a student in the early
1990s.

Young Democrats plans to in-
crease activism this year by helping
with Mimi Elrod’s campaign for the
24th District Virginia House of Del-
egates election on Nov. 5. Persio said
they also plan to start a democratic
publication on campus.

“We would also like to do
some joint activities with College
Republicans,” Persio said. “We
want to go together before the EC
to try to get the rule changed so
we can get money for political or-
ganizations on campus. We also
might have a joint golf tourna-
ment.”

Persio said the group will have
more structure and ideas after their
first organizational meeting on
Wednesday.

“We need to get the demo-
cratic opinion out there so we are
not all republican all the time,”
Persio said.

BY ANDREW LATIMER
NEWS EDITOR

File sharing continues to clog the university’s con-
nection to the Internet, but not in the way most students
might think.

The problem is not downloading music and movies,
according to University Computing Directory of Techni-
cal Services Thomas Tinsley ’75.

“What we do care about is students offering their
ﬁles to the world at the expense of our bandwidth,” he
said. His concern is that students are granting access to
too many outsider users.

The problem could soon approach last year’s emer-
gency levels, mostly due to the latest version of the
popular file swapping application dubbed KaZaA.

Last fall, University Computing implemented a
$15,000 system, called Packeteer, to limit the amount of
the network that students could use to share files. The
measures led to slower download speeds and some frus-
trated students, but overall network performance im-
proved.

“Our goal has been to make the connection useful
to the university,” Tinsley said. ’

The new KaZaA 2.0 masks its ﬁles as World Wide
Web data to skirt the university restrictions. T insley

currently estimates that 60 percent of all outgoing traffic
can be traced back the new KaZaA.

Some abusers can hog up to 16 percent of the
system without knowing it. University Computing can
keep track of the top 20 offenders and occasionally
sends e-mails to students that tell them to cut back
their usage.

University Computing HelpDesk employee Jason
Williams, senior, said that even experienced computer
users can be fooled by the tricky KaZaA. “(It) is just one
step away from a virus,” he stated.

Williams recently developed a program that he hopes
will alleviate the network’s congestion woes.

The patch, which is available for download at http:/
/helpdesk.wlu.edu, automatically conﬁgures KaZaA in
order to free up the most bandwidth. Installing the appli-
cation is voluntary but highly encouraged if you run-
ning the updated KaZaA.

“It’s kind of ridiculous that we’re bringing (the net-
work) to its knees,” Williams said.

Other help might be on the way. Forthcoming up-
dates to the university’s Packeteer system should cut
down on traffic.

Washington and Lee University has not made file
sharing illegal, and Tinsley did not indicate that policies
will drastically change any time soon.

 

 

PAGE 2



GSA crusade a worthy enterprise

Washington and Lee’s Gay-Straight Alli-
ance has avoided many mistakes that similar
organizations at other colleges have fallen
prey to:

It is not a recruiting organ for homosexu-
ality.

It does not urge Admissions to admit a
certain quota of altematively-oriented indi-
viduals.

It does not go out of its way to offend the
school’s conservative social mores, perhaps
by holding a gaudy parade outside of registra-
tion for Parents Weekend.

Rather, GSA hopes that W&L students
will become more accepting of their peers who
have decided to be more open about their pref-
erences.

Few people would claim that W&L’s stu-
dent culture suffers from heterogeneity run
amuck. Many of the standard jokes revolve
around our carbon-copy cars, clothes and cus-
toms. This is not an nonconforrnist student
body.

Often, however, these similarities are
adopted for convenience: students paper-over
differences to ward off potential opprobrium.
Sexual preference is the clearest example of this.

Is it possible that out of 1700 undergradu-
ates, not one is gay? Not even one bisexual?
Not even one questioning if he is? Don’t be
ridiculous. W&L has homosexuals and bisexu-
als, there’re just in the closet.

Sadly, there are many pragmatic reasons
for this. How many gays could rush a sorority
or fraternity? How many close friends could
they make? How many could head mainstream
campus organizations?

Let us remember what happened when it
came out during election time that Jeff Cook,
prospective Executive Committee president,
was gay. He had to endure a candidate’s
“teletubbies” comments and his promise “to
be straight” with his supporters.

You do not need to approve of homosexu-
ality, either personally or religiously. However,
just because a majority disagrees with a group
does not translate to a right to impose their
preferences on them.

For instance, a majority at W&L drinks
regularly. That does not mean that binge-drink-
ers should round up teetotalers and force them
to quaff pints of brew. Likewise undergradu-
ate Carry A. Nations should not swarm fra-
ternity houses with hatchets.

The GSA is asking for tolerance, an admi-
rable goal. There is no reason why the W&L
student body should not want the entire com-
munity to feel comfortable during a happy four
years here.

This is not about some administrator collect-
ing another minority group for an admissions bro-
chure. Rather, it is about being civil enough that
sexual orientation ceases to matter at all.

 

THE  

Editors in chief Matthew B. McDem1ott
Katie J. Howell
Andrew Latimer
Irnran Naeemullah
Catherine C. Guy
Jeremy Franklin
Dave Crowell

J eb Brooks
Barrett Daws
Tallie Jamison
Paul Seifert
Thomas Worthy
Emily Barker
Henry Grimball
McQueen Calvert

News Editor
Opinions Editor
Arts & Life Editor
Sports Editor
Asst. Sports Editor
Photo Editor
Photographers

Business Manager
Asst. Business Manager
Advertising Production

Circulation Director
Advertising Assistant

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee Univer-
sity, Lexington, Virginia. The Washington and Lee Publi-
cations Board elects the Editors in chief, but The Ring-
tum Phi is otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible submis-
sions and letters. AH submissions must be e-mailed to
phi@wlu.edu or in the University Center mailbox by 5
p.m. Friday to appear in the following week’s edition. The
Ring-tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for con-
tent and length. Letters and columns do not necessarily
reﬂect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Ad-
vertising does not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi
or its staff. This newspaper observes current court deﬁni-
tions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Mailing Address: University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Street Address: 31 Washington Street
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Fax: (540) 462-4059
Email: phi@wlu.edu
http://phi.wlu.edu

Annual Subscription Rate: $35

THE RING-TUM PH].

PINIONS

DIVERSITY: Is it for Washington and Lee?—

L\lR\NNILlLiH
OPINIONS EDITOR
EMA11; NAEntrrrAH1@wrrE)Ul

MONDAY, OCTOBER 28, 2002

Although the 20th century was generally one of great change for Washington and Lee, especially with the advent of coeducation in 1985 , few issues

have been as controversial or as hotly debated as the “diversity question.” Some feel that the above question is redundant because diversity is.’

imperative; their opponents counter that diversity is unnecessary. Still others feel that while diversity is important, the definition of what constitutes
“diversity” varies. The Ring-tum Phi invites the W&L community to further discuss and analyze diversity, and its value at the university.

EC allocates excessive funds to minorities

Several weeks ago, when we when
looked at the campus groups that had been
given funding by the Executive Committee,
the ﬁrst thing that most of us undergradu-
ates asked was, “What is SBA,” then a few
days or weeks later we ﬁgired out that it is
the Student Bar Association and we under-
stood that law students make up a signiﬁ-
cant portion of the school; law students pay
the same student activity fees that we
do.Then, we moved on with our lives.

certain identiﬁable, if not exclusionary, group
that I make this argument.

No group asking for funding with an ex-
clusionary title such as General’s Christian
Fellowship or College Republicans was given
any funding at all. This is despite the fact that
these are two of the largest organizations on
campus. Some would justly reply that the MSA
is using this funding in order to help encour-
age diversity on campus, not for their social
gatherings, which are funded by a member-

As we continued to ship fee of $30. However, one
look at the budget allo— FREE THOUGHTS must ask “What keeps Campus
cations, since both the Republicans from bringing in
Phi and the Trident re— RYAN OWEN ‘03 their own speakers?”Iwouldbe

ported them in various
ways over three weeks, not to mention a Carn-

pus Notice or two, we realized that most of

the groups receiving a high level of funding
such as the Student Activities Board and
Contact, are appointed by the Executive Com-
mittee which is elected by the Student Body
or chosen by professors like Mock Conven-
tion. I even checked with EC President and
third-year law student Gerald Titus to see how
the leadership of SBA is determined. Ifound
out that their classmates elect them. There is
one organization that received an extraordi-
narily high level of frmding, yet is not of a
broad interest to this campus, nor is it elected
or appointed by anyone, the Minority Stu-
dent Association (MSA).

The MSA was given $14,500 in order to
fund their programming events and Caba-
ret. This is the fifth largest funding given to
any group on campus. Each student pays a
Student Activities Fee of $87.50 per semes-
ter or, $175 a year. The portion of this fee
that is currently going to MSA is about $7.25.

Aside from this “Student Activity Fee”
support from the Executive Committee, the
MSA receives direct support the from the
university in various forms, including the
Chavis House on Lee Avenue. They have
failed to “fill the house” this year. If any
fraternity were in this situation, it would be
asked to reimburse the university for the
empty beds. One might point to a sort of
social engineering at work in order to ex-
plain this apparent discrepency.

Some people on the Washington and
Lee Campus, particularly minorities, will criti-
cize me for making an argument directed at a
group of certain identiﬁable persons. Don’t
be mistaken. I fault the Executive Committee
for giving such a large portion of our scarce
funding to such a group just as much as I
fault that group for asking for “around
$20,000.” It is for the reason that they are a

hard for the EC to prove that they
have not given “a leg up” in the form of guid-
ance to the MSA when they have submitted
their budget requests in the past. Perhaps if
fraternities and political organizations had the
same assistance we could divert student ac-
tivity fees to these groups as well.

Need I remind everyone that we already
have organizations like PRIDE, the Gay-
StraightAl1iance, KEWL, and SAII_. who serve
similar functions with a much smaller budget,
yet these groups usually experience much
larger and more diverse attendance? How can
the Executive Committee really justify that the
campus needs so much diversity education

"that we spend 108 students’ student activity

fees for this purpose.

Most students feel that bringing public
speakers to campus is a function already well
served by Contact. Even Contact must won-
der why MSA was given so much funding
to bring in diversity speakers when bring-
ing in diverse speakers was one of their
goals for the year as well. Contact has more
experience recruiting quality speakers than
does MSA, not to mention that they are
much better at promoting and attracting an
audience. Please note that the last speaker
MSA brought to campus, Ruben Everett, for
Hispanic Heritage Month did not have a
large turnout according to Kaela Harmon,
vice president of MSA. Nor does their big-
ger armual Black History Month speaker.
Also, know that MSA declined to tell me
what their expenses were in bringing Mr.
Everett to campus, as they also declined to
let me see their budget request form, which
they submitted to the Executive Committee
when asking for funding. When consider-
ing the budgets of Contact and MSA it seems
that quite a lot of “activity” money coming
from the “Student Activity Fee” just goes to
the activity of sitting around listening to
other people talk.

Change must come from students

World peace—we all want it, but now
more than ever, it seems more beyond our
reach with all the conflicts wreaking havoc
both in the United States and in other na-
lions. Why is there so much unrest? It oc-

curs to me that when you get to the root of

these issues, the underlying reasons for
these conﬂicts seems to be a

the gays; it is because we are a group of
ignorant people, myself included. Every-
body stereotypes everybody else, and
that is perfectly norrnal—it is human na-
ture. However, it is not normal to play
on these prejudices. It is absolutely nec-
essary to get all the facts straight before

transforming a simple

strong depreciation of other TRAN OF THOUGHT temporary stereotype
cultures and people, thereby ‘ into a permanent label
a deep displacency for diver- TRAN KIM  of a person’s character.

sity. In Bosnia, Rwanda,

Croatia, the Middle East-—in most of the
conﬂicts ravaging people around the world,
the problems arise from irreconcilable eth-
nic, religious, and cultural differences. Death
and destruction seem to be the going price
for humanity’s inability to recognize and
value the presence of differences in society.
It is too high a price.

As concerned as I am about the lack of

diversity in the world forum, I am more pre-
occupied with how this issue affects the
W&L campus. Over the recent years, diver-
sity has become the forefront of discussions
pertaining to the changes occurring at W&L.
It is no secret that W&L has an unfortunate
and slightly over-exaggerated reputation of
being a campus where minorities and the
“different” people are not welcomed by
open arms. Past occurrences such as the
Idaho t-shirt and the black faces incidences
attest to this notion. However, I would con-
sider these to be the extreme examples of
prejudicial ignorance here and highly doubt
that it represents the majority of the student
body. Over the years many changes have
occurred on the W&L campus to mitigate
the negative consequences of being a mi-
nority (this refers to being a minority in ev-
ery area, not just in race). But W&L still has
a long ways to go before it can truly be la-
beled a diverse campus.

The main problem with the lack of di-
versity here is not that the whites don’t
like the blacks or the straights don’t like

We are here to
learn, and as students and as young
adults, this is one of the most important
learning periods of our lives. The col-
lege—years have been deemed as an im-
portant period in life where people ﬁnd
themselves to ﬁgure out how they fit
into this big world. One of the lessons
we are here to learn is about mankind.
This involves investigation and research
through interaction and experience. You
cannot possibly know a person or any-
thing about that person without having
interacted with that individual yourself.
Word of mouth is 99 percent opinion and
possibly one percent factual. Just like
we wouldn’t easily believe someone’s
word that D-hall food is gourmet cook-
ing, we should not easily believe that
someone is “weir 

The W&L faculty and adrninistra—
tion can take as many measures as nec-
essary to increase diversity and thereby
increase students’ value for it, but the
majority of the work lies with us, the stu-
dent body. In the real world, different
people from various backgrounds must
work and live together. Being able to do
this means having the foresight and wis-
dom to be open-rninded and personally
motivated to learn about others. It is a
foolish thing to not acquire the skill of
valuing others because we are con-
stantly in contact with other people. And
none of us wants to be a fool.

1’

.53 T?

(I)LRIEB\'('At\ﬂlH.lPE\XlL‘Hld

OVERREPRESENTED. Despite serving a small percentage of W&L’s population, the MSA receives
high  It usurps funds other campus groups with similar aims deserve to receive.

I carmot argue that the funding given
to MSA for the Jazz Cabaret they sponsor
in February of each year was not dutifully
allocated. This is an event, which is well
established and serves a larger portion of
the W&L student body. Since MSA would
not really tell me much about their bud-
get, I can’t say how much they spend on
this event, but I believe somewhere around
$1000 would be justiﬁable, keeping the
budgets of other organizations in mind.

In order to try and delve into the
psyche of the EC, I asked Gerald Titus,
“How much do you consider the size of a
group when allocating funding?” He went
so far as to tell me that EC “does consider
a student organization’s size” when mak-
ing allocations. In order to justify funding
to smaller organizations, he went on to say
that the EC must also look at other factors
such as: the organization’s providing a criti-
cal services that would not otherwise be
met, how many students the organization
serves, and the “organization’s financial
responsibility and the utility with which
they have used the money the EC has given
them in the past.”

I don’t agree that the Minority Stu-
dent Association really fulﬁlls any of the
considerations the EC President men-
tioned. The “critical service” that the MSA
is serving by bringing speakers to campus
is being met by Contact. The organization
is not serving very many students as at-

tendance at their events proves. Despite hav- ’
ing been given a consistently high level of
funding, MSA’s event programming has not
proven itself to be of great utility, and their
unwillingness to share their budget request,
or any spending information forces me to call
into question their responsibility.

I do believe that MSA is a necessary
group for the minority students of this carn-
pus, especially with regards to their social‘
activities. Everyone should know that their
dues, not EC allocations, pay for these activi-
ties. I strongly feel that we should not deny
support to this organization, but at the same
time, I quite possibly feel even more strongly
that we should not entrust to them and rely
so heavily upon them to bring diverse speak-
ers to campus.

I don’t want this article to be just an—l'
other criticism that doesn’t offer a solution to
anyone other than, people who created the
problem, so here are two things that each and
every W&L student can do. First of all, let
Gerald Titus and the other members of the EC
know that you don’t support the way the Ex-
ecutive Committee is currently allocating your
student activities fees. Secondly, consider this
issue when the White Book Review Comrnit- 74
tee calls for student suggestions later this
year, as they amend the powers and respon-
sibilities of the Executive Committee. Person-
ally, I feel it would be better to have separate
bodies governing our honor system and our '
budgetary allocations.

F

MSA is best vehicle for diversity .

Washington and Lee prides itself
on its academic standards, civility
and building of one’s character. A di-
versity initiative, as it should be, is a
part of this institution’s mission.

At a meeting of the Committee
for a More Inclusive
Community in late
May, I had the privi-

VOICE or DIFFERENCE
MEREDITH KING ‘O3

is geographically, socially, and eco-
nomically diverse but uniﬁed as “an
aristocracy of talent.” It imposes no
other barriers to admission. ‘
The way I interpret this statement
is diversity is an essential component
of a liberal arts edu-
cation——it means’
understanding,

lege of hearing Presi-
dent Tom Burish’s view on diversity
in a speech entitled “Challenging
Tradition Respectfully.” The three
main points of his talk:

1. Diversity is a civic obliga-
tion that W&L should adopt;

2. A W_&L education should
permeate all segments of society; and

3. Diversity is an essential com-
ponent of a liberal arts education.

As I listened to Dr. Burish, I was
struck by the fact that our views are
very much in alignment. His com-
ments warmed my heart and reaf-
firmed my faith in this great institu-
tion. I am most impressed with Dr.
Burish’s awareness of the need for
institutions such as W&L to be all-
inclusive, especially since the demo-
graphics of our nation are changing
so rapidly. He exhibited a genuine
concern for all students here at W&L.

Diversity is a civic obligation,
not only for administrators, profes-
sors, and staff members at W&L, but
the entire student body. When we re-
ceived our acceptance letters, the
university’s expectations were crys-
tal clear. Contained in the college’s
mission is the following: Washington
and Lee is selective in its enrollment
of students. It chooses young men
and women with the highest quali-
ties of intellect, character, and the
promise offuture achievement, and
it seeks to create a student body that

communicating, and
appreciating all individuals and soci-
ety at large. As a private institution,
W&L sets academic standards that?‘
public institutions strive to attain. In
this respect, should not W&L set a
diversity standard for all institutions,
whether public or private? I think so!’

The Minority Student Association
is a vehicle in which W&L can remain
focused on fulfilling its commitment
to diversity. Though the university is
making many strides in this area, thereﬂ
is still much work left undone.
Through the financial support MSA
receives, we can be proactive in
bringing in guest speakers and offer-
ing cultural and social events that will
help to increase awareness.

We all must work toward appreciat-
ing and being aware of the differences
that certain populations of students!
bring to the college, recognizing that stu-
dents may encounter unique challenges
in higher education because of race, gen-
der, age, social class, sexual orientation,
and physical ability. Everyone in an aca—‘
demic environment must be committed
to removing the barriers that can prevent
members of underrepresented groups
from completing their baccalaureate dew
gree in a timely and efficient manner.

If, in your opinion that is wrong, I
offer no apologies. However, as W&L
scholars, we should be willing to work
toward promoting openness and ac-
ceptance of all, despite differences.

 

      
  
 
  
 
   
       
 
 
  

”' A. . ' » _ 'Fhe"newfWash.ingm.n Fast %E1ect.ro.nic E:iiticm_Li.s tiie perfect way as get The Past when yi:~u'1ive c-:'.1ts:i»de the % ' _V  
4 "heme deliveryr area... "when §mu*Ife at »sch.oaI_... and when you %s.ti3;I want ts »e.r1jc3r.zhe leak, fee and.c:o_ruext.
(if The Pxzstfs p '.nt.-ed: 331.. ’  ’  .,

  

Ge-t.i:de1ivea*e~d_ di gtaliy ta your‘computer or map first :31 lfkg every 111.0‘
" _ ' ' aarm, ufﬁce, anywhere. ‘ A 4 L

     

 

 

 

   

   

' .ike‘1"h£.-. ?os1¢: because it is The Fast. ‘ V V ‘ _ »  _ 
‘ 3- tal repiiaé at the riayﬁa ‘print ediﬁen. * 1
' {nciudas articies, photos, -mniumniﬁts, —ccamic:s, graph "as aw ads. A   
n
V Searchahie and 1'1t.aracﬁ’ve.. — . _ _ ' -  ._ _.
, h See haw right the  :3 ing feels wiath. The Was'hi::gmn Po1st.d.eli1irerev:i yﬁur way; —ev§=ry d.ay..  . L * % 7

v ' y .

. an on: more abut Te washing”: ms: %&eI:tmIic Edam       A
incl may now you wt get it FREE for IweTweehs—at    %      4

  Imn=I .wasII ea sun

A _ X7’

 

 

PAGE 4

 
 

Chinese nationalism burns ﬁercely

Last weekend was crowded with touring of
Beijing’s tourist hot spots. Naturally, we paid a visit
to the square, squat, just plain ugly Chairman Mao
Mausoleum. Rumor is that, in fact, the uninspiring
building completely ruins Tiananmen Square’s feng
shui. Nonetheless, tens of thousands of Chinese line
up everyday to file past the corpse in its crystal coffin
and worship at the altar of government-encouraged
Mao worship. Later that day, we visited a wax museum
on the other side of the square that boasted a likeness
of Mao. Now, I certainly wouldn’t question the
authenticity of the body in the “Mao-soleum,” but,
after 26 years on display, the corpse looks a whole lot
like the wax statue across the street.

Another stop on our whirlwind tour of the city was
the Great Hall of the People, where the Communist Party
meets for its quintennial congresses. As an aside, if you’re
interested in a fun location for the next family reunion, it
has been rented out to foreign groups for
conventions.

The tour of the Great Hall mainly
snakes through halls in which the
provincial and province-level city officials meet during
the Congresses. Each is decorated with images of
animals, landmarks or products unique to the province.
All tolled, there are 31 of the halls, one each for China’s
26 provinces, plus the four autonomous cities and one
for Taiwan.

Naturally, the hall for Taiwan sits empty because the
virtually independent island sends no delegates to
meetings of the Chinese Communist Party. Sunday, I
departed for an excursion to Tibet. The situations of these
two independent nations, one under the boot of
communist oppression, the other not, yet, led me to
consider the problem of Chinese nationalism.

Unlike during Mao’s rule, the Chinese people, even
party members, are, by and large, not inspired by the CPC.
In fact, our professors are pleased to point out how free
one is to criticize the Party and do so frequently.

However, they never give an inch in conceding China’s
greatness or superiority. Today, it is not revolutionary
zeal that inspires the masses, but a firm belief in China’s
role as the “Middle Kingdom” and a ﬁerce desire to see
her economically, rriilitary and culturally atop the world.
The CPC continues to rule because its success with the
economic reforms and spectacles such as the Olympics
has convinced most Chinese that one—party rule is the

LIVE FROM BEIJING of the last
BREIT T. KIRWAN ‘04

This jingoism manifests itself most troublingly in Tibet
and Taiwan. Tibet, previous to 1955, was an autonomous
country essentially ruled by the Dalai Lama. But whatever
it was, it was most certainly not a province of China.
Nonetheless, Mao sent in the PLA to subjugate the nation
and to this day, the legitimate government of Tibet and
the Dalai Lama live in exile. Buddhist temples throughout
Beijing, many of which are maintained by the government
to preserve a facade of “religious freedom,” all proclaim
that the temples are examples of the long history and
inseparability of Tibet from the rest China. In a way, tl1ey’re
right on both counts. China and Tibet share a long history
of being neighbors and Tibet will be inseparable as long
as the Communist Party maintains an occupying army.

Taiwan is a more complicated issue because it is
not now ruled by Beijing and operates as a free and
independent nation. In fact, Taiwan came under
Chinese administration only in 1683 and has been ruled

directly by the mainland in only four
hundred years.
Nonetheless, the communist
despots, eager to control the $260
billion foreign trade that moves through Taiwan each
year, have declared the contre-temps a “domestic”
issue and continue to amass troops and missiles
across the Straits of Formosa. A favorite tactic is to
conduct “missile tests” over the island to
splashdowns only miles from Taiwan’s shore and,
although a large-scale amphibious invasion is highly
unlikely, the CPC will not back down until it’s bullying
has forced the freely elected Taiwanese government
to negotiate unification.

Chinese watchers much more experienced than I,
especially John Derbyshire of National Review, point
out that, although there is no love for the CPC among
the Chinese populace, it fully supports the
government’s efforts to oppress Tibet and conquer
Taiwan. Contrary opinions noting the practical and/or
historical independence of these regions is met with
purple-faced, foaming rage. The Chinese simply won’t
accept that they have a right to control both Tibet and
Taiwan.

While Jiang Zemin is visiting his Texas ranch this
week, President Bush has the opportunity to state that we
will not permit the Communist Chinese to continue to
oppress Tibet and bully Taiwan. Let’s hope that,
emboldened by the success of his tough talk to Iraq, he

delivers this message to the Chinese.

 ‘Br LIFE

ARlS&LlFEEl)l'l0R
EMAr;ciIYr@wIII.EI1I
MONDAY, OCTOBER 28, 2002

You are my one and only...in the area code, that is

 Sofar, Fvewrittentwo
articles for the Phi, and the student
response has been entirely positive.
However, I realize that the reactions of
faculty, parents, and alumni who read
thispaper mightditferfnomthoseenrolled
in Greek Central. So for those of you
that may be annoyed, disgusted, or
insulted by my ar1icle (though I’m not
sure why), let me say that I am writing
something college-appropriate. I am
not trying to be a smut—peddler or cause
Robert E. Lee to roll around in his grave
— I simply wish to give my version of
college advice while poking a little ﬁm
at life here. So if you
disapprove of my
article for whatever
reason, I apologize.
Otherwise, enjoy this week’s discourse
on that wonderful manipulative strategy:
the Area-Code Rule.

The summer months are a glorious
time. It’s a time for us to relax with our
families, to make money for the school
year, and to chill withfriends from pre-
college years. Andofcourse,thestn'nmer
is when we can spend quality tirrie with
that “signiﬁcant other” at home. It’s a
slowtimeofyearfilledwithromanceand
devotion and sappy Disney-type
relationships. (insert ‘sigh’ here)

Then September rolls around, and
everything changes. We all roll into Lex
Vegas, the sin-city of the Greek system,
and chaos ensues. While your
“signiﬁcant other” waits by the phone,
you go to fraternity frmctions on four
nights a week, and inevitably, you ﬁnd
someone who catches your fancy. Arid
thenyouﬁndyourselfinthatclassicmoral
dilemma, and what mightbe the equation
for eventual emotional torment: 2

ABSOLUTE FRAILORI)
TIM SMITH ‘04

rnanbers of the opposite sex + rxevious
commitment + long-distance
accountability + alcoholic inﬂuence =
overall bad feelings and painful
emotional scarring. It’s not always that
dramatic, but you can see how bad

“thingscouldcornefromsuchasituatiorr
Luckily, the college powers-that-be
have created a savior which allows us
to avoid him and humiliation and have
unparalleled fun at both home and
school — the Area-Code Rule.

With the Area-Code Rule, you

can free yourself of the baggage of
long-distance commitment, and
have healthy,
e n j o y a b l e
relationships with
the opposite sex
guilt-free.

Butalltoooften,tliistheoryis
abused Guys and giris are both guilty
of taking distance for granted, believing
they can do what they wish with
whomever they wish. They discard
accountability, and believe they can get
away with anything. Then they wonder
whythingsgowiong. ’I‘hesearethe
sleaze-balls thatfriends warn you about,
the ones with no loyalty or respect for
others, andthe ones who take advantage
offolkswhoaiejusttootrusting.

Don’t be like them.

The key to successfully using the
Area-Code rule lies in cormnunication.
It’s a simple concept. Talk to that
‘signiﬁcaiitothei’
More often than not, college kids think
alike—wedon’tliketoputourselvesin
 circmnstances, and we want to
lmve a good time whenever possible.
'I‘he important factor is whether or not
this “good time” is kepthidden.

Consider this successful Area-
CodeRulestory. GuyXandGiiiYhave
dated through high school, and go to
different colleges. Guy X and Girl Y
care for each other, but want the
freedom to explore options in college.
Guy X and Girl Y communicate this, and
agree to stay in a relationship while
letting each other do their own thing at
school. So Guy X and Girl Y have ﬁm
at school , then come home for the
summer with their relationship intact
and unblemished. Their feelings have
survived, and they haven’t had to live
in a box to keep the relationship strong.

(How simple is that? Seriously, it
makes me all warm and fuzzy inside.

Obviously, you take risks when you
enter into these Area-Code agreements,
but it’s all part of the game. Ifyou want
the guiltless option to have relationship
freedom at school, you have to be
prepared for your “signiﬁcant other” to
meet someone who is iriore signiﬁcant

‘thanyou 'Ihat’s1ife.Certainlythatmight

behardtotake,butnotashardasﬁnding
out that you’d been cheated on behind
your back. And truly, no one deserves
that kind of abuse.

So the next time you go out to a
frat party looking for someone to go
home with, remember to consider the
position of that “signiﬁcant other” who
is miles away. Practice the Area-Code
Rule responsibly, and you will be

' rewarded with delightful independence

and with a clear conscience. However,
if you abuse the rule and take
advantage of others, you’ll be rewarded
with that scarlet letter you read about
in English class. Truly, the only thing
better than absolute freedom is
absolute freedom that is guilt-free.

Spring Break 2003 with STS

Americas #1 Student Tour
Operator

best way to make China strong.

I
i
i
l
i
I

It’s your life...

write about it.
X4060

I
I
I
I
I
I

(
I

   Available in Lexington:

# 1 Spring Break Vacations!
Cancun, Jamaica, Acapulco, Bahamas,

Mazatlan, Florida, SPadre. 110% Best Prices!

Book Now & get Free Parties & Meals!

Group Discounts. Now hiring Campus Reps!

1-800-234-7007
endlesssummertours.com

 I/KIITY  59?; g  I’

-

 

Men’sarirl ‘Wornen’s Sportswear,    
Outerwear,‘ and Fly Fishing Products

Only at:

Reel Time Fly Fishing & Outfitter. ‘ . 
23WestWasliington St. is  ,  '
' Lexington, VA 244501‘  "
I. I 462-6100' A 
www.reeltimeflyfisliing.com}-

 

The Gay-Straight Alliance at Washington and Lee celebrated National Coming Out Day, October 11, by issuing the following petition:

We acknowledge our support of and promise to help create an open, understanding and accepting community at Washington and Lee University where
individuals are treated with respect and dignity,

Sell Trips earn cash Travel

Free

Irifoimation/Reservations
1-800-648-4849 or
www.ststravel.com

Earn $1 ,OOO-$2,0()O this semester with a proven CampusFundraiser
3 hour fundraising event. Our programs make fundraising easy
with no risks. Fundraising dates are filling quickly, so get with
the program! It works. Contact CarnpusFundraiser at (888) 923-
3238, or visit www.carnpusfundraiser.com

Sincerely,
416 Members of the Washington and Lee Community

Including:

Laurent Boetsch
David Howison
L.C. Atkins
Dawn Watkins
Courtney Penn
H.T. Williams
Sidney Evans
David Partlett
David Millon
Theodore DeLaney
Robert McAhren
Michael Young
Harlan Beckley
Alan McRae
Eric Wilson
Jennifer Ashworth
Meredith Hibbert
Teresa Glassman
Burr Datz
Lesley Wheeler
Gregg Abeu

Brian Malone
Mandy Hege
Troy Pinkey
James Kahn
Julie Woodzicka
Luke Williams
John White
Colin Tate
James Mahon
Sascha Goluboff
Theresa Brauschneider
Roger Crockett
Brian Richardson
Rance Necaise
Simon Levy

Bill Hamilton

' John Watkins

Frank Settle
Michael Pleva
David Harbor
James Donaghy
James Eason
Andrew Webber
Art Goldsmith
Owen Collins
Timothy Lubin
Kelly Stewart Nichols
Paul Gregory
Allison Bell

Holt Merchant
Tom Kane

Carter Hailey
James Warren
Thomas Gallanis
Elizabeth Peck
Joan Shaughnessy
Scott Sundby
Brian Murchison
Mark Grunewald
Elizabeth Branner
Edward Henneman
Ann MacLean Massie
Daryl Brown
Denis Brion

Maureen Cavanaugh
Lewis LaRue

Tim Jost

Sarah Wiant

Ron Krotoszynski
Mark Drumbl

Brad Werdel

Elizabeth Turley
Danielle Kologe
Quince Hopkins

David Super

Herman Hoying ‘O3L
Kelly Jo Larsen ‘O5
Rian Lewis ‘O5

Steve Martinenza ‘O5
Daley Formby ‘O4
Kyle Meehan ‘O5

Kin Murphy ‘05
Jennifer Lux ‘O5
Annie Rochfort ‘O5
Matt Null ‘O6

Grace Barlow ‘O5
Adam Allogramento ‘O4
Laura Wilson ‘O3
Matthew McDermott ‘O4
Nick Gorham ‘O5
Jason Reynolds ‘O3
Patrice Wedderbum ‘O3
Matthew Hampton ‘O6
Mary Hahn ‘O5
Andrae Anderson ‘O6
Julie Fitzer ‘O3
Charlotte Wheeler ‘O4
Natalie Deibel ‘O4
Bethany Dannelly ‘O5
Martha Allgood ‘O5
Eric Koch ‘O5

Kristen Brown ‘O5
Katie Abplanap ‘05
Joe Crescenzo ‘O3
Laurence McKenny ‘O4
Tim Smith ‘O4

Gonz Perez ‘O4
Warren Baker ‘O4
Lydia Toso ‘O4
Samantha Snabes ‘O3
Jessica Lloyd ‘O6

Jane Ledlie ‘O3

Noble Stafford ‘O5
Collins Rainey ‘O4
Julianne Shelley ‘O5
Elizabeth Wilson ‘O5
Joanna Perini ‘O4
Oliver Horn ‘O5
Rachel Turner ‘O6
Gavin Molinelli ‘O5
Brian Avello ‘O5
Becky Johns ‘O3
Andrew DeYoung ‘O5
Meredith King ‘O3
Samuel Russell ‘O5

Liz Clarke ‘O5
Heather Knorr ‘O3
Joanna Persio ‘O5
Christina Innamorato ‘O5

regardless of sexual orientation.

Lauren Painter ‘O5
Phil Walotsky ‘O5
Lindsay Hagerman ‘O5
George Awkward ‘O6
Eric Toney ‘O3

Drew Heath ‘O5

Mike Hoover ‘03
Bryan Early ‘O4
Spencer Kamey ‘05
Chris Colby ‘O5
Kaela Harmon ‘O5
Rodney Foxworth ‘O6
Lessie Calhoun ‘O4
Haile Dagne ‘O3
Susan Thornton ‘04
Ann Bailey Lynn ‘O3
Tyler Van Leeuwen ‘O6
Emily White ‘O6
Michael Denbow ‘O4
Bill Gilsenan ‘O4

Joy Whitehead ‘O4
Carroll Thompson ‘O3
Avery Gholston ‘O3
Kelly Sugarman ‘O3
Justin Novak ‘O3
Jessie Mann ‘O3
Tiffany Jenkins ‘O5
Nancy Rhinehart ‘O3
Chase Rice ‘O3
Charlie Boisky ‘O4
Will Teichman ‘O3
Jenny Thomas ‘O3
Joy Simon ‘O5
Jessica Lake ‘04
Hattie Gruber ‘O4
Blair Sanzone ‘O4
Will Lewis ‘O6
Sharyn Regan ‘O6
John Cofer ‘06

Anne Johansen ‘O5
Becky Grant ‘O6

JR Peterson ‘O6
Michael Khattak ‘O4
Ian Bambrick ‘O3
Paul Negron ‘O3

Ali Meruani ‘O4
Andrew Latimer ‘O5
Nick Ramsey ‘O3
Skye Justice ‘03

John Wright ‘O3

Jeb Brooks ‘O5
Adrienne Damiani ‘O5
Simone King ‘O5
Neal Willetts ‘O3
Tran Kim ‘O5

Nick Cambell ‘O3
Devin Dickson ‘O4
Kimberly Sampson ‘O4

Mary-Wommack Barton ‘O4

Kelly Taffe ‘O4

Mary Carrol Mazza ‘03
Janet Carter ‘O3

Kim Bulka ‘O4

Teresa Eterno ‘O3
Kelley Magill ‘O5

Kim Kreider ‘O3
Becky Kramer ‘O4
Lee Kirven ‘O3

Clare Green ‘O3
Caroline McKinney ‘04
Jennifer Miller ‘O4
Susan Somers ‘O5
Krystina Brown ‘O5

P. Ryan Murphy ‘O3
Erin Hamilton ‘O5
Carol Wang ‘O3
Richard Williams ‘04
Michael McNamara ‘04
Elizabeth Creasey ‘O4
Cristin Nunez ‘O5
Emilee Johnson ‘O6
Nazo Burgy ‘O6
Douglas Allen ‘06
Caitlin Lane ‘O6
Stacey Kimmel ‘O3
Vishal Sapra ‘O6

Sarah Jafri ‘O5

Ben Everett ‘O6
Jenny Lu ‘O5

Ligia Abreu ‘O6
Rosine Kouamen ‘O5
Alli Foley ‘O6

Drew Davenport ‘06
Ian Dickinson ‘O6
Justin Allegro ‘O3
Tallie Jamison ‘O5
Erin Falzareno ‘O6
Amy Bacastow ‘O6
Zachary Fake ‘O3
Jeremy Mims ‘O4
Brian Maher ‘04

Jeff Dannes ‘03

Eric Ritter ‘O4

Josh Patton ‘O3

Greg Papeika ‘O4

Lee Williams ‘O5
Jared Harrison ‘O5
Matt Clauss ‘05
Daniel Pabst ‘05

Kyle Olcott ‘O5

Noe Garth ‘O5

Ashley Hans ‘O6
Jessica Johnson ‘O6
Kathryn Temple ‘O5
Catherine Alexander ‘O6
Christina Kolock ‘O5
Meredith Donegan ‘05
Murray Abemethy ‘O3
Brodie Gregory ‘O3
Betsy Ely ‘O3
Michelle Widmann ‘O4
Thomas Worthy ‘O5
Esta Acree’O5
Lyndsay Polloway ‘O6
Earl Benson ‘O3

Matt Lafkas ‘O4
Elizabeth Raulston ‘06
Katherine Kilpatrick ‘06
Anne Callison ‘O5
Allison Gruenwald ‘O3

Jenn Backe ‘O4

Sara Jurkowsky ‘O4
Mavia Brown ‘O4
Katie Kolle ‘O3
Lylan Crites ‘O5
Mary Hahn ‘O5
Vanessa Adams ‘04
Ted Archer ‘O6
Pierce Mayson ‘O5
Louisa Feve ‘O6
Briana Derr ‘O6
Mina Azodi ‘O6
Denisio Truitt ‘O5
Olamida Kolewole ‘O5
Akwugo Onuekwusi ‘O5
Ryan Clements ‘O4
Jennifer Nelson ‘O3
Allison Perry ‘05
Erin Johnson ‘O4
Rebecca Parker ‘O5
Maren Garval ‘O4
Catherine Guy ‘O4
Michelle Moore ‘O3
Lauren Partridge ‘05
Katie Johnston ‘05
Alison Irvin ‘O5
Jessica Taylor ‘04
Katie Jenkins ‘O6
Rebecca Merritt ‘O5
Trey Fogg ‘O3
Zahara Parker ‘O5
Matthew Debnam ‘O6
Megan Hill ‘O5
McLean Gordon ‘O5
Kim Hurd ‘O5

Becky Skaggs ‘O5
Clint Oakley ‘O6
Jeffrey Meriggi ‘O3 ‘
Ruth Esponda ‘O5
Andy Harding ‘O3
Geoffrey Rogow ‘O4
Mark Fechtel ‘O5
Gabe Chapman ‘O6
Brian Frydenborg ‘04
Elizabeth King ‘O5
Brooks Batcheller ‘O4
Allen Barry ‘O5
Dustin Jacobson ‘O5
Bruce Howard ‘O5
Wayne Richey ‘02
Matthew Durham ‘O5
Michael Jaschob ‘O3
Bernie Campbell ‘O5
Eric Brassil ‘O4
William Martin ‘03
Timothy Moll ‘04
Robert Floyd ‘O4
Jonathan Wortham ‘04
Sarah Kavanaugh ‘O4
Susannah Hewlett ‘O4
Noah Weber ‘O3
David Hicks ‘03
Brooks Morgan ‘04
Hilary Martin ‘O4L
Austin Jowers ‘O3L

Michael Dimitrik ‘O3L
Les Block ‘O4L

Lisa Fry ‘O3L
Margaret Chipowsky ‘O4L
Tim Ballo ‘O4L
Meghan Smith ‘O5L
Blaine Elliott ‘O4L
Bart Torsyth ‘O4L
Camie Bowden ‘O3L
Jason Timoll ‘O4L
Shellie Sewell ‘O4L
Suzanne Jakata ‘O3L
Mark Kennedy ‘O4L
Shelley Kebay ‘O3L
Dan Payne ‘O4L

Seth Steed ‘OSL
Aimee Jackson ‘O3L
Jill Lowell ‘OSL

Steve Tseng ‘O3L
Michael Kvistad ‘O4L
Jacob Penrod ‘O3L
Henry Leventos ‘O3L
Cynthia Bruce ‘O3L
Kim Bryant ‘O4L
Patricia Jones ‘OSL
April Ballou ‘O5L
Quinn Kurtz ‘OSL
Rebecca Miles ‘OSL
Melissa McClellan ‘OSL
Meghan Morgan ‘ L
Shauna Wickham ‘ 5L
Kate Ballengee ‘OSL
Huey-Lin Nie ‘OSL
Nancy Kuron ‘O3L
Brian Hudak ‘O3L
Julie Palmer ‘O3L

Joel Bogorad ‘O3L
Shayla McGee ‘05L
Michael Adamson ‘O4L
Lee Goches ‘O3L
Jennifer Nelson ‘O4L
Sarah Hays ‘O4L
Damaris Foster ‘O4L
Meredith Galto ‘O3L
Deborah Tang ‘O3L
Lesley Beam ‘O3L

The GSA’s petition for a
more inclusive campus
community at W&L reflects
a diverse group of 80 faculty
and administers, 334 students,
216 men, 200 women, 55
law students, 67 seniors, 72
juniors. 106 S0Ph0m0res, and
51 freshrmn. The GSA would
like to thank everyone who
signed and invites those who
did not to consider supptxting
the GSA in the future
Together, students and faculty

can make W&L an even
better place through the
support of all members of our

community.

 

 

Juaunul L l\. l.\l\lA-ll‘:

SPORTS EDHOR
EMAH; rRtNur\t_i@yu'.i:l)U

"iris Rl1\~i('.3~’Ttliti Flier

MONDAY, OCTOBER 28, 2002

BY DAVID CROWELL
.\SSlS'l‘_\NT SPORTS EDITOR’

The Washington and Lee men’s
soccer team sent a huge Parents
Weekend crowd into a frenzy on Sat-
urday afternoon, upsetting Old Do-
minion Athletic Conference foe Vir-
ginia Wesleyan, the top team in the
NCAA South Region, 4-1 at the rain-
soaked Liberty Hall Fields.

With the win, the Generals won
their ﬁfth ODAC match in a row and
evened their season mark at 7-7-2 (5-3
ODAC). The Marlins, who entered as
the No. 2 team in Division III, dropped
their first game of the season and fell
to 15-1-1 (6-1-1 ODAC).

Despite being huge underdogs,
senior forward Brad Murphy said the
Generals were confident going into
the game.

“They’re the No. 2 team in the
nation, but the upperclassmen had
beaten them three straight times,”
Murphy said. “We had a lot of conﬁ-
dence going into the game, and the
older guys knew we could get it done
if we played a tough game.”

UPSET WIN. Sophomore sweeper Peter Miller sends the ball

SPORTS
Generals slam No.

JEB BROOKS/ The Rir1g—l1m1 Phi

on Saturday at the Liberty Hall Fields as W&L’s Paul Negron

ahead in \Washington and Lee’s 4-1 win over Virginia Wesleyan and Marlins Kelvin Murray (9) and Mark Tribendis give chase.

The Marlins started the scoring
at 32:01 when Josh Nolz scored off an
assist from Evan Siddall, but the Gen-
erals quickly struck back at a defense

that had only allowed three ﬁrst—half
goals this season.

Freshman midﬁelder Derrick Lott
raced down the right side of the ﬁeld,

 

BY DONNY BANKS
SPORTS WRITER

The Washington and Lee volleyball team defeated
Bridgewater to move to 9-0 in the Old Dominion Athletic
Conference and then split four matches at the Maryville
Invitational this week.

The Generals started the week by beating the Eagles
30-14, 3027, 29-31 , 30-27 on Tuesday at the Warner Center.

W&L started strong, dominating the entire first
game. However, Bridgewater clearly made some neces-
saiy adjustments to slow down the Generals’ quick style
of play as they edged closer in the second game and
managed to edge out the third.

But led down the stretch by the solid play of fresh-
man middle blocker Susan Gaillard, W&L put the Eagles
away by winning the fourth game to end the match.

“Bridgewater really adjusted well with shorter serves
and a change in blocking assignments,” head coach
Bryan Snyder said. “But we were able to come through
at some key points which eventually helped us win.”

Gaillard ﬁnished the match with 16 kills and ﬁve
blocks. Sophomore outside hitter Michelle Chastain also

W tps Egls, splits 4 at Mryvill

glee BROOKS / The Ring-trim Phi
HOME COURTADVANTAGE. Sophomore libero Jennifer Lux dives to dig the ball in W&L’s 30-14, 30-27, 29-31, 30-27 win
over Bridgewater at the Warner Center on Tuesday as sophomore Michelle Chastain and senior Stacey Kimmel (12) react.

helped the Generals with 18 kills and 21 digs. Freshman
middle blocker Taylor Gibson recorded seven kills and
seven blocks, while freshman setter Christine Gladysz
tallied 47 assists and 14 digs.

The match marked a quality ODAC victory for W&L
over a third—place Bridgewater team.

“This is a vital victory for our team,” Snyder said. “It
was our first win over a high-caliber opponent since our loss
to Christopher Newport (on Oct. 10). To win a match like this
offers a big boost in conﬁdence going into the home stretch,
especially with the Roanoke match approaching.”

The Generals then traveled to Tennessee for the
Maryville Invitational, defeating Sewanee 30-15, 30-21,
30-17 and Huntingdon 30-22, 30-13, 29-31, 30-21 on the ﬁrst
day of the tournament. Sophomore outside hitter Emily
Wolﬁng had 14 kills and 18 digs against Huntingdon.

W&L lost a pair of four-game matches on Saturday.
Thomas More defeated W&L 29-31, 30-28, 30-27, 30-25,
while Maryville won its match against the Generals 30-
20, 30-27, 29-31, 31-29.

The Generals host Mary Baldwin at 6:30 pm’. on
Tuesday. W&L faces Roanoke, also undefeated in the
ODAC, at home on Saturday.

liNSPiRfiJ BY    SUVE AND DAR 

  

Seats five. has 53 cubic
feet of cargo space. and

turned the comer on his defender and
delivered a beautiful crossing pass
that sophomore midﬁelder Brian Pirkle
hammered home to tie the score with

2 Virginia Wesleyan, 4-1

But to Lott and Murphy, the key to A V,‘
the second half was taking a 1-1 tie  .3

less than eight minutes to play in the
first half.

“That was a big momentum—turner
for us,” Lott said. “We tied the game
back up and from there we took it to
them. They really weren’t ready for it.”

The Marlins certainly weren’t ready
for the Generals’ offense in the second
half, as the muddy conditions affected
their transition play and passing.

While Wesleyan got stuck, W&L
played better in transition and
Murphy seemed to gain extra speed
in the mud, as he raced down the ﬁeld,
took a pass from junior midﬁelder
Jacob Stoehr, sidestepped a defender,
and scored at 52:22. Following the
play, Murphy sank to both knees and
raised his arms to the crowd before
being mobbed by teammates.

“It was pretty crazy,” Murphy
said. “This was our last game in front
of the parents and it was a big deal to
us. We wanted to come out and put
on a show for the crowd.”

The goal by Murphy turned into
a W&L avalanche as freshman
midﬁelder Keith Sullivan and Murphy
both scored late in the second half.

PAGE 5

n
a

into halftime.

“They get up early on their op-  5
ponents, so I guess once we tied the'_ A‘
game so fast, they lost a little bit of
their conﬁdence,” Murphy said. “We 4
took it to them once we realized they  

didn’t have their conﬁdence.”

Senior Tim Foley made four saves ' i '

in goal, including a few big stops in, 

the first half, when the Marlins',"“

outshot W&L 13-5.

The Generals’ win came on the _
heels of a 2-1 victory over Eastemififivi
Mennonite on Wednesday afternoon.

Sophomore Justin Mygatt ’ I
opened the scoring 10:32 into the?“
match off an assist from Murphy, and if
the senior co—captain added W&L’s . A

final goal at the 33:48 mark.

Eastern Mennonite avoided the 
shutout when the ball bounced off a, 
W&L defender and into the Generals’ ‘
goal with 3:32 left to play. Foley made: 1.

ﬁve saves in goal to earn the win.

W&L plays its ﬁnal regular-sea-i 3'

son game when the Generals host

Bridgewater at 4 p.m. on Wednesday. , ’

Soccer pulls off 2 home wins A

Women end regular season with non-conference victories over SCAD, Goucher

BY DAVID CROWELL
ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITOR

Sophomore forward Maggie
Hope and junior midfielder Heather
Coleman each tallied two goals as the
Washington and Lee women’s soc-
cer overwhelmed Goucher on Sunday
afternoon, winning 4-0.

The win followed a 2-1 double-
overtime victory over Savarmah A&D
on Saturday and pushed W&L’s un-
beaten streak to 16 games.

In the victory over the Gophers,
W&L (13-1-3) remained ﬁrmly in con-
trol on offense throughout the entire
contest, but had some trouble ﬁnd-
ing the back of the net.

Hope scored the first goal of the
game off an assist from sophomore
defender Kelley Zagol following a
well-executed comer kick, but the Gen-
erals couldn’t follow up in the first
half, taking a 1-0 lead into halftime.

“We outshot them and we knew
we would eventually finish some

chances,” sophomore defender and '

captain Meghan Hayde said. “We just
didn’t come out as strong after we
played a tough game yesterday.”

Hayde was responsible for
Hope’s second goal at the 61 :55 mark
after she took the ball from midﬁeld,
dribbled through an empty space in
front of the defense and fed Hope with
a perfect pass.

“I knew Maggie would be open
and they gave me lots of space. We
try to get our defenders involved be-
cause that’s how we can score a lot of
our goals,” Hayde said. “It’s nice that
we can contribute to the offense.”

Coleman finished the scoring
with two goals off nice crossing
passes from freshman midﬁelder Gina

 

is available with 188 hp

and a B-speed manual
shift. Even evolution
earft fully explain it.

OVERTIME THRILLER. junior Meghan Hayde plays the ball upﬁeld in W&L’s 2-1 win
over Savannah A&D on Saturday as sophomore Kelley Zagol looks on.

Von Stemberg and senior midﬁelder
Jenny Thomas.

In Saturday’s win over SCAD, the
Generals failed to capitalize on some
good scoring chances as muddy con-
ditions interrupted the offensive ﬂow
and left a number of centering passes
without a recipient.

Von Stemberg gave W&L a 1-0
lead, however, with 15:32 to play in
the first half as she took a pass from
classmate Kerry Giblin and drilled it
past the Bees’ Emily Bohart.

Coach Neil Cunningham noted the
exceptional play of his three freshmen,
including defender Heather Rogers.

“I’ve been pleased all year with
the freshman. They’ve gotten stron-
ger as the year’s gone on, but now it
gets hard,” the second—year head
coach said. “The season is a little
longer than they’re used to and a little
more intense.”

Unfortunately for the Parents
Weekend crowd, SCAD forced 20 min-
utes of extra time as Lindy Krakowiak
followed a mistake in W&L’s defense
to score with 3: 19 to play.

“It was a great goal. She hit an
amazing shot, a real beauty,”
Cunningham said.

Thomas made sure the Generals
didn’t settle for a fourth tie as she scored
off an assist from Hope with 45 sec-
onds left in the second overtime period.

The Generals ﬁnished their regu-
lar season with Sunday’s victory and
await their seed in the Old Dominion _

Athletic Conference Tournament,’ 3

which begins on Saturday.

“We’ve gone 16 games without at 
loss and there won’tbe any team out there ; 5
that wants to lose to us,” Hayde said_._. i
“We need to go into the postseason real-9 
izingtliatandtrytobetlieteamtobeatf;

We’re deﬁnitely where we want to be.”

Visit http://ath|etics.w|u.edu for W&L scores and stats. _

Japanese Film Society
presents
"Spirited Away’ by
Hayao Miyazaki
in Japanese with
English subtitles.
Science Center Room
A214
Saturday, November 2
at 7 pm
Reception (with sushi)
to follow in the Great
Hall of the Science
Center.

Celebrating Student
Success
Nominate someone by filling
out a nomination form found
online at:
htto://campuslife.wlu.edu/
stuaffairsi
studentsuccesshtm
or contact Burr Datz at
x4045 for more information.

Celebrating Student Success
Initiative, sponsored by the

  

1:67.25 
   Nu muons
Monday, umber are

Ttmrs Begin at
8:320 Every’ Night;

    
   
  

x A x . .- «'4; c by 2» 93:‘

05?. III! 

r.»rv';/‘i'-<«'I_:'

7:ll0&8:30'.Ibursun. 
Frtrl.ay,Sattirday& .7

   
 

@5933 WWW WTCR  U5 ll.» I59. 5&1»?! Dean of Students Office, ....» Thursday A. 1:

E0 «ii F59 W955  it'3iE  ‘$51’?  recognizes those students Hnuowgen N}. In 

   Fﬁ, Eiﬁllﬁﬁiliiﬁé who contribute to University ' ' E" ‘ If

A H j , l‘§i%.E    §lI3’5l":l‘ili'£'%i§lW life in ways not often seen to ﬁgsgrvgtioa Required 3',
Star-ﬂag at $15’ y5.5f Made; Shawn  V ﬁ=g_5_-  ttﬁlllll %‘.t.Eit F'li%lllrll’ Itﬁlit. the larger community. ca“ 3§8_1.uﬁ-,3 

 

 

    

PAGE 6

MONDAY, OCTOBER 28, 2002

Offense clicks in

MoGan/ey tosses for 300
yards as W&L football
defeats Sewanee, 26-14

BY JEREMY FRANKLIN
SPORTS EDITOR

Washington and Lee jumped out
to a 20-0 halftime lead and held off a
third-quarter rally by Sewanee to pull
out a 26-14 win at Wilson Field on
Saturday.

Junior Sean McGarvey com-
pleted 25-of-46 passes for 301 yards
and all three ﬁrst—ha]f touchdowns,
becoming the first General to throw
for 300 yards in a game since Chris-
tian Batcheller did so against
Bridgewater in 1999.

Senior Chris Sullivan rushed 29
times for 126 yards and a 45-yard TD
that put the game away in the fourth
quarter, and senior tight end Jay Tho-
mas caught seven of McGarvey’s
passes for 51 yards and a score be-
fore leaving the game with an injury.

“It was huge, especially because
it was a total team effort,” McGarvey
said. “We had everything clicking to-
day. We had our special teams with
the big fake punt, we had our defense
shut them out in the first half, and we
just rebounded in the second half to
really close the deal.”

The win also came after back—to-
back losses in the Old Dominion Ath-
letic Conference to Catholic and
Hampden—Sydney. Although Sewanee
(4-4) is non—conference, the Generals
(3-4) needed a victory before heading
into N o. 2 Bridgewater next week.

W&L coach Frank Miriello cred-
ited offensive coordinator Chris
Ostrowsky with improving the game
plan after the Generals had scored just
53 points in their previous four games.



EFFECTIVE 0FFENsE.]uriior quarterback Sean McGarvey ﬁres
a pass in Washington and Lee’s 26-14 win over Sewanee at

“We spread the field out and
threw the ball quite a bit, and that loos-
ened up the defense so they couldn’t
jam it in there with the run game,”
Miriello said. “They had to play man
coverage on the outside, and we’ve
got some talented kids on the outside.

“Once we started completing
some passes, they had to change their
defensive scheme. We started gash-
ing them with the running game then.”

The Generals racked up 517 yards
of total offense, much of which came
in the first half. W&L converted on
the opening drive of the game on a
touchdown pass from McGarvey to
junior Jon Brimer on a drive kept alive
by junior safety Lee Walker’s 22-yard
rush on a fake punt play.

The Generals extended their lead
to 20-0 on touchdown receptions by

Thomas and senior Dyllan Rankin.

But the Tigers came back in the
second half, as quarterback Kirk
Holtgrewe and running back Justin
Askew ran the ball right at the Gener-
als. Holtgrewe scored on runs of two
and 10 yards to cut the lead to 20-14
with 8:27 left in the third.

“They seemed to be getting out-
side leverage on our defense in that
couple of series. We were back on our
heels,” Miriello said. “We took our
strong safety and brought him down
on the edge, so we added another de-
fender up along the line of scrimmage.
That seemed to solve the problem.”

Sewanee drove down to the Gen-
erals’ 20-yard line on their next pos-
session before turning the ball over
on downs. They wouldn’t make it
back into W&L territory.

gridiron win

BARRETT l)A\\Is/ T/re Rz'rrg-rum Pin‘

\X/ilson Field on Saturday. McGarvey completed 25—of—46
passes for 301 yards and three touchdowns against the Tigers.

Sullivan sealed the win with a
45-yard touchdown run with 9:30 to
play, and a 19-yard pass from
McGarvey to sophomore tight end

, Patrick Neuman on the final drive of

the game made the junior quarterback
the school’s ﬁrst 300—yard passer in
three years.

W&L now faces its toughest
opponent of the season in defending
NCAA Division III runner-up
Bridgewater. The Generals and the
Eagles kick off at 1 p.m. on Saturday.

“We’ve got to stay focused, im-
prove on what we did today,” Sullivan
said. “We ﬁnally showed today that
we can play like a real team. It’s going
to be tough, but any team can beat
any other team on any given day.
We’re just going to go out there and
see what happens.”

Field hockey splits pair of home matches

BY MICHAEL LEE
SPORTS WRITER

Washington and Lee ﬁeld hockey
split their weekend games at home,
with a Saturday afternoon win over
St. Mary’s and a Sunday afternoon
loss to Catholic University.

W&L sophomore midﬁelder Kitt
Murphy scored first Saturday after-
noon, assisted by junior sweeper
Maitena Moure, with 23 :40 remaining
in the first half. Murphy then assisted
freshman midﬁelder S.B. Northen with
9:00 remaining to give the Generals a
2-0 lead at halftime.

St. Mary’s struck back less than
four minutes into the second half, as
junior midfielder Kate Story scored
unassisted. The rest of the half saw no
scoring, until Moure tallied on a pen-
alty comer assessed after time expired,
with the assist credited to Murphy.

W&L freshman goalies Courtney
Harrison and Elise Gelinas combined
for ﬁve saves and one goal allowed.

Sunday afternoon brought the
Cardinals of Catholic University to the
Turf Field. The Generals opened

 

JED BRooILs/ The Ring-rm P/ii

SLAP SHOT. Freshman S.B. Northern and the Generals fell to Catholic, 3-2.

strong, but were unable to hold on to
the lead as Catholic fought back, de-
feating W&L 3-2.

The Generals opened the day
with a penalty stroke from sophomore
defender Erin Rathbone with 28:17
remaining in the half. Play then moved
up and down the ﬁeld for more than
20 minutes with no scoring.

Junior forward Jessica Lake took
a breakaway all the way to the Catho-
lic goal, but was stopped by goalie
Katie Iarmacone. Catholic sophomore
forward Rebecca Clark followed with

a breakaway of her own, but Gelinas
was able to stop her from the goal.

W&L sophomore Kristen Brown
gave her team a 2-0 lead on a goal as-
sisted by freshman defender Katharine
Lester with 4:34 left in the half.

The second half, however, brought
harder and tougher play from the Cardi-
nals. Catholic freshman forward Christy
Engstrom scored on a penalty stroke
with 30:57 remaining in the half. Clark
then scored twice more, once assisted
by freshman midﬁelder Jamie Punyko,
at 24: 19 and 15:24 to seal the game.

Gelinas spent 50 minutes in the
goal to earn eight saves, and Harrison
rounded out the remaining 20 minutes
to earn two saves. lannacone spent
the entire game in the goal, garnering
10 saves.

W&L coach Wendy Orrison was
disappointed but optimistic for the
challenge of their ﬁrst Old Dominion
Athletic Conference Tournament.

“Catholic is a tough team. They
were ranked top 20 last year, and they
took (Johns) Hopkins to overtime,”
she said. “The loss is tough, but
these are the types of teams that we’ll
be playing in the ODAC Tournament,
so the experience was valuable.”

Orrison noted fatigue in her play-
ers. “We were tired and ﬂatfooted
during the second half, and they took
advantage of that.” Orrison also
pointed out that Rathbone’s penalty
stroke was her fourth of the season,
and she has scored on all of them.

The Generals will return to play
on Saturday when they host Virginia
Wesleyan in the quarterﬁnals of the
ODAC Tournament, with a time to be
determined.

Women’s te

nnis opens’

with strong fall season '

BY MICHAEL LEE
SPORTS wRITER

Washington and Lee women’s
tennis is off to an excellent start.
The Generals have concluded their
fall season in fine form, and will con-
tinue to train in anticipation of the
spring schedule.

Coached by Cinda Rankin, the
team finished up their last two tour-
naments very
strongly. The
W&L Fall Fes-
tival was swept
by the home
team — a Gen-
eral found her-
self at the top of
each ﬂight.
Coach Rankin
was very pleased with their play.

“Liberty University is Division
I, and they played very well,” she
said. “I’m very happy that our girls
did so well against them.”

The No. 1 doubles team of se-
nior Erika Proko and sophomore
Lindsay Hagerman then traveled to
the ITA National Championships in
Corpus Christi, Texas. The two were
defeated by a team from the Univer-
sity of California at Santa Cruz, and
then beat teams from Denison and
the College of New Jersey to secure
their ﬁfth-place ﬁnish.

The mainly individual fall sea-
son then concluded. Spring season
will see the team return to play as
they begin dual matches.

 

RANKIN

Rankin is very happy with her,
team as they enter their winter break.
“I have seven freshmen who have a
very good work ethic. They’re all
very positive, coachable players, and
they’ll be challenging up the ladder ‘
soon. The upperclassmen have
been very good about helping the
freshmen adjust to the team here.”

Freshman Lisa Mabry leads the _”
Class of 2006 on the team. Mabry
won the B draw at the Southeast
Regional Rolex Tournament at Mary

, Washington, and had to defeat her

teammate, freshman Patty Roberts, pi,
in order to do it.

“The girls are very competitive,
but they are always in good spirits
about their play,” said Rankin, who
pointed out that both Mabry and ‘
Roberts played very hard during that
match, neither giving an inch.

Proko and classmate Laura
Bruno are the team’s captains. Rankin ,
appreciates the effort that the two
have put forth. “Laura has been re-
covering from knee injuries, but is
looking forward to a good season in
the spring, and Proko is coming off V
the Nationals toumament,” she said.
“Both are excellent players.”

The 22 members of the women’s
tennis team are in good shape as ,
they look to the spring season. It is
a large team, but with that many play-
ers, Rankin is able to schedule two
Old Dominion Athletic Conference
matches on the same day — the only I
constraint is the number of courts
available to her.

Men’sswimming ’
coach resigns post‘

I’RO.\l STAFF REPORTS

Washington and Lee men’s
swimming coach Andrew Pulsifer,
who has held his post since 1997,
has resigned for health reasons.

Women’s head coach Kiki
Jacobs will assume head coaching
duties for the remainder of the 2002-
03 season. The search for an assis-
tant swim coach will begin immedi-
ately, while a permanent head coach
should be named after the season.

During his ﬁve-plus years with
the school, Pulsifer continued the 28-
year streak of sending at least one
swimmer to the NCAA National Chain-
pionships, and three Generals earned
Division HI All-America honors.

“It is with great sadness that I
leave this outstanding swimming
team,” Pulsifer told W&L Sports In-
formation. “l have the highest re-
gard for this exceptional group of
young men and trust that they will
continue to strive for personal ex-
cellence.

“I wish to thank Washington
and Lee University for the opportu-

nity to work with such outstanding
young men.”

Women’s swimming
opens year with ODAC win

LYNCHBURG — The W&L}.
women’s swimming team began the
2002-03 season with a 79-42 Old
Dominion Athletic Conference win
at Randolph—Macon Women’s Col-
lege on Thursday. . ’

Senior Kelli Austin won the 200
and 500 Free with times of 2:06.27
and 5:53.88, and classmate Blair
Huffman placed first in the 200 Fly,
(2:l8.39) and 1,000 Free (1 1:37.80) to
lead W&L.

Freshman Beth Sauer also won
two events for the Generals, ﬁnish-
ing ahead of the pack in the 100 and’
200 Breast with times of 1: 18.22 and
2:45.49.

Junior Mandi Kimble recorded
a ﬁrst—p1ace finish in the 200 back-‘
stroke at a time of 2:22.68.

W&L continues its ODAC
schedule with a 7 p.m. meet at Sweet
Briar on Wednesday.

i

 

‘I
SCOREBOARD
V
SATuRDAv’s FOOTBALLYARDLINE W&L SPORTS SCHEDULES OCT. 28-Nov. 3
Washington and Lee 26, Sewanee 14 Tuesday, Oct. 29 Volleyball
Randolph-Macon 0 0 14 0-14 Volleyball‘ Roanoke at w&|_, 12 pm_
Washington and Lee _6 14 0 6-20 Mary Baldwin at W&L, 6:30 p.m. Maryvme at W&L: 4 pm it
First Quarter Football

W&L -— Brimer 20 pass trom McGarvey (Kellogg kick tailed), 10:12
Second Quarter
W&L — Thomas 6 pass from McGanrey (conversion failed), 11:48
W&L -— Rankin 21 pass from McGarvey (Neuman pass from
McGarvey), 2:30

Wednesday, Oct. 30
Men’s Soccer

Bridgewater at W&L, 4 p.m.
Women’s Swimming
W&L at Sweet Briar, 7 p.m.

W&L at Bridgewater, 1 p.m.

Men’s and Women’s Swimming
W&L at Transylvania, 1 p.m.
Field Hockey “

Third Quarter W&L in ODAC Tournament, TBD
UOS — Holtgrewe 2 run (Tuck kick), 12:33 Friday, Nov. 1 Men’s Soccer
UOS — Holtgrewe 10 run (Tuck kick), 8:27 Riding W&L in ODAC tournament, TBD

Fourth Quarter W&L in ODAC Championships womenis soccer
W&L — Sullivan 45 run (conversion tailed), 9:30 (at RMWC)

W&L in ODAC Tournament, TBD 5-

UOS W&L Saturday, Nov. 2
First downs 16 26 Cross Country s‘_‘"_“aV* N°"' 3
Rushes-yards 39-153 44-212 W&L in ODAC Championships Rldlllg
Passing yards 132 305 (at Roanoke) W&L at H0l|inS lnvilalional
Return yards 4-27 3-36 i
Comp-Att-Int 17-27-1 26-47-0
Sacked-Yards lost 0-0 0-0  FOOTBALL GLANCE
Punts 7-35.3 2-47 V
Fumbles-lost 0-0 0-0 ODAC °Ve'a"
Penalties-yards 4-35 7-61 Team W L W L PF PA
Time of Possession 22:32 37:28 Bridgewater 3 0 7 0 280 64 i‘
Hampden-Sydney 4 1 6 1 231 123
RUSHlNG s«iw:liiIeiDUri LksTA2T(is1T IigsHoltgrewe 12 25 Ra"d°'ph'Ma°°n 2 1 5 2 116 99
—- e: s ew - , - , .
Williams 2-2, Eson 1-0, Cole 1-(-10). Washington and Lee: Sullivan igatsnngton and Lee $ 2 2 2 :24 170
29-126, Caramore 9-31, McGarvey 2-so, Walker 1-22, Diverio 3‘ °‘° 7 195 I
2.5, Team 1_(_2)_ Emory & Henry 0 3 2 5 104 192
PASS|NG—Sewanee: Holtgrewe 17-27-1-132. Washington and Guillofd 0 3 3 4 123 208
Lee: McGarvey 25-46-0-301, Whitfield 1-1-0-4. Oct. 26 Results NW 2 scheduje

RECElVlNG—Sewanee: Rodgers 7-67, Williams 4-48,
Askew 4-11, Eson 2-6. Washington and Lee: Thomas 7-51,
Callaham 6-99, Sullivan 5-39, Rankin 4-62, Neuman 2-24,
Brimer 1-20, Caramore 1-10.

|NTERCEPT|ONS—-Washington and Lee: Walker 1-2.

W&L 26, Sewanee 14

Bridgewater 48, Emory & Henry 18
Hampden-Sydney 30, Catholic 20
Randolph-Macon 17, Johns Hopkins 12

W&L at Bridgewater
Catholic at Emory & Henry
Guiltord at Randolph-Macon
Davidson at Hampden-Sydney

 

.G

3:

 

 

Greek scholarships

Fraternities to subsidize four
new members each year; sororities may follow suit

BY KATTE HOWELL
EDITOR IN CHIEF

Numbers of Washington and
Lee University men joining frater-
nities will increase slightly next
semester once the Interfraterriity
Council (IFC) implements its new
need-based aid program.

The new scholarship will pro-
vide four freshmen each year with

“If you look at the rush num-
bers, they go up and down each year,”
Jacobs said. “But usually about 20
percent of students don’t pledge.”

The W&L Institutional Re-
search Web site said 72 percent of
women on campus are in Greek or-
ganizations. W&L’s Panhellenic
Council is currently investigating
the possibility of establishing a
scholarship system similar to the

money tocover the Greekfee, a$500 IFC system for W&L women.
yearly charge. T0 begin
According IT IS A HUGE EiNAN- Paying for the
wlhe W&L IN‘ CIAL COl\/iMI"Il\/TENT TO S°h°1arship’IFC
tuuonal Research charged each of
web site, 80 per. JOIN A GREEK ORGA- the 15 fratemi-
cent of campus NIZA-HON. WE WANT ties anadditional
men are ﬁatemity $50 in Fall Term
n)cmbefs_ TO MAKE IT AS FASY AS dues. Jacobs
“It is ahuge POSSIBLE FOR PEOPLE Said they Will
ﬁ’,‘a“°la1 ?",m‘ TO JOIN THE SYSTEM. °.h‘“g° an add”
nutrnenttojorna tlonal $5 per
Greek orga_niZa_   IIICIIIDCF  W111-
tion,” IFC advi— IFC ADI/D-OR ter Term dues.
sor Matt Jacobs Jacobs said

said. “We want to make it as easy
as possible for people to join the
system if they want to.”

Jacobs said the scholarship
will provide the Greek fee to the
four recipients for their sopho-
more, junior and senior years. The
chosen fraternities will cover the
$125 freshman year Greek fee.

 

W&L’s fraternity system has not
had an aid program in his ﬁve years
at the school.

“This system should last,” he
said. “We’ve built in a perpetual fimd-
ing system, so hopefully (the aid pro-
gram) will grow aridchange with time.”

The IFC is currently accept-
ing applications from interested
freshmen men. Application forms
are available from dorm counselors
or outside the IFC ofﬁce in the Uni-
versity Center.

Upon selection, the only cri-
teria to continue receiving fund-
ing are to keep the Greek minimum
GP.A. of 2.0 and to remain a mem-
ber in good standing of the cho-
sen fraternity.

“About three or four kids have
asked me about the program al-
ready,” Jacobs said. “I think the
W&L fraternity system is really
going to get something out of this
(new aid program).’’

RI

WASHINGTON AND I

NG-TUM

T/ll’ student mile of Washington and lire Uniuerrzh unit 7897 45 Online at: ])liz'.w/n.en'n

;EE UNIVERSITY

PHI

VOLUME CV, NO.Xlll
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 2002

Students: vote tomorrow

W&L-related candidates joust for the 24th Districts House of Delegates seat

STATE Issues

[] 

 
 

$154 million referendum

if approved, bond funds will al-
low for the construction and
refurbishment of buildings in
all of Virginia’s universities,
community colleges and mu-
seums. The Virginia Milititary
institute would directly benefit
from this measure, Washing-
ton and lee would not.

[] 

 

$119 million referendum

If approved, bond funds will al-
low for the purchase of land for
three new state parks, 11 ex-
isting parks, 10 new natural
area preserves and eight ex-
isting preserves.

° $30 million

to purchase new land

° $6.5 million

for additional land

- $4.5 million

to protect shoreline erosion. 1
° $78 million

for construction, repairs

“WE NEED TO
ADDRESS THEiE
DTUET NOW. WE

DON’T HAVE HME To
WAIT. I T’: TlME YHAT
WE CUT THROUGH THE
SLOGANS AND THE
RHETORIC AND GET To
WORK ”

MIMI ELRoD, Democrat

 

   

BEN CLINE, Republican

‘7 HAVE BEEN
FIGHTING WITH Boa ,
GOODLATTE FOR
EIGHT YE/IRA" TO MAKE
THE FEDERAL
GOVERNMENT WORK 
I HOPE To CONHTWJE
THD" FIGHT AT THE
STATE LEVEL”

Top 5 Donors ($122,627 total)
$7,800 Va Rep Joint Caucus (Richmond)
$6,000 Committee for Repub.  (Roanoke)
$5,000 Dominion Trust (Fredericksburg)
$5,000 VaConservativeActionPAC (COlonialHeights)
$2,800 Robert Berkstresser (Lexington)

ELROD AND CLINE DoNoRs AND EXPENDITURES

Top 5 Donors ($144,314 total)
$10,000 H.F. “Gerry”LenfeSt (West Chester, PA)
$9,750 New Leadership Va Fund (Richmond)
$5,000 joshua Elrod (Lexington)
$5,000 Frank Parsons (Lexington)
$2,500 Rose H. Schewel (Lynchburg)

 

$15,700 TV/ Radio

$7,500 Polling

323 Donations of $100 or Less ($20,864) 244 Donations over $100 ($123,450)

$32,400 TV / Radio

$7,800 Polling

284 Donations of $100 or Less ($16,465) 188 Donations over $100 ($106,162)

Despite Democrat Mimi Elrod and Republican Ben
Cline’s connections to Washington and Lee, students
won’t be a signiﬁcant factor in deciding who gets the
House of Delegates seat.

Lexington voting data for the 2001 gubernatorial
election indicate that only 31 percent of registered 18-
year-olds, 20 percent of 19 to 21-year-olds and 16 per-
cent of 22 to 25 year-olds voted.

In the November 1999 election, only 42 percent of
registered voters age 18, 12 percent of voters age 19-21
and eight percent of voters age 22-25 cast a ballot.

The vast majority of W&L students are registered
to vote in their home states, rendering them ineligible
to vote in Lexington tomorrow. Most students tend to
be more interested in home—state politics, and vote with
absentee ballots.

“I’m more personally concerned about what hap-
pens in my home state,” senior Paige Bryant said.
“Where you come from is more important than where
you are for four years.” .

Senior Anne Lotz feels that by casting a ballot in
Lexington, she would vote for candidates who repre-
sent different people than herself.

“I think about this as home, but I know it’s school,”
Lotz said. “Even if I voted here, the candidates would

Top 5 Expenditures
$21,725 Direct Mail / Design/ Printing

$15,251 Signs / Bumper Stickers / Etc.
$12,000 Donations to Party Committees

Top 5 Expenditures

$16,357 Direct Design / Printing
$13,327 Signs / Bumper Stickers / Etc.
$9,635 Staff Salaries / Beneﬁts

BY DREW DAVENPORT
STAFF WRITER

see ELECTTON, page 2

 

INFOGR.-\PHlCI MATTHEW MCDERMOIT/ The Ring-tum P/tr‘, ALL PICTURES AND DATA COURTESY The Augusta Fm Prim, The Virginia Public Access Project, rnjor1rl.0r;g, 211/u.edu, lmrrlzmzmm, umiedu

Par garage repaired

BY MATTHEW MCDERMOTI‘

EDITOR IN CHIEF

W&L students may have found the park-
ing garage even less accessible than usual, due

to this weekend’s construction.

Parts of the third level were closed off while
the Haskell Co., the Jacksonville, Fla., firm that
originally built the garage, replaced the

building’s joint covers.

“[Haskell] is putting in non-beveled cov-
ers,” said Associate Physical Plant director

Randolph Hare.

The previous beveled covers were injuring

the garage’s structure.

This is not the first time that the garage has

needed extra work.

The 609—vehicle parking garage’s initial
opening was delayed by approximately a month.

The Haskell Co. requested and received an ex-
tension from Feb. 1 to Feb. 28, 2000.

The project was delayed by poor soil con-

the Warner Center.

ditions that hindered the foundation’s construc-
tion and led to a collapse of the bank just below

Lexington’s City Council approved the

garage’s planning in March 1999. Approximately
30 of these spots are planned for faculty and

staff use, while the remaining 117 are used by

commuting students.

-—For student opinion, see the staﬂ edito-

rial, on page 3.

SECRETS OF SHAMANISM UNTAPPED

KAIJN AEr.ANA1,E/Universty Scholars
SPIRIT GUIDE. Local Shaman explains her spiritual practices to the University Scholar/ Anthropology
class “Shamanism, Spirit Possession, and the Occult,” taught by Professor Sascha Goluboff.

State requests I—81improvements

Private tinns asked to
oontrbute to Interstate inprovements

BY KATTE HOWELL
EDITOR IN CHIEF

Drivers can expect a safer Interstate 81 in
the future now that the state has begun to seek
highway construction bids. Drivers, however,
may encounter tolls to help pay for the irn—
provements, given the state’s dire budget woes.

These were two certainties that emerged
from a Va. Department of Transportation
(VDOT) district meeting in Staunton last
month that addressed the road one VDOT
ofﬁcial described as “over—trafﬁcked and of-
ten dangerous.”

VDOT requested proposals for develop-
ment, improvements and ﬁnancing from pri-
vate consultants and contractors. It is likely
that VDOT will know speciﬁc projects and
improvements it will make one year from now.

I-81 “is over—trafﬁcked and often dan-
gerous,” said Tamara Neale, a VDOT
spokeswoman. About 40,000 vehicles
traverse the 47 miles of I-81 in Rockbridge

County each day, a recent VDOT traffic
count found. Neale said the interstate needs
to be improved for both safety and efficiency.

However, “there’s no state money for these
improvements right now, which is why we want
to tap into the private sector,” Neale said

VDOT publicized the proposal compe-
tition for consultants, contractors and other
private organizations in early September.

Earlier this month, state ofﬁcers, con-
tractors and consultants discussed sepa-
rating truck and passenger lanes, building
railroads to reduce truck traffic and using
tolls to pay for improvements.

Financing, especially the possibility of
tolls, was the major issue addressed during
a recent Staunton District meeting in

Harrisonburg. No ofﬁcials or companies
from Rockbridge County were represented
at the event.

State ofﬁcials said their request for
proposals does not require the use of tolls
as a means of funding. Still, many partici-
pants focused on tolls.

Consulting firms were the main toll pro-
ponents. Dan Dornan, vice president of
AECOM Consulting in Fairfax, advocated tolls.

“I would argue that it’s unlikely you’re
going to be able to pay for this from local
funds, from federal funds, from even a truck-
only toll,” Doman said. “You’ve got to ﬁnd
either a sugar daddy out there willing to put
a lot of money into this road — and I don’t
think the tooth fairy is coming to Virginia in
the near future -—— or you’re going to have to
probably toll the whole sucker, which in-
cludes passenger and trucks.”

However, truck companies and local
business representatives are not in favor
of tolls on I-81.

Benjamin Carter, executive director of
the Greater Augusta Regional Chamber of
Commerce, argued that trucking companies
already pay substantial taxes and that tolls
could be devastating to local businesses.

“Local trucking companies will be af-
fected more severely by these tolls, since a
greater percentage of their travel is on the
portion of Interstate 81 that’s under con-
sideration,” Carter said. “This would put
local trucking companies at a substantial
disadvantage to competitors from outside
the area.”

VDOT is seeking proposals under the
Pub1ic—Private Transportation Act of 1995.
The law allows the state to design, con-
struct, improve, maintain and operate trans-
portation facilities in conjunction with pri-
vate companies and consultants.

“VDOT wants to tap into the very, very
best of what the state has to offer in both

the public and private sectors in order to
make the roadway as safe as possible while
still serving as an efﬁcient means of trans-
portation,” Neale said.

VDOT’s request for proposals began
with an unsolicited proposal in January by
STAR Solutions, a group of companies that
used the 1995 law to suggest improvements
for I-81. It suggested truck tolls to pay for
construction and development costs.
VDOT returned the request in August with-
out comment and initiated the competitive
petition in early September.

The request has 20 stipulations, includ-
ing safety, environmental, railway and up-
keep issues. The query also emphasizes the
private companies’ and state department’s
financial risks.

“We’re also asking the private sector
for their ideas on how to finance this
project,” Neale said. “We don’t want an-
swers like bonds, taxpayers or VDOT’s bud-
get. (The companies) will take a share in the
risk and investment as well.”

Neale said VDOT has no timeframe for
construction completion. The deadline for com-
panies to submit initial proposals is in January;
review and selection deadlines will continue
through next summer. She said the department
will make ﬁnal negotiations by Sept. 30 and
construction will begin soon afterward.

Some citizens, including Jim Hartman,
president of Truck Enterprises in
Hairisonburg, are not in favor of large-scale
improvements.

“I-81 is a critically important compo-
nent of the Va11ey’s ﬁscal viability,” Hartman
said. “Our solution must be reasonable and
equitable for all. We don’t need eight lanes
with segregated vehicle lanes for all 300-
plus miles. Spending billions on passenger
and (railroads) will not help us in the next
decade. There are practical solutions, and
I’m sure we’ll ﬁnd them.”

  
 

 

 

JA .5‘ :2 
\t‘JAdir’I¥:4U5i3~”*

 

 « .,, ...,3-::..°.~.r“+:=,:z‘;'v
mm!‘

, nnevitn, 22*! 9.

   

 

 

W&L students not deciding factor

ELECTION, from page 1

not be representing me, they could
be representing people in this area.”
Sophomore Joanna Persio, an
organizer of the recently reestab-
lished Young Democrats, maintains
her voter registration in Connecticut.
Persio likewise believes that citi-
zens in the 24"‘ district should decide
who represents them, because their
interests are different that interests of
W&L students. ‘
Despite this sentiment, both Col-

spective candidate in hopes of pro-
ducing victory.

The College Republicans have
assisted by “putting up signs, ring-
ing doorbells and talking to people
about who Cline is and what he stands
for,” said junior John Heath, the
group’s president.

In addition to a rally that included
Mr. Cline, U.S. Sen. John Warner (R-
Va) and Rep. Bob Goodlatte (R), Col-
lege Republicans has also worked
with VMI and Southern Virginia to
provide maximum support for Cline,

supported Elrod, by working phone
banks and identifying people who will
deﬁnitely vote for Elrod, Persio said.

Because of the nationwide im-
portance of the Nov. 5 elections,
which include 36 gubernatorial and
34 Senate races, College Republi-
cans did not press students to
change their registration to Lexing-
ton, Heath said.

Heath predicts that Cline will
emerge “comfortably” victorious on
Nov. 5. Persio similarly feels optimis-
tic about Elrod’s chances.

 

lege Republicans and Young Demo- Heath said.

crats have been working for their re-

E~mail news briefs to
pIz_i@wlu.edu

 

Joint W&L and VMI proposal /ands
Natl Conference on Undergraduate Research

Virginia Military Institute and Washington and Lee
University have been selected to host the 2005 National
Conference on Undergraduate Research — the only meet-
ing for students from hundreds of colleges nationwide to
present their research across the broad liberal arts from
politics to physics, literature to fine arts.

NCUR’s announcement that VMI and W&L won the
competition for the March 17-19, 2005 conference brings
to fruition nearly two years of work by the schools to
forge a public-private partnership to secure a major aca-
demic conference for Virginia.

The VMI-W&L partnership is a model for other pub-
lic and private colleges to work together in furthering op-
portunities for students and faculty. NCUR cited the VMI-
W&L partnership in selecting Lexington — the smallest
community ever chosen by NCUR from its usual choice of
major cities as conference sites — to host the three—day
event, which draws about 2,500 students and acadenrics
from across the country each year.

“This is a splendid opportunity for VMI and W&L to
further our common conviction that creative student work,
by students in all disciplines, is an integral part of the best
possible undergraduate education,” said W&L’s Acting
Dean of the College Thomas Williams, a senior physics
professor.

“This is a watershed event in the history of VMI and
W&L,” Williams said of the partnership between the two
institutions separated only by their distinctive architecture.

The 2005 conference, “Inquiry, Discovery, Creativity

Young Democrats have similarly

It’s now up to the voters, whether
or not they attend W&L.

and Scholarship: A Celebration of Undergraduate Re-
search,” will draw on the success of both VMI and W&L
in promoting and funding advanced scholarly work by
students in mentorship with professors. These experiences
are especially valuable since both institutions focus on
undergraduate education.

As the nation’s ninth—oldest college, Washington and
Lee University has long promoted undergraduate research
through a variety of means, including its senior thesis and
summer student grants programs, which provide over 50
W&L undergraduates each summer with stipends to col-
laborate with faculty in research.

Outstanding student research at W&L includes re-
cent graduate Karly Shallow’s analysis of the cultural and
demographic effects on status consumer consumption.
Through her work with Professor Robert Straughan, Shal-
low was invited to present her marketing research ﬁnd-
ings in June at an international conference of higher edu-
cation and business leaders in Spain.

Virginia Military Institute, which enrolls about 1,300
cadets, recently formalized its tradition of emphasizing
faculty mentorship with cadets in research through the
Institute—wide Undergraduate Research Initiative to inte-
grate cadet scholarly inquiry across the curriculum and
throughout cadets’ four years at the public institution.

To win the 2005 NCUR conference — the ﬁrst to be
held in Virginia — VMI and W&L launched a joint commit-
tee of faculty and administrators chaired by Colonel James
E. Turner, director of VMI’s research initiative and a pro-
fessor of chemistry and biology.

By combining resources, VMI and W&L offered nu-
merous classrooms, lecture halls and public facilities
needed to host about 2,000 presentations, talks and large
poster sessions that will be featured at the March 2005
event

VMI and W&L students will help plan the confer-
ence, serve as host guides, assist guest speakers and
participate in research presentations ~ including their own.
A web site for NCUR 2005 also will be developed by a
team of VMI and W&L students.

story courtesy wlu.edu

 
 
  
   
 
  

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 2002

  EDITORS
wanted

Winter Term vacancies opening up

 

All manner of editor po-
sitions, in many sections,
assistant and full, are ready
for applicants.

(I)

No previous experience
necessary: on—the—job train-
ing available from the best
editors on campus.

(I)

Learn a great deal from
working in a large and
complex organization.
Great experience and good
for one’s resume.

“joining The Rz'ng—tr/772 PM
was the best thing I ever did
. . . I shudder to think what I

otherwise would have

become.”
- - LUCIUS JUNIUS DESHA ‘06

F" * ‘ — — — — — — —'—"“"———'|

Contact
Katie Howell

at
howeIlk@ wlu.edu

to set up

I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
I
Interview times :
I

    

Before Iast   weekenuhe only
 tlunghed eve hiliﬂe   was a CI).
 Aithough fire fighters do everyrthingigithey cantoipreven    
    burns, more than 2.5 millionburnInjuriiesoccur en, ,
North America eachpyear. Most could be prevented’ FIRE

To Iearnpmoreabout our “Don’t GetBurned"
campaign. please visit www.|AFFBurnFund org

This message is brought to you byiithe Internationaij Association '
A of Fire Fighters. Hamid A. Schaitberger, Generai President

 

  
  
   
 
   
  
   

 

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 2002

Sl§ARllliiPliDlTORlAL

Plug temporary garage entrance

Even at a 253—year-old institution, three
years is not temporary.

Yes, it’s high time we got rid of the “tem—
porary entrance” on the fourth ﬂoor of the park-
ing garage.

Consider the numbers: according to the
Virginia Department of Transportation traf-
fic count report from August, approximately
4,300 cars pass through the intersection of
Washington Ave. and Nelson St. each day.
Some of you may have noticed the tempo-
rary entrance to Washington and Lee’s own
parking garage located precariously near this
intersection. It is, therefore, safe to assume
that a large number of these 4,300 cars are
coming either into or out of this temporary
entrance each day. With this large number, it
is also safe to assume that several of these
cars will meet one another coming either into
or out of the temporary entrance (and per-
manent exit).

Consider the logistics: the Haskell Com-
pany, who designed and built our parking ga-
rage, did not plan for cars to meet at the awk-
ward turn in our current temporary entrance.
If they had, they would not have built a high,
concrete wall blocking the view of oncoming
trafﬁc from both sides, and they certainly would
not have painted two exit arrows on the drive
pointing outward. University architects and plan-
ners did not plan for this to be an entrance to
the parking deck either, or they would not have
built a perfectly useful and functional entrance
on the first ﬂoor.

Now, the Phi understands that often it
is hard to drive the extra 150 yards down
Nelson St. when you are late for class after
a long night of partying in the country. The
lure of that temporary entrance sign glow-
ing like a beacon of hope from the top of
the parking garage, hope that your profes-
sor won’t mock you when you run breath-
less into class, ten minutes late with a
hungover look and tousled hair, is often
tempting even for Phi staffers. Dear reader,
restrain yourself as we do. Giving into temp-
tation not only weakens your character, but
it potentially harms others. What if you run
down a poor student, meekly turning the cor-
ner of the exit, not sure of what’s on the
other side of that concrete wall, in your self-
ish attempt to brown-nose your professor?
How would you live with yourself? How
would you explain the crushed bumper on
your 4-runner to Daddy?

Consider our suggestion: go the extra

hard to turn the corner and drive up the
ramps to the fourth ﬂoor. We estimate it will
take you an extra minute. Think about the
safety of yourself (and your Beamer). Think
about the safety of others. Washington and
Lee, it’s time to get rid of the temporary
entrance. The parking garage was com-
pleted on Feb. 28, 2000. Let’s get this show
on the road.

mile (or quarter mile). It’s really not that’

Editors in chief KatieJ. Howell
MatthewB.McDermott
Assignments Editor AndrewA.Latimer
Opinions Editor ImranNaeemullah

 

THE RiNo-rriir PH].

PINIONS

IMRANNAEEVIUILAH
OPINIONSEDHOR

Elections Tuesday crucial

That the upcoming Senate elec-
tions will be close offers just about the
only consensus regarding what will
occur on Nov. 5'“. Currently, America
seems ideologically evenly divided.
This is exempliﬁed perhaps no better
than in the Senate, where 34 seats are
up for reelection, no less than 12 of
which could prove to be nail biters.
Overall, the Republicans must defend
20 seats to prevent the Democrats from
strengthening their nominal majority
(50-49).

Recently, the tragic death of Min-
nesota Democratic incumbent Paul
Wellstone illustrated these ever in-
creasing tensions surrounding the
Senate. Wellstone’s memorial service
seemed more like a rally for Democratic
supporters. The negative reverbera-
tions of this showing were manifested
as Minority Leader Trent Lott, who had
ﬂown to Minnesota in order to attend
the service, was summarily booed by
the gathered liberals. The willingness
to display such irreverence at a cer-
emony for a man so unanimously
loved certainly demon-
strates that the Senate
elections are highly
contested indeed.

Below is my predic-
tion as to how Republicans may fare in
some of these important elections:

North Carolina: The ﬁercely con-
servative Senator Jesse Helms is retir-
ing after years of dutiful service for NC.
In his place, Elizabeth Dole will run for
the Republicans. Former Secretary of
Transportation, Secretary of Labor, and
head of the Red Cross, she will face
Democrat Erskin Bowles, the former
Chief of Staff to Clinton. Polls show
this race too close to call.

MYPREDICTION: Dole by 2%.

New Jersey: The Democratic in-
cumbent, Robert Tonicelli, dropped out
due to corruption allegations. For a
while, things were looking up for Re-
publican challenger Doug Forrester.
But due to a controversial NJ Supreme
Court ruling, the regionally famous
Frank Lautenburg will be running ir1
his place. This once close race now is
largely unfavorable for Forrester. MY
PREDICTION: Lautenburg by 8%.

LEGENDARY. Retiring Sen. Jesse Helms’ seat is one of many hoy cont

Missouri: This is a special elec-
tion (4 yrs. early) because Dem. In-
cumbent Jean Carnahan was ap-
pointed after her husband was

elected posthu-

oNSERVAnVE’S CORNER m°uS1y- This is a
DONNY BANKS ‘O6

tight one, but chal-
lenger Jim Talent
has years of expe-
rience in Missouri politics compared
to Carnahan’s relative newness. In
addition, he has been the clear win-
ner in the past two debates, which
even featured 3"‘ party candidates
and he has launched a new series of
ads that question her political apti-
tude and the degree to which she de-
serves to be in her position.
MY PREDICTYON: Talent by 3%.
South Dakota: Democrat Incum-
bent Tirnothy Johnson faces a tough
reelection in Republican John Thune,
who is strongly backed by Bush. The
Democrats have attempted to register
thousands of Native Americans, but
many of them have been shown to be
dead, amazingly. This controversy
could throw support to Thune.
MYPREDICTYON: Thune by 1%.
Texas: The Republican incumbent
has resigned, leaving Republican
Comyn to face off against the Demo-
cratic candidate, Kirk. This is also very

    

oourrrrsvor Wim/rro
ested races.

 

close, but Comyn, heavily backed by
President Bush, seems to have the
lead, especially after a win in one of
their debates.

MY PREDICTION: Comyn by 3 %.

Arkansas: The Republican in-
cumbent, Tim Hutchinson, may lose
due in part to the shroud of impropri-
ety surrounding his recent divorce of
his wife of 29 years for a younger bride.
In addition, his opponent, Democrat
Mark Pryor, brings to the table a recog-
nizable name and considerable political
family history in Arkansas.

MY PREDICTION: Pryor by 5%.

Historically, the party opposite the
President triumphs in midterm elections.
This year, however, as shown by the
tense environment of anxiety and com-
petitiveness among Democrats, that
trend could see an inconsistency. The
Republicans could deﬁnitely win some
pivotal challenging positions and main-
tain some incumbencies to gain a ma-
jority in the Senate once again.

By the same token, the worry of
the Democrats could translate into a
more diligent campaign. This would
give the Democrats the safe majority
they so desperately desire. I believe
that the Republicans will hold their
ground and maintain a status quo in
Senatorial numbers.

W&L must better support football

Washington and Lee is a school of many tradi-
tions. Already this year, some of our very positive
traditions have been under the fire of students. The
lack of adherence to the Speaking Tra-
dition, for example, is a prime target for
students to attack. However, while we
as W&L students hold our traditions
very near and dear to our hearts, there is one that we
should rethink. Since September 24 of this year, I have

had the privilege to witness
our football team play four
home games and one away
game. I have greatly enjoyed
watching our players fight to
the finish time and time again.
Because of my involvement
with the Ring-tum Phi, I have
been able to watch the games
pretty much from the side-
lines. For those of you have
never had such an opportu-
nity, it gives the game a whole
different perspective. The

VOICE or REASON
BARRETT DAWS ‘06

When I returned to my dorm room, I remembered that
it was in fact Parents Weekend and maybe the reason
for the mass exodus was some kind of parent—child
event elsewhere on campus. To my sur-
prise and wonder, this was not the case.
People simply got tired of watching our
football team win I guess.

To me, it’s pathetic and embarrassing to see
that we cannot even support our football team for an

entire game! Those guys bust
their butts for at least fifteen
hours a week in practice, no mat-
ter the conditions and then play
every Saturday, and we as a stu-
dent body cannot even give
them two hours or so of our time.
All we have to do is sit in the
stands and watch, hopefully
cheering, while the team does all
the real work.

Not claiming to be an expert
in football, I will state that dur-
ing last week’s game against

PAGE 3

Campus ‘race
watchdogs’ paranoid

While good-intentioned, reaction to race

issues overly dramatic, ignores fact

Judging by the tone of the letters to the editor in re-
sponse to Ryan Owen’s opinion in the Phi last week, one
might imagine that Mr. Owen’s piece was a work of an
ignorant, u1tra—right—wing bigot. While I carmot speak for
Mr. Owen, I will say that the conclusions drawn about his
article by the epistlors are incorrect, and reﬂect a paranoia
about minority issues at Washington and Lee that I ﬁnd
unnecessary at best, and downright troubling at worst.

Toussaint Crawford makes the point that in compari-
son to manyother
institutions of its
stature, W&L is
lacking in re-
sources dedicated
speciﬁcally to minority affairs. He says that because W&L
lacks these facilities for minorities, the EC’s allocation of
funds to the MSA is not excessive in proportion to the
number of people they serve, because minorities are
underserved otherwise. Whether or not this is the case is
an argument that can be argued persuasively from either
side; however, from a fairness perspective, I believe Mr.
Crawford’s letter inadvertently strengthens Mr. Owen’s piece.

Using Mr. Crawford’s logic that the MSA’s frmding is
justiﬁed because of lack of resources otherwise, then why
aren’t other groups given such consideration, at least to
such an extent? For example, one could argue that Mus-
lims, Hindus, and Jews, the largest religious minorities on
campus, suffer from a lack of resources compared to Chris-
tians. For example, there are no places of worship for these
religions in Lexington, let alone on the W&L campus, so
the EC should rightly provide these groups with funding to
enable travel to places of worship and other religious cen-
ters. This would not imply EC support of religion; rather, it
would merely show that the EC is assisting those who are
underrepresented that it is willing to help them enjoy the
same level of access to facilities as are Christians.

That said, I do not feel this is the EC’s obligation, nor
should it be, but Mr. Crawford’s logic certainly implies this.
And if one were to extend his logic beyond those three
religious groups, EC funding—-meant to provide for student
activities-—would soon be more of a “great equalizer” rather
than a just distribution of school resources. While there is
always room for improvement, I think the EC does a good
job of satisfying the many wants of the student body with
the limited funding it receives, the one exception being the
MSA allocation.

Again, this allocation is unfair not because minorities
don’t deserve assistance, but because this is not the EC’s
responsibility. I’m sorry, Mr. Crawford, but the fact that the
MSA doesn’t have a separate student commons to call its
own does not mean the EC should face a Shakedown every
year, driven by guilt and not a desire for justice. The re-
sponsible party is the administration, which has the duty to
ensure reasonably equal access to facilities for all students.
The MSA might have good intentions, but frankly, it is
imagining racist propaganda, which is not the case.

Of course, all this underscores a much larger prob-
lem at Washington and Lee: the issue of race relations.
In the roughly four decades since integration, surpris-
ingly little has changed. While much improvement has
occured for minorities-—certainly, blatant racism is vir-
tually nonexisten ——minority participation in mainstream
university life is unfortunately not what it could be.
Case in point: the Greek system.

Despite the best efforts of many fraternities to re-
cruit minorities just as actively as they recruit “main-
stream” students, relatively few minorities respond posi-
tively. Instead, they complain about the Greek system’s
focus on alcohol, and say that black Greek organiza-
tions are about much more than that, which is why
they won’t join our system. This is absolutely ludi-
crous: any fraternity brother will tell you that the party
his house hosts on a Friday or Saturday night reﬂects
only a fraction of what happens in the fraternity. Such
allegations do not do justice to the extensive philan-
thropic contributions of the Greek system, and reﬂect a
certain intolerance and prejudice on minorities’ part.

RIGHT-WING RESPONSE
IMRAN NAEEMULLAH ‘O5

ﬁrst couple of games I noticed
something from down on the
field, and quietly shrugged it

Sewanee, the team played better
in the first half than they did in
the second. Could one reason for

I for one sincerely hope that things get better in
the future. Instead of attempting to decrease the inﬂu-
ence and size of the Greek system, I hope the adminis-

Arts & Life Editor Catherine C. Guy
Sports Editor Jeremy Franklin
Asst. Sports Editor Dave Crowell

ARREIT AWS (2? lit
NEEDING SUPPORT. Generals fans shoul stick
around, lest they miss plays like this recent one.

 

. photo Editor Jeb Brooks off, however, after last week’s game, it struck a chord. that be the adrenaline rush of playing for a record tration chooses to actively encourage minorities to join
photographers Ta1]ieJan1es0n V I am standing right behind the end zone, about crowd wearing out in the second half when the play— the existing organizations, and lends them the support
Ban-ettpaws thirty seconds remaining to play in the second quar— ers came back onto the field with an empty grand— they need. In turn, I believe the system will respond

ter, and I look up into the stands and see a mass move-
ment towards the gate of Wilson Field. At first I felt
sorry for the people working in the hot dog stand as I
figured people were going to grab a bite to eat, how-
ever, when the buzzer blew, there they all went; right
out the gate! I stood there and thought to myself, why
would anyone want to leave this game? Our team was
holding a 20 to 0 lead against a long standing rival.
When the players returned to the field to resume
battle, I put my observation behind me and finished
watching what ended up being a great second half.

stand? We will never know, but that could be a possi-
bility.

So next time you go to a football game, or for that
matter any sporting event, try staying the entire game,
no matter the outcome. It is a respectful action as well
as our duty as W&L students to support our athlet-
ics. The football team’s last home game takes place on
November 9, at 1:00 PM against Emory and Henry. If
you have never been to a football game before, go to
this one; if you have been to a game before, try stay-
ing to the end.

positively, and welcome these open-minded, non—preju-
diced students just as it has been doing so for many
years with the relatively few such students it does re-
ceive.

As many a W&L alurrmus will tell you, what makes
W&L special is not its support for self-segregation.
Instead, its encouragement of individual expression
within a uniﬁed framework is its key to success. Rather
than changing the existing structure, which has worked
so well for so long, let’s instead rejuvenate it by ensur-
ing that all W&L students are a part of it.

Business Manager Paul Seifert
Asst. Business Manager Thomasworthy
Circulation Director Henry Grimball
Advertising Assistant McQueen Calvert

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee Univer-
I sity, Lexington, Virginia. The Washington and Lee Publi-
cations Board elects the Editors in chief, but The Ring-
tum Phi is otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible submis-
sions and letters. All submissions must be e-mailed to
I phi@wlu.edu or in the University Center mailbox by 5 _
p.m.Fridaytoappearinthefollowingweek’sedition. The ,   ,  V . “V. ~ 3" V ‘V   , . 3 i , . ’ '  " . . . g A. . . 
Ring-tumPhireservestherighttoeditsubmissionsforcon- ‘V  » f’ ’ My 2 .  g r ’ . . - I" " I , t’ -R C V: V" . . T, , >3 .0
tent and length. Letters and columns do not necessarily V ‘I ‘it "   . ’ it . _ V _ . t   ,    5 .   
reﬂecttheopinionofTheRing-lumPhiEditorialBoard. Ad— A . ’ ‘ 9 ‘ "   A -   * "  ._.   W  .  . i - ‘  V "  q ‘ 
it vertising does not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi
or its staff. This newspaper observes current court deﬁni-
tions of libel and obscenity.

 

The Ring-tum Phi
‘ Mailing Address: University Center
Washington and Lee University

Lexington, Virginia 24450

Street Address: 31 Washington Street
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060

I Fax: (540) 462-4059

Email: phi@wlu.edu

,' http://phi.wlu.edu

       

“I would be streaking the “Iwoulddothehokey-pokey and “I would tell Vin Diesel my

Colonnade.” tummyselfaround” name and number.”
-REID MANNING ‘06 -PIERCE OWENS ‘O6 -ANN HUNGERFORD ‘06

“I would bite Charlie Gibson’s

nose.”
-CLINT IRVIN ‘06

‘‘I would say ‘hi’ to my

mama and papa.”

A lS b ' ' R :$3O
nnua u scnption ate _MCLEAN MCGREGOR ‘O5

 

   

PAGE 4 H

j “spectacular,” “simply breath
' the summit was the pinnacle of our excursion into the

 

, Spring Break 2003 with STS

4; Sell Trips earn cash Travel Free

 

 

October 1 is China’s National Day. Their Indepen-

P denee Day is celebrated with parades, festivals, ﬂowers
I and unlike July 4th, a weeklong vacation. Not wanting to
V appeartoo foreign, my program also took avacation and
Tuesday found us in the mountainside
4 hamlet ofTai Bai ShanorTooWhite Moun-
, tam.

Other students tell me the mountain is
' g”andthatthehiketo

countryside. Will I ever know ﬁrsthand of its grandeur
and awesome beauty? Not unless I return to Tai Bai

4 Shari, for while China was celebrating the success of the

Communist revolution with ﬁreworks, I had ﬁreworks of
my own, but of the gastrointestinal sort.

I’m still trying to nail down the exact source ofmy
food poisoning. It could have been lunch at the archaeo-
logical site, the apples afterward or dimer in the small,
local Tai Bai Shan restaurant. Ultimately, this proves tobe
of little importance, because, regardless of the source, I

Letters to the Editor

Owen’s piece ‘illogical, uninformed’

Dear Editor,

I am writing in reference to Ryan Owen’s piece
on the EC’s budget allocations to the Minority
Student Association. I once thought that Brett
Kirwan’s pro-sweat shop commentary would be
the illogical and uninformed thing I would see
printed in a student publication during my time
here at W&L. Last week, I was proven wrong.

There is not a liberal conspiracy being run
out of the EC office. The EC does not distribute
money according to special interests. Mr. Owen
noted that the College Republicans and GCF does

‘not receive any money. Just to test his theory of

special interest funding, I sent out an e-mail to the
EC members, asking them if they belonged to
MSA, College Republicans, or GCF. Of the seven
members who responded, six are members of Col-
lege Republicans and four are members of GCF.

, None of them are members of MSA. Perhaps Mr.

Owen should have picked a ﬁght with the word-

ing of the budget allocation procedures that do
not allow funding of politically or ideologically
_ based organizations and not the EC for funding
‘ according to its own guidelines.

The MSA is more than another Contact Com-

4 mittee. For some reason or another, Mr. Owen has

developed this idea that the sole purpose of the
MSA is to bring speakers here. That couldn’t be
more false. The money that goes to the MSA funds

L many programs during Hispanic Heritage Month,

Black History Month, Womens’ Month, and Asian
Heritage Month. They are largely responsible for

; the MLK Jr. Celebration in February. They host

activities during Homecoming and Parents’ Week-

3 end in addition to the Annual Jazz Cabaret. They
contribute to LIFE’s “A -Night to Remember,”

Project Hope, HRA’s Food Drive, and they volun-

Ii teer through Nabors Service League. And that’s

in addition to bringing excellent speakers here like

A poet and author Maya Angelou, activist Yolanda

King, and editorialist Ruben Navarrette (not

4 “Ruben Everett,” as Mr. Owen claims). And if you
, want to call into question the utility of the MSA
.’ bringing minority speakers here, it should be noted
I that Contact has not had a minority speaker here

in the past two years. Not a single one. Simply,

I putting all of this together comes at a price.

So to Mr. Owen, if you want to attack the way
the system is set up, ﬁne. Good for you. Maybe
the rules surrounding the budget distribution will

be changed. But if you’re going to attack organi-
: zations for providing alternatives to students on
j this campus, you better have the facts to back up
' your claims. And you Mr. Owen, don’t have the
/facts. You’ve successfully managed to throw

around biased claims of misappropriation of funds
without doing any research whatsoever. If you
want an issue to investigate, why not ask the ad-
ministration and trustees why there’s only $350,
000 for all student organizations. That’s a laugh-
able amount compared to most schools.

OWll\ill)NS

was up all Tuesday night and most of Wednesday with
a severe fever, terriﬁc nauseaand explosive diarrhea. Who
would’ve guessed that Chinese has an expression for
simultaneously vomiting and expelling diarrheal stool?

Well, it does and lots of other

LIVE FROM CHINA colorfully descn-PM mm,
BRETT KIRWAN ‘O4 V°Cab“‘a‘¥- _

~‘%{—~ Defyingalladvicetothe

contrary,ImadethegraveenoroffallingillinChina
However, thanks to the diligence of the local doctors,
hospital and hotel staff, not to mention some very caring
classmates, Iarnnow both alive and well The experience
highlighted a number of cultural differences.

Firstly, thank heaven for the overpopulation in
China. One side effect is the complete overstaﬁing of
every shop, stall, hotel, attraction and to11rist trap. As
such, when I was laid up with an IV drip for 36 hours,
there were seven or eight different hotel employees ea-
gerly helping by boiling water, adjusting my blankets,
checking the speed of my drip and just smiling a whole

Kirwan studies Chinese medicine first hand

lot The average Holiday Inn might have two desk clerks
and four or ﬁve cleaning ladies during the day. It seemed
as if the Tai Bai Vacation Vrlla had ten employees just on
my ﬂoor.

Additionally, the Chinese are much quicker to pre-
scribeanIVthanaWestern doctor. Ir1theU.S., otherthan
for anesthesia, I have never had an IV. In China, no less
than ﬁve separate bottles of antibiotics, glucose and
saline solution werepurnpedinto me. Luckily, theneedles
are disposable and, who knows why, all the hotel service
personnel seernedtoknow howtochangeanIV.

Finally, if you ever travel to China to visit geologic
wonders, think twice about going to Tai Bai Shari See
theThreeGorges,theTrbetansteppesortlIeGobiDesert
To date, at least ﬁfteen fellow students have taken ill
following our trip to the mountainside holiday play-
ground In fact, but for the help of my healthy classmates
and teachers, the hotel staff, gallons of IV ﬂuid, and one
massive shot in the rear, I might have been left on that
mountainside.

Sincerely,
Phil Walotsky ‘05

Anti-MSA article biased, racist in views

I was reading the funny papers the other
day and I ran across this comic strip that I
thought was just simply hilarious. It was about
this student that called, e—mailed, and gener-
ally harassed these members of the Minority
Student Association. He tried to do interviews,
tried to get our budget, and then wrote an ar-
ticle in the school paper about his misadven-
tures. I know it’s funny already, but here’s the
punch line...He said that minorities on this
campus had too much access to university re-
sources. L.O.L. Quickly I realized that the joke
was really on me; this guy was actually seri-
ous. Is this guy just racist or just really stu-
pid? Maybe both? Well here’s my take on the
issue. ,

With the lighter side of this discussion put
aside, I will delve into something with a little
more substance. I will try to ignore specifics
like Hugh Downs’ suggestion that CONTACT
should bring, or is capable of bringing, relevant
minority speakers; there isn’t enough Advil in
the world. I will simply focus on the main point:
Minorities are given too much money. There
are many ways to shred this argument, but I
will take the financial analysis route. Get your
spreadsheets ready!

John Stossel seems to think that W&L pro-
vides more than adequate resources for its mi-
nority students. Well if Geraldo had ever vis-
ited a similar institution he would know that
there are several glaring resource omissions at
our school. Let’s start with Staff. Most schools
of our size and reputation have multicultural
offices. We do not. We do not even have one
staffer. That’s right, zero! Second, many
schools of our size and reputation have
multicultural buildings independent of hous-
ing and university commons. These are places
to hold special events, keep art, and house the
multicultural department, among many other
things. This school also has an inadequate
multicultural studies program. Here, you are
lucky to find a multicultural class, much less
major in it. In fact, I was surprised to find re-
cently that I couldn’t take two such classes
next term because they are scheduled at the
same time. This school even allowed one of
the top young black professors in this country
to leave for Vanderbilt last year. He wanted to
stay. What do you think might have persuaded
him to go? Essentially what this school has
done is given us $14,000 to keep our mouths
shut about these things. Well now I have been
given sufficient impetus to speak. Thanks
Donahue!

Let’s not go too far and just stop right
there. There need be no mention of MSA; let’s
just talk about aggregate funds for

multicultural related activities.

I am a business major so I would be remiss
if I did not attempt to price the four-year cost
of all the aforementioned items. Well first, let’s
add a three person multicultural staff being
paid at $35,000 a year. We’ll add a building
priced at $500,000 with $50,000 maintenance
and janitors each year. Then let’s add a staff
for Multicultural studies. Let’s say that this
department would have 3 professors and a sec-
retary, each at an average of $45,000 a year.
Now let’s total it from 2000 to 2003 (or my 4
academic years). I thought about adding an
“intellectual enrichment” interest rate, but that
would be “unnecessary roughness.” However,
our four-year total is still $1.8 million. Make
the cashier’s check payable to “Unnecessarily
Attacked Minorities” and don’t touch our EC
funds.

I will leave the issue with this. It has been
said that blacks such as myself live by the
“Wish Factor.” This means that we wish folks
would try some foolishness. It is true in this
case. I enthusiastically wish the EC would re-
duce funding to MSA next year. I would bring
my alumni card down here just as fast as my
car could go. I would just go straight to the
President’s office and let him know just how I
felt about it. I would tell him that his school
was not living up to his own expectations and
how they better get on some of these other
items real quick. The trouble for the school is
that I don’t think I would be alone. There are
many students that have already graduated and

endured the absurdity of students on this cam- 

pus that would love to do the same. People
should know that minorities do not come to
Lexington, Virginia, of all places, to be harassed
by silly students and their silly ideas. If people
want us to leave, too bad. We are here for good
so get used to it. And get used to a new word,
its called “progress.”

Sincerely,

Toussaint Crawford ‘03

OWEN RESPONDS:

While Mr. Walotsky and particularly Mr.
Crawford make convincing arguments for wor-
thy causes, neither truly addresses what I said in
my article last week. The greatest intention of my
article last week was to point out that the Stu-
dent Activity Fee is not being used in the way it
was intended or the way it is purported to be
used. The current state allows one group, al-
though deserving of funding, to steal from all
other groups. I did not intend to be racist in
choosing the MSA as my example; I simply picked
the grossest example of my point. If you have any-
thing at all to say relative to my article, please
feel free to contact me. I kindly repeat my call for
students to become more aware of the situation
surrounding the funding of campus organiza-
tions, and furthermore to become involved.

  

Want to be
heard on
campus? Write
for the Phi.
Contact Irrrran
at X4060 or
phi@wlu.edu.

Americas #1 Student Tour
Operator

lnforrnation/Reservations
1-800-648-4849 or
www.ststravel.com

A MIND OF STATE

 

TEX - LEX

2002

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 2002

Avoid death penalty for snipers

 

rem COLTESY or inW<ErEc1R1cH.4rRco

THE HUI‘ SEAT. There’ll be a hot time in the old time tonight if Ashcroft gets his way.

So as I start writing my column
for this week I have in front of me a
letter I found on the Washington Post 3"
website. It is a mirror copy of a letter
from Virginia Attorney General Jerry
Kilgore to the US Attorney General
John Ashcroft. If you
know my politics at
all, you know that I
am hardly a fan of
Mr. Ashcroft. Well,
Mr. Kilgore is hardly a favorite of mine
at the moment, either.

Acting with the blessing of
Democratic Governor Mark Warner,
Kilgore wrote to Ashcroft requesting
that Virginia and Maryland be allowed
to prosecute the accused in the DC
area sniper case. This would keep the
case out of federal courts, thus allow-
ing for Virginia to pursue the death
penalty on both John Allan
Muhammad and John Lee Malvo, the
latter being a juvenile.

However, a kink may have been
thrown in this plan as reports released
Friday indicate that investigators in
Baton Rouge, Louisiana, have linked
the gun used in the attacks in DC to an
attempted robbery and murder there at
a hair salon. If this pans out that now
means that there will be three states
lining-up to prosecute these two men.
CNN also said on Friday that Attorney
General Ashcroft indicated investiga-
tors are looking for more suspects in
that case. These factors could possi-
bly push the case into federal courts.

None of these things really have
me in an uproar. What I am concerned
about is the punishment that would
face those convicted of these crimes,
be it Muhammad, Malvo, or anyone
else for that matter. Nationwide, com-
passion and sympathy has been
shown for the families and victims of
these shootings. For this the citizens
of this country are to be commended
and celebrated. It seems that we rec-
ognize the death of others, knowing
nothing about them at all, as a truly
horrible thing.

However, when it comes to the
criminals themselves, our political lead-
ers, and truly, the public as a whole

LEFT OF CENTER
NICK RAMSEY ‘()3

want nothing more than to see the
guilty dead. What has truly depressed
me is, according to CNN, that
Muhamrnad’s former wife and his son
have stated they support the use of
the death penalty against Muhammad
if he is convicted.

Current atti-
tudes against Iraq
and those accused
in the sniper case
show America is bent on getting ven-
geance These attitudes are fueled by
massive amounts of fire power in the
case of Iraq and antiquated forms of
“justice” in the case against
Muhammad and Malvo. If death is
such a horrible thing for the irmocent,
why are we so quick to change our
minds with criminals?

Equality and the protection of life .

are basic rights deemed fundamental
by the documents written by our
founding father. Ifthese rights are truly
universal and absolute, they should
apply to those most detested by soci-
ety. This is the greatest test of our col-
lective tolerance. This is not to say that
these men deserve to run free. In cases
of crimes this heinous, life without pa-
role is truly in order.

But even religious groups and in-
dividuals, typically the conservative
sort, tend to support the death pen-
alty. This goes against the teachings
of all of the worlds prominent religions.
I fail to understand why the promise of
eternal consequence is not enough to
alleviate their desire for justice. Any
earthly death is nothing compared to
the promise of eternal damnation. But
again, this is nothing for men to be
concerned about. For those that be-
lieve in a higher power, religious teach-
ings indicate that it is for Him or Her
and not us to be concerned with such
things.

Thus, if my ramblings have done
anything, I hope that they have made
my readers pause and evaluate their
feelings on capital punishment. Do we
as a society really need the deaths of
anyone, be they murders, rapists, or
terrorists, on our collective con-
science?

.- .5
‘5 “N «ox

$.11 3 I-\...~=

Notegrasse, ,-

  

"<\"7‘
2’ ”“_
i:i‘a.txl,,,
 ‘gt’     
‘  {twat   r.i/=...... is...-»~.z..§‘x.....2

Upcoming Events;

-w ..~ t v-'~-2 ~s‘_;. "‘ “ )
 at ‘%.3.:r::%; t...-.rt.i%.’...§,,,,§»w"«

 .,.. ._ .. it, .. ”*', at
 at 2:s<:.: {,-.§..:x..,.§_,,,j+«v
‘ gave 
‘K . & l V r us 1
.5‘ ‘xi. at... zeta.‘ is §‘%.:},,,:’

,‘r_7ouv. "W"

M « .;..%é.>.:a at i- 

s:..

are t, E
W

  sit 
I-.=.tct~\r,“‘<~ 

_ 1 4 . X 1..
E4“ °";al-Q sr‘\ - ﬁg  / ‘ 2:‘:
4. ii "xi 623%,.  *=»..$..€..

 1,. ,.b H . .
g i

    
 
  

Ci Ge 

 
   
 
 

 lit?‘ .4
uitk 9*‘

 

The new Wastmirggtrrzn Past Electrmic Editican is the perfect way ta get. The Past when you iive outaiée the
heme deiivery area“. when vtnfre at schml... am: when V01: still want In enfezzsr the 130$, fee and ccmtext.
01’ The Pzzstfs print s.=:dit.ir::n.

Get. it deiiverved digitally td yrmar camputer or Iaptup ﬁrgt thing every marning, seven éays 3 week, at home,
d-arm, crmce, —an1.rwhe:=e.

Looks}u$tiike'Ti1e Post because it is The Past.

1 is an exact dégltal repiica of the davfs prim ediﬁon.

includes articie-5, p'ham5, c.ﬁi.um.nists., comics, graphics and ads.
Searchahla and in_tera.ct:iv‘e.

See how right? the marning Feels with The Was‘h'Engt:;m Post.deiive1'~e& your way, every day.

if E Bil! lllﬂflfﬂ almut  Washington NS! ectrenit: WWO -
Hlcllillillﬁ IIGW WI! Eﬁli 9381 H FREE ml‘ M8 WBBKS-HE

C021-It-9* WEEL

 

  

PAGE 6

BY SHARYN REGAN
SFAW WRITER

As fall term draws to a close, the
thought of Greek life among
freshmen changes from an abstract
concept to something that is both
concrete and looming on the horizon.
As a freshman, I know very little
about the topic of sorority
recruitment at this point, although I
certainly plan on participating in it in
all of its ‘daunting glory this winter.
There are, however, a few important
rules that I’ve learned during my
short time here at W&L. These are
basic rules of behavior that should
help you to know how to present
yourself best come January. Let me
enlighten you as to what I have
discovered so far:

1. Do not ask an upper class
female what sorority she is in. She
may become insulted and think that
you are only speaking with her in
an attempt to wheedle your way into
her sorority. Talk to her as a friend,
not as a ticket into a particular
sorority.

2. Be yourself. Someone who
is overly enthusiastic or fake will
seem pathetic not only to her peers,
but to possible sorority sisters as

 

well. Dress how you like to dress,
say what you’d usually say, behave
how you always behave (within
reason).

3. Be careful who you flirt with.
You just may, unbeknownst to you,
be flirting with a sorority girl’s
boyfriend and that will not make her
or any of her friends very happy. In
fact, it will probably make them all hate
you.

4. Do not be sexually
promiscuous. I cannot emphasize
this point enough. Washington and
Lee is a small school, and people will
find out about your escapades.
Sororities do not want bad
reputations, and if you have one it
will reflect poorly upon whatever
sorority you choose, and they may
not want to accept you due to your
reputation.

5. Do not overindulge or
underindulge in “the drink”.
Demonstrate that you are both fun
and responsible/respectable.
Nobody likes a sloppy drunk.
Nobody likes a party pooper
either.

6. Dance only under the
proper circumstances. Dancing on
coffee tables when everyone
around you is sitting around
engaged in quiet conversations

Tllli RING-IURI PI

Recruitment: think about it l

makes you look stupid, and
sorority sisters will probably recall
you negatively instead of fondly
if you’ve made a complete fool of
yourself.

7. Anything documented and
easily accessible [read: the World Wide
Web] should not be distasteful.
Enough said.

8. Do not try to fit certain

stereotypes. Either you get along.

with the girls or you don’t. It’s very
simple. Don’t try to change
yourself to become more like what
you feel is desirable to a particular
house.

9. Meet as many people as
possible and remain open—minded.
Don’t dismiss girls or sororities based
on certain rumors or labels.

10. Don’t stress. The
sorority rush system is designed
so that everything works out for
the best, for the most part. As
corny as this may sound, be the
best you that you can be, have
fun, and you will find somewhere
that you fit in.

If you just follow these simple
guidelines and any others that you
may have discovered and rush
should be an enjoyable learning
experience with a positive outcome.
Good luck!

Nightly breakdown sheds light on rush

ease about the upcoming week.

“& LIEE

CAIIIERINE L. Gw

 

BY CATHERINE C. GUY
ARIS & LIFE EDITOR

After a relaxing Christmas break, Washington and
Lee’s student body descends upon Lexington anxious to
‘dive into winter term headﬁrst. However, before such
winter highlights as Lip Synch and FD can begin, freshmen
go through one of the longest and most emotional weeks
‘of their college careers; Rush Week.

Two hundred freshman girls stand in the bitter cold
of early January, each one impeccably dressed and
groomed and with a nervous smile on her face. They
‘apprehensively chatter with their friends as they stand,
shivering, in alphabetical order. Suddenly the door of
‘each sorority house bursts open, and the freshmen are
‘greeted with 90 identically dressed and singing
_upperclassmen. Does this sound a little intimidating?

Actually, it is not as bad as you might think. What
freshmen girls often don’t know and don’t expect is that
Sorority Recruitment is actually a lot of fun. You have the
opportunity to meet countless upperclassmen as well as
your own classmates, some of whom will become your

close friends in the months to come. You participate in
‘numerous activities as each sorority attempts to convince
you of how happy you will be once you join.
Here is a nightly breakdown of what goes on during
that first week of winter term. Maybe by demystifying the
process, we can make the process a little less daunting for
everyone involved.
Monday: Philanthropy Night. Monday is the most
casual night of the week. All of the girls go to each of the
,ﬁve houses clad in casual attire. Each house has its own

philanthropies, and the freshmen make crafts for these
vcharities. Basically, Philanthropy Night consists of a lot

of talking to and meeting people, while working on a none-
:too—difficult project, which the sororities then donate to
their respective charities. This night is generally
successful at putting all of the participants a little bit at

    

Tuesday: Skit Night. Tuesday is, without a doubt, the
most fun night of the entire week. Freshmen attend four
parties, still in casual attire. At each house, the freshmen
watch a humorous skit, complete with songs, dances,
dialogue, and refreshments. Freshmen have the chance to
talk to the upperclassmen before and after the skit, and
everyone leaves with an amused smile on her face.

Wednesday: Sisterhood Night. On Wednesday night,
things become a little bit more restrained, and the
participants wear more formal outﬁts. Freshmen begin to
narrow down their choices by going only to three houses,
and therefore spend more time at each of these houses.
Sisterhood night generally consists of a movie or
slideshow which demonstrates the different activities and
interests of the members of the sorority in all aspects of
life from social, to athletic, to activities. The movies may
be accompanied by songs and dances. Wednesday night
ends with the freshmen having a better understanding of
what sorority life is like.

Thursday: Pref Night. Pref Night is the most serious
as well as dressiest night of the week, and the freshmen
have narrowed down their choices to two houses. This
evening generally consists of a ritual based event in which
the upperclassmen attempt to convince the freshmen of
how much they love their sorority and why the freshmen
should want to be a part of them. After the Pref parties,
freshmen walk back to the dining hall in silence and ﬁll out
scantron—like cards in which they list their choices in order.
Panhellenic then matches freshmen to the houses, and
bids are delivered on Friday afternoon.

As someone who has been through the process twice,
once on each side, the best advice that I can give to
freshman is that they be themselves and keep an open
mind. Things tend to work out for the best in the end, and
taking any preconceived notions or stereotypes in with
you will only hurt you. A lot of minds are changed during
recruitment week. In the end, you will ﬁnd the place that is
best for you.

Not justagame,a
tradition; Drinking
games, such as
beiruit, or beer
pong shown on
the left, have been
a part of W&L’s
party scene for
years. Now,
however, the
Alcohol Task
Force has ended
the reign of such
games on school
property. The
article to the right
provides some
creativealternatives.

ll'I'['P'.Wl~lOlv1EJ5All'Ill1ll\ll£l\."ET/~(IrlO\\L’DH)/Bl)/PAGES/lNDEQ.H1‘l\l

Happy Hundredth, Mom!

Love, the Phi Staff

 

ARlS&LlPEEDllOR '
FJ\lAlL'GLY LEDU
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 2002
V
V
)
In
it
V.
it
V
Y
9
Unwelcome The reaction by some meers of the student body to‘ thecolonization of soros 089.  to ay, e
sororities were viewed negatively by the males of campus, as can be seen in this cartoon from the Rz'ng—2‘ur/2 Pbi, onjanuary ll, 1990
i
E h°b't ' D tth' k
}«‘ROMg1"AFFRE1>QR’[3 based on an antique biology on the one hand we capture,killand ‘
collection discovered at his home eat anirnals,onthe other, we extoltheir
Beginning today Robert Sulkin school of Hollins. He re— virtues in nature, literature, myth and
Professor 0fArt at Hollms University: contextualizes various bird, reptile art. . _ .
. . . . . . and mammal specimens that have Sulkin received his MFAfrom the F
is exhibiting a collection of his recent , . _ , .
photographs here at Washington and been stuffed or floated in University of Iowa and has exhibited
Lee,S dupom Gallery The openin formaldehyde. The result is astudy widely, both nationally and
reception and artist  will be hekgl of mortality as well as one of the internationally. He has taught at
on Friday’ November 8 at 5:30 pm All delicate balance between horror and Hollms since 1980 and has served two
are invited. beauty. terms as the Chair of the Art
Sulkhfs exhibit vvhichis entitled His more recent works Department. Locally, his workcan also
..Bi010gica1St.1uL.1feS’.,reﬂeCtShiS1jfe_ incorporate bones and dried animal be seen at the Lexington Art Gallery.
long interest in congtructed images remains harvested from a ﬁeld near His duPont exhibit will run from
involving models and arrangements’ his home. He explores the tensions November 4 to December 13, 2002. b
that he Created and photographed in between life and death and the Gallery hours are Monday through
the Studio‘ Part ofthe Shovvincludes contradictory behavior of humans Friday,'8:00 to 5:00. For more
,, . . . ,, . toward animals. He feels that, while iriforrnation,call463-8861.
the Nobilis in Morte series, a study
i
’ I 0
Take a closer look at one of W &L s ﬁner traditions
By BRYAN EARLY and let the goodness of vintage 1970s steel fill you
 up until you no longer possess the ability to see or
think. ’
Disc—Up: The Two Dead Guys, W&L’s up-and-
SeenF3::rH);:::n1{gn§l: :,:§)o:I:(?i?:iI1é:1::rg13)' Zrlfrzrfzfiilrﬁi coming powerhouse ultimate Frisbee team has been
and Sa that a very 1ar’ge portion of the campus has known to be composed of some of the rowdiest, most g
t  d the. h d t few of them But the IFC and self—destructive and belligerent disc—huckers this side
teli’endne'nistr:tio2i1nh:vea stated that as the are a art of the Appalachian Mountains" The key to their
eda Ilnht I Sa an inte ml art’ of th: notogous’ uncanny ability to put down all of their opponents
ail :1 llg It reyher t évashlin {on and Lee the off—the Frisbee field, is their ability to chug 40 ounces _
ahco 1: C1: bu 110 Z: in on if from of or End; of malt liquor goodness straight from the disc. While ’
S on 10 .1‘; a  t 0’ u’knOw drunlgtunnelin the occasional dried leaf or clump ofirnud gets
 a uloodnigdseggus 5 yo ’ g accidentally downed along with the frothy delight, by
S 51 ff. . '11 th do indeed remain strike the time you’re done you really just don’t care about
° W ‘ ° ° ‘C13 V “V ' things like that. ,

tastic, does that mean that people are really going stop
playing them? Of course not. You would be a fool to
think that simple rules would stop the proliferation of
drinking games here at our fine academic institution.
As long as there are freshmen girls who will be
impressed by the fact that a frat guy can sink nine cups
to her one in a game of beruit, alcohol games will always
be a part of parties at Washington and Lee. Besides, if
you know what you want to do with your evening (and
you know that what you want to is get drunk), then
why not have a little bit more fun while being social
about doing it?

Thus, adhering to that well-known and ancient
Confucian proverb, “Fun is fun, but more fun is more
fun,” I will add to the general knowledge of those who
want to spice up their mundane lives with a bit with a
series of quick briefs about a few of these more off—the-
beaten track Forbidden Games. These go beyond the
old standard games such as beiruit, ﬂip cup, a**hole,
and suits, and add a bit more color to each weekends
lineup.

Oil Change: This one is a classic over the border
in West Virginia, our illustrious neighbor to the west.
First, you need to locate and gain temporary
possession of an old American car that has already
been seasoned out in the elements for at least twenty
years and hasn’t been driven for about as long
either. You also need to have in your possession
several gallons of moonshine. Then you fill up the
oil tank with your beverage of choice (here’s where
the oldness of the car comes in, so the oil is all
dried out and can be replaced cleanly with the
aforementioned moonshine) and fight your way
through the powerful ecosystem that has been
developing underneath your car, pull the oil plug

Circle of Annihilation: You get four decks of cards
and you deal them out in eight, concentric rings. The
cards have point values, much like in Black Jack and
each ring is multiplied by the number of rings it is away

from the outermost ring. Then you pick any card and call ‘

the color (red or black, for those of you who have never
had the pleasure of playing)——if you’re right, you choose
one of your co—players whom you don’t like very much

and they are forced to drink that number of sips of beer. 5

If you’re wrong, however, you have to do it. This game
has been banned in several states, as well as in French
Guinea, where the entire country’s fraternity system

tragically wiped itself out in the late 70s playing this
3

game.

Flip-Table: This game is quite similar to its tamer and
better known cousin “Flip Cup,” only it’s considerably
more destructive as well as a good deal more fun. It’s best

to set up in an open and empty ﬁeld, putting a good i

distance between the opposing teams. Then you measure
from the start to anywhere from around 30 yards to 2.7
miles for a finish line, prepare several cases of beer, and
get set to play. The teams line up and, in succession,
pound their drinks. When they ﬁnish, they flip over their *‘
respective tables—attempting to get as much distance on
it as possible. They set it up again where it lands and keep
going until they cross the line, pass out, or get their table
stuck up in a tree. i
So this coming weekend, when you get tired of sitting
around in your basement and sipping on yet another case

of Natty with your friends while watching something less

than stimulating on TV, I suggest that you start up an
impromptu round of one of these pleasurable activities. I!
guarantee that you will be, without a doubt, the most
popular person around for days, and maybe even week
to come. I‘

 

    

]l'<RElilYl*lW\l1{llN
SPOKISEDHOR
FMAll:FRtN1\1ll\l]@\V1L‘E)U

 

THE li1NG~Ttl.\:i Pa

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 2002

PORTS

PAGE 7

&L beat ridgewater, advances in ODACS

Generals avenge 1-1 tie
from regular season, look
for revenge against Va.
Wesleyan in semifinals

BY DAVID CROWELL
.lS$lSTANT SPORTS EDITOR

The Washington and Lee
women’s soccer team took the first
step towards trying to become the
ﬁrst—ever group in program history to
win the Old Dominion Athletic Con-
ference Tournament with a 2-0
quarterﬁnal victory over Bridgewater
on Saturday afternoon at the Liberty
Hall Fields.

With the win, the Generals also
avenged a 1-1 tie with the Eagles from
Oct. 19. The tie destroyed hopes of
W&L earning the top seed in the tour-
nament and, according to coach Neil
Cunningham, provided plenty of moti-
vation for his squad to exact vengeance.

“We certainly had our own moti-
vation to come out and win. They
were disappointed with the tie and that
Bridgewater stopped us from being

Wesleyan avenges loss,
ends men’s soccer year

Generals fall to Bridgewater, VWC to end 2002 campaign

BY JEREMY FRANKLIN
SPORTS EDITOR

The Washington and Lee men’s
soccer team didn’t ﬁnish the season
on a strong note, falling to
Bridgewater in the regular-season
ﬁnale and dropping a 4-0 decision
to Virginia Wesleyan in the
quarterﬁnals of the Old Dominion
Athletic Conference Tournament.

The Generals forfeited the right I
to open the ODAC Tournament by
losing a 1-0 match to the Eagles at
the Turf Field on Wednesday. W&L
had plenty of chances, but couldn’t
convert against Eagles goalkeeper
Jon Boller.

“I think our kids weren’t real
sharp today,” W&L coach Rolf
Piranian said.
“We played
pretty ﬂat, and
we struggled to
put things to-
gether. We’ve
got to play our
game, 90 min-
utes of it, and
we didn’t see that today.”

Despite being outshot 17-9,
Bridgewater had several decent scor-
ing opportunities. Griff Diguardo
beat W&L senior goalie Tim Foley
following a free kick at 36:55 of the
ﬁrst half.

John Williamson had a couple
of opportunities to add to the
Eagles’ advantage in the second half,
but he shot wide twice.

The Generals failed to convert
on several scoring chances, espe-
cially in the ﬁnal minutes of the
game. Senior forward Brad Murphy

 

PIMNLAN

TOURNAMENT WIN. Senior defender Lindsey Duran (13) and the
Generals defeated Bridgewater 2-0 in the ODAC quarterﬁnals on

the No. 1 seed,” he said. “I didn’t
have to remind them in practice. The
girls knew they could beat them and
came out and did that.”

sent a couple of shots just wide of
the net, and junior midﬁelder Jacob
Stoehr drilled one off the crossbar
in the ﬁnal minute.

The 1-0 win marked the first time
the Eagles had beaten W&L, and
Bridgewater’s 5 -4 conference record
was its first-ever winning mark in the
ODAC.

“They beat us, and they
haven’t beaten us before,” Piranian
said. “They’re pretty athletic, they
did the things they do well, and put
their chance away. I guess they’re
improved.”

W&L’s season ended in Norfolk
on Saturday, as Virginia Wesleyan
avenged a 4-1 loss from Oct. 26 with
a 4-0 win to knock the Generals out
of the ODAC Tournament.

After playing to a scoreless tie at
halftime, the Marlins got on the board
at 50:57 on a goal by Pat McStay. Foley
was ejected after receiving a red card
at 66:50, and Wesleyan converted on
the penalty kick.

The Marlins added a pair of in-
surance goals against freshman keeper
Michael Stanton, while Wesleyan
keeper Sean Wheaton made four
saves to record the shutout.

The Generals ﬁnished the season
at 7-9-2, 5-4 in the ODAC. That’s afar
cry from 1-5-1 and 0-3, where W&L
found itself at the end of September.

“Give credit to the kids, because
they’ve hung tough through some
tough times and played some good
soccer,” Piranian said. “They’ve
battled their way to get us out of
that hole. The games we’ve lost since
that stretch have all been heartbreak-
ers, where we’ve had our chances
and just didn’t convert.”

W&L SPORTS SCHEDULES NOVEMBER 4-10

Friday, Nov. 8
Field Hockey (ODAC Semiﬁnals)
W&L at Lynchburg, 11:30 am.
Women’s Soccer (ODAC Semifinals)
W&L vs. Virginia Wesleyan (at Roanoke),
2 p.m.
Volleyball (ODAC Quarterfinals)
W&L vs. TBD (at Eastern Mennonite),
5 p.m.
Men’s and Women's Swimming
Randolph-Macon at W&L, 7 p.m.

Saturday, Nov. 9
Wrestling
W&L at McDaniel Invitational, 10 a.m.

Volleyball (ODAC Tournament at EMU)
W&L in Semifinals, 10:30 a.m.

W&L in Finals, 3 p.m.

Field Hockey (ODAC Finals)
W&L/Lynchburg vs. EMUlFioanoke (at

Lynchburg), 1 p.m.

Football

Emory & Henry at W&L, 1 p.m.
Women’s Soccer (ODAC Finals)
W&L/VWC vs. RoanokelLynchburg (at

Roanoke), 1:30 p.m.
Men's Swimming
W&L at Mary Washington, 2 p.m.

 Amamttai Geiger’ never saw the clsmnk driver.

‘ V Frinndu nan»: Lu Briana cmuunmnu.

For most of the first half, the
third-seeded Generals -— the 16th-
ranked team in Division IH — seemed
to encounter the same problem as

FIIE PHOIO

Saturday at the Liberty Hall Fields behind goals from sophomore
Molly Plurrirner (9) and freshman Gina Von Stemberg.

‘they did in their previous match ver-

sus Bridgewater.
The W&L offense clearly set the
tone and kept the ball in the Eagles’

zone throughout the first 45 minutes,
but failed to muster a goal. Freshman
midﬁelder Gina Von Stemberg had a
couple of good looks, but nothing
materialized.

At the 21:30 mark, sophomore
forward Molly Plummer collided with
the goalie and the ball trickled toward
the goal line, but was saved by a
Bridgewater defender.

Despite the failure to capitalize
on a clear shot advantage in the first
half, Cunningham said his team stayed
composed at halftime.

“We did the same thing the last
time we played them. We had lots and
lots of shots, but we almost needed
an early goal to settle us down,” he
said. “We were much better this time
because we didn’t hit the panic but-
ton and we knew we still had plenty
of time.

“If we keep creating chances,
we’ll get one eventually.”

The Generals continued to fire
away as the defense played superb
with freshman Heather Rogers mov-
ing the ball upfield a number of
times to keep the Eagles on their
heels.

“We have to play well in the back.
We’re not going to blow teams out,
so we need to win 1-0 or 2-0. We have
to shut teams down,” Cunningham
said.

The Generals ﬁnally got one past
Bridgewater goalkeeper Julianne
Blevins when Plummer scored on a
header off a centering pass from
sophomore forward Maggie Hope at
49:32.

“That goal was really pretty. It
was probably one of our nicest goals
of the season,” Cunningham said. “It
was well-created and it was a great
ﬁnish.”

The Generals continued to con-
trol the ball and — despite a long run
down the ﬁeld by Bridgewater’s top
scorer, Sarah Pritchett —— kept the
Eagles from threatening.

Von Stemberg ﬁnished the scor-
ing at 82:29 after a well-executed ﬂip

* throw by senior midﬁelder Jenny Tho-

mas led to a jumble in front of the net.
The Generals return to action
when they travel to host city Roanoke
to face No. 2 Virginia Wesleyan, the
only team to beat W&L during the
regular season, at 2 p.m. on Friday.

Generals win 1st tournament match

BY BARRETT DAWS
SPORTS WRITER

On Saturday, the fourth-seeded
Washington and Lee field hockey
team won its ﬁrst—ever Old Dominion
Athletic Conference Tournament vic-
tory as it defeated ﬁfth-seeded Virginia
Wesleyan, 1-0, on the W&L Turf Field.

Excitement was high as the Gen-
erals took the ﬁeld. “Being in our first
ODAC Tournament really gave us
something to ﬁght for,” said freshman
goaltender Courtney Harrison, who
recorded one save in her 35 minutes
in goal.

W&L (10-8) outplayed the Mar-
lins (7-9) in everyaspect. The Gener-
als held a 7-0 edge in penalty comers
and outshot Wesleyan 15-2.

The Generals scored the game’s
only goal with 11:08 remaining in the
second half. Junior forward Kelly
Taffe took charge of a loose ball and
passed it to freshman forward
Elisabeth Putney, who then pro-
ceeded to shoot and ﬁnd the back of
the cage.

After the game, Putney was ec-
static about her team’s performance,

F1113 PHOIO

QUARTERFINAL WIN. Sophomore Grace Barlow (12) and junior Kelly Taffe helped
lead W&L to a 1-0 win over  Wesleyan in the ODAC Tournament on Saturday.

saying that the team “really came to-
gether and played great.”

Only feeding this excitement level
was the home-ﬁeld advantage. For the
Generals, the beneﬁts of playing at
home this weekend were twofold.

First, the energy of the “great
crowd which was always at our backs
offering support” greatly affected
W&L’s performance, Harrison said.

The second advantage for the
Generals was the ﬁeld itself. W&L is

accustomed to playing on artificial
turf, and Eastern Mennonite is the
only other ODAC school to play its
home games on turf.

“The turf always makes a huge
difference in both the speed and pass-
ing ability of each team,” Harrison
said.

Harrison and classmate Elise
Gelinas combined to shut out Virginia
Wesleyan, with each player logging a
half in goal. Virginia Wesleyan sopho-
more goaltender Margie Baker also
had an impressive game, stopping
nine shots in the Marlins’ net.

“We ﬁnally proved to ourselves
that we could play a hard-fought, full,
70-minute game,” Harrison said.

The Generals will return to action
at 11:30 a.m. on Friday as they travel
to top-seeded Lynchburg for an
ODAC Semiﬁnal match. Despite a 2-0
regular-season loss, W&L is conﬁ-
dent that they can upset the Hornets.

“Although Lynchburg is the No.
1-ranked team in the ODAC, we
played very well against them in the
regular season and we are looking
forward to trying to take their posi-
tion from them,” Harrison said.

Men, women lace 2nd at ODAC meet

Bell ﬁnished seventh by crossing the tape

FEE PHOTO

RUNNERS-UP. Freshman Molly Drake placed eighth at the
ODAC Championships on Saturday with a time of 24:32.50.

Cross country squads ﬁnish as
runners-up on the road at
conference championships

BY JEREMY FRANKLIN
SPORTS EDITOR

SALEM — Both Washington and Lee cross
country teams placed second at the Old Domin-
ion Athletic Conference Championships Satur-
day at Roanoke College.

The Generals ﬁnished second in a ﬁeld of
eight teams in the men’s race, while the women
were runners-up in a six-team pool. Junior Andy
Schorr and senior Burke Duncan each ﬁnished
third overall in their respective races.

Lynchburg won the men’s race with 18
points, placing seven runners in the top nine.
Only Schorr and sophomore teammate Wes Bell
prevented the Hornets from sweeping the top
seven spots.

Schorr’s time of 26:38.56 was just a few sec-
onds behind his personal record of 26:24 in the
8,000-meter run, despite the fact that the ODAC
Championships were run on what the junior
called “a hilly course” at Roanoke.

“I was getting frustrated earlier in the sea-
son because I wasn’t running near the times I
ran freshman year,” said Schorr, who missed
most of his sophomore season because of inju-
iies. “I thought I ran well Saturday.”

at 26:5 8.37. Rounding out the scoring were three
Generals who ﬁnished 14th through 16th: sopho-
more Steve Chambers (27:49), senior Will
Teichman (27:51) and junior Rusty Meyer (27:58).

W&L’s 55 points put them a shade ahead
of Roanoke’s total of 64. In the preseason
coaches poll, the Maroons were picked second
ahead of the Generals.

“We were ranked to come in third, and we
really set our eyes on beating Roanoke,” Schorr
said. “We really wanted to beat them when it
counted at the conference meet.”

The Maroons won the women’s 6,000-meter
race with a score of 28. Although Eastern
Mennonite’s Andrea Goode ﬁnished first over-
all at 23:02.57, W&L edged the Royals for sec-
ond place by a score of 53 to 58.

Duncan finished the race in 23:53.74, while
freshman Molly Drake placed eighth at 24: 32.50.
Freshman Megan Ward turned in an 11th-place
performance with a time of 24:49.30.

Freshman Betsy Frayer and senior Jen
Fallon placed 15th and 16th to ﬁnish the scor-
ing for W&L with times of 25:15 and 25:18, re-
spectively.

Duncan and Fallon will graduate from W&L,
but all ﬁve of the men’s runners who placed for
the Generals should return next year.

“We’re probably going to be as good or
even better than we ran this year,” Schorr said,
“but it’s too early to tell.”

Keep reading the sports pages of the P/92°.

Before Thanksgiving: previews of both W&L
basketball teams and Generals Wrestling, plus coverage
of fall sports as they conclude their 2002 seasons.

Questions, comments or suggestions?
Contact Sports Editor Jeremy Franklin at fmrzré/z'rg@u//u. edu or X4060.

Listen to the
Afternoon Sports
Beat with
Jeremy Franklin
and Jake Trotter.
Sundays at 6 p.m.
on WLUR 91.5 FM
or at w|ur.wlu.edu.

 

    

PAGE 8

lltl;lt3.’\'(;--l‘=§.".§l’t-fl

 

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 4, 2002

SPORTS

Generals sweep rival Roanoke

Volleyball secures top seed for ODAC Tournament

BARREIT DAWS/ Te Rzrrg-rm Phz

HOME SWEEP. Freshman Christine Gladysz (15) sets the ball in W&L’s 30-25, 30-14,
30-24 win over Maryville as freshman outside hitter Susan Gaillard looks on.

Mistakes abound i ls to Eagles

Seven tumovers help No. 2
Bridgewater to 44-14 win
over upset-minded Generals

BY JEREMY FRANKLIN
SPORTS EDITOR

BRIDGEWATER —— Turnovers.
Special teams mistakes. Penalties.

Take away these three factors,
and Bridgewater might have edged
Washington and Lee 3-0 on Saturday
at Jopson Field.

Mistakes plagued both sides, but
the Generals committed more of them
in a 44-14 loss to the second-ranked
team in NCAA Division HI.

“You can’t turn over the ball in
any game, and you’ve got to have
great special teams in every game,”
W&L coach Frank Miriello said. “We
had a blocked punt and turnovers all
over the ﬁeld against the No. 2 team
in the country, and that’s just not go-
ing to happen.”

A week after his career day in a
26- 14 win over Sewanee, Sean
McGarvey had a nightmare of a game.
The junior quarterback recorded 203
yards in the air and threw a first-half
touchdown pass to senior Chris
Sullivan, but was intercepted five
times.

But after beneﬁting from good
protection against the Tigers,
McGarvey was sacked three times and
hurried on nearly every pass play by
an aggressive Bridgewater defense.

BY DoNNY BANKS
SPORTS WRITER

The Washington and Lee volley-
ball team enjoyed three impressive
wins over quality opponents this week
in the Warner Center. '

The Generals (28-7, 10-0 Old Do-
minion Athletic Conference) started
their string of victories on Tuesday
evening by defeating Mary Baldwin
30-11,30-8, 30-18.

Freshman middle blocker Susan
Gaillard recorded 10 kills and four
blocks, and sophomore outside hitter
Michelle Chastain ﬁnished with seven
kills and three blocks.

On Saturday, the team had per-
haps its best match of the season by
sweeping ODAC rival Roanoke 30-19,
30-15, 30-16. Both teams entered the
contest undefeated in conference play.

“It was nice finally to have a
home match on a Saturday,” head
coach Bryan Snyder said. “We were
able to come out strong and never let
up. Also, we fixed some of the com-
munication problems which had hurt
us earlier in the year and that really
showed, as we really had only one
error in that facet the whole match.”

 

FELE Pnorio

JUST our or REACH. Sophomore Taylor Callaham, shown here in W&L’s 7-3

Homecoming win over Randolph-Macon on Oct. 5, caught six passes for 60 yards
in the Generals’ 44-14 road loss to Bridgewater on Saturday.

“Sean’s throwing the ball well,
but he just can’t keep throwing inter-
ceptions,” Miriello said. “But I’m not
blaming Sean. They had so much pres-
sure on him.”

The 30-point margin of victory
wasn’t really indicative of how well
the Generals’ defense played. W&L
outgajned Bridgewater 363-316, and
the Eagles had three touchdown
drives that began in the Generals’ red
zone after two turnovers and a blocked
punt

“The first half, we had a good
plan, executed the plan, and kept them
under control,” Miriello said. “Our

goal going in was not to give up the

. big play, but then they had a couple

of big plays on defense.”

After building up a 17-0 lead on a
Kyle Beach ﬁeld goal, a 1-yard TD rim
by Jamie Langley and a 27-yard touch-
down pass from Robbie Jenkins to
Andre Jones, Bridgewater looked to
be in complete control.

But the Eagles didn’t play mis-
take-free football either, particularly in
the second quarter. Midway through
the period, McGarvey lost a fumble at
the W&L 17-yard line. On the next
play, Nicholas Lehto ran a wide re-
ceiver reverse all the way to the 1-

Leading the charge against the
Maroons was Chastain, who had 12
kills, eight digs and two blocks.
Gaillard had another good game with
12 kills and three blocks, and sopho-
more outside hitter Emily Wolﬁng to-
taled 10 kills and 11 digs.

Sophomore libero Jennifer Lux
recorded 12 digs, and freshman setter
Christine Gladysz notched 34 assists
and 12 digs.

Following the Roanoke win, the
Generals ﬁnished their regular-season
campaign by defeating Maryville. The
team authoritatively avenged a prior
loss to the Fighting Scots in three
games, 30-25, 30-14, 30-24.

Chastain had another great game
with 15 kills and 10 digs, and Wolﬁng
added 12 kills and 17 digs. Lux col-
lected 17 digs, while Gladysz added
37 assists and 14 digs.

The Generals will continue play
on Friday in the ODAC Tournament
at Eastern Mennonite. They enter the
eight-tearn tournament as the top seed
and with a lot of conﬁdence.

“With the No. 1 seed, we won’t
have to see Bridgewater or Roanoke
until the ﬁnals of the ODAC, which is
a big advantage,” Snyder said.

yard line, then fumbled the baH out of
the end zone for a Generals touch-
back. '

W&L responded by driving 80
yards, including a 42-yard Sullivan
rush and a 23-yard pass from
McGarvey to sophomore fullback
Chris Cararnore. Bridgewater added a
15-yard personal foul penalty in the
middle of the series, and Sullivan
capped off the drive with a 1-yard
touchdown plunge.

The Generals got the ball back
with 1:27 remaining in the half and
seemed content to run the clock down.
But a pass interference penalty
pushed W&L into Bridgewater terri-
tory, and McGarvey hit Sullivan on a
36-yard scoring strike with 13 seconds
left before halftime.

But things unraveled for the
W&L offense in the second half, as
McGarvey threw four interceptions
and the Generals never got in rhythm
on offense. The defending national
runners-up took full advantage of the
visitors’ mistakes.

The Generals (3-5, 2-3 Old Domin-
ion Athletic Conference) have two
winnable games left on their sched-
ule, starting with Emory & Henry on
Saturday at Wilson Field. W&L
hasn’t beaten the Wasps since 1982.

“Our goal is to win ﬁve games,
and Emory & Henry is in the way of
that,” Miriello said. “'1his team will
have been 5-5 four straight years. I
think the seniors deserve that, and
that’s the focus right now.”

Swimmers battle Transylvania on road

Generals split pair of
non—conference meets

FROM STAFF REPORTS

LEXINGTON, Ky. — The Wash-
ington and Lee men’s and women’s
swim teams traveled to Transylvania
on Saturday for non—conference
meets. The women’s team won 108-
97, while the Generals lost the’men’s
competition 118-83.

Senior Blair Huffman helped
W&L improve to 3-0 by winning three
events: the 1,000 Free, the 200 IlVl and
the 200 Fly. Freshman Kristine Holda
won the 50 and 100 Free events for
the Generals.

Senior Kelli Austin ﬁnished first
in the 200 Free, while sophomore
Eleanor Williams won the 200 Back.

The men dropped their season
opener, but senior Zach Fake and
sophomore Chris Colby won the 50
Free and the 200 Fly, respectively.

#1 Spring Break Vacations!

Cancun, Jamaica, Acapulco, Bahamas,
Mazatlan, Florida, SPadre. 110% Best Prices!
Book Now & get Free Parties & Meals!
Group Discounts. Now hiring Campus Reps!
1-800-234-7007
endlesssummertours.com

Both squads return to action on
Friday when they host Old Dominion
Athletic Conference opponent
Randolph-Macon at 7 p.m.

Wrestlers open 2002-03 at

cross-town VMI Invitational

The W&L wrestlers opened the
2002-03 season on Sunday against
Division 1 competition in the VMI
Keydet Invitational.

Junior Michael Bennett led the
way for the Generals by placing sec-
ond in the 197-pound ﬂight. Bennett
defeated Brandon Zeigler of David-
son and Charles Johnson of The Cita-
del before being pinned by Virginia’s
Dan Clark in the championship.

Junior Joe Mueller also fared well
for W&L. After losing his semiﬁnal
match in the 184—pound class, Mueller
beat Gardner-Webb’s Brent Blackwell
and VMI’s Ben Chovanec to win the
consolation bracket.

Senior John Polena won his
quarterfinal match against Adam
Gisser of Gardner-Webb in the 141-
pound ﬂight before falling to even-
tual champion Chris Seta of VMI in
the semiﬁnals.

W&L freshman Grant Krapf (133
pounds), junior Corey Little (157), se-
nior Alex Poor (165), freshman Brian
Avello (174) and senior Jason Since
(184) also competed in the event.

The Generals conclude their fall
schedule by traveling to the McDaniel
Invitational on Saturday.

Men’s basketball tabbed
8th by conference coaches

The W&L men’s basketball team
was selected to ﬁnish eighth in the
ODAC by conference coaches on
Thursday.

The Generals return four starters
from a squad that ﬁnished 7-18 over-
all,4-l4inthe ODAC in 2001-02.

Fraternities . S0l'l|I‘ili8S
GIIIIIS . Slllllelll (i|'0IlIl$

Earn $1,000-$2,000 this semester with a proven CampusFundraiser
3 hour fundraising event. Our programs make fundraising easy
with no risks. Fundraising dates are ﬁlling quickly, so get with
the program! It works. Contact CarnpusFundraiser at (888) 923-
3238, or visit www.campusfundraiser.com

Randolph-Macon and Hampden-
Sydney, which both made the NCAA
Division III Tournament a season ago,
were picked first and second. Round-
ing out the poll are Roanoke, Virginia
Wesleyan, Emory & Henry,iGuilford,
Bridgewater, W&L, Eastern Menno-
nite and Lynchburg.

The Generals open the season with
the W&L T'ipotfTomnament on Nov. 22.

Riding places 3rd at ODA Cs

LYNCHBURG — The W&L
riding team placed third of four teams
at the ODAC Championships, held
Friday at Randolph-Macon Woman’s
College.

The host school finished first
with 19 points, followed by
Bridgewater at 14, W&L with 13 and
Lynchburg at 11. Hollins didn’t com-
pete in the event.

W&L concludes the fall season
on Nov. 16 at the James Madison/
Bridgewater Invitational.

W&L SWIMMING 2002-03

Women’s swimmers
anticipate strong year

BY MICHAEL LEE
SPORTS WRITER

Washington and Lee’s
women’s swim team is off to an
excellent start this season. With
two meets down, both of them
against Old DominionjAthletic
Conference opponents, the Gen-
erals are 2-0 and are loolcing to re-
tain the ODAC title this year.

Last year, four Generals’ swim-
mers graduated: Katie Kennedy,
Laura Ingoldsby, Maggie Fagan
and Anne Lachiewiscz.

Coach Kiki Moore was sad to
see them leave, but noted being es-
peciallyhuitby
In goldsby’s
loss. Ingolds-
by had been a
regular 500,
1,(XX),and1,650
freestyle swim-
mer for the
Generals, and
was named to the All-ODAC team
last year.

“Distance freestyle is a hole
we’re trying to fill right now,”
Moore said. “There’s no one per-
son who swims it regularly at this
point.”

Nevertheless, the Generals
this year have a strong senior
class. “We have ﬁve seniors this
year, and they’re an outstanding
class. They all contribute,” Moore
said.

Of special note is senior Blair
Huffman’s return. Huffman was
named to the All-ODAC squad last
year, as well as being named the
Atlantic States Swimmer of the
Year. She holds the school record
in the 400 IM, and last year made
an NCAA “B” cut, but was not
chosen to attend the meet.

Moo

 

Sprint freestyle will be fresh-
man Kristine Holda’s responsibil-
ity, while middle distance is still
junior Kelli Austin’s domain. Dis-
tance freestyle is up in the air, but
Moore speculated that sophomore
Laura Westerrnan and senior Katie
Kolle would see time in those
events.

“Laura and Katie are great util-
ity swimmers,” Moore said.
“They’re able to swim almost any
event well.” ,

The backstroke is a deep po-
sition this year, as senior Michelle
Moore, junior Mandi Kimble and
sophomore Eleanor Williams all will
be swimming those events. Kimble
and Williams were both chosen for
the All-ODAC team last year, while
Moore was abroad for Winter
Term

The Generals also have depth
in the breaststroke, with junior Erin
Dougherty, sophomore Tasia
Fisher and freshman Beth Sauer.
Fisher has been plagued by a knee
injury that prevented her from
swimming the breaststroke last
year, but Moore believes that she
is ready to return to her stroke.

Swirrirning the butterﬂy will be
Huffman, Williams and junior
Jackie Green.

Moore is happy with this
year’s team. “We’ll be competitive
for records all year in the relays.
We don’t have set relay teams yet,
either. There are lots of toss-ups,
and so we’ll be trying different or-
ders out.

“I’m looking for our upper-
classmen to provide good leader-
ship all year,” Moore added. “We
have a small freshman class, but
they’re quality swimmers. I just
want to send our seniors out on a
good note.”

W&L looks for
new leadership

Men’s team deals with resignation of head coach

BY MICHAEL LEE
SPORTS WRITER

The Washington and Lee
men’s swim team was shaken re-
cently, as head coach Andrew
Pulsifer resigned for health rea-
sons.

Nevertheless, Athletics Direc-
tor Mike Walsh moved quickly to
appoint women’s swim coach Kiki
Moore as the interim coach to al-
low the season to continue. Moore
will head the men’s team until a per-
manent replacement can be found
for next season, and a search for an
assistant coach began immediately.

“It’s a new experience for me,”
Moore said. “It’s definitely not
something we planned on. It will
probably be a challenge for the
team to adjust, but hopefully they’ll
ﬁght through the problems.”

The team is looking to ﬁll a few
holes this year. Rick Black’s gradu-
ation last year left sprint freestyle
wide open, and Moore is looking
to see who can step up to take his
place.

“We have a good freshman
class to ﬁll in where attrition and
graduations have hurt us,” she
said.

Breaststroke is another pos-
sible hole, but senior captain Zach
Fake began swimming breaststroke
late last season and has taken the
lead slot on the team.

Perhaps the strongest depart-
ments are in butterfly and distance
freestyle. Junior Drew Catanese,

sophomore Chris Colby and fresh-
men Andrew Lloyd and Reed
Evans are all very strong butterﬂy
swimmers, and relay slots will be
very competitive.

Distance freestyle is helped
by senior captain Patrick
Frankfort’s return. Frankfort made
an NCAA “B” cut time last sea-
son, but was not chosen to attend
the meet. He also set pool and meet
records at the Grove City College
Invitational last year in the 500 and
1,000 freestyle.

Freshman Clark Barrineau will
also be swimming distance events.

Moore expects a lot from her
upperclassmen this year. “I really
expect good leadership from the
two senior captains and from Mat-
thew Kimbrough (the third senior
on the team),” she said. “It may be
a challenging year, but they’ll need
to pull the freshmen along and get
this team going again.”

The relay teams will be ﬂuid
this year, as Moore tries out swim-
mers in different slots. Junior Eric
Ritter will return in the backstroke,
coming off an NCAA “A” cut time
and a school record in the 200 back.
Ritter’s “A” cut is the first in W&L
history.

Moore is optimistic, in spite of
the events of the last few weeks. “I
expect to see some very strong
freestyle relays. The medleys may
need some work, but we’ll ﬁnd the
best way to go. This team will keep
going — they’re a great bunch of

guys.”

 

K
 4,. , 
r   The stzirlerrt t.iria:‘e  it .  .
’_ Uﬁi W’,/"

..-....,. ....

  «Greek groups
.con inue to give

Panhell follows IFC lead with scholarships

,‘ BY CALEY ANDERSON

STAFF WRITER

The Panhellenic Council will award scholarships

to pay for four freshmen women’s greek fees this year.
[Panhellenic Council is the governing organization that
supervises Washington and Lee University’s sorori-

ties.

The scholarships, which will contrbute to the costs

of sorority membership for each student who receives
‘them, will be worth $150 for the recipient’s freshman year,
and $500 for each subsequent undergraduate year, a total

of$l650 in all.

Elizabeth Saxton, President of the Panhellenic Coun-

gcil, said that “the council is offering the scholarship in
an effort to allow several women who might not other-
wise be able to join a sorority to be a part of the sys-

93

tern.

M Accordingly, the primary criteria for awarding the
‘scholarship will be ﬁnancial need, although other factors
will include strength of interest in greek life, potential to
contribute to the greek system, and participation in extra-
curricular activites. Leaders hope these aid packages will
{ease the ﬁnancial burden on exceptional women who wish

to join sororities.

While Saxton said, “at most, four more women may
go through recruitment,” the possibility remains that
the scholarship will encourage many more Wash-

7ington & Lee women to participate in sorority re-
cruitment, thus stimulating activity in. the greek sys-

tem as a whole.

72 percent of upperclass female students at
‘Washington & Lee are members of a sorority, down
from last year’s mark of 74.4 percent, according to
W&L’s Office of Institutional Research. While many
sorority members have no problems paying their re-
spective organizational dues, some have trouble com-
''ing up with enough money. The Panhellenic Council
hopes that it will be able to place some new sorority
sisters who might _g_th_erwise Vhaveelecthed not to
pledge due to the cost of membershiph in a greek

organization.

Saxton said,the Interfratemity Council, which over-
sees Washington and Lee University’s fraternities, was
a helpful source of assistance to its sister organization
in drawing up the plans for the scholarship program,

(since they “already had their scholarship program in-
tact.” The Panhellenic scholarship was therefore in-
tended to be similar to the IFC scholarship in every pos-

sible way.

3‘.

ents.

Leaders of both organizations hope that their ﬁ-
/tnancial efforts will improve the greek system by allow-
ing worthy students to join fraternities or sororities
who would otherwise have trouble paying their greek

fees.

ll
l BY IMRAN NAEEMULIAH
OPINIONS ronor

Washington and Lee students
ltenjoyed a taste of India during the
Diwali festival held during dinner in
Evans Dining Hall on Thursday, Nov.
7. Organized by junior Abby Wolcott,
the festival featured Indian dancing,
hand decorating using an Indian dye
called henna, as well as Indian des-
serts. Said Wolcott, “It was a really
great event. I had a great time, as did
lnrthe rest of the organizers.” Wolcott
is chair of the Outreach Committee of
the Student Association for Interna-
tional Learning (SAIL).

i Students enjoyed the activities.
Freshman Elizabeth Little, who hails
iﬁom South Carolina, noted that this was
her ﬁrst real exposure to Indian culture.
She said, “I thought it was a really neat

lqevent and a good idea. I enjoyed the
dancing very much, and thought the
rice pudding was excellent.”

Food was certainly an attraction
for students. Said freshman Gabe
hapman, “I would easily say it was
the only night at D-Hall where I’m go-
ing to be able to eat lamb. It reminded
me of going to an Indian New Year ’s
ﬁinner at my friend’s house back
home. Ithought [the celebration] was
a great idea, and I wish we could do
more cultural things like that.”
Indeed, students seemed to
fiarticularly enjoy the desserts.
Freshman Ligia Abreu, who helped
organize the event, noted that the

         

  

The two scholarships are indeed essentially
identical in criteria for bestowment and amount, the
only real difference being the gender of the recipi-

helping out with the festivities.”

  ,%THER

.,:._,.

 

ING-T

.i'iigitl’lt arid lee tr

  

 

l

m...n

‘_§- 5-4-4.»-
is-«......;

T

J

   iiiiittilt”*iZl«ir"rll\Z r*-at  
F‘ 3:‘ II ll'.’i."l’I...,.’rTil

Aumorossrjns BRO0KS/ 7l9eRz'ng4umPh1'

Sonny, CHARLIE. Top. ABC’s ‘Good Morning America’
crewsworkedallweekendtosetup lights, cables, cameras
andwires liketheequipmer1tstrownAbove.'Iheol'I'icial

‘Good Morning America’ logo adorned Lexington,

W&L tas es India

desserts were a great success. She
also pointed out that they were for-
tunate to have religion professor
Tim Lubin on hand to chat with stu-
dents about Indian culture as well
as to enjoy the festivities.

Lubin was not the sole faculty pres-
ence, however. English professors
Suzanne Keen and Lesley Wheeler
wereboththerewitlitheirﬁarniliesirrtovv.
Wheeler noted with amusement, “I was
grateful [my two-year-old son] Cameron
didn’t smear henna on my face imtil af-
terthe painthad mostly dri ”

Keen agreed,-pointing out that she
attended because “I thought it would
be a fun change of pace, my husband
loves Indian food, and my son loves
any kind of festival. [He] has a magniﬁ-
cent henna tattoo that he has been
showing off at kindergarten. He also
enjoyed the music and dancing.”

Wolcott credits the success of
the event to the help of various other
students, as well as Director of Din-
ing Services Alex da Silva and Din-
ing Services Administrative Assis-
tant Faye Silvea. Wolcott pointed out
that one big positive was that stu-
dents of many nationalities assisted;
for example, henna painting was done
by sophomore Alex Schaerrer, who
is originally from Switzerland but now
lives in Florida. Said Wolcott, who is
an American, “ It gave the opportu-
nity for students to learn about an-
other culture, and it was especially
good that non-Indian students were

Washington and Lee and Virginia Military Institute. Rzgbt.
Crew members tum Lexington back alleys into New
York back sets by toting equipment Sunday afternoon.
Far right. ‘Good Morning America’ stars come to
Lexington‘ Bottom. ABC’s crews left no campus space
free of wires and cables.

Lex ransformed

BY KATIE Howm
EDITOR IN CHIEF

Quiet Lexington streets were made over this
weekend for today’s broadcast of ABC’s morning
news program, ‘Good Moming America. ’

Over 200 producers, editors, crew and cast ar-
rived in Lexington throughout the weekend to pre-
pare for this moming’s live broadcast. The show, fea-
turing Lexington as a representative Virginia city, fo-
cused on segments of the community including Lex-
ington Coffee Shop, Washington and Lee University
and Virginia Military Institute.

Anchors Diane Sawyer and Charlie Gibson ar-
rived via chartered plane to the Lexington community

see GMA, page 4

BY Mmnrw Mcbnmorr
EDITOR IN cnrrr

FORTHCOMING

Radio Free Asia director
discusses China, freedom

Dan Southerland, executive’ edi-
tor of Radio Free Asia, will address
“China behind the Headlines” at
8:00pm in Northen Auditorium, Nov 14.

Radio Free Asia is a govemment-
funded organization that broadcasts
Mandarin and Tibetan language news
into China.

Southerland, who is also vice
president for programming for Radio
Free Asia, was The Washingmn Post’s
bureau chief in Beijing from 1985 to
1990. While there, he covered China’s
economic reforms, political develop-
ment and human rights. In 1990, his
reports on the 1989 Tiananmen dem-
onstrations earned him a nomination
for a Pulitzer Prize. In 1995, he won
the Edward Weintal prize for distin-
guished diplomatic reporting for a
series on the Mao Zedong years in
China. He also wrote on business and
energy matters.

National authority lectures
on balancing life with work

Dr. SylviaAnn Hewlett will discuss
professional and personal life issues on
Tuesday, Nov. 19 at 7:30 p.m. in Leybum
Library’s Northen Auditorium at Wash-

ington and Lee University.

Hewlett’s talk, “Making Smart
Choices in Work and Life,” is sponsored
by the Williams School of Commerce,

‘Economics, and Politics and W&L’s
’W"rlliam Lyne Vifrlson Lecture Fund. Her
. talk is open to the public without charge.

Hewlett is the author of “Creat-
ing a Life: Professional Women and
the Quest for Children,” a book that
inspired the controversial Time maga-
zine cover article last spring, “Babies
vs. Career.” Hewlett’s book was

based on a sur-
vey of men and
women in high-
powered careers,
including invest-
ment banking,
law and
academia.
Among her
otherbooksis“’l‘he
War Against Parents,” which was co-

 

Hrswusrr

authored with academician Cornell West '

PAsT

Newspaper editor
covers journalism ethics

Walker Lundy, editor and execu-
tive vice president of The Philadel-
phia Inquirer, will deliver the keynote
address at Washington and Lee
University’s 34th Institute on the Eth-
ics in Journalism conference Friday,
Nov. 8.

Lundy, a nearly 40-year news-
paper veteran, will discuss ethics in

 . I... «.1.  1:2. . .

that the process of forming new memo-

lltitlt?i‘”‘S‘ii;if 3i’iit;ir:Tt:t l  ii’) Ohltrze rrl: lllrii, irritate  ~

 

  ,_ VoLuMECV,No.XlV
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 11, 2002

Full speakers ’ roster ddressesmW&L

the news business in his speech,
“What Would Your Mother Do?”
His talk, which is free and open to
the public, is at 4:30 p.m. in room
327 of the Will-
iams School of
Commerce, Eco-
nomics, and Poli-
tics.

The ethics
institute is
sponsored by
W&L’s De-
partment of
Journalism and Mass Communi-
cations and the Knight Program
in Journalism Ethics.

LUNDY

Neuropsychologist

discusses your brain on drugs

“The Science of Partying” is the
topic of a Nov. 7 address at Washing-
ton and Lee University by Dr. Scott
Swartzwelder, a Duke University neu-
ropsychologist and professor of psy-
chiatry and behavior sciences.

The 7:30 p.m. talk, which is open
to the public, is in Northen Audito-
rium at Leybum Library.

Swartzwelder, a senior research
scientist for the U.S. Department of
Veteran Affairs, will discuss his re-
search on how alcohol and other
drugs interact with the brain and par-
ticularly with the brain’s mechanisms
of learning and memory. His research
shows the brain is still developing
until people reach their early 20s and

 

ries is disrupted by alcohol and other
drugs.

Swartzwelder is the author of nu-
merous academic journal articles and
three books: “The Straight Facts
About the Most Used and Abused
Drugs from Alcohol to Ecstasy”; “Just
Say Know: Talking with Kids About
Drugs and Alcohol”; and “Pumped:

A Straight Facts for Athletes about

Drugs, Supplements, and Training.”

Veteran investor
lectures on Wall St. volatility

Jim Awad, a veteran portfolio
manager andsenior investment officer,
will discuss what’s been happening
on Wall St. and what’s ahead in the
stock market as Washington and
LeeUniversity’s Williams Investment
Society guess speaker on Monday,
Nov. 4 at 7:30 p.m.

Awad’s address, “The Stock
Market: Where-Have We Come?
Where Are We Going?,” will be held
in Northen Auditorium in Leybum Li-
brary. The talk is open to the public
without charge.

Awad, chainnan of Awad Asset
Management, has been in
thesecurities industry for more than
30 years. He is a frequent speaker
inthe investment community and of-
ten appears on CNBC, CNN, Fox Sat-
ellite, CNN FN and Bloomberg Finan-
cial News.

Awad, a W&L graduate, holds an
MBA from Harvard University’s
Graduate School of Business.

 

 

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 11, 2002

 

Si§r}kBiiiiiPﬁDlTORlAL

New website hard to use, displays

poor taste in color choice

The eye of the Phi scans all things great
and small, and has lately lit upon something
inescapable to anyone using an on-campus
computer: our website.

“Ugly” does not begin to describe it.
“Hard to read” is a better beginning.

The relentless blue-and-white style
makes searching for links oppressive.
White text on blue background, blue text
on white background, blue lines on blue
background, blue shadings on blue back-
ground—-blue and white melt together into
an impersonal, dark page totally different
in spirit from the previous webpage’s mel-
low tone palette.

How far extends this relentless chro-
matic-polarization? To bring Art Professor
George Bent’s photo into line with the domi-
nant colors scheme, his picture was shaded
blue. Bent now looks like Brainy Smurf.

The good professor appears besides a
full-color picture in the center and another
at the top left, exacerbating the webpage’s
cluttered look.

The busy new site stands in marked
contrast with the elegant post-and-lintel de-
sign of the previous site, where twin hori-
zontal and vertical columns of links made
the entire site easy to navigate.

We should be careful not to panegyrize
the past webpage, which certainly had its
faults. Most of these revolve around its
photos.

The “Foliage of W&L” series, for in-
stance, invited derision by its showcase of
leaves through which, occasionally, the odd
cornice or column peeked through. The
only thing worse than the photos were the
oversized attributions slathered on top of
them. Why anyone would want to be iden-
tified with most of the pictures is beyond
us.

That being said, however, the web page
was still pleasant and easy to read.

It was a website that was more classy
than corporate and more solid than showy.
However muchThere’s no use regretting this
latest instance of sic transit gloria mundi.

The new website may be more appeal-
ing to the countless new applicants we will
potentially attract as a result of being on Good
Morning America, yet it is a cruel insult to
the present user community. And where is
the Colonnade Cam?

As it stands, we now have a slicker and
colder portal that stares out at us every time
we turn on a campus computer. It reminds
us to enjoy our school’s culture while it’s still
with us. And it announces that a new
Swarthmore is slouching to Lexington to be
born.

 

".‘lr"«:?Iz:'.'I.:‘:I*' "ii 3 -' ’

Editors in chief Katie J. Howell
MatthewB.McI)ermott
Opinions Editor ImranNaeemuIlah
Arts & Life Editor Catherine C. Guy
Sports Editor Jeremy Franklin
Asst. Sports Editor Dave Crowell
Photo Editor Jeb Brooks
Photographers Tallie Jamison
BarrettDaws
Business Manager Paul Seifert
Asst. Business Manager Thomasworthy
Circulation Director HenryGrimball
Advertising Assistant McQueen Calvert

 
 

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee Univer-
sity, Lexington, Vrrginia. The Washington and Lee Publi-
cations Board elects the Editors in chief, but The Ring-
tum Phi is otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible submis-
sions and letters. All submissions must be e-mailed to
phi@wlu.edu or in the University Center mailbox by 5
p.m Friday to appear in the following week’s edition. The
Ring-tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for con-
tent and length. Letters and columns do not necessarily
reﬂect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Ad-
vertising does not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi
or its staff. This newspaper observes current court defmi-
tions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Mailing Address: University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Street Address: 31 Washington Street
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Fax: (540) 462-4059
Email: phi@wlu.edu
http://phi.wlu.edu

Annual Subscription Rate: $35

THE. RING-not PH].

lnRA\n‘v.IE'~AIorEnI
OPINIONS EDrIoR

7
EMA1l.'NAEEvlUllAHl@WllJ.EDU

PINIONS e

I was going to write about
how Shepard Smith is a drunk (he
is), but a stroll through town gave
me a much better target: us. Yes,
Lex Vegas has painted itself up
like a cheap garden gnome for the
repellent hordes of northern lib-
erals who have occupied the
town. Once again an army of damn
Yankees has conquered the re-
gion, and we seem to be at their
beck and call.

The leaves are blown off the
front lawn. Fat roadies are set-
ting up speakers and lighting
around Lee chapel, their utility
belts just barely holding up their
sagging jeans, as they crack jokes
and generate garbage on our pris-
tine lawn. It looks like the Colon-
nade has had its paint touched up
recently, which will no doubt be
dubbed “quaint” by the effepe me-
dia elites.

Half of the J -School seems to
be involved in the production,
which I suppose makes
some sense, as W&L
and VMI have no
doubt sold their labor
forces (student “vol-
unteers”) to the minions of
Mordor, ABC. Cadets in camou-
flage pants are hauling sound
equipment back and forth for dis-
gusting media people who se-
cretly chuckle at ordering around
members of a military tradition
they have no respect for.

They’ve got the whole bat-
tery of 105 millimeter howitzers
out on the parade field, and le-
gions of cadets are practicing the
manual of arms. I hear there’s go-
ing to be a two block parade,
too. That seems pretty fake to
me. A cadet was actually touch-
ing up the painting of the VMI
ring on the cannon ball by J ack-
son Arch with a tiny brush, while
ABC people trailing clouds of
cigarette smoke positioned cam-
eras. ‘

It’s not like Lexington is this
way all the time, is it? Not that I
remember. Hell, if they wanted to
beautify the place, they’d knock

ABC will tras W, Le

BEMUSED BYSTANDER
WILLIAM Fox ‘05

that doesn’t look
held together by
the remains of a
fifteen year old
coat of paint.
Mass hysteria
reigns in the town,
as the streets are
barricaded with
wiring and equip-
ment, and the side-
walks covered with
tape marking where
the talking heads
are to stand on
Monday.

down that grim fortress that is the
VMI barracks, and replace is with
modular apartments or something.

try dynamiting the Wilson Field
complex and building something

The townies smile and nod, se-
cretly cursing to themselves, re-
senting the presence of so many
outsiders. They hate us, but they
must really hate the outsiders who
put Hillary Clinton in office.

The worst part is we all know
that the students they interview will

()7 11/WW/.]Ell//5'li’EE}\:.(I)li1

BIASED. Diane Sawyer and her crew will no doubt portray Was they wish to see it

be a hand picked crowd that rep-
resents diversity and northern lib-
eralism as well. In short, it will be
a group totally unrepresentative
of this school. For better or
worse, we’re neither liberal nor di-
verse, but we’ll sure as hell do our
best to appear like every other
small liberal arts college, because
that’s what the people who write
the college rankings (northern lib-
erals, who might
actually watch

If you
want to really
improve the
appearance of
our campus,

like rust being

YEs,LrxVEcAsIIAsI>An\IrEonsEI.I=uR ABC) expect
IIKEACHEAPGARDENGNOIVIEFORIHE This is all just
REI>EIrENrIIoRDEsoENoRIIIERN a"°th°’ Step 1“
the development

LIEERAIsIIIIo HAVE occLI>IEoIIIEro\tN. of w&L mm that
 WI'CtChCd hlVC'Of

‘ s c u m and v 11-

YANIEES IIAs COINQUEREDIHE REGION, lain}, that is Wi1_

AM) IIE sEEMIo EEAIIIIEIREErI<AND liams College-

What is the

Cm‘ real PR value of all

this anyhow? Are
more tourists going to come to Lex-
ington? Are more applications from
people who don’t match the stan-
dard W&L proﬁle going to come in?
Is the president’s capital campaign
going to ﬂourish. in the wake of a
very fake and staged presentation
of W&L on national television? I
don’t know, but I doubt it.

MLK day should be honored

Recently I encountered a situation that greatly bothered
me while collecting signatures for a petition to have an adjusted
schedule forMartinI..utherKing Day, anetfort initiatedby PRIDE.
Beingthena'1‘vepersonthatIarn,Iassumed
that I would have no problems in getting sup-
port from fellow students, but that is not the
case. In particular, these two students, the only
two I’ve met who are unsupportive of this effort, were very
ooncemed that we would recognize just Martin Luther King.
They asked me why is it that we don’t recognize other people
and that it was not appropriate to have
such an event on campus. On this note,
they wondered why is it we don’t rec-
ognize someone like Lyndon Johnson. I
found myself dumbfounded by the ques-
tionofthereisaneedtorecognizeMLK
day because I thought the answer was
blatantly obvious. But apparently not.

Here is my argument for why it is
that we should recognize the Martin

TRAN or Tnoucnr
_ TRAN KIM ‘O5

is everywhere, and it is at the root of many of our social issues,
ﬁom the problems of racial cleansings to the problem of diver-
sity on our very own campus. Martin Luther King led a very
hard and tough battle to end the prejudice
against African Americans, but he leaves a
legacy for us to continue struggling to end

‘ prejudice againstotherindividuals. Inhis time,
it was black and white, but now it is a problem that encompasses
other groups as well. Two groups that come to mind are the poor
and those people of Muslim backgrounds, but there is a plethora
of prejudices against people based
on various foundations.

Martin Luther King Day re-
minds us to be aware of the preju-
dices and racial divides that exist in
our society and to be proactive in
ending these unfair judgments. It is
a day in which we unite because of
the mere fact that we are human be-
ings, not because we have the same

LutherKing holiday. Yes, these individu— skincolor or wear thesameshirt ﬁom
als have a very valid argument when the Gap or for any other trivial rea-
they said that there are many individu— son. We all came from the same place
als who have done many great things and we are made of the same things.
anditwouldbefantaslic if we c0u1drec- This ishow we arecommon and this
ognize them all, but that is of course im— commonality is what should tie us
practical. But most importanﬂy, Martin together rather.

Luther King day means more than sirn— Martin Luther King strived to

ply recognizing a single individual. It is
alsoadayinwhichwerecognizeavery
painful era in our nation’s history and
the hard and long battle we Americans
fought resolve the issues of this era. It is
anever-ending battle, andwe sometimes
ﬁnd ourselves soldiers in our every day
lives.

The battle here is of course the war against prejudice. Re-
gardless of how far we have come in destroying many of the
racial divides that separated black and white, prejudice is still a
living and thriving issue that needs a lot of attentions. Prejudice

 

NEVER FORGOTTEN. The memory of this great
American leader must be honored lest he be
forgotten amidst history’s dust.

 

deliver this message while he was
alive, and it is this legacy that he tried
to leave behind. So when we think
of Martin Luther King Day, we
should not see it as a day to recog-
nize one man, but look at it as a day
to represent the human race. It just
is the case that Martin Luther King believed in this idea and
that time period needed someone like him to promote unity. He
is symbolic of our snuggle today. Recognizing him does not
mean that he has more value than any other human being.
Recognizing him means that we value all human beings.

l)ll(‘ilD(l()Lil(IE,SY()l-'ll”li"‘l«_i"'.l‘/tll.iEDli‘

  
   

PAGE 2

Thanksgiving looms»
far away in distance

Long-awaited holiday cannot come soon
enough, relieves unbearable stress

School breaks always seem to come at the ab}
solute perfect times. About a week before any va-
cation, my head starts spinning. Everyone annoys
me more than usual. I probably don’t have any more
work than I normally do, but it seems like every last,
nuance of homework is comparable to completing a
dissertation on quantum physics. (“I have to read
the first act of Twelfth Night by next week. This is
ridiculous. I’m going to have to pull like four all-

nighters.”) .1
It was apart NORTHERN EXPOSURE
ticularly treach-
erous day of KRIS PoLLINA ‘03
work at the GHQ

today (Sweet Christ, so you have to wait fifteen,‘
extra minutes for a pork BBQ sandwich. Everyone
knows you come to the GHQ for the ambiance and
charismatic workers, not fast food.)

Which made me come home to my laptop (the;
tab key broke, which, of course, threw me into a
crazed tizzy cursing both humanity and technol-
ogy. Then that door—opening-sound effect that en-
acts once someone signs onto a buddy list
“jammed” somehow so the sound just keeps going’
on and on and on. I’m not even signed online and
all I can hear is a repeating door opening.) And I
realize that Thanksgiving break will be the best
thing that ever happened to me. So far. I mighty
change my mind if I win the Virginia lottery (now at
$93 million), or 90210 comes back on the air. So at
this time, I’d like to pay homage to what is un-
doubtedly the best week of the year.

Now that I’ve moderately waxed self—deprecat-’
mg, I can think more clearly about the virtues of
Thanksgiving break. The possibilities are so end-
less, I have to begin speculating about them two
weeks in advance. First and foremost, there’s al--,
ways the promise of reuniting with the proverbial
Friends From Home, real or imaginary. I remember
freshman year coming home, and- this was not one
of my finer moments- I became That High School
Alum and went to a Young Alumni Reception. 19
was amusing at best, pathetic at worst. One dude
who goes to Harvard said, in response to my imme-
diately regretted inquiry as to how he was doing,
“I’m doing really well! Look at me, saying ‘well,’,
using good grammar. It’s an Ivy League thing, I
think.” .   .  .

I can’t extolthe virtues of Thanksgiving Break
enough. It gives.me a whole week to reﬂect on the
things I’m thankful for: picture frames, fabric soft-V
ener, carbonated water, to name a few. But most
importantly, I’m thankful for the fact that it’s still
autumn, and we’ve yet to enter the dark abysm of
time otherwise known as Winter Term. )

Freshmen are still known by where they’re from-
“Hi, I’ m Joe From Atlanta”— and not by their frater-
nity, as if eighteen years of living somewhere has

been sup-

I can’t extol the virtues of Thanksgiving P13 “ t e d
. by one

Break enough. It gives me a whole week week of
to reﬂect on the things I’m thankful for: P16dg'¢ShiP-
picture frames, fabric softener, carbonated 
water, to name a few But most morning
importantly, I’m thankful for the fact that and mu
, , . , feel my
Its still autumn, and we ve yet to enter the t 0 6 S ,
dark abysm of time otherwise known as T h ere ’ S
- I1 0

Winter Term. trouble _

S 0 m G

quandary of deciding what to wear when you g
out: “It’s negative 40 degrees outside, but 180 in a
fraternity basement... halter top it is !” And then of
course, there’s the obvious: inherent paleness. I
liken pastification to how people look better in dark
clothes. Having color is just more slimming and ﬂat-
tering.

Though I usually subscribe to the hackneyed
yet salubrious and optimistic mentality that indeed
Life Is Good, a week away from Lexington and sperft
in the peacefully normal quarters of New York gar-
ners a lovely degree of anticipation that is only
rivaled by the moment of hope and prayer before I
check the lottery numbers every day. 3

Of course, however, my trip back to school at
the end of break comes at the perfect time too, when
I’ve reached my legal limit of home—cooked meals
and what-ar‘e—you—doing—after-graduation queries.
The equilibrium between the love of home and th%
love of school is one of the greatest balances na-

UJIC has CV61‘ COI1COCtCd.

 

osteccentric professonwhy?  

 

    

TAI.uE]A\IIsoN The namP}:i

“Sessions, because he “Porter, because he wears a “Vinson, have you SEEN his “Schwab, because of his “Eric Wilson, because he ’
sticks his tongue out a lot.” parka all the time.” Elvis lamp?!” spandex.” wears orange and lime-green.”
-BRITT RUEGGER ‘O6 -JENNY Scorr ‘O6 CHRISTINA ZANor'rI ‘O6 -PROF. RoNAu)RmE -LAUREN PARTRIDGE ‘O5

 

   
 
    
    
   
   
   

 

V The {law Washmgton Past E.]ectrm1ic Eciitien is the perfect way in get The P+::~st when'you.1ive it-uts:i&e the
_ - heme delivery area..,. ‘when; *yo::s=u.’re at schom... and when yr:-u still" want ta eniesr the Isak, feel and wntext
' of The Pxzast‘-s print eclitican.

 

Get. it delivered ‘diytallgr’ ta ymir. computer or eiaytoga first thing -ever-9* mornitlg, seven days 3 week, at home, ”‘
damn, office, anywhere. 

 

Looks just like The ?o-st because it is, The Past. «

 

ifs an exact zhgltal nepiica nf the day’%. print ediﬁawn.
1; V Includes articles, photos, c.eiuinni.sts;, comics, gra’p5I1i::s and ads.

Searchahle and interactive.

 

 ‘ See now right the marning Feels with The Wash-Engmn Pest. dé-liverwed ‘5fﬂlIfl" way, eve-ry day. A

     mm out more about we wasnmmn Past ectranic Etlilin   —
   inclmﬁng law: you can set it FREE  me weens—at

IIttn.Jlee..  ash ost. 

         
  

=03-25¢ WEL

 
 

 

THE R.iNG—TlJfM l’

RTS

Orchestra concert sells out

,1 l‘R()l\l .\TAl‘l’ RITPORIS

PAGE 4

On Saturday, Washington and Lee University’s own
"University-Shenandoah Symphony Orchestra performed
-“to a sold—out house. The everiing’s repertoire consisted of
{Archipelago by George Antheil, Sinfonia Concertante, K.
- 364 by Mozart and Rachmaninoff ’s Symphonic Dances.

The group is led by Associate Professor of Music
3Barry Kolman and consists of a wide variety of
-‘participants. Dr. Kolman’s Music 114 class, which is
'-made up of undergraduate and law students, practices
#2 two nights each week in DuPont. String specialist Mark
‘Taylor helps each week, and is also active as the concert

master during performances. These students are joined
vby Professional Musicians and other performers with a
flove for music, all of whom are from the area.

This Saturday’s performance was the first of the
"2002—2003 season, and the first ever ticketed show.
'Music staff was concerned that charging both the
"Washington and Lee and Lexington communities would
._ not be well-accepted, since audiences have enjoyed the
‘USSO performances for free in the past. However, the

response was extremely positive, as the entire Keller
I:Theatre of Lenfest was sold out.

The first piece George Antheil’s Archipelago, a
;modern, tropical piece. Antheil, an American composer,
«is known as the bad boy of music because of his

unconditional approach to orchestral music. He worked
for many years as a composer in Hollywood. The piece
was brief and performed energetically.

New Yorkers descend on Lex

city in each of the U.S. states.

“In the country’s reaction to the
Sept. 11 (terrorist) attacks we have
seen how America is constantly
evolving - as the founding fathers
hoped it would,” ABC News Presi-
dent David Westin said.

The second piece in the performance was Mozart’s
S infonia Concertante. This piece was performed
beautifully with ﬂawless rhythmic patterns and intonation.
The USSO was joined by talented soloists Marc Ramirez
and Olivia Hajioff, who are, together, known as marcolivia.
Ramirez played the violin, while Ms. Hajiotf performed on
the viola. They performed beautifully together, and were
well-received by the audience. The duo has performed
throughout the nation and the world.

After a 15 minute intermission, the Orchestra
performed Rachmaninoff ’s Symphonic Dances. This
piece was by far the most difﬁcult, as well as the longest.
The Dances consisted of three movements, and lasted
for nearly an hour. The piece was full of contrasts and
complicated segments, and appeared to be extremely
challenging for the performers. The dramatic and
powerful ending left the audience spell—bound, and
caused them to give the performers a standing ovation.

Members of the Orchestra will be performing next
in a holiday music concert on Tuesday, December 3 at
7:00 pm. The Festival Orchestra will be joined by the
University Chorus, Jazz Ensemble, and Wind Ensemble
and will be performing a series of Holiday favorites.
This concert will also require tickets. The next USSO
performance will occur on Saturday, February 1, 2003.
In this, Peter Landgren of the Baltimore Philharmonic
will join his daughter, sophomore violinist Celia
Landgren for a Father Daughter show.

Community officials said the
show’s presence in Lexington should
increasetourismoverthenextfew weeks.

Hundreds of Lexington residents
and students from both universities
in town attended the production, one
part of a 50-part series focusing on a

GMA, from page 1

Sunday afternoon to prepare for their
Virginia show.
Gibson began his career atABC in
the late 60’s as news director at affiliate
, station WLVA—TV in Lynchburg.

 

tAiHEE1i\IEC.(iLi'
ARTS &LlFEEDl’IOR

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 11, 2002

Frat Cups make the world go ‘round

(Disclaimer: Once again, I am
writing on some aspect of W&L life
that is student appropriate, while
trying to poke a little fun at Greek
Central. Ifanyone is

Unfortunately, Josh Patten, one of the
true masters of the game, was
unavailable for comment, but if you
asked him, he would say that, given

the choice, he would

offended or ABSOLUTE FRAT LORD always choose the
disturbed by this ‘ frat cup, hands
article (though I’m TIM» SMITH  down.

not sure why you

would be), I apologize and implore you
to take this article for what it is — one
West Virginian’s hilarious opinion.)

Pop Quiz: What is small, plastic,
and necessary for life at W&L to
exist? No, it’s not daddy’s credit card.
I’m talking about something so crucial
that, if it were to disappear, our school
would fall into mass hysteria and
hellish chaos. Without this beloved
thing, W&L would not be what we
know and love. What is this thing
that completes our college experience?
Of course, it is the Frat Cup.

As soon as we make our first trip
to Lex Vegas, the frat cup becomes
an inseparable part of our lives.
Indeed, our very livelihoods often
seem dependent on this clear, 16 oz.
plastic container. Consider these
examples:

RECREATION — So many of our
post-class festivities revolve around
the frat cup. The most obvious, of
course, is that classic game that
captures the best of every student’s
competitive nature: Beer Pong. Frat
Cups make Beirut what it is. Certainly,
there are a lot of plastic cups in the
world, and some could be used for
this game, but Beer Pong is not quite
the same without the frat cup.

5§Looking for someone who enjoys kids;
ifto watch two children Tues. & Thurs}
from 10-12. Downtown home,
convenient walk from campus.
Call Kate & David C? 462-3915.

at:  

Write for the Arts and
Life!

email guyc@wlu.edu

 

Spring Break 2003 with STS
Americas #1 Student Tour
Operator
Sell Trips earn cash Travel Free
Information/Reservations
1-800-648-4849 or
www.ststravel.com

And beer pong is
just the tip of the iceberg. Frat cups
are also crucial in other thirst-
quenching games — ﬂip cup, for
example, is another game in which the
clear cup is used
to its utmost
potential. Even
for simple
chugging, the
frat cup has no
equal. Clearly,

POP QUIZ: WHAT Is SMALL,
PLASTIC, AND NECESSARY FOR
LIFE AT W&L TO EXIST?
NO, ITS NOT DADDY’s CREDIT

for Becky Johns and Matt Grieco if
they didn’t have their frat cups to
drink from. To Jess Lake and Nathan
Stovall, the music in Vosbein’s jazz
history class would be less exciting
without their frat cup ice to munch
on. And how many fraternity brothers
in this school use frat cups with their
meals? It’s so simple. You don’t have
to wash it, and it just feels right.
Obviously, when we wake up
each morning and plan our day, we
don’t consciously think to ourselves:
‘‘I’m going to
drink from a frat
cup today.” That
would be silly.
But somehow,
something as
s e e m i n g 1 y

our lives outside CARD. I’M TALKING ABOUT inconsequential
of class would be SOMETHING so CRUCIAL THAT, as 3 Ceftain type
drab and IF IT WERE TO DISAPPEAR, °fp1as“° °_“p can
uninteresting makeanoticeable

without the

OUR SCHOOL WOULD FALL

impact on our

contributions of INTO MASS HYSTERIA AND C 0 1 1 6 g c

the frat cup_ HELLISH CHAOS. experience. And
D AY- T 0 - that is my point:

DAY LIFE _ The Washington and

next time you’re sitting in class
ﬁghting off the urge to sleep, or the
next time you’re strolling down the
Colonnade, stop for a moment and try
to count the number of frat cups you
can see. The number may surprise
you.

While we may never realize it, frat
cups have become a necessity in our
daily lives. Imagine how different
things would be without the frat cup.
Ethics class would seem even longer

Lee University is a unique place. We
always pride ourselves in the
distinctions that separate us from the
other schools in the nations, for it is
these distinctions that make the
experience in Lexington special. But
sometimes, there are things other than
our Honor System and our heritage
that make life at W&L different.
Sometimes, it is the little things, like
clear plastic cups, that make our
college lives more fulﬁlling.

Notices from the Executive Committee

October 8, 2002

The Executive Committee placed a student on social probation for

one month and conduct probation until the end of winter term for
harrassing a witness who was involved in an honor investigation.
The student disclosed the witness’s involvement in the honor
investigation.
October30, 2002

The Executive Committee placed three students on social probation until
the beginning of February Break2003, and conduct probation until the end of
the acaderriic year for harassing a witness who was involved in an honor

‘violation investigation. The students left intirriidating and obscene phone

messages on the witness’ voicemail intending to criticize the witness’
involvement in the honor investigation. '
Enforcement Procdure
Conﬁdentiality and Harassment, located on page 3 of the White Book

The Executive Committee may take disciplinary steps (including conduct
probation, socialprobation, or suspension) against any student who harasse_s
or attempts to inﬂuence a person with respect to that person’s participation in
any investigation or hearing.

Summary of Executive Committee HonorActivity for the 2002-2003 Academic Year

Investigations: 0

Virithdrawals in face of a Closed Hearing: 1

Closed Hearings: 4

Guilty Verdicts in Closed Hearings: 3

Not Guilty Verdicts in Closed Hearings: 1

Student Body Hearings: 0

I.§x‘IN(;‘I‘_g,)§r
2.01113 131*-A

a__1"?¥.

.-1“/\‘.’I/(lg ("-19 I»:/3 t.r.r:-or

LINGER AT A  TABLE

COFFEE - ESPRESSO ' CAPPUCCINO ' PASTRIES 9 BAGELS
DWKST “'ASHlNG'lY)NSTI'.EE'l‘ - LEXINGTON 0 464-6585

Earn $1,000-$2,000 this semester with a proven CampusFundraiser
3 hour fundraisin g event. Our programs make fundraising easy
with no risks. Fundraising dates are filling quickly, so get with
the program! It works. Contact CampusFundraiser at (888) 923-
3238, or visit www.carnpusfundraiser.com

# 1 Spring Break Vacations!

Cancun, Jamaica, Acapulco, Bahamas,
' Mazatlan, Florida, SPadre. 110% Best Prices!

Book Now & get Free Parties & Meals!
Group Discounts. Now hiring Campus Reps! i
1-800-234-7007 i

endlesssummertours.com

 

  

YMONDAY, NOVEMBER 11, 2902

‘.
,.

 Generals break 20

‘<~ mesm-

i=W&L beats Emory & Henry
for 1st time since 1982,
evens ODAC record at 3-3

K BY BARRETT Dmvs

-. SPORTS \‘v’RlTER

I‘? In their last home game of the

-season, the Washington and Lee foot-

éball team went out on the highest of

‘notes with a 22-9 victory over Emory
& Henry College. This victory marked

(the end of a 19-game dry spell for the

Generals against the Wasps.

'~ W&L took the ﬁeld with an un-

rseen level of intensity and kept it

ithroughout the game.

I: “The attitude we took to the ﬁeld

.'can be attributed to this game being
the seniors’ ﬁnal home game,” junior

r-quarterback Peter Dean said. “We all

‘really tried to step it up out there for

‘those guys.”

1‘ Barely three minutes into the ﬁrst

Iquarter, the Generals took the lead

fthanks to the swift feet of senior run-

‘éning back Chris Sullivan, who scored

ion a 7—yard touchdown run.

.?:- The Wasps responded later in
the first quarter when sophomore

BY JEREMY FRANKLIN
SPORTS EDITOR

3' Kevin Strosnider had a goal and
"an assist as Randolph—Macon
avenged a regular-season loss to
Washington and Lee with a 2-0 win in
the semiﬁnals of the Old Dominion
Athletic Conference men’s soccer
tolunament at the Liberty Hall Fields

“on Saturday.

’ Randolph-Macon’s dreams were
idashed by Roanoke in the ODAC

:Championship, however, as the Ma-
"roons pulled out a 6-1 win in Salem on
Sunday.

I , The Yellow Jackets, advanced to

.:the ﬁnals after posting a 3.-5--._1 confer-

ence record and earning the seventh

iseed in the ODAC Tournament.
j"Randolph-Macon has 19 freshmen and
just four upperclassmen on its roster.
“We’ve been so young that
we’ve kind of made young mistakes,”
iSt.rosnider said. “The ODAC Touma-

'ment has been the best games of our

:'season. When it came to it, we pulled

‘together as a team and we did what
we were supposed to do.”

__ The sixth—seeded Generals ofﬁ-
cially advanced to the semiﬁnals four
days after losing to Virginia Wesleyan
in the quarterﬁnals on Nov. 2. Forward
Josh Hill, who scored a goal and an
assist in the 4-0 tournament victory,
had received his ﬁfth yellow card of
the year against Randolph—Macon to

lose the regular season — a game

hat the Marlins lost, 2-1 —— and
hould have sat out against W&L
der NCAA rules.
, ODAC Commissioner Brad
§Bankston ruled on Wednesday that
s3;Wesleyan would forfeit the match,

    
 

lllS”PiREl'.l Bl’ HT RUSS, Slllls



place kicker David Burks riﬂed a 21-
yard field goal to make the game 7-3,
still in favor of the Generals.

The ﬁerce offense of W&L made
another strong charge in the second
quarter. Once again, W&L put the ball
in the hands of Sullivan, whose 1-yard
run into the end zone put the Gener-
als ahead 14-3.

The E&H offense came back to
score another touchdown in the sec-
ond quarter as well. Junior running
back Dan Hammonds scored on a 2-
yard run that cut the W&L lead to
14-9. The Wasps then tried to make a
two-point conversion but failed, and
at halftime, the Generals had a 14-9
lead.

After the half, the game belonged
to Washington and Lee. Both the of-
fense and the defense rose to the chal-
lenge. The Generals’ defense held the
Wasps scoreless throughout the sec-
ond half, and the offense scored yet
another touchdown.

The third quarter was score-
less for both teams, but in the fourth
quarter, Sullivan dominated once
again. With about seven minutes
left to play in the game, Sullivan
scored both the third touchdown

of the day for the Generals as well
as for himself, as his run of 19 yards
put W&L ahead 20-9. The follow-
ing two-point conversion nailed the

5W&L falls to Randolph-Macon, 2-O

1fMen’s soccer returns to ODAC Tournament, but can’t top red-hot Ye

B.\RRJ:Tr l).\\V 5/ The Rzng/Irm Pill

SEASON-ENDING Loss. Senior Paul Negron and the Generals fell 2-0 to Randolph-
Macon in the ODAC Tournament semiﬁnals Saturday at the Liberty Hall Fields.

which ofﬁcially went down as a 1-0
W&L win, but the Generals had al-
ready missed three days of practice.
Senior captain Brad Murphy
thought that the confusion in the
middle of the week may have hurt
W&L, but he said it didn’t cost them
the game against Randolph—Macon.
“We didn’t find out until 4
o’clock on Wednesday, so we didn’t
even start practicing until Wednes-
day night,” he said. “But I think it

made us more focused when we knew
we had a second opportunity, and the
ODAC Championship was just one
game away.”

W&L looked focused in the ﬁrst
half, but couldn’t put one past
Randolph—Macon freshman goalie
Nick Warner, who made 10 saves for
the match.

The Yellow Jackets didn’t have
too many good scoring chances until
the closing seconds, when Strosnider

onnnwn  

Seats title, has 53 cubic
feet but cargo space. and

—year skid against

coffin shut on the Wasps as W&L
held a 22-9 lead.

Dean said that he was “really
proud of the way we played today.

/low Jackets in conference semiﬁnals

set up freshman David Tait for the
game-winning tally with 0:03 left on
the clock.

“They scored with three seconds
to go, but we had a lot of opportuni-
ties in the first half,” Murphy said.
“At halftime we were down 1-0, but
Coach (Rolf Piranian) told us we could
definitely do it because we controlled
the whole ﬁrst half. I wasn’t worried
at all to be down 1-0.”

The Generals dominated the
opening minutes of the second half,
but again Warner and the Yellow Jack-
ets’ defense held when it counted.

Strosnider sealed the game with
34:23 remaining as he connected on a

‘nice centering feed from Brian Fowler

for a 2-0 advantage.

W&L ﬁnishes the year with an 8-
9-2 overall mark. After dropping a 1-0
loss to ODAC champion Roanoke on
Sept. 28, the Generals were 1-5-1 and
0-3 in the conference.

“After that slow start, we really
put a lot together,” said Murphy, who
led W&L with eight goals and ﬁve as-
sists for 21 points. “The younger guys
really started playing to their poten-
tial, and we had a lot more conﬁdence
once we got a few conference wins.”

The Generals graduate six se-
niors, but Murphy is confident that
W&L will move back up the ODAC
ladder over the next couple of years.

“These guys, especially the
freshman class, have so much poten-
tial,” he said. “Next year and the year
after, these guys are going to be re-
ally strong. There are really good
young players on this team, and once
they get to be juniors and seniors,
they’re really going to do a lot in the
ODAC.” ‘

BACKFIELD
CONTRIBUTION.
Sophomore
fullback Chris
Caramore rushes
for some of his 42
yards in W&L’s 22-
9 win over Emory
& Henry at Wﬂson
Field on Saturday.
Caramore also
caught a team—high
ﬁve passes for 46
yards to
complement senior
tailback Chris
Sullivan’s 170 yards
and three
touchdowns.
(Photo by Barrett
Daws/T/re Ring-
tum P/)1)

Everything seemed to click and we re-
ally played like a solid football team.”

Sullivan led the Generals’ offense
by rushing 44 times for 170 yards and

l‘ROr\l b"l".ll"l’ REPORTS

WESTMINSTER, Md. — The
Washington and Lee wrestling team
ﬁnished its fall season by winning
one of its five matches at the
McDaniel Invitational on Saturday.

Juniors Michael Bennett and
Joe Mueller each won four of their
ﬁve matches on the afternoon to lead
the Generals.

W&L defeated Gallaudet 42-6
in a dual match that featured only
one actual contest. At the 165-
pound class, senior Alex Poor
pinned Gal1audet’s Jeremy Randolph
at 3:55; the remainder of the matches
were forfeits.

McDaniel then handed the Gen-
erals a 48-9 loss, with Mueller and
Bennett recording the only victories
for W&L. The 184-pound Mueller

PAGE 5

Wasps

three touchdowns. Because of his
performance against Emory & Henry,
he now needs only 68 yards next week
against Greensboro College to break
Marc Watson’s school career rush-
ing record of 3,1 12 yards.

Sophomore fullback Chris
Caramore also had a solid game
against the Wasps, rushing for 42
yards on nine carries and catching ﬁve
passes for 46 yards.

“I really wanted to break the
100-yard mark today, but I am not
upset because all that matters at the
end of the season is the win-loss
record, and we won today,” Caramore
said.

Another positive note for the
Generals was the appearance of Dean
on the field. On his return to the
lineup, Dean completed 11-of-28
passes for 109 yards and two inter-
ceptions. “It took me a while to get
readjusted, but once I found my
groove, I was more than comfortable,”
he said.

Sophomore linebacker Lloyd
Wilson led the W&L defense with
nine tackles, while senior defensive
end Brett Burns recorded six tackles
and two sacks.

Wrestlers compete a
McDaniel Invitational

Generals drop 4 of 5 matches at ear/y-season meet

beat the Green Terror’s Steve
Jennings 9-5, while Bennett pinned
Eric Bartczak in 5:27 at the heavy-
weight class.

The Generals dropped a 36-22
decision to Albright and a 43-7 match
to the Newport News Apprentice
School, although Mueller and
Bennett each picked up a pair of vic-
tories.

North Carolina-Pembroke then
handed W&L a 36-9 defeat, includ-
ing the only losses on the afternoon
for Mueller and Bennett.

Senior John Polena defeated
Pe1nbroke’s Michael Chandler 5-0 at
the 141—pound class, and senior Ja-
son Smee beat Scott Metcalf by
pinfall in 1:05.

The Generals begin their winter
season with the W&L Quadrangu—
lar on Jan. 4.

SCOREBOARD

To Be Announced

Volleyball

W&L in NCAA Division lll Tournament
Women’s Soccer

W&L in NCAA Division lll Tournament

Wednesday, Nov. 13
Women’s Swimming
Hollins at W&L, 7 p.m. ‘

\

W&L SPORTS SCHEDULE: NOVEMBER 11-17

Saturday, Nov. 16

Cross Country

W&L at NCAA South/Southeast
Regional (at Mary Washington)

Riding

W&L at James Madison/Bridgewater
invitational

Football

W&L at Greensboro, 1 p.m.

  
 

  
  

This bracelet was a gist Ambec Apodaca

received from the earning whom she halprd team with
drug and alcohoi problems. she was wearing it
Mean an umsmgs drunk driwir ‘nook her Ilsa.

Friends Don‘: Lat 1’-‘reams arm Drunk.

is available with 180 lap
and a 6-speed manual
shift. Even evolution
carft fully exptain it.
@312 l{}=liZvT...%’s. ?tt€Il0Ft:  L155 ii... iii}.  {RE
[ft]:/'li’»"r.FlT.i*.i.ilE-E‘it’l.<.tl ' Et’W;l."3Wtl%lt2t.l.l§BS
ii  til‘-I} %5ll§tttlt‘a'FE£. EtE.‘i..l.t%lE8 1'61)‘.

E. Left ‘*5. w  .,-iréi’; l)FEE£l‘«l3l..i‘t’ 
 . .3li3TLlrlL Eileﬁlﬁﬁ‘ Fﬁiii W31‘ ‘W11’

    

 
      

Starting smart S Samaritans.” -

we-.«.s¢ wz.-owco:-.«

 

 

 

 

PAGE 6

 

Spogﬁg

 

Immtw,  
SPORISED R _

 mwmN
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 11, 2002;?‘


I?‘

e"-.:-5.-'.‘-‘3-"'3-\. “3.:

Volleyball, women’s soccer teams bring home conference titles

I jEBRKs/ e l'rzg—luPln'

TEAM EFFORT. Taylor Gibson (attacking), Emily Wolﬁrig, Susan Gaillard, Stacey
Kirnmel,]ennifer Lux and Michelle Chastain are just some of the reasons why
the Generals are headed back to the NCAA Division III Tournament.

Generals breeze by trio of
opponents in conference,
make return trip to NCAA
Division III Tournament

BY JEREMY FRANKLIN
SPORTS EDITOR

HARRISONBURG —— Wash-
ington and Lee extended its domi-
nance in the Old Dominion Athletic
Conference into the postseason on
Friday and Saturday, sweeping all
three of their opponents in the con-
ference tournament at Eastern Men-
nonite.

The Generals ran the table in
the regular season, going 10-0 in the
ODAC. They beat No. 8 Lynchburg,
fourth-seeded Randolph-Macon
and No. 3 Bridgewater in the tour-
nament to win their second straight
conference title.

Freshman Christine Gladysz to-
taled 124 assists and 33 digs over
the three matches and was named
tournament MVP. She said that the
Generals played some of their best
volleyball of the year in the ODAC
Tournament.

“We played really well, and
we’ve improved immensely,”
Gladysz said.

Gladysz and middle blockers
Susan Gaillard and Taylor Gibson
have all contributed to the team as
freshmen, and the Generals have just
one upperclassman, senior captain
Stacey Kirnmel.

W&L struggled slightly earlier
in the year when they were adapt-
ing to different personnel.

“Getting used to everyone play-
ing with different people takes a
while,” Gladysz said. “In the middle
of the season, we changed our
‘lineup, and it was a little bit of a

Men’s swimmers open year, women fall to Yellow Jackets 

rough time for us. But as a team, I
think we are finally coming to-
gether.”

W&L beat the Hornets 30-13, -

30—17, 30-14 in the quarterﬁnals on
Friday. Sophomore outside hitter
Emily Wolfmg, who joined Gladysz
on the All-Tournament team, re-
corded 14 kills to lead the Generals.

Sophomore outside hitter
Michelle Chastain ﬁnished with 13
kills, and Gibson contributed 12 kills.

Gaillard tallied 13 kills to lead
W&L to a 30-28, 30-28, 30-21 win
over Randolph-Macon in the semi-
ﬁnals on Saturday morning. Gibson
contributed 11 kills, while Chastain
notched 10 kills and three blocks.

The Generals then swept
Bridgewater 30-23, 36-34, 31-29 to
win their fifth ODAC title in six
years.

Chastain had 13 kills and 11
digs, while Gaillard recorded 12 kills
and three blocks and Wolﬁng to-
taled 1 1 kills. Sophomore libero Jen-
nifer Lux tallied 19 digs against the
Eagles.

On Friday, Chastain was
named All-ODAC First Team, while
Gaillard was tabbed Rookie of the
Year and made All-ODAC Second
Team. Bryan Snyder received rec-
ognition as conference Coach of
the Year.

W&L (31-7) has established a
new program record for wins in a
season and will compete in the
NCAA Division III Tournament.
Date and opponent will be an-
nounced early this week.

Gladysz said the Generals be-
lieve they can compete with the other
teams in the NCAA ﬁeld.

“We played very well in the
ODAC Tournament and won all of
our matches in three games,” she
said. “Coming off this weekend, we
should be extremely conﬁdent.”

BARREIT DA\Vs/ The fling-

     

mPl2i
ODAC VICTORY. Senior Matthew Kimbrough and the Generals opened the 2002-03
season with a 165-63 win over Randolph-Macon at the Twombly Pool on Friday.

Generals avenge loss to Wesleyan, beat Lynchburg on penalty kicks for 1st ODAC crown

w-

BY DAVID CROWELL
ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITOR

SALEM — The Washington and
Lee women’s soccer team failed to
score through 110 minutes of game
play. For two physically exhausting
halves and two 10-minute sudden
death overtime periods, the Generals
fought to hold a 0-0 tie with
Lynchburg on Saturday afternoon.

But they eventually buried the
shots that mattered the most.

Freshman defender Heather
Rogers nailed the deciding penalty
kick and sophomore Emily Barker
made a crucial save to give W&L a 5-
4 victory on penalty kicks. With the
win, the 14th-ranked Generals
wrapped up the first Old Dominion
Athletic Conference Championship in
the program’s 16-year history.

“It’s amazing, it’s almost surr ,”
senior midfielder and co-captain Jenny
Thomas said. “We’ve been working
so hard and for all the seniors, this is
our fourth year and this is the culmi-
nation of our years of wor .”

A stingy Lynchburg defense that
had given up only six conference
goals over the course of the season
made W&L (16-1-3) battle all day for
the title.

The Generals and Hornets played
a physical first half to a deadlock, with
W&L holding a 4-3 advantage in
shots and a 4-2 advantage in comer
kicks.

Junior forward Fontaine Marcoux
got the closest to giving W&L the
lead with a shot from 10 yards out that
Lynchburg goalie Erin Johnson eas-
ily stopped.

Lynchburg   ’S SE80“ 

BY DAVID CROWELL
ASSISTANT spORTs EDITOR

LYNCHBURG — The Washington and Lee ﬁeld
hockey team fell to top-seeded Lynchburg, 2-0, on
Friday afternoon in the semifinals of the Old Do-
minion Athletic Conference Tournament, one of the
few obstacles that the Generals failed to overcome

this season.

In only its second season as a full varsity sport,
the ﬁeld hockey team ﬁnished with a 10-9 record
and a 6-3 mark in conference play, a huge improve-
ment from the 2001 year, when the squad finished

3- 10, 2-9 in ODAC play.

The team also earned the No. 4 seed in the ODAC
Tournament, allowing them to host a quarterﬁnal
match, which they won against Virginia Wesleyan.

“It was a very exciting season,” junior co-cap-
tain Kelly Taffe said. “We set high goals for our-
selves and we felt we could win the tournament. I
think we had the success we did because we never
underestimated our ability, and we set high goals.”

1 Against the Hornets, however, the Generals

didn’t fare better than they had in a 2-0 defeat on
Sept. 21. Lynchburg held an 18-1 advantage in shots
and a 9-1 advantage in penalty comers.
1 Dawn McGaha led the Hornets with a goal and
an assist. She scored the game-winner with 26:30
remaining in the game when she took a pass and
beat freshman goaltender Elise Gelinas.

Kyla Hoﬁman added some breathing room when
she took a pass from McGaha and scored with 8:22 left

BY MICHAEL LEE
SPORTS WRITER

Washington and Lee swimming
saw a busy weekend. Friday night
brought the Yellow Jackets from
Randolph—Macon to Twombly Pool,
and Saturday saw the men’s team
travel to Mary Washington.

The W&L women lost to
Randolph-Macon in a hard-fought
meet, 132-130, while the W&L men
won in a blowout, 165-63. In action
at Mary Washington, the men
dropped a close meet by a ﬁnal score
of 108-96.

The teams swam a long program
on Friday night, including both 100
and 200-yard races in the butterﬂy,
breaststroke and backstroke.

W&L senior captain Blair
Huffman earned a first-place ﬁnish in
the 1,000 freestyle, with junior Mandi

    

EBBR beRigIumP

ODAC CI-IAMPS. Senior midﬁelderjenny Thomas (2) helped lead Washington and
Lee to tournament wins over Bridgewater, Virginia Wesleyan and Lynchburg —
the three teams the Generals didn’t beat in the regular season.

The three-time defending ODAC
champions controlled the ball
throughout the second half,
outshooting W&L 9-2, with the Gen-
erals only able to make a few quick
runs into the Lynchburg zone.

Barker made a huge save in the
85th minute to preserve the tie, stop-
ping a point-blank shot by all-touma-
ment player Jennifer Clayton.

“She has been a great stronghold
for us in the back,” Thomas said.
“With her and Abby (Pfeffer), it’s very
corriforting to have some people in
goal that you can trust.”

The two overtimes featured very
little offense as both teams went 20
rriinutes without a big threat, forcing

Kimble close behind to take second.
Huffman also won the 200-yard but-
terﬂy and the 200 individual medley.

Freshman Beth Sauer won the
100 breaststroke in a spectacular race.
Sauer managed to pull away from two
Randolph-Macon swimmers in the
last 10 yards of the race to take first
with atime of 1:16.50.

The loss was W&L’s ﬁrst in 48
consecutive regular-season ODAC
dual meets. Head coach Kiki Jacobs
was disappointed, but noted a strong
opposing team. “Randolph-Macon
brought a very strong freshman class
tonight; we just couldn’t beat them.
Several of them will probably go to
Nationals and place, and that’s difﬁ-
cult to compete with.”

The men’s team had a much
easier time against Randolph-Macon,
whose men’s swimming program is in
its first year.

a shootout that pitted ﬁve shooters
from each team a mere 12 yards from
the opposing goalie.

Each team converted on their ﬁrst
three attempts, with W&L getting
scores from sophomore forward
Maggie Hope, Thomas and Marcoux.

When Barker made a diving save
of Kat Stuart’s attempt and senior
defender Lindsey Duran hit her kick,
the stage was set for Rogers, who
calmly converted and gave W&L its

' ﬁrst title.

“I just wanted to make one save,”
Barker said. “IfI rriade one save, I knew
we would score on all ﬁve of our shots.”

Coach Neil Cunningham also
praised the play of his goalie, who

While the 400 medley relay team
was defeated by the visitors, the
W&L men went on to win almost ev-
ery following event — the lone ex-
ceptions being the 100 and 200 breast-
stroke races, in large part due to the
absence of injured senior Zach Fake.

Multiple event winners included
senior Patrick Frankfort, who won the
200 freestyle and 200 backstroke and
junior Eric Ritter, who won the 100
backstroke, 100 freestyle and 50
freestyle.

Junior Drew Catanese won the
100 butterﬂy, junior Jonathan James
won the 200 IM, sophomore Chris
Colby won the 200 butterﬂy and fresh-
man Clark Barrineau won the 500
freestyle.

This was repeated in large part
on Saturday at Mary Washington, but
the Generals were unable to overcome
the large team that Mary Washington

in school history

didn’t play in a shootout loss in last
year’s ODAC Tournament. .

“She’s done great and she’s made,
giant strides,” he said. “Even though
she didn’t play at this time last year,
she’s had a great season and she
capped it this weekend with two great
performances.”

For her efforts, Barker earned a
spot on the All-ODAC Tournament
team, along with freshman midﬁelder.
Gina Von Stemberg, junior defender
Meghan Hayde and sophomore
midfielder Romney Willson. .-

W&L advanced to the ﬁnals with
a thrilling 2-1 victory over Virginia’.
Wesleyan on Friday afternoon. The
Generals avenged their only loss of
the season, a 1-0 defeat in Norfolk on
Sept. 7. N

VWC struck first in the secon
half, but the Generals answered only
2:31 later as a ﬂip throw-in by Tho-
mas hit a Marlin defender and got to
the back of the net. .,

Marcoux, playing in her first
game since breaking her foot in a game
against Chowari on Oct. 20, scored
the winning goal, her ninth of the sea-
son, after a free kick by Duran de-
ﬂected to her. -

“I think she happened to be on
the spot and the ball fell where she
happened to be, but it was nice to
have her back in the rotation,”
Cunningham said. “We were able to
get 20 minutes a half out of her, which
was a real help.”

The Generals return to action in
a new setting, the NCAA Division H1
Tournament. The time, date, location
and opponent will be announced this
week

    

jiza BRo‘_Oi<s/The Rtillg-I1I7IIP})1‘

SUCCESSFUL sEAsoN.]unior forward Kelly T affe (18), sophomore link Kitt Murphy and the W&L ﬁeld hockey ‘
team concluded their second year as a varsity program with a semifinal showing in the ODAC Tournament,

“They deﬁnitely beat us fair and square,” Taffe
said. “We played hard, but they outhustled us.
They were very aggressive and played with a lot of
intensity. They beat us to every ball.”

In goal for the Generals, Gelinas split time with
classmate Courtney Harrison to combine for nine saves.

With the victory, Lynchburg advanced to the ﬁ-
nals, where Roanoke avenged a regular season 1-0
overtime loss on Oct. 23 by defeating the Hornets, 3- 1.

Despite the loss, the future looks extremely
bright for the Generals. W&L will only lose senior
co-captain Kathleen Gibson to graduation, leaving if
a solid group of players to return in 2003.

“The prospects are exciting,” Taffe said “We will
have so much more depth and leadership next year.
Since we only had one senior, the underclassmen had ,\
to play every game and gained so much experience’.
VVith that experience, we’ll be a much better team.” =

ﬁelded. Even though the host team
lost seven of 1 1 events, their 23 swim-
mers overcame the Generals’ 12 to win.

Barrineau led the team with wins
in the 1,000 and 500 freestyle events.
Frankfort won the 200 freestyle, and

Ritter out-touched his closest oppo— .i.

nent to win the 50 freestyle. Colby
won the 200 butterﬂy by three sec-
onds, and James won the 100
freestyle.

Jacobs was quite pleased with
the tea.rn’s performance. “It’s tough
to swim so well and still lose the meet,
but the guys had a great day,” she

said. “This was their second meet in it

two days, and that always makes it
difﬁcult to compete, but they did well
against a deeper team.” .1
The W&L women return to action
on Wednesday when they host Hollins ‘
at 7 p.m., while the men will wait until
Nov. 22 to host Salem International.

 

ti.

Arch

<9-375.155

I‘/\o,lS

R 553..
v. we

c»7.-I

 

1
-‘l

Students, faculty disappointed with GMA’s image of W&L

BY KATIE JENKINS
ST.\l"l" WRITER

Approximately 400 Washington
and Lee University students turned
out for the Nov. 11, 2002 broadcast of
‘Good Morning America’—live from
Lexington. The show began at 7:00
a.m. on the VMI campus, despite what
officials said was inadequate lighting.
Seven W&L students joined
Lynchburg affiliate employees as well
as the 100 member traveling staff to
set up and prepare for the production.
The show was
appreciative of
W&L students
for their help;

“I was generally disappointed with the
type of coverage that W&L received

ment about where they live and
where they are . . . what that be-
speaks is neat. It really is an ex-
traordinary pride,” commented
GMA anchor Charlie Gibson after
the show.

While this was Good Morning
America’s first trip to Lexington,
Charlie Gibson is familiar with the area.
Working with ABC’s affiliate in
Lynchburg, he covered W&L’s Mock
Convention in 1968. “Nixon won,” he
said. “I love being back on the two
campuses.” When asked whether he
preferred Wash-
ington andLee or
VMI, Gibson
said, “Were I to

“W636 really on GMA.\We hadplied themwith apply to 0116 Or
grateful for their lid rth id b t the other, I think
help because we many Very 50 HGWSWO y eas u I’d be one of the
cou1dn’t pull it tl1€yWCt?€ justlooking for Generals.”
off without ' ' >2 Unfortu-
them,” said Lisa ememlmnem’ Pure and Simple. nately, W&L was
Finkel, media re- TOM WHITE not the primary
lations represen— _ reason GMA de-
tative with the DIRECTOR OF (’OMMUNICATl0NS cided to broad-
i‘ Good Morning castfromLexing-

4!

America show.

Students began appearing on
the front lawn as early as 6:00 a.m.,
although students were still arriv-
ing after 8:00. Many students
brought signs or banners, hoping
for the chance to show their love
for W&L, Greek organizations, ath-
letic teams, relatives or significant
others back home. The women’s
Cross Country team showed up in
their uniforms; the tennis team
waved tennis rackets with balloons
attached. A poster proclaiming,
“Canada=Axis of Evil” was particu-
larly noticeable. “People’s excite-

ton on Veteran’s day. The real appeal,
they admitted, was VMI. This was evi-
dent in the lopsided coverage of the
two schools—an hour and a half at
VMI, with the ﬁnal half hour from
W&L’s Front Lawn.

Many students also complained
because they did not feel that the
show accurately represented Wash-
ington and Lee. The mountain
boarding exhibition, in particular,
angered students. “That wasn’t
W&L. Nobody here
mountainboards,” commented
Christi Palazzolo, ’O6.

Others students were shocked

 

BY KYLE WASS
srirr RRITER

Students will have a chance to bowl frozen
turkeys, have their palms read and go to pseudo
casinos on Washington and Lee’s campus next
spring as they compete for a trip to St. Thomas.

‘A Night to Remember’ re
      

Most of the current undergraduate student
body at Washington and Lee are not old enough
to remember the last time organizations came to-
gether for the event called “A Night to Remem-
ber” (N2R). The last time LIFE and other organi-
zations arranged the carnpus—wide event was in
the winter term of 1999. It is unclear why the

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

NG-TUM

ON AIR. Allison Gruenwald, Martha Frankfort and Delia Boone respond excitedly
to ABC cameramen on the Front Lawn last Monday moring during the ‘Good

that the University allowed the broad-
cast to abuse the Front Lawn for. the
mountain boarding scene. Grounds
Supervisor at W&L John Wise is not
worried about the grass.

“Mountain boarding normally
leaves ruts, but there were not lots on
the Front Lawn,” Wise said. “The
grass will come back on its own. Pres-
sure on real wet soil packs the soil, so
when its dry we’ll get some irrigation

  

CVCIH.

_lEE BR()Ol{S / T/JP Ringtiim P/Ii
VILLIAGE PEOPLE. Other carnpus-supported alcohol-free events included A Night Abroad in the GHQ.

board soon.”

Physical Plant plans ‘final solution’ for bugs

‘ BY MEGAN MORGAN
.\SSlST.\\’l‘ \’F.\‘("S IZDITOR

As residents of Davis Donn prepare
to head home for Thanksgiving, many
are aware that upon retuming to Wash-
ington and Lee they may be met with an
unexpected surprise: an end to their cock-
roach problem. While all of the college
dorms have their share of bugs, residents
said the problem has become increas-
ingly acute in the Davis Domis. Raid has
become as common as hairspray as more
and more cockroaches are spotted, and
many residents, such as freshman Chris-
tina Snowden, have had up—close en-
counters with these pests.

About a month ago, “something
fell behind the head of my bed and I
reached down to pick it up. When I
reached for the object, I almost picked
up a 2 1/2 inch roach,” Snowden said.

Since then she has covered her room
in mach traps and sleeps with the lights
in the hope of keeping these bugs away.

Stories like this have become in-
creasingly common within the build-
ing, and freshman Jacob Spencer
swears that this is because “The cock-
roaches are getting bolder. At first, they
would just laugh from a distance, but
the other night I was talking on the
phone and I looked down and there
was a cockroach on my knee. If I dis-
appear, you all know why.”

The breaking point was when
Dorm Counselor Ann Bailey Lynn
found a bug ﬂoating in her closed
bottle of Vanilla Coke.

With no end in sight to this infes-
tation, residents such as George Awk-
ward IH began calling the Building and
Grounds Department to complain.
“Cockroaches in your soda, cock-
roaches in your bed, cockroaches in
your bowls or even cockroach nest in
your dresser. These are the scary tales
of most freshmen dorms. We kill one
here or there, but there are millions left.
We need action to get rid of these

pest,” he said, echoing the sentiment
of many in the building.

When Building and Grounds be-
came ‘aware of the problems in Davis
Dorm, they immediately called Tenninex,
whom they contract out for all bug-re-
lated problems. Terminex already sprays
several of the freshmen buildings on a
regular basis, but this is the first time
that Davis has had problems severe
enough to warrant their being called.

The procedure they perform is not
an actual fumigation, which would re-
quire all of the occupants of Davis to be
relocated, and it is not harmful to resi-
dents of the building. The process en-
tails a poison being sprayed along key
spots in the building where the bugs tend
to reside, such as along the pipelines
and baseboards. Davis has already been

sprayed once since the complaints be- ‘

gan to come in, but the procedure does
not kill all of the bugs in the building and
so it must be repeated on a regular basis
in order to be effective.

tums to W&L

event has not taken place annually since then.
However, it has come back into effect this year,
since the members of LIFE decided to bring it back
“because of its unique approach to alcohol use on
campus,” said Kathleen Gibson, a member of LIFE
who has been helping to organize the upcoming

With what seem to be so few chances to en-
gage in many alcohol—free social activities, this event
provides an opportunity to do just that. The event
is unique because it does not punish students for
misusing alcohol; it also does not exclude fraterr1i—
ties and sororities by offering alternative activities
only outside the Greek system. Rather, it seeks to
include members of all organizations throughout
campus, including all Greek organizations — fratemi-
ties and sororities alike — who would like to partici-
pate. Gibson said N2R is unique in that it “seeks to
include the Greeks and other organizations in a sub-
stance—free night of fun and prizes.”

The organizations currently participating by
giving money and participating include the Execu-
tive Committee, the Interfraternity Council,
Panhellenic, Minority Student Association, the Resi-
dence Life staif, and LIFE. Gibson said, “We’re hop-
ing that other organizations on campus will jump on

N2R is currently set to take place the night of
March 215‘, and “will involve. games, contests, or

and fertilize and reseed.” A

Good Morning America provided
national publicity for the university,
but everyone does not agree that the
publicity was positive. While VMI
cadets were interviewed and given the
chance to discuss their school’s rig-
orous academics and tradition of
honor, Washington and Lee was only
shown superﬁcially. Students were
shown goofing off and having a good

see NZR, page 2

PHI

T/it student unite of Wudnngton and In Uniuertny one 7897 (D On/int ut: pntuu/u.edu

MI,  not   dra boadcast

 

. . - VOLllllE_C.V, N0.XV
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 18,2002

   

_]l:B BRO()l{.< / T/IFR/V/lg-//I/lip/J1’

Morning America’ broadcast. For more information and pictures about the

Lexington event, please see page 5.

time, with the focus primarily on moun-
tain boarding and making apple but-
ter. The overall impression was that
Washington and Lee is nothing more
than a Southern, mountain university.
“I was generally disappointed w/ the
type of coverage that W&L received
on GMA. We had plied them with
many very solid, newsworthy ideas
but they were just looking for enter-
tainment, pure and simple. But the

Searches for

BY CALEY ANDERSON
.\S.\'l.\"l'.iNT .\'F.\\'.\' EI)lT()R

As another year goes by, Wash-
ington and Lee will soon find itself
searching for new leaders. Three ad-
ministrative positions, the offices of
the Dean of Students, Dean of the Col-
lege, and the new office of University
Commons Director, will soon be open-
ing up. As these new leaders are
sought, the W&L Women’s Forum will
be pushing for women to be hired.

Dr. H. Thomas Williams, Acting
Dean of the College, and Dr. David
Howison, Dean of Students, both
noted figures on campus, will both be
stepping down from their posts by the
end of the year. These leadership po-
sitions, which are critical and impor-
tant in both the day-to-day operation
of the university as well as in the ef-
fort to create long—range direction and
planning, will thus soon be empty.
The W&L Women’s Forum, led by
sophomore and Chair Becky Skaggs
and advised by University Counse-
lor Anne-Schroer-Lamont and En-
glish Professor Lesley Wheeler, would

GMA was not without its positives.
Our web traffic seems to be up five-
fold, said Tom White, Director of Com-
munications and External Relations.
He believes that “[Viewers will] see
Washington and Lee as a school in a
beautiful setting serving as the host
for a television program that was re-
sorting to entertainment for its audi-
ence . . . I was very pleased with the
overall increased interest in W&L that

he GMA progrBgeneratei .” .

eans egln

like to see women placed into these
positions. “Research shows that ev-
eryone benefits when women and Ini-
norities are in a position of leader-
ship,” said sophomore Susan Sqmers,
KEWL secretary.

The effort to hire the new Deans
is being handled through the office of
Laurent Boetsch, the University Pro-
vost, though President Thomas
Burish has the final say in who is hired.
The ﬁnal decision will likely be made
before the end of the year, and not
over the summer, so that the new
Deans can prepare for their duties.
Additionally, the Dean of Students
traditionally lives in the Lee—Jackson
house, located next to the co-op. The
new Dean of Students will likely re-
quire time to move in.

W&L is an equal opportunity em-
ployer, so there is a distinct possibility
that one or more of the new admir1istra—
tors will be female.

Currently, of the eight deanships
and associate deanships at the Uni-
versity, four are occupied by women:
Dean of Freshmen Dawn

see DEANS, page 2

Diversity event gains mixed reviews

‘ll/lix don’t match’ vanes D-ha/I seats

BY MATTHEW MCDERMOTI‘

EDITOR lN CHIEF

Contrasting clothes and random seating would pro-
mote greater student interaction, PRIDE hoped as it kicked
off its ‘Mix don’t match’ night in the Dining Hall last

week.

“Students were encouraged to dress up funky or in
something different,” said sophomore Tran Kim, who

wore a Vietnamese outﬁt.

Additionally, upon swiping their cards, students
picked up one of six colored cards and sat at the tables

marked in a similar hue.

More than one dozen professors, previous ap-
proached by PRIDE officers, guided discussions.
“It was a pleasure meeting some new students,”

said Religion Professor Harlan Beckley. “It was good

for students who hadn’t met each other to talk.”
Though he did not wear contrasting colors, Beckley
said, “a number of students thought I did.”
“A component of PRIDE is to promote discussion
of how people interact,” explained senior Patrice

Wedderburn, past PRIDE president.

school.”

   
   

#5

jE.B Bkoolgs / T/Jt’ Ring-I/rm 

MELANGE. Avery Gholston, another PRIDE member and
Kyle Meehan initiated the diversity program in D—Hall.

To further festivities, the D—Hall simultaneously held
its annual Wok Night.

“Everyone (in PRIDE) thought the event was a
success,” Kim said. “Next time we’d like to move the
event earlier in the year, to maybe the second week of

 

 

 

""’ "’~ V6 

F. G Mr“

PAGE   3? 3%?

I E.-mall news briefs to

 

Noted work/fami/y author
to speak in Leyburn Auditorium

Dr. Sylvia Ann Hewlett, a nationally known author on jug-
gling work and family, will discuss professional and personal life
issues on Tuesday, Nov. 19 at 7:30 p.m. in Leyburn Lib1ary’s
Nortlien Auditorium at Washington and Lee University.

Hewlett’s talk, “Making Smart Choices in Work and Life,”
is sponsored by the Williams School of Commerce, Economics,
and Politics and W&L’s William Lyne Wilson Lecture Fund. Her
talk is open to the public without charge.
Hewlett is the author of Creating a Life: Pmfessional Women
and the Quest for Children, a book that inspired the controver-
sial Time magazine cover article last spring, “Babies vs. 

Hewlett’s book was based on a survey of men and
women in high—powered careers, including investment
banking, law , and academia.

Among her other books is The War Against Parents,
which was co—authored with acadernician Cornell West.
Hewlett, an economist by training, is the founder of the
National Parenting Association, a non—proﬁt group dedi-
cated to developing farriily—friendly policies in the work-
place. She has taught economics at Barnard College in
New York and was a 1999 fellow at Harvard University’s
Center for Study of Values in Public Life.

 

Fechnay Leadership Development
Program and Ftopes Course available

Washington and Lee University’s new ropes chal-
lenge course is now available to W&L groups and organi-
zations seeking to advance teamwork and trust through
adventure learning.

The course, part of a gift from Scott Fechnay ’69, is
the centerpiece of W&L’s Fechnay Leadership Develop-
ment Program, which provides classroom and experiential
opportunities for athletic team captains. Fechnay was a
soccer team participant in his four years at W&L, serving
as captain of the team his senior year.

The course was built by Karl Rohnke, a 1960 W&L
graduate, author, and a founder of High 5 Adventure Learn-
ing. Rohrike received a dozen varsity letters as a W&L
student (four each in soccer, swimming and track and ﬁeld)
and was in the first class of the 1988 inductees in W&L’s
Athletic Hall of Fame.

Wendy Orrison, W&L‘s field hockey coach, James
Dick, director of the Outing Club, and W.C. “Burr” Datz,
director of Leadership Development, are trained course
facilitators. They will provide workshops ﬁlled with ad-
venture, fun and learning opportunities for campus groups
and organizations seeking to increase personal self-confi-
dence, trust and mutual support within their membership.

Information on the ropes course is available at http:/
/athletics.wlu.edu/leadership/. The Web site includes dates
available for use of the course, a registration form and risk
waivers. The documents, which must be completed a week
in advance of an event, also may be obtained at the Uni-
versity Center, room 207.

News courtesy Wllt.€dLt

 

Date

 

Temperatures
ﬂ-3318 Mostly Sunny 51°/35°
% 19  Partly Cloudy 56°/30°
‘%\f‘20  Partly Cloudy 52°/35°
% 21  Partly Cloudy 54°/36°
'';—’(‘W 22 i 9' Partly Cloudy 54°/31°
3%: 23  Partly Cloudy 55°/35°
ﬁﬁ-E 24  Partly cloudy 52°/36°

WEATHER COURTESY OF WE.\THER.COr\l

Lexington
Weekly
Forecast

Chance of Precip.

0 °!o

U °.-"o

2U °/o

20 °/o

20 °/o

20 °.-to

20 °/o

DEANS, from page 1

Watkins; Associate Dean of Stu-
dents Anne Schroer—Lamont; Asso-
ciate Dean of the College Jeanine
Stewart; and Associate Dean of the
Williams School Elizabeth Oliver.
Womens groups would like to see
more women fill full dean positions,
instead of just being associate
deans.

“We are trying to promote
women candidates in the search for
open positions,” said sophomore
Becky Skaggs, Women’s Forum
president.

After Christmas, Women’s Fo-
rum will run a letter from KEWL in
the first issue of ‘She Says,’ their
annual or biannual publication.

“We’re facilitating (KEWL’s)
work,” Skaggs said

Women’s Forum is considering
dedicating a January discussion to
the advantages of a female dean.

Groups
plan
for NZR

NZR, from page 1

other parties at whichever organiza-
tions choose to have them,” Gibson
said.

There were many popular activi-
ties from the event in 1999 that will
probably be carried over into 2003,
including Frozen Turkey Bowling, a
Palm Reader, Casino Night held at
various fraternities, and Mocktails —
non-alcoholic cocktails — sponsored
by the members of LIFE.

In addition, Gibson said that
“people (who) go to each event will
win tickets that they can use at an
auction that will be held at the end of
the night.” The smaller items lined up
for auction have yet to be announced,
but the grand prize this year in the
auction is an al1—expenses paid trip to
St. Thomas.

All in all, Gibson said, “I think it’s
really going to be a blast.”

evetop ski,l~lSl,:yo.§i.i,canLisle’  your caree

‘harge to  epre nra *

 

“We are also going to have a
poster campaign in the next week or
so,” added Somers. “We’re consid-
ering a petition, but that’s not yet
decided.”

W o m e n s
groups believe
such work is
necessary, as
even since the
University be-
gan hiring
women to fill ad-
ministrative po-
sitions, most
hirees to those
positions have

H0wIs()N

been men.

Additionally, the new Univer-
sity Commons will likely be open-
ing next year. A new administrative
position will be created to oversee
the day to day operation and man-
agement of the building, which will

I MONDAY. NOVEMBER 18, 2(lL2

Administrative replacements sought

include, among other things, a small
theatre, the new Dining Hall and Co-
op, and various other facilities for
student use.

In charge of this hiring project
is none other than the office of the
Dean of Students, Howison, who will
also likely come to a decision be-
fore the close of the year. Construc-
tion on the Commons, which was
originally slated to be ready by
Spring of 2003 Fall of 2004, has pro-
ceeded much faster than antici-
pated, and the new director of the
Commons will need to be hired far
earlier than was forseen.

Overall, of the 18 appointed
administrative positions in the Uni-
versity, 10 are women, but most are
in associate or assistant positions.
If a woman is appointed to the
Deanship of Students or the Col-
lege, it would set a remarkable pre-
cedent in W&L history.

THIS HOLIDAY SEASON, GIVE THEM

JUST
COFFEE

I7
LEXINGTON

COFFEE

.‘/a’nu-.sIi1_Ig (w’un¢uq9v

EXCEPTIONAL COFFEES GROWN & PROCESSED
IN A SOCIALLY & ENVIRONMENTALLY JUST WAY
9 WEST WASHINGTON STREET ‘ LEXINGTON 0 464-6586

THE; RING-TUM PEI OPINIONSEDHOR
PINIONS 
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 2002 . PAGE 3

’I’r%ERiNO-'II,I.;i’I-II
STARE EDITORIAL
Let’s AstroTurf the Front Lawn

Besides branding W&L coast-to-coast as
apple-butter-loving bumpkins, ‘Good Morning
America’ did W&L the disservice of tearing
up our historic Front Lawn. This was a bless-

replace two acres of Kentucky Bluegrass and
Perennial Rye. It is also no small task, how-
ever, to water, mow and reseed said lawn ev-
ery eight hours.

During the recent ‘drought, for example,
who knows how many scholarship funds were
slashed and how many assistant Visiting pro-
fessors ﬁred because of the high costs of sur-
reptitious night-time watering. When you stroll
across the Front Lawn, be aware that you tread
on the buried dreams of dozens.

AstroTurf, in contrast, is not watered with
the school’s life blood. ’

The Phi particularly recommends AstroTurf
Series 12, “a finely tuned, highly engineered sur-
facing system which incorporates the Very best
of current sports turf technology,” according to
the AstroTurf homepage. Without a doubt,
AstroTurf’s unique diamond extruded nylon 6.6
ﬁber will offer a better shock absorbency, wet/
dry traction and naturally porous material than
grass does. After all, if grass (a plant) were so
great, not just anyone could have it on their front
lawn.

No, only a premier liberal arts college,
helmed by a young and charismatic new
president, could have the foresight to spend
money to save money.

There are reasons outside the fiduciary.
Take Freshman Dean Dawn Watkins, who lives
in the Hollow, the row of houses on the Front
Lawn’s far side.

“Lawnmowers make a lot of noise,”
Watkins sagely observed. No doubt both her
office and her home routinely fall prey to the
sonic bombardment emitted during these
machines’ destructive circuits.

Danger does not stop at the eardrums, how-
ever. Readers who have had the misfortune of

 catching a hand inside‘ a Sears Model 917 26-
‘' horse power garden-tractor know what we
mean. Yes, the moment your hand enters the
path of the twelve stamped-steel cutting
scythes, driven by a hydrostatic drive and 725cc
Kohler V-T‘win engine, it’s “goodbye, arm.” The
Model 917 will spit out something the color and
consistency of tapioca, while you fervently wish

l\rRANNAEEviDiLAE

Democrats not devastate

On November 5, millions of
voters went out in droves to pro-
fess their desire of leadership —
whether or not the Democratic
Party was the party of vision or
obstructionists that stand in the
way of the Bush Agenda. Demo-

nesota, Missouri, New Hamp-
shire, North Carolina and South
Dakota.

The voters clearly wanted
change in Washington as many
saw the GOP gain seats in the
House of Representatives and
regain control in the United
States Senate. Many Republi-
cans saw this midterm election
as a “mandate” from the Ameri-
can people that Washington
“needs new leadership and to
stop the partisan wrangling.” I
agree with the assertion that we
need to see bipartisan-
ship on many issues
but the Democratic
Party is by no means
in a “state of shock.”

First, Democrats
pulled even with the GOP in the
governors’ races with each party
holding twenty-five seats. One
of the most surprising races
came out of the state of Geor-
gia, where Republican Sonny
Perdue won the governor’s
race against popular incum-
bent Governor Roy Barnes
which most viewed as Gover-
nor Barnes’ race to lose. How-
ever, the Democrats gained
seats in more conservative
states such as Tennessee,
Kansas, Oklahoma, and Wyo-
ming while losing in traditional
Democratic states such as Mary-
land and Massachusetts.

We should keep this in mind
as the 2004 Presidential race is
concerned; the party that is in the
Governor’s Mansion during a
presidential year usually gets the
edge in very close elections.

Second, the field for pro-

PHOIO (DURIESYOF Ll'Ii"W’L.ilIT.E[)l 7

THEIR SAVIOR. Sen. John Kerry (D-MA) is one of the Democrats’ few hopes of
regaining the presidency in 2004, as well as stirnulatin party morale and fundraising.

spective presidential candidates
has gained some momentum. The

lash of criticisms against Bush
Administration’s policies while
pointing out that the economy has

flagged for almost two years as
well as warning Americans that the
ideological balance in the judiciary
may move to a conservative bend
from the district court level on up
to the United States Supreme Court
. Other prospectivecandidates in-
clude Senator John Edwards (NC),
Senator John Kerry (MA), Rep. Ri-

CENIER-LEEI
ANDRAE ANDERSON

The voters clearly wanted change in
Washington as many saw the GOP gain seats
in the House of Representatives and regaining
control in the United States Senate. Many
Republicans saw this midterm election as a
“mandate” from the American people that
Washington “needs new leadership and to stop
the partisan wrangling.”

<06 Al Gore.

chard ephardt (MO), and Sena-
tor Tom Daschle (SD). Should
President Bush’s approval rat-
ings go downward, these people
may have to make their claim to
the Democratic establishment as
to why they should represent the
Party.

Third, the Democrats scored
some major upsets in races across
the country. One surprise was in
the Arkansas Senate race
where Attorney General Mark
Pryor won against incumbent
Senator Tim Hutchinson by a
margin of 54% to 46%. Pryor is
the son of former U.S. Senator
David Pryor who served Arkan-
sas from 1979-1997. Another
shocker came from Maryland’s
Eighth Congressional District,
where State Senator Chris Van
Hollen defeated incumbent
Rep. Constance Morella by a
margin of 52% to 48%. The two
challengers both went to the cen-
ter to define themselves with the
voters. Both parties targeted both
races as critical in their quest to
capture control in either house.

Get ready everyone, the
Democrats may pull out the stops
come 2004.

leader of the
pack is former
Vice-President

Gore has
maintained a

BSA discriminate against atheists

19-year old DarreH Lambert is amember of a minority member of the organization, but the stubborn refusal to

 

W&L as good or better

than Harvard, er al.

Asoiirmuch-anticipatedThanksgivingBreakiollsaroi1rid
the corner, my mind is ﬁlled with visions of Starbucks, home
cooked food, and the prospect of being able to go into a

decent mall without having to make a 2-hour pilgrimage.

. . . . _ . highly Optimistic» Thanksgiving
ing in disguise. we must carpet the newly-bare “am We’? . _ . . .
1aWninAStmTuI_f about their chances in many bnngsfam1ly,ﬁrends MYNORTHFACE
. .' battleground states such as Ar— and the potenilalto ,
Admittedly, it would be no small task to kansas’ Colorado’ Georgia, Min_ run into those KAM COEN ()4

people in high

school you thought you’d never see again. For rrie, Thariks—
giving also entails a New-Eiigland- style high school football
game, on the morning of such a great holiday. Every year, my
town plays its big rival and people ﬁom both towns ﬂock to
this ﬁeezing social event.

Where I live, people don’t know too much about Wash-
ington andI.ee. Idon’tblarne themfortheirigrioiancelarnthe
only person from my high school ever to attend W&L. In fact,
I’m sure many students outside the realm of Texas, Georgia,
MarylandandVirginiahavetodealwiththisa1lthetime.Ionce
was asked why I chose to attend a community college. Dining
my senior year of high school, I often followed up where I was
attending college with the defensive sound bite, ‘It’s a good
school, really!’ Then you have the confused iriquirers, who
just simply confuse the school you go to with about ﬁve other
colleges with similar names. ‘You go to William and Mary?
Washington University? The University of Washington?
Washington and Jefferson?’

It’s hard for rrre not get somewhat annoyed when people
assume that since I don’t go to a school with an Ivy League
brand name or attend a well—kriown New England liberal arts
school, that I’m not getting as good of an education. My
smug classmates who attend Harvard, Princeton and the like
have made cracks about how easy I have it I disagree. I once
read in a college guidebook that at W&L the woridoad is like
the conﬂict with Iraq: never ending.

That quote has stuck with me throughout my three years
at W&L, because the amount of work that has been assigned
to me embodies that statement. Students at Washington and
Leeworkjustashard,ifnotharder,thanstudentsatmore
prestigious universities. The small classes we go to make it
exceptionally hard to skip class without a solid reason behind
it. I’ve never worked harder to get an A then I have at W&L,
since we boast some of the most demanding and intelligent
faculty members around

There aren’t any gut courses at this school where you
can just sit there and expect the As to roll in. Unlike other
schools of ‘higher caliber,’ the phrase ‘grade inﬂation’ is a
foreign concept here, since last year’s Honor Roll had about as
many students as there were people who actually had dates to
Chiistrnas Weekend

We may spend a good deal of our time mountain-board-
ing on the Colonnade and consuming vast amounts of apple
butter in the Co—op, but W&L students also stay up late in the

T C-SchoolperfectingtheirPowerPointpiesentations,whiletheir

friends sleep in the Science Center struggling to break the
average on their impossible Organic exam while their roorn—
mate watches the sun rise overI_ee Chapel memorizing histori-
cal dates of the Fianco—Piussian War.
Wehavetoworktwiceashardasthosewhoattendlvy

group of Americans that is regularly scorned, dismissed
as a fringe section of society, and generally not accepted.
As a result of his belonging to this group,
the Boy Scouts are about to expel him from
their ranks. You might think that he’s gay,
but he’s not. Nor is he an ethnic minority.
Darrell Lambert is an atheist.

He has been a scout since his earliest childhood, work-
ing his way from Tiger Cub to Cub Scout to Boy Scout,

abandon dogmas of the past is leaving the Scouts in a
sticky mess.

Leigueschoolstosliowfiitureernployersaridgiadschoolad-.
missioriscommitteeshowsrnartwearewithouttheaddedbeneﬁt‘
ofanarnebrandonourdiplomaW&Lmaynotbeninnberorieor1 .
anybody’s ridiculous lists of the best colleges, but I wouldn’t
waritto experience my undergraduate education anywhere else. .

So this Thanksgiving, when you go home to see your
family, friends, and anyone else who wants to know how you 3
are enjoying school, be sure to let them know just how thank-
ful you are for the education you are receiving at W&L.

that you had agreed on AstroTurf (which
doesn’t, we might point out, need cutting).

)1 To be sure, AstroTurf could cause abra-
sions on those who slipped on it, or tried to sun-
bathe on it, or fell on it during an Ultimate Frisbee
match. Athletics Director Mike Walsh, how-
ever, told the Phi that no one could be injured
merely by walking across it. ,

gm} Although the Boy Scouts do have some-

MODERATE S MUSINGS _ thing of a history for intolerance, as they also
_._h.gCALEYANDEP~%0N ‘06 1§.kp.hZTs°§°;‘i’§i.SI§” 21.3??? Eamliﬁiilifii‘ TE
ﬂagrant disregard of the ﬁrst amendment. While it is within the
Boy Scouts’ rights to exclude whomever it wishes, it is showing
more and more that it is neither a tolerant nor a well—managed

If for no other reason, do it for the chil-
dren.

Editors in chief Katie J. Howell
Matthew B. McDermott
Imran Naeemullah
Catherine Guy
Jeremy Franklin
Jeb Brooks

Caley Anderson
Megan Morgan
McQueen Calvert
Sharyn Regan
Dave Crowell

Erin Julius
Barrett Daws

Cody Gabbard
Tallie Jamison
Donny Banks

Jit Shrestha

Kyle Wass

Paul Seifert
Thomas Worthy

Opinions Editor
Arts & Life Editor
Sports Editor
Photo Editor

Asst. News Editors

Asst. Arts & Life Editors
Asst. Sports Editors
Photographers

Copy Editor

Production Assistants
Business Manager

Asst. Business Manager
Circulation Director Henry Grimball

Advertising Assistant McQueen CalVel't
The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the

I lieve in God, they gave him an

and recently received his certi-
fication as an Eagle Scout, the
elite of the Boy Scouts of
America. Yet when it came to the
attention of high ranking BSA
ofﬁcials that Lambert did not be-

ultimatum— profess belief in God
or leave the Boy Scouts.

The absolute ridiculous-
ness of this ruling is astound-
ing. Is Darrell, who has worked
hard his entire life to attain the
prestigious title of Eagle Scout,
inferior to a Boy Scout who joins
for two weeks and then quits
merely because he does not be-
lieve in a higher power? Is there
anyone who can sanely think
that any atheist is inferior to any
theist simply by their unbelief?
The Boy Scouts think so. In fact,
they’ve stated that they will wel-
come Lambert back into the
Scouts if he merely “professes
a belief in God.” Lambert, who

PHUIOCDL
RELIGIOUSLY INTOLERANT. The Boy Scouts,
their outdated requirement of faith, are in danger of
becoming outdated and irrelevant in this new era.

could have easily professed his way back into the Scouts

organization. Membership in the
Boy Scouts is rapidly declining, and
the organization may soon ﬁnd it-
selfin quite a ﬁx if it continues hold-
ingtoapolicy drawnupintlie 1800s
which dictates “No man is much
good if he does not believe in God.”

Atlieistic, agnostic, or other
sorts of unbelieving Boy Scouts
cause no disruption in troops
through their lack of religion Darrell
was previously praised by various
fellow scouts and scoutrnasters as
being “a young man with tremen-
dous positive energy,” a great leader
always ready to help others,” and
“someone I could always count
on.” Yet now the Scouting website
is mysteriously silent on the sub-
ject, though various other news
sources are abuzz with stories of this

    

. .. . . illogical exclusion.
mm’ W”L"‘”t‘{Jf§§{',‘§}‘§ The solution? The BSA must
accept the fact that religious diver-
sity includes the right not to prac-

tice religion. It’s that simple.
The Boy Scouts should try to bring themselves into the 215‘

Tradition trumps
ephemeral fads

This weekend, Washington and Lee students showed
that despite this year’s skewed calendar, they value tradition
above any sense of seasonality. Despite Thanksgiving’s be-
ing two weeks away,
we celebrated Christ-
mas Weekend with
our traditional gusto
and fervor, to the de-
light of nearly the entire campus. Trivial, perhaps, but I think it
points to something else: we at W&L value tradition.

While it would be ridiculous to suggest that this year’s
calendar reﬂects any social engineering at work (rnoie likely, it
has sorriething to do with getting us home in time for Christ-
mas), this does touch upon the broader issue of how irnpor—
tanttraditionistous. Forexarriple, Tailgating: farfrom eliminat-
ing the presence of drunk students at football games, banning
alcohol at Tailgate has merely shoved its usage underground

It seems that there is a certain “Law of W&L”at work,
which goes something like this: for every action taken by the
administration to undemiine tradition, the student body reacts

RIGHT—WlNG RESPONSE
IMRAN NAEEMULIAH ‘O5

undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee Univer-
sity, Lexington, Virginia. The Washington and Lee Publi-
cations Board elects the Editors in chief, but The Ring-
_ tum Phi is otherwise independent.
5 The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible submis-
sions and letters. All submissions must be e-mailed to
phi@wlu.edu or in the University Center mailbox by 5
p.m. Friday to appear in the following week’s edition. The
Ring-tum Phi reserves the right to edit subrriissions for con-
H tent and length. Letters and columns do not necessarily
reﬂect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Ad-
veitising does not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi
or its staff. This newspaper observes current court defini-
tions of libel and obscenity.
I The Ring-tum Phi
I Mailing Address: University Center
Washington and Lee University (
Lexington, Va. 24450
Street Address: 31 Washington Street
Lexington, Va. 24450 -  ~ - 

‘ Telephone: (540) 462-4060 "U15 I "3 ”’
Fax: (540) 462-4059 “[Expletive deleted]” “The essence of Washington “Diane Sawyer...NAKED !” “Introduced by N orthemers to “What the hell is mountain

Email". phi@WI"'edu and Lee.” make Southerners look stupid.” boarding?!”

http://phi.w1u.edu
AI/m.,,’,1 §l,b‘_.__,\.,.;(..iI,,_p Q?,,.,. Q35 —ROBR.lF Cl ARKF. ‘O6 . A vrv R AI".’\QT(‘\\U ‘()6 J‘ A'I‘uI:DY\l'F (‘Ann I FTT1 ‘()6

while still not actually believing, refused, saying that the
honor of a scout would not “allow [him] to lie.” The indi-
vidual clearly has clearly proven himself to be a worthy

Century. With their exclusionary policies, they currently reside
in the 19”‘, and if they continue on this road, they will soon ﬁnd
themselves a relic of the past.

by not only upholding it, but taking it further than ever before.
Love it or hate it, it certainly holds true.

  TN-KBACK: 

          

-MARY HOLLOWAY ‘O6 --Al17\.’.(‘A{i\Pp in-4

 

MONDAY. N0VEirBERl8. 2002 - 

 

      

Tibet exempliﬁes Chinese problems

RELIGIOUS FREEDOM. The Chinese have
a long way to go in this departrnent.

The ﬁfties were a bad decade for
Tibet. In 1951, Tibet “voluntarily”
signed the Seventeen Point Agree-
ment with China that forever joined
the two nations. In 1955, the PLA
moved in and started making the place
a whole lot more Chinese than it ever
was or wanted to be. By 1959, the Ti-
betans had decided that making nice
with an oppressive Communist regime
was a raw deal, and they rebelled. The
PLA, as it is wont to do, cracked down
and killed 10,000 Tibetans in Lhasa
alone. Across Tibet, monks and nuns
were murdered and temples were de-
stroyed. The Dalai Lama ﬂed to India,
never to return.

At the time of the crackdown,
more than 95% of Tibetans practiced
Buddhism. A province with so many
devout believers didn’t exactly jive
with the official atheism of the gov-
ernment, so the Communist govern-
ment set about disrupting Tibet’s re-
ligious life. The tombs of previous
Dalai Lamas were desecrated and
their bodies were dismembered and
scattered. Monks were forced to

break their holy vows or face execu-
tion. Golden statues and other sa-
cred objects were melted down and
shipped east.

Since then, the
situation hasn’t im- _
proved very much. In :
1988, in a presage of
the Tiananmen Massacre, there was
a student uprising in Lhasa. Hun-
dreds were killed in the carnage that
followed. Interestingly, the man
who, just this past week at the 16”‘
Party Congress, was anointed Jiang
Zemin’s successor as General See-
retary of the Communist Party, Hu
J intao, then- governor of the Tibetan
“Autonomous” Region, orches-
trated this slaughter of students.
Deng Xiaoping liked what he saw
and called Hu to Beijing after this
incident beginning China’s newest
dictator’s career in the big time.

In 1989, the Panchen Lama, sec-
ond only to the Dalai Lama in Bud-
dhist hierarchy, passed away. As is
their custom, the Buddhists sought
out the child in whom he had been
reincarnated and, in 1995, found a
six-year—old boy from eastern Tibet.
As is their custom, the Communists
appointed their own Panchen Lama
and imprisoned the real one and his
entire family, making him the young-
est political prisoner in the world.
At Yonghegong, a Buddhist mon-
astery maintained in Beijing so the
government can claim that China has
freedom of religion, one can see pic-
tures of the Communist Panchen
Lama being installed with a smiling
Jiang Zemin in the background.
Somehow, I doubt Siddhartha imag-
ined atheist dictators choosing the
leaders of his religion. To this day,
monasteries are forbidden to dis-
play pictures of the real Panchen
Lama, but instead, must put photos
of the Communist imposter in places
of honor. This is tantamount to a
government mandating that its

 

, LIVE FROM CHINA
 BRETT KiRwRN‘04

Christian population display all cru-
cifixes upside-down. Many Tibet-
ans expect a similar scandal when
the current Dalai
Lama passes on.

So, even a
brief trip to Tibet
will reveal that the
WTO’s newest member, the latest
country to be granted permanent
“Most Favored Nation” trading sta-
tus by the United States, the most
recent entrant into the community
of responsible nations is actually no
more responsible than Hannibal
Lecter at a morgue armed with bar-
becue sauce. The Communist Party
can’t seem to satisfy its appetite for
bloody butchery and abusive, op-
pressive laws.

Friday’s seamless appointment
of the next generation of leaders was
good for the Chinese Communist
Party, but bad for China. Past suc-
cessions had included purges and
fights for power among the party’s
top leaders. Now, the CCP has ma-
tured enough that it can perpetuate
its rule without such self-defeating,
messy politics.

China faces a bleak future for
exactly the same reason. Without in-
ternal strife, and with external com-
petition outlawed and brutally dis-
couraged, the CCP faces no imme-
diate challenges to its supreme au-
thority. Moreover, the newly-ap-
pointed leadership came of age dur-
ing the Cultural Revolution when
the universities were closed and the
nation was in the grip of a Maoist
psychosis. Hu Jintao and his lieu-
tenants may prove even more insu-
lar and backward than Jiang Zemin’s
generation. And, they have already
demonstrated their willingness to
use the army to crush dissent.

So, while the rest of the world
enters the 215‘ Century, as its record
in Tibet demonstrates, the CCP is
eager to keep China in the l960’s.

PAGE 4

Campus funding should follow free market model

Lately, there hasn’t been much dif-
ference in reading the student newspa-
pers at Washington and Lee and the na-
tional newspapers. At W&L people are all
asking for more 
money forsober
driverprograms
a n d
multicultural centers; even the City of Lex-
ington wants a new courthouse.

This seems eerily similarto the national
situation when we hear people asldng for
more money for education, roads, and na-
tional defense. The comrnon bond between
allthesethingsisthattheywouldfulﬁlla
needanddo somegoodforthecommunity,
butwea1lmustaskourselves,“Atwhatcost?”

It may be possible to have free sober
rides available with minimal wait, but that
might require a tripling of the current bud-
get for GASD. Wouldn’t it be better to
give every student the number for Franks
CabCompany (464-3198) orDumis’Taxi

    
 

> FREE Tnoucrns
_;li_Y:IVﬂEFﬂ.‘(l3_

Servioe(463—l056)andlettheprivaIemar-
ket take care of how many taxis are out
there and their cost? This is certainly a
better solution than the University try-
ing to meet the students’
demands at a cost of zero.
The City of Lexing-
ton handled the court-
house issue very irresponsibly. Ifthe state
law saysthatthecourthouse mustbeup
to a certain standard, they need keep the
courthouse up to that standard. They
have put their own selﬁsh goals of being
reelected above the welfare of the city by
calling for a referendum They took the
easywayoutratherthansteppingupto
theplate andtakingcareofwhatneeded
tobedone.Theircowardicewilllikelyend
up costing the taxpayers (i.e., you and
me) much more through frivolous law-
suits and increased bureaucracy, than
would have been necessary had they
done the right thing in the ﬁrst place.

The Executive Committee’s solution
to the perceived lack of funding for cam-
pus organizations is to raise the Student
Activity Fee to $200, an increase of ﬁf-
teen percent This certainly will make more
money available to organizations, but it
does nothing to change the fact that there
are problems in the way they currently
allocate funding. It is important that the
hearings are open so that people can see
why money is being spent.

More importantly the University
and the Executive Committee need to stop
the practice of the Deans’allocating
money to organizations that are perceived
as being under-funded. Let the market
take care of the short falls. If someone
really wants to be a part of an orgar1iza—
tion, they will find a way to pay the dues
of that organization. Just ask the three
quarters of the Washington and Lee stu-
dents who are members of a Greek Orga-
nizaiion.

Letters to the Editor-

Goshorn clariﬁes position on MLK petition

Dear Editor,

I would like the opportunity to clear up some misun-
derstandings published in Tran Kim’s most recent article
in the Phi. I was one of the two students mentioned who
declined to sign a petition recognizing Martin Luther King,
Jr. Day. However, unlike Kim’s account, my reasons for
doing so are not compatible with those she assigned me
in her article—in fact, she offered‘ her ear to me for all of
two seconds before engaging the gentleman seated across
from me in the D—Hall in a minor debate.

I had been offered a chance to sign this petition two
or three times before Kim approached the group I was
seated with at dinner. Each time I had been solicited, I had
thoroughly reviewed the entire content of the petition
(something which, I rrright add, was not offered to my
compliant dining partners) and took issue with the lan-
guage of the petition, and thus declined to attach my
signature. The language of the petition, if anyone else
bothered to read it, argued that Washington and Lee’s
failure to recognize Martin Luther King Day was not rep-
resentative of our status as a top-ﬂight liberal arts institu-
tion, nor with our supposed commitment to diversity.
There are innumerable worthy reasons to celebrate Mar-
tin Luther King Day. Kim even listed some in her article.
However, the petition’s argument focused on none of
these, but rather on diversity initiatives and U.S. News &
World Report standings.

As nice as it would be for Washington and Lee to
rise in college rankings, as long as recognition of holi-
days is prioritized over grade inﬂation, what do those
rankings mean anyway? Furthermore, if diversity and its
merits are represented by an official ceremony sanctioned
by the University, we in fact should begin celebrating the
lives of important ﬁgures from any and all viewpoints
present or potentially present on campus.

My point is not that we should have ceremonies for
all of these holidays, for anyone whose capacity doesn’t
quite agree with satire, but that if we are to accept that
college rankings and diversity initiatives justify the rec-
ognition of holidays, then it opens up the doors for this
university to be subverted into a mockery of its own some-
times-noble goals. Re-write the petition, and I will gladly
sign it. As it-stands, my name will remain absent, as I’d
rather not advertise my views with its particular brand of
persuasion.

Sincerely,
John Goshom ’05

KIM RESPONDS:

In writing this petition, we did not deem it necessary to
explicate the heroic eﬁorts of Dr King in a long list, believing
everyone to be aware of his actions. It is understood that the
holiday is to represent his life, his achievements, and his
legacy. It is called MLK day for a reason. We made references
to the efforts of other universities to recognize MLK day but
this does not imply that we only want to celebrate MLK day
to boost our rankings. To suggest this as our impetus shows
some negligence in not being able to interpret our primary
goals. Furthemiore there are many other celebrations that
deserve recognition as well because they aﬂect other groups
of students, but changes occur slowly, and they occur even
more slowly in a conservative environment such as W&L so
we must take things one at a time. But for now PRIDE is
working to recognize MLK day, and it is not merely because
we want to be the number one liberal arts school. Simply
adding one holiday would do little to aﬁect our placement.

McDermottbidsadieu

After five terms at The Ring-tum Phi’s helm, I
have been assumed into Editorial Valhalla, where,
alongside Joseph Pulitzer and William Randolph
Hearst, I gaze down

with benign concern EX CATHEDRA
on the frantic
scrambling of my l\’LiTll{EWMCDERiVlOlT‘04

successors. As of
this issue, I in full favor and confidence leave the
keys to the kingdom to Katherine Janiforth Howell.

The Pax McDermana began in mid-April 2001,
and has ended 44 issues later. Although halcyon,
those days were also hectic, in a controlled, masterful
sort of way. A few of the major improvements:

The Phi moved from one—and-a—quarter rooms in
the University Center’s attic to a five—room off-
campus complex, sextupling our working space and
giving us a modest private bath. The space was
further improved when I pried desks loose from The
Law News, picked out the demi—tasteful art in the
Reeves Center, and bought new computers with
hoarded, forgotten Pub Board funds.

The paper’s layout changed from Railroad Gothic
to a lighter, more modern look.

Our press-color front-page, the first ever, testifies
to the vitality of our advertising and new subscription
programs.

Our photographs have never been better, and we
are no longer afraid to print large pictures.
Meanwhile, the ongoing Phi Digital Archive Project
preserves important moments from the last 50 years.

Lastly, a visit to Special Collections will convince
you that the quality of news and sports writing has
not been seen for decades.

Without a doubt, this year completed the Phi’s
reestablishment as the predominate campus
publication. We have at last exorcised the specter of
the early 90s, those days when our excesses and
deficencies led (hard as it is now to credit) the
campus’s better writers to create and to work for an
alternative paper. No more. Ancient wrongs have
been made right, the upstart trodden under, and the
Phi reclaims its seat at the head of the Pub Board
table.

Our successes, however, have encouraged my
resignation. I always have preferred the bad times:
when the computers crashed, or a law suit threatened,
or a rotten staff member quit.

These times are mostly behind us. Things run as
smoothly as they ever do on a paper. We have
rationalized the thousands of acts that collectively
create the week’s Phi. There is now less to construct
and more to maintain.

Because I have done what I could for the Phi, it
would be churlish of me to hold on to power for another
year and a half. It’s time for those waiting on the wings
to make their contributions.

My last week as editor in chief has seen the
admission of seven talented new additions. I have no
doubt that they, who will have only the most tangental
knowledge of my editorship, will carry on suitably.

It is impossible to sum up the many memories of
crises, talented co—workers, untalented co—workers,
triumph, achievement and companionship. As I sink
into the comfortable obscurity of contributing editors,
I have no doubt that there are still more memories to
make.

Plan Commons events

As the John W. Elrod University Commons takes
shape, many have wondered how it will inﬂuence campus
life. Will there be a decreased emphasis on Greek life? Will
it bring students together? There are plenty of questions
to ask, but we can be assured that the Commons will be

 
 

nothing more than

another large, CoMMoN SENSE
brick facility 0 er-

looking worms ONATHAN WORTHAM ‘O4
Creek if we do not

have innovative ideas for its use after opening next fall.

Although a proud member of my fraternity, I do think
that the University does need more carnpus—wide activi-
ties. And, undoubtedly, some of these would come at the
expense of Greek—system parties. Carnpus-wide activities
promote campus involvement, which leads to higher re-
tention rates, increased student morale, and a closer com-
munity. All of these were probably reasons we chose a
small campus. Sometimes our fragmented, somewhat elit-
ist social scene causes us to miss some of the perceived
advantages of a small campus, which carnpus—wide events
would help enhance. Clearly, the Commons should be a
place for everyone to enjoy, and those who plan for its use
should deﬁnitely not overlook interesting university-wide
programming.

Programming in the Commons must also be attractive
and innovative. Students should want to come to events
and Greek members should want to forgo parties to come.
This is often not the case with our current array of campus
programming events. Some research should go into ﬁnd-
ing out exactly what students enjoy, and some efforts
should be made to pursue programming ideas that reﬂect
these themes. A committee should be formed (if it hasn’t
already) to look at ideas for Commons activities and make
recommendations to existing organizations for potential
programs. Hopefully, this plan will lead to more organiza-
tional collaboration and higher attendance at organiza-
tional functions. Even if we don’t have more campus—wide
activities, increased organizational participation will bring
our campus community closer together.

. . . Cur-
Sometimes our fragmented, somewhat elitist remly’ S0_
social scene causes us to miss some of the cial life is

perceived advantages of a small campus, which C entered

. in the fra-
cainpus-wide events would help enhance. t C I n i t y
Clearly, the Commons should beaplace for 11011 S6 5-
eve one to me and those who lan for its While I
ry l _y’  . agree that
use should definitely not overlook interesting the frater-
uni ri -wid r arninin. “M65 are

V6 8 ty ep Ogt g valuable

and nec-

essary institutions, I think that everyone would beneﬁt
from some Commons activities. We should plan now for
the opening of this wonderful facility so that students will
not simply walk through on their way to the parking ga-
rage. We have an opportunity to have interesting events
in a spectacular new facility. We should plan now so that
we can enjoy the fruits of campus involvement later.

Democrats save face

I VV1th the November 5”‘ election over and done with, we
Democrats, admittedly, have a bit of face to save. There are
multiple reasons and excuses that can be cited for the election’s
outcome (for those of you who do not pick up a paper or watch
anything but E! or ESPN, the Republicans now control both the
House and Senate, and still the Presidency).

The biggest problem was that the Democratic Party had no
real identity following the wake of the 2()00 Presidential election.
\V1th the party siding with President Bush on so many issues
following 9/1 1, it was difﬁcult for the crucial swing voters in the
middle to see any reason why they should not vote Republican.
“What, you support the President, too? Well, then I’ll just vote
for the people on his team.”

Plus, Tom Daschle has done plenty since the election to leave
abittertasteinthemouthsofeventhemostLeftofDemocrats.

 

Seriously, just ask me. 4_~ _€__
H53 like ‘hat guy that LEFT OF CENTER
candarnpenyournight _ ‘ ‘
atthernoviesseeingthe ; NICR Ri.\isEY 03
newest Harry Potter

bycomplaining aboutwhatthemovie1eftoutfromthebookThe
moviewasneadythreehours.Whatrnorecouldyoucraminthere?

Thus, it was a breath of ﬁesh air to see the Democrats
wisely name Rep. Nancy Pelosi of San Francisco as their leader
in the House. The fact that Pelosi is the first woman chosen to
lead either political party in either chamber of Congress is a
triumph itself. But there is much more to Pelosi than the fact that
her gender will be good PR for female voters.

Just one trip to Pelosi’s website and one can see that issues
important to her include AIDS Awareness, Women’s Issues, and
Human Rights in coimtries like China. Pelosi’s record of serving as
San Francisco’s Representative since 1987 also illustrate her pas-
sion for issues like education, the environment, and healthcare.

But this was not the only smart move by the Democrats in
the wake of the election. Rep. Robert Menendez of New Jersey
defeated his opponent Rep. Rosa L. Delaro of Connecticut to
become the highest-ranking Hispanic in Congress. Furthermore,
Rep. James Clyburn (SC) was elected his second in command,
makinghimthehighest—1ankingAfrican—AmericaninCongress.

These three ofﬁcials are not only very different from
one another in their backgrounds but also represent voters
from three very distinct geographical regions of this vast
country. However, this is more than just a way for Democrats
to appear that the members of their party better represent a
population that is becoming more diverse all the time. It is a
way for the party to appoint some of their best politicians
who have the overwhelming support of their constituents to
prove that the Democrats are the party that better represent
America’s diverse population. It is much more than a PR
stunt. It is a statement of fact. Democrats have ﬁnally realized
this is the time to put on their best face. A face that has many
colors and represents this country as a whole.

Here on the campus of W&L, it is easy to forget this
point. There are even still a number of students that frown
upon this campus embracing students that do not ﬁt the
“status quo.” Really, what the hell is the status quo any-
more? Why would anyone choose to think with such tunnel
vision? Those who do should really consider poking out
their mirrd’s eye.

» Teach carefully. We can .-

 Cali 8,77-ACT—WlSE or visit W

 

CATHERINE C. GLY
., Yilfiﬁ. RljN<7;~Tl,“Ml)l- AR,,&L,.EEm
R I '8 IF‘ 3 g fwgi EAIA1EGuI‘@wIr.EI)L'
PAGE 6 ’ _ _J MONDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 2002
1
V
‘.
W .
JEB BROOKS / T/JeRin(g—/1///1P/if
FIRESIDE CHAT: Charlie Gibson and Diane Sawyer escape the
dreary weather by talking inside of Lee Chapel.
'1
W
‘W

          

T}2eR1r1g-I1/In PM

W A BIRD’s EYE VIEW: As seen from above, spectators gather around to watch
the actions of the mountain boarders on the front lawn.

_lEB R()()l\.\

Y
4
V
1.

_lEB Bl{t)()K.\‘ / T/J? R[1/g-t///2/ [W

J53 BR00 / WK/’Q€”/"”P’”' UP, UP, AND AWAY! A visiting mountain boarder takes ﬂight in front of \X/&L’s Tucker Hall.

V, SMILE FOR THE CAMERA! Charlie Gibson and Diane Sawyer Good Morning America introduced this new sport to countless viewers across the nation as well

 

address the nation, while the camera crew focuses in on them. as to the Washington and Lee University community.

jl~.'B Bxoos‘ / T/JeR1'21(g-ft/II1 P/ii
OUT OF MANY, ONE: Tony Perkins, a member of the Good
Morning America crew stands before a crowd of spectators

and the colonnade.

 

 

BY SAM LAGRONE
\'.\[I DESK

Soggy and cold — outside a bowl of day-old Lucky
Charms— are not two parts of a good morning in
America.

Now, one would think that the stoic spirit
pervasive here at VMI would frown on me for
complaining about the massive invasion of ABC’s
Good Morning America of our sleepy rural Virginia
hamlet of Lexington.

But I can safely say that a good number of the
Corps were, as a grizzled mountain—man would say,
“right ornery,” to be lined up for the cameras at 6:45
a.m. Cadet pupils were getting adjusted to the morning
when they were violently turned into pin-pricks by
lights that would have been better
suited for stupefying deer.

I can only assume any other
student body would be ecstatic to
have their campus graced by the likes
of Charlie Gibson, Diane Sawyer or
that weather guy that’s down with
all the old people.

According to the spotty polling
I conducted, most of us could care
less.

You have to take a step back
and admire the purity of the
cynicism.

Now if we cadets had been
given a choice between sleeping an extra 15-minutes
and being parading around on national television odds
are that we’d pick sleep (Maybe the freshmen would
pick TV, but they don’t know any better.)

But what we lose in sleep we more than make up
for with righteous indignation. Oh, if only the
microphones were placed in the formations... All the
bitterness, all the grumpy faces and oh so many
swears. I personally find it rather uproariously funny
that Diane and Charlie were scant feet from such
cursing that would make a longshoreman wink
approvingly under his eye patch.

Huddling under an umbrella Charlie and Diane stood
in the middle of the formation while the bagpipe band
marched the corps to breakfast. I forget the song but it
was close to a chorus of dying cats. Diane, bless her
heart, was appeared to be blissfully unaware of where
she was and what she was doing as she kept talking

I (IAN ONLY ASSUME ANY
OTHER STUDENT BODY
WOULD BE ECSTATIC To
HAVE THEIR CAMPUS GRACED
BY THE LIKES OF CHARLIE
GIBsoN, DIANE S.-\\x/YER OR
THAT WEATHER GUY THAT’s
ooxw WITH ALL THE OLD
PEOPLE

about some scary cave that she went to earlier that
week.

Charlie: These cadets are really something.

Diane: Brrrr. Dark...cold...ropes...orangejumpsuit...hat
with a light on it.

They seemed impressed with the school, with the
mettle of the cadets, but for some reason the most dazzling
feature of their visit was our hats.

If you haven’t seen them, cadets wear hats that
look like we bought them in bulk from a bus-driver
supply store, and since our figure—flattering uniforms
don’t have pockets, all our stuff gets shoved in the
lining.

When touring the dining hall, Charlie took an
interest in the hats that we all wear. This development
threw a wrench into VMI’s and ABC’s well—oiled

media plans. Cadets have a
tendency to tape off-color

pictures or subversive
declarations like, “VMI SUCKS,”
up there.

One of the quick-thinking
VMI officers, in an attempt to
save face, made a mad dash to a
big pile of hats that were about to
be filmed and dumped out the
contents to weed out all of the
potentially huminliating bad
apples. In the process, countless
pairs of black gloves, along with
pencils and pens were cast hither
and yon, and tragically lost to the sticky floor.

Eventually, they found some hats that had been
sanitized and appropriately G—rated and showed them off
for the camera.

Diane informed us that if she had the opportunity to
keep stuff in her hat, she’d stash some Diet Coke up
there.

So, as you can see, the clear moral of this story is
apparently as follows: Is anyone gonna ask me to a
party?

Send all of your invites and questions to
lagronesr@mail.vmi.edu

This column is dedicated to my good friend Mr. W.
Thomas “Jaunty” Johnson, without whom this week’s
installment could not be possible. And also to all of
those countless pairs of gloves that are now missing in
action somewhere behind the juice machine. May you
rest in peace. ‘

What I think: commentary from a bitter independent

BY S’11»\x1 .1-‘A’ Toouc
ST.\l-l~ WRl’l‘I9IlI

After three and a half years as a
student at this so—called fine
institution of higher learning, 1 have
decided that the time has come for
me to share my experiences with
you. I am a proud member of the
Gamma Delta Iotas, or the “Gosh
Darn” Indepents, for those of you
not quite up to my own intellectual
level. As I look back upon these
wasted years, a few particular items
stand out in my mind. Here are some
of my musings, crafted for your
reading pleasure.

Campus Living: Do you have
any idea what it is like to live down
in the oh—so—luxurious Woods
Creek Apartments for three years?
I can never find anybody who
actually wants to live with me, so I
keep getting put in the rooms with
RA’s.

The apartments smell, the carpets
are moldy, and they give you your
years supply of toilet paper all at one
time. I don’t need to consult calendars
or make notches on the wall like
prisoners do, through careful
observation and measurement I just
figured out that I go through 4.35 rolls
per week. Except when D-Hall serves
Mexican food—that throws my whole
system off.

The climate in Woods Creeek is
completely different from that of the
rest of campus. It is colder and
damper each and every day. There
are strange woodland creatures with
which you have to contend
whenever you want to venture to
class, the library, or the Troubador.
Worst of all, my neighbors are all
sophomore sorority’ girls, who throw
raucous parties on random week
nights, and who, not surprisingly,
look at me as if I were something
about as appetizing as month—old
pond scum.

The only cool place they did
have for us the independent
population, the Delt House, got shut
down because some of those Four-
Square tournaments they had were a

BRY \,\’ E.AR1,\' / Tbs Ring-////)1 P/ii
Embittered W&L senior Stanley Toole

bit too out-of—control. So Woods
Creek it is.

New Advances in Personal
Hygiene: Since admissions gave me
a full—scholarship to attend W&L
instead of my dream institution, MIT,
to raise the school’s US News Ranking
and to detract from the number of
potential Greek affiliates, I have
plenty of money to try all the new
products “guaranteed” to get the
ladies.

What has it ever gotten me?
Nothing. In fact, now [have to shake
out my night—gown every night
before I go to bed because the
cockroaches that inhabit my cozy
Woods Creek abode are potently
attracted to the scent of my new AXE
body deodorant. In the commercial
attractive ladies jump you in
elevators, but in reality bugs just try
to lay eggs the arm-pits of your
clothing.

Dating: The prissy girls at this
school won’t talk to me and the townie
girl cashiers set my change down on
the counter so they won’t have to
touch me.

Thank God for Everquest. Right
now I’m seeing this charming
character that I hope is a girl. Her
name, at least in the game, is
SkaOrcKiller69. I ﬁrst met her wl1ile
I was busily attacking the
dangerous and powerful level 9

    

wildebeests outside of the Gnome
Imperial Embassy in the small,
troubled nation of Qakurkistan. An
evil wildebeest wizard had cast his
dastardly “Rain of Cud” spell on her
and she was about to die. Luckily
for her (and for me, for that matter),
I dashed in to rescue her like a knight
atop a white steed. Her Everquest
character is totally hot, too——on the
binary scale,*she is most definitely
a 1.

Fraternities: Frat guys think
that they are all so cool and tough
with their loud parties, binge—drinking,
unkempt hair, and bizarre accents.
Yeah, well we have a name for those
people back in Minnesota—
Wisconsinites.

I went to a few frat parties when I
first matriculated here, but I kept
getting ushered to the couches in the
comer with the people who couldn’t
speak English.

Fraternity men’s GPAs are just
barely scraping the bucket, but
they get to live in mansions and
eat special food made for them,
while I have a 4.29 (damn
Bibliographical Resources) and am
forced to live with some guy who
calls himself the “Goose—Daddy,”
while getting indigestion from the
D—Hall’s fiesta surprise casserole!

Christmas Weekend: Only at
a place like Washington and Lee,
where tradition runs so deep that
there’s a two—inch tread dip through
the side columns in front of the
Graham—Lees corridor, would the
entire Greek system put on the
charade of a Christmas-themed
party weekend in the middle of

. November. The only thing “white”

about this Christmas here in
Lexington is the powder—mustaches
sported by the narco—philes and
rush at a few fraternities.

Disclaimer: This article does
in no way represent the views of
the Ring-tum Phi staff as an
entirety. It is a fictional piece,
created by junior Bryan Early, who
is, in actuality, a resident of the
previously maligned state of
Wisconsin and is not an
independent.

 

PAGE 6

M%

MERRY CHRISTMAS, LOVE BETA

Irs CHRISTMAS TIME IN THE CITY: Beta Theta Pi shines with the Christmas spirit
this week.‘ Each of W&L’s ﬁfteen fraternities decorated their houses this weekend
in celebration of the long-standing tradition of Christmas Weekend. Due to
restrictions set by the calendar, there are no available weekends after
break, thus pushing the holiday festivities up to the weekend of November 15-
16. As in previous years, the weekend consisted of cocktail parties, band
performances, and general holiday fun. Although this year’s events occurred

&hm#4«w

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 2002

Com‘ G.\BBARD/ The Ring!/wt P/21'

significantly earlier than in the past, the inventive use of Christinas lights
and decorations was as creative and eyecatching as ever. Much like years past,
both Red Square and Davidson Park have been transformed into jungle of
electical light and plastic Santas. Each fraternity does something a little bit
different to decorate its house. Despite all chronological difficulties,
Christmas Weekend is a Washington and Lee tradition that has remained
strong and will continue to so for many years to come.

Coal towns are wild, wonderful

BY JEI3 BROOKS
PHOTO EDIIOR

Coal keeps the lights on.
Without it we would be in the
dark and very cold. The story of
West Virginia and Eastern Ken-
tucky is not limited to the pro-
duction of coal. This area is,
without a doubt, worth a visit,
and you should certainly make
the trek, if you have the oppor-
tunity.

Here in Lexington, we are
only on the cusp of Appala-
chian culture; it becomes much
thicker and more exciting as
you travel further to the west.
Before a trip, it is important to
have a grasp on the character
of the population. They are a
unique group with many inter-
esting perspectives and stories
to share.

Before the l960’s, hundreds
of thousands of men and women
were living in the many towns of
southern West Virginia and east-
ern Kentucky. Many of these resi-
dents were working in the mines,
while the remainder relied upon
that industry in one way or an-
other.

All of a sudden, because of
many factors including the ad-
vent of the union culture in the
region, the jobs disappeared.
Those who were able to left the
area. But many could not go.
The 1,000 residents of War, WV
are still there for several rea-
sons. Located in the extreme
south of West Virginia, War is
the state’s southern most city
and is located in McDowell
County.

Most can simply not afford
to leave. Because there are no
jobs, about 40% of the population
of the free state of McDowell (a
holdover from the county’s neu-

trality during the Civil War) do not
work and receive monthly checks
from the government. 80.1% of
the population own their own
homes; this is nearly 20% higher
than the national average. The
ﬁgure is high because nearly all
of the houses are substandard.
Once a family moves into a house,
they are unable to afford its up-
keep.

The second reason that
people stay in the area is because
their families are there. Some
people even come back to the
area to take care of family mem-
bers.

It is more likely, however, that
residents who remain in counties
like McDowell are there because
their family has existed in the re-
gion for generations. This is an
extremely strong reason for
people to remain; they feel a
strong identiﬁcation with the re-
gion. Many experience a strong
attachment to the area.

Despite the negative im-
ages of the “hillbilly,” some
West Virginians are proud of the
uniqueness their Appalachian
heritage provides. From moun-
tain music to mountain board-
ing and apple butter churning,
the unique culture of Appala-
chia is reason enough to stay.
Most residents can’t leave.
Many want to seek new oppor-
tunities but can’t.

I sincerely suggest that you
visit the area and speak to resi-
dents. To my West Virginia
friends, I salute you. Thanks
for sharing your culture with
us; it is truly unique, intriguing
and exciting. There is no rea-
son for the rest of us to mock
West Virginia; a visit to the area
will prove that there is so much
more to it than simply

“rednecks.”

The Phi wishes the W&L
community a happy and safe
holiday season. See y’all in

January!

 

Write for

Americas #1 Student Tour
Operator

Information/Reservations
1-800-648-4849 or
www.ststravel.com

Spring Break 2003 with STS

Sell Trips earn cash Travel Free

the Ring-
tum Phi!

CDCID

phi@wlu.edu

Reflections

Howison reflects on top athletes of recent years

   

BY DAVID HOWISON
DEAN OF 5'Il'Dl3N’IS

Last week I offered my most
memorable athletic moments at
W&L. Here are the most memorable
athletes from the past thirteen years.

Josephine Schaeffer ’96 ~ Cross
Country/Track. A tiny wisp of a girl
with the heart of a lion. Unbeatable.
Mikel Parker ’99 — Soccer. The best
and classiest soccer player of them all.

Ansley Miller ’00 -
Basketball/Lacrosse. Although
basketball was her primary sport,
Ansley dominated a lacrosse
game just by her presence.

Christian Batcheller ’00 —
Football/Baseball. The best all-around
athlete. Quarterback and ODAC triple
crown winner. Ashoulder injury ended
his baseball dreams.

Pope Hackney ’0l — Lacrosse.
An exceptional talent with
surpassing leadership skills.
Universally respected by teammates

 

\ .-\RlYH(E(I1\l
and opponents.

Jessica Mentz ’02 — Basketball.
W&L’s all-time leader in points and
rebounds. Tough and tenacious. A
joy to watch.

Jenny Thomas ’03 — Soccer. Her
somersault flip-throw is unlike
anything ever seen at W&L.

It’s probably not a good idea for
me, as Dean of Students, to pick a
“favorite” athlete but, what the heck,
I’m retiring this year so here goes.

Chris Sullivan ’03 — Footballl
Track. It’s not merely Chris’
extraordinary record—reaking career
that puts him at the top of my list
of achievers. lt’s the fact that he’s
a “little guy,” just like me,
measuring in at about 5’8”or 5’9”.
OK, I’ll admit it. He has about forty
extra pounds of solid muscle, can
bench press 350 pounds, run the
40 in 4.3 and long jump 22 feet.
Even so, when I watch him take off
on one of his breakaway runs, I
think, “Hey, I could do that.”

Live exam week to the fullest

At W&L, we work hard and we
play hard. Every week, we find
ourselves in a repeating cycle of ﬁve
nights of work and two nights of fun.
Our expectations are simple — during
the week, we do all those things that
our parents think we are here for, and
after the week ends, we do all those
things that we think we are here for.
And it’s a good life.

But there is one week out of every
tenn that breaks this cycle. It is the
one week when all W&L
students close
themselves in their
rooms, or in their Carrels,
or in a Leybum ﬁshbowl,
and try to make up for every hour
they’ve spent procrastinating over the
previous twelve weeks. For some
students, it is pure hell. It is the last
hurrah — a ﬁnal academic battle before
we go home and prepare for the next
term of fun. Of course, I am talking
about Exam Week.

Tragically, most students are
stuck into thinking that Exam Week
exists only to bring stress, tears, and
sleepless nights. These students are
dumb. Surely, we all want to succeed
on our ﬁnals. But Exam Week should
not just be about ﬁnals. Despite the
tests and the studying, Exam Week has
the potential to be the greatest week
of the term for every student in
Lexington.

Think of it — there is no other week
in the term when you have so much
freedom to manage your own time.
There are no classes, and you can
schedule your own ﬁnal times. And
even then, after you’ve scheduled
your tests, you can punt. Certainly,
the exam punt is the greatest finals
week tradition. We’ve all done it once.
The punt represents the highest level
of academic freedom. For any reason
— maybe you didn’t study enough, or
your car broke down, or you drank too
much at the Palms the previous night,
or you wanted to throw Frisbee in the
Quad — you can simply skip your test
and take it some other time. During
Exam Week, there are simply no
commitments. When you are not
actually taking a test, you can do
whatever you want.

So why would anyone want to _

waste this freedom by studying all the

. ABSOLUTE FEIILORO
TIM SMITH ‘04

time? Do something fun! Try studying
during the day and partying at night —
then you can wake up with plenty of
time left to take an afternoon test. Maybe
you could go on a road trip for two days,
and then return to take your tests in the
second half of the week. Or perhaps,
with all your freedom from daily
commitments, you can become a night-
person. . .this is the joy that I discovered
during one Exam Week last year. For no
reason, one night I decided to not go to
sleep until 6AM.
Then for the rest of
the week, I started
every day at 3PM
and ended every
day at 5AM. Every student should try
this — you can work alone in the computer
labs, you can watch late night TV, and
you can meet the wonderful W&L
Buildings and Grounds staffers that you
never see during the day. Exam Week
allows us to see aspects of W&L life
that most students never experience.
The possibilities are endless.

Then, of course, you always find
those students who ‘shotgun’ their
finals and hurry out of town as soon as
they can. What’s the point behind this?
What does home have that Lexington
can’t offer? A much better plan for
these students is to ﬁnish their finals
and to let the parties begin. In this way,
Exam Week once again allows an
opportunity for unequaled fun — there
is no better feeling than having a night
of fun and debauchery after finals are
done. Before rushing home, why not
celebrate the end of the term with your
friends?

I am not downplaying academics
at all. Obviously, we are all here to
succeed as students. But in a school
known for its amazing parties and
fabled Greek system, I find it disturbing
that we let the fun slip away for
something as inconsequential as a final
exam. If anything, Exam Week should
be the greatest week of every term. It
should be something we look forward
to as one final celebration of the term,
our tests, our friends, and our lives in
Lexington. Don’t let your term end on
an anticlimactic note. Go home
knowing that you’ve ended the
semester well. So for this upcoming
Exam Week, study hard, do well, and
save the best for last. i

# 1 Spring Break Vacations!

Cancun, Jamaica, Acapulco, Bahamas,
Mazatlan, Florida, SPadre. 110% Best Prices!
Book Now & get Free Parties & Meals!
Group Discounts. Now hiring Campus Reps!
1-800-234-7007
endlesssummertourscom

Fraternities . 30I'0I'iIiﬂS
CIIIIIS . SIIIIIGIII Iil'0llI|S

Earn $1,000-$2,000 this semester with a proven CampusFundraiser
3 hour fundraising event. Our programs make fundraising easy
with no risks. Fundraising dates are filling quickly, so get with the
program! It works. Contact CampusFundraiser at (888) 923-3238,
or visit wwwcampusfundraisercom

msetaeo or HT  “SUV;  DARWIN.  

'5 rtmg‘ at $ -.15, I55. Mao's! ﬁtrnmr

Seats fire, has 53 cubic

feet of cargo space. and

is available with 183 hp
and a 6-speed manual
shift. Evan evolution

can’! fully explain it.

Etlilll ll}-‘.I'CIl.in #3709:  L145 9!», IE3},  LE7!
DU  P58 Tirtﬁ-E ‘K150  {CHE ‘§‘U%J. "MSW F32-LLEES
l3't§%.faE5l'% FR1)§’5§il’¢'.} ti. iltttiﬁbitﬁ FE. E¢§}U.EElE’f$ Tait
      

 

K

]EREi\/IYFRANICLIAI
SPORTSEDHOR

EMAII; PlLil\II\lll\1]@\3tIlJlEDU

nth Rli\?{'3~”i‘t1lt~i PE:

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 2002

PORTS-

PAGE 7

W&L falls to UT-Dallas in NCAA 2nd round

Footbal

It

CAREER ACHIEVEMENT. Senior tailback Chris Sullivan received the Falcon Award,
named for former W&L coach Gary Fallon, at halftime of the Generals’ Nov. 9
game. Against Greensboro, Sullivan rushed for 96 yards and the game’s lone TD.

‘. FROM STAFF REPORTS

GREENSBORO, N .C. —-Wash-
ington and Lee ﬁnished the 2002 foot-
ball season at 5-5 with a 6-0 win over

It Greensboro College at a rain-soaked

J arnieson Stadium on Saturday.
Senior Chris Sullivan’s touch-
down with nine seconds left in the
first half was all the offense the Gen-
erals would need against the Pride.
Sullivan rushed 29 times for 96
yards, giving him 1,123 yards for the
season. He also set a new W&L

5/ record for career rushing yards with

it

3,140, breaking the mark of former
teammate Marc Watson, who gradu-
ated a year ago with 3,112 yards.
Greensboro managed just 151
yards of total offense and turned the
ball over three times as the Gener-
als’ defense recorded their first shut-
out since beating Catholic 34-0 in

3 1993.

' Junior linebacker Ben Krasnoff
amassed 16 tackles to lead W&L,
while senior linebacker Matt Stavish

‘and freshman cornerback Joe

Swimmers top Hollins

reaches.500
~ with win over Geenboro

  

FlIEI‘HO'lO

Greenhill each intercepted a Greens-
boro pass.

W&L competes at regionals

FREDERICKSBURG —— The
Washington and Lee cross country
squads traveled to Mary Washing-
ton College on Saturday to compete
in the NCAA Division III South/
Southeast Regional.

The Generals ﬁnished ﬁfth of
23 teams in the men’s race, while the
women’s team placed seventh in a
ﬁeld of 27 squads.

Sophomore Wes Bell placed

ninth with a time of 26: 16.09 to pace
W&L, while junior Andy Schorr ﬁn-
ished close behind at 26:20.05, good
enough for 12th place.

Sophomore Stephen Chambers
ran the course in a time of 26:43.02
and ﬁnished 25th overall.

Senior Burke Duncan led the
W&L women by running the race in
23:28.01 to ﬁnish 16th.

All four runners were named to
the All-Region squad for placing in
the top 25.

V
trolled possession of the ball, lirriiting
   the Pride to just three shots on the
In 1st-ever tournament afternoon-
» ;; ‘‘It’s good that we controlled the
game, then fall to Comets midfield with the condition of the
BY JEREMY FRANKLIN ﬁeld,” Marcoux said. “They like to get
the ball and take it down the ﬂanks,
SPORTS EDITOR and the fact that our midﬁeld could
‘Y The Washington and Lee control it helped us out a lot.”
women’s soccer team concluded the Cunningham was also pleased
best season in school history with an with the performance of his defense,
NCAA Division III Tournament win as sophomore goalie Emily Barker was
i and an appearance in the regional forced to make- just one save in al-
semifmals. most 88 minutes of play.
The Generals, seeded second in “We played great at the back,”
the NCAA South Region, ended the Cunningham said. “We had one spurt
2002 season at 17-2-3 witha 1-0 loss at the end of the first half where
it to No. 3 University of Texas-Dallas at (Greensboro) played real well, but our
the Comets’ home ﬁeld on Saturday. defense controlled the rest of the
W&L began its first-ever playoff game.”
appearance with a 2-0 win over f1fth- The Generals took nine shots
seeded Greensboro College, the Dixie against Pride goalkeeper Adrienne
T Conference champions, at the Liberty Buttino, who recorded four saves, and
Hall Fields on Wednesday. finally secured some breathing room
Both teams struggled early with with justover nine minutes remaining. B.nu<Q.,T 1),“./T,,,R,-WM] M
a muddy ﬁeld’ but "u_mor Fontame seiner mldﬁelder Jenny Thomas NCAA WIN. (Above) junior Fontaine Marcoux moves the ball upﬁeld in W&L’s
y Marcoux scored 9:45 into the game tookaﬂip throw-in from about 25 yards 2_0 . G b . Ch ﬁr tr d f th NCAA Di . . HIT mt
off an assist from sophomore Maggie out and sent it right in front of Buttino Wm Over teens CFO In C S , Gun (,) C , wslon Oilmame
Hope. and the Greensboro net. Junior Heather on Wednesday at the Liberty Hall Fields. (Right) Seniorjenny Thomas ﬂip-throws
“The ﬁrs‘ goal was crucial’ eSpe_ Coleman’ who had entered the game the ball in. Marcoux scored the first goal, while Thomas assisted on the second.
cially to get one early,” W&L coach just four seconds prior to the throw, as the Comets’ Kristin Andrews scored cured its first Old Dominion Athletic
‘ Neil Cunningham said. “The longer headed it home fora2-0 lead. off a cross from Stephanie Scarfone Conference championship by defeat-
the game goes, you expect to win be— “It was really important for us to with 9:30 to play in regulation. ing three-time defending champion
cause you’re at home and you’re the get an early goal,” Marcoux said, “but Texas-Dallas outshot W&L 12-6 Lynchburg on Nov. 9.
higher—seeded team.” we really needed to get that second on the match, and Barker recorded six “I can’teven explain it,”Marcoux
4, Neither squad was able to create one just to put them away.” saves in net for the visitors. said after the Generals’ win over
a lot of good scoring chances during W&L couldn’t continue its run in The Generals’ 17 wins were the Greensboro. “We’ve never made it
the contest, but the Generals con- the tournament in Dallas on Saturday, most in school history, and W&L se— this far. We’re just making history.”
V

     

 

BY DAVID CROWELL
.\SSl.\'T.\\”l‘ s1>oitrs };‘l)lT()R

ATLANTA —— The fourth-seeded
Washington and Lee volleyball team
dropped a 30- 17, 30-22, 30-18 decision to
top seed Trinity (Texas) University in the
NCAA Division HI South Regional Semi-
ﬁnal on Friday night at Emory Univer-
sity, ending a season in which the Gen-
erals won a school-record 32 matches.

W&L also reached the regional
semiﬁnals for the second straight year
despite graduating five seniors, in-
cluding three-tirne Old Dominion Ath-
letic Conference Player of the Year
Lindsay Ruckert, from last year’s
squad and starting five underclass-
men throughout the season.

This ability to overcome the huge
changes led sophomore outside hit-
ter Michelle Chastain to look optimis-
tically towards the future.

“We have a great team and I think
we have a great shot at winning
regionals next year and advancing
further in the tournament,” the First
Team All—ODAC selection said. “Los-
ing (Stacey) Kirmnel next year and this
past week was tough, but we really
fought through. I think we’ll do some
great things in the future.”

The Generals reached the semiﬁ-
nals by earning an impressive victory
over Christopher Newport on Thurs-
day night, a squad that defeated W&L,
3-2, on both Sept. 7 and Oct. 10.

W&L won the first two games,
30-19 and 30-27, before dropping the

WARNER CENTER. Sophomorejennifer Lux sets the ball for
freshman Taylor Gibson (2) in an early-season match as (from

left) sophomore Michelle Chastain, freshman Susan Gaillard

third game, 30-28. The Generals came
back for a 30-20 win in the fourth game
to take the match.

Sophomore outside hitter Emily
Wolﬁng led the Generals with 15 kills and
20 digs, with Chastain adding 12 kills and

14 digs. Freshman setter Christine
Gladysz tallied 34 assists and four aces.

Chastain said the difference be-
tween the earlier losses and Thursday’s
victory was in the team’s attitude.

“We’ve been playing a lot better
as a team in the past few weeks, so I
think that helped our conﬁdence,” she

said. “We went out with a lot of con-
fidence and weren’t intimidated."
Unfortunately, Chastain admitted
that the Generals were a bit intimidated
by the Tigers, who surprised W&L’s
defense with its quick offense.
“They’re a great team and they’re
the No. 4 team in the nation for a reason,”
she said, “but we also made some errors
on things that we have control over.”
Chastain provided a bright spot,
however, as she broke Ruckert’s
single-season record for kills, tallying
13 to finish the year with 475. Chastain

FIIE PHOTO

and sophomore Erriily Wolﬁng look on. The Generals set a
school record for wins with a 32-8 campaign and won their
ﬁfth Old Dominion Athletic Conference title in six years.

also added 10 digs but was modest
about her record-breaking year.

“I try my best and I worked really
hard this season,” she said. “I went
through a rough spot about the midway
point of the season and my teammates
really picked me up. I always attribute
any of my success to my teammates.”

Wolﬁng contributed ﬁve kills and
11 digs while Gladysz ﬁnished with
27 assists and eight digs.

The Generals ﬁnished the season
at 32-8 and won their second straight
ODAC championship.

stroke and 200 breaststroke — and
also won the 100 backstroke.

Senior Kelli Austin won the 200
and 500 freestyle races, while junior
Jackie Green won the 100 and 200-
yard butterﬂy events.

Jacobs also mixed up the relays.
“We divided them up by years. The se-
niors swarn one, the juniors another, and
so on, and that made it a lot of  she
said. ‘They all swam good, quality races,
and that’s what I wanted to see.”

“This meet was a deﬁnite con-
fidence builder after the loss to
Randolph-Macon,” she added.

The W&L women will return to
action when they travel to Bryn
Mawr on Nov. 23.

It BY MICHAEL LEE
SPORTS WRITER

Wednesday evening brought

the women from Hollins to Twombly

‘V Pool for an Old Dominion Athletic

Conference swim meet. In a decisive

victory, the Generals brought home
the win with a 176-81 score.

Coach Kiki Jacobs noted quality
swimming from her team, “We swam
pretty well today. There were a lot of
people swimming off events, but in
spite of that, it was a good meet.”

d Senior Blair Huffman led the

', Generals, winning three events.
Huffman swam to two victories in
successive events —- the 200 back-

’ II

‘N

 

 



 

\

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 18, 2002 ._

BASKETBALL TAKES COURT FOR 2002-03

1 K)L'R'lE.\\'Ol7bl’()Rl.\‘ lNK)K\l\"ll( ).\

TWO-GUARD. Sophomore Ian McClure contributed 6.2 points per game from the
backcourt as a freshman for the W/ashington and Lee men’s team in 2001-02.

BY DONNY BANKS
Sl’()lt'l'S \‘i’RlTl7.R

The Washington and Lee men’s
basketball team, which ﬁnished up last
season with an 8-17 overall record,
was picked to ﬁnish eighth out of 10
teams in the Old Dominion Athletic
Conference coaches’ poll released on
Oct. 3 1.

The Generals, however, haven’t
been frightened by this or by their
losing record in 2001-02. In fact, the
team seems to carry a lot of confi-
dence going into the new year.

And rightly so.

The Generals lost no senior dur-
ing the offseason, and, not surpris-
ingly, this year’s team should be re-
plete with experience.

Most of the Generals’ leadership
will stem from its three captains, se-
nior Scott Hetterman and juniors
Michael Denbow and Hamill Jones.

Hetterman, the squad’s lone se-
nior, has led the team in rebounding
the past two seasons and averaged

10.5 points per game last year.

“This is Scott’s senior year and
he will be playing with a certain sense
of urgency,” head coach Jeff Lafave
said. “He is very talented and will do
a lot for us this season. He’ll be espe-
cially valuable in bringing along some
of the younger guys. He knows how
things work in the league and will be
able to offer important advice.”

W&L combats small roster with talent

BY ERIN JULIUS
.\SSlSTv\.\'T SPORTS EDITOR

Washington and Lee wrestling
welcomes back seven grapplers from
last year’s roster as the Generals look
to improve on their 3-7 record from
2001-02. '

Freshman Grant Krapf has joined
the team at the l33—pound class, but
W&L still has a couple of weight
classes to ﬁll.

“This season will be long in terms
of dual meets because we will be for-
feiting at least two weight classes,”
said senior co-captain Alex Poor, who
wrestles at 165 pounds.

Despite the lack of depth, 141-
pound senior co-captain John Polena
believes that the Generals are in for a
good season in the Centennial Con-
ference.

“We have a lot of talent on this
year’s team, and hopefully that will
translate into a number of conference
victories,” Polena said.

Veteran head coach Gary Franke
believes that W&L’s success in 2002-
03 will depend in part on the performance
of their senior leaders, Poor and Polena.
“We should get a lot of mileage out of
our two captains,” Franke said.

The Generals opened their sea-
son with the individual-only VMI
Keydet Invitational on Nov. 3 and
competed in the McDaniel Invitational
on Nov. 9. At McDaniel, a conference
opponent, W&L came away with one
win and four losses.

The team is also confident in the
ability of l84—pound junior Joe Mueller,
who won his weight class at the Cen-
tennial Conference Championships as
a freshman and placed third last year.

“He continues to win consis-
tently and has a good shot at win-

Denbow, who led the Generals in
assists his freshman and sophomore
years, and Jones, who averaged 5.2
points and 4.6 rebounds per game last
season, should also contribute sig-
nificantly.

In addition, expect a strong show-
ing from the sophomores, especially
the guys in the backcourt: guards
Mike Stuart, Ian McClure and Wes
McAdams. Stuart is an impressive
scorer who averaged 9.4 points a con-
test and shot a tearn-high 33 percent

. from three-point range.

McClure, who averaged 6.2
points per game, should add strength,
shooting and toughness, as he
played in all 25 games for the Gener-
als last season.

McAdams, who played only one
minute last season due to a shoulder
injury, will return healthy this year and
will likely make an impact immediately.

The other sophomores —Mark
Franceski, who led the team by shoot-
ing 53.8 percent from the ﬁeld; Patrick
Neuman, fresh from the football team;
and Valery Yankov —will contribute
as well.

Ifthe team is replete with experi-
ence, it is also ﬁlled with freshmen.
The Generals have added ﬁve fresh-
men to the roster this year, which
should add some fresh ability and an
optimistic attitude.

“All five of these guys bring
something unique to the table. I think

Men’s team osn’t heed low expectations

that they will follow the lead of our
upperclassmen and become a signiﬁ-
cant factor this season,” Lafave said.
“Also, given the talent and experience
of our upperclassmen, we can give
them some time to integrate into the
system, and we won’t have to throw
them right in like we did last season.”

Freshman forward Matt Lawless
shared his coach’s sentiment. “We
have some good skills and bring heart,
hard work and dedication to practice,”
Lawless said. “We’ll try to contribute
whenever we can.”

The Generals have a tough
schedule this year, playing nationally-
ranked ODAC foes Hampden-Sydney
and Randolph-Macon each twice.

“Obviously, it is always difficult
to see teams as tough as Hampden-
Sydney and Randolph-Macon mul-
tiple times in the regular season, but
we have a great team, and beating
teams such as these could really give
us a boost,” Lafave said.

In addition, the team will face a
formidable Division I foe in Davidson
in only their third game.

“We try to play a Division I op-
ponent every. year,” the coach said.
“The Davidson game should be a
great experience and, hopefully, as
competitive as our game against Wil-
liam & Mary last season, which we
lost by only 13 points.”

W&L will start the season with
the Tipoff Tournament on Nov. 22 at
home in the Warner Center. Lafave and
some of his players understand that
the crowds might be scarce at the
games because that Friday marks the
beginning of the Thanksgiving holi-
day, but the team still has its sights
set on winning the toumament.

“I think that winning the Tipoff
Tournament would be our first goal
of the season, and to have a sizeable
audience certainly wouldn’t hurt,”
Lafave said.

With experience, talent and positive
attitudes, the Generals will charge into
this season with good expectations.

No one is more conﬁdent and
optimistic than Lafave. “We’d like to
go into Christmas break with a win-
ning record,” he said. “After that,
we’ll aim for a good seeding in the
ODAC Tournament, and ultimately,
we’d like to win at least one game in
that toumament.”

Lafave added that these goals
were made by the team itself and that
the team found them very realistic.

Given what the team has going for
it, these goals seem very realistic, indeed.

TITLE Asi>IRATIoNs.]unior]oe Mueller looks to return to the
top of the Centennial Conference after winning the 184-pound

ning his second conference title,”
Poor said of Mueller.

Junior Michael Bennett, who
missed the previous.two seasons be-
cause of shoulder injuries, will replace
Ezra Morse at 197 pounds. Bennett
and Mueller each won four of their
ﬁve matches at McDaniel.

“Those two look to be the most
successful so far,” Franke said.

Sophomores Joshua Grahe (149
pounds) and Brian Avello (174), junior
Corey Little (157) and senior Jason Smee
(285) round out the Generals’ roster.

“While we are strongest at our
upper weights, we have good wres-

tlers throughout our lineup,” Poor
said. “If we have a few other guys
step up and really perform, especially
during the conference tournament, we
stand a chance of doing pretty well in
the conference this year.”

W&L doesn’t take the mat again
until Jan. 4. They now practice “ﬁve
to six days a week,” Franke said, “but
they have to have a day off.”

In practice, the Generals prepare
for matches by drilling and condition-
ing. “We work extremely hard as a
team. Wrestling as a sport requires a
lot of extra conditioning and dedica-
tion,” Poor said.

class in 2000-01. The Generals host the W&L Quadrarigular
on Jan. 4 in the Warner Center.

Generals enter transition year

Snyder takes over interim head coaching
duties for team that returns 2 starters and
was picked 10th out of 11 ODAC teams

BY DAVID CROWELL
.tSSlSTAN'l’ SPORTS EDITOR

With the sudden resignation of coach Janet Hollack
in the middle of August to pursue other coaching oppor-
tunities and the graduation of the school’s all-time lead-
ers in scoring and rebounding, Jessica Mentz, and
blocked shots, Megan Babst, the future of the Washing-
ton and Lee Women’s basketball program was uncertain.

When you consider the fact that only a handful of
girls were willing to play in 2002-03, you’d think the desk
of the new head coach would require a bottle of aspirin.

But interim head coach Bryan Snyder, who just fm-
ished coaching the W&L volleyball team to another NCAA
Division IH Tournament appearance, seems upbeat and
enthusiastic about the coming season. He understands
why it was important that he accept the temporary job.

“I think the most important thing is that this be-
comes a good experience for the ladies, and I think that’s
why they asked me to take this position, to maintain
some continuity,” he said. “I’m someone that they’re
familiar with and I know the program, I know the kids, I
know the university.”

Being a part of the program as an assistant coach
for two seasons, Snyder is also familiar with the immense
role that Mentz and Babst, along with Sarah Schmidt
and Carter Thomas, played in molding W&L Women’s
basketball.

Mentz, a two—time Old Dominion Athletic Confer-
ence Player of the Year, averaged 20 points and 11.8
rebounds per game last season. Babst used her tall frame
to dominate the inside and averaged 19 points and 10.1
rebounds a contest.

Schmidt converted on over 40 percent of her three-
point attempts, and Thomas was the emotional leader.

The first goal for Snyder and the Generals to over-
come will be an adjustment regarding offensive strategy.
Snyder admits that his team lacks sufﬁcient size to bang
the ball into the middle on every possession.

“We don’t have a lot of size, so offensively we’re
going to utilize screens and we’ll be a little more perim-
eter-orientated than last year,” he said. “We’re going to
try to be a little more balanced.”

He also hopes that the team can use their strength
at the guard position to “free up some of our better ath-
letes to drive one—on-one from the wings.”

Leading the Generals on the floor will be sopho-
more point guard Bethany Dannelly, who led the ODAC
in assists by dishing out 5.85 per game as a freshman.

The two captains of the team are also the lone se-

niors, Elizabeth Igo and Austin Calhoun. Snyder de— .

scribed the key role they played in the offseason.

“From the moment we got beat in the ODAC Tour-
nament, they took it on as their team. They have pushed
everyone in the offseason workouts and were involved
in the coaching transition,” Snyder said. “They have a
lot invested in this program and from the work ethic
standpoint, they will lead by example.”

In addition, the Generals return sophomore forward
Emily Barker, who started last season, and junior guard

(ft lL'Kll*.\\'()l~' DR )Kl.\ l.\'l()l{\ l‘iTl0N

ENHANCED ROLE. Senior co-captain Elizabeth Igo will see
more playing time after averaging 13.8 minutes a contest
off the bench for the Generals last year.

Heather Coleman. Snyder described Coleman as a player
“who goes out and isn’t intimidated by other people,
plays hard and does what we ask her.”

Snyder will depend on his players to do whatever is
necessary, since they will be playing the first few games
with only eight players in uniform. He assumes that the
freshmen will get plenty of minutes — especially Louisa
Feve, who will start at the two- guard position, but might
need to play in the post.

The Generals will also need to work together and do ,

what is necessary in order to compensate for a lack of
size on defense. ,

“We’re going to need to give a lot of help, because
I don’t think we are great at matching up with other
teams one-on-one in the inside,” Snyder said. “We don’t
have the size or experience to play with some of the
better post players, so we’ll try to give as much help as
possible to make teams beat us in other ways.”

With the lack of pressure that Snyder has put on
himself, he has some very simple goals for his team.

“I want us to be as competitive as we can be,” he
said. “I want to keep in place and build on last year’s
good work ethic, dedication, pride in the university and
our program so that whoever they hire as the full—time
coach won’t have to rebuild a fresh base and can worry
about on-court coaching.”

W&L SPORTS SCHEDULEZ Nov. 22-DEC. 4

Friday, Nov. 22
Men’s Swimming

 

Saturday, Nov. 23
Cross Country

Sunday, Nov. 24

Salem International at W&L, 5 p.m.
Women’s Basketball (Scranton Tournament)
W&L vs. Stockton, 6 p.m.

Men’s Basketball (Tipoff Tournament)
Daniel Webster at W&L, 8 p.m.

W&L at NCAA Nationals, TBA

Men’s Basketball (Tipoff Tournament)
Averett/Washington at W&L, 1 or 3 p.m.
Women’s Basketball

W&L in Scranton Tournament

Women’s Swimming

W&L at Bryn Mawr, 2 p.m.

Men’s and Women’s Swimming
W&L at College of New Jersey, 11 a.m.

Tuesday, Nov. 26
Women’s Basketball
W&L at Randolph Macon WomarI’s, 7 p.m.

Saturday, Nov. 30
Men’s Basketball
W&L at Davidson, 3 p.m.

Monday, Dec. 2

Women’s Basketball

Bridgewater at W&L, 6 p.m.

Men’s Basketball

Southern Virginia at W&L, 8:30 p.m.

Wednesday, Dec. 4

Women’s Basketball

Emory & Henry at W&L, 6:30 p.m.
Men’s Swimming

W&L at VMI, 7 pm

Men’s Basketball

Guiltord at W&L, 8:45 p.m.

<r>IIirII3s\'OI:SIx)irI.slI\I<>IIIituIOrv'

McDaniel, formerly Western

Iltlllnllll with liig-time olticia.

use state-oi-the-an euuinment.

associate with saaw GOIIIIIBIIV.

exnerience Phi culture. X4060

Happy Thanksgiving & Christmas!

1

 

Maryland, has won the conference
title the past three seasons. “They’re
looking to take a fourth title,” Poor
said. “But Muhlenberg has some ex-
tremely talented individuals and might
be ready to make a run next year.”

Although W&L still has a couple
of vacancies on its roster, the Gener-
als anticipate a strong showing in
2002-03.

“It’s a good program, and it’s
going to get better and better,” Krapf
said. “The captains are great guys,
really motivated and trying to get the
team together.”

LOOK YOUR BEST Fora THE HOLIDAYS.’

Come by and see Skip, Marla, Connie and Wilson.

SKIP THOMPSON’S
BARBER SHOP

22 S. Main Street. Lexington, VA
Open Mon., Tues., Thurs., & Fri. 8 a.m. - 5 p.m.
Sat. 8 a.m. - noon; Closed Wed. & Sun. T
540-463-5954 ‘

    

 

 

I

BY CALEY ANDERSON
I\ssIsT.»\i\‘T‘ NEWS EDITOR

Another rush has come and gone at Wash-
ington & Lee University, and an estimated total
of 377 new pledges will be joining W&L frater-
nities or sororities this year. While numbers
from this year’s rush do not differ signiﬁcantly
from last year’s, there are some notable differ-
ences between the number of students who
chose to pledge each individual fraternity.

The most obvious difference was in the
pledgeship at fraternity Phi Gamma Delta. While
Fiji reaped 13 pledges last year, an astonishing
25 freshmen chose to pledge Phi Gamma Delta
in 2003, making them the fraternity to gain the
largest number of pledges in 2003. The frater-
nity that had the biggest dropoff in number of
pledges from last year was Kappa Alpha, which
dropped to 10 pledges this year from 20 last
year. Overall, the fraternities that took in the
fewest pledges in 2003 were Sigma Nu and Phi
Kappa Psi, each of which took in four pledges
each. On "the sorority side, the biggest gainer
this year over last was Pi Beta Phi, who took in
27 pledges, six more than last year’s total, though
Kappa Kappa Gamma and Kappa Alpha Theta
gained the most overall new members, at 38
each. On the whole, the sorority that took in
the fewest pledges as compared to last year was
Chi Omega, who took in one less from last year ’s
total of 37. The sorority which took in the few-
est pledges overall was Pi Beta Phi. Overall,
nine Greek organizations gained more pledges
this year than last, eight gained fewer pledges
this year than last, and three remained the same.

An interesting development was the num-
ber of sophomores who pledged sororities this
year. Under the Panhellenic Council’s rules,
sororities may take a quota of 36 new pledges
each year. However, each sorority is also al-
lowed sophomores who do not count towards
this total. This rule was implemented to allow a
more easy process of pledgeship for sophomore
women. As of press time, three of the five so-
rorities had taken advantage of this rule; Kappa
Kappa Gamma took two new sophomores,
Kappa Delta took one, and Kappa Kappa Tlfeta
took three.

In the class of 2006 as a whole, approxi-
mately 80 percent of freshman men pledged a
fraternity, whereas 72 percent of freshman
women pledged a sorority; these are approxi-
mately the same percentages as those of upper-
classmen who belong to a Greek organization.
Both numbers are up from the 2002 rush, when
78 percent of the male freshman class pledged,
and 71 percent of the freshman women pledged.

As is the case during every year, the IF C
and the Panhellenic Council oversaw the pro-
cess to ensure a fair rush process for both the
rushees and the Greek organizations involved.
The rushing duties of these supervisory orga-
nizations, whose leaders and members often
work late into the night during Rush week to
ensure an optimal pledge placement, will now
focus on overseeing the two-month long
pledgeship period.

Unoﬁicial New Member Totals:

Fraternities-

Phi Gamma Delta 25 +12
Sigma Alpha Epsilon 18 +11
Chi Psi 14 +10

Pi Kappa Phi 17 +4
Beta Theta Pi 17 +1
Sigma Phi Epsilon 14 +1
Kappa Sigma 15 0
Lambda Chi Alpha 14 0
Phi Delta Theta 18 -1
Sigma Chi 1 1 -2

Phi Kappa Psi 4 -4
Sigma Nu 4 -5

Phi Kappa Sigma 10 -6
Pi Kappa Alpha 10 -7
Kappa Alpha 10 - 10

Sororities-

Pi Beta Phi 27 (0 soph) +6

Kappa Kappa Gamma 38 (2 soph) +1
Kappa Alpha Theta 38 (3 soph) +1
Kappa Delta 37 (l soph) 0

Chi Omega 36 (0 soph) -1

(The first number after each Greek organi-

zation reﬂects the number of students joining.

' The" second number indicates the change in
number pledging from last year.)

.4

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

« NG-TUM

The iiizdem‘ mice of Wtiihzhgioii mm’ Lee Univeriiiy Time 7897 CD On/he at: phz'.u//tiedu

___ELiMIDATF. . Freshmen men lookat the first four rush date lists in the
Graham-Lees breezeway Monday night. Pledge numbers vary from 25

LEX ABLAZE . Firetrucks rush down Main Street in response to a
three-alarm fire at the Robert E. Lee Building in downtown
Lexington. The fire broke out in a tenant’s apartment at 10:45 p.m.
on Friday. No injuries were reported and the tenant was not in his
room when the blaze occured, but Lexington Fire Chief Robert
Foresman reported that there was smoke damage to the second
floor and nearly all the occupant’s personal belongings were destroyed
at an estimated cost of $25,000.

Preliminary inspection indicated that the room’s smoke alarm was

' not activated. According to Foresman, the building is not required to

have an active sprinkler system under city fire code. Officer Mark
Reilly, who was first on the scene, reported that all the residents were
evacuated to the first floor and all traffic on Main Street was blocked
until after 12:30 am. The cause of the fire is unknown, yet both
Reilly and Foresman have reason to believe no foul play was
involved.—-Andrew Latirner / staff writer

PHI

VOLUME CV, N0.XV1
MoNDAY,]ANUARY 13, 2003

  

jiais Biioo / 1/29R/rig-tu21l’i

to four for the men and 38 to 27 for the women. Womens’ recruitment
quota was 36 this year.

Winter welcome week
provides Greekalternative

BY Km WASS
STAFF WRITER

As an alternative to fraternity and sorority
recruitment, Each day of the last week, students
had a chance to participate in Winter Welcome
Week. The event included activities ranging
from a comedian to free dessert and coffee to
laser tag.

This is the first year that Washington and
Lee has had an official Winter Welcome Week,
although last year Susan Slopek also organized
activities through the Games Club during rush
week for those not participating in recruitment.
However, the series of events were “nothing of
this magnitude,” said Jeffrey Meriggi, one of the
organizers of Winter Welcome Week. The events
were also organized by Slopek, Outing Club co-
ordinator James Dick and Director of University
Activites Teresa Glassman. The events took
place during the week of January 6-1 1.

The activities, which were open to the
entire student body, included comedian
Rich Ragains performing on Monday night,
with free dessert and coffee at the GHQ, then
movie night at the State Theater on Tues-
day. Any W&L student received free ad-
mission to a movie that night by showing
his ID card. The International House hosted
a band party on Wednesday night with
Right On. Freshman Halin Bareke said it
was, “a cover band with a Motown theme.”
Thursday the Outing Club helped open a

high elements rope course in the pavilion
followed by s’mores and hot chocolate at
their house in Davidson Park. One of the
highlights of the week was laser tag on Fri-
day night in Salem. Dean Courtney Penn
played with his son and a upperclass stu-
dents. Bare e said there was also a game
room where tudents could play mini-golf
and Wheel- f-Fortune. He said the night
was, “pretty fun.” On Saturday night, the
Winter Welcome Week organizing commit-
tee sponsored “Neon Nights” bowling at
Lexington Lanes, followed by late night
pizza and a movie.

Bareke also noted that it was mostly
upperclassman who participated, since the ma-
jority of freshman spent a very busy last week
at the sorority and fraternity houses during for-
mal recruitment.

Additionally, on Tuesday, Wednesday,
and Thursday, nights, dinner was moved to
the GHQ from the D-hall, which closed for the
Winter Welcome Week events. Meriggi said
that “for the whole week the meals are sort of
stepped up or made more interesting where
possible.” The monotony-breaking meals in-
cluded themes like Mexican night and Wok
night.

The events provided an excellent oppor-
tunity for students who were not participat-
ing in rush week to have fun by providing
them with alternate social opportunities,
Bareke said.

W&L alum collapses, dies

FROM STAFF AND WIRE REPORSTS

Charles P. Monroe, Ar1ington’s first black
circuit court judge died Saturday aﬁer suffering
from a brain aneurysm during his first meeting
as chairman of the Arlington County Board.

Monroe, a native of northern Virginia,
graduated from Washington and Lee Univer-
sity law school and was a lawyer with Alexan-
dria-based Duncan and Hopkins.

“He was one of the kindest, fairest people I
think any of us ever met,” said Vice Chairman
Paul Ferguson. “He loved Arlington County, his
job and his fami1y...He approached every issue
with an open mind.”

Monroe was responding to a resident’s
concern at the Board meeting when he repeated

a sentence, fell silent and then slumped to one
side in his chair. Paramedics took him to Virginia
Hospital Center-Arlington, where he was pro-
nounced dead at 12:07 p.m. Saturday.

“Serving on the County Board for Charles
was about service to the county, not for any
personal political ambition,” said Dan Steen,
chairman of the Arlington Democratic Commit-
tee. “This is a shock to all of us. . . . He had plans
to serve the county in so many ways.”

Monroe was 46 and a human rights activ-
ist. He planned to get rid of Ar1ington’s 50 most
dilapidated properties. He was also a member of
the Arlington Human Rights Commission and
the Arlington Housing Corp. board.

The Washington Post
contributed to this report.

 

 

 

   
 

.rAMr:;c 3. rmrzzmr ;_r«2s.i.=.re-._.r
wasumnsovr &   . ..

if?‘-i.7‘,"1."‘?""‘-iZ?<,’~;f . ‘-5,; -j>m,a_qu,;;

JAN 1 42883
MONDAY, JANUARY 13, 2003

-.....-ﬂu.

  

5 Sllrlll5l3liiEDlTORlAL

Whence the Mollenhoff tree?

The Phi, more than any other organization
on campus, welcomes the new Reid Hall. Fu-
ture Phi staffers, journalists and writers of ev-
ery type will be well-served by its ceramic tile
lobby, space-age desks and giant ﬂat screen
television.

We’re also very excited that with the
completion of the John W. Elrod University
Commons, the 99 year-old plan to create a sec-
ond colonnade will become a reality. However,
all is not rosey as W&L nears the end of its
“For the Rising Generation” construction binge.

In 1993, The Ring-tum Phi planted a tree
on Stemmons Plaza behind Reid Hall to me-
morialize journalism Professor Clark R.
Mollenhoff. In the days before we had our es-
teemed competition, he lead our inexperienced
team of writers to (then twice weekly) turn out
a paper of record of which W&L could be
proud.

Sadly, there is no longer a Mollenhoff Me-
morial tree behind Reid Hall to lend shade to
passing students; only a ﬂat, featureless lawn
remains. Where has the Mollenhoff tree been
taken? And what symbols of our treasured past
will next fall to the cold steel of progress in a
bulldozer’s blade?

Will the Cy Twombly Pool be paved over
and those memories fade, too, like so many
escaping ripples? Will Wilson Field be replaced
with nameless AstroTurf and the recollections
of games won and lost sodded over like dam-
aged turf?

We are the first ones to welcome the mod-
ernization and improvement brought by the new
construction. But let’s not forget our past in
our zeal to embrace the future. They may take
our tree, but they’ll never take our memories.

GONE , BUT NOT
FORGOITEN .Prof.r
Mollenhoff from
the 1981 Calyx.

’l‘ll_l?. R.ir\éo~m«r Prir

PINIONS

A .1 .BRErrKirrrriN
OPINIONS EDITOR
EMAH; KlR\ll’rlNB@\ltIlJJ3DL'

PAGE 2‘

Trent Lott s  moron, no a racist

As a conservative, I sometimes won-
der about the Republicans’ proclivity for
ﬁatricide (no, fiatricide does not mean “mur-
dering fraternity members”). The latest ex-
ample has come in the form of the Incred-
ible Shrinking Senator, Trent Lott.

Of course, Sen. Lott’s wounds were
largely self-inﬂicted: he waxed nostalgic
and publicly wished that then-segregation-
ist Strom Thurmond had become President
in 1948, so “we wouldn’t have all these
problems today.”

Since the Dixiecrat platform was a little
light on issues such as national defense
and economic stimulus (unless you count

1 I1 -

RIGHT  creased

c govem-

OHN HEATH 04 men, in_

vestment on the construction of separate
schools and water fountains as economic
stimulus), it might be logical to assume that
Sen. Lott wished to return to the Jim Crow
days.

Lott’s mortal sin, as the media so
fondly repeats ad nauseum was blatant,
unapologetic racism. Or was it? The now-
infamous remarks were delivered on the
occasion of Sen. Thurmond’s 100“‘ birth-
day; Sen. Lott was merely attempting to
pay tribute to an institutional icon. After
the usual hyperventalations of the main-
stream (read: liberal) media and Jessie J ack-
son-types, this mini-scandal might have
withdrawn quietly into the night. The force
keeping this story alive, however, was the
conservative media.

If the liberal chattering class was will-
ing to let go, why did the likes of the Na-
tional Review and The Weekly Standard
persist? The answer is bigger than a birth-
day party faux pas: Trent Lott has always
had an uneasy relationship with the Re-
publican Party. His unwittingly pr0-segre-

gationist comments were merely the straw
that broke the camel’s back. Sen. Lott’s sup-
port in the party was wide, but shallow; as
others have said, there are no “Trent Lott
Republicans.”

As a Republican leader, Trent Lott
never struck the right balance. He achieved
the double feat of angering conservatives

by appearing too eager to strike deals with
the big—govemment Democrats, while at
the same time projecting a scary, neo-con-
servative image to the suburban Republi-
can moderates. And when the opportu-
nistic Senator Jim Jeffords announced that
he was going to side with the Dems and
rob the Republicans of the control of the

Senate, Sen. Lott appeared ﬂummoxed and
ﬂabbergasted. And while it is unfair to lay
the blame for Sen. Jeffords’ party-switch at
Trent Lott’s feet, his babe-in—the-woods act
didn’t sit well with many conservatives,
who wondered how the leader of the Sen-
ate could be so soundly asleep at the wheel.

For the majority of Republicans and
conservatives who had tentatively for-
given, but not forgotten, the Jeffords ﬁ-
asco, Sen. Lott’s preening after his
Thurmond comments was too much to bear.

When the media began piling on, Sen.
Lott caved, and effectively dug his own grave.
In an interview on BET, he had an opportu-
nity to provide a legitimate, non-racist de-
fense for opposing affirmative action pro-
grams (there is deﬁnitely such a defense).
Instead, Sen. Lott continued his pander-thon
by pronouncing his desire to strongly pro-
mote the program. As Jon Stewart jokingly
said, “It’s bad enough Sen. Lott’s a racist,
now we ﬁnd out he’s a liberal!”

With the opportunity to choose a new
leader for the first time in six years, the GOP
Senators faced a historic opportunity to
choose a more effective Senate leader. The
economic conservatives desperately
wanted Lott to be replaced with supply-
side aficionado Don Nickles, but his role
as Brutus in the palace coup prevented any
ascension to Majority Leader. Instead, the
Republicans have settled on Bill Frist of
Tennessee, the Dudley Doright dujour of
the GOP, to pull the Senate majority out of
the Lott quagmire. Sen. Frist proved his
ability to stumble into good headlines as
the physician provided medical attention
to victims of a car crash just days before
his ascension to Majority Leader. If Sen.
Frist can stand fast by the bedrock prin-
ciples of the Republican party, the Senate
should recover quickly from this unusual
institutional skirmish.

 

te of the Week

“. . .we’ll tumthe citadel of impeialists into a
sea of ﬁre.”

~RodongSinmun,Noith Korea’soﬂicial
newspaper, refening to the U.S.

 

THERiNG‘-TUM‘PHi

Editor in chief
Opinions Editor
Arts & Life Editor
Photo Editor
Asst. News Editors

Katie J. Howell
Brett Kirwan
Catherine Guy

J eb Brooks

Megan Morgan
Caley Anderson
Erin Julius

Tallie Jamison
Paul Seifert
Thomas Worthy
Henry Grimball
McQueen Calvert
Matthew B. McDermott
Imran Naeemullah
Andrew A. Latimer

Sports Editor
Photographer

Business Manager
Asst. Business Manager
Circulation Director
Advertising Assistant
Contributing Editors

 

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee Univer-
sity, Lexington, Virginia. The Washington and Lee Publi-
cations Board elects the Editors in chief, but The Ring-
tum Phi is otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible submis-
sions and letters. All submissions must be e-mailed to
phi@wlu.edu or in the University Center mailbox by 5
p.m. Friday to appear in the following week’s edition. The
Ring-tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for con-
tent and length. Letters and columns do not necessarily
reﬂect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Ad-
vertising does not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi
or its staff. This newspaper observes current court deﬁni-
tions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Mailing Address: University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Street Address: 31 Washington Street
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Fax: (540) 462-4059
Email: phi@wlu.edu
http://phi.wlu.edu

Lee’s dream lives on

Honor system applies to 215‘ century questions, but needs tweaking

Finally, I have returned
to MetroLex where honor
matters and our honor sys-

continues to guide the
lifestyles and inform the de-
cisions of the student body.

ing merchant who would
rather not break the law, no
matter how out—dated and

.tem,a1beit.an.imperfectone. .. Si11y.th..¢ S.13»,tllIC.ITJ2l)Lb.t3.,H.,iS..

dishonor put both him and
the merchant at risk and is
inexcusable, as well as un-

This differs necessary.
from China RIGHT  THE AISLE If this stu-
where the dent really
mosthonor— BRETT  KIRWAN ‘O4 needed a
ablethingan b e e r ,

official can do is mercilessly
oppress dissidents.

Alas, in our
University’s never-ending
discussion and reinterpre-
tation of what “honor” is,
there seems to have arisen
some disagreement.
Chieﬂy, students seem to be
unhappy with the honor
system when it inconve-
niences them.

Michael Denbow
wrote in The Trident that
using a fake ID shouldn’t
be grounds for expulsion.
Nor does the prevailing
opinion seem to be that
sexual crimes should fall
under the purview of the EC.
Students are eager to enjoy
the beneﬁts of the system,
such as unproctored exams
and the freedom to leave
one’s door unlocked, but no
one is willing_to step up and
accept even the minor de-
mands honor makes on our
daily lives. One would
hope, in fact, that the call to
live an honorable life would
be met and recognized as
its own reward, not criti-
cized as an overly broad
stricture on a 215' century
student’s hedonism.

As such, the EC was
absolutely correct to expel
foruse of a fakelD—it’s sim-
ply lying. There is no room
for interpretation. The stu-
dent was willfully attempt-
ing to deceive a law—abid-

couldn’t he have found one
at his favorite fraternity
house?

This, of course, leads
to a discussion of the regu-
lar underage drinking that
occurs with, from Dean
Watkins’ point of view, dis-
tressing frequency. But,
such consumption is not an
honor violation because all
parties involved are fully
aware of what is taking
place. The underage stu-
dent knows he is underage
and the bartender knows
that the student is under-
age. There is no lying in-
volved. The disrespect
done by both parties to a
silly and paternalistic state
authority is certainly not
dishonorable.

Another major area of
concern is the downloading
of music from the internet.
Using Kazaa or similar pro-
grams is also not an honor
violation. Similarly, neither
is taping music from the ra-
dio, borrowing music from
friends, or checking out
CD’s from the library. Only
if one profits from others’
works by selling compila-
tions of downloaded music
would this behavior be dis-
honorable, much as plagia-
rism is.

Perhaps most impor-
tantly, the SFHB should
pass on convicts to the EC.

‘ Few acts are more dishon-

orable or display a grosser
lack of character than the
abuse of a lady. Frankly, the

fact that there isn’,t a gen-

eral outcry from the student
body for these lowlifes to be
cast from our midst is both
surprising and disappoint-
ing.

Another question that
had been raised is the ﬁt-
ness of EC members who
may have committed honor
violations in the past. Natu-
rally, they are under no com-
punction to acquit those
who may come before them.
We, students, elected them
to administer the honor code
regardless of past mistakes.

Finally, the above is
not to demonstrate that the
honor system is perfect.
Brett Burns raises an excel-
lent point when he calls for
more transparency in EC
proceedings. The EC
should publish more com-

plete reports of its deci- .

sions, listing the votes of
each member and his rea-
son for deciding the way
he did. All of the Supreme
Court’s deliberations and
questions are also private,
but afterwards, the public
knows why the justices ar-
rived at their decision. This
is especially important
when elections occur. Stu-
dents deserve a record of
how their representatives
discharged their most im-
portant duty.

I would venture to say
that the honor system,
unique for its history, efﬁ-
cacy and pervasiveness, at-
tracts and retains many stu-
dents. Let us not be made
lazy by the common permis-
siveness and
nonjudgmentalism of our
time. General Lee would re-
quire nothing less. 0

      

Java @ the GHQ

Every Monday 8:30 - Midnight

January 13: PRIDE- J .G. Bocella
,,,..,,...;?»« January 20: Southern Comfort & General Admission
January 27: Catch -a Fire

 

Letter to the Editor

KEWL calls
for women
in administration

Tovtlfe 'adin;in‘islf"ra'tii(")ifo’f if 

Washington and Lee
University:

Washington and Lee
University has an incom-
parable history. The mem-
bers of KEWL (Knowledge
Empowering Women Lead-
ers) think the University
can be unparalleled, pend-
ing some major changes.
The University has made
great strides in overcom-
ing some of the negative
aspects of its history. Yet

while W&L has improved,
it remains a work in
progress.’

Ethnic, socioeco-
nomic, racial and gender
diversity increased

steadily over the past eigh-
teen years, along with the
recruitment of students
from all across the United
States and the world. Un-
fortunately, our administra-
tion, faculty and staff do
not reﬂect a similar pattern
of diversity.

 Reservatio

As representatives of
a signiﬁcant portion of the
student body, the KEWL
organization asks that you
help make the University a
more diverse communigl by
v -v,-rr "5'-e““».'1,:_"‘ J5
seriously considering

it

qualiﬁed women and other ‘

minorities while filling the
ﬁve vacant positions in the
upper administration and
staff. We recognize that
women are
underrepresented in a num-
ber of departments within
the University, on the
Board of Trustees, in higher
level staff positions and at
the top level of the admin-
istration. This problem is
detrimental to the Univer-
sity in several ways: our fe-
male students lack adequate
role models within the ad-
ministration; our male stu-
dents do not have the op-
portunity to observe
women and other minorities
in executive positions; and
every student suffers from
an unintentional male bias
within the administration.
We wonder if this situation
also affects our overall ap-
peal to potential faculty and
students. Many of our stu-

dents receive an erroneous
message that the predomi-
nantly white male adminis-
tration reﬂects the make-up
of society. Therefore, as the
\go‘rl‘_(‘l beyond 3W(,as,.hington_
and Lee University is diver-
sifies in gender and
ethnicity, Washington and
Lee cannot afford to be left
behind.

The ofﬁcers, members
and advisors of KEWL
strongly urge the placement
of one or several qualiﬁed
applicants who embody
gender and racial diversity
for the following positions:
Dean of the College, Vice
President of Administra-
tion, Dean of Students, Di-
rector of the New Univer-
sity Commons and Head
Librarian. If our University
is determined to commit to
its agenda of coeducation
and diversiﬁcation, then
this goal must be reﬂected
in the administration.

Sincerely,

The Ofﬁcers of KEWL
Natalie Diebel ‘04, Pres.
Devin L. Dickson ‘04, VP
Susan Somers’05, Sec.
Jennifer Miller ‘04, Treas.

ns recommeiided at Casaai dress welcomed

*’Ci1ilCll‘€Il’S menu available A

MONDA1’,jAN'UARY" 13, 2005   192mg :

    

opoooggwz ‘gp ,,_,,Jm¢e. nop!Qouoopooo;_ »g[QqQpIl§0D; uJonnQQoQ9oo¢oo- a o o o o o no o o o o o o o no o o o o o o o n o o o o o co

O~OOO«O

  
 

Qqopggpgopuoptigggo

 

m ooQoo3wonooio

  

gooQqooogogogoaoooogopoqor

   

  

-q-.

 
     

 
 
 

             T°Y'°"

  

   
 
  

I Q':i.OOIOOIC.O

 

.35.»; 5345545;...;;ua.;a..;s;;s;.;.@asa...w....¢.§.a o o o o o o o o o o o 000910500000 o o o o o 00' o o o o out

Kappa Alpha Theta proudly
p re 5 e n ts a n cl w e | co m e      ~‘ .i
ou r new mem be rsfor 200 3!

Virginia Baird  Katie Goodrich
Margaret Batten Christina Griesemer Caroline O’Keefe
Jane Beall Stephanie Hannon Ashleigh Overly
\ Nazo Burgy Courtney Harrison   Lauren Peters
Mary Flynn Detlefs Meredith Hibbard Patty Roberts
Elizabeth Eisenbrandt Mary Holloway AmandaRobinette
Alexis Fernandez Emilee Hopkins Julianne Shelley
Louisa Feve Kynai Johnson Amanda Strickler
Susan Gaillard   Kate Lester Leigh Anna Thomure
Karry Giblin Jessica Lloyd Rachel Wallick
Taylor Gibson Lisa Mabry Kyle Wass
Christine Gladysz   A hl Met I ff Emily White
Jess Good    Christina Zanotti

 
  

  

   Amaya Moure

      

 
   

 

 

 
 

MONDAY, JANUARY 13, 2003

te[yn Zczwyrucﬁa

  
  

ﬂeaﬁqe C[a55

 

Catherine Alexander
Alex Battey
Emily Bisso
Cole Boyle
Blair Brading
Sarah Beth Campbell
Mary Christopher
Taylor Cooper
Laurie Costello
Erin Coughlin
Brianna Derr
Jessica Druce
Kathleen Glaser

Emily Haight
Ryan Hale
Paige Halter
Susanna Johnson
Leah Kershaw
Mary Hammon Lee
Rebecca McRae
Meg O'Brien
Caroline Osborne
Lauren Painter
Elisabeth Putney
Elizabeth Raulston

Congratulations to the
2003 Pledge Class
of Kappa Kappa Gamma!!!!!

Heather Rogers
Emily Sanders
Rachael Seidenschnur
Justine Small
Paige Smith
Kirby Thornton
Lauren Toole
Rachel Turner
Gina Von Sternberg
Caitlin Williams
Rachel Williams
Julia Woodward

 

Ti-IE RTNO-Ti.:;ii

MONDAY, JANUARY 13, 2003

BY HAYNES KING
TRAVEL CORRESPONDENT

During Winter Term at W&L, many
students need a break from the pressure

3 of the semester and the monotony of

campus life. If you are looking for
something new, you might want to take
a look to our northern neighbor,
Charlottesville. Here one can find many

V opportunities to keep busy.

The trip includes a breathtaking
drive through the Blue Ridge over Aﬁon
Mountain If you are lucky enough to be
traveling on a clear day, I would suggest
stopping at an overlook. If you are a
photographer, stop to take photos of this
view. Better yet, if you’re looking to
impress someone, this atmosphere will

I make you appear sensitive and romantic.

My trip included a tour of Thomas
J efferson’s own Monticello and James
Monroe’s Ashlawn-Highland. If you
want to waste your time and money,
go ahead; take a look at Monroe’s
house. I did not ﬁnd the tour or the
house impressive; however, if you do
have the time to kill, I guess there is no

V’ reason not to see it. The highlight is

the picturesque front drive lined with
oak trees. I do recommend a trip to
Monticello. Jefferson designed the
house himself, and it is listed on the
United Nations World Heritage List,as
the only personal residence on the
renowned list. You can take a tour of

RT S

“St LIFE

A “ Charlottesville provides change of pace

in BROO Tl IE RlNCr'l‘Ul\l PHI

PRESIDENTIAL DwE1_uN<;s : Monticello and Ashlawn-Highland (inset) are just two
of the many attractions to be found in charming, historic Charlottesville, Virginia

the house, along with its plantations
and gardens. After you have finished
your tour, there is a nice walk from the
house back to the parking area. On
this trail, you can see the graveyard
of Jefferson and his family.

Also in the area is Jefferson’s
University ofV1rginia Althoughan inferior
institution of higher learning when
compared to W&L, J efferson’s design of
the Rotunda proves a statuesque building.

The downtown area provides
quaint shops and eateries. I would
suggest the Irish Pub. I enjoyed classic
ﬁsh and chips. But if someone else is
paying for your meal, the Michie
Tavern is delectable. This restaurant

serves a traditional l8‘“ century buffet
including fried chicken, black-eyed
peas, stewed tomatoes, and apple pie
for dessert. The tavern has a general
store and gift shop to purchase many
souvenirs for adults and children.
Tours of the 1784 tavern are available.

Although Charlottesville is
similar to historic Lexington, the size
offers a great escape on a Saturday.

Bottom line, Charlottesville gets
4 out of 5 stars for a day trip with
friends. But as a date with someone
you want to impress, it gets 5. The
scenic drive and charm of quaint
Charlottesville makes it a wonderful
out of town date.

'” Reﬂections

by Dean David Howison
A journey anticipated
In childhood dreams
So gladly, eagerly, impatiently,
Should cover all there is.
Ornitting nothing created or dreamed of.
There should be time for all of life.

‘I Before its end.

And no regrets.

No aches of doubt

No symphony unﬁnished.

Race the shadow.

He will not stay

Nor time forgive

Those who hesitate to live.

This powerful poem was written by
Cullum Owings’ paternal grandmother

Helen Cullum Owings. It opened “A
Celebration of the life of S. Culltun Owings”
held at the Cathedral of Christ the King
Church inAtlanta on December 5.

For those of us who were privileged
to attend this memorable, heartbreaking
event, Mrs. Owings’ eloquent words
captured the spirit of Cullum, his wonderful
family, and his many friends from
Westminster and Washington and Lee.

CATHERINE C. GUY
ARTS & LIFE EDITOR

FMAT; OwO@wiDEDu

PAGE 5

Rush Week exempliﬁes best, worst of W&L

There’s no question about it. Out of the 30 weeks
we spend in Lexington each school year, the most
important is Rush Week. For fraternities and sororities,
it represents the climax of an entire term of behind-the-
scenes work and endless discussions. For freshmen,
it represents the beginning of their second life at W&L,
as they ofﬁcially enter the fabled Greek System that
makes this school what it is. But what on the surface
seems so simple is, in reality, the most dramatic series
of days of the school year. The routine of Rush Week
tests every personality and evokes every emotion
imaginable. For one stressful week, the Greek System
takes control of the entire university and shows us all

' the best aspects and worst features of life in Lexington.

The horrors of Rush Week are certainly not
pretty...

Consider the potential for psychological damage
inherent in the Rush Week process. Essentially, each
fraternity and sorority takes a vote on
whether or not a candidate is
acceptable enough to share their
company. This, in itself, is nauseating.
But when this is considered with the
knowledge that the Greek System is about all we have
in Lexington, we realize that the outcome of our votes
reﬂects more or less our decision on the course of a
candidate’s entire life at W&L. Disgustingly, we
decide for them how their college experience will turn
out. In some cases, students have transferred after
not getting accepted into any houses — tragically,
fraternity or sorority members basically decided that
such a person was not ﬁt for W&L.

The outcomes of Rush Week should not be
underestimated; for some people, it represents a quite
crucial turning point in the entirety of their lives. But
this fact becomes even more ridiculous in the face of the
thought processes that are prevalent in bid sessions.
Thousands of factors determine your acceptability to
Greek members — the way you look, the way you dress,
the car you drive, the amount of money your parents
have, the friends you keep, or even the state (or country)
you come from. Its not tough to see that the voting
process boils down to one simple truth: your entire
experience at W&L can be subject to the decision of
one superﬁcial jerk.

It doesn’t get any easier on the Greek side of
things. There are rivalries between houses. There are
rivalries within houses. Bid sessions can resemble the
atmosphere of the stock exchange ﬂoor — all sorts of

ABs6iniE‘iFRA“Ti6RD
TIM SMITH ‘04

deals are made concerning the possible “investments.”

Tears are shed. Punches are thrown. Houses can split
apart and come together several times in one simple
four-hour period. Through it all, the IF C works behind
the scenes to make sure that rules are kept and to
attempt to ﬁnd a home for every person (big props to
Matt Jacobs and the IFC for your time and effort).
Fraternities and sororities certainly aren’t immune to
the superﬁciality and self-consciousness either, as each

house asks if it is good enough to attract an impressive

group of new guys or girls. Sometimes these feelings
reﬂect temporary fears, but often Greek members are
left considering their own personal failures.

With the right attitude, however, there can be a
light at the end ofthe tunnel. First ofall, it should be
said that despite all the criticism it receives, the Greek
System of W&L is possibly the most inclusive on the
planet. Each house is so different that there is virtually

a place for anyone. The bid process

 in itself could easily be considered

elitist, but there are certainly houses

that are willing to extend many
opportunities.

For the houses, the result of all the debates is a
new class of recruits that every member agrees are
worthy of their house. There might be lingering
doubts, but the period of bonding that follows Rush
Week reminds us all of what being in a Greek
organization is all about.

In cases when a person does not get accepted
anywhere, there is some clear good to be extracted
from the rejection: its not that you aren’t good enough
— it means simply that there are aspects of your
behavior or personality that seriously need reflecting
upon. Every person has their own faults, and though
we’d prefer to not have them pointed out so
dramatically, the key is to make an honest effort to
correct them.

Maybe our lives would be easier if Rush Week
didn’t exist. Maybe if we couldjust pick names out
ofa hat, we could bypass all the stress and emotion
that can take us to the edge. But then there would
be no feeling of accomplishment, and Greek life
would be meaningless. Indeed, with all its positives
and negatives, Rush Week shows us many of the
important things about being a student of W&L. Yet,
even more importantly, Rush Week reveals features
of our own personalities and motivates us to improve

ourselves.

Student Rentals
Best Seller Apartments: (2) -2 BR apt.’s in town.
Available June 1. Laundry provided.
$550/Mo.
Call Nancy-James Wm. Moore Real Estate.
463-7080.

# 1 Spring Break Vacations!

Cancun, Jamaica, Acapulco, Bahamas,
Mazatlan, Florida, SPadre. 110% Best Prices!
Book Now & get Free Parties & Meals!
Group Discounts. Now hiring Campus Reps!
1-800-234-7007
endlesssummertours.com

Fraternitiesjsororities
clullsﬂstullenllirouns

Earn $1 ,000-$2,000 this semester with a proven CampusFundraiser
3 hour fundraising event. Our programs make fundraising easy
with no risks. Fundraising dates are ﬁlling quickly, so get with
the program! It works. Contact CampusFundraiser at (888) 923-
3238, or visit www.campusfundraiser.com

Classes starting soon!

For April 26, 2003 Test Date

Chem
2 2 2

 - MCAT
Strat

ames Madison University

Phys

Chem I

Verbal ‘
1

Org l Bio
1

1 1

Phys Verbal] Org I

2

Harrisonburg, VA

Phys

Test
PS

Phys Chem Org I Bio F
1

3 3 3 3

Verbal‘ Bio !

| Test

P8 P8 2 3

Wed Mon
2/5 2/10
6pm 6pm

Mon
2/17
6pm

Wed
2/1 2
6pm

Lexington, VA

Tues Thur
2/4 2/6
6pm 6pm

Thur
2/ 1 3
6pm

Thur Tues Sat Thur .
2/27 3/4 3/8 3/6
6pm 6pm 8am 6pm

Thur
3/13
6pm

Thur
3/20
6pm

Tues
3/1 8
6pm

Tues
3/11
6pm

Tues
2/25
6pm

Tues
2/11
6pm

Call or visit us online today to enroll!

1-800-KAP-TEST
kaptest.com
AOL keyword: Kaplan ‘

*MCAT is a registered trademark of the Association of American Medical Colleges.

 

 
   

 

PAGE 6

ms Rl;\”?G~'l‘tll\lil Pi-ii

PORTS
dfeats CU, sw

ERINJLHUS
SPORTS EDITOR
]UlIUSE@\lllLI.lDU '

Com’ ABE.-\RD / T/Je Ring-tum P/Ji

ZPE D0. Eric Ritter dives into the pool during the W&L’s latest swim meet, against the Catholic University of America.

Womens’ hoops ffer defeat

BY ERIN Juuus

SPORTS EDITOR

Washington and Lee’s Women’s Basketball team lost to
Lynchburg 62-49 in a game played at home on Saturday. Lynchburg
dominated the game, winning 25-20 at the first quarter and 37-29 at
the half. The loss brought the Generals’ record to 1-8, 1-6 in their
District.

Lynchburg’s overall record is 9-3, with a 7-1 ODAC record.

Junior Sarah Michaels was the Generals’ top scorer, with 19
points. Freshman Louisa F eve wasright behind Michaels, with a
total of 13 points. F eve also logged the most time on the court, with
38 minutes and was responsible for a three-point shot, a steal and an
assist.

Senior Captain Elizabeth Igo was also responsible for an assist
and two steals.

Sophomore Emily Barker recorded a layup , as did Michaels.
Michaels was also responsible for a steal.

The Generals out-rebounded the Hornets; this effort was led by
Igo with a team-high of 11 rebounds and Senior Austin Calhoun,
who collected ten.

The Generals had a strong opponent in Lynchburg’s Erika

BY ERIN Julius

SPORTS EDITOR

In a home meet on Saturday, Washington and Lee’s
Women’s swim team beat Catholic University of America
135-70 while the men’s team beat CUA 145-50.

Both the Women’s team and men’s team won the 400-
yard medley relay, with times of 4:28.70 for the Women’s A
team and 3:42.42 for the men. Both the Women’s and men’s
team also won the 400-yard Free relay, with times of 3 :54.74
and 4:01 .65, respectively.

W&L won 16 of 18 individual events. For the women’s
team, senior and Captain Blair Huffman won the 1000-yard
Free event with a time of 1 1:31.36, the 200-yard Individual
Medley with a time of 2: 1 9. 10 and the 200-yard Fly event
with 2: 18.00.

Senior and Captain Kelli Austin won the 200-yard
Free event with 2:02.99.

Freshman Kristine Holda won the 50-yard Free event
with a time of 25.92 and the 100-yard Free event with 55.74.

Sophomore Eleanor Williams won the 200-yard Back
Stroke event with a time of 2:23 .37. Junior Mandi Kimble
placed second in that event with a time of 2:24.60.

Freshman Beth Sauer won the 200-yard Breast Stroke
event with a time of2:39.18.

eeps relays

MONDAY, JANUARY 13, 2003

For the men’s team, Freshmen Clark Barrineau and y
Andrew Lloyd took first and second in the 1000-yard Free
event with times of 10:48.22 and 10:56.77, respectively.
Barrineau also won the 500—yard Free event with a time of
5:12.90.

Senior and Captain Patrick Frankfort won the 200- '
yard Free event with a time of 1:53.08, while Freshman
Reed Evans took second in the event. Frankfort also took
second in both the 200-yard Back Stroke event and the
500-yard Free event. ,,

Senior and Captain Zach Fake took first in the 50-
yard Free with a time of 22.25 while Junior Jonathan James
took second. Fake also placed first in the 100-yard Free
with a time of 50. 1 7. James also placed second in the 100-
yard Free. V

Junior Eric Ritter won the 200-yard Individual Med-
ley with a time of2: 10.63, while Sophomore Chris Colby
took second in the event. Ritter also won the 200-yard
Back Stroke event with a time of 2:09.63. Colby also won
the 200-yard Fly event. Junior Drew Catanese took sec-
ond in the 200-yard Fly.

Sophomore Michael Lee placed second in the
200-yard Breast Stroke event.

The Generals’ next meet will be Sunday, January y A

19 at home against the University of the South.

FROM STAFF REPORTS

Washington and Lee wrestling traveled
to the Knight Tournament at Southern Vir-
ginia University in Buena Vista last Saturday.
W&L placed third at the match with 47 points,
behind Carson Newman (89.50) and Belmont-
Abbey (76.50). Virginia Tech (28.50), Rich-
mond University (21.50), Southern Virginia
(15.50) and Radford (1 1.50) ﬁnished behind
W&L.

Senior John Polena, Sophomore Brian
Avello and Freshman Ben Everett each ﬁn-
ished second in their weight classes.

Polena won 7-5 in overtime against Vir-
ginia Tech’s Russel Tebelef and reached the
finals after defeating Belmont-Abbey’s Josh
Kline 7-6. Polena was defeated in the Cham-
pionship 11-5 by Carson Newman’s Cody
Humphrey.

Avello reached the finals but was pinned
in 4:41 by Belmont-Abbey’s Daniel Black.
Everett was pinned in the ﬁnals by Belmont-

  

Com GABBORD / T/ye Ring-tum P/ii
CALHOUN . “\l(/e need to play a full game of basketbal1...we do play
with a lot of intensity and heart,”said Calhoun.
Whitten, who had a team-high of 17 points and a game-high of five
steals. Seven other Hornets contributed to the scoring effort.
The Generals travel to Hollins for a game Tuesday night. Their
next home game will be Friday, January 24 against Hollins.

Wrestling takes third at SVU tourney

Abbey’s J .P. McDonald (2:52).

The Generals’ next match will be Saturday,
January 18, at 10 am, when they host the W&L
Invitational

Basketball loses toiRoanoke

Roanoke College defeated Washington and
Lee 65-53 on Saturday in a game played at home.
The loss dropped the Generals’ record to 3-5’
(0-4 in the District).

The Generals were losing 30-22 at the half,
then assumed a 45-44 lead before Roanoke
made a 21-8 run in the last nine minutes of the y.
game.

V

W&L’s center Mark F ranceski led the
team and tied a career-high with 13 points.
Sophomore guard Mike Stuart was right be-
hind Franceski with a total of 12 points. Senior’
forward Scott Hetterrnann totaled 10 points and
10 rebounds.

W&L’s next game will be played at 24th-
ranked Mary Washington on Monday. ,

 

Sarah- Arison
Liz Bidinger

Lanier Brooks
Laura Byrne

Whitney Doss

Molly Drake

Ingrid Easton

pledgeclass of

Julie Anderson
Karen Blackburn
Melissa Draggett I

Charlotte Marie DuPre

Connor Esworthy

to the new

Kappa De1ta!!

Katherine Fischer
Courtney Fitzgerald
Meg Garner
Bailey Hardin
Stacey Henderson
Christina Innamorato
Carrie Lee
Olivia Mansfield
Natalia Maxwell
Lisa Miller
Laura Neller
Emily Nethero
Lizzie Newland

 

Leigh Otey
Anna Rainey
Lissa Sale
Beth Sauer
Lauren Scharstein
Ashley Sims

Meg Strother I, 1
Brooke Taylor
Erin Teichgraeber
Sarah Tumlin
Katie Waites
Ashely Warren

 

Q

A

C

if
Y

 

*1

 

.Naborskicks

offthird reading
cam ' n

BY KATIE HOWELL
EDITOR IN CHIEF

Seventeen percent of Rockbridge
County residents read at the lowest
literacy level.

For the third year, Washington
and Lee students plan to change this
statistic by tackling illiteracy in the
county at the elementary school level.

“W&L students thought it would
be a great way to attack illiteracy
through the children,” Nabor’s Ser-
vice League Literacy Campaign co-
chair Kyle Meehan said. “If we can
excite children about reading at an

A, 1 early age, they will continue to irn—

prove this skill as they grow up.”

The literacy campaign, spon-
sored by W&L’s service organization,
Nabor’s Service League, consists of
a book drive, adopt-a-classroom pro-
gram, Saturday’s at the Library, a book
cover contest and a children’s’ book
writing contest.

“(The beneﬁts of the campaign
are) to promote literacy amongst el-
ementary children, to connect the
University with the greater
Rockbridge Area and form a lasting
relationship with the classes and el-
ementary schools,” said Elizabeth
King, literacy campaign publicity
chair. “New books will be given to
every kindergartener, (and it’s) a great
opportunity for W&L students inter-
ested in teaching or just children in
general.”

Statistics show 21-23 percent of
adults in America read at the lowest
literacy level while 17 percent of
Rockbridge County adults read at this
level. King said people at this level
are not completely literate but cannot
perform simple reading tasks like to-
taling a deposit slip, locating the time
of a meeting on a form or identifying
information in a short news article.

“W&L students want to help this
community improve its literacy lev-
els,” Meehan said. “We saw the best
way to do this was to start with the
children—the new readers in the
county.”

Communities across the nation
are taking steps similar to W&L’s lit-
eracy campaign.

Carlos Ossio, a business gradu-
ate student at the University of Michi-
gan, noted the importance of produc-

ing literate children in a community.
He said, “Literacy is important to ev-
ery citizen in the community whether
they can read or not.” Ossio was an
intern at the Literacy Council in Ox-

’ ford, Miss. this summer. “This literacy
issue is paramount to any community
from the business point-of-view. The

please see LITERACY, Page 2

 

.3

 

Ll

PHI

VoLuMECV,No.XVll
MONDAYJANUARY 20,2003

Tie rirnieni wire of Wnrizipiori and In Urrirerrin time 7897 CD Orr/irie oi: 11>/92121//ir.niir

W&L celebrates campus leaders, founders

Author David McC Ilough speaks, intiated at Omicron Delta Kappa /Founders’ Day Convocation

as an honorary
initiate.

The Omi-
cron Delta Kappa
leadership soci-
ety is a national
honor society
that rewards stu-
dents’ achieve-
ments both in
school and in the
community.

The event
took place in a
crowded Lee
Chapel, where
latecomers were
told they could
hear the
s p e e c h e s
broadcast at
Northen Audi-
torium if there
was not any
seating left in
the chapel.

President
Thomas Burish
welcomed the
audience to
Washington
and Lee and Lee
Chapel, fol-
lowed by Act-
ing University
Chaplain Tho-
mas Litzenburg,
Jr.’s invocation.
After a musical
selection by
The University
Chamber Sing-
ers, featured
s p e a k e r
McCullough
gave a speech
entitled “Lega-
cies of the
Founding Fa-
thers,” in which
he spoke exten-

mores EYJEE BROOKS / T/ie Rngim P/ii
FOUNDING FATHERS. Above: A full Lee Chapel listened to author and P.B.S. host David McCullough as he spoke at the
Founders’ Day Convocation. Inset: McCullough is a noted author and Pulitzer Prize winner. Below: Members of the
Class of 2003 are initated during the Convocation.

BY Km: Wxss
SENIOR STAFF WRITER

David McCullough, the au-
thor of a bestselling biography of
John Adams, and host ofthe PBS
show “The American Experience,”
was the featured speaker at
Friday’s Founders’ Day/Omicron
Delta Kappa Convocation, as well

9

cation.’ He also noted the im-
portance of teaching values in
institutions such as Washington
and Lee, and quoted John
Adams when he said that the
purpose of education at such an
institution is to be both “a good
man and a useful citizen.”
McCullough finished his ‘speech
saying that happiness comes

through educa-

sively about George Washington
and John Adams. McCullough
spoke of the imperfections of
our founders and praised their
ability to come together despite
their differences. McCullough
also emphasized the importance
our Founding Fathers put on
education, saying that “oppor-
tunity and the right to think for
oneself. . .had to come from edu-

tion, and that

an-7’ODKINmAT53 education and

“a knowledge

LA SCH 0. f

C ' l\/t‘iVhellOl(3)<Ii d hmy"'g°“e’m
“me C C We“ optimism.”
 Clark BIOWII Following his
MargaretAgnesChipowsky Speech,
Brian Paul Hudak Mfcuﬁlough I:
Joshua Danieljones fﬁlgve fvsrtlinol;
Jamce R- Lyon from the audi-

Rebecca Lynn Miles ence_

Edmound P Power MCCu11011gh
EriCJOb seese has won two
Pulitzer Prizes

d ' th t -

UNDERGRADUATE Cmss or 2;,  0:326
2003 National Book

George   award and the
KathrynLeighFrusti 1§r?n°iST11’1aIh11<¥nan
Kathleen Ann Gibson .112?" e Sm’

_ man is lcnown for
Allison Michelle Gruenwald his books on
AndrewBiianHirsekorn Presidents
Ibraiz Yakub lmani Truman and
Christopher Martinjordan Adams’ and has
. lectured around

Skye Spencer Justice the country, in-
Jane Elizabeth Ledlie cluding the
Ann Bailey Lynn White House.
Mary Carol Mazza Mf>C11110“8h Te-
Michael Thomas Morrow _°e}t‘i'et‘i1 h‘?n:’r:y
im a onmo e

F“ha“.Sy°d Musmfa ODK leadership
Marl’ Ehzabeth Saxton society, along
Jennifer Elizabeth Thomas with Russell W.
Chambliss, a 1974

UNDERGRADUATE CLASS OF g“‘d‘?a‘e °f
Washington and

2004 L .

ee, and Janine

Peter Nelson Dean M. Hathom, the
Natalie Gwen Diebel Assistant Direc-
  Gfeen tor of Athletics
Matthew Buchan McDermott 33d , tlhe
Kenneth Charles Schaefer °“‘e” S a‘
_ crosse coach at

Kate Pauline Talbert Washington and

Lee.
Following

McCullough’s speech were some
brief words from William G Packard
III, who will graduate Washington
and Lee in 2003 and is the president
of the Omicron Delta Kappa Circle,
and then the Tapping of the Ini-
tiates. Omicron Delta Kappa was
founded at Washington and Lee
University in 1914 as the Alpha Circle
and was formed to promote aca-
demic integrity.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   
  

 

I’I"s GETTING HOT IN HERE. Mike Reynolds ‘02 andjoe Cressaty

‘O2 perform as freshmen in 1999’s LipSynch.

BY KATIE HOWELL
EDITOR IN CHIEF

Freshmen prepare to dress strangely and sing along
to their favorite songs in order to provide over three tons
of food to local food shelters.

This year’s Students Against Rockbridge Area Hun-
ger (S.A.R.A.H.) LipSynch will be Friday, January 24, in
the Student Activities Pavilion. Co-chairs and advisors
plan to raise money for the hunger group by charging
entrance fees for acts and admission fees for the audi-
ence.

“Traditionally, LipSynchs have been well-at-
tended,” said sophomore student chairman Thomas
Worthy. “I look forward to just as big a success as in
the past.”

Worthy said the ﬁrst recorded S.A.R.A.H. LipSynch
was in 1985. He said the perfonnances have always been a
success.

‘‘In 1989, Fiji took their act all the way to an MTV
competition and won a car,” Worthy said.

The student chairmen said usually each frater-
nity pledge class performs one act and each sorority
new member class performs three or four acts.
S.A.R.A.H. charges each act a $100 entrance fee. All
the proceeds go towards buying canned foods for
the Lexington, Natural Bridge and Glasgow hunger
shelters.

Freshmen prepare LipSynch acts to aid hungry

“Every bit of the money including the entrance fees
and the $10 admission fee raised go to dining services,
who in turn purchase canned goods for the hunger shel-
ters.”

The student chairmen chose to raise the admis-
sion fee this year to $10 from last year’s five-dollar fee
so more students could “swipe it home” on their Uni-
versity cards at the door. In return, food and drinks
will be provided at the Pavilion during the perfor-
mances.

Dean of Freshmen Dawn Watkins, history professor
Ted Delaney, Elizabeth Holleman Brown in the Develop-
ment Office, Trey Packard ’03 and assistant lacrosse
coach Ricky Matthews will judge the performances and
choose winners. The prizes will be cash and Fancy Dress
tickets.

“This event is a lot of ﬁin and it serves a good pur-
pose,” Worthy said.

Worthy’s other student chairmen are Wes
McRae ’03 and Ansel Sanders ’04. John Taffe, di-
rector of special events in the Alumni Office, ad-
vised the group. Worthy said a new student chair-
man is chosen each year from the freshman class.
McRae, Sanders and Worthy will choose McRae’s
successor after this year’s event is complete. The
group meets an hour each week starting spring term
to plan and discuss the details of the fundraising
event. '

Registrar releases
fall term grades

BY MEGAN Moncm
STAFF WRITER

As the fall term came to close, Washing-
ton and Lee University released grade point
average rankings for the Greek organizations,
independent students and the student body
as a whole. Some of the results are surpris-
ing. Women as a whole had an average G.P.A.
that was higher than their male counterparts,
and the highest G.P.A. on campus belonged
to the Pi Beta Phi sorority which averaged a
3.434. However, they were closely followed
by the Pi Kappa Phi fraternity which came in
with a 3.430 average. All of the sororities had
average G.P.A.s higher than both the all stu-
dent average and that of non-sorority mem-
bers. In the fraternities, Phi Kappa Phi, Sigma
Nu, Lambda Chi Alpha, Kappa Sigma and
Sigma Chi all had G.P.A.s higher than the all
student average, and all the fraternities with
the exception of Sigma Phi Epsilon, Phi Kappa
Sigma and Kappa Alpha had average GPAs
higher than those of non-fraternity male stu-
dents.

PAGE   

  

JAMR ii.  IN Llﬁﬂl-I‘r~.’
 3‘  

 mg, -. ;,,a.:.’

Service group plans to improve local literacy
levels at local elementary and secondary schools

LITERACY, from page 1

workplace in general has become more and more lit-
eracy-based. No community can have the luxury of un-
skilled, unleamed workers anymore. The literacy level of a
community says a lot about the competency of a commu-
nity, and a company will not come (to an area) if there is
not a pool of skilled workers. That will mean a loss of
money. This makes the literacy level of a community im-
portant to ‘every citizen.”

W&L’s literacy campaign will tackle these issues Jan.
20-Mar. l5 with their program entitled “Dream the Dream,
Read a Book.” Meehan expects over 200 students to par-
ticipate in the two—month long program.

One of the major activities that the campaign will cover
is a book drive. Students will collect new books through-
out the community to distribute one to each kindergartner
in the county. The campaign will also initiate an adopt-a-
classroom activity. Meehan said about 100 students will
adopt kindergarten—f1fth grade classrooms that they will

 

visit each week during the seven-week campaign. Each
week the student will work with the children on a different
literacy activity including poetry writing, short story writ-
ing, bookmark making and Shakespeare for Kids.

Some students will participate in Saturdays at the
Library for four Saturdays throughout the campaign. Stu-
dents will meet the children at the Rockbridge County
library for story time, crafts and lunch.

In addition to the elementary school activities, the
literacy campaign will also tackle literacy levels in the middle
and high schools of the county. Students will hold a book-
cover making contest. The winner’s design will be printed
into covers that will be used in all the schools next year. A
children’s’ book-writing contest will also be held at
Rockbridge County High School and Parry McCluer High
School. The campaign will award a prize to the winning
book and all the entries will be distributed to local elemen-
tary schools.

“W&L students are a great group to tackle the lit-
eracy level problems in the community because for the

most part we were all fortunate enough to have parents
who took us to the library, bought us books and read to us
as children,” Meehan said. “I’m not saying that everyone
in Rockbridge County has this problem, but W&L thought
that the problem needed more emphasis in the community.
We can teach these kids the things we learned as chil-
dren.”

Campaign co-chairs Meehan and senior Carroll Th-
ompson thought the campaign would work well due to the
past success of the Big Buddy program, another Nabor’s
Service League program that pairs W&L students with
Rockbridge County children with special needs.

Literacy campaign organizers encourage any inter-
ested students to become involved.

“W&L can only be instrumental in helping this com-
munity if the students are willing to work at this and make
it successful.”

Interested students should contact Nabors Service
League, Meehan or King for more information about be-
coming involved with the literacy campaign.

 
 
 
 

MONDAY. JANUARY 20, 2003

i This nraeeist was a gift Amber Apodaea;

* received from the center where she helped; teens with

I drug and’ aieaimi prebierns. Sins was wearing it

when an underage drunk driver took her iite.

‘Warts: by %.<§’.???¥a<§.'§ -?«.§z:z:fs:<:-

we ms-gpartmmt e=f'£‘r.mia;gm1at'£u..

i Friends Borft Let Friends Drive‘ lilruntc.

Phi

works.
Call

Paul.
X4060

-miiil news briefs to

 

Students to celebrate Chinese New Year

The Dept. of East Asian Languages and Literatures
at Washington and Lee University will be celebrating the
Chinese New Year on Saturday, February 1st. This third
annual China-Japan Day will be held from 10-3 at the Red

House (located between Lee Chapel and the Robert E. Lee .
Episcopal Church and is free and open to the public. The '

program will include presentations by Chinese and Japa-
nese language students, demonstrations of ikebana (ﬂower
arranging), calligraphy and Chinese & Japanese cuisines,
origami, and other events. For further information call
458-8936.

Physics professor wins national science award

David W. Sukow, assistant professor of physics and
engineering at Washington and Lee University, has re-
ceived the National Science Foundation’s most prestigious
award for junior faculty. His Career Award provides
$400,000 over five years for his research projects involv-
ing optics and lasers. Career Awardees were selected on
the basis of creative, career-development plans that effec-
tively integrate research and education within the context
of the mission of their institution.

l Lexington

 

Forecast
Monday- Partly Cloudy, High Wind- 42/19

Tuesday- Partly Cloudy- 32/15
Wednesday- Mostly Cloudy- 29/16
Thursday- Light Snow Showers- 26/6
Friday- Partly Cloudy- 30/12
Saunday-h4osﬂy(Houdy-35/19

Sunday- Moderate Snow- 35/ 14

Fraternities,
Soro  

pled es and new
mem ers up for
Lipsync 2003

Visit the booth outside
the CoOp Jan. 20-22.
Entry fee is $100.

   

Sign your

today!

    
 

Emu S1.0otJ—S2..090fm'3~ows!:udentGro:$
2&3 just 3 
i .. . 

fxéiaiiifzsiie fundraixhg tswialna uiraiﬁlzakiier. P»-is  EH42 rtilﬁsé; hut wrgvcrsf-55
Fun-aikzmlng  are ‘filing; quiri-ﬂy.  with the pmgrsams rim waiter

been-PIE

.lrbrr.r ilrrerreoi .S“(m-,rz°'r*'_g“r)r tiailefge Frriufmiri

....... 

    
    
   
      
      
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
  
   
  
 
 
 
  
 
 
  

4

.1-

Y

  
  

 

 
 

 

lSENIoRs:
CHECK OUT A GREAT SUMMER JOB
IN THE MEDICINE Bow MoUNTAINs

or SOUTHERN WYOMING.
WWW.CO0LWORKS.COM/ABARA HAS FULL
INFORMATION ABOUT THE A BAR A GUEST
RANCH. THE MANAGER WILL BE ON CAMPUS
INTERVIEWING oN FEBRUARY 5. EMAIL B03
HOWE AT ABARARANCH@AOL.COM To SET UP AN
I INTERVIEW OR ASK QUESTIONS.

 
   
   

 

'5'!‘-NR3.

 

  

     

AC.

   
  
   
   
 
  
  
  
 
   
   
  
 
  
  
  
  
  
    
    
   
  
  
  
   
    
 
  
   
 
   
   
  
    
 
  
  
 
   
    
  
   
   
 
   
   
  
  
  
 
  
   
 

   

    
 
    
  
   
   
 
   
  
   
  
  
  
  
   
  

 
   
 
     
 
   
   
   
   
   
   
   
 
 
 
 
     
 
        
 

 
 
    

 

~~.~ . ryf A -

PINIONS

0 THE RiNO-run Pin
MONDAY, JANUARY 20, 2003

'i'i-r:.l{iNi3—'i:i;isl’i~ii .
STAEE EDITORIAL
Phi challenges media. among other things

Nothing in this world can remain pure and
uncorrupt without a little competition or chal-
lenge every now and then. Call us pretentious
(because we are), but The Ring-tum Phi has
decided to challenge the American media to
step up its standards.

America should look to her underling South
Korea and see herself in a few years if changes
aren’t made soon. South Koreans hate America.
This widespread hatred stems from one simple
factor, the bias of their press. South Korean
media encourage their audiences to trust their
communist neighbors to the north and hate
America (who is, in fact, the only power stop-
ping the North Koreans from killing them all).

The South Koreans are not stupid people.
They think and believe their press are showing
them the whole picture. Only through the eyes of
a bystander, however, can one see that this so-
called press is not telling it’s audience the whole
story. Giving the press the beneﬁt of the doubt,
perhaps they cannot ﬁnd out the whole story.

Which brings about a scary thought. What
if the same thing is happening in America?
What if the senior editors at the Washington
Post and CNN think they are presenting
America with the most accurate and complete
information available, when in reality they can-
not see the whole picture? V

The only way the media can combat this is
to search and search and search some more for
all possible information. The Phi chooses this
opportunity to state its purpose in the endeavor
of an accurate and pure media world. We will,
to the best of our 20-year-old abilities, strive to
search and scrounge every story or article we
write in order to provide you, Washington and
Lee University, with the purist campus media
possible. W&L will not become the next South
Korea. It can be the epitomy of a true free press
for the rest of America. While some of you may
say, ‘What can one campus newspaper do to
better the American press?’. We say, it’s going
to take one news organization at a time stepping
up its standards in order to raise the bar for all
American media.

On another note, the Phi challenges the Lex-
ington police to ﬁght thecrirneof this world and stop

On yet another note, the Phi challenges the
Washington and Lee CoOp(eralional Facility of
Glory) to join the 21 st century and take diversity by
storm. It’s high time those drink shelves started show-
ing some alternative faces. Bring back the Switch!

pul1ir1govercold,sleepyeditorslateonSur1daynights. ‘

   

 te of the Week

“. . .‘hot boxing,’ acircumstance where too
manysOrOiitymernbeissmro1mdaﬁeshinan”

~The T ri'alent, our esteemed competition

Dlttill 1. ixlirvi;-m\

OPINIONS EDHOR
EMAi;iqRvrANE@\iru.Ei)U

Dems shut down Senate

Daschle and company refuse to organize, paralyze committees, ignore electorate

You probably don’t know it, but
the 108"‘ Congress, set to convene
January 3'“, didn’t actually get under-
way until last Thursday. While you

may be tempted to breathe a sigh of

relief—aﬁer all, the only days you
know your wallet is truly secure are
the days Congress is not in session—
the reasons for this two-week delay
are disheartening.

The Democrats didn’t get the
memo. The memo from the electorate,
that is. Though the voters chose to
hand leadership of the Senate back to
the GOP on November 5, the Senate
Democrats, in a remarkable Hugo
Chavez-esque display of deﬁance, re-
fused to relinquish control of the com-
mittees. Under the arcane rules gov-
erning the body, the Senate must pass
a resolution “reorganizing” itself, that
is, appointing Republican committee
chairs (now that they are in the maj or-
ity) to replace the Democratic ones.

The catch (in the Senate, there’s
always a catch) is that, practically
speaking, any Senate action needs
60 votes to pass. This year, the Demo-
crats, desperate to hold on to power
for as long as possible, bucked 200-
plus years of Senate history and
threatened to deadlock the organi-
zation.

Money, the most popular of all
Washington motives, was the culprit
behind this quasi-coup d ’etat. The
Dems demanded that office space and
money be split 51%/49%, the current
partisan makeup of the Senate. While
this may seem reasonable at first
blush, consider the fact that tradition
has always held that funding be split
2/3 for the majority party and 1/3 for
the minority party, regardless of who
is in control. It seems that actually
running the government (instead of
throwing up obstructionist road-
blocks) requires more
institutional support.

But do not de-
spair, conservatives.
The Democrats’ des-
peration belies their true motivation:

  

’ fear. What the Democrats know, and

what they fervently hope never be-
comes well-known, is that their pleas
for power have of late fallen on deaf
cars. In 2000, the Dems dragged out
the trusty, but rusty, class warfare
litany. Al Gore told America that
Dubya pitted the “people” vs. “the

 iiiiciiiii ON! I  ii
l.9tl§lﬁ_aHE-iTH.:0i,-. pubiican. they’ll take

powerful,” while the GOP campaigned
on releasing people from restrictive
government so they could. become
powerful. We know how that cam-
paign tumed out.

In 2002, the Dems tried to cam-
paign as “Republican Lite,” desper-
ately trying to pick off swing voters.
Unfortunately for them, when the vot-
ers are given a choice
between a real Repub-
lican and a fake Re-

the real Republican
every time (Virginia Gov. Mark Warner ’s
election notwithstanding).

So why are the Dems desperately
trying to delay and obstruct the work-
ings of the Senate? Alter all, they’re
only two seats away from recaptur-
ing the majority. The Democrats are
running scared because they can read
a calendar- and a map.

.OURTEb\‘ |l‘1i'1i'Z.\'RLL'ORG
STOP! Daschle refused to recognize the new majority and allow the Senate to proceed.

In 2004, 34 seats in the Senate
will be up, and the Democrats have
the lion’s share, 19, to defend. Of the
seats the Republicans have to defend,
only one, perhaps two, will be truly
vulnerable. The Democrats will have
a plethora of seats in such Bush-
friendly states as Georgia, South Caro-
lina, North Dakota, and Arkansas, and
the popular Commander-in—Chief will
top the ballot this time.

Realistically, the Senate Demo-
crats have little to no chance of re-
gaining the majority in 2004, if any-
thing; they’ll probably lose ground.
All the more reason to obstruct, ob-
struct, obstruct now and set the pre-
cedent for greater institutional fimd—
ing. They tried co-opting the GOP
platform in November and lost; I guess
now the Democrats are trying a new
twist on an old adage: if you can’t
join ‘em, beat ‘em.



Editor in chief
Opinions Editor
Arts & Life Editor
Photo Editor
Sports Editor
Asst. News Editors

Katie J. Howell
Brett T. Kirwan
Catherine C. Guy
J eb G Brooks
Erin Julius
Megan Morgan
Caley Anderson
McQueen Calvert
Tallie Jamison
Donny Banks

Asst. Arts & Life Editor
Photographer
Copy Editor

Paul Seifert
Thomas Worthy
Henry Grimball
McQueen Calvert

Business Manager
Asst. Business Manager
Circulation Director
Advertising Assistant

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee Univer-
sity, Lexington, Virginia. The Washington and Lee Publi-
cations Board elects the Editors in chief, but The Ring-
tum Phi is otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible submis-
sions and letters. All submissions must be e-mailed to
phi@wlu.edu or in the University Center mailbox by 5
p.m. Friday to appear in the following week’s edition. The
Ring-tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for con-
tent and length. Letters and columns do not necessarily
reﬂect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Ad-
vertising does not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi
or its staff. This newspaper observes current court deﬁni-
tions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Mailing Address: University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, Wrginia 24450
Street Address: 31 Washington Street
Lexington, Wrginia 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Fax: (540) 462-4059
Email: phi@wlu.edu
http://phi . WI u. edu

Letters to the Editor

Smith all washed up on Flush, fraternities

Dear Editor,

I thought I would share my thoughts of Tim Srnith’s
article in last week’s paper entitled “Rush Week Exempli-
ﬁes Best, Worst of W&L.” I am an independent and do
get a little tired of non-Greeks complaining about the Greek
system strangling the social life of all W&L students. I am
a big proponent of the Greek system. W&L’s Greek sys-
tem is truly unique, most importantly that all fraternity and
sorority functions are open to independents. The Greek
system adds character to W&L and should, without a
doubt, remain on campus for years to come.

However, I have to question Srnith’s reasoning in the
last part of his article. He states, “In cases when a person
does not get accepted anywhere, there is some clear good
to be extracted from the rejection: its not that you aren’t
good enough — it means simply that there are aspects of
your behavior or personality that seriously need reﬂect-
ing upon. Every person has their own faults, and though
we’d prefer to not have them pointed out so dramatically,
the key is to make an honest effort to correct them.” Is this
a joke? It seems that Smith is implying that if you do not
pledge a sorority or fraternity, there is something wrong
with you that should be changed immediately.

Sure, I felt a little dejected when I did not receive an
invitation to join a fraternity my freshman year, but that, in
no means, says there is something wrong with me. Smith
implies that I should have changed aspects of my personal-
ity to ﬁt in with the rest of the school. Well that hasn’t
happened in my four years at W&L and I certainly would
NEVER change my personality based on the results of rush.

  

   

“Nothing.”
-Lucas Gredell ‘06

“Nothing.”
-Anne Hungerford ‘06

All of my close friends at this school are part of the
Greek system and they have never treated me differently
as a result. That is the definition of a true friend: one that
accepts you for who you are. Mr. Smith, if you think that
being a member of a fraternity declares you to be perfect
and me to be inferior, then your ideas about rush and the
Greek system might “seriously need reﬂecting upon.”
Sincerely,

Chase Bice ‘03

Boy Scouts right to expel Lambert

Dear Editor,

hr “BSAdiscriminate against atheists, ” (Nov. 18) Caley
Anderson tut-tuts the Boy Scouts for “intolerantly” choos-
ing to revoke 19-year-old Eagle Scout Darrell Lambert’s leader
registration. Lambert, it turns out, is an avowed atheist.

The Scout Oath is as follows: “On my honor I will do my
best] To do my duty to God and my country/ and to obey
Scout Law;/ To help other people at all times;/ To keep myself
physically strong,/ mentally awake and morally straight.”

My question is, how on earth did an atheist ever make
Eagle Scout in the ﬁrst place? Lambert should never have
been given the honor: every time he has sworn that oath
while an atheist, he has lied. His lie broke the ﬁrst Scout Law
to be trustworthy; his atheism broke the twelﬁh Scout Law to
be reverent.

The Boy Scouts shouldn’t have revoked Mr. Lambert’s
leadership position—they should have gone further and re-
voked his Eagle badge.

Sincerely,
Kyle Sulli, ‘O6

  

“Nothing.”
-Sara Kell Bowers ‘06

“Nothing.”
-Ryan Hoover ‘06

PAGE 3

Anti-Americanism
flourishes in England

Britons tear war, Bush, and strength,
responsibility lost with collapse of Empire

Over the Christmas holidays, I had the oppor-
tunity to spend a couple of weeks in one of our
country’s strongest allies: England. Since the days
of Winston Churchill and FDR, the United States
and the United Kingdom have enjoyed a so-called
“special relationship,” with each country support-
ing the other. America, in theory, has no stronger
ally in the world.

Yet one would not have guessed that by read-
ing (most of) the British press, for with the excep-
tion of the Times
and the Daily
Telegraph, Brit-
ons are inun-
dated with head-
lines from their major newspapers ranging from
moderate skepticism of war in Iraq to outright op-
position.

This would be less frightening if the press
was simply serving as a cautionary voice, which it
is doing to some extent on this side of the Atlan-
tic, yet it is not. Instead, an increasing percentage
of Britons are voicing opposition to war in Iraq,
and more signiﬁcantly, expressing hostility to-
wards America.

Now that their once—mighty Empire has all but
vanished, they seem to have forgotten that the
Bush Administration, even in its presently hawk-
ish mood, has far more respect for human rights
and democracy, and greater concern for world
peace, than the British Government ever did until
fairly recent times.

Yet, the man on the street seems to forget
this, and this reality is reﬂected in the choice of
books on the bestsellers shelf at Waterstone’s, a
major book retailer in the UK. Alongside “regu-
lar” books lies various compendiums of
“Bushisms,” Michael Moore’s “Stupid White
Men” and a faux-crayon illustrated book called
“Tony (Blair) and Me,” attributed to President
Bush but of course just another product of the
various parody houses out there.

“Tony and Me” is the worst, because it stoops
to the lowest common denominator and reduces
our president to a stupid cowboy who can’t even
spell his own name, let alone solve the world’s
problems.

I would not be so upset if this anti—American-
ism were present in, say, Saudi Arabia, which has
much more at risk (for example, its territorial integ-
rity) in a war with Iraq than the UK does. That
would make much more sense, given the Saudis’
general pigheadedness and opposition to any-
thing not exactly in line with their oppressively
narrow-minded view of the world. But the British
are meant to be our steadfast allies, and it is clear
that this is increasingly not the case. Is the United
States unnecessarily bellicose?

Let’s examine the facts. As of this column’s
writing, chemical warheads hadjust been discov-
ered by the U.N. inspections team in Baghdad,
and the mood has been described as “very tense.”

Right now, it is clear that Iraq is hiding some-
thing, but that they do not yet have the capability
to lash out at the United States in such a way that
it would not be instantly defeated. However, as
soon as Saddam Hussein gets his hands on a
nuclear bomb or two, he will have this deterrent.
How so? Case in point: North Korea.

The reason that the United States is not talk-
ing about bombing North Korea is multi-faceted,
but one of the key factors is because we know for
a fact that the North Koreans could use nuclear
weapons against us or one of our allies in the re-
gion, a risk that we do not want to take. It is im-
perative that we disarm Saddam before Iraq, too,
reaches this level, at which point we will have lost
the game, whether we choose not to disarm him
forcibly or we are brutally attacked.

Very few people actually support large-scale
war with Iraq. Instead, the majority no doubt pre-
fers a conﬂict similar to the Gulf War, in which
Saddam Hussein was easily defeated, and this is
precisely what we are capable of doing again. What
will happen, if we do not act now, is that this ide-
alized battle (in which we really can minimize the
loss of life and damage done to property) is only
possible before Saddam Hussein has the capabil-
ity to seriously deter us.

While going to war is never pleasant, it is in-
finitely preferable to carry out a limited yet effi-
cient operation now, never mind what the
peaceniks say, and invest in a safer, more peaceful
future.

RIGHT-WING RESPONSE
lMRAN NAEEMULLAH ‘05

   

“Nothing.”
-Colin Garner ‘06

  

  

 

MONDAY, JANUARY 20, 2003

hinahs

   
   

  
   

4:», E

otlijng on Lex ‘

'¢

l-l()'l"0(.()l RID). ll ll ll .I_\TR , /D-l L(. . -

SITE OF THE MASSACRE. In 1989, at Tiananmen, the PLA mowed down students who sought the freedom promised 40 years earlier.

Belatedly, I have come to reﬂect
on my experience in China. Perhaps
it was my first trip to Crystal since
returning to Lexington. Perhaps it
was the meeting for returning study
abroad students held
this past Tuesday.
Perhaps it was writ
ing my first paper for
Chinese Philosophy.
Whatever the reason, China is on
my mind.

Naturally, I remember the little
things I miss, like the toilets in which
one cannot ﬂush toilet paper, eel and
squid served street-side on skewers,
and a room covered in dust that ﬂoats
in from the Gobi Desert. Conversely, I
recall the wonders of Lexington China
was without, such as Leybum’s pow-
dered soap, Super Wal—mart and late
nights at the Phi.

However, for all the historical
and cultural splendor that China
boasts, its biggest cities and grand-
est palaces will never match li’l ol’
Lex. Beijing may have the homes of
emperors and a square which has
seen half a dozen revolutions, but

   
 

 
 f04

APARTMENT FOR RENT
7 miles from Lexington
1 Bedroom, kitchen/living room,
private entrance
electric, water, heat included
please leave message 540 464 6698

Lexington’s sense of history is more
personal, more direct and less impos-
ing. Beijing’s byways may be lined
with massive markets and endless
salesmen, but Lexington’s shopkeep-
ers aren’t dedicated
to cheating you.
Beijing may soon
play host to the
. Olympics, but, I’ll
take the Lee-Jackson Classic any day.

More important, though, are the
qualities that set any city in America
apart from China. Here, one may write
for the school paper without getting
permission from the Communist Party.
Our university leaders are not required
to join the Communist Party to ad-
vance their careers. The foreign stu-
dents are not kept in separate dormi-
tories and discouraged to eat only
with their own, not mixing with the
local population (unless one counts
the I-House). Soldiers do not patrol
the streets eager to prevent political
dissent from being heard.

In America, celebrities may
openly criticize the govemment, how-
ever moronically (see the “Cowards

of the Week”). Athletes are not re-
quired to offer their performance to
the glory of the Party. School childem
are not forced to join a govemment-
run group that delivers political in-
doctrination. Religions are not sup-
pressed and outlawed.

In the end, it is not our wealth
or our power that sets America
apart. It is our unique Constitution,
tradition of liberty and reverence
for the rule of law (Mr. Clinton’s ex-
ception notwithstanding) that have
made America the world’s greatest
nation. Traveling to a country
whose citizens have lived so long
under oppression that they are pla-
cated by a fast growing economy
and sporting spectacles deepens
my love for our homeland. Of
course, it also makes me cringe
when people talk as if economic in-
dicators are the only measure of
presidential success.

What did I really learn while
abroad? The language, naturally.
Some history and culture, surely. But
most of all, a love for home, school,
friends and family.

     
     
      

 

PAGE 5

owards of the Wee

Ari irregular feature of the Rjzgzzzﬁz IW Opinions S€:Ci;lO§1

 
  
 
 
 
  
 
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
   
       
 
 

Last Monday at the American Music Awards, Sheryl
Crow proclaimed her disapproval for war effort both in
her acceptance speech and on a much-talked about se-
quined T-shirt which she designed herself.

In December, actor Sean Penn, star of “Fast Times
at Ridgemont High” and “IAm Sam,” in which he played
a perpetually stoned surfer and a mentally challenged
man, respectively, traveled to Baghdad for a Potemkin
tour hosted by President-for-life Saddam Hussein.

Crow and Penn are only the most recent and the
most ridiculous in a long tradition of Hollywood’s bright-
est stars and dimmest bulbs deigning to share insights
on politics, society and life with regular Americans.

Ms. Crow’s pearls of wisdom include:

“I think war is based in greed and there are huge
karmic retributions that will follow. I think war is never
the answer to solving any problems. The best way to
solve problems is to not have enemies.”

“I just think there’s a really vital, sweeping peace
movement out there that’s not getting‘ covered in the
press, so I just kind of try to do my part.”

“Peace, peace this year!” ’

“Hey everybody, I know this is an award show but
I just want to encourage everybody to get involved in
some kind of movement for peace.”

Penn gave us the following:

“Somewhere along the line, the actions of this gov-
ernment are the actions of me. And if there’s going to be
blood on my hands, I’m not willing to have it be invisible.
I wanted to come to Iraq and see Iraqi faces—children,
adults, diplomats, anybody that implies—and go home
with some impressions that will not let me off the hook.”

“(The administration is trying to) herd us into this
position. We as citizens have to take stock of our own
conscience on these issues.”

Sheryl Crow and Sean Penn

PHUFOSCOURTEW1W/1V2REDDL\C.COMAlvDli uzcro ‘ .
LIKE, UM, PEACE, DUDE. Crow and Penn, at the American Movie Awards and asjeff Spicoli, have assumed leadership of
Hollywood’s peace movement. Crow bared her message on a sequined T-shirt and Penn recently visited Saddam.

OM Lr\lET5TORl l

“I don’t believe that, despite some compelling argu-
ments  that it is legitimate for someone in my position to
quote him and to be a messenger of anything to do with
that message.”

Thank you Sheryl and Sean.

Crow and Penn win this week’s Coward of the Week
because of their demonstrated fear of accepting the re-
sponsibility incumbent on our nation due to its status as
the world’s most powerful. Laughably, Crow is afraid of
“karmic retributions.” Penn cowers from being “a messen-
ger of anything to do with that messge.”

Well, Sheryl, Sean, sometimes, the world’s adult
nations, such as the United States, along with our
allies like Britain and Australia, have to act, even
with deadly force, to protect themselves and the rest
of the civilized world from the irrational acts of mad-
men armed with powerful weapons. Just as the police
apprehend and sometimes execute criminals to
portect those who would otherwise fall victim,
America must stop Saddam before he nukes Israel,
Europe or, worse, our homeland.

Ironically, in Iraq, freedoms so essential to the enter- I

tairnrient industry are nonexistent. Here, in war-monger-
ing America, Crow and Penn are free to make movies and
music, dress as they please and criticize the govemment.
Perhaps Sheryl should start wearing a Burqa. Perhaps the
government should instruct Sean whom to vote for in the
next election.

For the most part, athletic celebreties have the good
sense to stick to their expertise and let informed, albeit
non-celebrity, Americans make decisions without the back-
ground noise of their “advice. Crow and Penn would do
well to follow their example, because, in the excellent words
of a Washington, DC., anti-peacenik marcher, “Paciﬁsts
are parasites to freedom.”

C-school no longer stapleless

Bolting from the lab in a panic he

   
 
 
  
 

Best Seller lllﬂlllllellls: [Z] -
2 Bl! ant.'s in town.
Available June 1.
laundrv Ilroviuetl. $550IMo.
Gall llanev-lameswm Moore Ileal Estate.
463-1080.

This week, I present to you a
problem that will be known to a
large portion of students: those of
us who are either C-School majors
or taking C-school classes. To il-
lustrate, I will tell you about my
Thursday night.

I was sitting in the lab of the
Williams school on the third floor
completing an assignment for my
Politics 201 class.
The mood was
light as two of my
fellow seniors were
sitting around me.
We were discussing rush, how we
were still trying to remember many
of the freshmen’s names and re-
membering how stupid we were at
that time as well.

Thus, with the conversation it
seemed like no time at all before I
had finished my lab assignment and
printed out my five pages of work.
All’s well so far. However, it wasn’t
until I collected my work from the
printer that trouble started. I picked
up the stapler next to the first printer.
I gave it a good squeeze only to ﬁnd
it empty. I moved on to the second
stapler next to the second printer.
Same result.

 

....,,.,__.l§l£3.l.\_'..IQMSEI.:03

Now if this were merely a ﬂuke
or isolated event, I would have no
reason to complain. However, empty
staplers in the C-School are more than
a trend. They are a promise. Not once
during fall term when I was working
on assignments in the Williams
school were there ever staples for the
staplers.

But I digress: back to Thursday
evening. I returned
to my chair amongst
my peers to check
my email one last
time and log off from
my computer. Seeing that I was a bit
annoyed, one of them asked me what
was wrong. I explained my staple-less
woes and received not sympathy, but
rather empathy. It appears that both
of my two friends have in the past
experienced this problem.

One, however, has a far more
interesting story than mine. He was
completing a paper in the lab when
the trouble started. He printed his
work just a few minutes before the
hour that was his deadline. He quickly
straightened his papers for the staple
to be placed in the top left comer.
Alas, no staples in the stapler. Sec-
ond stapler, same result.

searched in vain for a stapler he could
use with actual staples in it. He tried the
one next to the printer on the ﬁrst ﬂog.
only to ﬁnd as I did Thursday night,
that it too was empty. With the bells ﬁom

Lee Chapel beginning to toll, he did the .

only thing he could. He looked for a pro-
fessor to ask for a stapler.

But the gods were not happy on
that ﬁne day. No professor was to be
found, so he walked into an empty of-
ﬁce. Just as he was pressing the sta-
pler together the professor (who shall
remain nameless) walked in and found
him with the stapler in hand. Even af-
ter trying to explain himself, he was
chastised for his behavior. The pro-
fessor, however, decided it was not a
matter for the EC.

All this trouble because the fac- ‘

ulty of the C-School is unable to pro-
vide their students with a tiny little
piece of metal so crucial to the paper
writing process. So, my promise to you
is that when you go into the labs o
the C-School this week. . . there will
staples. I will put them there mysel
for school-wide use. But, once they
have I'I.1I1 low it will be up to some other
giving soul to replace them. God
knows they won’t get there otherwise.

 

# 1 Spring Break Vacations!

Cancun, Jamaica, Bahamas, & Florida.
Best Parties, Best Hotels, Best Prices!
Group Discounts, Group organizers travel free!
Space is limited! Hurry up & Book Now!

1-800-234-7007
www.endlesssummertours.com '

  
    
 

  
  
  
   
  

CAIIIERINE C. GUY
II 3:. 1 IG-TU"I\x I)? ART5&L113EEDTr0R
Emil.‘ cIw@wIDEDU

II RIN I
 L H MONDAY, JANUARY 20, 2003

Edelweiss restaurant in Staunton provides unique dining opportunity

 

  

J

PAGE 5

t

BY HAYNES KING
TRAVEL CORRESPONDENT

If you are interested in
experiencing different cultures but
do not have the time or money to
travel abroad, there is a nearby
restaurant that will give you a ﬂavor
for the middle of Germany. Only 30
minutes North on Interstate 81 in
Staunton, VA, is Edelweiss German
Restaurant.

The traditional structure of the
restaurant sets the tone for a dining
experience I am sure you will enjoy.
The rustic atmosphere and
traditional German food and drinks
help visitors to feel that they are
sitting in Bavaria.

Chef Ingrid prepares a wonderﬁil
selection of Wiener Schnitzel,
Bratwurst and Sauerbraten. Don’t
Worry; the menu explains exactly what
each dish is. The waiting staff is also
extremely helpful in deciding what will
ﬁt your own taste. If you are visiting
the restaurant with a group, the
German Sampler, which includes
Sauerbraten, Goulasch, Schnitzel,
Rahmschnitzel and Jaegerschnitzel,
should satisfy all of your interests in

German cuisine. The prices are
reasonable, but if you do not want to
spend too much, I would suggest
Visiting for lunch.

Although I passed on dessert, 1
would imagine that the homemade
desserts are excellent. The restaurant
does have an extensive collection of
imported German beers which I regret
I could not have.

Edelweiss is located on 19
Edelweiss Lane in Staunton, Virginia
off of the Greenville exit. Since 1981,
the restaurant has been serving the
best German food in the area. If you
want to take a date, I’m not sure that
most women would choose the
restaurant themselves, but it is worth
a try.

Check out Edelweiss Restaurant
at www.edelweissrestaurantva.com.

Haynes and Jeb give Edelweiss 4 out of 5 Tridents.

Haynes King, Travel Corre-
spondent, will appear weekly.
Next week features the Natural
Bridge Wax Museum

  

Professor to aid in sniper case

BY CALEY ANDERSON
ASSISTANT NEWS EDITOR

Professor Roger Groot of the
School of Law will face a unique
and high-proﬁle challenge in the
coming months. He has accepted a
request to aid in the legal defense
of John Malvo, the 17-year old
Jamaican who allegedly participated
in a series of sniper shootings that
claimed 14 lives and injured seven
more across the United States.

The request came from Michael
Arif, a northern Virginia attorney
who was appointed by the court to
represent Malvo, who faces the
possibility of the death penalty; as
Virginia Juvenile Court Judge
Charles Maxﬁeld has ordered him
to be tried as an adult.

Groot, who has been employed
at Washington and Lee since 1990,
will aid in the case with the support
of Washington and Lee’s Virginia
Capital Case Clearinghouse (VC3), a
capital case defense organization
which promotes the cooperation of
volunteer law students and capital
defense attorneys.

The VC3 did not actively seek
out its participation in this case;
rather, Arif personally sought out
Groot to request the assistance of
the VC3 and the Capital Defense
Workshop, an organization which
educated capital defense
attorneys in Virginia, and which
Groot co—chairs.

Asked why he personally
works with the VC3 on such cases,
Groot responded “I think that
operating in the trenches as much
as I can while maintaining my
obligations to the students and to
the law school makes me a much
better teacher.” Prior experience
with working in conjunction with
the VC3 had greatly aided his
classroom understanding, Groot
said.

While Groot can’t give out
many specifics about the hard
facts and evidence of the case,
he is deeply concerned with
getting Malvo a fair trial in such
a large—publicity case. “A change
of venue...is the normal remedy

IIIoIo<DtRIEsY\IIuv.voIDEI>D
LI-:xINc.'roN’s FINEST. Washington and
Lee Professor of Law Roger Groot,
who will be a crucial member of the
defense team for one of the accused

capitol area snipers, minorjohn Malvo.

for extensive press coverage, the
difficulty in this case, of course,
is that the extensive press
coverage was essentially
nationwide. Where in Virginia do
you move a Virginia case to find a
jury that has not been impacted
as much as the jury in the original
jurisdiction?”

Groot worries that one of the
most difficult problems ofthe case
may occur in finding a fair and
impartial jury before the trial ever
begins.

Capital defense is nothing new
to Groot, who has already
participated in several death
penalty defense cases. None quite
approach the nationwide publicity
that the “sniper case” has received,
but Groot notes that it is the duty
ofthe 15-year old VC3 to “agree to
assist in every Virginia capital case
in which counsel...requests
assistance.”

Malvo is scheduled to be
brought before a grand jury on
February 25”‘, though

representatives from both the
prosecution and the defense
doubt that they will be prepared
by then.

\XNlWAI\lERlCWI’AllU.(D\l

On trial: Accused D.C. area snipers John Malvo and john Allen Mohammad.

 

  

 

.\IEIx\REmLRm\.

 

I+IiIr>IILI<IE§\\x\

 

A LITTLE TASTE OF BAVARIA IN STAUNTON. Edelweiss Restaurant provides an authentic German dining experience in the heart of the Blue Ridge. The food and the
atmosphere make the moderate drive worthwhile. Chef Ingrid, a friendly and accomodating native German, expertly guides Edelweiss to gastronomic perfection.

FROM STAFF AND WIRE REPORTS

Washington, D.C.— Planning a school break
trip? A sunny beach? A foreign country? Ski-
ing? If you’re using a special tour package, you
may think everything’s taken care of. How sure
are you?

Before you show up at the airport with your
boogie board, passport, or skis, review the tour
package carefully and investigate the operator.
Lots of students don’t get the trip they expect;
others lose out completely. They didn’t take the
time to carefully read the ﬁne print, evaluate the
promotion and make sure its not run by a ﬂy-by-
night company peddling a ﬁrst—class scam.

Flights for many school break trips are by
public charter, which have different rules than
commercial ﬂights. Before you dot the “i”s and
cross the “t”s on your contract, do some home-
work and take good look at the package. The
Federal Trade Commission (FTC) and the Ameri-
can Society of Travel Agents (ASTA) offer the
following tips and information to help you avoid
a school break bust.

-Check out the operator. Avoid high-pres-
sure sales pitches for a school break package.
Ask the operator to send you the information
about the business, and the names of satisﬁed
customers. Ask friends who have used the op-
erator about their experience. Check with 10-
cal travel agents to see if they know if the opera-
tor is legitimate, or call ASTA’s Consumer Af-
fairs Department (703-739-8739).

-If the trip involves a charter ﬂight, call the
Department of Transportation (DOT) Public Char-
ter Licensing Division (202-366-2396) to make sure
the charter operator has properly ﬁled to operate
charter ﬂights from your departure city to your
destination. Charter packages cannot be sold
until the charter ﬁling is approved by the DOT.

-Read the ﬁne print. Get a copy of the opera-
tor/participant contract. This will tell you the con-
ditions under which the operator can change
ﬂight schedules (usually charters can be can-
celled for any reason by the operator up until 10
days before the trip), hotel accommodations (op-
erators may put you up in an alternate hotel listed
in the operator contract that is not as nice as the
hotel advertised in the package materials), and
the rules and penalties for _ cancellation. Ask
about cancellation insurance. Rules state that
an operator cannot ask for or accept your pay-
ment until you have signed and returned the con-
tract.

-Understand your rights. According to DOT
rules, you have a right to cancel a charter pack-
age without penalty if the operator makes a “ma—
jor change”. Maj or changes include a change of
departure or return date or city, a hotel substitu-
tion to a property not named in the charter opera-
tor/participant contract, or a package price in-
crease of more than 10 percent.

-Pay by credit card. It gives you more pro-
tection than cash or a check. If you pay by check
for a charter package, make sure it is payable to
-an escrow account (as required by federal law for

Avoid a school break bust this winter, spring

charters) and call the bank handling the escrow
account to verify its validity. Be wary of charter
operators who are reluctant to provide escrow
bank information-they may be selling another
ﬁrm’s space— or tell you they’ll send a courier to
pick up your money.

-Expect ﬂight delays. They’re common of
charter ﬂights. DOT rules allow for a charter ﬂight
to be delayed up to 48 hours if mechanical difﬁ-
culties occur. And the operator is not obligated
to provide alternative transportation or compen-
sate you for your expenses if such a delay oc-
curs. Check the contact to see if the operator will
cover any costs (lodging, car rental, etc.) associ-
ated with ﬂight delays not related to mechanical
difﬁculties.

The FTC works for the consumer to prevent

fraudulent, deceptive and unfair business prac-

tices in the marketplace and to provide inforrna-
tion to help consumers spot, stop and avoid them.
To ﬁle a complaint or to get free information on
consumer issues, visit www.ﬁc.gov or call toll-
free, l-877-FTC-HELP (l-877-382-24357); TIY: 1-
866-653-4261. The FTC enters Internet,
telemarketing, identity theft and other fraud-re-
lated complaints into Consumer Sentinel, a se-
cure, online database available to hundreds of
civil and criminal law enforcement agencies in the
U.S. and abroad.

With two major breaks quickly approaching,
W&L students should heed this warning when
planing their February and Spring Break excur-
sions.

You ARE THE DANCING QUEENS

Victory! The winners of the 2002 Lip Synch competition perform a medley of Michael Jackson songs. These performers were freshmen members
of Kappa Alpha Theta sorority. Come see this year’s competition on Saturday, January 25 at the Pavillion. Proﬁts beneﬁt SARAH; Students Against
Rockbridge Area Hunger. The winners of the contest receive free tickets to the upcoming Fancy Dress Ball, which will be held on Friday, March 7.

HIE PHOTO

you have a life. write about it. x4060

 

 
    

PAGE 6 MONDAY, IANUARY 20, 2003

 & LIFE

Beauty discovered in DuPont

Last term — late Tuesday night of exam week to be
exact — I found myself wandering around DuPont Hall
in hopes of discovering some form of procrastination
to relieve my caffeine-
induced, Leyburn—
overdosed min
Why exactly I cho
DuPont, I cannot say.
But for some odd
reason, late in the night, my walk led me there.

I entered the “realm of the artists”, and to my
surprise someone else was there, somewhere, playing
the piano. I stopped, listened, and for a moment stood
completely motionless, mesmerized by this magniﬁcent
music coming from somewhere up above. I ascended
the stairs, following the enchanting sounds, searching
for the source of this beauty. It came from behind the
door of Shuko Watanabe.

Whether it was Shuko Watanabe herself or whether
it was a student, I do not know. Yet despite Watanabe’s
passion to play, I seriously doubt she would be playing
in her office at 1 in the morning. Undoubtedly it was a
student who, like me, was probably searching for some
means of procrastination also.

I sat there for at least 10 minutes, just listening.
The pianist played ﬂawlessly — it was remarkable. It
was a piece from the Romantic Era, no doubt - perhaps
a Chopin or a Liszt? But whatever piece and whatever
the pianist’s identity, the pianist played ﬂawlessly and
with such intensity that all I could do at that moment
was sit in the stairwell and listen to the melancholic
melody.

The artist never knew that on the other side of the
closed door, someone was listening, feeling a complete
peace of mind and ﬁnding a reason to write a column in
the newspaper in praise of the artists at Washington
and Lee. So, Bravo! I dedicate this ﬁrst article to you,
the mysterious student who played beautiful music
behind a closed door at lam on the Tuesday night of
exam week.

“On the Arts” by Laura Leigh
Birdwell is a weekly column in Arts
& Life that examines artistic offer-
ings in and around the Washington
and Lee community.

ON THE ARTS
IAUEA LEIGH BIRDWQIJ3

 

 
 
   

 
 

Mbﬁl‘, 3 Police
ctor Wa1.K intﬂ

7' lUl‘47.CL)\l/l}[EF.\.\'lRUT\L‘\'Bl/

FRQMSTAFFANDWIREREPQRTS “R” for some sequences intrusion of evil,dissension,

The Washington and Lee Film
Society is pleased to announce the
presentation of the surprise hit
THE FAST RUNNER (Canada,
2001), directed by Zacharias
Kunuk.

Screenings will take place at
7:30 PM on both _Friday and
Saturday, January 24 and 25, in the
Troubadour Cinema. As always,
there will be no charge for
admission, although
contributions are always welcome.

involving sexuality, nudity, and
violence. It is 172 minutes in
length.

This, the first film to be shot
in the language of the Inuit
peoples who live within the Arctic
Circle, is one of the most
interesting and surprising
success stories to be found in
recent cinematic history,
described by Roger Ebert as “an
experience so engrossing, it is like
being buried in a new
environment.”

and jealousy into a small Inuit
clan. The spare plot (a
“romantic triangle” which
degenerates into violence)
may remind viewers of
Shakespeare, but dates from a
time before the Inuit had
encountered or even heard of
Europeans.

THE FAST RUNNER won
the Golden Camera award at
Cannes, swept the Canadian
film awards, and is nominated
for best foreign-language film

 

man o§ ﬂmﬁmmal may Ca:m~'rml;i§'eféis:-_a'

Seat: it w*»a.sn‘x an bar ftrur Swag. The l»m¢“.;3.i F3’/.:>4i»c»e. E)’-‘-i?§IIi3.!'"$I3“Y*§£?:t’I§ ;y;li»g.:§. an-i<;,zs.-.wrv fSe'a.>o:§'f€ty’-rs.
LJC3Ltr.!"1gé' fer ilslegzul c.ﬁr‘u§§. i&.czi>s.<i§¢y. instatsad <36?‘ ct;-ndaesnning, the ;:~=r{:z-§;.vi:r:_ ‘ Eh-2'35
t’.'>z-‘.:-:r‘t9Z‘.£~3it;‘t-K:-2;-i tzhacév" Ex:-ezxal cmrnrnzwnirgr cizaliaicxan- ‘Time caaliicicmi bra-ugh: ﬁr”: ";  '=‘ ' ma
'w§‘.*sc> ﬂan-aited irt*m=ir t£m<: xx: res:-rw.v\.r.:u;.¢z ab-é: 1:3-vi.2él<£=ir'»,g,.. .9-'u'§v<.“l §".h=~¢.‘. d>cu:tt-sw  ¥-ms; i‘i4:y.sl;:«eu:es.i3
12¢: *-m»kzn:t.<:e:r :-:«'4.:r’»‘i¢:.r:?$ Fcar FBsY3!‘:!ilW.-"S titme rmad drug, «twelve.-z!"9;Scé‘l}c!1-3;.

     

l‘z"s. ﬂzsmny whaxc !"1>5£fI'!F}°13.?=§'"|5$- *w§“.mn W?’ 215$! 'v.w::-r‘P<. ?££";g\tZ‘.‘t‘.hv€.‘s'. CT-a:wn:rriwrM'z:i::2ei bmc'=::2rn'm 3. twzzwzsr
p&;;.s;¢: Far a:'~.v«t:rgM:xri=vz, iasgzzacially <i.‘I!’§.X3€“ children-. =KZ.c>:r>rar'n 1.1-:’!i1‘.\;»' n‘::&."}‘23.§%lZ.>i«xI‘1rE.?_S1- l:f>‘r‘i=-«r1_g
maker C£‘sf'¥'§§'3‘.IL§l'1il’.}X gr'e:u.zg:<::. t’::vge:cl~’n¢x'. .A,r°u<.;§ g.;;cz°tt;i:rz,-gg, ‘mwcx-lwzxzl is easy. ju=«s‘t ca-nxazrvz
www»§1c!pr3waurcoruarnIuua§t)x,vsmrg 434' ‘I -8'?7-~KlEW5~.31 3.. “§“:§32'y’l§ uni? 3-mu lmcwv j§£\.'7Lb5$"' g’I"<.\1.iap
can help. ‘.°"cau'§l has §.ur‘;:2sréLs2zd l~'va::m.v rm.i_mh ygfaxs  ;§sg(.“,‘¢;7t‘_'):7r'gg‘)§i5}‘;..

‘iou get More vmeu you set tcaeti-tar.

  
  
  
 
 
 
 
 
    
 

This film is presented in Inuktitut,
with English subtitles and is rated

Based upon a legend 1,000 in the upcoming Oscar
years old, the film tells of the awards.

 

      
  

I

Undergraduate Admissions Counselor

Happy 19th
Birthday Erin!

I

The Washington and Lee Undergraduate Ofﬁce of Admissions wishes to
announce possible openings for Admissions Counselors. Responsibilities
include: student interviews, application evaluation, and recruitment travel.
Strong communicationskills and demonstrated organizational abilities are
expected. The successful candidate will be both willing and able to work
as part of a highly successful admissions team, yet capable of creative self-
direction. Some evening and weekend work is necessary.

 

WE CAN DO IT!

Repairs -- Contacts 

 

Bachelor’s degree is required, as is a valid driver’s license. All interested
candidates should submit a cover letter and resume, including two refer-
ences, no later than Friday, February 14. All materials should be sent to:

   

COOL FRAMES!
HOT LENSES!
SHADES!

EEE MW ©@lTG@ll&N8

2'0 years serving Fiockbridge
at 203 N. Main Street. Lexington
463-7448

3(

Love,

A Your friends
JGB, CCG,
KJH, BTK, and
J SK

Julia M. Kozak
Associate Dean of Admissions

Ofﬁce of Admissions
Lexington, VA 24450

‘B

oo,g_oooo_ov9ooovogqqooooooooooo
W

i

 

-r ERIN]LIIL'S

SI>oRIs EDITOR
EI\Illl;iL11L'.SF@\ii~IL".EDL‘

rrir: Rosr; PIEEII

« Monnryfjiimry 20, 2003

BY MARY CHRISTOPHER
.\‘P()RT.\' \\'RiTER
What do Brian Avello, Mike
Bemiett, Alex Poor, and Jason Srnee

all have in common? They all made it
to the ﬁnals this Saturday, January

7 l8‘“, at the 26”‘ Annual Washington

and Lee Invitational.

Bennett, wrestling 197, and Poor,
at 165, both emerged from the ﬁnals
Victoriously. Bennett (197) pinned
Scranton freshman Trevor Needham
in 1:00 to reach the ﬁnals, where he
held off W&J junior Brad Guinn, 3-2,
for the championship

I Davidson, Washington and

Jefferson, Galludet, Waynesboro,
Pensacola Christian, Southern Vir-
ginia and University of Scranton all
competed in this much-anticipated
tournament.

Tough competition from 1“ place
ﬁnisher Washington and Jefferson
(81 points) and 2”" place University

n; of Scranton (75 points) resulted in the

I

Generals 3”’ place ﬁnish with a total
of5 1 .50 points.

“I was impressed by the strong

‘performances by all of our team-

Q .
‘ mates,” remarked sophomore Brian

Avello at the closure of the hard day
of wrestling.
The Generals’ next meet is the

;; McDaniel Triangular on Saturday.

BY ERIN JULIUS
SP()RT.\‘ EDITOR

In a home meet Sunday, Wash-

‘ ington and Lee’s women’s swim team

beat the University of the South with
a total of 126.5 points, against 114.5
points. The men’s team lost to US

‘I 136-101.

Beth Sauer turned in a strong
performance, winning the 100-yard
. oreast stroke with a time of 1 : 14.7 and
the 200-yard breast stroke with
2:38.11.

Kristine Holda also turned in
two wins. She won the 50-yard free
with a time of 26. l 9 and the 100-yard
free with a time of 55.74. Ke1liAustin

J placed second in the 100-yard free

event, right behind Holda with a time
of 56.61 .
Blair Huffman was also key to the

it Generals’ win. I Huffman won the 200-

yard ﬂy event with a time of 2: 14.98,
the 100-yard ﬂy with 1:03.57 and the
200-yard Individual Medley with
2:18.06.

The Women’s team also won the
200-yard Free Relay.

The Men’s team started out
strong, winning the 200-yard Medley

It Relay with a time of 1:40.56.

A few men turned in excellent
' .-.~ formances. Eric Ritter won the
100-yard back-stroke event with a

PORTS
Four make ﬁnals at wre stlin

PAGE 7

TALLlE]A.\IlSON/ The Ringhrm P/Ii

RASSLIN. A W&L wrestler pins his opponent during the Washington and Lee Invitational Saturday. The Generals ﬁnished in third place overall but with four wrestlers continuing to the ﬁnals.

‘(Generals hos swimmers; women win

‘I EB BR( )<)Ls/ The Rug -In/21 P/II

OF CAMPUS NOTICES FAME. Swim coach Kilqjacobs rests in her ofﬁce after Sunday’s meet

time of 54.72. Zach Fake won the
50-yard Free event with a time of
22.45. Clark Barrineau won the 500-
yard free event with a time of

5:05.85.

The Generals’ next meet is Satur-
day at home against Gettysburg. The
meet begins at 2.

Club fencing
returns to campus

BY KATIE HOWELL
EI)i'I‘(JR IN CHIEI-‘

One of Washington and Lee’s
most popular new club sports is actu-
ally not all that new.

Club fencing is back on the W&L.

campus after an eight-year absence
with over sixty members and a $675
Executive Committee budget alloca-
tion.

“The club is really informal
right now,” said freshman Sarah
Murray, publicity director. “We’re
basically just an organization based
on everyone having a good time.”

Freshman Caley Anderson
helped bring the club sport back
from obscurity in early fall. He said,
“When I went to the Club Sports
Ofﬁce to inquire about fencing, Joe
Lyles, the club sports director, said
that there was no fencing program
and that I should start one.”

Anderson then organized the
school’s fencing equipment from
the 1980s, drafted a charter and
held sign-ups. At his sign—ups,
over 70 people signed up to fence.
He said the club now has about 65

members and 45 practice regu-
larly.

“We sometimes practice with
VMI, and we also have intramural
events with other schools,” Murray
said.

..A.D.d6IS0f1 .aI1d,.M._uILay said 

the range of talent varies on the
team.

“I just started this year,”
Murray said. “But others have been
fencing for twelve years.”

The club practices four
times a week for two hours each
time in the small Doremus gym-
nasium or the top floor of the
Warner Center. Anderson said
undergraduate and law school
students, faculty, staff and Lex-
ington residents all attend the
practices where general fencing
instruction is provided and the
members compete against one
another.

Anderson said, “In general,
fencing is an extremely enter-
taining sport with little to no
risk ofinjury that also gives you
a very intense cardiovascular
workout. It can also be thera-

peutic for people with leg inju-
ries.”

While the club is thriving with
membership, practices, funding and
intramural events, the group still has
neither a regular place to practice nor
a coach. James Worth, director of Uni-
versity Counseling, is the group’s
faculty advisor and used to coach the
team during its popular days in the
1980s. Anderson said he no longer
coaches the team because he has little
spare time with his job.

“We practice in a variety of places,”
Murray said. “We’re OK right now.”

The team participated in two in- 3

tramural events so far this year and
captured second and eighth individual

places at the Virginia Wesleyan Uni— '

versity meet. The team also defeated

Hollins University by 10-9 bouts at a 1

team versus team match.

The group meets Monday,
Wednesday and Friday nights from
6-8 p.m. and Saturday afternoons
from 2-4. All community members are
invited to attend practices and no
equipment is needed.

“Overall, the club is thriving,”
Anderson said.

  ‘Mens’ basketball breaks even with one win, one loss

FROM STAFF REPORTS

Washington and Lee’s men’s basketball team

beat Lynchburg 68-51 in a game played Satur-
day afternoon in Lynchburg. Late in the first
half, sophomore Ian McClure made two three-
pointers and two free throws, starting the Gen-
erals’ 20-6 run. Going into the half, the Gener-
als led 28-22.

The win improved W&L’s record to 5-6, (2-4
ODAC). Freshman forward David Will scored 14
points, with sophomore guard Mike Stuart adding
13 and senior forward Scott Hettermann adding 12.
The team was then defeated 87-48 by Hampden-
Sydney. H-S is so far undefeated this season (14-0,
8-0 ODAC). Freshman forward Phil Landes had a
team—high nine points while senior forward Hamill
Jones and Will each added seven points for W&L.
W&L will host Emory & Henry Wednesday evening
at 7 pm.

Michaels shoots career high,
helps Lady Generals beat Va. Wesleyan

Junior forward Sarah Michaels turned in a ca-
reer—high 29 points to lead Washington and Lee
University’s women’s basketball team to a 56-35 vic-
tory against Virginia Wesleyan. Freshman guard
Louisa Feve also turned in a good performance, with
nine points and four assists. Senior center Austin
Calhoun had a game-high nine rebounds. The win
improved the Generals’ record to 2-10 (2-8 ODAC).
On Friday, the Generals will face Hollins in a home
game.

I nrrnroro
CAPTAIN IGO. Elizabeth Igo (now a Captain) dribbles past a Roanoke player in a game last season. This year the women have a 2-8 District record.

 

BY ERIN Juuus
.\'POR’l‘S lil)l'l‘()R

Wrestling coach Gary Franke is
celebrating his 30th year of coach-
ing at Washington and Lee this sea-
son. Before coaching at W&L,
Franke had a long and varied wres-
tling career.

“I didn’t have the size for bas-
ketball or football, but wrestling
gives you some equality there,”
said Franke. “The unique thing in
college is that we have 10 weight
classes, so everyone has a place.
We have a 125 pound guy who of
course never faces bigger guys.
Also, wrestling appeals to young-
sters who are deaf or blind and
there are very few other sports
where they could compete at that
level.”

Franke competed as a wrestler for
four years in high school and then
another four at Minnesota State.

“Personally, I thought it was a
great opportunity to travel to dif-
ferent schools to the state tourna-
ment. In college, I traveled all over
the country and it was nice expo-
sure to different campuses and dif-

nke celebratesthirty years 0 g

ferent parts of the country,” said
Franke. “Then I spent a couple
more years doing Freestyle inter-
national and a little Greco-Roman
wrestling.

Aﬁer college, Franke was drafted
into the Army and wrestled for the All-
Anny team. “That’s how I got involved
with the World Military Champion-
ships,” he said.

“I traveled then too—— I
wrestled in the World Military games
in Turkey,” he said. Franke then ful-
filled his military obligation by
coaching at West Point, “then the
wrestling coach at W&L resigned,
and I was offered a job. I was then
the youngest wrestling coach in
America at 23”.

In 1979, Franke took over the ten-
nis team. Under Franke, the Men’s
Tennis team was National runner-up
in 1986 and 1987. In 1988, W&L won
the tennis Division III Championship.
Franke was National Division III
Coach of the Year. Franke gave up
coaching the tennis team two years
ago.

“He’s a good coach, a nice guy,
and he deserves some credit,” said
wrestling captain Alexander Poor.

 inseam B‘{H'lRﬂl1S,SU A no

   
 
 
 

MONDAY, JANUARY 20, 2003 ,
iv

Y

      
  
 
  
    

I’H()T(l COLl{1‘l1\YTllEC»ILlX PHOIOCOUKIB'.llI1'.lZDL‘
Now AND THEN. Gary Franke has held a number of coaching positions during his 30 years at Washington and Lee. In 1981 (left), he coached both rnen’s tennis and
wrestling, while in 2003 (right) he coaches only wrestling. Franke has also been a PE. tennis coach for years.

 

I

Sports Events .
January 20-27 

Wrestling

W&L wrestling will take on McDaniel in a quad
meet Saturday, Jan. 25 at 11 am. at McDaniel.

Men’s Basketball

The team has a game on Wednesday Jan. 22 at
7 pm at home against Emory & Henry

Saturday, Jan. 25, the team will face Virginia
Wesleyan in a game played at Virginia Wesleyan at
3 pm.

Sunday, Jan. 26 the team will face Randolph-
Macon in a game played at R-M at 3 pm.

Women’s Basketball

The team has a game Friday, Jan. 24 in a game
played at home against Hollins at 7 pm.

On Saturday, Jan. 25, the team will play at Emory
& Henry at 4 pm.

Swimming

The teams have a meet at home against
Gettysburg on Saturday, Jan. 25 at 2 pm.

On Sunday, Jan. 26, the Women’s team has a
meet at Radford at 12 pm.

  

Seats five, has 53 cubic
feet uticarga space, and
is available with 180 hp
and a 8-speed manual
shift. Even revolution
carft fully explain 
W12 T.€}=”u'Olrl Mil  U5 lt... 1%.  LE!
D821. .F{'B lit-‘JEE
"  villi!  FEE; Bt§U.E3ES W.

 5, teens; can-as llllﬂ neeewtga ._  
 min.  rm rant fern.

    

 

 

   
 

  Before lastweekenitheunlv

  thing had ever burnedwasact].  
Although fire fighters do everythinigtheilican toiiillireverﬁl  I  I 
bums, more than 2.5 million bum iniuries occur ill, ,  A

North America each year. Most could be preventecjc FIRE";

To learn more about our “Don’t Get Bu’_r_nec_lf’ : Humans »
campaign. please visit wyvvy.,lAFFl3urn_l=_ur}_d.orgg*

   

  
 

   





. ‘<23’

This message is brought to youiby the lnterriatlonal Assoiciatidin
. of Fire Fighters. Harold A. Schaitberger, General Preside_n’tj_

   
  

 

 
 

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

ING-TUl\/l

VOLUME CV, NO.XV1ll
MONDAY, JANUARY 27, 2005

 

lloestrrderitrnrberi/‘Washington omdlee UniverSitysirIce1897<D Onlinent.-pbr'.wlu.edu

.Virginia bill may redeﬁne hazing for universi ies, es ablish more penal ies  

BY WILLIAM COPSEY
Tl-IE COLLEGIATE TIMES (VIRGINIA TECH)

‘ |(U-WIRE) BLACKSBURG,
Va. - A bill seeking to give universi-
ties more leeway in their prosecution
of those convicted of hazing passed

‘through a Virginia House of Delegates
subcommittee by a unanimous vote
Wednesday.

The bill also expands the deﬁni-
tion of hazing, allowing Virginia to

‘prosecute a wider range of offenses.

Members of university student
affairs ofﬁces across the state assisted
in the construction of the bill, which
was then presented to state delegate
David Albo, R-Springﬁeld, said Ed
Spencer, assistant vice president of
student affairs and director of Resi-
dential and Dining Programs at Virginia
Tech.

The existing Virginia hazing law
is very brief and speciﬁc compared to
other states, Spencer said. As it
stands, Virginia law also states that

bodily injury must result from haz-
ing in order for a person to press
charges or sue, he said.

The new bill’s redeﬁnition of haz-
ing widens it to allow the state to pros-
ecute not only for actual bodily harm
caused by such activity, but also on the
basis of recklessly or intentionally en-
dangering someone’s health or safety.

“We thought that there ought to
be a deﬁnition ofhazing (included in
the bill),” Spencer said.

This should assist campuses in

preventing and reducing the number
of hazing incidents, said Will Wright,
president of Tech’s Interfraternity
Council.

Part of the problem with Virginia’s
present hazing law is that it compels
universities to expel any student con-
victed of hazing, Spencer said.

Because the severity of hazing can
range widely, from rug burns to paraly-
sis, people should not face the same
penalty of expulsion for both, he said.

The new bill will correct this prob-

lem, he said, allowing universities to 1

exercise more discretion in the pros-

ecution of hazing.

“It is my belief that further deﬁn-
ing the term ‘hazing’ will ensure that
it is eliminated in all shapes and forms
on (Tech’s) campus,” Wright said.

Although the bill before the Gen-
eral Assembly widens the deﬁnition
of hazing, Spencer said members of
the group thatlworked on the bill
wanted the definition to be even
longer and more inclusive.

Spencer said he didn’t think haz-
ing is prevalent at Tech, but because
it usually takes place behind closed
doors, rumors of hazing are taken se-
riously and investigated. It is now up
to the Virginia House’s Courts of J us-
tice Committee to review and vote on
the bill, said Bobby Rust, Albo’s leg-
islative aide.

Committees typically mirror the
decisions of subcommittees, Rust
said, and are expected to pass the bill
on to the entire House.

v

DIAMONDS ARE A GIRI.’S BEST FRIEND

, onors l\/ILK

BY Km: WASS
SENIOR STAFF WRITER

     
  
  
  
  
 

‘JEB BRoOI<s/ 7beRing—tum Phi
NIARTIN, THE MAN. Roger Wilkins spoke of non—violence.

Washington and Lee University and the Lexington-
'Rockbridge County community celebrated the life of Mar-
tin Luther.King, Jr. last week with ﬁlm showings, speakers,
1 d free birthday cake in the Co—op.q ,

Numerous events took place Jan. 15-23 and to-
day. Last Wednesday, Jan. 15, was King’s actual
birthday, and the Minority Student Association
sponsored birthday cake in the Snack Bar, while the
Dining Hall held a Memorial Dinner, where dining
services served a menu of King’s favorite dishes,
‘(including “Georgia-style sweet potato pie.” Later
on Monday night, the Minority Student Associa-
tion also showed the movie Boycott, in Northen Au-
ditorium. Later in the week, PRIDE sponsored the
‘movies The Pinochet Case (2001), Justzfiable Ho-
micide (2001), and Proﬁt and Nothing But! (2001)
during their “Human Rights Film Festival,” from Jan.

21-23.

    
   

BY CALEY ANDERSON
ASSISTANT NEWS EDITOR

Washington and Lee’s Alsos Digital Library
for nuclear issues is now a National Science
Teachers’ Association recommended Web site.
It will be featured in the NSTA’s SciLinks data-
Kbase, a listing of sites which the NSTA consider

helpful. The Alsos site, whose URL is http://
alsos.wlu.edu, is a library of annotated docu-
ments and resources related to nuclear issues.
. .It contains information on books, ﬁlms, images,
other websites, CD-ROMs and periodicals.
The site’s content is created by a wide
range of faculty and students whose interests
relate to the documents available on the site.
- XDT. Frank Settle of the Chemistry department
leads the site. Another contributor and annota-
tpr is Dr. Elizabeth Blackmer, a staff member at

BY IMRAN NAEEMULLAH

CONTRIBUTING EDITOR
I‘ Courtney Penn is always dressed sharply,
and with his imposingly tall frame, Penn could
.'pass for a football coach
dressed as he would be for the
’ii)ig game. Yet Penn is a bas-
ketball man, not a football
man, and he is the Associate
-Dean of Students, specializ-
»(ing in upperclassman housing
‘and multicultural affairs. A
graduate of Washington &
Lee from the Class of 1992,
Penn’s involvement with Washington and Lee
?dates back well over a decade. Of course, grow-
ing up in Virginia and having his father as an

PENN

 

Washington and Lee also joined the Lexington-
*'Rockbridge community to bring several speakers to cel-

 

AMERICAN Inor. A freshmen Chi Omega and member of the winning act looks out into
the audience at the Student Activities Pavillion Friday night during the annual Lip Synch

SEE MLK, PAGE 2 .

   

fundraiser. Approximately 1000 people attended the event, which raises money to provide
canned foods to the hungry of Rockbridge County.

_lEB BROOI<S/ TbeRing4um Pb:

~Site gains nat’l attention

the Virginia Military Institute. The actual Web
maintenance of the site is conducted primarily
by Computer Science department faculty, led by
Dr. Tom Whaley. On site, a large listing of nuclear
issue-related information, complete with refer-
ences and annotation from Washington and Lee
staff, is provided. The site’s name is derived
from a U.S. Army project that attempted to dis-
cover the extent of the German nuclear weapons
research program during Allied offensives in
World War II.

The listing of any Web site as a recom-
mended web resource by the NSTA comes only
when the website is “authoritative, interactive,

. and unique,” according to NSTA guidelines.
.Alsos, which has earned these designations,

has largely been able to maintain its high qual-

SEE ALSOS, PAGE 2

Penn sees more diverse campus in future

alumnus of the Class of 1974, Penn has known
about Washington and Lee his entire life. Yet,
his path to W&L has not'been a direct one.
Back in the late l980’s, when Penn was ap-
plying to colleges, he wanted to play Division 1
basketball, and the top schools that he was look-
ing at were the Naval Academy, VMI, and a
couple of other schools in the South. As it turned
out, he ended up not wanting to attend the N a-
val Academy, but instead, he focused his ef-
forts on VMI. While at the school one day, he
talked to Verne Canﬁeld, a coach over there who
happened to be an admissions officer at Wash-
ington and Lee as well. Canfield spent some time
talking with Penn, and a lot of time talking with
Penn’s father, and Penn recalls that he thought
Washington and Lee sounded like a nice place to

. SEE PENN, PAGI’, 2

LIGHTS, CAMERA, ACTION

‘ jIaIsBIRx>RS,’ 7bcRIrIg—IumPbz
CHOH’H{. The History Channel ﬂew into town this pastweekendto ﬁlm shots foran
upCrx1Ipirigepist)c1ec>f}Iiv‘0iyLs.I1o0j/LLoc)1 theshciwthatchallerigesliistcxicalarxlnacy
in movies. The episode ﬁ1medatW&Lthis weekendwill explore how historically
correct GodsomdGeriemZg ﬁlrriedir1I£5dr1gtorihi2(X)1,wasatpornayingVl\AIliiie.The
productionoewwasintownforweekendtotaptuietheessenceofbeingacadetat
V1VlI.HeliCoptors couldbe hmrdall overtown Saturday and Sunday. The History
channel was the second major network to ﬁlm in Lexington over the past three
monIhsABCs GoodM0mingAmerziatxoadtastliVeﬁ(Xn1eidngtorimVeIeran’sDay.

Blacks lush, pledge

1 NEWS ANALYSIS BY SHARYN REGAN
STAFF WRITER

One hundred percent of African-American students
that undertook the rush process this year received and
accepted bids to fraternities and sororities, thereby dis-
counting the common attitude that the school’s Greek sys-
tem is racist. This statistic veriﬁes that racial minorities
who make’ the effort to rush can ﬁnd a place within the
Inuch vaunted W&L Greek system.

When examining the problem of racial diversity at
W&L, one may now note that much progress has been
made to integrate the school. Statistics concerning mi-
norities accepted to the school demonstrate that the num-
ber of such students admitted has skyrocketed in com-
parison to past years. Unfortunately, the extremely high
rate of Greek—life participation at W&L has not translated
into more minorities joining fraternities and sororities.

Obviously, not every student, minority or otherwise,
desires to join a fraternity or sorority. Nonetheless, the
fact that the proportion of minority students that even
attempt to rush is way below the total number of minori-
ties at W&L suggests that some sort of obstacle exists.

The school has presented Greek organizations as in-
hospitable toward minorities. The problem may not, how-
ever, be the fraternity system. The school may actually be
at fault. For example, the Minority Student Association
was created to provide group encouragement as well as a
social organization for minority students.’ These assets
have been successful in fostering a supportive environ-
ment at a cost. As a result of MSA, students are essen-
tially segregated from the predominant social scene at
W&L: the Greek system. Washington and Lee is number
three, according to the Princeton Review, on a list of
schools with “Major Frat and Sorority Scene[s].”

Many fraternities possess progressive attitudes
when rushing students and look past a rushee’s skin color.
For the most part, personal qualities are assessed and
fratemity-student compatibility evaluated. Of course, there
are exceptions to this. As Michael Denbow pointed out in

see TOLERANCE, page 2

 

PAGE 2 N

East Asian studies prepares Grccks, bccomcl ,
  more diverse   A

for China-Japan Day  

By MEGAN Mono“ Since China/Japan Day will take place nese and Japanese culture, this day-long his infamous article, some fraternities are unwilling to
SENIOR STAFF WRITER on the same day as the Chinese New Years, program will also allow the W&L commu- admit African—American students into their organiza- I
the day will begin with a presentation on nity an opportunity to learn more about tions, This is a problem, but is it a problem with the
On Saturday, Feb. 1 , Washington and Lee Chinese New Years customs. Other events the facilities of the Department of East entire system or certain fraternities?

 MONDAY. JANUARY 27, 2003

JAN 3 0 2303
PENN, FROM PAGE 1

    

University’s Department of East Asian Lan- will include demonstrations on calligraphy, Asian Studies. Because the Red House is There is still the problem ofthe miniscule num-
guages and Literatures will sponsor the third origami and a presentation by Joyce in a secluded part of campus, few students her of racial minorities who choose to rush_ Thus, .,
annual China—Japan Day. The program will be Overhouser on a type of Japanese ﬂower know about it. As a result, the administra- W&L should encourage these students to have
held from l0tillthreeinthe aftemoon attlieRed arrangement called “ikebana.” Each event tion has been trying to tear it down. How— an open mind, and let them know that their race
House, located between Lee Chapel and the will last approximately half an hour. At ever, for students such as Andrew Heath, is not a barrier when joining if they are inter-
RobertE.LeeEpisoopalChurch, anditwillhave noon, there will be a cooking demonstra- a W&L sophomore who is giving a pre- ested_
[Ole ﬂbennnn avariety of events that includes presentations, tion and sampling in which the chef will sentatipn on Japanese video games, the It was only two years ago that an African- )
nnnpnnnnlnyndbnnknbnllfnr demonstrations and hands-on craﬁs. Sponsors show the audience how to prepare 'Japa- house has a lot of atmosphere and epito- American student, Quincy Springs, was the presi-
n1nGnnnnnnnnnStndnnnnInnnnny90S. hope that by hosting this program, they will nese sushi as well as two Chinese dishes, mizes the Department of East Asian Stud- dent of the lnterfraternity Council, which is an
have an opportunity to reach out both to the dumplings and a dessert called eight trea- ies.” He hopes that by hosting this event elected position, If a minority can obtain such a ‘
go to school and applied that evening. W&L and Lexington communities, exposing sure pudding. there, “students will have a chance to ex- position, there should be little doubt that similar
while at W&L, Penn majored in and educating them on the customs and cul- In addition to providing an oppor- perience the Red House” and realize how students could enter a Greek organization if so 7
psychology but knew from early on that ture of these two East Asian nations. tunity to educate students about Chi- special it is. inclined_

he was interested in entering the ﬁeld n .
of education in some way or another. ‘ N I k h  

After graduation, he worked for   S 6 »,
Lynchbuig Collegeintheir Oﬂice ofAd— MLK, FROM nnnn 1 Memorial Address was held at Lee  

rhlS5l0r1S- While at l-Yhehhurg, he he- Chapel and followed by a candle-
frlehded the Dean 0t Sthdehtea Whe ebrate the events. On Sunday, Janu— light march and reception.

C0hVlheed Pehh that belhg a deah Was ary 19, the First Baptist Church of The week ended today with a      n

in his future, and helped hhh llhe up Lexington hosted Reverend Dr.iP. panel discussion in the Northen

graduate 5eh0°l5- Pehh attended the Vincent Buyck, Sr, ina speech titled Auditorium, titled “The Notion of . 

UhlVerSlt}’ Of Geergla ahd earhlhg a “A Celebration of the Life of Dr. Mar- Fraternity in King’s letter from the .

Master’s degree there. tin Luther King, Jr,” Buyck is the BiiminghamJail.” Dr.HarlanBeckley,    

S0rr1eWhere along the Way, he re’ governor and founder of the Na- Rev. Andrea Comett—Scott and Pas- L *1

Calls gettlhg tegether Wlth Serhe efhls tional College of Complimentary tor LaVert H. Taylor led the discus-

friends frerh W&L days, all Ahlearr Medicine and Sciences Inc sion Beckley is aprofessor at Wash-  5    7 

. ’ - ' : m — 9: 00 m

Arherleah lhales he leeallsa ahd What (NCCMS) in Washington, D.C. ington and Lee. Comett—Scott is the V ( ( P P -

happehed Was, a5 Pehh eharaeterlzed Monday, the following day, was Director of African American Affairs .
ltr a Whlhlhg ahd rheahlhg 5e5Sl0h- He the day King’s birthday is nation- and Pastor of Christ Our Redeemer I
rerherrllleratellllhgdthehl tllllat lf {he}; ally observed, for which Professor Church in Staunton, and Taylor is DOLLY HARDEE TURMAN MEETING ROOM ‘ ‘ ‘ht
Wereh gelhg 0 0 ahyt lhg a 0“ Roger Wilkins spoke at the Memo— Pastor at the First Baptist Church of PRESTON LIBRARY 4

the preblerhs they remembered hem rial Address. Wilkins won a Pulitzer Lexington. The discussion of King’s

W&L, then the)‘ Shehld keep q'~llet- He Prize in 1972 for his Watergate cov— letter from the Birmingham Jail is THE VIRGINIA MILITARY INSTITUTE

th011ghtr10thlr1g rhere Otlt fer a Whlle» erage, and is currently the Clarence sponsored by the Minority Student LEXINGTON» VIRGINIA I
but then heard aheht a J05 Veeahey J. Robinson Professor of History and Association and the Associate
tl1:an‘ll)earr(l)‘}11’tiS\l:feLn:;’lneagplfndétnr American Culture at George Mason Dean of Students. DON ’T MISS THIS OPPOR TUNITY TO VISIT WI TH_
so as A   it as   ‘£2;3$:i:‘i;,5.“ElZ:§Z.iiZt‘e}‘h‘;°£é’,§’§.‘3 P....:::::: 2.1:: .‘:.::?.;::::::.3 JOHN O  OEOROE M BROOKE»  FLOYD H- OONOOV» A
lhte Payhe Hall ington Post, and in addition has “our goal was to provide people with JOHN G’ LELAND’ B‘ DAVID MANN’ AND SPENCER,C' TUCKER‘
Pehh Says he has fehr thlhgs served as Assistant Attorney Gen— three different perspectives — aca-

hetd llke t0 See happeh lh the hext teh eral, chair of the Board of Trustees demic, religious, and spiritual — from
Years at W&L-P Nllrhher ehea he 5aY3a of the Africa America Institute, and which to examine and celebrate
l3 t0 ehehre that the Vast rhalerlty of is a member of the Board of the King’s legacy.”

our traditions are retained and cher— NAACP Legal Defense Fund. The
ished, because he thinks that the at-

mosphere at this school is “unique

 

and something special.” With that ALSOS, FROM PAGE 1 from many perspectives.E Its goal AMPLE OPPORTUNITIES FOR AUDIENCE PARTICIPATION. ‘

said three things Penn would like to . . IS to pmvlde references f0r.the

Sen hnnnnn nnn W&L becoming n 1ty'due to support from the National study of the Manhattan Project AUTOGRAPHED COPIES OF BOOKS AVAILABLE FOR» PURCHASE.

more diverse nnnnnnnn in nvn nn Science Foundation. The NSF pro- and its consequences to a broad A , , . i

S net not .nSt racial] nyr no gyhn vided the original startup grant of audience.[l The materials refer-

ngnyf Stndlnnts nngnnzlng §nn§rn?iS_ $224,000in2000, enabling the site to enced include books, articles,

Suns ihnt wnlbn nfnnnnnnnnnin the go online in 2002. An additional videos, and Web sites.DThe li— D0N9T  THIS  AND TIMELY PRESENTATION‘;

215, nnnnny_ and nnnnnty Students grant of $300,000 was made last Sep- brary strengthens the quality of

who attend Zn have nnnndnd Wnsh_ tember. education by connecting differ-

in ton and Len bnnnrnin nssinnntn Due to its extensive funding ent disciplines, issues, and ideas ,

nbgnnt the School and nngntng jnst as from the NSF, the Alsos website involving nuclear issues as well AMPLE FREE PARKING I

much about it as other W&L students has become In. imegrill part Cifthe a.S rollidlng. restiurces f.Or Sp?-

and alumni. He stresses that he does NSF. S $4°.’;“ll‘°“ Na“°““l 3°““'“°‘°' °‘t‘° ‘l‘5°‘§l‘“°S-‘e .Tl“°' ‘“fe’;‘“g O REFRESHMENTS WILL BE SERVED

not Seek drastic change, just Small Digital Li rary, a collection, of system an searching too s a- *****

nvnlnnnns to make this a more rn_ Web sites similar to Alsos cover— cilitate the exploration of these 1

S nntnd more inclusive and n11_ ing a vast range of scientific top- materials for general readers and FOR INFORMATION: CONTACT PRESTON LIBRARY

p ’ ics designed to cater to the needs specialists alike. EA clear, intui- THE VIRGINIA MILITARY INSTITUTE
around better School’ of t dent nd teach f l tiv rint rfa eall sthe user
While he’s not busy being S.ut S: It egg Eon: en‘ t 6118.6 t in in 0“;

dean, Penn spends his time at home .emen ary SC 00 0 gm ua e S u _ 0 navlga e e I rary' . . Phone: (540) 464-7228/Web Page: www.vmiaa.org/fpl.html ,

ies. In the future, the Alsos site

in Roanoke with his wife, Angela,
and his three-and-a-half—year old
son, Thomas. There’s also another
child on the way; although Penn
does not yet know whether it’s a
boy or a girl, he confessed that
Angela really wants a girl. When
asked how he feels about the rela-

Alsos maintains a high stan— hopes to intergrate an auxiliary Web
dard of quality, stating on-site, site, “Nuclear Connections,”which
that “The library integrates in— will be a faculty resource for teach-
dexed references into a struc- ers and professors who are address- st
tured collection that allows us- ing nuclear issues in all educational
ers to examine nuclear issues levels.

   

 
    

every long commue everyday, ASSISTANT ALUMNI DIRECTOR _
Penn has no complaints. He says _
he finds the drive relaxing, and it FOR ON LINE COMMUNICATIONS
gives him time to decompress and
spend some time with himself, away   M O N   -
hem lt all who knew?» Perhaps , The Washington and Lee Alumni Office announces the opening for the position of Assistant I
fIEI§elSeC:I1?i}gSinagS iliiatos tIii::a(sIiiiE I WI  pay  for you r phone book Alumni Director for On-Line Communications. Responsibilities include: oversight of “Colonnade
Set’ h 6,11 hit upon the next big idea  Lee Ramsey  free 1  Connections,” W&L’s Alumni On-Line Community, maintaining and updating that service’s
for Washington and Lee‘ design, and utilizing its “blast” email capabilities in communicating with the entire alumni popula- I
This is the first article in a series , tion.(or segments thereof); serve as liaison to the on-line community provider (including partici-
which will feature in-depth in ter- pating in conferences) and other campus web users; design and maintain Alumni Office
21112:?” lgtznidgnﬁéiﬁgrs at Wash‘ . - homepages and websites working closely with the Communications department; assist with
. ’ creating content for Alumni homepage; assist Career Services with their homepage and website it -
V - V - . V A design; serve as advisor and secretary to Kathekon, W&L’s Student Alunmi Association; answer f
.....................................  t‘?‘.‘.’"._ W’ “ti... ii".  l__"’."'.flF'?'.‘.. _‘°t,....'.'.t‘l??i.’_‘§‘_'_'_i.‘___.l.°j_l‘_'i. ll.l5.’fl7‘Fli?§l_l_lt'li___.._.___‘. .   __  . . requests for alumni lists and research projects; compose obituaries for the alumni magazine;
The ans Sc-hoe; pf Busing“ create the 25th reunion Calyx; aid in general alumni office planning for homecoming, reunion and
at 133.5 uni-cg;-pity of callfurntae Berkeley alumni chapter events. Travel involved. .1‘
Intensive BASE Sumrner Program 15 FORYGUE
July 7 or August I 5,. 1903 The position will become available June 15, 2003, and preference will be given to W&L alumni
Learn the fundamental; of; - and 2003 degree candidates. All candidates for this position should submit a cover letter and .
r ﬁttuinunting - l‘-ierkeging resume nolater than Friday, February 7, 2003. All materials should be sent to: '
—- Finance ' Orpnizatinatai Behavior ‘
O Hands-on market Si finaztcial research Rob Mish
- Tm building Director of Alumni Programs
=* Effective communication 3: presentation skiifs . A1umnjOfﬁoe ‘I
4- Preparing for -the cnrpnriam mcruiting, process Washington and Lee University
A.r1:s.Sctanca§-sand Engineering students will benefit fmm tzhti rigumus. ‘six-waalt Lexingtoni VA 24450 1
. summer cm-rtcxilum that will iiicludo Iamtmsuciasa studies.-company visits. gust: EMAILI rrr11Sh@Wh1-ed“ t.
 speahraars and ongoing interaction with students from over it) of the  uni» TEL; 540-458-8464
Vmlttss at the WWW» » FAX: 540-458-8473
For more lniotrnxatlnmvisit our website at!
haas.herkeIey.adu!1Indergraii ‘l

__,“_,_ _,,,,,,...,,........_....,..._, _,.4 ..._... in _,_

 

PINIONS

0 THE lil.:‘\i(}~TUtvfi iii-il
I
MONDAY, JANUARY 27, 2005

ii II-R? PHI
STAFF EDITORIAL

Lip Synch has limits

Nearly fifty years ago, U.S. Supreme
Court Justice William J. Brennan famously
wrote that sex and obscenity are not
synoymous.

Nonetheless, the acts by Kappa Sigma and
Phi Delta Theta at Friday’s Lip Synch com-
petition would have left no doubt even with
prickly Justice Brennan due to their sheer
lewdness, suggestive nature and downright
vulgarity.

According to Brennan’s opinion in Roth
v. United States, obscenity has a tendency to
excite lustful thoughts. Kappa Sigma, exceed-
ing even the pornography salesman charged
in that case, began the evening with an‘ inter-
pretation of Meatloaf that degenerated into
bestiality and graphic representations of sex
acts involving fruit.

Phi Delta Theta, unbelievably, was able
to outdo its predecessors by demonstrating ho-
mosexual sex, oral sex, group sex and mas-
ochism. One wonders how proud the pledges
will be thirty years from now when their gross
display is still captured on videotape.

The rules of the Lip Synch competition
speciﬁcally forbade obscene and vulgar acts.
Although the organizers failed to outline ex-
actly what was and was not acceptable, stu-
dents bright enough to attend Washington and

J Lee are certainly intelligent enough to demar-
cate limits for themselves. Every other act
abided by this distinction.

We wish the organizers of the contest had
had the courage to defend what standards Lip
Synch has and had pulled these two offending

I acts off the stage. These two juvenile expres-
sions of vulgarity should have been stopped
immediately because when they were allowed
to proceed, they disgraced the charitable pur-
pose of Lip Synch and insulted all the groups
that had planned and practiced creative, ap-
pealing, appropriate acts.

Again this year, Lip Synch was a fun event
that brought together the student body in sup-
port of a worthy cause. We herald the orga-
nizers and volunteers whose effort and dedi-

on Kappa Sigma and Phi Delta Theta for so
tarnishing an otherwise excellent evening.
Their behavior only gives credence to those
voices that criticize fraternities for degrading
our fair University.

cation made thecompetition asuccess. Shame 1‘ 4.

te of the Week

“As far as we are concerned, war always
means failure and therefore everything must
be done to avoid war.”

~French President Jacques Chirac



Editor in chief Katie J. Howell
Opinions Editor BrettT.Kirwan
Arts & Life Editor Catherine C. Guy

Photo Editor Jeff Gil Brooks
Sports Editor Erin Julius
Asst. News Editor CaleyAnderson

Photographers Tallie Jamison
CodyGabbard

Copy Editor Donny Banks

Business Manager Paul Seifert
Asst. Business Manager Thomas Worthy
Circulation Director Henry Grimball
Advertising Assistant McQueen Calvert"

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee Univer-
sity, Lexington, Virginia. The Washington and Lee Publi-
cations Board elects the Editor in chief, but The Ring-tum
Phi is otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible submis-
sions and letters. All submissions must be e-mailed to
phi@wlu.edu or in the University Center mailbox by 5
p.m. Friday to appear in the following week’s edition. The
Ring-tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for con-
tent and length. Letters and columns do not necessarily
reﬂect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Ad-
vertising does not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi
or its staff. This newspaper observes current court deﬁni-
tions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Mailing Address: University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Street Address." 31 Washington Street
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Fax: (540) 462-4059
Email: phi@wlu.edu
http://phi.wlu.edu

OPINIONS EDITOR
EMAIL: KIRWANB@WLU.EDU

Abortion kills ch

Last Wednesday was the 30th
anniversary of the Roe v. Wade deci-
sion, that, in an astonishing power
grab by the Supreme Court, overthrew
the abortion laws of our nation. Ig-
noring its lack jurisdiction and discov-
ering a previously unknown “right to
privacy” the court fulﬁlled liberals’
dreams by making infanticide legal.

Abortion’s politics are discussed
elsewhere on this page, but this day
of death truly calls us not to remem-
ber battles won and lost in the courts,
butlto memorialize the millions of chil-
dren that have been murdered since
this horrific practice was legalized
nationwide and decry the barbaric
practices used to snuff these lights
of humanity before they ever had a
chance to shine.

Most estimates place the num-
ber of deaths by abortion around 42
million. Even today, although the
number of abortions has been declin-
ing for 10 years, nearly one out of
every four babies is murdered in the
womb. Terribly, this scourge hits mi-
nority populations especially hard.
Almost l3 million of the murdered
children were black.

Somewhat unsurprisingly, a de-
scription of common abortion tech-
niques brings into macabre color the
murderous aspect of the practice and
shockingly dissuades doubters that
fetuses are indeed living humans no
less deserving of life than we are.

Suction and Aspiration: A
vacuum is inserted in the uterus and
the fetus is sucked out. Since the child
must be detached from the wall of the
womb the suction tube has a sharp
end used to cut and

the haw ’ Rm
BRE_T_I_T. KIRWA/\'_j0/I

Dilation and
Curettage: A loop-
shaped knife is used
to chop the child still in the womb
before the pieces are removed.

Dilation and Evacuation: Sa-
line solution is injected into the womb
to kill the child. Labor, which is un-
usually painful, is induced using Pros-
taglandin so thernothermgives birth to

' a" dead baby. i H  "

- Partial—birth Abortion: Alter us-
ing ultrasound to locate the child’s legs,
calipers are used to deliver the child up
to the head. Then, scissors are inserted
into the skull and the child’s brain is
torn out. The head collapses and the
now dead child is delivered completely.
This procedure is usually performed on
fully-developed children and is legal
throughout all three trimesters.

Pro—lifers look to save Constitution

It’s not on any calendar I’ve ever
seen, but January 22 marks a truly ma-
cabre holiday for some political activ-
ists. Roe v. Wade, the holiest of grails
for liberals and their ilk, became the law
of the land on that day in 1973. What
has devolved from the pro—abortion
forces’ initial glee is an annual “celebra-
tion” of women’s “right to privacy.”

Whether or not abortion should be
legal or illegal is one question. Whether
or not the Supreme Court should be
making that decision is another. The
court, governing by judicial ﬁat in 1973,
substituted its opinion of what public
policy should be for what the legisla-
tive branch of government said public
policy will be.

The court added insult to injury
years later by refusing to reverse itself.
In Planned Parenthood v. Casey, the jus-
tices as much as admitted that Roe was,
at best, questionable, but they declined
to overturn it, citing “stare decisis,” a
legal term which calls on courts to stand
by precedent, even if they disagree with
it. If the court had applied the same logic
to Brown vs. Board of Education in the
1950s, Plessy v. Ferguson would never
have been overturned and the schools
would still be segregated. The court can’t

“1 e Phi.
-Drew Davenport ‘06

"Theta Ghetto Girl andPE’s

jkli Bllooks ekmg-izmz P. I

Surzvrvorrs. On Wednesday, adopted children rallied for life at the County Courthouse.

What is purpose of these cruel,
grisly practices that leave babies shred-
ded? Is it convenience, freedom, an es-
cape from irresponsibility? As National
Public Radio contributor Frederica
Mathews-Green noted, abortion was
heralded as bringing freedom to women
and praised as a recognition that
women would no
longer be forced to
shoulder unwanted
pregnancy. But before
abortion was com-
monplace, a women who became preg-
nant accidentally had a support network
including parents, friends, the father, the
church and her neighborhood. Now, a
woman is expected to go and take care
of the “problem” herself. Abortion has
not liberated women, but made them

’ suffer difficult pregnairicgievs alone.

Moreover, , abortion
transmogrifies what should be the
truest expression of love~that be-
tween a woman and her child. Abor-
tion has transformed them into en-
emies, each fighting for his rights.
Children are not a disease that can
be cut from the body like a cancer,
but the National Abortion and Repro-
ductive Rights Action League

even decide if it’s precedent to follow
precedent.

But the court of public opinion is
beginning to diverge from the highest
court in the land. Arecent survey by ABC
News and The Washington Post showed
that just 54 percent of people surveyed
agreed in whole or in
part with the Supreme   
Court’s ruling in Roe.  '
That’s down from 65 if
percent just 10 years
ago. You don’t have to be a math major
to see which way that statistic is trend-
ing. Additionally, most of the people sur-
veyed displayed a desire for the govem-
ment to make it harder for women to get
an abortion— regardless of whether they
thought it should be legal or not.

With the current trend of protect-
abortion-at—all costs, the support for
abortion will probably erode even fur-
ther. In many states, frenzied lobbying
on behalf of the liberal left has lirnited—
or outright restricted—parental—notiﬁ-
cation laws. In these instances, the
strange reality exists that a minor has to
get permission from her parents if she
wants to get an aspirin at school, but
not if she wants to end her pregnancy.
How many parents will be able to stom-

act. It was adorable.”
-Jessica Lloyd ‘06


OHN H- HEAT.Iﬂl4_

‘The Ace ofBase medley
rockedthehouse.”
—Nazo Burgy ‘O6

(NARAL) and the National Organi-
zation for Women have taught women
to hate themselves and their off-
spring with their message of abor-
tion-on-demand.

In addition, today, supposedly all
the children born are “wanted” chil-
dren. If this is so, why has the rate of
child abuse catapulted in the last 30
years? Is it perhaps because children
are no longer gifts from God to be cher-
ished and protected, but are mere
“choices” delivered at the whim of
mothers. How does one explain to a
four or ﬁve—year-old who looks almost
identical to an aborted fetus that they
are human but the dead baby is a life-
less lump of cells that can be killed?

This is not to mention the health
risks to women who undergo abor-

' V tions. Complicated future pregnancies

and an increased risk of breast cancer
are just the start.

Congratulations go to Patricia
Heaton of Everybody Loves Raymond
who spoke on Wednesday saying that
abortion means we have failed women.
When 1.5 million abortions occur each
year, we truly have failed and not only
women, but children, fathers and life
itself.

ach this reality, even if they support
abortion rights generally?

The ironic part of the abortion de-
bate is that the same people, liberals,
who so vehemently defend the right to
abort as implicit in the “penumbra” of
the Constitution (penumbra, the aura
around an eclipse,
that is) rage against
other constitutionally
protected actions.
These same people
who defend abortion oppose the right
to own ﬁrearms, a right which doesn’t
require “penumbras” to be clearly ex-
pressed in the Bill of Rights. The gos-
pel according to the liberals seems that
implicit Constitutional rights are defen-
sible, but explicit Constitutional rights
are not worth defending.

Are there times, such as when the
mother’s life is at stake, when abortion
should be allowed? Perhaps. That
would be a great debate for our legisla-
tive bodies, and a policy area in which
our elected ofﬁcials could really show
their mettle and make a difference. Un-
fortunately, it’s a debate that our elected
representatives won’t have, because on
January 22, 1973, nine old men in Wash-
ington, DC had it for us.

“KD’s ical Jackson.”

-Shane Newhouser ‘06

PAGE 5

Safe Place follows
tradition of W&L

This past week’s Trident had two very notewor-
thy pieces, neither of which were actually written by a
member of the staff itself. The first of these two items
was the reprint of the Phi s editorial from April of 1968.
The second was another letter from alumnus David
Keeling ’73.

I have strayed from this editorial chess match, until
now. Mr. Keeling, your king will fall.

I am eager to know if Keeling read the afore-
mentioned staff editorial from the week of Martin
Luther King’s assassination. The piece points out
that just seven years before King’s death, the
University’s Board
of Trustees refused
to allow Dr. King to
speak on the Wash-
ington and Lee
campus. The point made by the Phi staff was that,
following this decision, the memorial held for King ,
just above the remains of the deceased Confeder-
ate general, was greatly signiﬁcant.

This was a moment of change in the university’s
history. In fact, the situation of today is quite similar.
Here, we have an alumnus upset because Safe Place is
on campus and he was not informed.

But, what is so horrible about an organization
that provides counseling to teens and young adults
dealing with issues ranging from suicide, eating dis-
orders, sexual identity, etc.? This is an organization
that helps protect people... to keep them safe. I be-
lieve that message is in the title of the organization.

Yes, Safe Place helps youth dealing with ho-
mosexuality. Such a thing does have a place on
General Lee’s campus. Just as the elders of the
Washington and Lee society were wrong in keep-
ing Dr. King from speaking on campus in 196] , they
are wrong now in 2003 by trying to keep Safe Place
off this campus.

Statistically speaking, it is damn near impossible
that there would be no homosexual students on this
campus. Just as it is also preposterous to think that
there were no homosexual students on campus during
Keeling’s years at Washington and Lee.

What is Keeling’s counter to this argument?
“And yes, American society has changed since the
days of Washington and Lee, but the Christian faith
has not.”

However, in the Old Testament, the recognized
point would be the tale of Sodom and Gomorrah. The
language used in the Bible is that the inhabitants of the
town wanted the strangers brought out so they may
“know” them. Tracing the language back to its original
'translati'o/n‘, there is no conclusive evidence to say that
these people wereanything more than curious as to
whom these people were.

Furthermore, according to the Bible, the inhab-
itants of Sodom and Gomorrah were wicked. This
could mean almost anything. There are many reli-
gious scholars, members of the clergy and rabbis
who believe the sin of the people of Sodom and
Gomorrah was being inhospitable.

As for the New Testament; what did Jesus have
to say about homosexuality? Check the red print in
your leather-bound book. Jesus said nothing about
homosexuality. Nothing. He only taught love and
acceptance. That seems to have a place in this dis-
cussion.

Another argument made by Keeling is that sod-
omy is a crime in Virginia. On this campus, heterosexu-
als engage in “sodomy” much more than same—sex
couples do.

So, Mr. Keeling, if you have grievances with how
Washington Hall communicates with the alumni of the
school, take it to them. Do not come after students
such as Kelly Jo Larsen, the members of GSA (which
includes myself) or those responsible for Safe Place.
These students are only trying to promote an environ-
ment of tolerance and mutual respect among different
students.‘

This is not Bob Jones University. Lee and Wash-
ington were wonderful Christian men. However, this is
not a Christian university. Also, using religion for this
argument is a shaky foundation in itself.

As for Keeling’s claim that Safe Place “show(s)
how the liberal agenda has brought shame to W&L, a
smear on its good character,” is it not the idea of a
liberal arts education to bring together people of all
different sorts to expand their minds in many disci-
plines? Organizations like Safe Place only try to ensure
that all students can walk this campus with their heads
held high, being honorable and honest about the people
they really are.

Apparently, the administration was correct to

LEFT OF CENTER 
NICK RAMSEY ‘O3

fear the reactions of certain alumni. Keeling illus-

trates that there exists among them, those whose
narrow-minded View see Safe Place as something
smearing this great school’s character. How sad for
you, Mr. Keeling.

“It was an amazin first

W&L experience.”
-Vicky Sprow ‘O6 Harvard

   

 

PAGE 4

Bush not consistent
on afﬁrrnative action

President Bush’s stance on affir-
mative action at the University of
Michigan represents a very narrow-
minded opinion that ignores potential
consequences. By labeling Michigan’s
policies as simply “unconstitutional,”
Bush has proscribed
a simple solution to
an issue that is not
so simple. Although
no bastion of sup-
port for afﬁrrnative action and diver-
sity-enhancing initiatives, I question
some of the implications of policy that
could potentially stem from the Bush
Administration’s brief.

At the University of Michigan, a
150 point “selection index” deter-
mines whether students will get an
offer of admission. One hundred
points usually is sufﬁcient to gain ad-
mission. In order to increase ethnic
diversity, Michigan gives a 20 point
bonus to blacks, Hispanics and
American Indians.

Conservatives like President
Bush hold that equality for all Ameri-
cans means selection based on quali-
ﬁcations. But, people like Bush, Al
Gore and many others beneﬁted from
afﬁrrnative action themselves. Be-
cause this type of afﬁnnative action
is called the “legacy preference,”
however, it seems to be more accept-
able to the President. In the Univer-
sity of Michigan selection index, four
points are given to those who have
had a family member attend the
school. Most likely, legacies with
qualiﬁcations (and educational oppor-
tunities) similar to these applicants
who now argue before the Supreme
Court took the slots to which these
applicants lay claim. For example, the
University of Virginia (another state
institution), accepts 52 percent of lega-
cies, but only 36 percent of other ap-
plicants. Why doesn’t the Bush Ad-
ministration denounce this practice in
the interest of consistency? Based

 
 

upon Bush’s doctrine of judging ev-
erything based on qualiﬁcations, he
should also be opposed to the legacy
preference, which would have left him
and his relatively mediocre SAT
scores out of Yale. Sen. John Edwards

__~ correctly de-

COMMON SENSE munced the

‘ “legacy preference”

 as  birthright out
of 18"‘ century aris-

tocracy, not 215‘ century American de-

mocracy.”

Other kinds of diversity would
also be impacted if the Bush principle
were upheld. Any school would be a
very boring place if everyone there
were from the same city. Thus, quali-
ﬁcations must be taken into account
with other factors to arrive at a class
that will spread the University’s
teaching across the country and the
world after graduation. Universities
beneﬁt when graduates take leader-
ship positions in their respective
countries. Thus, geographic diversity
is vital to making a university an in-
teresting, diverse place that produces
leaders in the various disciplines and
locations.

The Bush Administration’s com-
ments, unfortunately, could have sig-
niﬁcant ramiﬁcations. The legacy pref-
erence is a perfectly acceptable prac-
tice that allows universities to main-
tain alumni donations and build upon
tradition. Likewise, careﬁilly plarmed
affirmative action plans (like
Michigan’s) are perfectly acceptable
plans to increase diversity and extend
opportunities to those who have not
been so fortunate. Both practices help
make American colleges and univer-
sities the envy of the world, and I think
both should continue. But, if the Bush
Administration wrongly sees the Uni-
versity of Michigan system as uncon-
stitutional, then it should be consis-
tent in advocating solely qualiﬁca-
tions-based admissions practices.



Bush: Resolve
North Korea ﬁrst

Our foreign policy at the current moment seems,
to me, a bit confused. As the tone of the United States-
Iraq conﬂict becomes more and more tense, one can-
not help but think of the more severe problems that
await American attention on the Korean peninsula.

Think of the amazing polarity of the differences
between the two rogue states. We suspect Iraq of
possession of nuclear, biological and chemical weap-
ons, yet have nothing but circumstantial evidence to
hand to the rest of the world as yet. North Korea, on
the other hand, admits that it has several working
nuclear weapons, and in truth ﬂaunts this fact in open
deﬁance of United Nations resolutions, international
treaties and repeated warnings from the Western coun-
tries.

Iraq poses no serious threat to its neighbors at
the moment; United States conventional forces in the
area (even prior to the large military buildup) would
have been sufficient to prevent a repetition of
Hussein’s invasion of Kuwait, or any other Middle
Eastern neighbor. Additionally, Hussein knows the
severe consequences he would suffer if he began more
open hostilities- a deﬁnite removal from power, and a
most-likely permanent regime change in the Iraqi gov-
emment.

North Korea, though it shares
one of the smallest borders on the
planet with its southern, democratic
neighbor, keeps that border the most
heavily guarded one in existence (and
vice versa). North Korea has a signiﬁcant, though
slightly antiquated military force that could most likely
overpower South Korea’s conventional forces and
present a situation very similar to that of the late 1940s
and early 1950s at the start of the Korean War. Addi-
tionally, North Korea poses a conﬁrmed nuclear threat
to South Korea, Russia, Mongolia, Japan, Thailand,
and Suriname. It is overwhelmingly unlikely that Iraq
has such potential.

Thus, I ﬁnd it mind-boggling that the current
Presidential administration is choosing to deal with
the Iraq problem ﬁrst. I can think of no logical motiva-
tion for doing so. The ofﬁcial explanation from Presi-
dent Bush is that “diplomacy” is still a viable option
in North Korea, whereas “all diplomatic resources
have been exhausted” in Iraq.

Frankly, I don’t recall any ofﬁcial visit by any
important U.S. State Department ﬁgure to Iraq to see
if a mutually-acceptable compromise could be reached.
All I remember is the United States collaborating with

 
 

Watkins.

An Open Letter to the Washington and Lee Community

The S.A.R.A.H. Committee would like to express our gratitude and
appreciation to the Students, Faculty, Staff and Administration who par-
ticipated in one way or another with the 2003 Lip Synch competition. We '
start with all of the wonderful attendees of the event, the spectacular
participants, and of course our great judges: Liz Brown, Professor Ted
DeLaney, Dan Grattan, Curtis Matthews, Trey Packard, and Dean Dawn

Our long list continues. We also extend our many thanks to the

 

Body image support group begins

A support group sponsored by the University



W&L to host desegregation conference

In 1953, the U.S. Supreme Court announced it
would take on the legality of segregated public
schools—shocking .blacks and whites alike as
they wrestled their emotions and fears for their I --
children with the ideal and the realities of equality.

The court’s landmark Brown v. Board of Edu-
cation ruling was a Civil Rights milestone—and
the launch pad of a legacy so troubled and con-

DANGEROUS. Kimjong I1 is a greater threat than Hussein.

its allies within the United Nations to buildup support
for a United Nations declaration that was effectively
an ultimatum to Iraq, which, thankfully, they have com-
plied with to a sufﬁcient degree.

Yet we keep on sending diplomat after diplomat
to Pyongyang and to Kim Jong II, whose propagan-
dist epithets against the U.S. (“die in a rain of ﬁre”)
sound not at all different from Saddam Hussein’s.
The only real justiﬁable explanation I can think ofis

that Hussein is by far the more deplor-

MQDERATE’S MUSIVNGS able leader in terms of human rights.

This is a man who has strapped babies
to tanks in order to cause opposing sol-
diers to think twice about firing on
them, after all.

Kim has done nothing of quite that degree,
though his human rights slate is clear by no means.
Yet the Bush administration has not presented this
reasoning as an explanation. I certainly hope that there
is a justiﬁable explanation that I don’t know about,
and not just the one proposed by some who are
slightly more liberal than I: The Democratic People’s
Republic of Korea does not export anything terribly
rare or valuable, whereas Iraq has a signiﬁcant amount
of oil, oil that is controlled by an unfriendly source at
the moment. Some would argue that President Bush
is willing to sacriﬁce American lives for a more favor-
able oil and economic position, but I’m not willing to
be so cynical. ...yet.

It is my hope that President Bush and his staff
realize the futility of attacking Iraq before silencing
the belligerency of North Korea, or at least provide a
more tangible reason for proceeding with the current
order of things. Lives depend upon it.

MONDAY, IANUARY 27, 2005;:

i

Birthdays
come but
once a
year".

K

‘,

_QOOOOOOOOIOC.OOOOOOOO_OOO
1‘

‘V

21 comes
but nce!

*4

Q‘

  

‘V

a  
Birtlﬁgzy,

Koteguy!

‘ ,

We love
you!
kill: bl“:
€€J  Jgb

ai

I

‘<4Qy_'_I_{,:._O_r_Dv.,-_O‘OOOOOOQ,OOOOOOO<O'Q'O'O.COCO-O.IO_OOO_OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO

ﬁe

This winter, joined by Patterson, Washingtorlj

and Lee University will open the nation’s 50"‘ anni-*1
versary debate on the impact—and continuing con;-L,
troversy—surrounding the court’s landmark deseg-
regation ruling on American society.’
Washington and Lee uniquely lays claim to en-
rolling in 1795 the ﬁrst black American college stu-
dent, John Chavis, as well as graduating the attor-
ney, John W. Davis, who argued against desegre-
gation on South Carolina’s behalf in Brown.

Counseling Service will being meeting weekly for
women who are dealing with body image/disordered
eating, and/or compulsive exercise. If you are fac-
ing any of these problems in your daily life, you are
invited to join this conﬁdential group which meets
weekly. Each member will sign an agreement of con-
ﬁdentiality at the ﬁrst meeting. Please call Carol
Calkins at x8590 or e-mail ccalkins@wlu.edu to learn
the startup date, time, and location.

tentious that The New York Times recently head-
lined a piece examining it “American Apartheid.”

That 2001 headline prefaced the Times ’review
of renowned historian James T. Patterson’s ac-
claimed book examining the hopes — and failures -
that the Brown decision wrought and continues
to bring, with the Supreme Court deciding this
spring whether race is an acceptable consideration
in college admissions.

The March 20-21 conference, named in honor
of Chavis, the W&L alumnus and ﬁrst college edu-
cated African-American in U.S. history, features
speakers including Patterson, William A. Darity Jr.,
Michael Klarrnan, Daryl Scott, Constance Curry
and Kara Miles-Tumer. u

“Brown V. Board of Education: A Fifty Year
Retrospective,” will include faculty participants and
signiﬁcant participation from W&L’s 2,160 students.

Physical Plant Teams, Publications, Dining Services, The President’s
Office, The Dean of Students Office, Security, the Journalism and Mass
Communications Department, Professor Bob De Maria, Laurie Lipscomb,
The Morris House, The Lee House, and the Washington and Lee Alumni
Association. As any outsider would observe, it is amazing how the entire
W&L Community jointly reaches out to help with this worthy cause--
”Students Against Rockbridge Area Hunger.”

Without the aforementioned groups and individuals plus the unbe-
lievable assistance and support from the IF C, Panhellenic, and all of the
W&L fraternities and sororities this would not be the success that it is. ,

When the dust settles, and all of our bills are paid, we will quickly
inform you of the exact number of tons of food we were able to purchase
for Rockbridge area residnets, due to your support and generosity.

Lastly, but certainly not least, we would also like to thank The Tri-
dent and The Ring-tum Phi for the pre-event publicity. This greatly helps
with the student turnout at Lip Synch. Again, we thank all of you, and we
look forward to a successful Lip Synch 2004.

“Siham-ralessly entertaining” — Washington Post,
If you think you don’t  Shakespeare,
you hairen’t been to Blackfriars.

 
   

Sincerely Yours,      W
Wes McRae ‘O3--S.A.R.A.H. President 3} g '

Ansel sanders ‘04--S,A_R,A,H_ vice President We do it with the Iignte on so that audience me-mbens can see the actors.

Thomas Worthy ‘05--S.A.R.A.H. Secretary our beauttfui theater. and Eaﬁh Qmef»

John T’ Taffe"S'A"R'A'H'AdvlS°r The shows last about two hours. and you don"! need to dress up. n

K W'hat-avsryoo buy at our bar‘. 310%} can bring into the theater.
6 _ 510 student melt tickets are available an hour before moot shows.
a . .. . Shenandoah Shakes‘ re has been on stage for 14 years ‘I
. E - > _ and performed in - ‘I states and Eve foreign countries.
.   Since ‘September 2001. when we opened Blackfﬁars Playhouse —
P . J the wands only recreation of Shakes . are‘:-i indoor theater — n
_ ’  - more than 50.000 people (from 49 states have oome- to the show.
. __ °%Pl’l9l“°."x1 and NUW.5 the time £01.03” the am at
- P,,.,$l?p,g;Y, ,‘.,:,::,::’§Iuﬁm,vg,l?don£by- ' V ll I-‘rn.rtt':_is Beaiittiont s ' _
, m_ec. means se scipne..._   - - H I . g _ --
m1;{;f§§g§;gg;;ef;§;$;g;f$§segd%;3r°§jr;;,c;g;§6gling » . The t   Burnlﬂg PeSﬂe , .
.""‘°""°“ °'“l"“°",.,',‘,‘,°,§,“‘,§‘;,§',?.;,‘f;,‘_""‘°“‘ °”“"’°* by’ lraiagliie .E»Ioim::' and Margie F»:l.mpsnla buying 't‘|ckets- to a Cllafﬁliilti play. ,_
, Wemme ,0, ciinibing. on s‘tr1.gr: lt‘i’lE.El Bart. and trying to trim it into "‘l.r1tliana Joana "
. g " ‘ y — The Knight of the Hlrmlrrg Poetic la 3 rolltclrlrrg ou:itnerl.y..
     ‘.‘S°CR.ATES CAFE”

-- A nroderaled,  fommyfortliegdiséirision of ideas ' p  _ ' I

The show opens liriday. Jan. 3!, at 7:30 pm... i r
fol owetl try a reception with the actors

_ it runs tttmtrgii March 29 and again this summer

7:30 pm. Thurs:day,iI*‘Aebruas'y Cth. v — _ _ _ I“
  I www.shenandoahshakespearemom
540.885.5588

10 South Market Street staunton. VA

beside the new parking garage in award-winning downtown

-A place where the only answer is the  question 

]> --For people who want to bring questions of their own-
and leave with more questiom than they brought.

’ ..LEXINGTON co1n'~'an_srror _ —

/ )0 2,  ,9w.wAsrinvcroNs1mi ’

:3

 

Q

 

  

LATIIERINE C. GUY
AKIS & LIFE EDITOR
EMAIL: GUYC@WLU.EDU

IVIONDAY, JANUARY 27, 2003

BY HAYNES KING
TRAVEL CORRESPONDENT

I This week’s trip destination: the Natural Bridge
Wax Museum. I am not sure where I should even
start with this overdone tourist trap. I have to say
that I am glad that I can now tell people that I’ve
actually been there, but I’m even prouder to say that

‘I did not have to waste my money on the visit.
Thanks Ring-tum Phi.

If you are looking for a history lesson somewhere
other than in a book, then the Wax Museum will cover
'ust about every period of history you can possibly
imagine. Beginning with the “Garden of Eden” and
going up to the “War Between the States,” the Natural
Bridge Wax Museum provides life-like ﬁgures of those
who lived through and participated in all these

Vsituations and more.

The only problem with this scenario is just how life-like
they actually are. I’m trying to find a more literary word, but
the only thing I can come up with is “creepy.” That’s right;
I was thouroughly creeped out throughout the entire tour.
While turning a comer to move on to the next educational
scene, I was quite shocked to see two other fellow tourists
standing at the railing, apparently enjoying the wax creations.
However, to my surprise, upon closer inspection I discovered

htliat these two tourists were simply another part of the exhibit.
Iwasn’t sure whether I wanted to keep on with the tour or

H turn around and sprint out of the building. I waited nearly

’ five minutes before deciding the two men were deﬁnitely
héjrmless wax ﬁgures themselves. While this reaction is clearly
what the creators wanted, I do not think they had intended to
impart the uncomfortable and uneasy feeling I experienced
during the tour. Of course, they wanted people to think that
their creations were living, breathing humans, just like the

Tlrllﬁ RlNG*'l'l;E\’l PH} L
RTS 81 IFE

.S crutiny melts wax museum

Supper”. Interesting to me is the fact that the first
scene is the “Garden of Eden” at the start of the tour.
The last scene is a life-size recreation of one of the
most famous and beautiful paintings of history. The
religious undertones of this exhibit are in no way
subtle. At nearly all ofthe scenes, a recorded voice
describes the setting and explains in more detail the
history and background behind each of the eerily
life-like creations.

I imagine that the creators hope that people will
appreciate all of the time and effort that goes in to
the production ofthese settings. In fact, it is possible
for visitors who are so inclined to tour the factory
floor to see the wax artisans at work. Needless to
say, we declined that opportunity. I definitely
understand the skill and dedication required for the
artisan craft of wax figure making, but my memories
of a terrifying movie from my youth kept me from
enjoying the museum as thoroughly as one would
hope. Perhaps you remember the film “Wax Works”.
I think I must have seen this movie at too young an
age, because I never got that uncomfortable feeling
out of my stomach. The museum was not scary, nor
did it intend to be. Like I said earlier, it was just plain
creepy.

Idon’t think this is really a good place to take a
date, unless you or your potential date happen to
be weird. Sorry to be blunt. All in all, Jeb and I
decided that the Wax Museum deserved 2 °
tridents, the half is for the the bragging rights of
actually having been to the wax museum We’re glad
we experienced it, but it lost a good review when we
were crept out by it.

Haynes and Jeb give the Wax Museum 2 1/2 out of 5 Tridents.

Iqnumerous tourists that they lure in.

The climax of the tour comes at the end with a sit
down viewing of Leonardo da Vinci’s “The Last

  
   

I’.

BY SAM LAGRONE' ' ' 3
vMI DESK

Sports fans, welcome to the end
of an era.
, The buzz in Barracks is not about
the war in Iraq, our new Airborne

4 superintendent (that enough stars to

form the constellation ‘tough guy’)
and the oral arguments in Richmond
for VMI’s prayer at dinner policy.

it-They have all been eclipsed by the

departure of our b-ball wunderkind,
Jason Conley.

Just as Pat Conroy’s brilliant
retrospective look at his career as a

'” team player at The Citadel in, ‘My

Losing Season,’ was picking up steam,
Conley decided to pull stakes for the
University of Missouri, smack—dab in
the middle of the season.
Most of the corps is crying ﬁnk
"t his move to Missouri, especially
after his bold, declarative, nationally
published statements that he would

T remain at VMI to ﬁnish out school.

There were no hints to his sudden
departure. It was like he was jumping
the Berlin wall to escape the Soviets.

VMI has to be embarrassed.
Conley's face is plastered on every
calendar, basketball poster and a
series of billboards. For a brief but
shining season VMI was the gee-whiz
story on the national sports scene.

.‘ _He led the NCAA in points per game

‘and started drawing the attention of

       mill txrnnn

-«vthe country to a school best known
for teaching young ‘men and women

to blow things up. We had hope for a
revival of the VMI basketball that
existed 25 years ago when former
Keydet and L.A. Laker, Ron Carter
owned all the paint in the Southern
Conference. The Roanoke Times
reported that Carter, who had talked
to Conley often in the past, wasn‘t
consulted about the transfer.

“I was very disappointed. I
thought it was an unfortunate
decision” to leave, Carter said to The
Roanoke Times.

“He could’ve made the transition
to the NBA right from VMI. He was
already on the radar screens of many
of the teams. He was not going to be
overlooked.”

Carter stuck it out for the Corps,
the team and the school. We thought
Conley would do the same before he
up and played free agent.

To give him credit, Jason had a
remarkably and graceﬁal style when he
hit the court. Handling the ball for him
was natural as walking is for the rest of
us. Imagine watching a swan move
across the surface of a crystal pond
gliding effortlessly, beautifully and
then jumping four feet in the air for a
gorilla dunk and squawking, “Whose
the ugly duckling now, fool!” People
who knew him said he was a nice guy.

He made basketball at VMI fun
to watch. The most entertainment

 

:PreeConley came froarri..l\t1.a.rk.-.w
Grigsby. His defensive style could I’

be best described as the spastic
squirrel. Watching him dart
around, frantically waving his arms
in front ofthe full court press was
immensely entertaining. He looked
like Prince Nutsy of the Knotty
Pine Forest trying to snag falling
acorns. He was a very nice guy
too.

Back to square one.

We’re left with a team that was
built around a talented young man
who is absent. Clutch fast breaks
that ended in who’s-your-daddy-
dunks now end in turnovers. The
team still has a lot of heart. Players
like Zach Batte, Ben Rand and
Radee Skipworth work as hard as
they can with a great drive-on
attitude. Sure we’re going to lose a
whole bunch more games this year.
But winning was never a big part of
Keydet sports. It’s all about sharing
dashed hopes, pain and hardships
together as we rally around the most
self—deprecating fight song in
history that states, “to win seems in
vain.”

In the end, there is no “I” in team,
or the Corps.

There sure are a lot of “I’s” in,
“University of Missouri is a winning
program.”

Contact Sam

lagronesr@vmi.edu

LaGrone:

 

PAGE 5

Jr}: BRoOKs/ TbeRI'ng—tumPbz'

CREEPY: This Waxen maiden (insert) enjoys being a captive in the wax museum (background) about as much as We did.

Well it ﬁnally happened. Naively, I had hoped that
I could get through this school year without catalyzing
the controversy that my ex—roommate Mr. Denbow so
loves to kick up. But I suppose there is always that risk
when you present your thoughts for public consumption.

But in this case, I promise my intentions were a little
more benevolent. After a certain freshman girl proofread

1- "that-Rush :Week.reveals nmreal truths about .the
personalities and lives of independents. Of course, I
agreed with her, but I told her that I was already planning
on writing an article to that effect. Here is that article, a
week late (I found it rather difﬁcult to write while I was in
an Ultimate Frisbee tournament last weekend).

Andrew Stein was one of the first people I met
at W&L. He loved to play Ultimate and also played
in the jazz band. He is probably one of the most
genuine people I’ve ever met. Rian Lewis has
certainly one ofthe funniest personalities I’ve ever
experienced. I considered Andrew Fotinos one of
my closest friends freshman year. The soccer team
would clearly suffer without the
contributions of Garreth Winstead.
Dustin Albright virtually runs
Leyburn Library by himself. Sarah
Grigg still says hi, even though we
virtually see each other once every six months or
so. And if you met Lucy Frick and didn’t think she
was the greatest person of all time, then you would
be on crack. Finally, the one person I’ve been closer
to out of anyone EVER was a certain independent
girl.

Since so many tend to view W&L in terms of its
dominance by Greeks, it becomes tragically easy to miss the
contributions of independents. Some frat boys and srat girls
probably couldn’t give the name of 10 indies they know in
Lexington. I am not going to hide the truth, that some members
of the Greek system prefer to ignore the existence of
independents all together. But there is a more practical
difficulty . Often Greek members become so submerged in
their houses that they simply don’t have much contact with
independents. I’ve been fortunate enough to avoid this
situation; my involvement with Ultimate Frisbee and musical
ensembles keeps me in a contact with at least a few
independents that I’m happy to have met.

— my article -two, weeks ago, she suggested that I mention ,

ABSOLUTE FRATLORD
TIM SMITH ‘O4

Independents defy Greek expectations

The Greek mindset also would have us believe that
many independents were simply Rush Week casualties.
If you believe this, come back to reality — there are millions
of other reasons why people CHOOSE (what a shocking
concept) to go independent:

For one, fraternities at this place are ridiculously
expensive. I’m on a full scholarship, and the only reason
I was able to.joi_n r,ny:house_was_ through the generosity
of my parents. ._I'ri‘ Lexington, people with financial
concerns are in the clear minority —r not all of us drive
SUVs and live off of daddy’s millions. Then there is the
grades issue — some are unable to join “legally” because

. of grade concerns. In addition, some prefer not to join

because they fear their grades will suffer. After all, we
are here to learn, ﬁrst and foremost. Some people get
accepted initially, but then refuse to endure the
demeaning aspects of pledgeship. Some folks don’t
rush because of a simple lifestyle choice — they simply
choose to avoid the more negative aspects of fraternity
life. All of these choices and situations are undeniably
valid, and if W&L wasn’t the unique place it is, I’d be
willing to bet that more of us frat boys
and srat girls would be making the same
choices.
* Unfortunately, there are some who

have no choice but to go independent
as a result of Rush Week bid sessions. And as I said
previously, these decisions have no bearing on whether
the individual in question is “good enough.” Indeed, I
argued that some don’t get in simply because one jerk
decides to keep him or her out. To imply that everyone
should change his or her personality was admittedly a
mistake. But I stand by this message — we could all use
improving, and perhaps Rush Week could be an indicator
(albeit an unreliable one) to some that they could improve
something within themselves.

I claim no superiority from being in a fraternity. In
fact, I’m a member of a fraternity that has long suffered
because others have claimed superiority over us. If I
chose to think I was better than independents because
of my Greek status, then I would be no better than these
morons are. To Mr. Bice, and all other independents
who may know me, I hope that I have sufﬁciently
corrected myself — your opinion is valued here as much

as the thoughts of any Greek member in all of Lex Vegas.

our Seasons showcases grace, poise ofW&L ballerinas

, Before reading this column, I’d
like to note two things: ﬁrst of all, I am
«speaking on behalf of my own
lgsxperiences as a ballerina in
:combination with myself as an
Ipbserver in the audience of Vivaldi’s

(Four Seasons. I also use Victoria

§}uroian’s reﬂections as a ballerina for
gnother source. Second of all, I use
:t"he female pronoun throughout the
‘article. This is not a form of

lljiliscrimination against male ballerinas.

Zifkfter all, if there were no male
gballerinas, where would the romantic
gitspect of the ballet exist? Rather, I use

g Ethe pronoun “she” because in W&L’s

fperformance of F our Seasons, all the
-_?_oallerinas are female.

 I don’t think anyone realizes the
Etrength, skill, and talent of a

kiballerina (that is, unless one has

:5oeen there herself). Ballet dancing

-V

is not simply waving one’s arms
around to the sound of music. It is
not interpretive-dancing nor is it
merely jumping around in a tutu.
Ballet dancing involves perfection
and elegance of the
highest degree. To
perform the dance
is not enough.
Rather, she must
perform with pointed feet,
straightened legs, arched back,
uplifted chest, a “tucked-in” tummy,
and softly moving arms, all
maintained under the poise of a
swan, graceful and beautiful to the
eyes of the audience. It is a talent
that takes years to perfect and a skill
that once maintained, is loved by all
who perform.

But the realities of dancing are
not easily disregarded. Endless

ON THE ARTS
 walking quite

hours of practicing the same moves
over and over again until memorized
and immaculate constitute the
ballerina’s schedule. Shaking and
tired muscles, sore buttocks,
bleeding toes
and blistered
feet make

difficult and
awkward when she leaves the
studio. Yet no one would ever know,
except the ballerina herself and
perhaps those who see her
afterwards. The audience does not
know the practice nor do they see
the physical pain — after all, neither
of these are part of the dance.

So why — why does she subject
herself to these physical pains and
the mental stresses of perfection? For
one reason and one reason only: a

passion for the art of ballet. And so,
on performance day, whatever skin
remains on her bloody toes is
bandaged, the sore muscles are
creamed, and tired eyes are concealed
with the stroke of a make-up brush,
all in preparation for her performance
on stage.

The moment
the music
commences, it’s as
though ,a certain
mood, a certain
persona, arises
within the ballerina.
She submits herself
to the power of the
music. The pain, the
worries, and the
stress are left somewhere behind the
set, in the dressing room. The reality
of the stage transforms itself. This is

IT Is A TALENT THAT
TAKES YEARS To PERFECT
AND A SKILL THAT ONCE
MAINTAINED, IS LovED BY
ALL WHO PERFORM.

the moment — this is the reason why
she dances — it is her chance to
express her innermost emotions and
escape into a dream world where love
conquers all and evil, pain, and worry
cease to exist.

Though she may not realize it, she
constitutes the beauty of the piece -
elegance shining
throughthemovernent
of her body to the
harmony of the music.
The melody is inside
her. She is an
instrument for the
composer, portraying
the emotions he
sought to convey. She
does it beautifully, but
at the same time, she uses the composer,
the piece, and the music as an instrument
for her own self—expression.

As for the audience, the
ballerinas seem like angels ﬂoating
in the sky, untouched by the realities
of everyday life. While performing
and dancing in their own whimsical
worlds, they possess the power to
bring the audience with them — on a
journey to these Shakespearean-like
fantasy lands of unreality,
transforming the entire world and its
realities into a sublime and beautiful
dream.

For all of the ballerinas who
performed in Vivaldi’s Four
Seasons, I’d like to say thank you.
Thank you for showing us life from
a truly graceful perspective, and
though it was just a moment, thank
you for taking us into a world away
from the everyday stresses of reality
— a world where the beautiful

prevails.

 

PAGE 6 E ARTS 5; LIFE , .._,IAI_ ,-_AE._________I\iamLIANutRY 27 2003

SEmNG THE STAGE: The Pavillion stage is set up in preparation for the evenings entertainment.

ANGEL IN THE CENFERFOIDZ Kappa freshman Rachel Williams shines.

SEX MACHINE! The
Sigma Chi‘s entertain
the ladies in the crowd
(left).

I

CHEERING:
Spectators
enjoythe Lip
Synch acts

(right).

"at »sTuo£*rs Amara;
. octcampcs MUEA s~ium.sR

S
V
II
0
II
  2
II
II
3

SPARKLING: This years Lip Synch winner, Chi Omega _  ‘
freshmen performed “Diamonds are a Girl's Best Friend”. ’

You CAN DANCE IF YOU WANT To: Fiji Pledges do the “Safety Dance”.

GET DOWN TONIGHT: Kappa Alpha Theta
freshmen impress the crowd with their agility.

All photos byjmz
BROOKS ANl) K»\’I‘IE
HOWELL / THE RING-TUM

PH‘ HARDATWORK: ATheta concentrates
on her moves in the “ghetto mix”.

# 1 Spring Break Vacations!
BLING BLING! Lambda Chi pledge Jon Cochran Cancun’ Jamalca’ Bahamas’ & Fl?rlda'
entertains the Crowd with “Rappers Delight”. 015' 5i8EPﬁ€5hm€n PafolmmﬂeB‘~‘tterCUP"35[h€Mn11‘3€Aml809"- Best Parties, Best H0telS, Best Prlcesl
I - 1 5; I _ M I ‘I I I ~ Group Discounts, Group organizers travel free!
I: .' l h  V l :v ‘  "' .-  0 0 0
Best Seller Anal’ lmelns:  gm W9; 3 ham. W P Space 1S limited! Hurry up & Book Now!
2  ant _ S in [0wn_ ; cottage fundraismg made Sam!» Safari Tea». 6 1-800-234-7007
-    '  - ~ I -I . -*  . rt rs.com
Manama June 1_ _ A: m \ p  5 A www endlesssumme ou

laundrv nroviuerl. $5'.ilIIMo.   I .0   i “T

caluancv-Iameswm.wIooIeneaItsIaIe.       .     SENIORS-
463_m80 '  ' CHECK OUT A GREAT SUMMER JOB

iIN THE MEDICINE Bow MOUNTAINS
l

O0O0OOOICD000OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOCOO

APARTMENT FOR RENT
7 miles from Lexington
1 Bedroom, kitchen/living room,
private entrance
electric, water, heat included
please leave message 540 464 6698

OF SOUTHERN WYOMING.

I WWW.COOLWORKS.COM/ABARA HAS FULL

l INFORMATION ABOUT THE A BAR A GUEST

l RANCH.‘-l-HE MANAGER WILL BE ON CAMPUS

l INTERVIEWING ON FEBRUARY 5. EMAIL BOB

l HOWE AT ABARARANCH@AOL.COM TO SET UP AN
lINTERvIEw OR ASK QUESTIONS.

2 bedroom apartment for rent in Lexington
for next school year for $550.00 per month.
Living room/kitchen and 1 bath.

Low cost central heat and air conditioning.
Owner pays for water & sewer.
Common area washer & dryer.

Call Realtor Joe Vita at Vita & Associates, Inc.
at 463-9551 for details.

 

    

rER1Njirii7s
SPoRis EorroR
FNAIL: ]UlILTSF.@WLU.EDU

no: RIT\?G-°=’l’lIEYE

~ MONDAY, JANUARY 27, 2005

RY MARY CHRISTOPHER
SPORTS WRITER

‘I ‘ Having started training well before

Christmas break, the men and women
‘of the Washington and Lee track team
ﬁnally had their opportunity to shine.
The team arrived at Christopher New-

‘ port University, in New Port News, late
Friday afternoon and left early Satur-
day evening.

The distance squad returns only 5
runners from last year’s team: Steven
Chambers, ‘05; Rusty Meyer, ‘04; co-
captain Erin Johnson, ‘O4; Jessica
Remmert, ‘O5; and Samantha Snabes, ‘04.

Several cross country competi-

' tors from the fall season are running

this seasonAndrew Johnson, ‘06
David Hicks, ‘03 Norman Senior, ’05,
Betsy F rayer, ’06 and Liz Twentyman,
’06, Matthew Reilley, ‘O6. Mary Chris-
topher, ‘O6 also _join the roster.

Coach Amy Shuckert, the dis-
tance coach, believes “our distance/
middle-distance crew is a great group.
We have a few seasoned veterans who
will, most certainly, be strong leaders
for the young group. I’m looking for-
ward to seeing the debut performances
of Reilley and Christopher. I believe
those two have a lot of raw talent and
think they will prove to be strong com-
petitors this season.”

As for those who have run with
the team before, “Steve Chambers

P ORTS —--J
Trackteams get a speedy start to season

Fill

and Andrew Johnson were proven
performance leaders in the fall and I
believe their efforts will only continue
to pay off during track season. Meyer,
David Hicks, Snabes and Remmert are
all coming off of a solid cross country
season. Their hard work will continue
to pay dividends towards the success
of the team,” said Schuckert.

One problem the team had dur-
ing the fall season was injuries.

“We have suffered an unusual
arnountof injuries comingbackﬁombreak,
so right now we are in a bit of a transition
period with many of the runners. The good
news, however, is that Erin Johnson and
Liz Twentyman—who were injured dur-
ing the cross country season, are now

  

Poor. CHAT. W&L swimmer Drew Catanese speaks to team mates in the pool before Saturday’s meet.

iUlti i 1.forouae

Two DFAD GUYS. The frisbee team traveled to Florida last weekend for a toumament against dozens of other schools.

It
BY ERIN Jorrus

SPORTS EDITOR

For the first time ever this year,
'¥Washington and Lee can claim that is

has a legitimately organized Ultimate .

Frisbee team.

_ “We’ve been playing pick up
games forever, but this year Chris
Jordan and myself took the initia-
tive to recruit freshmen, and we also
got money from the EC and from the
service fraternity, Alpha Phi

KOmega...that got Two Dead Guys
off the ground,” said Timothy

Smith, ‘O4.

The money from the EC en-
abled the team to become members
in the Ultimate Frisbee Association
(the NFL of frisbee) and to buy uni-
forms. Membership in the Ultimate
Frisbee Association allows the

uxteam to play in all college tourna-
ments and in the regional tourna-
ment—it is a part ofthe Blue Ridge
Region. I
This year, the team has instituted
Regular Monday, Wednesday and Fri-
day practices.

W&L held its first Ultimate
tournament the first weekend of
November, out at the law fields.
Radford, James Madison Univer-
sity, Eastern Mennonite Univer-
sity and Liberty showed up for this
first-ever Mountain Cup. At that
tournament, W&L beat Liberty and
JMU but lost to Radford in the
Semis. Overall, the team placed
3rd.

Chris Jordan, ‘O3 who has been
playing in Ultimate pick-up games
since his freshman year, then found
out about the Florida Winter Clas-
sic at UF. The team decided to go,
“to gain experience, to see how we
stacked up against good teams
from the South, and also it was in-
tended to be sort of a treat to the
seniors who have played Frisbee
their whole 4 years here but haven’t
been able to go to tournaments due
to the lack of organization,” said
Smith.

Washington and Lee was one of
the smaller schools at the Florida
Winter Classic tournament. Of the
sixteen teams in attendance, only two

were Division III schools—W&L and
Emory.

“We played 7 games over all,
and only won one of them, but we
had a great time. It was deﬁnitely
challenging...it was tough to play
against bigger schools like Florida
and Georgia and Vanderbilt,” said
Smith.

Eleven team members traveled
to Florida with Smith and Jordan:
Trey Fogg, Justin Allegro, Matt
Kimbrough, Farhan Mustafa, John
Wright (all ’O3), Tom Hunt, Matt
Kilanski, Seth Jones, Peter Jones (all
’06), Dan Simmons and Eliot Hibbler
(both law students).

Ultimate Frisbee attracts different
people for different reasons.

» “The sport requires a lot of run-
ning, it’s a very laid back relaxed at-
mosphere,” said Jordan, “I’ve stuck
with it because I wanted to compete
and stay athletic, but, at the same time,
I didn’t want to put in the time re-
quired to participate in a varsity
sport.”

Senior Trey Fogg says he likes
that Ultimate is a pick—up sport be-

ERiN_Ii'ui'sﬂl)eRlng—lz4m Pbi

healthy and ready to go,” said Shuckert
The results of the meet are as fol-
lows: In the distance events AJ ran
the 3k in 9:31:07 and Christopher ran
the 1500 in 5:38:31. Samantha and Jes-
sica also showed a strong perfor-

mance in the 5K. In the mid distance

races Christopher, Johnson, and
Twentyman all ran the 800 at 2:37:56,
2:40:98, and 2:43: 1 1 respectively. The
sprint team also ran well. Jonathan
Brimer, Brian Krupczack, Joe Vitta, and
Hugo Diaz ran the 60 meter dash at
7:39, 7:47, 7:79, and 7:87; Brimer went
on to qualify for the Division 3 ﬁnals.

For the girls, Meredith Walker,
Kim Gunst, and Amy Bacastow ran at
times of8:96, 9:53, and 9:92. Meredith

BY JOHN HYLAND
SPORTS WRITER

Both the Washington and Lee men’s and women’s
swimming teams lost tough meets to two strong
Gettysburg squads Saturday at the Cy Twombley Pool in
what was the ﬁnal home meet of the season for both teams.

The women fell 162.5 to 79.5 to an undefeated
Gettysburg team to drop their‘ overall record to 7-3. The
men were defeated 134 to 106 to a Gettysburg squad that
has only one loss, which dropped their record to 4-5.

Despite the losses, the Generals had some outstand-

ing individual performances.

For the women, Beth Sauer ’O6 won the 100 and 200
breast stroke events. She won the 200 in a time 2:35.85,
breaking her own top time for W&L in this event.

Sauer’ s classmate, Kristine Holda won the 100
freestyle event in a time of 55.73 also establishing her own

team best for the season.

As for the men’s team, the Generals won the 200 med-
ley relay and, in the most exciting race of the afternoon,

l’lIOY()(10L‘RIl3YTl'Vl SMITH

cause he is never forced to show up
for practice but, “I can always rely on
the same core group of guys to be
there, along with a few new people. It
is also a fun and social sport and is a
great way to exercise,” he said.

I “I think it was impressive that
we were able to go to the tourna-
ment of this size in what is really
our first year of existence,” said
Smith, “hopefully next year we can
get recognition as an official club
sport, which should make the team
a permanent part of W&L athletics.”

“The tournament in Florida was
a great experience because we are
starting to set a standard for the un-
derclassmen, especially the fresh-
men,” said Fogg

Echoing Smith’s sentiments for
wanting Ultimate to remain a sport
at W&L, Jordan said, “A lot of
people don’t realize that Ultimate
is a very easy game to pick up and
that it is also co-ed... This year we
will enter a couple of more college
tournaments and maybe even host
another bigger tournament here at
W&L.”

  

went on to the ﬁnals for the girls. In
the 200 m run, Brimer ran a 24:22, Joe a
25:78, and Hugo a 25:90. Walker ran
the 200 in 29.58, Gunst in 30:67, and
Bacastow in 33 :09.

The ﬁeld team also performed
well. Audrey Walker threw shot at
31-4 for the women and Krupczack
threw 35-10 for the men.

The coaches plan to “gear to-
wards the outdoor season, using in-
doors as a preparation for our best
performances to come in the spring,”
and the team knows that “success will
be measured by individual improve-
ment which will build a strong foun-
dation for future success.”

Everyone is aware that instant

.Sm eamsfall‘ las hoe mee of season

PAGE 7

results are not what track and ﬁeld is
about and that everyone must have
determination and perseverance at all
times to meet the challenge of the sea-
son. Snabes feels that despite the
small size, “we have a bunch of en-
thusiastic and committed individuals
so I expect a good season.” The team
will focus on character and the big
picture to reach their long-term goals.
It requires a special person to take
on such a challenge, and Shuckert
knows “our group is willing and able
to accept such a challenge!”

The teams’ next meet isSaturday,
February 1 at neighbor Virginia Mili-
tary Institute, at what is known as the
VMI Relays.

W&L won the 200 freestyle relay to end the meet on a

positive note.

Individually, Eric Ritter, ’04, won the 100 and 200 back-

stroke events. Ritter won the 100 back in 53.80 to set the
top time of the season in this event. The two-time All-
American honoree is poised for a return trip to the NCAAs.

In addition, Chris Colby ’ 05 won the 200 butterﬂy,
Zach Fake ’03 won the 50 freestyle and Drew Catanese ’04
won the 100 butterﬂy. K

Prior to the meet the ﬁve seniors on the women’s
team, including co-captains Kelli Austin and Blair
Hoffman and the three seniors on the men’s team, in-

cluding co-captains Fake and Patrick Frankfort, were

introduced and honored for their commitment to the
W&L swimming program in what was the ﬁnal home
meet of their careers.

The women’s team closes out their regular season
with three meets on the road, beginning with Division I

foe, Radford, on January 26.

F.

FROM STAFF REPORTS

  Women’s Basketball loses

Emory, Va.- Washington and
Lee’swomen’sbasketballteamlostto

aftemoon;theﬁnalscorewas67-53.

Turnovers were detrimental to
W&L, as the Wasps converted the
General ’ s 1 Sturnoversinto l 9points.
The Waspshadonlytwoturnovers.

The Generals trailed by a small
margin,27-26,goingintothehalﬁbut
were outscored 40-27 by the Wasps
duringthesecondhalf

Individually, the Generals
turned in some strong performances.
Forward Sarah Michaels, ’04, had a
game-high of 22 points and grabbed
seven rebounds.

GuardLousiaFeve, ’ 06,addedl 3
pointswhileforwardEmilyBarker,‘05,

‘ postedl 1. ‘

Center Austin Calhoun, -03,
grabbedagame-higheightboards.

W&L faces EMU at home on
Tuesdayevening. The gamebegins at
7.

Men ’s hoops loses

Lee’s men’s basketball team lost to
Virginia Wesleyan Saturday after-
noon 71-49. Virginia Wesleyan had
a distinct advantage at the halﬁ lead-
ing 31-19.

comeback, closing the gap until they

Emory and Henry on Satutdayp

Norfolk, Va.- Washington and 9

W&L launched a second-half

The men ﬁnish their regular season on February 1
against both Johns Hopkins and Marymount.

Away, losses abound

were only down by ﬁve, 37-32. The
Generals never managed to follow
through with a comeback, however,
and were outscored 43- 17 by the
Marlins during the remaining 14:49.

Forward David Will, ’06, had a
team-high of 16 points. Guard Mike
Stuart, ’05, posted nine points while
forward Scott Hettermann, ’03,
chipped in eight points and ﬁve
boards.

Wrestlers take one win,
two losses at McDaniel

Westminster, Md.- Washington
and Lee’s wrestling team competed
in the McDaniel Quadrangular Sat-
urday afternoon. W&L defeated
Galludet (40-12) before losing to
Ursinus (48-3) and McDaniel (35-
12).

Michael Bennett, ’04, won all
three of his matches at 197. He ﬁrst
pinned Magguldet’s Dennis Cruz in
2:06, took a 9-5 decision against
Irsinus’s Sebastian Voltarelli and

handled McDaniel’s Adam Dayton, '

14-6.

Brian Avello, ’05, went 2-1
at 174. He won by forfeit
against Galludet, but was then
pinned by Ursinus’s Mike
Troutman. Avello came back to
pin McDaniel’s Caleb Moore in
2:14.

W&L will next take the mat on
Saturday, when they compete in the
Muhlenberg Triangular. Matches
will start at 12.

PAGE 8

     

 
 

DEFEAT. Senior captain Scott Hetteiman takes a fall during Wednesdays game.

BY ALUSON PERRY
SPORTS WRITER

The Emory and Henry men’s basketball
team slipped by the Generals Wednesday night
with a 75-73 win in Warner Center. Junior guard
Justin Call carried the Wasps with a career-high
46 points and seven three-pointers. The Gen-
eral, however, stayed close, never letting E&H
take more than a ﬁve point lead.

W&L sophomore guard Mike Stuart scored
l5 of his total 23 points in the first half, ﬁfteen
of which were from three-point range.

Freshman forward Phil Landes added 1 1
points.

Senior captain Scott Hetterman also added
two dunks to contribute to his seven points in
the first half.

The Generals took the lead six times before
half-time, but a three-pointer by E&H sopho-
more guard Ben Fisher with six seconds left in
the half let the Wasps take a lead of 46-45.

At the beginning of the second half, the
Generals took their highest lead, leading by six
points.

The game went back and forth until E&H
took the lead for good with a layup by Call with
a little over two minutes left.

Stuart brought the game within two after
making a shot and then a free throw at three sec-
onds. Fisher was then fouled but missed both of
his shots before the Wasps took the win.

W&L held E&H to 30.4 percent shooting,
down from 60 percent in the first half.

Sophomore guard Ian McClure, who leads the
team in three—point percentage with 34.7 percent,
posted ten of his thirteen points in the second half. .



Setbll fa1tE

ﬁn

Kmir. l'lOWIilL/ lbeRing-tum Pbz’

McClure said the Generals needed to do a
better job of getting on defense. “Emory and
Henry loves to push the ball up the court,” he
said. “They were just faster.”

Junior Captain Michael Denbow averages
3.1 assists per game and agreed that transition
defense and turnovers needed to be worked on.
The Generals had a season-high of 26 turnovers
for the game. On a positive note, Denbow said,
“Our shooting is back, and we had better team
defense.”

Wednesday night’s game was E&H’s ﬁrst
win in Warner Center since the 1996-1997 sea-
son. The win put them at 8-7 overall and 4-5 in
the ODAC.

The Generals will have until February 5“‘ to
prepare for the Wasps again when they play
them in Emory.

McClure suggested possibly going to a
zone defense to help shut down Justin Call.
Denbow thinks the team should continue to
build team defense and limit the turnovers next
time. '

The Generals played at Virginia
Wesleyan on Saturday and came home with
a loss of71-49. W&L lost to the Marlins 54-
70 at the beginning of January. VWC is
ranked 4"‘ in the South Region poll and 26”‘ in
the January 21“ D3Hoops poll ofDivision lll
national leaders.

The Generals also had a game Sunday at
Randolph-Macon. The Yellow Jackets are
ranked 4”‘ in the D3Hoops poll and 2"“ in the
South Region coaches’ poll. Results were not
available at press time. They play next on Tues-
day for a non-conference match-up at McDaniel
at 7:00 p.m.

MONDAY, JANUARY 27, 2003,:

w{¢

Sports  
Events
January 27-

February 2

Men’s Basketball 7

Tuesday, Jan. 28 the Generals
will take on McDaniel away at 7
V p.m.

Wednesday, Jan. 29, the team
takes Bridwater at home at 7 pm.

Saturday, Feb. 1, the team will
take Roanoke away at 7 p.m.

Women’s Basketball

Tuesday, Jan. 28 at home, the
Lady General ’s will take EMU
at 7 p.m.

Friday, Jan. 31 the team goes on
the road to Roanoke to play at
Swimming

Saturday, Feb. 1 the swimmers
fo to Johns Hopkins at 10 a.m.

Saturday, February 1, the
General’s travel to Marymount
for a 5 p.m. match.

Track

Saturday, Feb. 1 track goes next
door to VMI. Time TBA.

Wrestling

Saturday, Feb. 1 General’s go
to Muhlenburg at 12 p.m.

I’

1'

Write for the Phi sports
section. Contact Erin Julius at
x4060 for more information.

1<ul1'eHoueMl9eRing—TuPbi

DUNK. Senior captain Scott Hetterrnan hangs from the basket after scoiing in Wednesday s narrow loss.

Open to

Don't Let This Happen to
You at Your Interview!

 

  Etiquette Dinner
Monday, February 10*“
University Center, 6:00 PM
Cost is $10 - Charge it home!

Juniors & Seniors

Come to Career Services by Feb. 5*“ to Sign Up
Space is Limited, so Don't Delay!

  ARE ER
‘ ‘€35.-X?§¥-l§.\é£,i-£'§‘{ l2:‘*~£ .«“x'.‘\‘i') §:.,§i'§%l 1. }7’~>£{\-"i?,i%<i§’«'§’i"’$."

ERVICES

Undergraduate Admissions Counselor

The Washington and Lee Undergraduate Office of Admissions wishes to
announce possible openings for Admissions Counselors. Responsibilities
include: student interviews, application evaluation, and recruitment travel.
Strong communication skills and demonstrated organizational abilities are
expected. The successful candidate will be both willing and able to work
as part of a highly successful admissions team, yet capable of creative self-
direction. Some evening and weekend work is necessary.

Bachelor’s degree is required, as is a valid driver’s license. All interested
candidates should submit a cover letter and resume, including two refer-
ences, no later than Friday, February 14. All materials should be sent to:

Julia M.,Kozak
Associate Dean of Admissions :

Office of Admissions -
Lexington, VA 24450

OOQOOOOOVOOOOO§OOOOOO_:~OO'OOOOOO

WANTED: Summer Scholars Counselors
June 25 - July 26, 2003
Are you looking for a great chance to be a mentor and to
experience working with high school students while staying
at W&L for the month of July? The Washington and Lee
Summer Scholars Program is an exciting four week aca-
demic program for approximately 150 rising high school
seniors. We are looking for responsible students to help
guide participants and to plan extracurricular activities such
as talent shows, lip synchs, weekend hikes, trips to Goshen
and more.
For information about the position please contact Dr. Mimi
Milner Elrod at 458-8727. You may pick up an application
from Jennifer Lotts (458-8722) in the Summer Scholars
Office located in the Hill House.
The deadline for turning in applications is February 28,
2003.

3:

ii



OOOO&OOOOOO:OO

4-’

 

  

(3 378,755
(9552.
I/-105
,~, no, If
C» 7»

Commons update:

it

BY KATIE HowEu
EDITOR IN CHIEF

dent Thomas Burish said last week.

“We are considering a beer and wine bar in the Com-
I‘. mons,” Burish said. “Right now we are exploring a number
of things that the University can do.”

Burish suggested serving alcohol in the Commons
for several reasons. He said such a setting would promote
interaction between law school students and 21-year-old

4 undergraduates. He also said serving alcohol on campus
would “encourage respon-
sible drinking and would be
consistent
University’s policies on al-
cohol.”

Before administrators
make a final decision
whether to include a stu-
dent bar or restaurant serv-
ing alcohol, the University
is gathering student, fac-
ulty and alumni input as - ~
well as feedback from other
colleges and universities
that serve alcohol in their
student centers.

“At this point, the general feelings we are getting

‘X (from faculty, students and other universities)»is that serv-
ing alcohol on campus is a possibility and doesn’t appear
to be a big deal,” Dean of Students David Howison said.

Howison and Burish both said they have gotten positive
feedback from most individuals approached about the idea.

“The students are overridingly in favor of the idea,”

 

(DURlIE’\lV\lVWDB3l:Nl*lANl\VO()ll’A(}(.(I).Ul(
ON TAP. Beer may be sold in
the new Commons.

Burish said.

ulty, staff, board and alumni opinion.

BY MEGAN MORGAN
SENIOR STAFF WRITER

On Jan. 31, the Virginia State As-
sembly unanimously passed a bill that,
if enacted, will allow universities more
discretion in determining appropriate
punishments for individuals found
guilty ofhazing. Under current state law,
any student found guilty of hazing must
I be expelled from their respective uni-
versity. Many university officials, how-
ever, complain that since hazing can
range from pinching to serious bodily
harm, it is unfair for these students to
receive the same punishment. If the new
hazing bill becomes law, universities will
have much more leeway in determining
appropriate punishments for students
' 1 found guilty of hazing by applying a

 

    
       
   

     

Beer may  

Beer and wine may be served in the new student Com-
mons alongside coffee, books and school supplies, Presi-

Before a ﬁnal decision is made, Burish said the Uni-
versity must look at the liability issues, licensing and fac-

“Some people have said that serving alcohol in the

Commons is inconsistent with the school’s current mes-
sage that there’ is ‘too much" drinking at‘W&L’,” Burish

IFC unsure about hazing law

  WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

T HE IN G'TUM

with the

BER AND nooks. Construction crews Continue work on the John W. Elrod Commons. The

said. “These people think that to offer alcohol on campus

wide range of sanctions instead of man-
datory expulsion.

The new bill also redeﬁnes haz-
ing, offering a detailed deﬁnition

which is missing from current state ‘

law. Currently, a student must suffer
bodily harm as a result of hazing in
order to press charges or sue. In the
new bill, the deﬁnition of hazing is
widened to include not only bodily
harm but also purposeful endanger-
ment of a person’s safety.

It is hoped that the new bill will
assist in ending underreporting of
hazing cases and assist universities
in prosecuting cases brought before
them. Because hazing is poorly de-
ﬁned and the punishment for those
found guilty of it is so severe, stu-
dents may be reluctant to press

will be promoting drinking.”
Howison and Burish said, however, that few people school,” Howison said. “They all said little alcohol was
have expressed this sentiment. ‘

charges. By offering a more precise
deﬁnition of hazing and a wider vari-
ety of possible punishments, it is
hoped that students will be less re-
luctant to press charges.

It is unclear how this bill will af-
fect the Washington and Lee commu-
nity. Christopher Pickens, Washing-
ton and Lee’s Interfratemity Council
President, thinks that the greater ﬂex-
ibility the bill gives to the school is “a
good thing, although I hope that it
does not encourage schools to be
more tolerant on hazing.”

The bill now goes to a Senate
subcommittee, which has its own ver-
sion of the hazing bill. In order for the
bill to become law, the two houses will
have to agree upon a single version
of it. '

, Shuttle explosion saddens campus

I
if
it
.. .. .NmG_Ov
MOURNING. Columbia glided toward Edwards Air Force
‘ Base during its first mission in 1981.

BY CAIEY ANDERsoN
AssIsTANT NEWS EDITOR

It On the morning of Feb. 1, the 22-year-old Space
Shuttle Columbia exploded approximately 200,000 feet
above the Earth’s surface. All seven members of its crew,
including Ilan Ramon, the first citizen of Israel to ﬂy in
space, were lost. While details are only speculative at this

I’ point, NASA oﬁicials believe that the “number one likely
cause” of the accident was a piece of wing insulation that
fell off the shuttle at takeoff. The failure of any part of the
shuttle’s insulation/heat shield structure would likely lead

X to such a catastrophe, as temperatures caused by high-

    

speed friction with the planet’s atmosphere on re—entry can
reach 3,000 degrees Fahrenheit.

The Washington and Lee community, in step with
the rest of the nation, has reacted with remorse and re-
gret to this tragedy. “It’s just so sad,” said one W&L
sophomore who wishes to remain anonymous. “It only
makes it worse that it was the ﬁrst Israeli in space.”

Other students had similar sentiments. “I was skiing
and I found out when I got back to the van,” said senior
Richard Kilby, who has some friends and acquaintances
among the Texas NASA family. “It made me think about
some of the people down there and how close they are.”

Faculty reacted as well. “I think it’s a very sad
thing,” said history professor Ted DeLaney. One al-
most universal sentiment was the desire to see the
space program press forward despite the setback. “I
don’t want to see the space program halted at all,”
said DeLaney. Kilby expressed a similar sentiment,
noting “America is a country that keeps going on.”

This sentiment is markedly different from American
popular sentiment following the Challenger space shuttle
explosion in 1986. Following that tragedy, American sup-
port for the space program fell sharply into apathy.» The
Columbia explosion has, by contrast, led many citizens
to a more fervent support of NASA.

“These things are horrible, but it makes you realize
that space travel is deﬁnitely not like going down in your
car to pick up lunch,” said Kilby. Washington and Lee,
and the rest of the nation, mourns the loss of the seven
lost crew members, but applauds their courage and hero-
ism.

“Other schools have said that serving beer has not
caused a problem, nor has it changed the culture of the

sold in each setting.”

Publications win big in EC fundinggame

BY CALEY ANDERSON
AssIsTANT NEWS EDITOR

The Executive Committee of the Student Body
has allocated over $17,000 in secondary Winter Term
funding to 20 organizations. The Jan. 29 Budget Hear-
ings were marked by,the presence of several new
organizations as well as several breaks from prece-
dent.

In Athletics, the new club sport of boxing received
$500 in startup funds. Ultimate Frisbee, which was re-
started during Fall term and took in $300 from the EC
then, received $400 in additional ﬁinds this term. Newly
re—founded Club Fencing took in the most of any athletic

‘ organization at $800. They had received $675 in Fall term
funding.

New organizations receiving funding included
the Knitting Society ($100), Project HOPE ($250),
the Spanish House ($100), and the W&L Turkish
Generals ($120). However, the most notable parts
ofthe hearing came from previously-standing orga-

' nizations.

The College Republicans, one of the largest or-

ganizations on-campus, had applied for EC funding

in the Fall, but was turned down due to its politically ‘ 7

partisan nature. Seeking to evade partisanship, this
term both the College Republicans and the Young
Democrats applied jointly for EC funding. The Ex-
ecutive Committee decided to allocate no money to
thejoint applicants, however, and a hearing is sched-
uled which will discuss the rules of EC funding. The
EC also hinted that the lack of funding to the uniﬁed
political organizations may not solely have been due
to partisanship, but rather a lack of funds, and that
the Democrats and Republicans would probably have
better luck in Fall term ofthe next school year.

The Trident, the campus’ formerly independent
student newspaper, received EC funding for the
first time in its history. The Trident had previ-
ously applied for funding during Fall term, but was
turned down by the EC. This term, however, the
EC saw fit to allocate $3,240 to the financially be-
leaguered Trident.

The International House, which has moved from
its old facility, also requested funding for the ﬁrst
time, citing a need for any aid the EC could manage.
The EC complied with a small funding package of
$100.

 .W-VoLUIII~: CV, N0.XIX
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 5, 2005

  

JEN Bllt XJIG /' 7beRi71g—/1mIPbz'

a beer and wine bar. The GHQ served beer and wine during the 1980s (inset). All legal students
Commons will house dining facilities, study rooms, meeting rooms, a movie theatre and possibly couldbuyalcoholthere until Virginia law changedthe drinking age and the barbecame a r%urant

Housing a bar in the new Commons will not be the
ﬁrst time alcohol has been served on campus.

 BEER, PAGE 3

 

iIz—tImPb

lNFOGRr\l’l ilC BY

 
 

   

stairs I}, §,i%:."‘rR‘i~a  =-.:r.-r.

W.9§EP»3?f(.§ir#.,$n‘Ez rm. 2..

 2 E’-’    

  

C01 IIIIAY \lI.ll
CAr’s CRADLE. Noted author Kurt Vonnegut will speak in
Lee Chapel tomorrow evening. He said, however, that he will
not give autographs or signatures so DON”T ASK HIM.

[.

Vonn gut will speak in Lee Chapel tomorrow i

   

BY KYLE WASS
sI2.\'IoR STAFF WRITER

Kurt Vonnegut, J r., a best-selling science-ﬁction au-
thor, will speak at Washington and Lee this week. Vonnegut
is also an accomplished ﬁlmmaker, sculptor, and graphic
artist.

The speech, entitled “How to Get a Job like Mine,”
will be held at 7:30 in Lee Chapel on Tuesday, February 4,
and is open to the public. It is sponsored by W&L’s
student—run Contact Committee. Vonnegut was the Con-
tact Committee’s first choice speaker, said Contact’s Vice
Chair of Publicity, Victoria Guroian.

Vonnegut is the author of many highly-acclaimed
novels and dozens of essays and short stories, including
Fates Worse than Death and Breakfast of Champions.
Among his better—known novels, Cat’s Cradle and Slaugh-
terhouse—Five are currently required reading in many col-

: owison runs Camus

BY IMRAN NAEEMULLAH
CONTRIBUTING EDITOR

When one considers the traits
' that a Dean of Students might em-
'3 body, humor is probably not one that
comes straight to mind. More likely
 are fairness, discipline, vision, and
people skills, yet to these assets
"; David Howison adds a good sense of
" humor.
When he and I sat down to dis-
‘ cuss his 13-year career at Washing-
" ton and Lee, Howison was full of hu-
morous anecdotes much like the ones
he shares in his weekly newspaper
' columns. One of his favorites is the
time when he and his wife, Chris, were
sleeping, and around 3a.m. he heard
I voices talking on the front porch. For
‘ a while he tried to ignore them, but
after some time had passed he got
dressed and went downstairs. Sitting
on his porch he found two students,
so he introduced himself as the Dean
of Students to their utter surprise, for
they had thought it was a fraternity
house. Certainly, it takes a man who
doesn’t take himself too seriously to
deal with a job like that.
Howison came to Washington
and Lee in 1990 from St. Lawrence Uni-
, A versity in upstate New York, where he
 had spent 22 years in various adminis-
.- trative positions, on the advice of his I
 friends David Long, Vice President for
5" University Relations, and Professor
Lyn Wheeler. He notes that he was
5.‘ immediately impressed by the Honor
1" System, the quality of the faculty,
If W&L’s rich history, and former Presi-
 dent John Wilson, who had led the
 University through coeducation a few
' A years back. He also has his family roots
, in Virginia, so he was happy to come
to what he considers one of the most
I beautiful parts of the country.
 During his tenure at Washington
 and Lee, Howison has faced many
‘, " challenges. Perhaps his biggest one
I..}-' was also his initial one, the Fraternity
" Renaissance. Before Howison arrived
f;_ at W&L, the University had begun a
 $15 million project to completely reno-
‘iii 1 vate the fraternity houses and bring
them under University control. That
 had been largely completed, but the
if-lnecessary accompanying social
 change had not. Howison says that
 at the time, the predominant culture
3" in the fratemity houses was one of
,5. destruction, with students routinely
' breaking windows, smashing in walls,
destroying furniture, and essentially
turning the houses upside down.
Howison managed to persuade the
fraternity brothers that they needed
to preserve the newly renovated
houses and foster a culture of greater
respect for property, because he felt
the old situation was inconsistent
with the values of Washington and’
Lee. He succeeded, for while the oc-
casional broken window is something

age 6

reports.

 
   

«.-.=».:-.<r.'».*-.=«.*. -. 2 '3 '-..<*.:rr.<i~:-rs’-'».'<'»;—:e;<."4‘cw ‘e.':."«.‘~t

of a time—honored tradition, by and
large physical plant issues glowing

Howison characterizes the Dean
of Students job as being one in which
he needs to interact closely with the
student body, the rest of the adminis-
tration, and the faculty, ensuring that
he successfully facilitates the needs
and desires of each respective body
and achieves a degree of harmony. He
is the direct supervisor to 9 positions,
ranging from Career Services to the
Outing Club to the Dean of Freshmen,
so he must remain a ﬂexible person with
the ability to manage an array of re-
sponsibilities. In recent years, he says
that his job has been primarily to lay
the foundation for a more vibrant and
balanced social life, which will largely
be achieved through the creation of
the University Commons. He thus sees
a not entirely coincidental situation:
whereas his initial task was to help re-
form the fraternity system, his
successor’s initial job will be to con-
tinue what Howison has begun and
help make W&L a more welcoming
place to all types of people.

     

JEB R rig

RUNNING MAN. Howison runs around the track every day at noon. He achieved
Masters’ status in the All-American competition in the 800 meters.

Certainly, the new dean can count
on Howison’s continued presence af-
ter the one—month transition period, be-
cause Howison will be staying in Lex-
ington after he retires, although he will
no longer have an ofﬁcial role in Uni-
versity aﬁ°airs. He will, however, still
be a familiar face on campus, promis-
ing to continue to attend sporting
events, and he says he plans'on keep-
ing his locker in the new gym facility.
He and his wife, Chris, will still live in
their house in town, with their two
grown children, Mac and Annie, visit-
ing every now and then, and Chris will
continue to operate the Artisans store
on Washington Street. Howison muses
that the two things he is most looking
forward to are raking the leaves and
running, the latter being one of his
great passions. No doubt, Howison will
frequently be seen jogging along the
Front Lawn, waving to students as he
passes by, and making his way down
the paths worn immemorial by time.

This is the second article in a
series which feature in-depth inter-
views with administrators at Wash-
ington and Lee University.

‘.’fﬁ.¢.. ’ ' '»'.‘?‘.VJ‘/-‘.- -' ’«‘..‘...'3. Vt"-"a".7}“;’-«'

',~:e;5;.-\~.-

WANNA SEE ME

 

FOR A GOOD TLME CLICK...
 WWW. EBBRooKs.(:oM

NEW RATES AND SPECIAL DISCOUNTS AVAILABLE

IN COLOUR?

FOR A LIMITED TLIIIE ONLY

lege courses. Vonnegmt has also expanded artistic media
into sculpture, screen prints, and music. A biochemistry
major at Cornell College, Vonnegut is known for incorpo-
rating science ﬁction and black comedy into his literary
works. Slaughterhouse-Five, the novel written in 1969
that propelled Vonnegut into best-seller status, was only
several years later made into a movie of the same name.
Vonnegut later won critical acclaim through his ﬁlm com-
pany, Sourdough Productions.

Vonnegut wrote Slaughterhouse-Five based on his
experience of being captured in the Battle of the Bulge in
World War II, shortly after his mother, Edith Lieber
Vonnegut, committed suicide. In Dresden, Germany,
Vonnegut was forced to take shelter with otherAllied POW
in an underground meat locker, which was the inspiration
for the famous novel. Of his experience, Vonnegut wrote
that “After [being captured], I worked as a miner of
corpses, breaking into cellars where over a 100,000 Hansel

  
 
 

MONDAY. FEBRUARY 3. 2003

and Gretels were baked like gingerbread men.” Upon his ;<

return to the US, Vonnegut was awarded the Purple Heart.

After receiving his M.A. in anthropology from the
University of Chicago, Vonnegut held a number of jobs,
including those of a Harvard writing professor, a SAAB

dealer in Maine, a teacher of English at a school for men- P

tally disturbed children, and a public relations writer for
the General Electric Company Research Laboratory. It
was at GE that Vonnegut began writing stories for Collier ’s
magazine and the Saturday Evening Post, when he de-
cided to quit GE and move to Provincetown, Mass., where
he planned to write full-time, starting with a book mocking
GE

Vonnegut was a lecturer at the University of Iowa
Writer ’s Workshop, was elected Vice President of the Na-
tional Institute of Arts and Letters in 1975, and has re-
cently been named the State Author of New York, where
he currently resides.

BY CALEY ANDERSON
ASSISTANT NEWS EDITOR

EC Meeting Report, Jan. 27, 2003

EC Business this week included the following
items-

1- Cold Check Committee Report:

The EC inquired with respect to the current status
of the Cold Check Committee, an organization which
protects the ﬁnancial credit of Washington and Lee
students in the Lexington community. If a student
bounces a check in or around Lexington, the Cold
Check committee will reimburse the merchant and trans-
fer the student’s debt to the university. So far, there
have been no bounced checks during Winter Term.

2- Project HOPE:

The EC inquired as to the nature of the new orga-
nization named Project HOPE, which applied for ofﬁ-
cial EC ﬁmding for Winter Term. Project HOPE is effec-
tively a cooperative effort between members of Hillel,
the Muslim League, the Minority Student Association,
and other related groups. Project HOPE sends non-
professional counselors to the Natural Bridge Correc-
tional Facility with the goal of mentoring and counsel-
ing cadets there in a rehabilitation effort.

PBS to document honor system

3- Law School Meeting Place:

PresidentvGerald Titus noted that the next EC meet-
ing, to be held Monday, January 3"’, would take place
in the Law School’s Mock Trial Courtroom in an effort
to be more accessible to law students.

4- Alberto Gonzales Speaker:

The EC noted that Alberto Gonzales, the Chief
Counsel for the President of the United States, will
likely speak at Washington and Lee sometime during
Spring Term. Mr. Gonzales is a noted legal authority,
and is considered by many to be President Bush’s top
pick for a new Supreme Court justice.

5- Honor System Video:

The EC discussed the possibility of creating a new I
Honor System orientation video, which would likely be
recorded on DVD. The EC reached no conclusive deci-
sron.

6- PBS Documentary:

The EC acknowledged that PBS will commence
broadcasting of their five-minute documentary
on Washington and Lee’s honor system this
Spring. The five-minute video details the con-
cept and execution of W&L’s unique Honor Sys-
tem, and willbe played as a transition piece be-
tween larger shows.

 

Don't Let This Happen to
You at Your Interview!

 

Etiquette Dinner

Monday, February 10”‘
University Center, 6:00 PM
Cost is $10 - Charge it home!

Come to Career Services by Feb. 5”‘ to Sign Up
Space is Limited, so Don't Delay!

AREER

NVASE-§{N{§’}7(}N AN!) i..l§¥:7. U 3‘&‘=i\»"iE7.I¥t.?§{’}“i’

ERVICES

\

7

 

 

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 5, 2005

ail news briefs to

 

Artist’s Photos Featured at Joyful Spirit

A Joyful Spirit Café will be hosting an exhibit dedi-
cated to the art of Ms. Margaret Carroll through February
and March. Ms. Carroll is primarily a stained glass artist,
but the Lexington exhibit will feature some of her photog-
raphy efforts in Central America. A Joyful Spirit Cafe is a
vegetarian-styled restaurant and coffee house located at
26 South Main Street. It is open Monday through Friday
from 8:30-5:30, Saturday from 10:00-5:00, and Sunday from
11:00 to 4:00.

Etiquette Dinner Upcoming

A dinner event designed to hone participants’ senses
of etiquette and table manners will occur Monday, Febru-
ary 10th, from 6-8 pm in the University Center.

A reception will be held in Fairfax Lounge at 6pm,
followed by dinner in UC1 14 at 6:30pm. The cost is $10.
You can charge it home using your student id #, or pay
cash. The dinner is limited to the ﬁrst 30 students to
register. Registration ends February 5th. You must come
in person to Career Services (located in the lower level of
the Mattingley House) to sign up.

CIE to Sponsor “Music from China”

The 5-person ensemble, “Music from China,” will
present an evening of traditional and contemporary Chi-
nese music Friday, Feb. 7 at 7:30 p.m. in Lee Chapel on the
Washington and Lee University campus, courtest of the
Center for International Education. “Music from China”
conducts arts-in—education programs in New York City
and along the east coast. These include programs for the
Chinese American community, children’s concerts, music
instruction and arts education.

Lexington

 

Forecast
Monday- Overcast 58/48

Tuesday- Heavy Rain/ Snow, Wind 52/22
Wednesday- Partly Cloudy 38/12
Thursday— Partly Cloudy 34/18

Friday- Light Snow 32/20

Saturday- Partly Cloudy 36/15

 4..-v.-co...-:~u-:-«sly-mu:-.mm-. -1».-~..—. . 5 ....-. . 4
-. - ‘L:.'r"‘i‘/4.1‘-'7K.A2‘—L: .

Sunday- Partly Cloudy 39/21 i

 

Only 11 more days til Feb. Break!

N EWS

    

PAGE 3

SOV to educate new members

BY CALEY ANDERSON
ASSlSTAi\'T NEWS EDITOR

The famed “Something Of Value” program, sponsored
and operated by the Panhellenic Council, will be returning
to Washington and Lee in early March. The program deals
with alcohol issues as they relate to Washington and Lee ’s
ﬁve sororities and the women who comprise them.

Last year, the program was sponsored by the Na-
tional Panhellenic Conference, and much of the program’s
content came from that source. Due to the fact that the
Conference only sponsors a few of these programs na-
tionally per year, Washington and Lee will be planning
and executing its own program this year. The Panhellenic
Council is aiming at a target audience of sorority leaders,

The centerpiece of last year’s program was a mock
trial in which various students and Panhellenic lead-
ers participated in all roles involved, from lawyer to
judge to the accused parties. “This year, we’re only
doing the mock trial part of the program, and we’re
doing our own,” said Panhellenic advisor Teresa
Glassman. The leaders of the Panhellenic Council,
who are often also leaders of their respective Greek
organizations, will be the accused parties. The trial
this year will “most likely be a drunk driving—related
accident,” said Glassman.

The program, which was named “Something Of Value”
last year, will not necessarily have the same name this
year, though that is an option that the Council is consider-
ing. The overall goal of the program, according to
Panhellenic leaders, is to raise awareness of W&L rules

for alcohol in sororities, as well as of the rules of the na-
tional Greek organizations which supervise speciﬁc so-
rorities.

The mock trial, which will be the focus of the
program, is tentatively scheduled for Sunday, March
2"“. Though the law school’s mock trial courtroom
was considered as a potential location, it will not be
used due to distance from the primary W&L under-
graduate campus, as well as low seating capacity.
Instead, the trial will be held in Lee Chapel. Follow-
ing the trial, there will be breakout sessions where
the sorority members will hold discussions of their
thoughts on the trial and its issues with Panhellenic
members. Ms. Glassman confirmed that these ses-
sions will “most likely be held in Colonnade class-
rooms.”

sisters, and pledges.

nford weighs in on new con racep ive

BY CAMILLE Rrcxms
THE STANFORD DAILY (S'1'A.NEoRD U.)

(U—WIRE) STANFORD, Calif. - By the
end of the year, the Food and Drug Admin-
istration may approve a new birth control
pill, commonly called Seasonale, which may
have a dramatic impact not only on contra-
ceptive methods but also on female
lifestyles.

When Seasonale is used correctly, it
can effectively reduce the number of peri-
ods a woman has each year from 13 to four.
While this unique aspect of the pill has some
women and medical professionals at
Stanford University anxiously awaiting its
release, many others remain skeptical.

Seasonale is composed of estrogen and
progestin, two hormones regularly found in
other oral contraceptives. While the cumu-
lative amount of hormones contained in
Seasonale is lower than that of other birth
control pills, such as Levlen and Ortho Tri
Cyclen, it must be taken 84 days in a row
rather than the standard 21 days before the
customary seven-day break.

Similar to other conventional birth con-
trol pills, Seasonale works by suppressing
ovulation and preventing the development
of an endometrium layer in the uterus.

“Women have informally been achiev-
ing the effects of Seasonale for years by
simply skipping the week of placebos in their
regular birth control pills,” said Kati

  barpossible

Willoughby, a women’s health and
Herstory coordinator at the Women’s
Community Center.

“Providing a pill speciﬁcally intended
for this will hopefully lead to greater com-
munication about the issue between pa-
tients and health—care providers.”

There are relatively few health con-
cerns related to the use of Seasonale. Nega-
tive side effects include breast tenderness
and blood clots in very rare cases, though
these symptoms were reported to disap-
pear within the ﬁrst several months of use.
Research has also concluded that the pill
will not enhance women’s chances of de-
veloping breast cancer.

In fact, physicians suggest that men-
strual suppression resulting from the use
of the pill may even be healthy for women.

“In a primitive society, women may
only have 10 or 20 periods in her life be-
cause she is pregnant or breastfeeding the
rest of the time,” said Dr. Jerry Shefren, a
director in the obstetrics and gynecology
department at the School of Medicine.

“Having regular 28-day cycles year
after year may in fact be abnormal.”

Some doctors believe that women who
ovulate regularly without getting pregnant
have higher risks of certain cancers and
endometriosis, a condition that could lead
to internal bleeding and lesions resulting
from malfunctions in the menstrual cycle.
In addition, oral contraceptives are shown

to cut the risk of uterine and ovarian can-
cer.

“It sounds like any woman’s dream
come true, not having to deal with pads,
tampons, etc.,” said Valerie Lundy—
Wagner, a campus and community out-
reach coordinator at the WCC.

The pill is still pending government
approval; however, with tests consis-
tently proving it safe and effective,
Seasonale may be available with prescrip-
tion by the end of this year. Upon FDA
approval, Stanford’s health centers will
need to decide whether to provide it as
another birth control option for patients.

“I do hope that [Vaden Health Cen-
ter] distributes Seasonale,” Willoughby
said. “I believe that women should have
the opportunity to choose to control their
menstruation if it is medically possible.
However, I don’t believe it is the right
choice for everyone.”

The WCC will continue to be heavily
involved in educating women about their
birth control options, regardless of the
University’s decision concerning
Seasonale. The WCC will most likely hold
workshops and information sessions on
Seasonale and other methods of birth con-
trol toward the end of winter quarter.

While the community center will not
advocate use of this pill over other meth-
ods of contraception, the staff expressed
its hope to create a forum to raise women’s

awareness of Seasonale, and to help stu-
dents make informed choices about whether
to use the product.

“Our main purpose is to provide
women in Stanford’s community with in-
formation,” Lundy-Wagner said. “After
consulting a physician who recommends
it, women on campus should deﬁnitely
have access to this form of birth control.”

The WCC and other health sources
also expressed the need to draw women’s
attention to the fact that Seasonale is not a
proper form of contraception when used
alone.

“Unfortunately, oral contraceptives
only work at preventing pregnancy, but
they don’t do a thing about sexually trans-
mitted infections,” said junior Erik Wong, a
peer health educator at Freshman / Sopho-
more College.

“So we always advise that students
know what other forms of contraception
there are, and that the pill can be used in
conjunction with a condom.”

While the University will need to de-
cide whether to have the drug available by
prescription, a variety of resources on cam-
pus will still provide women with the infor-
mation they need to make educated deci-
sions regarding the pill.

“It will be interesting to see in ten years
down the road, if the phenomenon of
monthly menstruation is still common-
place,” Willoughby said.

BAR, FROM PAGE 1

“The GHQ was originally de-
signed as a tap house,” Associate
Dean of Students Buddy Atkins said.

Atkins said the GHQ sold beer and
wine until 1985 or 1986 when Virginia
law changed the legal drinking age.

“It wasn’t worth it to be a tap house
after that,” he said. “The majority of the
student body couldn’t be served.”

While administrators deliberate
about the possible addition of the bar or
tap house, Commons construction con-
tinues as scheduled despite cold weather.

Howison said the administrators
have every reason to believe the Com-
mons will be “up and running” by the fall.

“The Commons is a fabulous
building,” Burish said. “It’s elegant
and it will have resources that this
school has never had before in it—a
piano in the lounge, :1 movie theatre,
areas to plug up computers to the net-
work, wonderful conference rooms,

ofﬁces for student organizations, food
courts and an all-night coffee house.”
Administrators continue to meet
with faculty, board and student lead-
ers to discuss other possible additions
to the $30 million building project.
Burish said he is looking to pro-
vide opportunities for all members of
the W&L community to use the Com-
mons. He wants law students to in-
teract with undergraduate students
and members of Greek organizations
to interact with non—Greek students.
“We want to attract the Greek
students too,” Burish said. “It won’t
work if it doesn’t attract all students.”
As construction continues,
Howison said the University ofﬁcials
should make a decision about the in-
clusion of a student bar in the next
few months. He said if administrators
decide against serving alcohol initially,
it could always be added later.
“We are looking at this as an alter-
native to going downtown,” Burish said.

Teach carefully. We can “ lo‘ yo ‘head
Call 877-ACT-WlSE or Visit wwwjactag ‘ ,

i,\'ri0lence.org.

But it wasrfc as bar for long. The local Police Department shut down Swifty’s
Lounge for illegal drug activity. instead uflcorrdemning the property, may
contacted their local Community coalition. The coalition tsroughrin contractors
who donated their time. to rcnovarz the building. And the doctor go: his hospstal

to volunteer senlices for Families that need drug counscling.

1:’; funny what ha ppens when um all work together. Communities become :1 better
place for everyone, especialiy our children, Community coalitions bring
other community groups together. And getting involved is easy. Just contaa
www.belpyouroo:rImuriity.ovg or 1-877-KlDS—31 3. Th2_v‘ll tell you how your group

can help. You’ll be surprised how much you can aczzompiish.

‘I00 set We vlneil you set togetner.

Offiu of llaiiaml Drug formal Polity '

Start rig at $15,155.” Model Shown .5 lil, $35.

Seats ﬁve, has 53 cubic
feet of cargo space. and
is available with 186 hp

and a 6-speed manual
shift. Even evolution
can’! fully explain it.

M02 TM-Lilli WEB Siéﬁﬁ Ll-‘SA. 1%. 51.13% L?!
l?l]iTFl3l7lT§lz'3EE‘ll’l'ﬁtﬂ‘i‘E'S‘@J.*%tlSl3PMLl%ES
DE;hﬁ'%1  3 MD  FE. EQSALFEIBS Til-‘E
 Lﬁliﬁf. Bfilﬁlﬁ M}  PE{1l@
 ﬁiClLL‘l. :i}§i‘l.Ell NE W? ‘:I.‘hli’l

    

PAGE 4

 

Sii\l5l3\iiPiﬁED1TORlAL

We owe much to Columbia crew

America is a nation of adventurers. Since
our founding on the frontier of civilization, we
have pressed westward, into the sky, the depths
of the sea, and since 1961, into space. Every
step in our journey of discovery and explora-
tion has been fraught with risk, but courageous
men and women have carried the torch of hu-
man endeavour despite the cost to themselves
and their families.

The crew of the ill-fated Space Shuttle
Columbia was no different. Commander Rick
Husband left behind two children. Pilot William
McCool’s mother has asked that shuttle ﬂights
resume. Payload Commander Michael Ander-
son had given a signed picture of the crew to
his former Sunday School teacher. Engineer
Kalpana Chawla carried the dreams of India
into space with her. Pilot David Brown took
with him a ﬂag from Arlington’s Yorktown High
School that had already been carried up Mt.
Everest. Physician Dr. Laurel Clark’s eight-
year-old son, Lain, had worried about the dan-
gers of space ﬂight. Colonel Ilan Ramon, the
first Israeli in space, had survived two wars
and was the son of an Auschwitz survivor.

Since the Columbia first ﬂew 22 years ago,
shuttle ﬂights had become routine and their
safety assumed. Saturday’s tragedy reminds us
how dangerous space ﬂight still is and how much
superhuman courage and adventurism drives
frontiersmen—even on the ﬁnal frontier.

Following the 1986 Challenger explosion,
President Reagan read “High Flight,” a poem
by John Gillespie Magee, Jr., an American who
fought for the RAF during World War II and
died in an training accident when only 19 years
old. In tribute to the seven great astronauts who
died in the service of makind, we have printed
it below.

Oh! I have slipped the surly bonds of earth

And danced the skies on laughter-silvered wings
Sunward I ’ve climbed, and joined the tumbling mirth
Of sun-split clouds—and done a hundred things

You have not dreamed of—wheeled and soared and swung
High in the sunlit silence, hov ’ring there

1 've chased the shouting wind along,

And ﬂung my eager craft through footless halls of air.
Up, up the long, delirious burning blue

I've topped the wind-sweptheights with easy grace 3 -
Where never lark, or even eagle ﬂew

And, while with silent lifting mind I ’ve trod

The high untrespassed sanctity of space

Put out my hand and touched the face of God

    

oou<rrsYuuw nah: mm
HEROES. Columbia crew, l—r, front row, Rick Husban ,
Kalpana Chawla, William McCool, back row, David
Brown, laurel Clark, Michael Anderson and Han Ramon.

THE R1N<;~mi Put

  

mm 1. mRwAA'
OPINIONS EDrroR
EMAIL: K[RWANB@WLU.EDU

PINIONS

War hits home for Ramsey

Sister soon to join troops deployed to Persian Gulf, Bush still not proved necessity of war

Liberals have it hard these days.
Charles Barron, a New York City
Councilman, is on F ox’s Hannity &
Colmes. The current debate is on the
speech made by former South Afri-
can President Nelson Mandela
which said the United States is the
country in this world committing
atrocities and called President Bush
a racist. Barron was agreeing with
all Mandela had to say, however the
show’s liberal commentator Alan
Colmes-could not agree.

Also, senators like Ted Kennedy
speak out against the possibility of
an attack on Iraq, after he slept
through the President’s State of the
Union address on Tuesday. George
Clooney is running his mouth. Seri-
ously, what the hell does George
Clooney know? About as much as
Sean Penn.

The most positive piece of anti-
war commentary out there these days
are commercials from the Methodist
Church, which happens to be the
President’s church. The ads are ques-
tioning the morality of a preemptive
strike on the Iraqi nation.

However, none of these efforts
put a real face on the issue. But for
me, the possibility of war has sud-
denly become very personal.

My sister is an Ensign in the
United States Navy. She is a medical/
surgical nurse stationed in San Diego,
California, working in a hospital that
receives soldiers from the largest
Marine Corps base in the world, Camp
Pendleton.

Over the past months, she has
gone to work to be surprised at who
was no longer there because they had
been deployed. Typically, military de-
ployment orders specify a length of

FRoNmN1=.. Should war be declared against Iraq, Ensign Ramsey will join her fellow
sailors, such as those aboard the USS George Washington, in the Persian Gulf.

six months. These days the duration
is merely marked, “Indeﬁnite.”

Just a week ago, my sister’s
number came up. While the date of
her departure is not yet known, her
superiors told her to pack up and
expect to be gone by mid-March at
the latest. This news has sent a riff
through our family and friends. My
mother is constantly talking to other
families who have
loved ones involved
in current operations
for support. She has
been reminded of my
deceased grandfather who was a
Marine veteran of the Second World
War.

My father has been reminded
of his time in the service. In fact, he
was stationed in Okinawa, Japan
when my sister was born. When he
told his mother of the news about
my sister, my grandmother was
brought to tears.

My entire family has realized de-
ployment was a possibility from the
very beginning of my sister’s military

 

LEFT or CENTER
NICK RAMSEY ‘O5

career. The week my sister was fully
commissioned as an officer was also
the week of September 1 1, 2001. It was
apparent from day one of her career
that being a military ofﬁcer means
more than it had in decades.

So knowing all this, why am I still
skeptical over this war? During the
Cuban missile crisis, President
Kennedy came to the American pub-
lie with detailed infor-
mation of the threat
posed on the Ameri-
can people.

While Bush’s
State of the Union Address alluded to
information that American intelligence
has gathered about the threat of Iraq, I
need more. I am extremely anxious to
hear what Colin Powell has to say after
meeting with the United Nations this
Wednesday.

For Bush to win my support on a
preemptive strike on any nation, I need
to know exactly what the threat is. To
legitimize the Commander in Chief ’s
order that has uprooted my sister from
her husband, her job, and her coun-

try and set her down in a war zone on
the other side of the globe, I need to
know that her presence there is the
only way to solve the world’s current
problems. Every American deserves
to know why their family and friends
in our Armed Forces have been sent
to ﬁght a war. After all, this is our gov-
emment.

Liberals calling for peace have
been called un-American and unpa-
triotic. People say they do not sup-
port our military. Truly, nothing could
be further from the truth.

I support the men and women
who have sacrificed so much more
than I ever could in the service of
this country. However, there is
nothing un-American about a
healthy political discourse ques-
tioning our leaders who command
our military. This type of demo-
cratic discourse is often the result
of people like myself who have a
personal interest in the safety of
the American military. When I ques-
tion war, my older sister is the first
thing on my mind.

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 5, 2005

Bush “dead on” taxes

I’m sure you’ve heard the saying “Born free, taxed
to death.” If only it were that simple. Unfortunately, in
America, taxation doesn’t end there. In our Brave New
World, we tax the dead to pay those who don’t work.
Aldous Huxley would be proud.

Recently, Nobel-laureate Milton Friedman penned
an op-ed in the Wall Street Journal in whichhe pro-
claimed support for President Bush’s newest proposed
tax cut, the center-

piece of which is a T‘.
$670 billion reduction RIGHT ON‘

in the tax sharehold— IOHN  HEATH ‘O4
ers pay on dividends.

Friedman claimed he supported the tax cut not because
he agreed that taxing dividends twice is unfair (which it
is), but because he supports any tax cut because de-
creased revenues should force a reduction in govem-
ment spending.

F riedman’s point provides a refreshing perspec-
tive. Too often, professional politicians turn economic
questions—like ones of taxation—into political hot po-
tatoes. Friedman and his fellow economists dismiss
class-warfare demagoguery as rightly irrelevant: if tax
cuts are an effective vehicle for getting the govem-
ment out of our private lives, then, as Tom DeLay says,
“(he’s) never met a tax out he didn’t like.”

The problem, of course, is that Democrats, who
never met a government program they didn’t like, rely
on the revenue from taxes to fund spending programs
that help their core constituents. The ironic reality is
that they are applying a $100 solution to a $5 problem.
If instead of funding out-of-work drug addicts and
welfare queens in perpetuity the government cut off
the money spigot and steered them to vocational train-
ing, the govemment’s long-run costs would decrease
and productivity would increase.

Of course, the Democrats will ﬁght tooth and nail
to avoid this; if the people who make up the Demo-
crats’ base stop depending on the windfall of federal
dollars and start participating in the capitalist system,
they might start voting Republican.

Are there other tax cuts that might make more
sense then a dividend tax cut? Sure. To start, the gov-
ernment could make the FICA withholding tax fair.
One of the most duplicitous government programs is
the “split” of FICA withholding. Under the current
system, an employee contributes 7.5% to FICA, while
his employer “contributes” a matching 7.5%. In real-
ity, however, the employer calculates his 7.5% contri-
bution in his overall accounting for the cost of each
employee. Thus, we are presented with the situation
in which the employee is paying the full 15% (since
the employer would be prepared to pay the employee
an extra 7.5% if the tax was not in place). In essence,

an “employer contribution.” 1 ' ' ' ‘

Though ameliorating that problem would top my
personal “to-do” list, the Bush tax cut still endures as
an important vehicle to realize the Friedman doctrine.
Of course, there are two sides two this coin. The vision
of government limited to only “needs” (as opposed to
“wants”) can only be realized if leaders possess the
political courage to force government to live within its
means. Politicians debating and horse—trading over a
tax cut do no good if they spend an equal amount of
time debating and horse—trading over a growth in spend-
ing for their favorite federal project.

Fortunately, not all branches of the federal bu-
reaucracy share Congress’s love of spending the
people’s money. In South Dakota v. Dole, Justice Sandra
Day O’Connor famously wrote, “The immense size and
power of the Government of the United States ought
not obscure its fundamental character. It remains a
Government of enumerated powers.” Let’s hope that

 

J. Sam Slicer, 1898L
Katie J. Howell

Brett T. Kirwan
Catherine C. Guy

J eb Brooks

Erin Julius

Caley Anderson
Tallie Jamison

Cody Gabband

Donny Banks

Founder

Editor in chief
Opinions Editor
Arts & Life Editor
Photo Editor
Sports Editor
Asst. News Editor
Photographers

Copy Editor

Paul Seifert
Thomas Worthy
Henry Grimball
McQueen Calvert

Business Manager
Asst. Business Manager
, Circulation Director
Advertising Assistant

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee Univer-
sity, Lexington, Virginia. The Washington and Lee Publi-
cations Board elects the Editor in chief, but The Ring—tum
Phi is otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible submis-
sions and letters. All submissions must be e-mailed to
phi@wlu.edu or in the University Center mailbox by 5
p.m. Friday to appear in the following week’s edition. The
Ring-tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for con-
tent and length. Letters and columns do not necessarily
reﬂect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Ad-
vertising does not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi
or its staff This newspaper observes current court deﬁni-
tions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Mailing Address: University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Street Address: 31 Washington Street
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Fax: (540) 462-4059
Email: phi@wlu.edu

http://phi.wlu.edu

Letters to the Editor

Ad could pose threat to students

Dear Editor,

I’m writing in regard to the ad soliciting phone books
that you ran on page two of the January 27th edition. I am
offended by your lack of respect for the personal privacy
of every member of the W&L community.

Do you not recall the situation a couple. of years
ago when a registered sex offender living close to cam-
pus purchased an ad in a campus paper asking for phone
books? I’ll go ahead and blame you guys if there’s an
increase in telemarketers calling. Yes, I know that le-
gally it’s not an invasion of my privacy for you to be
running an ad that will quite possibly lead to some-
body I may or may not know selling another stranger
my phone number. But that’s just semantics, which I
will not argue about. '

I also know that, yes, my phone number is available
on the school’s website for anyone to see. But I think
there’s a bit of a difference here. And I know that you say
that ads run in the paper do not reﬂect the opinions of the

 

 

“3 -2 beer. (so  fresh-
men can drink)”
-Chip Muir ‘03L

“Heineken.”

 

-Penin Monroe ‘06

wisdom can make the trek to Capitol Hill.

paper or its staff. They do seem, however, to reﬂect your
ability to make good choices.

Sincerely,

Glenn DeLaney ‘03

Editor is Note:

The Phi, too, is concerned about the possibility
of deceptive advertisements. As such, we carefully inves-
tigate the source, authenticity and legitimate intentions
of any advertisement we print. ‘

MSA continues as campus punching bag

Dear Editor,

Every time I open up a campus paper there is yet
another eyebrow—raising article about the Minority Stu-
dent Association inside. In the most recent article (“Blacks
rush, pledge,” January 27) the MSA was accused of seg-
regating minority students from Greek life at W&L.

That false accusation is just one of many prob-
lems. First of all, the title of the article was “Blacks rush,

Pledge,” then the writer goes on to speak of minorities.
Throughout the article the terms blacks, African-Ameri-
cans, and minorities are used interchangeably. However,
the term minority also includes Asians, Hispanics, and
Paciﬁc Islanders as well as any other race, creed or ethnicity
not represented in the majority. Why then does the writer
only choose to discuss black students when using the
term minority?

Another issue that I have with the article is that the
writer, (Sharyn) Regan, apparently did not do any research
as to ﬁnd out why many black students on campus chose
not to rush. The MSA is a group organization and as
W&L students we all know that it is very possible and
extremely common for a student to be a part of more than
one activity, so how would the MSA prevent a student
from participating in Greek life?

The answer is simple, it doesn’t. This brings me to
Regan’s idea that the MSA segregates black students from
W&L social life. If this is true then what segregates the

SEE LETTERS, PAGE 5

 

“A Kamikaze achme.”
-Tiffany Todd ‘06

 

“Corona.”
-Kevin Pharris ‘O6

    

 ‘uinnes.” I
-John Gafﬁiey ‘O6

 

the government double‘-taxes employees by calling it I

 

 

  

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 5, 2003

:l-‘J ll

 

 
 

1‘ He spoke decisively, ﬁrmly, and
with the conﬁdence of a man who
knows what he is doing. Our Presi-
dent, George W. Bush, addressed the
nation last Tuesday with the air of a

It seasoned statesman—not quite the
likes of Churchill but up there with
Kennedy—-and delivered to Ameri-
cans a message of hope in a time of
increasing uncertainty. He expressed
faith in the view which most Ameri-

leans fervently hope is true: that
America is pursuing the best path for
its future, and that of the world.

1 Contrary to what some had ex-
pected, he did not declare war on Iraq,
or any other nation for that matter. In
fact, although he did address our con-
cerns abroad sensitively and persua-

V sively, domestic issues dominated the
ﬁrst half of his speech, an appropri-
ate dichotomy for a man who deals
with things with such simplicity and
rationality. On the domestic front, the
President addressed the concerns of
a broad range of Americans, reﬂect-
ing his bipartisan sensibilities despite
his ﬁrmly conservative principles.

4 The President spoke ﬁrst and
foremost about the economy. He

pointed out that despite the “reces- »

sion, terrorist attacks, corporate scan-
' dals, and stock market declines, our
' economy is recovering.” He noted,
however, that it is not growing fast
enough, either for him or for the aver-
age American. It is to the latter that he
‘K spoke directly, urging the formation
of more small businesses. He de-
manded tax cuts because “the best
and fairest way to make sure Ameri-
‘ cans have. . .money is not to tax it
away in the first place.” All of the Re-
publicans in the Congress stood to
applaud the President, while nary a
Democrat deigned to lift his well-pad-
!’ ded rear, a ﬁtting response for a Con-
gress that in the aftermath of the 2002
election better reﬂects the true Ameri-
can demographic.

Most importantly on the eco-
nomic front, the President spoke of
fairness. Far from beneﬁting only the
rich, he clearly displayed his concern
for the average Ameri-
7 can. Aside from his tax
cuts, he spoke of a
_ budget that he will be
‘ sending to Congress
that reﬂects only the most important
priorities in America, one that in-
creases at the rate the average family’s
income is expected to grow next year:
four percent.

Speaking to those concerned
about social security, healthcare, the
environment, and social decay, the
President proposed smart solutions.
He reaffirmed his call for individual
retirement accounts for younger work-
ers to invest in, and denounced a na-
tionalized health plan that would only
deteriorate the quality of health care
3 in the long—run. In its place, he sought

Medicare reform with his election
promise of prescription drug cover-
age, and, most appropriately, he called
for the return of the health care sys-
" tem to those who know it best: doc-
tors, nurses, and patients. He noted
that “no one has ever been healed by
a frivolous lawsuit.” Not surprisingly,
, the man who made his millions help-
ing to inﬂate the costs of American
medicine, former trial lawyer and 2004
Democratic presidential hopeful,
Senator John Edwards, did not stand

’' to applaud.
The President called for power
plants that will be 70 percent cleaner
within 15 years, and proposed an ini-

  
    

4

   

I
. The authority on
' , Washington and Lee
I y for 106 years.
rr
tr
it
J. Samuel Slicer 1898L, FOUNDER
V o
Ring—tum Phi,
Sticken'—bum!
We are the stuff
7 From Lexington!

 

  ‘Bush deliver p



 

IONS
edid SOTU

(I).Rll5YZl1Lll/.  r *-

SERIOUS SOTU. President Bush gave a clear, determined and impassioned speech.

tiative to prevent devastating forest
ﬁres. For the truly environmentally
neurotic, he called for the develop-
ment—complete with $1.2 billion in
federal funding!of hydrogen—pow-
ered cars. To help heal America’s less
fortunate, he suggested an array of
reforms, new programs, and over a
billion dollars in direct funding for
community—based programs. With the
compassion of a man who himself has
suffered from alcohol and drug addic-
tion, he reminded us that “the miracle
of recovery is possible.”

Less than a week after the 30”‘
anniversary of Roe vs. Wade, the
President afﬁrmed the fundamental
right to life that every human being
enjoys. He called for the banning of
the barbaric and unnecessary prac-

tice of partial—birth

 abortion, a measure"

President Clinton

IMRAN NAEEMUU-AH ‘05 never had the guts to

sign. He also urged a
ban on all form of a human cloning in
the spirit of respecting the sanctity
of creation. Critically, he said that do-
ing so would set a high standard for
humanity, another sign of his leader-
ship of America and the example it
sets for the world.

In what might be the showcase
of his compassionate agenda, the
President announced‘ his desire to
have the Congress authorize $15 bil-
lion in funding over the next ﬁve
years, fully two—thirds of it new
money, to help fight the global
scourge of AIDS in the places where
it hurts the most: Africa and the Car-
ibbean. His proposal is unsurpassed
in its scope by any other, and is a
profound example of mercy mixed
with common sense.

It is this theme of common sense
that permeated the next half of the
speech, dealing with the issues of in-
ternational terrorism and other threats
to the security of America, her friends,
and her allies. He recommended almost
$6 billion in vaccines against lethal dis-
eases like smallpox, and instructed the
nation’s intelligence agencies to merge
their information and combine their ef-
forts, a sign that he comprehends the
dangers that face us daily.

He took the strongest stance
possible on the issue of freedom hat-
ers, and he pointed out that in the last
century, Hitlerism, militarism, and
Communism were all defeated by
those who love freedom, with the
United States in the lead. He reported
that the United States is working on
common-sense arms control, and sup-
ported the people of Iran in their
struggle against a tyrannical and op-
pressive theocratic regime. His solu-
tion to the North Korean problem is
to lead by example along with South
Korea, Japan, China, and Russia,
showing the North Koreans that
nuclear weapons can only have nega-
tive consequences. Let’s see if their
mad dictator listens.

Finally, and most importantly from
a foreign affairs standpoint, the Presi-
dent made what will hopefully be his
ﬁnal case against Iraq before change
for the good occurs. He made it very
clear for all present that Iraq has pro-
duced weapons of mass destruction
in the past, has continued to produce
them in deﬁance of the United Nations,
and has made little to no signs of de-
stroying them or revealing them to the
world. No doubt Saddam Hussein in-
tends to reveal them, but not in quite
the way one would want. Therefore,
as the President so unmistakably put
it, “If Saddam Hussein does not ﬁilly
disarm, for the safety of our people and
for the peace of the world, we will lead
a coalition to disann him.” In doing so,
he satisﬁed the (mostly) Lefties who
are hell-bent on having every nation
in the world agree that action is neces-
sary by promising to seek cooperation,
all the while staying true to his prin-
ciples by refusing to back down in the
face of irrational opposition.

It was a masterful speech, one that
reﬂected the transition President Bush
has made from mediocre speaker to a
near master of the genre. He seized the
moment, and made his case for a better
and more just America clearly, con-
cisely, and calmly. Far from the nefari-
ous cowboy the liberal press portrays
him as, he showed that he is a balanced,
capable, and competent leader who will
bring us through this difficult time and
deliver us to a better future.

 

# 1 Spring Break Vacations!

Cancun, Jamaica, Bahamas, & Florida.
Best Parties, Best Hotels, Best Prices!
Group Discounts, Group organizers travel free!
Space is limited! Hurry up & Book Now!
1-800-234-7007
www.endlesssummertours.com

2 bedroom apartment for rent in Lexington
for next school year for $550.00 per month.
Living room/kitchen and 1 bath.

Low cost central heat and air conditioning.
Owner pays for water & sewer.
Common area washer & dryer.

Call Realtor Joe Vita at Vita & Associates, Inc.
at 463-9551 for details.

 

Larnans, FROM PAGE 4

white students or the international students who chose
not to participate in the rush activities or choose not to
join a fraternity or sorority? It is as if the black students
cannot be independent for the same reasons other
students choose to be independent. Some students just
do not have an interest in the Greek life system as a
whole, regardless of their race and it is wrong to say
that black students have a closed mind (especially if
you have never asked a black student) about fraternities
and sororities just because they opt not to join one.

My suggestion to Regan and anyone else who
decides to relieve some of their daily stress by taking a
punch at the MSA is to get the facts. For example, al-
though all of the black students who rushed did join a
fraternity or sorority, not all of the minority students who
rushed decided to join. If you are truly concerned about
integrating black students into the W&L social scene it
would be advantageous for you to interact with some-
especially before writing an article about them. Lastly, to
the cornucopia of writers who target the MSA in the cam-
pus papers, I would occasionally like to see a legitimate
quote from a member of the MSA or your notes from the
latest MSA meeting in your article because it is just bad
journalism to write on something to which you have no
accurate knowledge.
Sincerely,
Kristin Evans ‘06

Pre-Roe v. Wade, women not supported

Dear Editor,

I have never been confronted with the decision to
have an abortion. I have never, to tell the truth, been preg-
nant. And I don’t know what that decision would be if I
had to make it. I’d like to think that I would not feel as if
abortion had to be considered as one of my options. Be-

cause, honestly, abortion is killing a living creature. Spe- *

ciﬁcally, a child. However, I disagree with some of Brett
Kirwan’s article (“Abortion kills children,” January 27).

He stated that before abortion, accidental pregnan-
cies were supported by family and friends. Unfortunately,
I don’t think that was any more true then than it is now. It
was still considered an embarrassment, or a monumental
and nearly irreversible mistake, leading to illegal or self-
induced abortions which in turn often led to health difﬁ-
culties and even death.

I would agree with Patricia Heaton in her statement
that abortion is a sign that we have failed women. Rather
than targeting abortion, or the legalization of such, as the
main cause and failing, perhaps we should see it as just
one of the symptoms. Many, although I’m sure not all,
people who have abortions feel that they have no alterna-
tive. Shouldn’t there be more pressure on education and
options? Not everyone has the access to money that
makes it possible to provide for a child. Girls may feel that
they can’t even admit to being pregnant, to say nothing
of having a child. For some, abortion may not be the easy
way out, but the only way out. And that is what needs to
be changed.

Sincerely,
Mathilde Hungerford ‘06

Bible condemns homosexuality

Dear Editor,

Nick Ramsey (“Safe Place follows tradition of
W&L,” January 27) makes a poor argument regarding
the meaning of “know” in Genesis 19:5. Besides the
KJV, there are ﬁve other translations of the Bible that
explicitly link “know” with a sexual act: “have sex with”
(NIV), “have relations with” (with a note, “i.e., have
intercourse,” NASB), “be intimate with” (AMP), “have
sex with” (NLT) and “have sex with” (CEV). While ho-
mosexuality need not have been “the sin” of Sodom, it
is clear from context that “know” is not meant merely as
a desire to meet.

A better argument from the Old Testament against
homosexuality is from Leviticus 18:22, “You shall not
lie with a male as one lies with a female; it is an abomi-
nation” (NASB).

In the New Testament, Jesus may not speciﬁcally
address homosexuality, but most Christians also ac-
cept the authority of the Paulian Epistles.

In I Corinthians 6:9-10, Paul writes, “Do not be de-
ceived; neither fomicators, nor idolaters, nor adulter-
ers, nor effeminate, nor homosexuals, nor thieves, nor
the covetous, nor drunkards, nor revilers, nor swin-
dlers, shall inherit the kingdom of God.”

Regardless of the validity of Keeling’s feelings to-
ward Safe Place, his opinion of homosexuality is valid
within a biblical Christian tradition.

Sincerely,
Kyle Sulli ‘06

PAGE 5

Ramsey responds:

When I referred to translations of the word
"know ” in the story of Sodom and Gomorrah, I was refer-
ring to the original Hebrew text, not the multiple En-
glish translations you referred to. There are ﬁve diﬂerent
Hebrew words meaning “to know. ” The one that refers to
carnal knowledge is not the one used in the original
Hebrew version of the story.

Passages in the Bible have been used to legiti-
mize slavery, segregation, apartheid, and the subordina-
tion of women; not everyone interprets it correctly. Christ
taught love and acceptance. This is something that needs
no interpretation.

Safe Place is on the web

Dear Editor,

Regarding the recent editorials in the Phi (Nick
Ramsey, “Safe Place follows tradition of W&L,” January
27), on Safe Place, I thought you might be interested to
know that there is a Web site for the program: http://
multiculturallife.wlu.edu/safeplace/.

Contrary to covering up its existence, the administra— .

tion hopes that this site will help people learn more about
the program. It also offers downloadable Safe Place sym-
bols for people to print out and post.

The link to the site can be found on the Campus Life
section of the W&L gateway page.
Sincerely,
Jessica Carter
Web Writer and Editor for External Relations

Abortion better off legal

Dear Editor,

I was very disturbed to read the articles entitled
“Abortion Kills Children” and “Pro-lifers look to save
Constitution” in last week’s Phi. First off, I am pro-choice
not pro-abortion. I am not of the mindset that all children
should be aborted, which is what being pro-abortion
would imply. I am pro-choice, meaning, I ﬁilly support a
woman’s right to choose what she wants to do concem-
ing her body.

A common misconception is that with the ruling on
Roe vs. Wade the practice of abortion began. In medi-
eval times, midwives and doctors used herbs such as
Queen Anne’s lace, rue, and iris that would terminate
unwanted pregnancies. Long before it was legal, women
were seeking out unlicensed doctors to perform these
illegal acts. While your descriptions of the procedures
by which an abortion is obtained are gruesome, at least
they are done in safe, sterile environments by doctors
who are medically trained to perform such procedures,
thereby inﬂicting the least amount of long term damage
on the mother.

As for children being “a gift from God,” last time I
hecked a fetus developed after a sperm fertilized an egg,
not when God deemed a female worthy of Her gifts. Let’s
not kid ourselves, “God” has nothing to do with the
sexual union of a horny guy and girl.

It is easy for you to sit there in judgment of a situa-
tion that you can never ﬁnd yourself in using God as
your justiﬁcation. Fortunately, at least for now, the Su-
preme Court provides my justiﬁcation. When it comes
down to it, a woman’s body is her business. Abortion is
legal. Deal with it.

Sincerely,
Rian Lewis ‘05

Ramsey right on Safe Place

Dear Editor,

Kudos to Nick Ramsey for having the balls to sub-
mit his opinion (“Safe Place follows tradtion of W&L,”
January 27) regarding Keeling’s “concem” for the Safe
Place here at Washington and Lee. Safe Place is a re-
markable step forward for this otherwise conservative
institution. It illustrates that the administration acknowl-
edges that there are indeed students who lead alternate
lifestyles on campus and is actually doing something
to make their time here as comfortable as possible, to
include them into the body of the school, to offer them
support.

I applaud the administration, faculty, and students
who have fought to have the Safe Place remain at this
ﬁne institution. And I take my hat off to Ramsey for
expressing his opinion and pointing out some very rel-
evant facts in this regard. Our generation can not sim-
ply sit back and be complacent. We need to move for-
ward so that we are not left behind. And so too do you,
Mr. Keeling.

Sincerely,
Ethan Jameson ‘06

WANTED: Summer Scholars Counselors
June 25 - July 26, 2003

Are you looking for a great chance to be a mentor and to
experience working with high school students while staying
at W&L for the month of July? The Washington and Lee
Summer Scholars Program is an exciting four week aca-
demic program for approximately 150 rising high school
seniors. We are looking for responsible students to help
guide participants and to plan extracurricular activities such
as talent shows, lip synchs, weekend hikes, trips to Goshen
and more.

For information about the position please contact Dr. Mimi
Milner Elrod at 458-8727. You may pick up an application
from Jennifer Lotts (458-8722) in the Summer Scholars
Office located in the Hill House.

The deadline for turning in applications is February 28,
2003.

 

PAGE 6

Stonewall Jackson House

BY HAYNES KING
rRAvEL CORRESPONDENT

You have probably passed our next travel attraction a
hundred times while walking to and from Davidson Park,
but W&L students often overlook one of the most
important historical aspects of Lexington. The Stonewall
Jackson house is located on Washington Street just up
from the Visitor’s Center, and if you have not visited, you’re
deﬁnitely missing out on an important piece of local history
and culture.

Although it is not nearly so spectacular a residence
as Jefferson’s own creation and home, Monticello, this
three-story brick house is the only home that Jackson
ever owned. After he graduated from West Point Military
Academy and served in the Mexican War, Jackson moved
here to Lexington, Virginia to teach at VMI. With his second
wife, he purchased this residence. I’m no expert on
Jackson’s life or military history, but the house and tour
present a wonderful representation of Jackson’s life prior
to serving in the Confederate Army.

He left this home to gain his stature as a great general
in the beginning of the war. Jackson was mortally wounded
by friendly fire when one of his men ﬁred and did not see
Jackson ahead of him, accidentally killing one of the
South’s greatest generals.

Not only does admission to the house include a

guided tour, but it also presents to the visitors a
seasonally changing feature topic downstairs. At the
time that I toured the house, the attraction discussed the
different uniforms of General J ackson. However, by the
end of February, the house will feature the original quilts
of the Jackson house.

If you are planning on staying here in the Lexington
area during the summer, the Jackson house hires
students to help give tours during the peak summer
tourist hours of the week and weekend. The staff is
extremely friendly and enthusiastic, and they obviously
enjoy what they do. Unfortunately, they are quite
disappointed in the small number of both W&L and
VMI students that visit the house, and hope more will
not pass up the opportunity to tour this historical spot.
To go to school here for four years and never visit the
house would be a disappointment, and you would be
missing out on one of the treasures of Historic
Lexington. J eb and I give the Stonewall Jackson House,
its tour and the nearby cemetery in which Jackson is
buried (deﬁnitely worth a trip down Main Street) four
out of ﬁve tridents.

Haynes & Jeb give Stonewall Jackson House 4 of 5 Tridents.

 

 

Next week, Haynes and J eb will leave Lexington
to see some of the sights of the surrounding area.

Hall divided

TIII: RlNt}~TlEM PHI

RTS

  

CATHERINE ccui
ARTS 8: LIFE EDITOR

EMAIL ouYc@wLu.EDg

LIFE

 

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 3, 2005

proves deserving of student attention,

Jm 7beRing4umPbi

AN AMERICAN ICON: Stonewall Jackson House is located On Washington Street in downtown Lexington. Jackson is one of the most acclaimed figures On the campus of
Our illustrious next—dOor neighbor, the Virginia Military Institute, where he served as a professor. The house is a historical gem and is often, unfortunately, overlooked
by students from both campuses here in Lexington. It does, however, attract numerous tourists and historical buffs each year in search of American cultural enrichment. y

cannot stand

Every September, incoming
freshmen arrive on that ﬁrst day of
orientation week, excited about the
new experiences facing them. Over
the course of that ﬁrst week, freshmen
go to meals, meetings, and parties with
their new good friends — their
hallmates. Hall bonding is inevitable;
whether it’s with a roommate or

elitism that has characterized the
Greek system in the past is
noticeably fading away, but
fraternity and sorority stereotypes
are still strong enough to affect our
perceptions. Think about it - when
you identify an individual at this
school, that person’s Greek status
is an inseparable part of their

someone two doors identification.
down, you are bound ~-- “W V ~~~~~~~~ -- Here’s an example:
to developafriendship, ABSOLUTE FRATLORD “Who’s Kerry
simply by living with TIM SMITH ‘O4 Kellogg? I hear
people in close contact. “W” e ’ s the
So for that entire ﬁrst term, though coolest!”...“Oh, he’s a junior

you will certainly make new friends in
class, on sports teams or at parties,
you are closest to the people on your
hall.

Then comes Christmas Break.
Then comes Rush Week. And as I’ve
written in my previous articles, Rush
Week changes everything. For those
who join Greek organizations, Rush
Week creates an entirely new group
for you to spend time with: your
pledge brothers and sisters. Part of
the idea behind pledgeship is to
foster a bond between the new
pledge classes — thus, many
fraternities require their pledges to
at least eat together or walk with each
other on the Hill. These intentions
are good, but with all the time
pledges spend doing frat stuff, some
personal relationships are bound to
suffer. Hall friendships are often the
ﬁrst to go.

There is no way to pinpoint
exactly why these friendships fade.
The most practical reason is this
previously mentioned problem of time.
It’s tough to hang out with your
hallmates if you spend all your time
with your pledge class and new
fraternity brothers. But what if we
ignore the time issue completely?
There might be other less obvious
reasons for the demise of hall
friendships. L

Stereotypes are almost certainly
involved. Thankfully, the social

member of X

PIKA.” Sometimes it seems like we
are identiﬁed by our Greek status
first, and then by our personality
second. If this
is the case, then

without a second thought. Girls
usually place more importance in
their previous friendships. That’s
just because they’re girls I guess.
During my ﬁrst week at W&L, I
went to parties with Mike Denbow,
Luke Williams, and David Bode.
Along with Andrew Bahl, Davis
Rust, & Chris Stanek, we
represented the Gilliam Dungeon as
perhaps the most random group of
people ever. The term went on and
everyone inevitably followed his
own interests. I, of course, was an
intense Scrabble lover; Denbow and
Bode did basketball; Stainer and
Rust did LAX stuff I guess; Bahl
had football, and Luke did whatever
is it was that Luke liked to do (no
one really cared

how could to ask too
. . . THERE Is NO WAY TO

joining a house much...). By the
not affect PINPOINT EXACTLY “I” end of Rush
s o In e o n e ’ s THESE FRIENDSHIPS FADE. Week, we had a
perceptions? THE MOST PRACTICAL Lambda Chi, a
After Rush REASON IS THE PROBLEM OF KA’ three Pi”
Week, every TIME BUT WHATIFWE Kaps, one Sig
thing starts over ' Ep and one SAE.
again. All IGNORE THE TIME ISSUE Then, of
relationships COMPLETELY? THERE c o u r s e ,

continue or
cease with the
knowledge that
you are a new

fraternity or

sorority. Ideally,

people would never be that shallow,
but hey, this is Washington & Lee
(“we’re not snobs, we’re just better
than youl”).

Of course, not all halls are
completely fragmented. Often,
entire sections ofa hall go to one
house — these friends remain
tight, but are isolated in their own
little bubble within the dorm.
Then there is the natural guy
versus girl comparison — both
genders suffer from hall
fragmentation, but guys are
usually content to let it happen

MIGHT BE OTHER LESS
OBVIOUS REASONS FOR THE
DEMISE OF HALL
FRIENDSHIPS.

e v e r y t h i n g
c h a n g e d .
Denbow is still
the man. Luke
always cracks
me up in the
Coop, and now
he’s re-enrolled, thank goodness. I’ll
see the other 5 guys around on the
Hill, exchange greetings, but that’s
about it. The memories are still fresh.
Davis and the ﬁre extinguisher. Luke
and his waxed dreadlocks and the
dollar bills left in my fridge. Denbow
getting his minutes. And just Bahl
being himself. The Gilliam Dungeon
was the place to be, without a doubt.
But after pledgeship began, the hall
became secondary to our new lives
as pledges. And in the spirit of
Vonnegut coming to Lex Vegas. . . .so

it goes.

Film Society plans winter cinematic selections

FROM STAFF REPORTS

The Washington and Lee Film Society will present
the quirky and comic “Punch—Drunk Love” (USA,
2002), directed by Paul Thomas Anderson.

Screenings will be on Friday and Saturday,
February 7 and 8, at 7:30 PM in the Troubadour Cinema.
There is no charge for admission, although
contributions are welcome. This ﬁlm is in English and
is rated “R” for very strong language.

Adam Sandler for Valentine’s Day? Oﬂicially billed
as a romantic comedy, this ﬁlm might be less complex
than Anderson’s previous Boogie Nights and
Magnolia, yet it still reﬂects the ﬁlmmaker’s creativity
and love of the medium. Sandler retains some of his
angry-young—doofus persona, but here his love affair
with Lena (played by the luminous Emily Watson) is
perfectly believable and even charming.

A.O. Scott wrote in the New York Times that “No

mere plot summary can do justice to the wild, sweet it
pleasures of Punch—Drunk Love...poetry is perhaps
the best way to think about Mr. Anderson’s suave,
exuberant balance of free-form inspiration and formal
control. In this, his fourth feature, he is still very much
a movie-mad adolescent, sprinkling his work with
gleeful allusions and playful rip-offs of whatever strikes
his fancy.”

The Film Society has also released a list of the

ﬁlms to be shown for the remainder of Winter Term. All I

of these movies will be shown at the Troubador Cinema
and, as always, are free of charge. On February 28 and
March 1, the 2000 South Korean ﬁlm “Chunhyang”,
which was directed by Kwon-taek Im, will be shown.

OH THE WEATHER OUTSIDE IS FRIGHTFUL

RUNNING BUDDIES: The cold and blustery weather does not deter Professor Holt Merchant and
Dean David Howison from running around Washington and L_ee’s track together each afternoon.

On March 14 and 15, the 2002 US ﬁlm “Bowling for '
Colombine” directed by Michael Moore will be
presented. On March 21 and 22, the 2002 US ﬁlm
“Frida”, directed by Julie Taymor, will be shown. All of
these ﬁlms are rated “R”. yr
)\
1'
V
E)‘
3
V
I JR BRooKs/ THE RING-TUM l’III
.3‘

 

 

    
 

ERINJUIIIIS
'3 SPORTS EDITOR
EMAIL: JLHIUSE@WLU.F.DU

'E‘léf. litre;-”ttILIi lilill

MONDAY, FEBRIIARY 5, 2005

‘Generals rack up

PORT

ore losses

 

 

COl)YG.»\BBORl)/ 7beRing—tumPbi

,' Hoop. Senior captain Steve Hostetter goes up for a layup against Bridgewater during last Wednesdays home game.

BY ALLISON PERRY
SPORTS \‘("RlTER

i, The Washington and Lee men’s
basketball team added two more
losses to their record this week in
close games. The Generals fell to
McDaniel, 66-69, on Tuesday and

‘to Bridgewater, 64-66 on Wednes-
day.

McDaniel guard Bryant Dull
helped to pull out the win with a shot

,from three-point range with 11 sec-
onds left.

The Generals were leading at the
half, 42-37, with 58.3 percent shoot-
ing, but dropped to 28.6 percent in

j ' the second half.
v~ Senior captain Scott Hetterrnann
posted a season and game high of 23
points and led W&L with 10.re-

‘bounds. _

Junior captain Michael Denbow
scored a career-high 13 points.

' The’Generals’ ‘23”‘tur’n‘overs‘

were a problem, overshadowing
their 40-28 lead in rebounds. The
non-conference loss dropped
W&L in overall standings to 5-
11.

The Bridgewater Eagles handed
W&L another ODAC loss Wednes-
day night in Warner Center. With 1.9
« seconds left to go in the game, sopho-

4

7

 

more guard Ricky Easterling sank two
free throws.

The Eagles opened a 29-23 lead
going into the half, but the Generals
mounted a comeback late in the sec-
ond half. Denbow tied the game up
with a lay-up after making a steal at
0:34 left in the game. He snagged a
total of ﬁve steals in the game.

“I thought our inside game
struggled a little bit, and that was be-
cause David Will had been coming off
a sickness,” Denbow said. “Overall it
was a ﬁne game. They made shots.
We made shots, and they just made
two more free throws in the end.”

W&L sophomore guard Ian McClure
led the team with 1 8 points by hitting 6-of-
9 from behind the three-point arc.

Junior forward Hamill Jones
added 13 points, and sophomore
guard Mike Stuart totaled 10 points.

The Generals cut down on turn-
overs with a season-low of twelve for

" the night.’ The team has*'also been

working on shooting.

“We’ve been in lots of games this
year, and we go ﬁat a little bit offen-
sively,” W&L head coach Jeff Lafave
said. “Just getting extra shots, that’s
probably what we’ve been trying to
work on the most.”

Denbow attributed some of the
strengths for the team to the crowd in

Wednesday night’s close game.

“The number one thing was that
the crowd was awesome,” Denbow
said. “It was the best crowd I’ve ever
played for here at W&L.”

Bridgewater has now won ﬁve
straight games over W&L. The win
puts the Eagles at 1 1-6 overall, 5-5 in
the ODAC.

The Generals hope to snap the
losing streak with the Eagles when
they meet them again on Feb. 18.

W&L lost 57-47 on the road
Saturday when they played in
Roanoke. The Generals lost to the
Maroons 53-65 at home on Jan.
11.

Lafave had several things for the
team to work on in preparation for
Saturday’s game with Roanoke.

“They’re a very big team, so
we’ve got to try to rebound better
than we did the first game,” Lafave
said. “We’ve got to try to rebound

the ball and get back in transition de- '

fense. Those are the things that
we’ve always had to do against
Roanoke.”

The Generals are now 1 1-8 over-.
all and 8-4 in the ODAC. They play
Emory and Henry on Wednesday to
try and break their seven game losing
streak. The conference match-up will
be at 7:00 p.m. in Emory.

PAGE 7

Women’s basketball
falls to EMU, Roanoke

BY JOHN HYIAND
SPORTS WRITER

The Washington and Lee
women’s basketball team lost 61-46
to ODAC foe Eastern Mennonite last
Tuesday night at home. The loss
dropped the Generals’ record to 2-13,
2-1 1 ODAC while the win improved
Eastern Mennonite’s record to 13-4,
8-4 ODAC. This game, however, was
closer than the score indicated.

It was the second time the two
teams had squared off this season.
The ﬁrst meeting ending in a 69-47
Eastern Mennonite victory. ,

This time, Generals led the Roy-
als 21-20 at the half, in a period that
featured tenacious, physical defense
from both teams with neither team
shooting above 30% from the ﬂoor.

Freshman guard Louisa Feve
spurred on the Generals, scoring 7 of
her 9 points towards the end of the
first half.

The Generals were only out-re-
bounded 37-36 despite facing an East-
ern Mennonite team that held a sig-
niﬁcant size advantage. At times EMU
was able to boast a front line consist-
ing of three players over 6 feet.

The Generals’ ability to stay
competitive on the boards could be
largely attributed to their hustle and
the play of senior center and Co—cap-

tain Austin Calhoun, who, despite
standing only 5-1 I, managed to grab
11 rebounds. The turnover battle
was also close, with each team com-
mitting 17.

The Royals, however,
opened the second half on a 19-8
run and the Generals were never
able to recover. To make matters
worse, senior forward and Co—cap-
tain Elizabeth Igo leﬁ the game with
a left knee injury during the run at
the 1 1 :38 mark and did not return.

She remains sidelined indeﬁ-
nitely. Igo ﬁnished the game with 6
points and 3 rebounds.

The Royals’ depth was the dif-
ference in the second half. 1 1 play-
ers saw action for the Royals while
only 7 players for W&L saw signiﬁ-
cant playing time. This advantage
enabled the Royals to implement a
full court press early in the second
half that confounded the Generals,
leading to a number of easy bas-
kets for the Royals.

The Royals shot 54% from the
ﬂoor in the second half and 42% for
the game. A number of those easy
baskets were scored by freshman
guard Stephanie Matthews who ﬁn-
ished the game with 18 points on 8
of 13 shooting.

The Generals, on the other
hand, not only struggled with the

press but also with the strong zone
defense utilized by the Royals.

The Generals, hoever, shot only
27% from the ﬂoor, including just 17%
from 3-point range. Nevertheless,
strong efforts for the Generals came
from sophomore guard Bethany
Dannelly who ﬁnished the game with
12 points, 7 rebounds and 2 assists
and junior forward Sarah Michaels
who contributed 10 points, 4 re-
bounds and 4 steals.

On Friday night, the Generals
played another conference opponent,
Roanoke College, on the road. The
Generals played a tight ﬁrst half, trail-
ing only 25-22 at halﬁime.

Once again, however, the Gener-
als fell victim to a deeper team and
allowed the Maroons to reel off a 20-
0 run to begin the second half and
cruise to a 67-49 victory. The Gener-
als committed 25 turnovers for the
game andallowed Roanoke to shoot
50% from the ﬂoor in the second half.

The Generals were led by the tan-
dem ofDannelly and Michaels. Dannelly
contributed 14 points, 4 rebounds and 4
assists while Michaels scored ateamhigh
16 points and added 8 rebounds.

W&L next faces ODAC base-
ment dweller Randolph-Macon
Women’s College at home on
Wednesday, Feb. 5; game time is
scheduled for 7 p.m.

BASKETBALL PROMOTIONS

Attend the women’s basketball game vs. Guilford on
Fri., Feb. 7 at 7:00 pm and enter a free drawing for
two tickets to Fancy Dress or attend the men’s bas-
ketball game vs. Hampden-Sydney on Sat., Feb. 8 at
3:00pm which is to be broadcast o_nWDRL-TV’ in
Roanoke. Enter a free drawing to win two tickets to
Fancy Dress, dinner for two at a Lexington restau-
rant or free books for the spring term compliments of

the athletic department.

COURITSY LYNN SYMANSKY
1”“ ‘ W ' “W ""‘ ‘V’ 8" «W ‘dent Lynn Symansky jumps her horse NO It Tissant during a show. Symansky and her horse will be travelling all spring to train with the national team.

‘W&L Eqestrian Symsky nad naional riding team

BY ERIN JULIUS
SPORTS EDITOR

Washington and Lee sophomore
Lynn Symansky was named as an al-
ternate to the United States Eques-
trian Team’s 2003 Winter Eventing
Training list on Jan. 17.

Symansky will be training with
three of Equestrian’s most successful
trainers: Capt. Mark Phillips, Sandy
Phillips and George Morris. Eighteen
people were chosen to be on the team.

Symansky will be working with
the trainers prior to the spring com-
petition season. By Washington and
Lee’s Spring break, Symansky will be
through with the training and ready ‘
for competitions.

Equestrian competitions are com-
prised of three days of events: dres-
sage, cross-country and show-jumping.

The dressage event is -meant to
show the horse’s training by demon-
strating the its precision, smoothness,
suppleness and obedience.

Cross-country is designed to
demonstrate the horse’s endurance
and excellent physical condition.

The show-jumping event takes place
inajurnpingarenaandteststhestamina
and recovery oﬂ the horse after the ﬁrst
two grueling days of competition.

The US Equestrian team is in-
cludes both men and women, most of
whom are professional riders.

“Everyone else doing this is profes-
sional and it’s men and women,” said
Symansky, “they don’tgoto school. . .I’m
competingagainst40-year oldmen, which
makes it different from other sports.”

Symansky will be splitting her
time between W&L and Southern
Pines, North Carolina , where she is
training through March.

’ “My teachers and the faculty
have been really accommodating, but
it’s been tough,” she said, “I get up at
6 and am at the barn until 8 in the
evening, then I go back to the hotel
to do work until I pass out.”

Though balancing school and
riding is difﬁcult, Symansky doesn’t
plan to take any time away from her
education, “I thought about taking a
year off, but I really wanted to come
here and I was afraid that if I took time
off I wouldn’t have the drive to ﬁnish
my education,” she said.

Symansky said she, “rode at the
same level last fall,” and managed to
keep up with her school work.

Symansky hasn’t decided. what
she will do after school. She may ride
professionally, but, “you can’t rely on
riding if you’re not sponsored and
have a bunch of horses-—if your horse
gets hurt, you’re out.” Symansky is
majoring in business in order to leave
her options'open.

Symansky and her horse, No It
Tissant, will be judged in competi-
tions throughout the Spring and in
selection trials at the end of the spring
season. Around the barn, No It
Tissant is known as Fergus.

Symansky has a chance of eam-
ing a place in the World Equestrian
Games in the fall.

“The World Equestrian Games are
really more important than the Olym-
pics within the sport,” she said.

Next spring, Symansky will be
going through selection trials that
may land her a spot on the 2004 Olym-
pic Equestrian team.

Symansky, who is from Vienna,
Virginia, has been riding since she was
4 and participating in low-level com-
petition since she was 5.

“I started because my parents
had horses. . .basically, I was born into
it,” she said.

“I’ve been competing at the this
level since I was a junior is high
school,” she said.

The three most important competi-
tions that Symansky will be competing

‘in this spring are at Morven Park in

Leesburg, Virginia, Southern Pines in
North Carolina and Pine Top in Georgia.

 

PAGE 8

   

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 3, 2003



Individualrunners
compete at Vl\/II meet

BY MARY CHRISTOPHER
SPORTS WRITER

Not far from the white columns
of Washington and Lee lies “The Pit”
of VMI. “The Pit” is the indoor track
facility of VMI, and is where the Gen-
erals headed this weekend to strut
their stuff on the track.

No team scores were kept during
this meetAonly individual efforts
were recorded.

Thrower Audrey Walker com-
peted early Friday evening in the shot
put. Her throw of 30’05 placed her
high among competitors from schools
such as Elon, Bridgewater, Liberty,
Virginia State, Lynchburg, and, of
course, VMI. Also on Friday, Jessica
Remmert and Samantha Snabes com-
peted in the 3000m. Both girls ran ex-
tremely well and remarked, “we felt
very comfortable running the event”.

On Saturday, the track stars were
ready to roll again with many events
scheduled for them. Captain Meredith
Walker competed in the 200 In dash
with a ﬁnishing time of 30.06 along
with Freshman Amy Bacastow, who
ran a hard 32.71. Amy also ran the
55m in a time of 9’26. In the Long
Jump Meredith struck again with an
impressive l5’05 distance and, that
wasn’t all for Meredith, who then ran
the 400m dash in l’06’98. With a
height of 4’l0, Angel Daniels truly
represented her team with this excel-
lent high jump performance.

Then there was the mile run,
where W & L dominated in number of
competitors. Typically, at college
meets, the 1500 is run, but that wasn’t

the case at VMI and it was no prob-
lem for the runners.

After running a hard 3000m the
day before, Samantha and Jessica
both ran solid miles in 6:35.60 and
6:29.60. Liz Twentyman, Erin Johnson,
and Mary Christopher also ran the
milewithtimesof6:2l.13,6:11.21,and
5:55.97. For the men, Andrew Johnson
shined with his time of 4:48.39. The
last race of the day for the Generals
was the 800m dash which, like all
events, is extremely difficult.

Nonetheless, runners Erin
Johnson, Mary Christopher, and Liz
Twentyman stuck it out with times of
2:45.24, 2:43.64, and 2:43.21. The race
was close, with majority of the times
varying between only a few seconds
or even microseconds but the 3 girls
did well under the pressure.

Coach Tucker was nothing but
enthusiastic during the course of the
meet, eager and anxious to cheer on
all his runners. With a huge smile
upon his face, Tucker remarked, “I am
so pleased with the team. There is so
much improving and competitiveness,
it’s just greatl”.

Taking into consideration the dif-
ficulty of running on the
banked(slanted) not so elite track,
Captain Erin Johnson felt that “we
held our own against the D-1 teams”.
She, like Coach Tucker, realized that
“in just one week there is a lot of im-
provement”. So, although it was a

I long weekend for the men and women,

the strong ﬁnishes made their time well
spent, and leave the Generals antici-
pating their next race at Christopher
Newport this F riday-Saturday.

FROM STAFF REPORTS

breaststroke.

Washington and Lee’s men’s and women’s
swimming team fell to Johns Hopkins Saturday in
a meet in Baltimore, Maryland. Johns Hopkins’s
men’s team defeated W&L ‘I05-77 while the
women’s team (5-7) won 99-78. Michael Lee, ’05,
and Clark Barrineau, ’06, paced the General’s men
with a win in the 200-meter breast stroke event
and the 500-meter free event. Mandi Kimble, ’04,
and Tasia Fisher, ’05, led the women. Kimble won
the 200 backstroke while Fisher won the 200

Later that day, both the men’s and women’s
teams beat Marymount. The men (5-6) defeated
Marymount 105-67 while the women (9-4) took a
125.5-5915 victory. Zach Fake, ’03, Patrick Frank-

furt, ’03, Jonathan James, ’04, and Bariineau, ’06,
all took a victory as the Generals won the

Back events.

freestyle events. Drew Catanese, "04, won the
100 Fly, Eric Ritter, ’04, won the 100 back, Chris
Colby, ’05, won the 200 Individual Medley.

For the women’s team, Blair Huffman, ’03,
won three races to lead the Generals. She won
the 200 Individual Medley, 100 Fly, and 500 Free.
Kelli Austin, ‘O3, and Kristine Holda, ’06, both
won two events. Autsin won the 50-and 100-
freestyle while Holda won the 200 Free and 100

The men will return to the pool on Thursday

when they compete in the Southern States Cham-
pionships at Radford University. The women will
return to action on Friday, Feb. 21, when they
compete for the ODAC Championship.

Women’s swimming wins‘ away

Wrestling loses away

Washington and Lee’s wrestling team fell,
35-13 to Muhlenberg in a Centennial Conference
meet on Saturday in Allentown, Pennsylvania.
The loss dropped the Generals’ record to 2-9 (0-
5 in the Conference). Alex Poor, ’03, BrianAvello,
’05 and Michael Bennett, ’04, led the team, as
the trio was responsible for all 13 of the team’s
points. Poor, at 165, won 14-1 against Chris
Gibson while Avello at 174 beat Cardinal Greg
Jacobs, 13-6. Bennett, wrestling at 197, won by
forfeit.

The Generas’s next competition is Sat-
urday, when they travel to Johns Hopkins
for a quadrangular. Matches will begin at
12 p.m.

.Wll

lI .

New! .

Twonewwmjlutingserviees in thelibrazyt  

I     ‘Questions about Software?
  Questions about tlIeLabs?
    ‘Questions about Wireless?

-‘slopllylllenell HelIIDeslIstatIonLeyburnLibIary 

The Ileskisloeatedfin the reference circle andisopen I        R
from 8:00 to 11:00 p.111. Sunday through Thursday   

Needea quiltplattlotltlS0llIe_ctlIIIpIltlIIg?i-V"     

Step by the new computing lab in Leybum Library  
The lab is loeated_on the third level IIfLeylIIIrII 301 and is open
* from 8:00 am. l0—l2!llll_tt.lll. everyday. . _

ave

.l%a§:aEI- 

  
, t. i:t7te‘%3 €33. 
    upc

23.0 at; 

  
 

 
   

..}i'eéae



tigliiiafijll. Ia

  

    
   
 
  
     

    
 
    

 

Commission advises 

changes to Ti le IX

BY JoN BREECE
CAVALIER DAILY (U. VIRGINIA)

( U - W I R E )
CHARLOTTESVILLE, Va. - The
future of Title IX, a landmark
piece of legislation that attempts
to achieve gender equality in col-
legiate sports, will be evaluated

1 this week in Washington, D.C.

More than 30 years after the
initial passage of Title IX became
a law, the Commission on Oppor-
tunity in Athletics is finalizing its
recommendations to the Bush ad-
ministration on how to reform the
1972 law.

Title IX prohibits schools re-
ceiving federal aid from sexual
discrimination in their academic
and athletic programs.

,The proposals being consid-
ered would weaken Title IX’s com-
pliance requirement. Under one
recommendation, athletic direc-
tors would be allowed to decrease
current funding for female athletic
scholarships although women, on
average, constitute a majority on
campuses nationwide

Praised by some as increas-
ing athletic opportunities for
women and condemned by others
as leading smaller men’s programs
to the chopping block, Title IX is
a lightning rod in both high
school and collegiate athletics.

The University of Virginia,
however, has not experienced
problems typical at other schools.
“The University has been on the
forefront of Title IX and provid-
ing opportunities for women’s
sports while not dropping men’s
sports which other schools have
had to do,” said Mark Fletcher, a
University associate athletic di-
rector.

The law stipulates that
schools must allot their scholar-
ships according to the ratio of
enrolled students, meet the
“needs and interests” of its stu-
dent body or show a history of
expanding athletic opportunities
for the “underrepresented sex.”

According to the
University’s 2002 Equity in Ath-
letics Disclosure Act Information
filing, women’s programs con-

sume 34.8 percent of operating
costs and women athletes only
make up 43.8 percent of the stu-
dent-athlete population. Football
and men’s basketball take up 67.8
percent ofthe men’s and 44.3 per-
cent of the total operating costs.

University Athletic director
Craig Littlepage said these expen-

ditures “match our participation .

rates and student-athlete popula-
tion.” Littlepage also noted that
the University has expanded
scholarships, offices, facilities
and coaching positions for
women’s sports.

The University added
women’s rowing in 1995 and
women’s golf in 2001. “Women

1*

1

V

are also hurt because, rather than I

adding women’s programs, ath-
letic directors are only cutting
men’s programs to comply with
the standard,” University men’s
wrestling Coach Lenny Bernstein
said. He added that the law is, in
effect, a quota whose basis can-
not be supported.

“The idea that there is the ‘

same degree of interest is ﬂawed,”
he said. “Right now, funding is
tied to a quota of how many men

and women are at the University. ,,

Let’s base it off of interest and

not some arbitrary quota.”
Despite the apparent success

of Title IX at the University, other

Virginia schools, particularly the 7‘

predominantly female James
Madison University, has been
more heavily affected by the leg-
islation. .

In April 2000, the father ofa
JMU softball player complained
to the Office of Civil Rights that
his daughter’s club softball team,

1

despite promises by the school,¥

had not been elevated to a fully-
funded university athletic pro-
gram.

The school subsequently up-
graded the program at the expense
of other men’s and women’s
sports. Jane Mann, the coach of
the University’s new women’s
golfteam, who was unable to par-
ticipate in either high school or
college athletics, said Title IX has
done a “great deal for sports in
general” and is vital in prevent-
ing discrimination in sports.

 

Amanda Geiger never saw the ;l:reIeIl<.dIi~AeI*;

2

 

     

0..c..a....mI-‘M

 
 

Yim.rl?‘m.-emf Scziaziafnr (.?ui!e;ge F‘murmé3-Eng.
338-923 -323 8 - WwW.CaI”t1ptiSI%t1f3(IE&iSersttﬁlm

  

SENIORS:

CHECK ouT A GREAT SUMMER JOB
IN THE MEDICINE Bow MOUNTAINS

OF SOUTHERN WYOMING.

WWW.COOLWORKS.COM/ABARA HAS FULL
INFORMATION ABOUT THE A BAR A GUEST ,
RANCH. THE MANAGER WILL BE ON CAMPUS

INTERVIEWING ON FEBRUARY 5. EMAIL Boa
HowE AT ABARARANCH@AOL.COM To SET UP AN 4,
INTERVIEW OR ASK QUESTIONS. 1

   
 

)1
mm. name Lot ram m-in bmnk. 
N
  ,,
ﬁt just 3 hours!
'CC|llF.'§_€‘ ‘l‘l.tl"1IZliz'1l’5-5=.?l‘=E§ §'l".=:«".‘l|ZlE‘ Sample, Sake add Fri:-9..
 r’-.m.EsaIg- Imtimts  No  no names. Just 
Fumimistng  we ftlhsg qidakly, Cat with the pmgrmm Ila: milk: ,4

 

 

  
  

2' 
3,
pr

 

...~.r4”

 --7-. -52:. .,.r-4
reef

' earns
‘Sl1‘1l{€ one

BY KATIE HOWELL
Y EDITOR 1N CHIEF

Kappa Delta received the first sorority strike last week
for alcohol violations on “Tear Night” activities Jan. 1 1.

Washington and Lee’s Panhellenic Council investigated al-

Vlegations of the violation after faculty, staif, deans and male stu-
dents approached members of the Council with concerns.

Panhellenic found Kappa Delta guilty of alcohol of-
fences after conducting a thorough investigation with

(the help of University Security Director Mike Young.

“The violations are in regards to alcohol being pro-
vided to the freshmen on Tear Night and the morning of
Tear Night,” said Kappa Delta President Amanda Basham.

According to the Student Judiciary Council Web site

‘Ia strike can be awarded to a Greek organization in situa-
tions of coercive or pressured drinking related to group
activities, violations of Interfratemity Council/Panhellenic
rules governing events where alcohol is served, violations
of dry rush policies, excess damage to house property or
coordinating the use of, or using, fratemity/sorority funds,
group funds or slush funds, to purchase alcohol.

“(Kappa Delta) will have two weeks social probation
aﬁer February break, letters sent home to all the parents

tof members under 21 and to their housing corporation,
community service and an alcohol workshop,” said
Reanna Stahl, Panhellenic vice president.

Under the Student Judiciary Committee’s guidelines

‘for the three-strike substance-abuse policy, organizations
are usually ﬁned as a ﬁrst strike violation. Kappa Delta
will not receive the ﬁne, however.

“We decided not to ﬁne them because ﬁnes are not
considered constructive punishment by the National

[Panhellenic Council,” Stahl said.

Basham said the Kappa Delta National organization
is conducting a separate investigation into the charges of
alcohol violation.

Kappa Delta is the ﬁrst sorority to receive a Univer-

7sity sanction under the three-strike system initiated at the
beginning of the 2001-2002 school year. Five fraternities,
however, have gained strikes.

The Panhellenic Council encourages students to care

pfor their peers if they are intoxicated.

“...taking an intoxicated student to the Student Health
Center or Emergency Room will NEVER constitute a strike.
They are both safe havens from judicial sanctions,” the
Panhellenic statement of the strike said.

'4 Basham said all members of the sorority~both actives
and new members—are handling the sanctions responsibly.

“(The new members) have all been really support-
ive,” Basham said. “We’ve explained that we don’t blame

‘them in any way and we’re all trying to work through this
together to make sure it doesn’t happen again.”

fie’ t :1 .
 sttrderrr i."tri£L‘t1itf)r>_;' .

.
.
  1

  

g.1’

D-my APPOA(]ilNG. Lexington, VMI and Washington and Lee held a
town meeting in Lee Chapel Sunday to discuss moral issues involved
with going to war. James F. Childress spoke for the first hour aboutjust
War Theory and the ethical issues involved in going to war with Iraq.

. rrrzri irrrr .

 

 

..  aria:

J BRoOI<s/ 7beRmg4umPbi

The second hour of the event was an opportunity for members of the
pandtoentertamquesdonsﬁrxnddzerisaridstuderitsofﬂieccxmnuﬁty.
The panel induded politics professor Robert Strong, law professorMark
Drurnbl and Brigadier General Charles BI‘OW€f of VMI.

‘F!

- 
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 2003

Orgs. want
women in
leadership

BY KYLE Wrrss
SENIOR STAFF WRITER

Last Wednesday, men and
women from the Washington and Lee
community met at the Women’s Fo-
rum meeting, primarily to discuss why
W&L does not have more women in
administrative positions.

About 20 people attended this
meeting , which was held in the Fairfax
Lounge. Roughly half of the partici-
pants were students. The faculty
present included Dean of Students
David Howison, Dean of Freshmen
Dawn Watkins, and Associate Dean
of Students Anne Schroer-Lamont,
among others. The meeting started off
with a discussion of the issue that the
University has only one woman in the
highest level of administration, and the
concern about the message this is send-
ing out about Washington and Lee.
There was also concern that some of
the posters put up by KEWL around
campus—commenting on the need for
more women in upper-level adminis-
trative positions~have been taken
down or defaced, to which one of the
males responded with the worry that
KEWL is “not asking for the best ad-
ministrator possible, but asking for the
best [administrator who] is a woman,”
and that they are merely looking for
“the most qualiﬁed person who appeals
to certain sectors of the community.”

Watkins, who prefaced by say-
ing that Washington and Lee is an
“extremely friendlytplace for women
to work,” agreed that we need more
women in administrative positions,
but said that there is a “larger social
context we need to be aware of.” She
noted that “people stay in positions
here for a long time,” and that while
there has been an effort to recruit
strong women candidates, that many
women do not work full—time as they
develop families, and Lexington is far

SEE WOMEN, PAGE 2

.,Court ruling may force universities to turn in ﬁle sharers

BY MEGAN MORGAN
SENIOR STAFF WRITER

A recent legal victory for the re-
cording industry gives them ex-
panded powers in their battle against
the illegal downloading of songs and
other copyrighted material off the

Vlnternet. In the United States District
Court of Columbia, Judge John D.
Bates ruled that the Verizon Commu-
nications must under the Digital Com-

unications Act provide to the Re-
cording Industry Association of

America the name of a customer who
had used KaZaa to download 600
songs. Currently, a copyright owner
must get a subpoena signed by a
judge in order to force a service pro-
vider to disclose information about
one of its subscribers. However, this
new ruling means that a copyright
owner will be able to obtain this infor-
mation without having to appear in
front of a judge.

Universities all over the country
have been watching this case care-
fully. Washington and Lee, like most

universities, does not actively search
for students who illegally download
songs and movies. Indeed, if a stu-
dent simply downloads a copyrighted
song or movie onto his computer, he
will probably go unnoticed. However,
whenever a student has KaZaa open
on his computer, the program auto-
matically advertises all materials
downloaded on it to the KaZaa com-
munity- The Recording Industry As-
sociation of America and the Motion
Picture Association of America can
detect these advertisements, and if the

Alum mourns son, astronaut

BY CALEY ANDERSON
ASSISTANT NEWS EDITOR

The Hon. Paul D. Brown, a retired Virginia judge and
Washington and Lee alumnus who spent 35 years on the
bench, and his wife, Dorothy, were affected by the recent
Columbia tragedy on a much deeper level than most.

Their son, Captain David Brown, was serving as Mis-

Vision Specialist #1 for STS-107, designated Space Shuttle
Columbia at the time of its destruction.

The death of Cpt. Brown was made all the more sad-
dening by the fact that it was his first space ﬂight. Though
he had initially been selected for participation in the
‘Manned Space Flight program in 1996, he had waited for
seven years to reach his goal. He, along with his six
crewmates, perished when Columbia exploded while re-
entering the Earth’s atmosphere. NASA ofﬁcials are list-

ing “heat shield failure” as the current most-likely cause
of the accident, but will not make any pronouncements of
certainty.

The late Cpt. Brown’s father, the Honorable Paul D.
Brown, graduated from Washington and Lee as an under-
graduate in 1941. He subsequently received his law de-
gree from the W&L Law School in 1943. He worked with
several law practices, received his first bench appoint-
ment, and experienced the birth of his son David through
the 1950s. In 1966, he was appointed to the Circuit Court
of Arlington County, over which he presided at the time of
his retirement in 1985.

The late Cpt. David Brown received a biology degree
as an undergraduate at William and Mary in 1978, and
received a medical doctorate from Eastern Virginia Medi-
cal School in 1982. He was 46 at the time of the Columbia
accident.

‘Watkins provides female leadership to W&L

BY IMRAN NAEEMULIAH
CONTRIBUTING EDITOR

Dawn Watkins may only be in her
second year at Washington and Lee,
,,but she has already made herself a
familiar sight on campus as the Dean
of Freshmen. Watkins came to W&L

 

7

from Guilford College, where she spent
seven years as Associate Dean of Stu-
dents, among other positions. She
and her husband, John, who works in
University Computing, were wanting
to move, and Watkins was applying
for jobs at several universities, includ-
ing Wake Forest and Duke. She also

was keeping an eye open for W&L,
because she had heard of its presti-
gious reputation when she attended
high school in the area and Virginia
Tech for both her bachelor’s and
master’s degrees.

SEE WATKINS, PAGE 2

advertiser is a W&L student, they
send a letter to John Stuckey, the Di-
rector of University Computing ex-
plaining their complaint along with the
student’s numerical Internet address.
The University is then usually able to
determine the name of the student re-
ferred to and sends a letter to that stu-
dent asking them to remove all ille-
gally downloaded material from their
computer. A letter is then sent back to
either the Recording Industry Asso-
ciation of America or the Motion Pic-
ture Association of America stating

that the problem has been taken care
of without disclosing the name of the
student responsible.

If this new ruling holds up on
appeal, the Recording Industry As-
sociation of America and the Motion
Picture Association of America may
have the power to force universities
to provide them with the names of stu-
dents who are illegally downloading
copyrighted material and hold them
personally responsible. Both John
Stuckey and John White, the manager
of the University Computing Help

Desk, doubt that the RIAA and the
MPAA will subpoena universities, at
least for a few years. However, in or-
der to look at this as well as other
Internet related problems such as elec-
tronic plagiarism, Washington and
Lee University has formed a commit-
tee consisting of John Stuckey, one
Executive Committee member, a copy-
right specialist from the law school
and one faculty member. They will be
reporting their suggestions on how
to deal with these types of problem to
the Provost within the next two weeks.

 

   

JER BROOl{S/ 7beRing4umPbi

SIAUGHTERHOUSE. Kurt Vonnegut relaxed at the Southern Inn between dinner and his speech in Lee Chapel last

Tuesday night. Over 6()0 people attended his speech, many of whom had to stand in the back rows of the balcony. I

 



 

PAGE 2

    

EC will continue to
debate investigative
committee

BY CALEY ANDERSON
.Ass1sr.m' xr.urs EDITOR

EC Meeting Report- February 3'“, 2003

The EC met in Classroom B of the Law School.

The EC discussed the ongoing process of
Greek Honor Orientation. The purpose is to
prevent Greek organizations, their leaders, mem-
bers, and pledges, from committing or forcing
someone else to commit any sort of honor vio-
lation, especially during the pledgeship pro-
cess.

The EC noted that the Board of Trustees
would be meeting in the EC Ofﬁces during the
week.

The EC noted that the “Town Meeting” to
discuss the possibility of a United States war
with Iraq would be held this Sunday in Lee
Chapel. President Titus is scheduled to open
the meeting.

The EC discussed the current policy regard-
ing the University Board of Appeals. Some mem-
bers expressed concern that recent overhauls to
policy include the fact that a designated univer-
sity ofﬁcial can now appeal any verdict made by
the Student—Faculty Hearing Board. The EC ex-
pressed concern for this policy extending to the
Student Judicial Council, and will examine the is-
sue further.

The EC heard reports from representatives of
Traveller regarding the inappropriate treatment
of a law student who requested transportation. A
Traveller dispatcher allegedly used profanity and
refused a ride to a law student. The Traveller
representatives stated that changes were being
made to prevent a similar occurrence, and that
disciplinary action against the dispatcher in ques-
tion was pending and would most likely consist
of dismissal if the dispatcher was found to be
responsible.

The EC discussed at great length proposals for
the creation of an investigative committee to study
the current process of W&L student government
and to recommend changes to the EC, and the pos-
sible creation of a committee that would hear stu-
dent opinions on topical issues, e.g., cigarettes in
the co-op, D—Hall issues, and similar concerns. The
EC decided not to take any immediate action on the
latter issues. However, a motion was made and sec-
onded to entirely reject the idea of an investigative

committee. The motion was defeated by a vote of 7-,,

5, and the EC will hear further debate on, the investi-
gative committee issue at the next meeting.

t Lexington

 

Forecast
Monday- Moderate Snow, 41/19

Tuesday- Mostly Sunny, 37/22
Wednesday— Partly Cloudy, 3 8/21
Thursday— Partly Cloudy & Wind, 39/27
Friday- Mostly Cloudy, 50/36

Saturday— Moderate Rain & Snow, 45/24

Sunday- Mostly Cloudy, 42/23

WATKINS, FROM PAGE 1

When she saw the opening for
Dean of Freshmen on the W&L Web

site, she said she jumped at therop-

portunity to apply.

When she was offered the job, it
was a hard decision for her and John
to make, because he had not yet
found a job in Lexington and was
faced with the prospect of a potential
commute into Roanoke everyday. F or-
tunately, says Watkins, John was of-
fered a job with University Comput-
ing which was a perfect match for him,
and which he continues to enjoy to
this day. So she, John, and Jill, their
young daughter, packed up their
things and moved to Virginia. Watkins
said that one of the things which at-
tracted her most about the area was
her family ties to it; she says she feels
at home here living among the Blue
Ridge Mountains and is happy to be
back in Virginia.

Her daily routine includes many
things, but Watkins’ ﬁrst and foremost
responsibility is towards the freshman
class. One of the things she likes the
most about her job, she says, is her
ability to set her own agenda. Although

there are some things she must obvi- .

ously do, like make sure all freshmen
are performing at their potential, she
enjoys the ﬂexibility of being able to
decide what she does. One of the key
differences between Watkins and her
predecessors, the immediate ofwhom
was Mark Dalhouse, is that her job is
exclusively administrative, whereas the
previous deans of freshmen also had
to teach classes. She says this leaves
her with more time to concentrate ex-
clusively on making sure the freshman
experience is as positive and reward-
ing as possible.

One of the biggest transitions
from home life to living at college is
the sudden absence of parents. For
many students, this is not such a prob-
lem, but a lot of parents suddenly feel
like they are losing control over their
child’s life, so they call Watkins to see
how their child is doing. Watkins says
she enjoys getting the phone calls
from concerned parents, as well as
meeting them during Orientation and
Parents’ Weekend, among other times

that parents come to visit. Watkins-~

also works closely with. professors to
make sure that students are perform-
ing well academically, especially given

ji-:nBR<x>i<s/ 7beRz'ng4umPbc'

FRosH. Watkins talks with head dorm counselor Raphael Penteado.

the pressures of the ﬁrst semester of
freshman year.

Indeed, that is one of the chal-
lenges of her job, making sure that all
students perform to the best of their
abilities. However, she notes that she
ﬁnds all of the challenges she faces
positive ones and learns from them
on a daily basis. She says that it is
especially hard when a student is
faced with some tough decisions to
make, and she needs to help guide
them through the process, especially
when it involves something as dras-
tic as taking a year off, for example.
Other especially challenging aspects
of her job are helping students to cope
with tragedy, for example, the death
of a family member or a close friend.
She says, “I really feel for those folks.
I’ve been in tears myself at times.”

Watkins notes, however, that
“there’s so much variety in the job
that there are always different issues
to work on,” so she always has new
challenges to face. One of the ways
she does this is in working with the
Freshman Leadership Council and
other student government bodies. For
example, one project Watkins is cur-
rently working on involves the Execu-
tive Committee, and it is to create a
freshman seminar. She says, -“So many
other colleges, have aclass during ﬁr_s_t
semester that all freshmen can experi-
ence, and that is something that we
lack.” As far as what the seminar

would concentrate on, Watkins re-
plies, “At a school like Washington
and Lee, what better topic to focus
on than honor?” Indeed, current EC
President Gerald Titus agrees, and has
been working with Watkins to develop
such a class, which would be offered
in a variety of departments, such as
history, philosophy and politics and
would approach the subject from a
number of perspectives. This is a
great way to help foster the sense of
trust and community that is the hall-
mark of the W&L experience.

When she is not working,
Watkins enjoys spending time with
her family. Indeed, she eats lunch at
home whenever she can, since she
lives so close to campus, at 19 Uni-
versity Place. She loves the house and
its great location, looking up towards
the Colonnade, and notes that it is
very pretty inside, as well. An avid
reader, Watkins is an admirer of South-
ern literature, and enjoys reading sev-
eral books concurrently. She is also
into personal ﬁtness, enjoys reading
books about athletics, as well as tak-
ing hikes in the area with her family,
and going for a jog as often as she
can.

This is the third article in a
series which feature in-depth
interviewswith administrators
at Washington and Lee Univer-

sily.

SUMMARY or EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE HONOR
ACTIVITY FOR THE 2002-2003 ACADEMIC YEAR
Investigations: 5

Withdrawals in face of a Closed Hearing: 1
Guilty Verdicts in Closed Hearings: 3

Not Guilty Verdicts in Closed Hearings: 3
Student Body Hearings: 0

 

Doris Fredricksen ’

463-I 67 I or dfred@cfw.com

Mary Kay has the 
forValentine's Day. Let
me help you ﬁnd that
perfect something. So
you can spend more
time with that someone
special. For your one—and-
only gift shopping source,
ca_llmLt9QL __

Independent Saies Director

Canes‘ Opportunitia Av?‘able

WOMEN, FROM PAGE 1

away from any cities where the other spouse in a dual-
career couple could get a job.

Rebecca Skaggs, one of the co-leaders of the
Women’s Forum, moved the discussion toward how
W&L’s policies would be different ifthere were more
women leaders. A female student in attendance said
that policies toward sexual assault would be differ-
ent and asked “shouldn’t [sexual assault and rape]
be a violation of the Honor Code?” The concern

over this issue “speaks to the need of women stu-
dents to get into leaderships positions,” Watkins
said.

Professor Lesley Wheeler, the faculty advisor
for the Women’s Forum, said that it is simply “an

 

WANTED: Summer Scholars Counselors
June 25 - July 26, 2003

Are you looking for a great chance to be a mentor and to
experience working with high school students while staying
at W&L for the month of July? The Washington and Lee
Summer Scholars Program is an exciting four week aca-
demic program for approximately 150 rising high school
seniors. We are looking for responsible students to help
guide participants and to plan extracurricular activities such
as talent shows, lip synchs, weekend hikes, trips to Goshen

and more.

For information about the position please contact Dr. Mimi
Milner Elrod at 458-8727. You may pick up an application
from Jennifer Lotts (458-8722) in the Summer Scholars

Office located in the Hill House.

---— The deadline for turning in applications is February 28,

2003.

issue oftrust,” and that women are “distrustful that
women’s faces aren’t there (in leadership posi-
tions).”

Skaggs also brought up for discussion the is-
sue that women “back off” from voicing opinions,
and do not take enough stands on topics that are
important to them. Thus, according to Skaggs, W&L
hasn’t “fully become co—ed.” The group then also
examined the differences teaching men versus teach-
ing women, with input from both male and female
professors.

The group was assured that W&L is actively look-
ing for women to ﬁll leadership and administrative posi-
tions, but that the applicant pool is small and the most
qualiﬁed candidates will receive positions, regardless of
gender.

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 10. 2003

 

Injured Student’s Medications Stolen

Washington and Lee’s Security Department is inves-
tigating an unusual and inhumane case of theft that was
committed last Tuesday evening.

A male senior Washington and Lee student who suf- .

fered critical and “life-altering” injuries during the summer
of 2002 discovered last week that the supply of medica-
tions on which he relies to continue his recovery had
been stolen.

In a time when the student continues to suffer ‘

through the process of physical recovery from his inju-
ries, the theft of his important medicines, including a
store of prescription narcotic painkillers, only makes it
worse.

Possessing the particular painkiller involved without
a prescription is illegal in any case, but stealing it from one
who needs it is “despicable,” according to Mike Young,
Director of W&L Security.

The thief is considered likely to be someone fa-
miliar with the victimized student and his altered situ-
ation.

The Security department has stated that they wish
to resolve this case in a “fair and quick” manner. If the
guilty party is found to be a member of the Washington
and Lee community, then Honor System consequences
are implied.

Anyone with relevant information is asked to contact
the Security department at 458-8427, or to e-mail Young at
mlyoung@wlu.edu.

Concert Guild Present King’s Singers

Washington and Lee University Concert Guild will
present an evening with the King’s Singers on Tues-
day, Feb. 25 at 8 p.m. in the Lenfest Center’s Keller
Theater.

This male, British vocal sextet is known for its unique
and entertaining style of performance. They appeared at
the February 2002 Olympic Arts Festival at the Winter
Olympic Games in Salt Lake City.

“The King’s Singers present a very eclectic program,”
said Tim Gaylard, W&L music professor. “From Bach to
the Beatles, their music will appeal to people of all musical
tastes. They will provide a great ending to the series.”

Since the group’s inception at King’s College, Cam-
bridge, in 1968, the King’s Singers have developed a di-
verse repertoire, including a library of international music
from the 1500s to the 1900s, as well as works commis-
sioned from contemporary composers.

For ticket information, call the Lenfest Center box of-
fice at 540-458-8000.

W&L Ranked 18 of 24 in Diversity

Based on data researchers compiled over the past
10 years, The Journal of Blacks in Higher Education
produced a comprehensive ranking ofthe nation’s 24
top academically rated liberal arts colleges as to their
comparative success in integrating African Americans
into their faculties and student bodies.

Amherst College in western Massachusetts ﬁnished
at the top of our ranking followed by Williams, Colgate,
Wellesley, and Haverford. The lowest-rated selective lib-
eral arts institution was Grinnell College in Iowa. Wash-
ington and Lee was 18th.

Using government sources and original research, JBHE
ranked the 24 liberal arts colleges in 13 different categories
including such measures as black enrollments, black stu-
dent yield, and the black percentage of the total faculty.

Unlike other rankings such as those used by U.S.
News & World Report which contain subjective assess-
ments of an institution’s quality, JBHE’s rankings are based
solely on quantitative data. —

New!

Two new computing services in the Library:

Questions about Software?  
Questions about the Labs?
Questions about Wireless?

Stop by the new Help Desk station in Leyhurn Library

The desk is located in the reference circle and is open
from 8:00 to 11:00 p.m. Sunday through Thursday

Ncodaquict place to do some computing?

Stop by the new computing lab in Leyhum Library
The lab is located on the third level of Lcyhurn 301 and is open

lrom 8:00 am. to Midnight am. every day.
I llhislabmaybcunovailableifschodillodlotnainingl

0Pll\lONSliDll‘0R
1: Eiiiiiii l\'lR\VI

  

 

ZEDU

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 2003

 
  

 

 
 

Letters to the Editor

 P ieliicifél

  

‘  P OWCII lll2lkCS CEISC fOI' W211’ CEIFTIPUS QTOWS mere
AFF EDITORIAL I - - -
Last Wednesday, Secretary of A A I M A ' S h  I I Ne S S   l
. Traveller needs serious reworking S‘a“?~C°‘i“¥’°We1‘aPP‘**%“*d"€f9‘” 1
It special session of the Umted Nations
W a stir n gt on and Lee, S Sober ride System, Security Council to share with the dis- I liketto think of myself as a moderate. I vote for the
Traveiieri is in dire need of a t-iX_un_ The Seherne’ behevmg diplomats some of the dainn— best candidate, not a straight -party. ticket. Both Repub-
in its Current form’ has many Sherteemingsi but ing information the United States has licans and Democrats can be intelligent, insightful, and
. . collected. His tone was measured and practice good politics. I don t think that “liberal” is a

V with a few more dollars and a little elbow . . . . . . ,, . ,, .

, his presentation simple and effective. dirty word, nor do I think conservative IS. The only
grease’ the Pmeram Could be made ﬁght‘ Due He iirefutably demonstrated that Iraq ' politically dirty word to me is “extremist.”
to umehable dlspatehers and peerly e°mpen' continues to lie to the UN and hide its Sadly, I am a part of the minority here at W&L. One
sated d1”iVer5» many miles Of eeumry reads Still banned weapons from inspectors. As needs only to read ___________ ﬂee 7777777 __

.r separate us. from success. i r i Sen. Joe-Biden. (DI-Dela.) pointed out, the iiationel opin- MoDEim~E1s MUsiNGs

The Phi had the privilege of providing driv- with an impartial jury, he “could get a ion pieces in Elthel“ i
ers for the program because we receive fund- C011ViC1i011-” the Phi 01 the T71‘  
ihg from the EC, but we were hot made aware To review, Secretary Powell used dent to see that
of the date of our Sentence untii the iast noS_ photographs, video and audio tape pipe-siiiiitefcliiparrtiisanship has taken over any remnant of
Y sibi e minute Three p i Obi e ms ar e Outstanding to illustrate that Iraq continues to oug i an civil debate. On the left side, you have
. . evade and obfuscate, has no inten- ad hommem attacks on the President used as a _]uSt1f1-
and’iE,e1O“,]’ w:Ou,t1me_ S01uUOnS' 1 bi tion of revealing barmed weapons to cation for criticism of the entire Republican party. There
“St 15 t emevltabie peep _e pro cm‘ the inspectors and is pursuing dan— are vague references to “warmongering” and “oil
V People ere umehable Whlle there 15 no way to gerous biological, chemical and greed” without any real proof. Insinuating corruption
' eV01dth15 Ommpresem dilemma» it can be mid‘ nuclear weapons with which to harm in the White House through mere speculation has be-
gated. The University could, for example, cre— its neighbors, the United States and come popular these days. Iamdisappointed with Demo-
ate a position or appoint an existing adrninistra- the world. Revealing this highly sen- crats who are willing to be so completely disrespectful
tor to ensure the smooth operation Of the gys— sitive intelligence was certainly very and critical without serious thought.

4 terrr Currently’ there is no oeritrai authority rig_ damaging to our future efforts to in— r Not to say that conservatives on this campus are
tire to monitor Traveiien student leadership goes Zestigate .President(—ifor-life Hussein  as agiiiiiilty, if nhot itlggfii so. ihad to b6”i1ii1i:1S€:,‘(i lat an

i f i i ecause it expose our espionage e on a emp asiz ow statesman — e, c ear,
on y S0 at . . methods and, potentially, human and “determined” President Bush looked giving the
Second’ the use of Student Vehlcles 1,5 wholly agents in Iraq. ' State of the Union. I respect George W. Bush for being

1' ““a°°eP_tab1e' To “Volunteer” Fhe Vehlcle of a For example, Powell played two the President of the United States, but we all know that
Student 13 Wrong Studertltr Vehleles areineta as audio tapes of telephone conversa— he’s not the brightest President we’ve ever had. The
Tf3Ve11ef C0mmﬂI1dS, add1tl0f131UmVef51tY C315; tions between members of the Iraqi very fact that we have to marvel over how “clear” he

i to be used as the school deems appropriate. military, which is supposed to be as— sounded is proof of that.

11 I Does W&L pay for the gas of “volunteer” driv- sisting the inspectors in their investi— There are more vicious attacks, too, such as the
erg? Does W&L pay for the mileage of “V01- gations. Instead, the first tape re- implication in one editorial that Democrats effectively
uriteer” drivers? No’ arid ho_ A fleet of auto_ corded an Iraqi colonel acknowledg- prostitute themselves into power ‘by bribing poor
rnohiiee designated Sneoifioaiiy for the use of ing that inspectors were about to ar- people with federal welfare. I’ll admit the welfare sys-

e Tr av eh e I, would S eiv e the p r Obi e mi rive and reassuring hlS'Sl.r1p6l’1‘OI‘ that tem needs some reform, but is this the attitude that

1 Ti . . he had evacuated a prohibited modi— Republicans on this campus take, that all liberals and
h U . dlyi Traveller musiigagithe respect of fied vehicle.” A second tape is of a Democrats are so blatantly and obviously wrong that

t e mverslty Commemty S _ Vers’ we were Republican Guard officer ordering a they should he laughed at and scorned as inferior think-
.n0tVa1}1ed but Were’ msteadt Vlewedras merely subordinate in the ﬁeld to “clean out” SW-'19 J“ ers? It’s this sort of attitude that contributes to the

it Cab dT1Ver5 at the beck and Cali Of mebrlated the areas with “forbidden ammo” and Jusr THE Fitorsi M A» AM_ Last Wednesday’ secretary of State Coiih poweiii before a laughably low levels of voter participation in the mod-
students. Many of us at the Phi consume our to “destroy this message” when the special session of the UN security Council’ made the ease for War on Iraq_ em era. I’m ﬁne with disagreeing with someone’s policy,

fair share of the sweet nectar, but it is important work has been completed. but when you get to implying things like the “fact” that

to Show gratitude for those providing this i_1’npQ1‘_ More damning evidence came in rich uranium. Contrary to what he back up its words with might when it one party or the other only exists to “spend the people’s

e turit service. Users of the system must avoid the form of pictures showing cargo claims, and despite the best efforts of has been baldly lied to for twelve money,” thaes meme the border or eetuaiiy hating

1 beeorning abusers of the System: Do not bring surrounding cherrncal weapons IAEA inspectors, Iraq’s nuclear re- years. i . people personally because of their political party:
Open (Or eie S e d) Contain e is of aieehei inte aTrev_ facihties days or even hours before in— search continues at full speed. Powell s speech may not have There are plenty of valid points against President

. spectors were to arrive. When the UN Finally, to silence critics who been about changing imnds. Those Bush s new tax cut, and there are plenty for it. Rather
eller vehicle. Do not attempt to cram ten people . . . . . . . , . . .
_ did show up, these facilities were magi— claim that any attack on Iraq would opposed to the war, due to naivete, than condemn the other side as being totally mistaken

, Into a Volkswagen Beetle‘ Be Sure to Say thenk cally free of any banned weapons. be a dangerous distraction from the fear or economic interest, will refuse and idiotic, 1et’s discuss the pros and cons. Obviously,
You The drwers and dlepatehers are Workmg Based on the testimony of Iraqi war on terror and al-Qaeda, Powell to be persuaded. His speech laid out for instance, FICA policy is ﬂawed. But is Bush’s cur-
her d t0 make Sure that your geed “me begms defectors, Powell also displayed illus- detailed the links between Saddam all the reasons why the United States rent proposal correct? Democrats do have a valid point
aI1dyC11dS as a good time. H611) th6II1t0 help you. trations of mobile “germ factories.” and the terrorist organization. The will meet history’s calling, though. that the wealthiest 5% get 95% of the tax cut breaks. Is

In short, the solution is not, as some have The deadly senii—trailers and boxcars dictator has harbored terrorists, pro- Thankfully, and contrary to the com— this the best way to accomplish economic reform? It

" argued, a dry campus. The solution is not the C811 be 001151211111)!    Vided training camps for plaints of. many ill-informed d0p011dS 011 3/0111 60011011110 1301111 0f Vi0W- B111, 0116
destruetiori of Traveller’ either The solution is and easily moved RIGHT OF THE ABLE them in northern Iraq peaceniksi, we are not alone: Austra- should speak of it civilly. ' ‘

i to rework and reinvest in the enrrent System. arouiicli tiI'i16 coiiii1i— BRETTT Kim/iN ‘O4 aind coioiirdiinatecilefforts ha and Brlitain havie bleen allitites sinlce thi Hasiritiaﬂigeniiileebate left this campus, O1‘CVeI1'WOI'S€,
_ try a t e w i e - 1 __ t roug ‘s inte igence ay one. ast wee , enmar , ta y, snation. ssues e taxation or government programs,
‘r producing anthrax services. Until Saddam the Czech Republic, Spain, Portugal, abortion, and the death penalty have all been beaten to
' and botulinum toxin. Saddam has is taken out, terrorists worldwide will Poland and Hungary all pledged sup— death; the people who argue over these issues, especially
stockpiled thousands of gallons and, have a powerful and dangerous ally. port for a war to disarm Iraq. Follow— the latter two, have been reduced to effectively screaming

as Powell showed with a photograph So, what to do now that the case ing the speech, Albania, Bulgaria, at the other side about how wrong they are.
.  Of   of a Mirage fighter jet, has experi— has been made so clearly and irrefut- Croatia, Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania, This is not the America that Jefferson had in mind

1!‘ merited spraying these deaths from ably? France and China have asked Macedonia, Romania, Slovakia and when he drafted the Declaration of Independence. We

the air. that the inspections regime be Slovenia agreed that the evidence is are no longer an “educated citizenry,” we are a “party
Saddam’s nuclear weapons pro- strengthened and lengthened. This “incontrovertible” and a war neces— and issue loyalty above all” citizemy too weak—minded
“Housing  this area has doubled  to  giram,dt(i:ot,hviIizi1s Ierxpohsed. Poiiirteil sughestcioln, andtanyi othiciar in favor sary. How many moirefnations must to   abpiﬁilssues. It is my h0p((itlIi‘lt2:Itiali3H1ri&i1ey
A _ s owe 0 at aq as soug 1 — urt er e ay, is siinp yn cu ousan support our action e ore we’re no remaining oug conservatives an er s a e
' I'CCI1l1ll lhﬂ last flVC ears . . .” legal aluminum tubes crucial in the downri ht dan erous. Providin lon er actin unilaterall ? will be able to come to some consensus on government
g g 8 g g Y t
, manufacture of nuclear weapons and Saddam with more inspectors to de- The evidence is in and the case policy when our generation becomes the leading one.
 Lowe SM2111ag€1 attempted to purchase prohibited ceive will not change the situation. is clear. To echo President Bush, Otherwise, Congress will resemble nothing more than
n  The Trident, our estoernod Competition magnets and equipment used to en— The UN must now prove that it will “Let’s roll.” our editorial sections do now.

that a well-intentioned student might be convicted of an act
that he could not have known was an Honor Violation? As
such, is the single-sanction the only appropriate punish-

dalism? Your participation in the coming survey largely de-
termines our recommendations to the EC regarding current
student opinion on speciﬁc matters such as these.

v M J_ Sam Slice Mr White Book review unden/ray, input sought
DearEditor,

Editor in chief Katie J. Howell

0Pi"i0"S E61170’ B1'e“T- Kifwall Since its first meeting in September, the White Book merit foranHV, or does it perhaps require administrators and When the WBRC solicited the responses of alumni a

Arts & Life Editor Catherine C. Guy Review Committee has solicited the opinions of alumni, students to overlook small Honor infractions simply because few months ago, the Honor System was overwhelmingly

it Photo Editor J eb Brooks students, and faculty regarding the state of the Honor Sys— the punishment seems incommensurate with the crime? endorsed as the ﬁnest and most enduring aspect of a W&L
Sports Editor Erin J lllius tem and has considered various proposals for the modifica— One of the issues the WBRC has debated most heat- education. It is our duty on the Committee to ensure that

Asst. News Editor Caley Anderson tion thereof. A edly is the matter of conﬁdentiality surrounding EC trials. this deﬁning institution at W&L remains something in which
Photographers Tallie Jamison On the most abstract level, we have considered how Does the strict conﬁdentiality leave EC members unaccount- students take pride. In the coming weeks, the WBRC will

K C0dyGabbard well and on what principles the Honor System functions. able as elected representatives? The difﬁculty is balancing circulate a survey to ascertain the opinions of those in the
COP)’ Edimr Donny Banks Does the Honor System effectively fostera “community of the desire to see EC members held responsible for their W&L community. In the meantime, White Books are al-

trust?” Or does it operate as a prosecutoiial system based decisions and the desire to protect the rights of the ac- ways available outside the EC ofﬁce, and your thoughts

Business Manager Paul Seifert mostly on fear? cused. Requiring the EC, collectively or individually, to write and perspectives as students, faculty, and administrators

A3515 B “S "1955 M “"085 V Th0m3S Worthy W&L’s Honor System prides itself on being a system opinions substantiating their rulings might not only leave are most welcome at whitebook@wlu.edu. The participa-

!‘ Circulation Director Henry Grimball ' that can adapt with each new generation of students rather them open to harassment, but, in detailing the specifics of tion of the entire W&L community in this triannual process
AdV€"iSi"8 A5 S is 10711 McQueen Ca1Ve1't than 21 Codiﬁed Set Of p10SCIibcd actions. But does the “ly— an alleged honor offense, it would likely reveal the identity is crucial to the ongoing vitality of the Honor System in the

« _ i t i _ irig, cheating, stealing” clause on the first page of the White
d ThedR’"ig‘t”i’i” Pif” 13 plilgilflshijfd hidondagidurtline the Book contradict the Honor System’s claim to be non-codi-

u.n er"ra. ua 6 SC .00. year a as ”‘.g on an Ce “‘V°T' ﬁed, and in the process perhaps limit what the EC is likely to

H‘ sity, Lexington, Virginia. The Washington and Lee Publi— Consider as a breach of Honor? Does the Home , led na

cations Board elects the Editor in chief, but The Ring-tum _
phi is otherwise independent. tiire of the Honor System leave students in the dark, such

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible subniis—
sions and letters. All submissions must be e-mailed to
)1 phi@wlu.edu or in the University Center mailbox by 5
pm. Friday to appear in the following week’s edition. The
Ring—tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for con-
tent and length. Letters and columns do not necessarily
reﬂect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Ad-
ly veitising does not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi
or its staff. This newspaper observes current court defini-
tions of libel and obscenity.

of the accused. At the same time, current procedure pre-
vents students from knowing if their EC representatives are
indeed representing their opinions and views on Honor.
As for specifics, should any or’ all of the following be
considered HV’s: Fake ID usage? Sexual misconduct? Van-

years to come.
Sincerely,
The White Book Review Committee

SEE LETTERS, PAGE 4

   f1Y011’ve seen iecentl 

The Ring-tum Phi
Mailing Address: University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Street Addre.s's.' 31 Washirzgton Street
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060

      

” ’e“"‘ .i54‘;’. e‘62i‘40if9 “Robert E. Lee. . . alive.” “A couple holding hands.” “Wax jackets.” “Social conformity.” ‘Ei0I::r:$1:;::favtv2-
ma1.'prwu.eu r . r ‘t . r e 0 [1,
imp‘,//phi Wiuiedu -Jacob Spencer 06 —Matthias Dachtler 03 -Joanna Slack— Exchange —Dave Newheiser 03 g_Sam Ruseu ‘ii

 

    

PAGE 4

Hollywood behoden to

With the exception of former U.S. Seriator-tumed-‘ ‘Law
& Order”-star Fred Thompson, policy-makers largely stay
out of the acting world. Why can’t it be the other way
around?

Granted, Ronald Reagan did successfully make the
jump from acting to leadership, but he was always a much
better leader than he was an actor. Of late, a group of
Hollywood stars so anti-Republican they put Barbra
Streisand to shame have made a sport of slamming the
Bush administration’s Iraq policy. Apparently, they won’t
be happy until Matt Damon is installed as Secretary of
Defense. ' '

Of course, in times of national crisis and on issues of
national importance, it is imperative to include a mix of
intelligent, insightful voices from a variety of perspec-
tives. This current movement, however, cannot be seen as
anything but stubborn attention-grabbing by a Left Coast
coterie. The baffling and obstinate “Hollywood loves Iraq”
mentality can best be summed up by this recent dialogue
between a CNN interviewer and Martin Sheen, who’s not
a president but plays one on TV. A

CNN: “Suppose you are wrong (about a pre—emptive
strike against Iraq). Suppose that’s what is needed.”

Sheen: “I don’t understand how I would be wrong.”

These actors actually believe statements like that are
effective refutations against hard evidence of Saddam
Hussein’s reign of terror.

Not to be outdone by the likes of Hanoi J ane-warmabe
Sheen, a.k.a “Baghdad Bartlett,” Sean
Penn has added his voice to the mix. In
October, the actor-tumed-activist of
Dead Man Walking fame dropped
$50,000 to print a full-page ad oppos-
ing a possible war.

Then, Penn spent three days in December making
front-page news touring Iraq (escorted by Saddam’s lack-
eys) and slamming the Bush administration for its “crimes”
against the Iraqi people (ostensibly, no one told him of

RIGHT ON!
[QHN  HEATH ‘()4 * the ex—Mr. Madonna. Could it be that, in

MONDAY, FEBRUARY N, 2003

UEiNioNs

     
  

Hussein’s numerous human rights violations and his dic-
tatorial brutality). After returning home, he quietly admit-
ted that the Butcher of Baghdad had used him as a propa-
gandistic tool for the brutal regime.

Not to question the actor’s motives for visiting Iraq,
but before his three—day stint as a
Saddam’s personal propaganda puppet,
Penn was perhaps best known as being

his mind, being a washed-up political ac-
‘tivist is better than being a washed-up actor?

Thankfully, the American people have enough sense

to pay attention to actors on the screen and ignore them
in real life. One can only hope that the United Nations and
our European fair—weather friends can steel their nerves.

“-e”iP°ma<>>'

' Huoaxmrsruiuanbcarii
WANNABE. Martin Sheen, above asjosiah Bartlett of “The West Wing,” wishes he could play president on more than just TV.

After Colin Powell’s dramatic performance at the Security
Council last Wednesday, only the most remote bastions
of American liberals refused to see Saddam for the threat

I he is. Remarkably, our “friends” on the other side of the

Atlantic did not seem moved.

The U.N. ’s Resolution 1441 clearly stipulates that any
false statement, omission, or other form of non—coopera-
tion with the inspection process would be considered a
“material breach.” Now is a do-or-die moment for the United
Nations; if they do not enforce their own mandates, they
risk more than creating enmity among Americans—they
risk irrelevance.

Let’s not let Sean Penn and his ilk command the spot-
light on this issue. It’s time for the diplomats to prove that
they know how to do more than double-park.

Plagarism and deception plague efforts on Iraq

Blair published dossier largely stolen from dated academic papers; is deception leading us to war?

Things are getting a bit murky in the
world of international politics. E! In a time
when world leaders are trying to make
cases against Iraq and convince those
skeptical that war is the only option, the
truth is not always what is to be found.

“Blair acknowledges ﬂaws in Iraq
dossier,” from Friday’s Washington
Post, shedsﬁl light on the issue by point-
ing out some major flaws in the docu-
ments that
the British
Prime Minis-
ter used to
convince
British citi-
zens of the severity needed in dealing
with the Iraqi nation.

The nineteen-page dossier, entitled
“Iraq —— Its Infrastructure of Conceal-
ment, Deception and Intimidation,”
states in its introduction that it was writ-
ten using several accountable sources,
including intelligence material. How-
ever, when the British intelligence ser-
vice was asked about the document their
spokesman stated that they were in no
way involved in the creation of the _
document.DTheir only explanation was 4
that the document was solely a creation
of 10 Downing Street.

What is more, the document is not
even as genuine as that.ElUpon further
inspection, the document is found to
be mostly carbon copies of academic
papers.l]Blai'rs dossier used excerpts
from a twelve year old paper written by
a California graduate student that re-
ferred to intelligence reports leading up
to the Gulf War.l1This portion of the

LEi~'i or CENTER
NICK RAMSEY ‘O3

     

FAKE Like Tom Skeham, a Tony Blair look-alike, the Prime Ministers dossier Wasn’t all it seemed

ons inspector Scott Ritter, who opposes
President Bush’s Iraq policy.

The Prime Minister’s press secre-
taries also were forced to admit that the
off1ce’s junior communications staff, not
British intelligence, assembled much of
the dossier. V

But deception does not stop
here}? We other academic papers were
used in this falsified report, including a
paper from last year published in the
Middle East Review of International
Affairsﬂ

That article's author, Cambridge‘
University lecturer Glen Rangwala stated
that by his calculations eleven of the
nineteen pages of Blair’s dossier “were
taken wholesale from academic papers,”
reported the Post.

Here in the U.S., the problem is that
this dossier was cited by Colin Powell
in his address to the United Nations
Security Council last
Wednesday.DPowell praised the docu-
ment for its “exquisite detail.” How can
a plagiarized document relying on re-
ports that are more than a decade old
give any relevant information to cur-
rent situations in Iraq?

I am still not saying that there is i
no problem with Saddam Hussein’s
actions.DHoweve,rI think a statement
made by Britain’s former Defense Min-
ister Peter Kilfoyle says it best: U “Itjust
adds to the general impression that
what we have been treated to is a far-
rago of half-truths, assertions and
over-the-top spin. I am afraid this is
typical of the way in which the whole
question of a potential war on Iraq is

LETTERS, FROM PAGE 3

,1 Blacks not underrepresented in Greeks

Dear Editor,

I am writing to respond to last weeks article
“Blacks rush, pledge” and I’d like to title this response
“Whites choose to ignore big picture.” The fact of the
matter is that the school does not really present Greek
organizations as racist and a number of minority stu-
dents do not have the belief that they are.

Since we want to talk statistics, I’d like to point out
that among the population ofblack students there are about
21 males. Of that‘2l there are currently about six participat-
ing iri the Greek system. That is over 25%. In other words,
over a quarter of the minorities eligible to be part of a frater-

nity do so. I think that statistically that is a pretty big chunk. O

For some reason, it is difficult for people to accept
that most black students do not want to spend thou-
sands of dollars to listen to bands we don’t like, drink
beer we don’t want and participate in a host of other
events that don’t appeal to us. Those who are inter-
ested in such things go for it and are supported by the
black community. In fact there have some cases in which
a black student has been both Greek and a member of

MSA at the same time. So you cannot accuse MSA of .

encouraging segregation in that manner.
We are on a small campus full of individuals and
we should respect and appreciate each other as indi-

viduals and stop trying to make everyone be the same. 0

Sincerely,
Kaela Harmon ‘05

“Know” was a no-no

Dear Editor,

On the point that the original Hebrew word trans-
lated “know” in Genesis 19:5 does not have sexual impli-
cations, look at these verses in Genesis which use the
same Hebrew root, yadha: 4:17, 4:25, 19:8, 24:16, and
38:26. It is true that the same root is used in an innocent

sense in other verses, but the context of “know” in these 0

verses makes it clear that it is not quite so innocent.
Indeed, Lot characterizes the Sodomites’ request to

“know” as wicked. How would a desire to meet someone

be a breach of hospitality and wicked, deserving of the

total destruction of two cities? Additionally, why would ,

Lot offer his virgin daughters in place of his visitors?
The theory that “the sin” of Sodom and Gomorrah was
inhospitality simply does not hold up under scrutiny.
Sodom and Gomorrah were wicked in all their ways. .-

It is true that the Bible has been used to justify
evils in the past. But Christ’s message was about more
than love and acceptancewit was also about truth,
faith, repentance, and salvation. “Repent: for the king-
dom of heaven is at hand” (Matthew 4:17). “He that
believeth in him is not condemned: but he that believeth
not is condemned already” (John 3: 18).

In the ﬁiture, Mr. Ramsey, you might do more thor-
ough research.
Sincerely,
Kyle Sulli, ‘06

Lewis wrong on abortion,‘ God does care

Dear Editor,

Rian Lewis’ (“Abortion better off Legal,” February 3)
argument is shaky at best, and downright unintellectual
at worst. In fact, I was frightened when 1 read it. She seems
to argue that because in “medieval times” poor, victimized
would-be mothers induced miscarriages and carried out
abortions, we should be thankful of the “safe, sterile”
abortions that modern medicine provides. There is no
such thing as a “safe” abortion—successful abortions
have a 100% fatality rate, guaranteed.

Once again, the disarming rhetoric of “rights con-
cerning a woman’s body” is laid on thick. Hiding be-
hind the term “pro-choice,” she believes that a woman
has the right to choose whether or not to abort the
baby. So, if you support her choice . . . and her choice
is to abort . . . then you are for abortion in these cases.

As misguided as Lewis is, she is a gift from God. In
fact, the acts of love and sexual union are also gifts
from God. So don’t kid yourself; God has everything to
do with every action and every sexual union. The mis-
use and abuse of one of God’s greatest gifts is not
something to be taken lightly, horny or not.

If I were Ms. Lewis, I wouldn’t.be as concerned
with the Supreme Court as I would be with my court
date in front of The Most Supreme. Doing 25 to life is

document cites no current intelligence Post, “The dossier even repeated the ish newspaper, The Times, reported that being treated.”

whatsoever.ElMoreove,rthis piece of paper’s typographical errors.”
Saturday, the embarrassment deep-

propaganda does not even credit the

the California student that authored the
paper actual.ly gathered his information

Why are our world leaders trying
to sell the public a war against a decep-

easy compared to eternity. Deal with that. '
Sincerely,

paper it copied from.ElAccording to the ened for the Prime Minister when a Brit— from a 1999 book by the former weap- tive tyrant with deception? Joseph M. Harouni ‘O5

Em51s0'D0-§2.000fm':;ooaa'Shidei'#Grmp—-

, ,. "fired of the Old Valentlroe

C31-ind‘?

Roses, Teololg Bears 1 . _ >'

Heart shaped Boxes of clioootate
GET (‘)B_(3I.-N°:fll.lll

M ‘F

Fun Foods & Accessories 1

To Really Make Your Sweetheart Smile‘ ,,

 
    

    

  ..

 

]“.&‘)§t}:tx;'}" l’v.ii'ii.iir.-i.i:s7r"1j; crsilisiins. ixse-riladfilit. No  ﬁn siilﬁisi. Just "§I.K1i£$2li§
‘ Fi§i‘l1,"§*'§li'I.li’lﬁ date; we tilt:-1,; qislizkly. rte: with the pmgravars fleas! WM?!

6s.a...mpus »

ii‘i<'m.r '1‘}ri.»iri'r!»ii¥ .'.4‘r2im:r fr)? >£‘rif!¢:s;*¢: }"'rii.rir.‘l'mii.i-£r:,g.

 ~ rtiirlstamrvslsriifralset-as

Make a difference 1'l'iis

# 1 Spring Break Vacations!

Cancun, Jamaica, Bahamas, & Florida.
Best Parties, Best Hotels, Best Prices!
Group Discounts, Group organizers travel free!
Space is limited! Hurry up & Book Now!
1-800-234-7007

   

www.endlesssummertours.com summer Wh|l€ h(lV|ﬂg ‘H18 [Ignaz '|u|||.'|.'|,:s
° ° PASSION DROP!
‘time of_ your life . mmmmu“   g
- . . Counselors and ClC‘l'IVl‘l'y leaders needed to ‘ “gm”
2 bedroom apartment for rent in Lexington .
for next school yearfor $550.00 per month. work OT Summer: Pumps for Chddren and lo-VI!‘-lg‘!
Low cost central heatand air conditioning. Richmond and Roanoke, Vlf‘9ll'll0- CClmP "N. _ ‘I
, 0WneFPaYSf0rWate|'&SeWer- season: early June—mid August. .
Common area washer & dryer. ‘ Visi-r our. webs;-re 01- 13 5‘ Md" sggmuve ~464"4433
Call Realtor Joe Vita at Vita &Associates, Inc. WWW.va.eaS,rer,_sea's_or,g/r,ichmond V5

at 463-9551 for details. j(°"°"’  5”“ ’ 3*” Wm‘ ’ “W °”‘‘“’’°’-'’ 9‘

or call (804) 633-9855.

 

 

‘V

CATHERINE C. GUY
ARTS & LIFE EDITOR "l"l*II‘-9' RlN(}"'ll'l.i\’l Pill
¥EMAlL:GUYC@WLU.EI)U  &  K____
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 2003 PAGE 5 Q

*Marshall Museum misses mission

By HAYNES KING however, most of the information is displayed on big
’ TRAVEL CORRESPONDENT boards typed out. Overall, this is nothing particularly
impressive.

At the other esteemed institute of higher learning
right here in our ﬁne town of Lexington, and no, I am not
referring to Rockbridge County High, I visited the
Marshall Museum this week. After ﬁnally mustering up

Ithe courage to cross over and make the dangerous
voyage over to VMI, I felt better because I know that I
don ’t have to attend school in that prison. Well enough
of this digression, lets get back to the destination at
hand...

The Marshall Museum is dedicated to one of VMI’s
most beloved and well-known alumni, George C.
Marshall. In 1901, Marshall graduated from the Virginia
Military Institute as the highest ranking cadet. Upon
rjgraduation, he then joined the military and was trained

as an officer prior to the outbreak of World War I. In
1939, Franklin D. Roosevelt chose Marshall to be the
Army Chief of Staff. Most of you probably know
Marshall best for his famous “Marshall Plan”, which he
formulated as Secretary of State after the second World
War. He was given the Nobel Peace Prize in 1953 for his
work in this ofﬁce.

If you are a big WWII buff, or even ifyoujust like

(the military a lot, then I would recommend that you go
and visit this historical museum. I personally thought
that the museum had way too much information that
you had to read. To fully take in all that this museum
has to offer, one would spend a large amount of time
‘doing nothing but reading. There are some audio and
visual aids to enhance your tour of the museum;

4'

*Playin’ in basement

“Art enhances the soul. ”
“Music gives hope in the existence of a God. ”
:7 —Kurt Vonnegut

Java Night at the GHQ: what’s expected is
never there, while the unexpected is always sitting
at the table next to you, waiting for that ideal time

‘when you think everything is fine and ordinary to
surprise you once more. (Hence, all attempts at
studying during Java will prove to be a futile
effort.)

,» Upon hearing about “Alex Wilkins and Friends”
playing at Java, I decided to waltz on over to the
GHQ. With a test the next morning, I planned to settle
comfortably in a booth, have a nice latte and listen to
the music while diligently reviewing my notes on

’‘ plate tectonics (oceanography class). As it turned
out, “Alex Wilkins and Friends” surprised me with
the unexpected.

Walking into the GHQ’s “basement,” I

‘ discovered that not only was the band interacting
with the audience, but also one of the band
members was actually verbally assaulting a front-
row audience
member! What the

Vheck? I thought
myself with
smile.

The band
member continued his banter, continually directed at
that poor, distraught soul in the audience, until ﬁnally
dedicating the next "song to him, entitled, “Grieco.”

The band members are an eclectic and somewhat
random group: Alex Wilkins, the so-called

#“ringleader” of the group, conﬁdent and always in
control; Jordan Wolff, the humorous, sarcastic, and
light—hearted guitar player (and who writes songs like
“Grieco”); Connor Kirsch playing the percussion - a
chill, come-what—may type of guy; and Laurence Eaton
who sings the laid—back Robert Earl or Willie Nelson
songs — a quiet, content dreamer on the mandolin
and bass.

So what happens when you throw four distinct

xand opposing personalitiestogether in a band? It’s
either a) complete disaster from the start or b) a
reﬂection of diversity in its most ﬂavorful light — a
melting pot of gold.

Alright, so that sounds a bit cheesy and the band

‘(members themselves are probably leaning more
towards answer “a.” However, I thought the show
was an “extra”ordinary (meaning, much more than
ordinary) mix of genres, themes, and tunes. Playing

y the latest hits from the DJ party Saturday night (“Hey,
must be the money!”) mixed with some Rolling Stones
and Beatles, while occasionally throwing in a few of
those down-to—earth cowboy tunes, the band
presented the audience with a wonderful blend of

‘feel good music, poetry, and nostalgia. And with
several self-written songs, “Alex Wilkins and Friends”
deﬁnitely created for themselves a profoundly unique
persona and a show nothing short of craziness, fun,

);and good times.

They’re the new and upcoming band — so be sure
to hear them play: Wednesday of Honor Scholars Week
(place TBA). According to Wilkins, “We’ll play
anytime, anywhere, for any large amount of money!”

‘Oh, and they’re in search for a new band name — any

ideas?

I

' Write for Life!

 

ON THE ARTS
_LAURA LEIGH BIRDWELL ‘O3

call x4060 or email guyc@wlu.edu

 

The highlight of the Marshall museum
experience would certainly have to be the replica army
jeep located in the front hall. The best part of it is
that they will even let you climb up in it and play
around.

Luckily, this museum tour is free to all visiting
students from Washington and Lee. Otherwise, I
would have been extremely disappointed that I had
spent my good money to visit this place. And I
definitely wouldn’t ever even think of taking a date
here.

I would feel really bad giving this historical
museum zero tridents, so I decided that I would give it
one. But after walking out of the museum, looking
across the parade grounds, and being overwhelmed
with the feeling of“Damn I’m so glad that I don’t go
to school here,” I had to give it an extra half trident

just for that.

Haynes and Jeb give the Marshall Museum 1 1/2 out of5 Tridents.

Haynes and J eb will be back in March to give
more travel advice

W&L needs code of behavior for laundry room

BY AsHLEY METZLOFF
STAFF WRITER

We’ve all done it. And at some point in our
lives, we’ve all had it done for us. No, I’m not talking
about that (whatever your that may be, it definitely
isn’t what I’m talking about); I’m talking about
laundry!

Laundry is the bane of every working person’s
existence, a constant but necessary evil that has
plagued mankind since the exeunt from the Garden of
Eden. We all need to wear clothes unless we are the
young gentleman from 31 l, and we all have to wash
those clothes in order to exist and function in modern-
day society. After all, no one wants to be the stinky
kid. So what we’re going to talk about today, boys
and girls, is the culture of what I like to call laundry
etiquette.

I first noticed that laundry had an overt culture
when I came to W&L this past fall. Until then I had
always done laundry in the privacy of my own home
(I still do my own laundry when I go home), but
with my entry into the brave new world of college
also came the entry into the brave new world of...
using public laundry machines. There are several
problems with public laundry culture; basically,
some people have proper laundry etiquette, and
some do not.

There are two main types of launderers: those who
dump the previous occupant’s laundry wherever is
convenient so they can do their own wash, and those
who show up at the exact minute when their clothes
are ﬁnished so they may protect their precious clothes
from being thrown wherever is convenient for the
person who is stalking their machine like an intent
bird of prey.

Perhaps the “remove promptly” types are
concerned about wrinkles, perhaps they don’t like the
idea of their newly washed clothes being thrown
haphazardly down onto the dusty floor, or perhaps
they just don’t like the idea of a stranger plunging
their dirty hands that have been Lord—knows-where

into an elbow-deep pile of their unmentionables.
Whatever the reason, these members of the “remove
promptly” class certainly have their act together. Yay
for them!

As for those of you who fall into the dumper
category, shame! How could you? Why can you not
wait? Surely you must have faith
in the launderer before you,
surely you must believe that any
moment they will come to rescue
their parent-paid-for clothes, fold
them diligently and with the
utmost of care, thus freeing up
the machine and allowing you to
use it to its fullest potential and
continue the great laundry circle
oflife.

But you... You lose hope so
quickly. Perhaps you have tried
to hold out before and have been
bitterly disappointed, waiting on
the same washer for three
consecutive days, staying up
nights watching and waiting,
watching and waiting until you became as dejected
as Ms. Havisham from Great Expectations and lost
all hope. I can see you now in that first bitter
moment: You step in with your plastic hamper full of
crumpled clothing and scan the machines to see if
any are unoccupied. Seeing that none are, you look
at the machines with wads and wads of finished
clothing still inside, and then the idea first leaks
into your mind  All you have to do to complete
your own wash is... move them.

It all seems so simple, so trivial, but then comes
the moral questioning. Is it right to move someone
else’s clothes without their permission? Your mother
always told you not to mess with things that don’t
belong to you, so you scan the premises to see ifthe
owner is absentmindedly standing by. The only
person you see is me sitting on top of a washing
machine appearing to do homework while I’m really

I FIRST NOTICED THAT
LAUNDRY HAD AN OVERT
CULTURE \x/HEN I CAME TO
W&L THIS PAST
‘ PALL.TIIERE ARE sEvERAL
PROBLEMS WITH PUBLIC
LAUNDRY CULTURE;
BASICAIIY, SOME PEOPLE
HAVE PROPER LAUNDRY
ETIQUETTE, AND SOME DO
NOT.

IE3 BRooIc/ 7heRing4um Phi -
THE PRIDE or: VMI: The Virginia Military Institutes Marshall Museum and itsjeep (insert) are free to all W&L students.

watching your every move to see what you’ll do next I

because I’m doing laundry research, and since I
clearly do not wear boxers, you decide that the owner
is not present. You shift in your steps, befuzzled and

confused, and finally after a full three seconds, you i
decide to do what’s best for you. You shove and‘
unconsciously‘
supporting the great laundry law’

stuff, thus
of every man for himself. You exit,
satisfied with your assertive
nature, just as a young man enters

the floor. _ L, ,. ,

Other laundry no-no’s:
Gentlemen, ifyou must wash your
jock straps in the public laundry
room, please, please, please do
NOT leave them therewhen your
washer/dryer is the only one
available to use. There are some

things that we girlsjust don’t want’

to see.

Also, please remove all band-aids before you
place your clothes in the washing machine (yes, this
is from an actual experience). I mean... yuck. And
although it’s not technically a rule, removing the lint
from the dryer filter is always a considerate and kind
gesture.

Laundry tip: If you’re a fraternity pledge, I
recommend using Victoria’s Secret luxury detergent
and lavender water on any laundry you are forced to
do that does not belong to you. They told you that
you had to wash their clothes— they didn’t say with
what.

So ends the tragic tale, and so begins a new cycle
(forgive the pun) of soiled to clean. Life is beautiful,
and don’ t you forget it. So remember kids: Be on time
to pick up your wash, stay off the drugs, tell your
momma you love her, and always, always use
detergent.

Tyranny of groundho g Punxsutawney Phil ends now

BY DANIEL PORT
DAILY TROJAN (U. SOUTHERN CALIFORNIA)

(U—WIRE) LOS ANGELES — Sunday was just another day
in California. The scent of smog and homeless people
peppered downtown Los Angeles and there were few
clouds in the sky.

For the winter-experiencing or “real” United States,
however, Sunday meant another visit from Punxsutawney
Phil, a groundhog that foretells whether
spring will be early by the appearance of his
shadow.

This delightful tradition stretches
back more than 100 years. Phil has
appeared in ﬁlms and television and has
met celebrities such as Pennsylvania Gov.
Ed Rendell and even Oprah Winfrey.
Young people love his adorable buck teeth
and fuzzy cheeks and old people love him
because, well, old people love everything.
His charm, however, is a charade to mask
the startling truth.

Punxsutawney Phil is pure evil.

Phil seems to think it’s cute and funny to curse this
country with another six weeks of winter. His “predictions”
are startlingly accurate — a bit too accurate. Theorists
have proposed that the groundhog does, indeed, control
the weather. The facts don’t lie.

Of the 107 recorded predictions made by
Punxsutawney Phil, 93 predicted winter would continue.

 

PUNXSATAWNEY PHIL

My meteorological research conﬁrms that, indeed, winter
tends to last past Feb. 2. Very interesting.

Year in, year out, it’s the same thing: our country falls

victim to the meteorological omniscience of this deceptive
and manipulative ground-dweller. I say no more!
My attempts to book an interview with this devious rodent
were met by runaround and miscommunications. The
Punxsutawney City Hall referred me to a fan club phone
number, where his secretary or “lackey” scoffed at my
attempts to contact Phil.

“You want to talk to who?”

“Phil.”

“Phil? The groundhog?”

“That’s right.”

“Are you on any medication right now?”

“Don’t change the subject, lady. I want
that weather—controlling fur ball on the phone
rightnow!”

Obviously fearing I knew the truth, she
hung up. Lacking the funds to travel to
Pennsylvania, or even make another long-
distance call, I searched the Internet for some
insight into the activities and motivations of
this shadow—seeker.

I discovered that records of Punxsutawney Phil’s
“predictions” date as far back as 1887. That means that
this groundhog has outlived his life span by at least 90
years. So not only does Mr. Groundhog control the
weather and act nauseatingly cute, he is apparently also
immortal.

Our country has fallen victim to this beast for the last
time.

I have a plan. Just the other day I happened to catch
part of a documentary involving both time—travel and
groundhogs.

The main character was both amusing and brilliant
regarding all things groundhog. Thus, by enlisting the
help of this “Bill Murray,” I’m sure I can free our country
from the claws of our hole-digging demigod.

Only seven of the last nine years have been attached
to Phil’s reign of continuous winter, so it appears he is not
completely without compassion. This, however, will be
exploited as weakness and used to overtake him in a
horribly bloody offensive. It’ll be like that scene in the
cave in “xXx,” except without all the poor acting and
baldness.

Phil will likely utilize his weather—controlling skills to
try and strike down myself, Mr. Murray and our some
10,000 armed militia members. As Phil bombards us with
hail, sleet and lightning, we will attempt to collapse his
underground fortress in the manner employed by Murray,
albeit unsuccessfully, in another one of his documentaries.
This one involved golf, I believe.

So join me in my crusade to thwart an aggressor that
has extended winter in 93 of the last 116 years. Help
ensure that Feb. 2 will be marked by wives starting to
nag their husbands about Valentine’s Day, not burrowing
rodents named Phil dictating weather changes. The time
is now.

Lock and load, Mr. Murray.

and begins to exclaim through the ’
mediums of profanity that his '
c_lo.t_hAes haveiallibeienﬁdumped onto '

  

 

 SPoRTs

 

Women’s basket   

BY Joan HYLAND
SPORTS WRITER

_ The Washington and Lee
women’s basketball team snapped
a four game losing streak with a
44-38 victory over Randolph-Ma-
con Women’s College on Wednes-
day night and then lost a tough
55-50 decision to Guilford. Both
games were played in the Warner
Center.

Their win improved the Generals’
record to 3-14, 3-12 ODAC while the
loss dropped
RMWC’s record

C}.«‘e.'1'<{j.E1 nir. 1.~.ER'r

Wildcats to just 29 percent shooting.
Forward Emily Barker, ‘05 made 6
of those steals. W&L also held
RMWC’s leading scorer, Meghan
Stenrud, who came into the game av-
eraging over 17 points, to just 7.

While the Generals did not trail
at any point during the game, they
did play a fairly sloppy second half in
which they shot just 19 percent and
scored only 16 points.

Twice, the Wildcats cut the
game to within ﬁve points during the
second half with just over 8 minutes

left and at the
1:20 mark. The

t0 3-14, 1-12 Generals, how-
ODAC GET.\'E‘.R~21:'~I.3 it-:; i’i£ffl3‘E€:irI“a'; even Would not
The Gener- yield further and
als Opened the MEX? W"E4Ei”;: were able to pre-
game 0" e “*2 Ti_I1:sn..u*:  I~'-sir- Serve the Vie-
run and took a V __ wry,
comfortable 23- .x'.<::...r«-.E*«tt.~:IT EE:»E€31€7t" .9;...‘.€1”r on Friday
15 lead into the ['_%:VE-- night, the Gener-
half. a ' als hosted a tal-
Themajority WEDNESBAYF  ented Guilford
Of W&L’S Of‘  team that entered

fense came from
forward Sarah
Michaels, ‘04
and guard Louisa Feve, ’O6, who
scored all but 10 of the team’s points.

Michaels ﬁnished the game with
19 points, 10 rebounds and 3 steals
while F eve added 15 points, 10 boards
and 4 steals.

The Generals dominated this
game defensively with a tough,
swarming defense that made 19 steals
and forced 30 turnovers and held the

Men drop two, comeba Snfternoon 

the game with a

13-5, 10-3 ODAC

record, leaving
them just a game out of first place in
the ODAC to Emory and Henry.

It was clear from early on in the
game why Guilford has been so suc-
cessful this season. They are a very
athletic team that plays a disciplined
game and has a lot of depth. Never-
theless, this game was very tight from
the beginning.

The first half was a defensive

Generals manage a win against Lynchburg

BY AIusoN PERRY
SPORTS WRITER

The Washington and Lee men’s
basketball team added two losses to
their record this week, but came back
on Sunday to win.

The Generals fell to Emory and
Henry, 67-80, on Wednesday and to
Hampden-Sydney, 60-67, on Saturday.
W&L pulled out a close win over
Lynchburg on Saturday, 63-62.

The Generals held E&H guard
Justin Call to 16 points on Wednes-
day, down from the 46 points he
scored in their last meeting.

W&L was down 44-3 1 at the half,
but cut the Wasps’ lead to 50-44 with
14:35 left in the second half.

E&H’s 41.3 percent shooting for
the game helped them to add another
30 points before the half was over.

The Generals had 23 turnovers
and 36.4 percent shooting for the
game.

Sophomore guard Ian McClure
led the Generals with 13 points, with 4
shots from three-

point range. game.
Freshman Shooting
forward Phil Scot[Het[e1manadded17 percentage from
Landes also - the ﬂoor was
added 12 points p°“’_t5’9mb‘_’und5"nF14 close with.
for the team.  L y n c h b u r g
T h e Hamﬂlalsoputinlopoims shooting 42.6
H a m p d e n - and th and W&L shoot-
Sydney Tigers Sleboundsm egame ing45.5.
handed W&L an- was broadcast on\WDRL- Hettermann
other loss Satur- - - led the Generals
day in a close TvW1rh950peOple1n with 16 points
game at Warner attendance andacareer-high

Center. With 4:40
left to go in the
game, McClure sank a free throw to
cut the Hampden-Sydney lead to one.
After several missed shots by the
Generals, Hampden-Sydney guard
Brandon Randall made two free
throws with 9 seconds left to end the
game.
The Generals had 21 turnovers
in contrast to the Tigers’ twelve.
McClure posted 22 points, and
senior captain Scott Hettermann
added 17 points, 9 rebounds, and 4
assists.
Junior captain Hamill Jones also

   
 

 G3 Sparta.

came watch ithe Generals’  we

put in 10 points and 6 rebounds.

The Tigers were led by junior
guard Jeff Monroe and junior guard
Brandon Randall, who both contrib-
utedl5 points each.

The game was broadcast by
WDRL-TV in Roanoke with 950
people in attendance.

The Hampden-Sydney Tigers re-
main undefeated at 21-0 overall and
15-0 in the ODAC. They are ranked
first in the ODAC and second in Divi-
sion III.

The Generals pulled out an
ODAC win on Sunday over the
Lynchburg Hornets also in Warner
Center.

With 11 seconds left to go in
the game, sophomore guard Mike
Stuart made a layup to secure the
win.

The game was tied up at 27-27
at the half. The Generals took their
highest lead in the second half
with a four-point advantage at 7:50
left to go. The lead went back-and-
forth several times after that until

the end of the

12 rebounds.

F r e s h In a n
guard Ryan Flynn also had a career-
high with 13 points. Stuart helped out
with a career-high seven assists.

The Hornets were led by sopho-
more center Ryan Pehanik with 18
points.

The Generals are now 6-15 overall
and 3-12 in the ODAC. They play in
more ODAC action next against Guilford.

W&L fell to the Quakers in a
close game, 55-57, when they met in
Warner Center on January 8"‘.

The conference match-up will be
at 7:00 p.m. at Guilford.

battle, as the Generals had a diffi-
cult time penetrating Guilford’s full
court press and tough, trapping
man-to-man defense, shooting just
18 percent from the ﬁeld in the ﬁrst
half.

On the other end of the court,
however, the Quakers also had trouble
scoring against the Generals zone de-
fense.

Guilford shot just 29 percent
from the field in the first half. For
the game, W&L was able to limit
leading scorer, sophomore forward
Courtney Hill, to just 2 points, well
below her season average of 15.6.
Guilford took a 19-17 lead into half-
time. ’

The scoring opened up in what
was a very exciting second half.
Guilford went on a 13-4 run early in
the half to give them a 35-24 lead with
13: 10 remaining. It seemed that
Guilford, the deeper team, would
cruise to victory.

Ten players for Guilford saw sig-
niﬁcant playing time while every
W&L starter played at least 33 min-
utes.

The Generals then went on 12-0
run of their own A 3-point shot by
Michaels with 5:45 left gave W&L a
43-41 advantage. Consecutive bas-
kets by Barker and Dannelly extended
the Generals’ lead to 47-41 with 4:27
remaining. '

Guilford came right back, however,
with three 3-point baskets, two consecu-
tive baskets by junior forward A.J.
Robertson and a ﬁnal trey from junior

guard Nicole McCrory that gave the
Quakers a 50-47 lead with 1:19 left. But
the Generals would not be denied.

JEE BRooI<s/IbeR1'ng4um Phi

Arnamrrr. Freshman David W111 goes up for a basket in Sunday’s game against

Lynchburg, which ended with a win for the Eagles.

..,,..

rientaizt Erin at X4060 fer detaiisl

 

--«M

  
   

KATIE HOWE1L/ 7beRing4um Pbi
Srnr.AusdnCaH1mmprepmestogoaﬂermeIeboundasSarahMidmelsmkesashot

Michaels hit a 3-pointer with 42

seconds remaining to tie the game at
50. The basket gave her 24 points for

    

ERINJIIIIUS

SPORTS EDITOR

EMAIL: JUIIUsE@WIII.EDU

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 10, 2005

the night, a game high. On the next
possession, McCrory found
Robertson again and she con-
nected on another 3-pointer, with
19 seconds left, to give Guilford a
53-50 lead that would turn out to be
the game winner.

Michaels was unable to
connect on the potential game-
tying three. Two free throws by
sophomore guard Aftan Medlin
sealed the Quakers 55-50 victory.

Despite the loss, the Gener-
als played an outstanding game
against a team that has the ODAC
title in its sights. This game was
tight in every way. Both teams
grabbed 34 rebounds. The Gen-
erals committed 16 turnovers to
Guilford’s 17 and the Generals
shot 35 percent from the ﬂoor for
the game while Guilford shot 36
percent.

In addition to Michaels excep-
tional offensive performance, the
Generals had some other notable
contributors. Feve finished the
game with 12 pints and 3 assists.
Dannelly added 10 points, 5 re-
bounds and 4 assists and senior
center and C0-captain Austin
Calhoun grabbed a game and ca-
reer-high 12 rebounds.

The Generals are next in action
Sunday afternoon at 2 in a non-
conference game against
Shenandoah. They get a chance to
avenge this loss in the ﬁnal game
of the regular season, on February
22 at Guilford.

Track competes at
Christopher Newport

BY MARY CImIsT0I>IIER
SPORTS WRITER

Plagued by injuries and absences,
the Generals expected a rough week-
end. They knew, however, that if they
worked hard individually good things
would come. 8

The throwers got the team off to a
great start. Brian Gallagher threw a
strong 35-10 and Chris Walker threw a
37-6.5, giving him a 18”‘ place ﬁnish.
For the women, Audrey Walker threw
a 30-10.5, resulting in her 12”‘ place fm-
ish. In the long jump, Senior Chris
Sullivan represented the Generals with
his leap of 22’2.

The sprint team also had many
strong performances. For the men
Chris Sullivan returned from his jump-
ing with two outstanding perfor-
mances. His 7.26 time in the 60m-dash
gave him a 5“ place in the Division 3
ﬁnals.

He also scored 13"‘ in the 200m
dash with a time of 23.60. Other 60m
dash runners, Lee Stinnett, Jonathan
Brimer, and Brian Krucpzak ﬁnished
with times of 7.72, 7.54, and 7.34 re-
spectively. In the men’s 200m dash,
Joe Greenhill, Hugo Diaz, and
Jonathan Brimer ran hard at 25.87,
25.32, and 24.21.

The women sprinters also did ex-
cellently in the 200m. Captain
Meredith Walker led the way with her
time of 29. 1 8, followed closely behind
by Kim Gunst with a 30.10 time, Amy
Bacastow with a 32.34, and Angel
Daniels witha 33.88.

The Lady Generals also competed
two runners in the 400m-dash as op-
posed to the 60m dash which they fre-
quently run. Meredith Walker ran a
66.12 and Kim Gunstran a 67.75 for her
first time ever running the event!
Many men also competed in the 400m
which was lead by Brian Krucpzak with
his time of54. 10 and Jonathan Brimer
at 54.29.

The distance team had a very in-
teresting collection of runners and

Wrestling Drops Two Matches

events. They were looking forward
to a strong Distance Medley Relay
team but due to the absence of Erin
Johnson, illness of Liz Twentyman,
and injury of Mary Christopher,
they had to withdraw.

Two of the women that were
able to perform Friday night did a
wonderful job. Samantha Snabes
and Jessica Remmert ran the 5000rn
run with times of 21:35.41 and
21:41.62. After recuperating that
evening, the pair went on to com-
pete in the 3000m run Saturday, Jes-
sica leading the way with a 12:41.78
closely followed by her counter
part Samantha, who ran a 12:43.42.

Unfortunately, the distance
squad was unable to enter anyone
in the 800m dash a very common
race for the Generals, but did race

two individuals in the 1500m. An- A

drew Johnson, with his injured
ankle, ran an outstanding 4:20.54
giving him a 24"‘ place overall ﬁn-
ish at the competitive meet. And,
due to the illness of Twentyman,
Mary Christopher took her spot in
the event, earning a 5: 19.26 time and
a 16"‘ place overall ﬁnish. Although
there weren’t many competitors for
the distance team the few that did
perform, performed well!

Although it was hard for the
coaches to deal with the great deal
of last minute changes, they
worked well under the pressure and
were extremely supportive. Coach
Hoey and Aldridge videotaped from
the bleachers while Coach Tucker
and Schuckert gave the runners
their splits from the sidelines.

The Generals worked hard all
weekend, continued making im-
provements, and gained motivation
for their next big event- The In-
door ODAC Championships two
weeks away at VMI. Many indi-
viduals are placed high among the
competitors and they, along with
their coaches, look forward to meet-
ing the challenge!

Washington and Lee’s Wrestling team dropped two matches at the
Johns Hopkins Quadrangular on Sunday aﬁemoon. The Generals’ record
is now 2-1 1 overall, 0-6 in the Centennial Conference. First, the Generals

lost to Hopkins, 44-6, then dropped a much closer decision, 29-24, to
Albright.174-pound Brian Avello, ’05, did record a 9-5 decision over Johns

Hopkins’ Mike Yuhaniak while 197-pound Mike Bennett, ’04, recorded a
4-3 win over Johns Hopkins’ John Polena. 133-pound Grant Krapf, ’O6,

141-pound John Polena, ’03, 165-pound Alex Poor, ’03, and Bennett all
won by forfeit against Albright. The Generals’ mext match is Wednes-
day when they host Southern Virginia.

W‘

)‘

streak ~

t

 

— .c 37% .755

  

 

/-lurch

R553-
Q/-105
\°~‘2\
C'2—-—

Student

  

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

«   NG-TUM

Tile rinelenl wire of Wnrllingien and lee Unieerrin rinee 7897 (D Online in‘: pez'.wln.eeln

prepare for Dress...Fancy Dress

PEI  

Weeks of planning, preparing will pay 0 during ‘Dressed to Kill: Always Shakln’ Never Stirred,’ this year’s $80,000 Bond-themed Ball

Ry BY CALEY ANDERSON ,
ASSISTANT NEWS EDITOR

This Friday, March 7, will mark
the date of the 96th Washington
(Y and Lee Fancy Dress Ball. This
year’s theme, “Dressed To Kill: Al-
ways Shakin’ Never Stirred,” fol-
lows a theme modeled after the
James Bond movies. Dress, as al-
I ways at the FD ball, will be black
tie. Featured alongside this year’s
FD will be George Clinton, the
noted modern musician who is
4 probably best known for his work
on the Austin Powers
soundtracks. His band, the P—Funk
Allstars, will accompany him.

The Fancy Dress Ball, which
will take place from 9p.m. to 1a.m. in
the Warner Center, is the largest
and most organized formal event on
campus. The Fancy Dress Comrnit—
tee, which usually has its first meet-
ing in Fall Term, continues to work
on plans and preparations for the
Ball right up until the day it takes
place. This year’s ball is no differ-
ent and is the result of ‘months of

brainstorming and work on the part '

of the FD committee. Parts of the
effort that go into each FD include
preparing the Warner Center, se-
lecting a theme, advertising the Ball
(this year the effort included the
classy Bond posters and the super-

sized silhouettes in Bond poses
that could be found in, among other
places, the C—School and the Co-
op), and mailing the Ball’s invita-

tions, which this year took the form
of tuxedo-shaped cards.

Tickets and FD 2003 memorabilia
can be purchased in room 109 of the

t 
MONDAY, MARCH 3, 2003

March 7, 2003

University Center any day from to-
day until Friday from lOa.m. to 3p.m.
Payments accepted are cash, check,
and swipe—it-home. The cost of a

 

JEB BROOKS / The K1'rr‘g—l/ml PM
ticket includes the price of the actual
Ball as well as the cost of attending

the concert featuring George Clinton
and the P—Funk Allstars.

V
LIPSYNCH FOOD
I?
N’
Y
K
‘T
N‘
‘Y
W
X
4' ]EE BROOKS / T/ie Ring-I/ml P/ii
LOTS OF HOTDOGS. Students Against Rockbridge Area Hunger (SARAH) is distributing fee for spectators and a $100 entrance charge levied on participating Greek organizations at
more than $9,000 worth of food to the community. The funds were raised at recent ]anuary’s Lip Synch festivities. Funds from students who chose to skip recent meals at the
campus—wide activities. Organizers purchased 11,084 pounds of food, including 300 Evans Dining Hall added to the donation, as well. The skip—a—meal program had 280
pounds of hotdogs. The food is destined for organizations in Rockbridge County, participants. The remaining fundswillhelp buy turkeys next Thanksgiving. Recipients of
T Lexington, Buena Vista and Glasgow. The groups will beneﬁt from a ten dollar admission the food battled \X/ednesday’s snow—storm.

. W&L supports affirmative action, not quotas

‘I

'5'

.University examines fr

Y

Fl

BY MATTHEW MCDERMOTT
CONTRIBUTING EDITOR

Washington and Lee entered the national debate over
affirmative action by joining an amicus curiae brief which
supports the use of race in university admissions.

An amicus brief advises a case’s judges and is is-
sued by a party uninvolved in the litigation, here the two
suits challenging the University of Michigan’s afﬁrmative
action policy.

W&L is one of over 30 universities that filed a brief
supporting late Supreme Court Justice Lewis Powell’s
opinion in University of Califomia v. Bakke (1978), which

“We were invited to sign (other briefs),” said W&L
President Tom Burish. “This one appeared to us to be the
one most in line with our views on the topic.”

According to the University of Michigan’s web
page, over 80 organizations have signed various amicus
briefs on its behalf, including Microsoft, the American
Bar Association and the National Organization for
Women. A

University Counsel Leanne Shank took the lead role
on this issue for W&L, Burish said, and the Board of
Trustees discussed the issue at length at its last meeting.

“In the end the Executive Committee of the Board
voted to sign the particular brief that we signed,” Burish

“W&L supports Justice PoV'vell’s guidance in Cali-

i fomia v. Bakke and the precedent that diversity is a com-

pelling interest to allow private [universities] to take race,
as one of many factors, into consideration in admissions
decisions,” explained Tom White, director of communica-
tions. ,

Powell, a W&L alumnus, graduated from the College
in 1929 and the Law School in 1931.

The case under consideration could affect W&L’s
admissions policy.

“Even though W&L is private (unlike the University
of Michigan), it receives federal funding,” said Associate

permits affirmative action but not quotas.

BY MEGAN MORGAN
SENIOR STAFF WRITER

On Thursday, February 20, a fire broke
out at The Station, a popular Rhode Island
nightclub, a result of pyrotechnics used by
the band Great White in their show. The fire
spread quickly due to the fact that the build-
ing was one story with a low ceiling, was
wooden and had flammable soundprooﬁng
foam insulation on its walls. As a result, 98
people were killed and 187 were injured,
some critically. As more information emerges
about the cause of this horrible accident,

said

many nightclubs are reexarnining their fa-
cilities and the potential ﬁre risk they pose.

Here at Washington & Lee, univer-
sity officials have been reexamining fra-
ternity basements to ensure that they are
a safe party enviromnent foristudents. In
the past, the University has not taken an
official stance on the use of pyrotechnics
by bands brought on to campus. How-
ever, as a direct result of the accident in
Rhode Island, Washington & Lee’s Safety
Ofﬁcer Paul Burns has drafted a letter to
the fraternities stating that all individuals
negotiating contracts with a band must

aternity parties in light of nights

ensure before hiring them that no pyro-
technics will be used in their act. The let-
ter be run through the university counsel
and should be sent out next week. In the
meantime, the Safety Director has been
taking several other steps to ensure‘ that
parties are safe for students. He is work-
ing with the Fancy Dress committee to
make sure that none of the bands that will
perform will use pyrotechnics in their act.
He has also reprimanded fraternities which
have thrown theme parties with a high ﬁre
risk. For example, one fraternity that filled
a room with anti-static peanuts received

SEE BRIEF, PAGE 2

ubfire

both a complaint from him and a letter from
Dean Atkins stating that packing peanuts
and other ﬂammable ﬂoor covering such as
sawdust are strictly banned.

While pyrotechnics are a dangerous
fire and risk and while the university is tak-
ing some steps to make fraternity parties
safer, fraternity basements pose a much
smaller safety risk than nightclubs such as
the one in Rhode Island. The Station was a
wooden structure and was in violation of
basic fire safety codes. However fraternity

SEE FRATS, PAGE 2

Na’lspeaker
will address
ea ing disorders

BY KYLE WASS
SENIOR STAFF WRITER

This past week marked National Eating Disorders Aware-
ness Week, from February 24-— March 3. The Washington
and Lee community has marked the event with a presenta-
tion by Caroline Miller, a nationally known speaker on the
subject, as well as informational cards throughout campus.
An estimated 10 million people in the United States
suffer from one or more eating disorders, and 90% of that
ﬁgure is made up of teenage girls and women. The most
common eating disorders are Anorexia Nervosa, and Bu-
limia Nervosa, both characterized by periods of starving
oneself, among other symptoms. A person with anorexia
suffers excessive and unhealthy
weight loss due to restrictive eating,
feeling “fat” despite being dramati-
cally underweight, and an intense fear
of weight gain, which lead to other,
more serious and life-threatening
health problems. Bulimia is charac-
terized by secretive bingeing and
purging. Abulimic will overeat exces-
sive amounts of food and then try to
get rid of the food through vorriiting,
use of laxatives, or fasting, among other methods. Both
situations cause serious and long—tenn consequences for
both physical and emotional health. Anorexia can cause
loss of muscle mass, fatigue, low bone density, low blood
pressure, hair loss, loss of menstrual periods, and a growth
of ﬁne hair on the body. Sufferers may never be able to
get pregnant and their habits may result in severe os-
teoporosis. Bulimia causes chronic digestive problems
and chemical imbalances that adversely affect the heart
and other major organs, resulting in the possibility of sud-
den death.
Dr. Jane Horton atthe Student Health Center said that eating
disorders are “as prevalent [at Washington and lee], if not more
prevalent, than in the general population,” likely due to the com-
petitive nature of the school, where people “push themselves in
every aspect, including appearance.” Areoent survey of college
women found that 91% of women had attempted to control their
weight through dieting. People with eating disorders are often
very secretive about their eating problems, so many cases go
undiagnosed and untreated Aside from
the students at Washington and Lee re-
ceiving treatment for an eating disorder,
there are “many more not in treatment,”
according to Dr. Horton.
Because part of the illness is a state
of denial, many young women do not go
to seek counseling or treatment on their
own, so Dr. Horton stressed that “if ﬁiends
can be aware, that makes a diﬂerence,”
and that people need to be aware of how
common eating disorders are, know the
warning signs, and be aware of the resources available for treat-
ment. The sooner the illness is recognized and treatment be-
gins, the more successful the treatment is likely to be. Effective

. treatment includes “a combination of counseling or psycho-
therapy, nutritional treatment and medical care,” according to Dr.
Horton. Psychological treatment, to help prevent relapse, must
be aimed at the underlying causes of the eating disorder, as well
as the behaviors and symptoms.

Washington and Lee currently offers many resources for
those who are suffering from eating disorders, as well as for
friends and family. Psychological conditions that are not di-
rectly related to eating disorders have caused a tenfold increase
in the cases Washington and Lee counselors have seen in the
past few years. Washington and Lee offers evaluation of eating
disorders and other psychological conditions at the University
Counseling Center (x8590) andthe Student Health Center (x8401),
as well as help from peer counselors and the Ofﬁce of Health
Promotion (x4501). Washington and Lee also offers a com-
pletely oonﬁdential support group with Dr. Christy Barongan at

SEE EATING DISORDERS, PAGE 2

I MILLER

    

 HRON

 

 

i  raxrmassw
’-.?":'?‘?*.Y‘l'.ﬁ!,V!A amp

PAGE 2

WAR 0 6 2003

    

mail news briefs to

16 W&L Students Heading to Capitol Hill

Sixteen Washington and Lee University students will
be spending the spring semester with some of the nation’s
most respected companies and government ofﬁces, in-
cluding CBS, C-Span, The White House and the oﬂices of
Congressmen Robert Goodlatte (R—Va.) and Joseph Wil-
son (R-S.C.) in the Spring 2003 Washington Term Pro-
gram.

About 250 students annually pursue majors in the
Williams School of Commerce, Economics, and Politics.
W&L is the only university among the top 25 national
liberal arts colleges with a nationally accredited school of
business. W&L also is ranked the 15”‘ best liberal arts
institution in the country, according to U.S. News and
World Report.

Christopher Hitchens to Speak

Christopher Hitchens, a longtime columnist for The
Nation, Vogue, Granta and The London Review of Books,
will discuss his work on Wednesday, March 5, at 7:30 p.m.
in Lee Chapel at Washington and Lee University. The
speech is open to the public without charge. It is spon-
sored by W&L’s student-rim Contact Committee.

Christopher Cokinos to Speak

On March 18, Christopher Cokinos, author of Hope is
the Thing with Feathers, will speak in Northen Audito-
rium at 5:00. Hope is the Thing with Feathers draws paral-
lels between the extinction of 6 different birds and Cokinos’
own life experiences Written for the lay person, the book
focuses on Cokinos’ personal reactions to the various
species’ descent into natural disappearance.

W&L Ethics Defends lit/e

A team of Washington and Lee University students’

will defend the University’s winning debate record on
Monday (February 24) at the statewide Ethics Bowl Com-
petition sponsored by major corporations and the Virginia
Foundation for Independent Colleges.

The team of four W&L undergraduates, coached by
James E. Mahon, an assistant professor of philosophy,
will compete against student debate teams representing
14 other private colleges across Virginia in the fourth an-
nual competition, which this year focuses on ethical di-
lemmas in business in the wake of the Enron scandal.

Caroline Miller to Speak

Caroline Miller, author and noted speaker and expert
on eating disorders, will speak today at 7:30 in Lee Chapel.
Her speech is being Sponsored by LIFE, Panhellenic,
WLSO, KEWL and Women’s Forum.

Prof. Paul Griffiths to Speak

Iowa State University History Professor Paul Grifﬁths
will speak on “Moll Cut-Purse, Cross-Dressing, and the
Gendering of Crime in Early Seventeenth Century Lon-
don” on Monday, March 3 at 7:30 p.m. in Northen Audito-
rium in Leybum Library on the Washington and Lee Uni-
versity campus. The talk is free and open to the public.

Grifﬁths received his Ph.D. from Cambridge Univer-
sity. His publications include the soon to be released book,
“The First Bridewell: Petty Crime, Policing and Prison in
London, 1545- 1 660.” He is also the author of “Youth and
Authority: Formative Experiences in England, 1560-1640”
(Clarendon Press, 1996). He co-edited the collection of

 
 
 

 

essays, “Londinopolis: Essays in the Cultural and Social
History of Early Modern London,” (Manchester Univer-
sity Press, 2001).

Prof. Richard Martin to Speak

Emory University Professor Richard C. Martin will
discuss the events of Sept. 11 with Washington and Lee
University students on Wednesday, March 5, at 4:30 p.m.
in the Northen Auditorium of Leybum Library.

Martin, who will deliver a University-wide address
the following day, is scheduled on March 5 to discuss
“September 1 1 : Clash of Civilizations or Islamic Reforma-
tion.”

Prof. Velasquez Publishes New Book

Professor Eduardo Velasquez of the Politics Depart-
ment has recently published a new book, Love and Friend-
ship: Rethinking Politics and Aﬂection in Modern Times.

Velasquez’s book, published by Lexington Books, a
member of the Rowman & Littleﬁeld Publishing Group, is
an ambitious investigation of the most inﬂuential accounts
of love and friendship in Western history. A unique explo-
ration of the most compelling human affections and asso-
ciations, Velasquez probes the depth of the intimate rela-
tionship between psychology and political life.

W&L Biologist Receive NSF Funding

The National Science Foundation (NSF) has awarded
a $374,754 grant to Washington and Lee University biolo-
gists David M. Marsh and Paul R. Cabe for their continu-
ing study on how the building of roads is increasingly
fragmenting threatened forest habitats.

The three-year NSF grant will enable the W&L fac-
ulty members and their undergraduate students to inten-
sify their ﬁeld surveys, ﬁeld experiments and genetic analy-
ses to determine how different types of roads affect the
density, dispersal and gene ﬂow among terrestrial sala-
manders in forest habitats.

George Singleton to Speak

George Singleton, writer and author of the recent book
of short stories, “The Half Mammals of Dixie,” ‘will speak
in the Northern Auditorium on March 24th, at 4:30

Singleton’s work has appeared in The Atlantic
Monthly, Playboy, and Shenandoah. The Half Mammals
of Dixie follows Singleton’s ﬁrst book of short stories
These People Are Us and has the distinction of being one
of the top ten books published in 2002, according to the
editors of Amazon.com. His stories have appeared in ﬁve
volumes of the annual anthology New Stories From the
South.

Shepherd Prog. Receives Federal Grant

Washington and Lee University will receive a $500,000
grant recently approved by Congress to expand and en-
hance the Shepherd Poverty Program, which merges stu-
dents’ academic study of national and global poverty is-
sues with intensive ﬁeld work in the United States "and
LatinAmerica.

The Congressional grant, part of this year’s omnibus
appropriations bill, was advanced by Sixth District Rep.
Robert L. Goodlatte, chairman of the House Agriculture
Committee, and Sen. John Warner, chairman of the Senate
Armed Services Committee. Assisting them in their ef-
forts on behalf of the unique W&L program was Sen. Tom
Harkin (D-Iowa).

Valerie Wayne to Speak

University of Hawaii Distinguished Professor Valerie
Wayne will speak at Washington and Lee University on
Monday, March 10, at 7:30 p.m. in the Northern Audito-
rium of Leybum Library. Wayne will discuss her studies
of English and literature in her lecture, titled “Shakespeare’s

 
 
 
      
    

Cymbeline, Colonialism and the Ancient Britons.”

She holds a B.A. from DePauw University and an
M.A. and Ph.D. from the University of Chicago. Wayne
teaches courses on Shakespeare, Renaissance women
writers, feminist literary criticism, English Studies and lit-
erature. The lecture is free and open to the public.

Alice Steinbach to Speak

Pulitzer‘Prize-winning writer Alice Steinbach will be
this year’s Washington and Lee University Woodrow Wil-
son Visiting Fellow, visiting with classes and students in
several departments during the week of March 24.

Steinbach, who won the 1985 Pulitzer as a feature
writer with the Baltimore Sun, will deliver a lecture entitled
“A Short Guide to An Interesting Life” on Wednesday,
March 26, at 7:30 p.m. in Lee Chapel. The lecture is free
and open to the public.

1 Lexington

Weekly

 

Forecast
Monday- Mostly Surmy, 40/26

Tuesday- Partly Cloudy, 54/46
Wednesday- Showers, 46/29
Thursday- Mostly Cloudy, 50/35
Friday- Showers, 59/44
Saturday- Showers, 57/41

Sunday- Scattered Showers, 53/32

MONDAY. MARCH 3. 2003

Sororities learn
consequences
of ‘risky behavior’

BY MEGAN MORGAN
SENIOR snrr wrzrrnz

On March 2, members of W&L’s ﬁve sororities
attended “Something of Value,” a seminar focused on
the problems that arise from under age drinking, haz-
ing, alcohol abuse and other risky behavior. It addressed
the consequences of these actions and created a plan
of action in order to deal with them in the most appro-
priate way. The seminar was organized by representa-
tives from the National Panhellenic Conference and
was attended by the chapter president, social chair-
man, recruitment chairman, and Panhellenic delegate
from every sorority as well as two sophomore and two
freshmen members from each sorority. The program
also included a mock trial in which sorority members
and W& L Panhellinic ofﬁcers played the role of wit-
nesses and jury members. The trial involved a civil
lawsuit by a member ’s parents and touched on alcohol
and hazing related issues. Teresa Glassman, director of
student activities who helped coordinate “Something
of Value,” said of its seminar ,” As sorority women
come together to meet the challenges that face today’s
Greek and campus communities, purposeﬁil dialogue
is an essential component of development and posi-
tive change. Having seen “Something of Value” in ac-
tion on other campuses, I believe it will provide an
opportunity to capture the leadership talents and vi-
sions of our student leaders.”

Speakerto address eating disorders

EATING DISORDERS, FROM PAGE 1

3 p.m. on Thursdays in Fairfax Lounge. Atape of last
Monday’s documentary, Perfect Illusions: Eating Disor-
ders and the Family, among other informational videos,
are available with the Ofﬁce of Health Promotions as well.
Washington and Lee is also hosting speaker Caroline
Miller, at a presentation titled Dying To Be Thin — which

all the sororities are required to attend — on Monday,
March 3 at 7:30 p.m. in Lee Chapel.

The Student Health Center has also created a bulletin
board in which the Fancy Dress 2003 poster girl has been
dressed up to make her more realistic. Upset that the ﬁgure
pictures a woman suffering of anorexia, the Health Center
has added about 10-20 pounds around her hips in an effort to
make her look healthier, according to Nurse Barbara Woolston.

Quotas: W&L admin.

BRIEF, FROM PAGE 1

Dean of Students Courtney Penn.
A Court decision against afﬁrrnative
action, therefore, could possibly in-
ﬂuence its affirmative action policy.

Further, other preferences, such
as legacy or socioeconomic status,
could also come under legal assault.

W&L therefore considers race
“as one of many factors in the admis-

sions process, like legacy status, gen-
der, extracurricular and leadership ac-
tivities, athletic participation and
achievements,” White said.

Race, however, remains the prime
reason for the ﬁling. ’

“One of W&L’s goals is in-
creased racial diversity on our cam-
pus,” White said. Last term, whites
made up 88.4 percent of students;
blacks, 3.5 percent; Asians, 2 percent;

Due to the ingenuity of the 2003 Lambda Chi Alpha
pledge class, the March 3, 2003 issue of The Ring-tum Phi
and The Washington and Lee University campus will be
slightly less opinionated this week. They kidnapped the
Opinions editor, Brett Kirwan, and left him in Times
Square, New York City, New York. Thanks pledges.

s ays ‘ no ’
and Hispanics, 0.7 percent, accord-
ing to the University’s Institutional
Effectiveness web page.
Though W&L has joined the
brief, it did not compose it, nor was it
_ one of 18 colleges that appended an
“individual statement” to its end.
OnApril 1, the Supreme Court will
hear the oral arguments on the two
Michigan cases, Gratz v. Bollinger; et.
al. and Grutter v. Bollingeig et. al.

 
 

 

FRATERNITIES, FROM PAGE 1 P°°P1° 3 better °PP°““nit>’ t° 95°31”
“Asfarastheﬁatsgo,o1hertlranafew
basements Paul Burns states “are con- theme parties where they put ﬂammables

crete, they have ﬁre alarms and all but
one has a sprinkler system.”As aresult,
even if a ﬁre was to break out, it would
probably spread at a much slower rate,
be more easily extinguished and give

ontheﬂoor,Idon’tseeaproblem The
basements are mostly concrete and
cinderblocks, sothereisnothingthere1m-
less you bring something into ﬁnnish ﬁiel
forthe ﬁre,”said“so1mdman”BobbySmith

for agood time, (I)

Dixie. on our Veranda
.l\/lay-v()s::t<)'i.ter

 rs e.........._......j ‘

illlli

HOUSE"

Restaurant

..... .. r

rikgjoy e?r.’}:3:§.«z;r.rt ciiizir-tg in at restored’ 1820 Clas5ica!Rc*t=*z'i1)a£
2”r‘:3;%:£..*§';t§.9(}u.«I¢.’ in é’7i3ior‘2’c doazizrowa .z’..exing2*tm

  
  
   
    

“Ihe Q3est food in Lexirgton”
~C0ni{e Mast ‘Irar/ehr

TuestIay—5atun{ay

2003

30 North Main Street
in Downtown Lexington
(540) 463-3020
wwzr/.wi[£s0nwa[ker.c0rn

fine Diniry of £7{ist0ric T’r0p0rti0ns I

Lunch 11:30—2:30 ﬂinner 5:30-9:00
(Saturday Lunch not serz/erfjan.-{Man}

Reservations Jiequesterffor the fancy Dress Gaff —

  3   »...

U

    

 giégnra‘ i;
. P9.9.ll"”9 ..EVe"_t5.5  
..ta.'sa. at ila: é..;‘t-.l.l<s.‘}i.;nt‘ {E ﬁg. t...i;.r.::-*: %;li€;..l’§:,
Mason .3 ...°\§ 5°‘r°l 7%‘ W 71%»
.~.§av2:>i  lip-: *f...;»i'i{.:1.j”"’ ti  2.. <3 €.Zvi’iT.€;.I}.,,
lV\p.e.cg— 0 General hzemzsstog-'+ .
giiara al. ‘i.lé«:::?t Cgiiié§;),,:e> .ira.*“z;i  
t'\i-seer: \'l  Gram: NW6.-
»1;;°r‘%.?'éEi at i;i:::é €.§«7i7i.(.:E..:l”i ;ié.i1.««*t_-ae at ta
~.,M M'*°"‘ 1'3  Cukitouﬁ g  
Jars. at the t;~.iti.{.};.j«"e slate at i.it:;: i.§‘;.l‘:t<..I3
 (Si 09:» Mir. NW6-

 

Make a difference this
summer while having the

time of your life.
Counselors and activity leaders needed to
work at summer camps for children and
adults with disabilities. Camps located near
Richmond and Roanoke, Virginia. Camp
season: early June—mid August.

www.va.easter'—seals.or'g/richmond

Visit our‘ website at

or call (804) 633-9855.

‘A

4

2.
e 1
<\, ..>.

\..,

_,+'-x\§ _. .,,-e _
%$.cC‘»°‘ ﬂ . ' », W

 

... .4‘,

.::.»   by
;\..-1 iazr‘

9
WW

 

HAVE A GREAT FANCY DRESS-
Callus for your dinner needs

  

35 North Main Street
Lexington, VA 24450
(540)464-1887

 

 

  

MONDAY. MARCH 5. 2003

BY KYLE WASS
SENIOR STAFF WRITER

On”Ihutsday,March6,at 12:15 p.m.,

Washington and Lee will induct students

V into the prestigious Phi Beta Kappa so-
ciety of the Cincinnati convention.

Professor Richard C. Martin of

Emory University will speak at Wash-

ington and Lee’s Gamma of Virginia

V

V chapter convocation with a presenta-

tion entitled ‘”The Ethics of Saving and
Taking Life: A Comparative Analysis
of Recent Muslim Discourses on

N EWS

Jihad.” Martin is a distinguished pro-
fessor of Islamic Studies at Emory, and
a former professor of religious stud-
ies at Iowa State University and Ari-
zona State University.

Phi Beta Kappa is an honor soci-
ety that promotes the liberal arts
through fellowships, service awards
and literary awards, and which now
claims more than 600,000 members
throughout the country. Roughly
1 5,000 new members are elected a year,
after being nominated by their chap-
ter. According to Phi Beta Kappa’s

Web site, www.pbk.org, their golden
key symbol is widely recognized as a
symbol of academic achievement, and
the society is involved in a number of
advocacy programs to “spread the
message about the beneﬁts of a lib-
eral arts education.” Students inter-
ested in becoming a member of Phi
Beta Kappa should contact their chap-
ter officer for guidance on require-
ments and curriculum.

This year ’s inductees are as follows:

Class of 2003: Carolyn Anne
Campbell, Paul Martin Dampf, Julia

Elizabeth Fitzer, Agnes Maria Flak,
Avery Flinn Gholston, Allison Michelle
Gruer1wald,KyleGlennHealy,EIicGerad
Klingelhofer, Christopher Chance
Moreland, David Andrew Newheiser,
Kara Elisabeth Peterson, Courtney
Renee Ross, Claire Gibbons Smith, Jay
Randall Thomas, Carroll Armour Th-
ompson, Jeanne Ann Upchurch, Abigail
Van Veen, Courtney Pauline Warner,
Allison Semmes Warren, Jordan
Danforth Wolﬂ“, Ruth Hill Yeilding.
Class of 2004: Heather Elaine
Bane, Jonathan David Browder,

‘Phi Beta Kappa to induct 40 students

Mateo Caballero, Cullen O’Neill
Carter, Heather Lynn Coleman, Natalie
Gwen Deibel, Patrick Michael Fleming,
Austin Inj ae Kim, Lauren Lee LaRue,
Kemal Levi, Rebecca Marie Mitchell,
Christopher Adam Overholtzer,
Abigail Lauren Perdue, Benjamin
Nathan Rumley, Harry William
Schroeder, Elizabeth Maury Stegall,
Emily Michelle Tyson, Kenneth Lloyd
Walker, James Craig Zunka.

Class of 2002: LisaArm Chew.

Honorary Election: Richard C.
Martin, Professor, Emory University.

‘Atkins has long history at Washington and Lee

BY IMRAN NAEEMULLAH
CONTRIBUTING EDITOR

Y,

At many schools across the country, a
dean whose job is specifically to deal with
V Greek affairs might seem incongruous. How-
i ever, at Washington and Lee, where approxi-
mately three-quarters of the student body
are members of Greek organizations, it is a
must. For over 15 years, Buddy Atkins has
4 served as an associate dean of students,
with a special emphasis on Greek affairs. Yet
Atkins’ connection to this school goes much
further than his work as a dean. A 1968
graduate of Washington and Lee and a mem-
ber of Sigma Alpha Epsilon fraternity, he has
spent the better part of the last half century
at W&L.
Atkins’ journey to W&L was almost by
V chance. A native of Raleigh, N.C., he had
wanted to attend Davidson College since he
was in junior high. However, during his se-
nior year of high school, he attended
Davidson’s Homecoming festivities and re-
alized that something didn’t quite resonate,
and so he decided to start looking elsewhere.
One of the places he looked was, of course,
Washington and Lee, and his experience
if from the school got off to a good start. He
recalls putting a letter in the mail on a Mon-
day morning asking for more information
about the school, and receiving a response
by the end of the week. The next weekend,
‘ he and a friend drove up to Lexington to
tour the campus, and Atkins remembers
thinking how it was exactly as a college cam-
pus ought to be. That weekend was the same
yone that President Kennedy was assassi-
nated,Vso the nation was in] a period of

mourning, yet Atkins was pleasantly taken
aback by how graciously he was treated
despite the tragedy hanging in the air.
Needless to say, when he was offered ad-
mission for the fall, he gladly accepted it.
Atkins was a German major, but because
he finished his major by his junior year, he
decided to add another major, which was
known at the time as Contemporary Civiliza-
tion, and which was taught as a history
course integrating, among other courses,
much of his work in German, making it an
ideal second major. He was also active in ath-
letics, playing tennis, football and lacrosse
for W&L. He recalls that lacrosse was an es-
pecially competitive sport, because
at the time, W&L competed in la-
crosse as a Division I school.
After graduation, Atkins
spent several years teaching and
coaching at Virginia Episcopal
School in Lynchburg, during
which time he also attended Of-
ficer Candidate School for the
U.S. Navy to fulfill his service re-
quirement during the Vietnam
War. By the late l970’s, Atkins
was ready for a change and wanted to re-
turn to W&L. He secured a position in the
Alumni Office, serving for nine years as
both assistant director and then later as
associate director. Around 1983, he was
asked to assist with efforts relating to
renovating the fraternity houses, the
famed “Fraternity Renaissance,” and this
work made him a natural candidate for the
new dean’s position dealing with Greek
affairs. Atkins has now been serving in

this position for years, and has no plans

 

TKINS

to retire. One of Atkins’ favorite aspects
Of his job has been the ability to be in-
volved with changes in the structure of
the University. During the Fraternity Re-
naissance, he says he greatly enjoyed
helping to select the architects and talk-
ing to the alumni of various houses, con-
vincing them to sell their houses to the
University and then lease them back. Like
many others involved in the Renaissance,
he feels that it has made a positive contri-
bution to life on campus, particularly with
regard to respect for property.

Although Atkins does not directly in-
teract with Greek organizations on a daily
basis—for example, both the IFC
and Panhellenic Council have ad-
visors—he does actively collabo-
rate with fraternity housing corpo-
rations, helping to continue to
steer them in a positive direction.
In addition, he remains involved
with SAE, serving as their treasurer
emeritus, and continuing to visit
the chapter house and interacting
with the brothers.

His latest project is the Uni-
versity Commons, the planning of which
he has been involved in for many years.
He is very optimistic for its future, grow-
ing visibly excited as he talks about the
various benefits it will offer the W&L com-
munity. He especially looks forward to what
he hopes will be increased interaction be-
tween students and faculty, undergradu-
ates and law students, as well as Greeks
and independents. He also touts the in-
creased amenities it will offer, such as a
food court and a movie theater. To top it all

off, he says that it will all be ready by the
summer, so come Fall Term, the entire com-
munity will be able to enjoy it.

In the future, Atkins would like to see
more and better student housing made avail-
able. He feels that the present residence halls
are not conducive to building a sense of com-
munity, a key W&L trait he feels has declined
since he was a student. He would like to see
new, smaller dorms constructed with some
faculty housing adjoining, offering a greater
sense of togetherness. He would also like to
see more options for upperclassmen offered,
so that living off-campus is not the only at-
tractive option for juniors and seniors. He
says it is not necessarily a good thing that
nearly half the student body could be con-
sidered a commuter population judging by
their residence status. That said, he does not
want to see on-campus residence made man-
datory for all four years, since he does rec-
ognize the attractiveness of having one’s own
place.

At home, Atkins lives with his wife, and
enjoys the visits of his children, Drewry ’93
and Cole ’97. He also continues his lifelong in-
volvement in athletics, although he laments
that he is not as active as he used to be. Never-
theless, he does find the time to play golf and
tennis, go ﬂy ﬁshing, canoeing, as well as hik-
ing and taking walks. He laughs, “I never dis-
covered the outdoor activities in the Lexington
area while I was a student because I was a three-
sport athlete,” but points out that he is very
glad of the possibilities now. No doubt that the
present generation of students, grateful for the
Outing Club, will not take as long to discover
the abundance of activities available, and
Atkins surely would approve.

PAGE 3

 

A notice from

The Executive Committee
of THE STUDENT BODY

Gerald M. Titus, III
President

Kempton W. Presley
Vice President

Helen B. Hughes
Secretary

February 13,2003

A member of the Student
Body has withdrawn after
being charged with a
possible Honor Violation.
The student chose not to
have a closed Executive
Committee Hearing. The
student was charged with
lying to a professor about
a Politics ﬁnal exam.

PHI

 

Tm   

Editor in chief Katie J. Howell
Arts & Life Editor Catherine C. Guy
Photo Editor Jeb Brooks
Sports Editor Erin Julius

Asst. News Editor Caley Anderson

Photographers Tallie Jamison
Cody Gabbard
Copy Editor Donny Banks

Business Manager
Circulation Director

Thomas Worthy
Henry Grimball

Advertising Assistant McQueen C3lVe"t

zne-7' PIn'is,“"“ ‘,duringthe 4, 1
school year at Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia.
The Washington and Lee Publications Board elects the Editor in
chief, but The Ring-tum Phi is otherwise independent.
7heRing-nan Phi welcomes all tesporrible submimions and letter: All
stbvrrixiottsntusbee-rmiledtoptIi@wlued\Icnrinthe Unive:sityCexIer
mailbox by 5 pm Friday toappatr in the following weck'seditiovL Pie
Ring-lumPhiIBI:'vcsttr:righ1I1'Jedils|l:vtitssKxIs" foroonletlandlenglh.
Letmsamloolurnrtsdotttxtmemti r:tlet:tdIeo|x'IIkxiof7heRing-run
PhiEdimr'nlBoanl. AdvertisitIgd0esrKIIeﬂuxtheopitIionsofT}IeRr'rqz-
amrﬁrioritssaﬂ‘. ‘ihisrrewqxperobservesunternanntkﬁttnionsofliael
and obscenity.

The urn.-mu Phi
Maililg Addrur: Un1wvslI,v Center
Washington andlte Iinimsuy
uringran, Virginia 21450
sum Address: 31 Washington Sow:
Lzringlon. Virginia 24450

Telephone: rm; 1624060
ﬁn.‘ 1540; 463-1059

Ermu'I:phi@uIu.rdu

 

 

n
MARCH 1 3-1 5, ZOO3
i .
. PRE V IE W  EEI<El.\ID
S CHOOL OF COMMUNICATION & THE ARTS
' MEET CURRENT STUDENTS, FACULTY AND ADMISSIONS STAFF
AND TOUR THE NEW MEDIA AND PERFORMING ARTS CENTER
‘{ COSTS: WHO SHOULD ATTEND?
° A $135 REGISTRATION PACKAGE (FER JUNIORS & SENIORS INTERESTEI) IN A
PERSON) INCLUDES A LIGHT RECEPTION GRADUATE DEGREE IN THE
,( ON THURSDAY NIGHT, THREE MEALS COMMUNICATION ARTS:
ON FRIDAY, BREAKFAST ON SATURDAY +TI-LLEVISION
AND LODGING FOR THURSDAY AND +FILM
V1511‘ Us DURING lj?R1D.;¥ NIGHTS 9N CAMPUS AT +£HEATRE
, V _ V HE OUNDERS NN. + NIMATION
Ar PREVIEW WEEKEND ° A $59 PACI<AGI-9: INCLUDES CONFI:«:RI-:=.NCIa: +]OURNAI..IsM
AVD SEE  AND l\/II€i.AI,S WITH NO LODGING. +COMI\IUNICATION STUIDIES
w REGENT UNIVERSITY TRANSPORTATION:
Is ONE OF THE E HE UNIv(E)Rs1EY’s FOL%\I(/DERSGINN COME PREVIEW THE FUTURE
OCATED N AMPUS ILL LADLY
FASTEST”GROWING PROVIDE ROUND TRIP SHUTTLE SERVICE OF MEDIA EDUCATION IN A
:1 . T . _, ., . ., ‘
GRADUATE SCHOOLS EUR YOL. FROIM N§RI«OI.R INéI;RNATION.AI.
IN THE WORLD.  ESALHII ORIOLR Rl.+.YHOLl\1) CHRISTIAN ENVIRONMENT.
x
* <sITY.
I000 REGENT UNIVERSITY DRIVE, VIRGINIA BEACH, VA 23464-9800
757.226.4018 0 Fax 757.226.4039
' E-mail: preview@regent.edu
www.regent.edu/preview
N

 

PAGE 4

 

I

CATHERINECGUY‘
ARis&LrEEDr1OR ,
FMAll.'GUYC@Wlll.PI)U

MONDAY, MARCH 3, 2003

Gods and Generals receives mixed reviews from W&L students ‘A

Pro:

BY JEE BROOKS
PHOTO EDITOR

If you love Lexington, want to
know more about what it was like to hve
in the mid-19'“ century and have some
time to devote to that endeavor, Gods
and Generals is for you. The story,
adapted from Jeﬂ‘Shaaia’s book for ﬁlm
by Ronald Maxwell, tells the story of
the period leading up to and including
the first months of the War Between
the States, preceding 1993 ’s Gettysburg.

This epic is a historical jaunt
through Civil War era Virginia and
Maryland. Gods and Generals focuses
on the social-liistory of the period. This
makes the movie slow, but it is for effect.

The numerous references to
Lexingtonarecertairilyaboontoﬂieﬁlm
The most entertaining part of the movie
is the exchange between Professor and
Captain White of our own Washington
College and Thomas Jackson of The
Virginia Military Institute. Keepyourears
open for that one!

The bottom line: yes, you will need
a rather extended length of time to
devote to the ﬁlm and it is no general-
audience box-ofﬁce smash, but for those
who like the period, this movie is worth
seeing as soon as possible. This ﬁhn is
designed for those of us who have a
reverence for the past, and feel that the
period is an important part of that.

The preponderance of reviewers to
distribute single stars, D+’s or F’s to the
ﬁlm shows nothing but their ignorance;
at least in my humble opinion. See it,
enjoy it and don’t sleep through it.

PREPARING FOR BATTLE: Soldiers march onto the battleﬁeld in the recently released

Civil War epic, Gods and Generals. Much of this film features Lexington and its two

Artistic opportunities explode onto campus

Strangely enough, the arts calendar of events at
W&L seems to parallel the schedule of all W&L activities
— one week there is nothing going on, the following week,
everything is going on. The week before February break
was quite an exciting time for the arts
at W&L and Lexington and an
appraisal for them is long overdue.
In light of this new column and my
being an avid arts-lover, I had high
ambitions of attending every single
event of that particular week...and
came very close.

First, I attended the “Music from
China” concert. Who would have ever thought that
Washington and Lee could bring such a prestigious and
talented Chinese folk music group to Lexington, Virginia
for a Friday night concert? Their resume was quite
impressive, with concerts at the Metropolitan Museum of
Art, Carnegie Hall, Lincoln Center, San Diego Museum of
Art, and the Library of Congress. But even this extensive
list was just a mere background check — a preparation for
the audience — for a performance that was every bit as
impressive.

Their music was categorized as “traditional and
contemporary music.” The best description I can give is
bluegrass or folk music in Chinese form — I’d never heard
anything quite like it. With titles such as “Birds in the
Forest,” “The Fishennan’s Night Song,” and the “Wedding
Processional,” each song brilliantly captured the imagery
of the natural setting and the inﬂuence of the culture. I
think my favorite was “On the Grasslands.” According to
the excerpt under the title, this song “created a panoramic
view of nomadic life on the Mongolian
steppes.” Oh, so much more can be
said! The entire piece gave feelings

"”OTTHE”'ATRT§'T


harmonic note. However, in hearing Joyful Noise sing
with all their heart and watching them sway to the beat
of the music in the front of the church, I couldn’t help
but move my feet, clap my hands, and burst out singing
as though some tamed emotion
inside me had let loose and gone
‘wild — it was great! Haha! Even at
this moment while writing this
article, reﬂecting about my Sunday
church experience, l’m beaming
and I cannot help but feel, well,
joyful!

They always say that you’ve
got to let the Holy Spirit “get inside you,” feel it within
the depths of your soul. I don’t know what the heck
“got inside me” that day, but if the Holy Spirit feels
anything like what I felt that day, then Joyful Noise
has “got the power!” So, if you’re searching for
“something more” out of church/religion/God in
general, or if you just want a little “spark” of something
different, I recommend hearing Joyful Noise — their
music completely changed the so-called “normal”
experience of church services. They sing every second
Sunday of the month at First Baptist Church.

When I was a freshman, a senior told me that W&L
was too small of a school to produce musicals —
supposedly, we didn’t have the talent or interest. I don’t
think he, nor anyone else for that matter, could have
predicted the overwhelming interest or outstanding
talent of Working. W&L’s production of Working was
more than a success. A talented cast, in collaboration
with a brilliant student director, presented the audience
with a unique perspective of the
working world.

Working was directed by

of openness and freedom, as though IT TAKES ACERTAIN senior Agnes Flak. Arranged by
we were riding horseback on the vast UNIQUE TALENT To scenes each depicting a different
grasslands of the China like the PERFORMINAMUSICAL. occupation, the musical presented
Mongolians once did, many years JUST THINK ABOUT IT _ “the other side” of a job, from the
ago.Th b ' h 1 SINGINGISHARDENOUGH. perspectlilve that we dofn’t usu211(lly

e song egan wit a sing e ‘ notice-t e ers ectiveo the wor er.
instrument, the zhonghu, playing a BUT To SING AND No one stopps tolfhink about the effort
beat that imitated a galloping horse, PRETEND YOU ARE A of farmers who grow the lettuce we
and I pictured myself on a horse, COMPLETELY DIFFERENT use for our salads. No one thinks

wind blowing through my hair, riding
solo towards the sunset. The other
instruments soon joined in and
slowed the rhythm, creating the
image of an entire group of people
on a journey, riding their horses
together, off to some unknown destination. And as the
piece came to a close, the zhonghu player once again
played solo, this time to a slower rhythm, making it seem
as though an old, tired and lone rider slowly rode away
into the setting sun.

After the concert, my friend Gini turned to me and
said, “Hey, should I buy a cd? After all, when else will I
be able to buy a cd like this!” I smiled and thought about
the concert in general. When else in our life would we be
able to attend a concert like this — to hear a well known,
genuine Chinese folk group playing songs on truly
unique instruments that depicted their history and
culture? At that moment, I felt truly blessed.

Speaking of “blessedness,” I heard Joyful Noise
sing on Sunday at the First Baptist Church on Main
Street — talk about feeling the music inside you! I must
admit, I cannot sing and do not possess a single

PERSON, ALL AT THE SAME
TIME. . .Tl-IAT IS DEFINITELY
TALENT.

about the hard work construction
workers put into the building of the
roads we drive on. No one thinks
about the truck drivers, the
prostitutes, or the phone operators
and how they view their job and life.
Some embrace work ~ such as the assiduous
businesswoman or the enthusiastic waitress. Others do
it because their fathers and grandfathers did it and
therefore it was natural and assumed. For some, it was
just a way of life, a way to earn a living for their children.
And for others, work provided a means for thought,
reﬂection, and epiphany.

It takes a certain unique talent to perform in a
musical. Just think about it — singing is hard enough.
But to sing and pretend you are a completely different
person, all at the same time. . .that is deﬁnitely talent.
And from my perspective, the actors and actresses in
Working performed with such ease and grace, I couldn’t
help but think that it came naturally for them, almost
instinctively. That is what constitutes a fabulous
musical.

Next week: the King’s Singers.

PllOl0(XI)RIF5YWMVl~Kll.YlMXD.(X]vl

most famous sons. Robert E. Lee and Stonewall Jackson. The students of W&L, as
well as critics at large have reacted in a variety of different ways to the film.

Athletic passion smo

Con:   lr

BY BARRETT DAWS

STAFF ll

Film critic Kit Bowen’s advice toll‘
“Stay far away from the three hour?“
plus Gods and Generals-unless, of-1
course, you need a good nap” should‘l
be taken into consideration by those if
planning to view this ﬁlm.

Gods and Generals is one of the’ 1
most boring Civil War documentaries . It‘(
seemed as if ﬂie screenplay writers took 1
their lines straight from a textbook. The" AV
ﬁlm agonizes through the ﬁrst halfoftheb
war by meticulously drawing out some-"'5
key battles and the personalities of some“
Civil War Generals, most notably 1,
Confederate General Stonewall Jackson.”
TheﬁlmshouldhavebeenaP.H.D. paper?
entitled The Involvement of General
Thomas “Stonewall ” Jackson in the’?
Course of Events of the War between the‘ ’
States rather than a movie. 0*

Not only was the script and plot‘
boririgsowerethecinematicsandspecial’
effects. Films such as Glory, Gettysburgb V
and Saving Private Ryan, offer the!
audienoeasenseofthetruehorrorofwar.
Those movies provided awful images ﬂiatl
mal<eusthiril<,“Wow,howdidtheydoit?”'*' .
Goals and Generals pitifully depicts thél Y‘
battleﬁeld in comparison. Not once in the
oourseofanyofthebattlesdidlgripmyl»
chairasweall didinSavingPrivateRyan.“! O

My advice is, if you want to see a? 
good movie about the Civil War, see)
Glory. Its only two hours long and is‘:-‘
an enjoyable ﬁlm for those of us who“
do not like to be bored out of our minds
by watching the pages of a textbook) 1'

unfold on the screen.
ll ,

lders at a D3 school 

n

I

With a few ticks left, senior Pi Phi Mike Weil dribbled
the ball down the ﬂoor and, with two Sigma Chis in his
face, threw up a last—second 3-point prayer that
miraculously swished through the basket. The shot was
enough to give Pi Phi the win, but the referees ruled that
the shot came after time had already expired. Thus,

athletics are a way of life. A large percentage of the 
student body participates in a varsity sport. These; 9
athletes don’t compete for national recognition or for V
million—dollar contracts. Instead, D3 athletics are all,
about playing for the love of the game. Unlike students:
at massive state schools, we don’t support our athletes

despite the incredible last—second
dramatics, Sigma Chi escaped with an
intramural basketball victory.

One of the typical complaints
submitted against small, Division—3
schools like W&L is the lack of “big”

athletics. Certainly our athletic atmosphere is a far cry
from the WVUs, the UFs, the UTs, and the UKS of the
world. We don’t have nationally televised games. We

don’t have stadiums that can hold 50,00

boys. We don’t give full athletic scholarships, and we
don’t have those wonderful athletically—induced majors
such as “General Studies” or, my personal favorite, “Arts
and Letters.” We don’t organize massive trips to support
our teams for away games, and we will probably never
advance an athlete to a major sports league.

But as any alum will tell you, W&L has a proud
athletic history. It’s,tough to imagine our school battling

such D-l juggemauts as VaTech, WVU,

late as the l950s, it was a reality. Then came an academic
scandal that involved some athletes, and our university

decided (rightfully so, I think) to sacri

status for the sake of high academic standing — a choice
which one of my professors said was more controversial

than the switch to coeducation.

Yet today our athletic tradition continues, but at
W&L, athletics are not a craze for sports fanatics ~ instead,

BY PETER DJALALIEV
WEB EDITOR

Realizing that a large number of
students from the U.S. go to study abroad
every year, The Bureau of Consular
Affairs Department of State has recently
released a Travel Safety Information for
Students, concerning the consequences,
which US. students can face, if caught
while brealdng laws about “drugs, alcohol
and disorderly behavior’ ’.

Going abroad is usually a
wonderful experience, but for some it
turns into a nightmare. According to
statistics from the Bureau, about 2,500
American citizens are arrested abroad
every year, and half are a result of
narcotic charges. US students have also
been arrested for public intoxication,
underage drinking, and driving under
the inﬂuence of alcohol. In some cases
they have suffered injuries or even
deaths from automobile accidents and
drowning, very often under the
inﬂuence of drugs and alcohol.

According to the Bureau of
Consular Services’ web site, one of the
most common thingsAmerican students

as nameless faces in a sea of 30,000 ‘A

AEsOLDTE’FRATiORDll
__..IIl!IM,F£04__,

 
 

students — we support them because we,
know them, because they are our friends, 3
our fraternity brothers, or our sorority,
sisters. Division-3 athletics beneﬁt from ‘

the atmosphere of a small school, where, Y

0 screaming frat

and UVA, but as

ﬁce our athletic

fail to recognize when going to a foreign
country is that they are subjects to all
its laws, including those about alcohol
and drug policy. No matter how small a
quantity of drugs a person is holding,
he is still violating the law. In 1994, there
was a number of arrests of U.S. citizens
for marijuana possession. Many of
these cases involved possession of an
ounce or less.

Laws on drugs can also be very
strict. A growing number of countries,
including Turkey, Malaysia and Pakistan
punish drug possession with the death
penalty. In such countries as the
Bahamas, the Dominican Republic,
Jamaica, Mexico and the Philippines,
possible penalties can include life in
prison, forced labor or even whip
lasliings. U.S. citizens might consider
this too harsh, but in some countries in
Asia andAﬁica punislnnents involving
forced labor and lasliings are common.

Drugs and alcohol abuse are only
some of the things to be concerned
about when going abroad. There are a
number of things that students are
always advised about when going in a
foreign country. Aperson should have

our close relationships to athletes make the wins and
losses that much more personal.

And naturally, at W&L we’ve managed to adapt
athletics to ﬁt the unique characteristics of life in Big .
Lex. Intramural games add sports competition to,‘
preexisting Greek rivalries, giving us all the opportunity
for positively glorious (and often violent) athletic
combat. Anyone can play intramurals, and it gives
anybody the chance to be an athletic god for an hour. lit

Some of us live for intramurals. We consider all the ’
angles, all the match-ups, all the competition. Some of
us maybe consider these things too much. . .but its these
Jacob Trotters of the world that remind us how big of a
phenomenon that intrarnurals are at W&L.

Sometimes W&L seems too easy to pigeonhole.
Half the country doesn’t even know this school exists;
the other half imagines us as spoiled frat brats or
smarter-than-average Southern kids. But look around, ‘:1
and maybe you’ll see another side. It makes me chuckle
when I even consider the possibility. . . .W&L as a.

university of j ocks.

Study Abroad students warned

his passport with him all the time 01%
he can more easily than he can I
imagine. Foreigners usually attrac -
attention in unfamiliar surroundings
and have higher risks of becomin
victims of pick pocketing, armed
robbery, and even rape or kidnapping '
Walking alone in unfamiliail
neighborhoods or during the night 1 3
hardly advisable. Displaying mone 
or jewelry usually makes foreigner);
an even more attractive target. Stoleri ,
items are almost never found an 
returned. These items can includ V
money, jewelry, and sometimes vi ‘f
documents like passports and visas»:

People going abroad should alsci ‘
be acquainted with health conditions :
in the country. Health insuranceﬁ
covering as much as possible i ‘ 1
recommended, as well as vaccines fol ;
all major diseases . This is often, but ’
not always, required before a person -
is allowed into the country.

Someoftliosethirigsarecornm ‘E
sense. However, facts show when w i
go abroad, we sometimes forget thos
little common sense things we shoul _
think about.

 

 

MONDAY, MARCH 3,2003

‘Ladies:

Ladies, not all of us have personally met Miss Man—
ners, Emily Post or even the Etiquette Grrls; therefore,
'with Fancy Dress quickly approaching, we all have a few
things we need to work on so we don’t embarrass our-
selves or our dates. Follow these simple etiquette rules to
make your Fancy Dress the most enjoyable experience
possible.
V Getting dressed:

-I’m sure all you ladies noticed the “Black Tie”
notation on the lovely James Bond invitations to this
year’s Ball. This designation, ladies, does not excuse
you from proper dress. Emily Post would tell you to

‘lwear “as long and elegant a dress” (yes, dress, la-
dies, NO pants) as possible;

ARTS CY LIFE

;FoIncy Dress guide 2003:

A Follow These simple rules To ensure ihe best FD possible: 

‘ however, this is
as your DRESS
»,length and is

2003, so as long
is of decent
still as elegant

    

as possible, you should be
ﬁne.

-Stockings, however, are a

ust. Just be— cause runway

models and » 'those tarts
over in Holly- KATIE HOWELL wood don’t
wear‘ proper leg 1\[ANNERs MATTER attire under
t h e i r formalwear,

,,doesn’t mean you have to run around like a raga-
muffin.

-Flip-flops are inappropriate, ladies. I know
Reefs would be much more comfortable to dance in
than your 3-inch strappy heels, but this is not a

‘pool party.

_ —As for jewelry, tasteful and elegant are key.
Contrary to popular belief, pearls are NOT to be
worn at night. Diamonds are a much better option,

nd in return, should not be worn before dinner.
(Unless, of course, you are one of the lucky few to
have an engagement ring. In which case, wear it all
the time.)

Eaﬁngdinner

Y -Table manners are key at any formal event.
Simple rules like don’t lean on the table and use
utensils from the outside in, are necessary to fol-
low. Other important dinner table manners apply as

‘well.

-Your new diet is not an appropriate dinner table
conversation. Not only does it make you look shal-
low, but it also could potentially make the other fe-
males at the table self-conscious about their dishes

‘(of choice.

-TURN OFF your cell phone, or better, leave it at
home. No one wants to listen to you gossip while they’re
trying to enjoy their lobster bisque. 4

~ Having meaningful conversation

-We at the Phi realize that you are most certain to

meet people you don’t know well or at all during the

course of your Fancy Dress weekend. From dinner to
cocktail parties to the ball itself, new faces are certain to

1

come your way. Follow these simple rules when meeting
new people:

-When being introduced, make eye contact with the
new person. Do try to avoid staring, though. Blinking is
also key.

-If you are at a loss as to what to talk about, compli-
ments are always the way to go. Everyone likes to hear
something nice about themselves.

—Always avoid talking excessively about yourself
and keep your prejudices to yourself as well. If you
disagree with the other person’s opinion, be tactful in
your disagreement. “It seems to me...” is a much bet-
ter way to state your opinion than “Oh no you
DID’nt.” ’

-Keep your opinions about other people’s physical
appearances to yourself. You never know when you might
be insulting someone’s sorority sister, biological sister or
date.

Gentlemen:

Fancy Dress is coming upon us quickly. It is
time for Washington and Lee gentlemen to shake
the dust from their dinner clothes and refresh their
bow—tie tying talent. Many of us do not have
enough opportunity to practice our best manners,
so this brief checklist will remind you some of the
most important, If you have questions, feel free to
call the etiquette expert at X5183.

Gettingdressed.

- Wear your dinner clothes (tuxedo) only after 6:00 in
the evening. '

- Choose
a cummerbund.
the former,
button undone.
the latter, be
are turned up.

    

either a vest or
If you choose
leave the last
If you choose
sure the pleats

j - Do your best to tie your
own black bow » = tie.

-Neverwear JEB BROOKS a bowtie with a
shirt which has ETIQUI-L'lTEEXPE.R'l' its collar but-
toned down.

- DO NOT, under any circumstances (unless you are
a doctor) carry your cell phone to ANY Fancy Dress event.
Eating dinner.
— Assist the lady to your right when she sits or stands
- When you go to dinner, wait until everyone is served
to begin.
— Do not put salt on your food until you’ve tried it. To
do so is one of the worst insults to your chef.
- If there is something in your teeth, remove it in pri-
vate as soon as possible.
Having meaningful conversation.
- Introduce in this way:
* Gentleman TO lady
* Younger individual TO older person
I - Be introduced in this way:
* Stand up when you are introduced or if a lady

:(

Washington and Lee’s Shepard Program for the Interdisciplinary Study of Poverty and
Human Capability seeks applications for the position is a graduate intern position
under the supervision of the Service Learning Coordinator. This will be a one-year
position with the potential for reappointment for one or two additional years.

Responsibilities include: advising the Nabors Service League, assisting the Dean of
Freshmen with the Project Outreach pre-orientation service trips, serving as the
director of W&L’s Bonner Leaders Program, and assiting with other Shepard Program
events and duties.

Qualified applicants will have a Bachelor’s degree with considerable experience in
community service and leadership; knowledge of Washington and Lee University’s
student groups and administrative structure; proven ability to work with students in
4 organizing cooperative service activities; an appreciation for the ducational and
academic aspects of learning through service; and a knowledge of, or a willingness
to learn, computers and computer programs, including Microsoft Access and Microsoft
FrontPage. All interested candidates should submit a cover letter and resume. All
’* materials should be sent to:

Harlan Beckley, Director
Sheperd Poverty Program

PAGE 5

p..

 

PoLrTE IS RIGHT; EVERYDAY ETIQUETTE FOR EVERYDAY COLLEGE STUDENTS: (Above) Which one of these two charming’

gentlemen do you think tied his own bowtie?

OH, NO YOU DID’NT. (Below) This young lady gapes in horror at an egregious etiquette error.

comes or leaves your-table.

* Shake a hand by squeezing with light and even
pressure. When shaking the hand of a lady or a dignitary
(READ: George Clinton), wait for his or her hand to be
extended.

— Begin a conversation in neutral and with a topic that
is not too controversial (READ: don’t talk about sweat-
shops) I

- Ask questions. Do not ask questions that are too
personal of someone you don’t know well.

— A gentleman does not:

* Brag

* Whine

* Threaten

* Speak without thinking

— End a conversation without offending your part-
ner. Invite them to the bar while you get another (non-
alcoholic) drink or express your desire to speak again
soon. -

- Apologize only when it is truly sincere.

The most important rule.

- The single most important job you have at
Fancy Dress (or any other day of the year) is to
make every effort to ensure that your date has a
marvelous time.

—It is also important to remember that attractiveness
increases as the night goes on.

I’H( )'IT_)S(I()Lll'IFS\' Kmr. H0\\Fll.

 

“Deﬁnitely not Asher Simcoe.”
—Mary Holloway ‘O6

 

“Trey Packard.”
-Drew Heath ‘O5

  

“Baner.”
—Licoln Rose ‘03

 

4 I

D

,. Tancy (Dress

:9...

’(/Visﬁing you an enj0ya6l2ai

 Ca[[ us for your dinner neecfs

    
   

    
    
 

    

APARTMENTS [Ill IIIIIEII:
close to Lexington. Iieautiiul condition.
norolles taoing river. one large l$425Imo.l
two small Is325Imo.l. law or undergrad,
tor nextvear. 540-311-2980.
nowIiliw@meIoenot

 

 

 

” - Washington and Lee University

[A Lexl ngton ’ VA 24450 “Thomas Worthy, shaken not stirred.” “Dwight Bitz.”

‘ ' —Ann Idsal ‘O5 —Isca King
‘I 640 North Lee Highway Tel 540-464-5500

. ' ‘£;amS1.ﬂ3O-‘52.&Q0foryo4w5tudei1!EGmu:' ' ' ' I

. Lexington, VA24450 Fax 540-463-5049 m in“ 3 ham, - 9 53* C_‘l''fe---°r' “Tl: °b°”l ‘J-

‘_  0 e..i‘s“gt‘mr..:.;;;sssgsr..ea’t"§igg.rt.  I “  em“ 9”YC@W “-5 U °'" 5°
1‘ ‘ N111 . i‘wi(irojs'r'ig:  o:a:.~a€Lakr§\~.-. NI?    r:3l?§~3i. Just. ~:.w,r»zm~" 

2 Fr.ms*§naiicirt§.; srirdtrrzs are filing rpiiclrly, rat with the pwxgrmmx that m,a‘§:’t

t 
.      LOOK voun BEST

_ : " . . ” iitirrr 3"Iim'{er! .'i€r;-rm? four !.'..‘r;Ii’.‘e;5§w- 2'‘=''riirrri'ei:i‘.¥.*$r.ii*.»_ja:'.

.   “ ’ c . FOR FANCY DRESS‘
  (It It? $51’ 838-323-3238 I wWw‘mm9a5mndmi5er't°mi Come by and see Skip, Marla, Connie and Wilszn. A

~lj

SKIP THOMPSON’S
BARBER SHOP

22 S. Main Street 9 Lexington, VA
Open Mon., Tues., Thurs., & Fri. 8 a.m. - 5 p.m.
Sat. 8 a.m. - noon; Closed Wed. & Sun.

540-463-5954

 

    

ER1N]LuL's
Sports EDITOR
FrirAr;jLr1LsE@\>iui.EDU

RlN<'}~'E‘l‘§?iil3i~il .

MONDAY, MARCH 3, 2003

BY ERINJULIUS
SPORTS EDITOR

Boxing has returned to W&L’s
campus for the first time since be-
fore WWII. Forest Fletcher, the head
of W&L’s athletic department in the
old days, had boxing removed from
campus, because he felt that any col-
lege sport which had its objective
as the incapacitation of one’s oppo-
nent had no place in intercollegiate
athletics.

In the fall of 2001, Brian
Steams(’02), Joe Morrison(’03), and
Ian Barnbrick(’03) revived the boxing
program with $100 from the EC and a
grand total of six students participat-
ing throughout the fall of 2001 and
winter of 2002.

Drew Heath took over the pro-
gram this winter and it now has 48

people on the email list, 30 who have

participated and about two dozen
regulars. Boxing is considered a “rec-
reation group” by the University,
therefore the group does not travel
to other schools for competitions.

The group meets every Monday
through Thursday from 7—8:30 and
attracts a wide range of participants—-
people from the freshman class to law
school, male and female. This year’s
practices started the week before
Thanksgiving break.

“Boxing is a lot of fun, and it is
deﬁnitely not just for guys. There
are a couple girls who practice a lot,
and we hold our own,” said freshman
Debra Kubras, who attends the box-
ing work—outs every Monday
through Thursday.

“The atmosphere is very relaxed,
everyone works hard but the atti-
tudes stay light. People come and go
as they can, and we average about
10-12 people a night,” said Heath,
“Every other week or so Security Of-
ficer (Daniel) Rexrode joins us for a
night devoted to learning the more
advanced techniques to boxing. Mr.
Rexrode was a boxer in the Air Force
and went 20-0, to say he is qualified
and knowledgeable is quite an under-
statement, theman is sick.”

Though it may not be an ofﬁcial
club sport, the boxers are dedicated
to their sport. “We teach everyone

Boxing re urns o W&L

the basics, and later the advanced
techniques, of real boxing. This isn’t
cardio boxing sissy crap. Having
come out to several workouts one will
have learned both how to defend one-
self and how to dish out some pun-
ishment. The workouts are 90min of
extremely intense aerobics. We use a
station system that includes speed
bags, heavy bags, jump ropes,
shadow boxing, body pad work, and
focus mitts,” said Heath.

Many of those who participate
in the boxing work—outs use it as train-
ing for other sports.

Kubras will be joining the track
team this spring and says boxing,
“has helped me retain cardiovascular
ﬁtness by jumping rope.”

Junior Mattew Laﬂtas also uses
boxing to train for another sport, “I
play rugby and it keeps me in shape,
gets me in shape on my off days away
from rugby.

Freshman Emilee Hopkins, a
member of the Equestrian team said,
“I participate in the boxing practices
because they are a different way to
get a workout. Sometimes doing the
ellipticals and lifting weights all the
time gets boring, and boxing is a fun
substitute. . .

I’m not sure boxing helped me
condition that much for the sport, but
it was a good way to get a full body
workout and this certainly made me
feel better when riding. Building
muscle and endurance is always a
positive.”

The group hopes to one day be
granted ofﬁcial status by the Univer-
sity, “I’d really like to see the boxing
“organization” become a “club” in
which we travel to other schools and
compete. That way we could get
more money and have top of the line
equipment, guess instructors, etc,”
said sophomore Stephen Welker.

The group received $500 from
the EC this winter in order to purchase
new equipment. “The crap we
dusted off and oiled up last year was
installed sometime in the 20s and 30s,
pretty neat,” said Heath.

As Heath is the leader of the
group and only a sophomore, they
hope to be here on campus “for years
to come,” he said.

Office of National Drug Control Policy

But it wasn't a bar for long. The local Police Department shut down Swifty’s
Lounge For illegal drug activity. instead of condemning the property, they
contacted their local community coalition. The coalition brought in contractors
who donated their time to renovate the_ building. And the doctor got his hospital
to volunteer services for families that need drug counseling.

it's funny what happens when we all work together. Communities become a better
place for everyone, especially our children. Community coalitions bring
other community groups together. And getting involved is easy. just contact
www.helpyourcommunity.org or 1-877-KIDS-313. They'll tell you how your group
can help. You'll be surprised how much you can accomplish.

‘log get More W]-[EN gou get t03el',ﬂe[‘_

PORTS 3

PAGE 6

BIG WIN

LAX WINS. Washington and Lee’s men’s lacrosse team, ranked sixth ,
broke a 4-4 tie with two goals in the ﬁnal 7:41 of their game against
\Washington College on Sunday afternoon. Matt Fink (’04),]ack Murray

(’04),_lack r\Iurrary (’05), Mike McNamara (’04) and Sam Lane (’06) all 7
scored. The Generals’ next match will be Saturday at home against

Gettysburg College.

B Aiutrr D.-ms iRrrzg—lum P/yr

omen swimmers win ODACS

BY ALLISON PERRY
SPORTS WRITER

The Washington and Lee
women’s swim team ended its sea-
son last week while capturing the
ODAC championship. The men’s
team also finished its year with a
second place finish at the Southern
States Championships.

The women competed at a
three-day long event at Radford
University. This is the team’s tenth
consecutive ODAC championship.
They finished the season with a 9-4
overall record and a 3-1 ODAC
record.

On the first day of competition,
the Generals earned a 14 point lead
over Randolph-Macon. Randolph
Macon is the only ODAC team to
have beaten the Generals this year.
Senior captains Blair Huffman and

Wea her

BY JOHN HYLAND
SPORTS WRITER

Washington and Lee has endured
some harsh weather this winter that
has affected all of us to some degree.
Our spring sports teams have been
especially inconvenienced, particularly
the baseball team, which has already
postponed four games, three against
Muhlenberg that were scheduled for
February 22 and 23 and a third last
Wednesday against Southern Virginia.

A double header against Emory
and Henry was moved from this past
Saturday to Sunday in the hopes that
the extra day of decent weather would
make ﬁeld conditions suitable for play-
ing.

The inclement weather and
snow-covered, drenched ﬁelds have
not only affected games but also prac-

Kelli Austin led W&L with a 2”“
place finish in the 200 yard IM and
a 3'“ place finish inithe 500 yard
freestyle, respectively.

On day two of the meet, fresh-
man Beth Sauer finished 15‘ in the
100 yard breast stroke with a time
of 1: 13.63. Austin had a personal-
best in the 200 yard freestyle at
1259.49. The Generals increased
their lead to 130 points- over
Randolph Macon.

W&L then cruise'd to a 178
point lead on the final day of com-
petition to post a score of 619 and
win the meet. Huffman led the Gen-
erals by winning the 200 yard but-
terﬂy in 2:15.22 and capturing the
team’s second individual title.

Junior Jackie Green placed
fourth in both the 100 yard ﬂy and
the 200 yard ﬂy, ﬁnishing in 1:04.91
and 227.34, respectively.

affec s baseballs

tices as the team has been forced to
use the turf or indoor facilities. Sopho-
more outﬁelder Warren Hunter con-
tends, “It’s been difﬁcult to stay fo-
cused in the pavilion and batting
cages everyday and it is getting mo-
notonous.”

Luckily for the Generals, the ma-
jority of their opponents have been
subject to the same playing condi-
tions. .

The Generals have a tremendous
amount of experience, particularly on
the mound.

Their three main starters are all
juniors and include 1eft—hander and
All-ODAC performer Peter Dean and
right-handers Dan Kagey and Mike
Wert. All three were in the regular ro-
tation last season. In the field, the
Generals are also experienced and are
led by three seniors and tri—captains,

This bracatot was a air: Arnbnr Apodaca

wrmn an underage drunk driver took hm lilo.

Vang!-x

.‘?..___.-...,....

_r-culvnd nom ma canlor wrmm she hotpucl men. Wm.
drug and alcohol problems. She was wonvhng n

Frlondu Don't Lo: rrlonda Drlvo Drunk.

 

“The strength of our team is
that we are a team,” Green said. “It
was our depth. Our competition

this year was Randolph Macon, and

they don’t have depth.”

N 0 one from the meet qualified
for nationals this year. The Gener-
als are also losing 5 seniors.

“They were a great asset to the
team,” Green said.

The men’s swim team also com-
peted in a three-day long competi-
tion last week in the Southern States
Championships at Radford Univer-
sity. The Generals finished second
of five teams and behind the Col-
lege of Charleston with 585 .5
points. W&L competed against
several Division I teams.

Junior Eric Ritter finished first
in the 100 yard backstroke in 51.42
and first in the 200 yard back with a
time of 1:53.63. Sophomore Chris

including shortstop Michael Hanson,
centerfielder Bobby Littlehale and first
baseman Brian Gladsyz. Hanson is a
three-time All-ODAC selection, hit .356
last season and is W&L’s career leader
in runs scored. Littlehale hit .294 a
season ago, while leading the team in
RBIs. Gladsyz is coming off a season
in which he batted a whopping .360.
A fourth returning starter is jun-
ior catcher Brian Mulhern. In addition,
Hanson, Gladsyz and Mulhem are all
capable of relief pitching. In all, seven
of the nine positions will be ﬁelded
by returning starters, although some
starters will be at different positions
and many players will be moving po-
sitions as the Generals are extremely
versatile. Mulhem will see time in right
ﬁeld, Littlehale at catcher and Kagey
in left ﬁeld. Junior Austin Allain will
play both second and third base.

Teach carefully.

Call 8'77-"ACT--VVISE or VlSl "

1

Colby touched first in the 200 ﬂy.
Freshman Clark Barrineau placed 15‘ 7‘
in the 1650 freestyle.

All-Southern States awards
were given to Barrineau, Colby,
Ritter, seniors Zach Fake and
Patrick Frankfort, and junior
Jonathan James.

The Generals ended their sea-
son with a 5-6 overall record. They
also lose three seniors this year. ‘A

Ritter is the only team member
who will be going on to the NCAA
Division III Championships. He
was named All-American in the 100
backstroke at the championships
last year.

“I’m hoping this year to get All-
American again and maybe improve
my finishing place,” Ritter said. ,1

The NCAA Division III Cham-
pionships will take place March 20“‘
through March 22"“.

season’

The teamhas a number ofreturning?

-letter winners and freshman that are all

capable of contributing in some capacity.

The experience and versatility
helped the Generals get the season
off to a good start during their Febru-
ary Break trip to Atlanta, ﬁnishing 2-
1, despite the severe weather at home.
The team picked up two wins against
Oglethorpe 13- land 3-2, their lone ‘pi.
loss came in a 9-3 decision against
Emory.

Hunter added, “We were really
excited about coming back after that
trip and were looking forward to tak- 1
ing the momentum we had gained into
the Muhlenberg games.”

As we approach the spring, hope-I
fully the Generals will no longer have‘
to contend with Mother Nature and
focus on their primary goal of win-
ning an ODAC championship.

 

 

-l

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

NG-TUM

The ihrrierri eerie  Washington and Lee Urriherrih time 7897 (D Orr/irre his ti/er'.re//rr.erI’ir

I ‘Alumnus ives president VIP lounge

Y Payne space will stay with administration; English epartment may get Washington rooms; Room named for fomrer Trustee

BY MATTHEW MCDERMOTT
CONTRIBUTING EDITOR

University President Tom Buiish
Y may no longer have to bring VIP’s
back to Lee House for entertaining,
once the Mason New Room replaces
the current Dean of Students Ofﬁce.
The Dean of Students Office
moves to the University Commons
this summer.
Friends and family of the late
Mason New ’62 gave approximately

1 $500,000 for a “place where the presi-

dent would have presidential facilities
for entertaining,” said Provost Larry
Boetsch.

The room will likely have a large
table in its center, with arm chairs ar-
ranged téte—a-téte around its periph-
ery, according to a preliminary sketch,
prepared by Charlottesville architect
Madison Spencer ‘76.

‘ The renovation will also hope-
fully restore the currently-plastered-
over fireplace, Farrar said.

“The idea is that the president of
Washington and Lee should have not
excessive but gracious appointments:
a special place to bring guests,” Farrar
said.

In late March, Farrar and Univer-
sity Architect Torn Contos will discuss

Watt New and sister—in—law Annette
White, wife of John White ’62 and
‘7lL.

A separate plan, not supported by
the New fund, envisions a courtyard
with trees and a fountain in the nook
between Payne and Washington Halls.

The Payne Hall room, near the
university’s center, will allow occu-
pants to observe student traffic and
to easily reach any part of the campus.
The President and the English depart-
ment:

With campus real estate so tight,
the President’s Ofﬁce has not been the
only one eyeing the newly-available
space.

The English department, which
occupies the area atop and aside of
the Dean of Students Office, also had
designs.

“We have inadequate office
space for the four adjunct faculty,”
said Jim Warren, English department
head. Faculty had hoped to use the
new room to remedy the situation.

It also had plans for a seminar
room and a “hybrid” writing lab/semi-

NEW IN ‘61
New was a Sigma

and a member of

nar room——literal plans, sketched by Kappa Alpha as a
Contos‘ _ student at
We thought we were (getting Washington and
the space),” Warren said. “We un— Lee in the early
sixties.

sEE PLAYROOM, PAGE 2

PEI  

 

, VOLUME CV, N,O,XXIl
MONDAY, ll/IIRCII 10,2003

Mason New gives four decades to W&L

BY MATTHEW MCDERMOTT
CONTRIBUTING EDITOR

Though Mason New ’62 died before finishing his
first year on the Board of Trustees, he nonetheless left a
long record of service to his alma mater.

“He was a very dedicated alumnus who gave of his
time in many ways to Washington and Lee,” said Peter
Cronin, director of University Development.

“He was a remarkable guy, a truly dedicated supporter
of W&L,” agreed University Secretary Jim Farrar ’74.

New began his efforts as a caller in the annual alumni
Phonathon. He later became the president of the Alumni
Association and member of the Alumni Board of Direc-
tors.

sEE NEW, PAGE 2

the plans with New’s widow Mary

‘W&L may sell
Troubadour

V‘ BY KYLE WASS
'sENIOR STAFF WRITER

DIII>ERs?

 

When the University Commons opens in the fall of
2003, the Washington and Lee community can say good-
bye to the Troubadour Cinema. '

The Washington and Lee Film society cunently uses the
TroubadourCinema, aquainttheat1elocatedinRedSquareacross
ﬁomPi KappaAlpha and nexttosigma Nu,topresent“a series of

pr critically acclaimed US and foreign ﬁlms throughout the under-
graduate school year,” according to their description. Since Sep-
tember, the Fihn Society has shown ﬁlms such as Punch Drunk
Love, Monster ’s Ball, and About a Boy, among others. There are
regular showings Fridayandsaturday nights at7:30, with adiifer-
T erit movie showing each weekend

However, the University Commons — scheduled to open
next fall - will negate the Uriiversity’s need for the Troubadour
Cinema. Torn Contos, the University architect and facilities plan-
,‘ ner,said,“basically,whatIknowisﬂiatthecinerna[willniove]into
a better, larger auditorium in the Commons,” meaning that the
Troubadour will no longer be used by the Washington and Lee
community. Wher1tlieComrnonsareready,“llieFilmSocietywill
be presenting its program in the new location next year,” accord-
‘ -ing to Senior Reference Librarian Dick Grefe, who is also the fac-
ulty advisor for the Film Society. While students feel an attach-
ment to the Troubadour Cinema, there is also the “occasional
rumor about the disposition of the Troubadour,” according to
Y Grefe,andFilmSocietyMemberMeredithHibbarrL Shealsonoted
thattheieareanumberofnioviesthatcannotbeplayedatthe
Troubadour due to a lack of technology. The new cinema in the
Coirirnonswil1beequippedtoplayallrecerItldridsofﬁlm,andtlius

the Film Society will be able to otfer a lager selection of movies.
' The fate of the Troubadour Cinema itselfremains rmclear.
Contos said that the University “will explore options with potential
off-campus users [of the cinema] once the Commons is complete.”

 

 

K\TlE l‘l0\W.Ll. / The Ring-tum Phi

this band and a Motown band in the Small Gym. Faculty, staff and students all attended
the 96th annual event. For more Fancy Dress pictures, see page 5. i '

ALWAYS SHAKIN’. Members of George Clinton’s band, The P.Funk All-Stars performed to
a packed audience Friday night in the Big Gym. Fancy Dress goers made their way between

SPEAKERS CAIDRE

Hughes, EC plan next year

' but avoid them like the plague. Watch

BY JEB BROOKS
PHOTO EDITOR

There is a plethora of vehicles among Wash-
ington and Lee University students. In fact, nearly
75% of students have a car, truck or a sport utility
vehicle on campus. A not—so—diﬂicult to avoid
roadblock in operating a motor-vehicle in Lexing-
ton is the omnipresent parking ticket. As Thomas
Jefferson once said, “Ignorance of the law is no
excuse.” The Ring-tum Phi hopes to dispel what
little ignorance there is on our most ﬁne of carn-
puses with this list of “ticketable” of-
fenses.

Parked in a restricted zone ——

’Parking tickets abound

vehicle is to be no more than six inches from the
curb. This ticket will not be a problem as long as
you are not parked in the street.

No parking — ﬁre hydrant — $25 .00. What
if there’s a fire?

Obstructing traﬂic — $25.00. Ifyour vehicle
is in some way blocking the free ﬂow of other cars,
this is the ticket you will receive. The citation is
distributed for such violations as double parking.

Expired license plates — $15.00. It does not
matter where your car is registered, if the plate is
expired, this is the ticket you will receive.

Expired / No inspection —
$10.00. This ticket is only for Virgin-
ians.

$15.00. This ticket may be distributed
to any vehicle not in an authorized
parking spot. Authorized parking
spots include, any curb not painted
yellow, any white box painted on the
street and any spot in a parking lot
not marked “reserved”

No parking — loading zone -
$l5.00. There are not many of these,

 

Expired/N0 city decal—$15.00.
This ticket is only for Lexingtonians.

Handicapped zone parking —
$100.00. Unless you have the neces-
sary paperwork, do not park in a handi-
capped space.

Sdayparking-$15.00. Itisnotper-
mitted for any individual to leave his or her
car parked in any city parking place (street

for signs that say “loading zone.”

Improper parking — $15 .00. According to
the Lexington Police Department this is the, “catch
all.” Ifthere is a sign that says not to do something
and you opt to do it, you will received this ticket.

Toodosetoanintersection———$15.00.Thisisa
problem only when there are no yellow curbs. Use
common sense; a driver should be able to see around

your vehicle to avoid acollision with oncoming tiaﬂic. -

Parkedfacingthewrongdirection——$l5.00.
Just remember to park with the ﬂow of traffic.
Blocking a driveway — $15.00. This one

needs no explanation.

Blocking the sidewalk — $15.00. A car
belongs on the street, not the sidewalk.
Parked too far from curb — $15.00. Your

SAMPLE TICKET

or lot) for more than ﬁve days.

Overtime parking — 10 minutes
— $15.00. This and the next ticket are the favorite
of students whose professors ramble. Do not
remain in a parking space for more than ten min-
utes, two hours or twelve hours (depending on
the space).

Overtime parking — 1 hour —‘ $15.00. If
one ticket isn’t enough, you will receive another.

There are even more citations you can re-
ceive while driving, but think when you park and
fewer students will receive parking tickets. The
police are not out to get students. The three
wheeled buggy-tliing targets Lexington residents,
students and professors alike. The driver does
not discriminate. The Ring-tum Phi wishes you
the best of luck in your parking pleasure.

I The R/rig-trrr/I Phi

_]F.B R(J0l\'S/ /Je Rirrg-//rm P
ENGLISH AND EATING. (Top) Iowa State Univ
professor Paul Griffiths deliveredanaddress titled,
"Moll Cut—Purse, Cross-Dressing, and the
Genderirig of Crime in Early Seventeenth
Century London." On Monday, March 10 Univ
of Hawaii professor Valerie \X/ayne will deliver a
talk called, "Shakespeare's Cyrnbeline, Colonialism
and the Ancient Britons." (Bottom) Caroline
Miller spoke on eating disorders as a part of
National Eating Disorders Awareness Week.

BY CALEY ANDERSON
ASSISTANT NEWS EDITOR

Last week, students from both the law
and undergraduate campus voted on can-
didates for the offices of Executive Com-
mittee president, vice president and secre-
tary, as well as the offices of Student Judi-
cial Council chair and secretary.

The most talked-about election on cam-
pus was the vice presidential race featuring
Kevin White, current EC second-year lawEC
representative, and sophomore Phil
Walotsky. Walotsky promised radical reforms

to EC processes and the honor system,
whereas White subscribed to a more conser-
vative course. Both candidates conducted
an extensive campaign, appearing personally
near the polls on several occasions.

“‘I thought we were both pretty active
about it,” said White.

In the end, White was the one who
managed to win the office of vice president
by a margin of approximately 400 votes.

The closest race was that between Liz
Clarke and Cameron Lord for the office of

SEE EC, PAGE 2

Sexuality panel proves beneﬁcial

BY MEGAN MORGAN
SENIOR sT.III= WRITER

On Tuesday, March 2, the Washing-
ton & Lee Gay/Straight Alliance sponsored
a Sexuality Scholarship Panel, an event in
which professors spoke on various facets
of sexuality in our literature and culture.
The panel, which was rescheduled from
Feb. 27, was moderated by Professor Eric
Wilson of the English department and had
three guest speakers. These speakers in-
cluded Professor Theresa Braunschneider
of the English department, Professor Brian
Malone of the psychology department and
Professor Troy Prinkey of the Spanish de-
partment. Each speaker gave a 20 rriinute
lecture and then the ﬂoor was opened to
questions from the audience. Professor
Braunschneider spoke first, lecturing on
“Eighteenth Century Representation of
Gender and Sexuality” and particularly fo-
cusing on literature that dealt with women
that dressed as men. Then Professor Brian

Malone spoke on “The Effects of Anti-Gay
Hate Crimes on the Gay Community;” and
the seminar finished with Prof. Troy
Prinkey’s lecture on “Sexuality in Latin
American Literature.”

The event boasted a fairly large audi-
ence which included more than 40 stu-
dents, faculty members, law students and
VMI cadets, drawn out for a variety of
reasons. When one member of the audi-
ence was asked why he attended, fresh-
man Drew Davenport stated “I’m a mem-
ber of the Gay/Straight Alliance, so I tend
to go to all the events, and I have Profes-
sor Braunschneider. When I saw the no-
tices for it, what she was presenting and
what the other two professors were pre-
senting, it sounded interesting and I de-
cided to go.” Davenport, said it is also im-
portant to support the Gay/Straight Alli-
ance because “I’m very much in favor of
building an atmosphere of tolerance of ho-
mosexuality on campus, and I feel that
they are doing a good job of this.”

 

  

JAMES G. Ltsvnmw z..ia.a.»'r»*.:~’lr‘~.»’
wAsH«<r<aim<-4  arm: mr
r_..-i:.-..:=:=.‘r..".r~s.  we-31>

PAGE 2

MAR l 2 2003

Boetsch devotes life to W&L

BY IMRAN NAEEMULLAH
CONTRIBUTING EDITOR

Those who have spent any significant period of time
at Washington and Leehave known Larry Boetsch in a
number of ways: as professor, as dean, and now as Pro-
vost. A 1969 graduate of W&L, Boetsch has devoted much
of his life to serving the University. 1

His involvement began in high school, when his AP
U.S. History teacher encouraged him to look at small lib-
eral arts colleges, and W&L ‘was one of the colleges he
recommended. Boetsch also had the opportunity of meet-
ing Joe Lyles of the Physical Education department when
Lyles visited Boetsch’s high school on a recruiting trip,
thus obtaining a more ﬁrst-hand perspective. Boetsch re-
calls that when he ﬁrst saw the school, he was captivated,
and knew that it was where he wanted to go.

Boetsch’s story is unique, however, in that neither of his
parents had attended college, and so even attending a state
university in Pennsylvania, where he grew up, would have
been a big step. He recalls thinking of Virginia as “so exotic
and faraway,” and Washington and Lee was like a dream
come true. He remembers his time at W&L as one of transi-
tion. He and his fellow ﬁeshmen were the ﬁrst class not forced
to wear the freshman beanie, a cap designating their ﬁrst-
year status, and other traditions like conventional dress also
went by the wayside during his undergraduate years. Boetsch
recalls that while such changes may not seem so noteworthy
now, at the time, they were hugely signiﬁcant.

Indeed, Boetsch remembers that those years of the
l960’s and early 1970’s were ones of profound cultural
change at W&L. He says that while student radicalism
was never as extreme asat other schools, W&L being
W&L, a certain attitude of deﬁance and clamoring for
change was in the air. Despite the changes, he says, hav-
ing observed the University continue to evolve over the
years, it remains essentially the same. The same basic
values of honor and civility still prevail, and the academ-
ics are still top—notch and teaching remains the highest
priority. He jokes that one of the biggest changes for him
is looking at the back of the campus, where new buildings
abound, like the University Commons, the Library, and
the renovated Science Center.

Boetsch’s current job, Provost, is a new position cre-
ated this year by President Burish—somethir1g he imported
with him from Vanderbilt—and it means that he is the Chief
Academic Ofﬁcer. He works with practically everyone on
campus, from students to faculty to University Comput-
ing. He says that it would be fair to characterize himself as
Burish’s “right-hand man,” implementing his agenda on a
day-to-day basis while Burish steers the helm. One of the
aspects of his job that he loves the most is the interaction
with students and faculty, and indeed, he even has the
opportunity to teach courses. For example, during Fall
Term, he taught an upper-level Spanish course on the
poet Antonio Machado. Of teaching, Boetsch says that it
is his true passion, and he is glad to have the opportunity
to partake in it even while serving as an administrator.

Boetsch’s vision for W&L is for it to continue along
its trajectory, retaining its core values of civility, integrity,
and learning, while also evolving to keep its mission rel-
evant. He identiﬁes two areas as being central to ensuring
this, one being the integration of what happens inside the
classroom and life outside of it, and the aforementioned
diversiﬁcation of the community. He stresses that the lat-
ter has really been a part of the University’s culture all
along, pointing out that right aﬁer the Civil War ended
and General Lee was named President, Lee went to the
North to recruit students, a move perhaps far more con-

troversial than any being made today. However, he is ada- A

mant that any such change in the student body must not
be one enforced by quotas, and that students who come
to Washington and Lee must want to attend because of
what it is, not in spite of what it is.

When he is not at work, Boetsch enjoys spending
time with his wife, Elizabeth, whom he met when he was a
student at W&L, and she was at Mary Baldwin. They live
in Lexington and raised two grown children, Lauren, a
student at Kenyon College, and Alden, who works in
Washington, D.C. Of his future plans, Boetsch remarks
that his goal is always to serve the University in a capac-
ity that best matches his talents and experience. Judging
by the breadth of his experiences thus far, this could per-
haps mean that the freshmen of the Class of 2010 will take
Spanish 161 with a Professor Boetsch, or perhaps Boetsch
will join the numerous other members of the Class of 1969
on the Board of Trustees. Or, just maybe, he’ll do both.

PLAYROOM, FROM PAGE 1

derstood it that way. We even had
drawings made.”

Complicating the matter was
that the Dean of Students Ofﬁce had
taken its current ofﬁce space from the
English department’s in the ‘70’s,
Warren said.

“Some of the older generation
said, ‘This was our building and they
took it from us,”’ Warren said.

Alter a recent meeting, however,
Burish and Dean of the College Tom
Williams told the department it would
not regain the area.

“There was some dismay among
the faculty, but not on my part,” War-
ren said. “It will be ﬁne if we get that
rectangle of space, along with adequate
offices for our four adjunct faculty.”

“The English department has a
well-demonstrated need for space in the
best conditions we can ﬁnd,” agreed
Williams, who suggested that room
could open up in Washington Hall.

Warren insisted that his depart-
ment and the administration remain on
cordial terms.

A small college’s rumor mill is to
blame for the gossip otherwise, he said.

“Colleagues in other departments,
by spreading rumors about things they

don’t know about, and that’s none of
their business, help make for misun-
derstanding,” Warren said.

The Donor: .

The Mason New Room is named
for the former Board of Trustee mem-

‘ ber who felt that the university presi-

dent needed more visibility.

New had talked to past presi-
dents Jack Wilson and John Elrod
about the issue, Farrar said.

After his death in 1996, Mary New
and White collaborated on a project to
memorialize him. They eventually
raised nearly half a million dollars.

“Elrod and (former Presidential
Assistant) Farris Hotchkiss were work-
ing on that immediately prior to
Elrod’s death,” Farrar said.

Dining the search for the new presi-
dent, the project was held in abeyance.

Following his assumption of au-
thority, Burish was immediately in-
formed of the plans

“After (Burish and I) began to
discuss to where (the room) should
go, he came up with the idea of put-
ting it where the Dean of Students Of-
ﬁce is,” Boetsch said. '

TheroomcouldbeopenbynextFall.

“The renovation will be triggered
by the completion of the University
Commons,” Farrar said.

NEW, FROM PAGE 1

Among other responsibilities, “(N ew) was
basically responsible for helping to raise over
$4 million each year,” Farrar said.

In May 1995, New was elected to the
Board of Trustees. He took the oath ﬁve
months later, and sat on the Board’s Develop-
ment and Budget and Audit Committees.

“His election capped off a lifetime of ser-
vice to the university,” Farrar said.

New died of cancer on Sept. 27, 1996, leav-
ing behind wife Mary Watt New and three chil-

dren, Mary Taylor ’98, John Mason ’96, and
Kreg Kurtz ’86.

“He was a wonderful W&L gentleman
who died far too young,” Cronin said.

New, former CEO of Branch, Cabell, and
Company, was heavily involved in national ﬁ-
nance. A member of the Board of Governors
of the National Association of Securities Deal-
ers, he also served on NASDAQ’s Qualiﬁca-
tions Committee and as treasurer of the Vir-
ginia Securities Industry Association.

New also sat on the Board of Governors
of St. Catherine’s and Christchurch Schools.

EC, FROM PAGE 1

SJC Secretary. The two ﬁnished close enough
to have a runoff, which was held last Wednes-
day, March 5. The final outcome gave the vic-
tory to Lord by a mere two votes, one of the
slimmest margins of any election in W&L his-
tory.

The other victors this year were Helen
Hughes, who ran unopposed for the ofﬁce of
EC President, Anne Johansen, who won the
ofﬁce of EC Secretary, and Mike Baker will be
the new SJ C Chair.

_President-elect Hughes says she’ll be
keeping to the course followed by outgoing
President Gerald Titus. “I plan to finish up the
impressive things [Titus] has started, such as
making the committee more focused on stu-
dent government issues in addition to honor
matters,” said Hughes.

I willibe working closely with the admin-
istration in restructuring the freshmen and new
faculty orientation programs. I want to stress
the privileges of our Honor System and instill
a sense of pride in all W&L students,” she
added.

As vice president, Kevin White’s primary
focus will be budgetary issues. “My ﬁrst prior-
ity is to continue the work of the EC in improving
our budget policies and procedures. We need
to ensure that every organization that requests
funding ﬁom the EC is giving an honest assess-
ment of the ﬁmding thatthey need,” he said. He
went on to note that another of his goals would
be keeping closer watch over howorganizations
spent their EC funds. He also thanked his oppo-
nent, Phil Walotsky, for a “a very interesting and
issue-oriented election.”

The newly elected ofﬁcers will take their
positions in Spring term.

MONDAY, MARCH 10, 2003

‘ail news briefs to

 

Nick Teare will speak

Nick Teare, an advertising executive who has handled
accounts for the National Football Leagie and Coca—Cola,
will discuss the role of advertising in today’s society at
Washington and Lee University on Thursday, March 13,
at 7:30 pm. in Northen Auditorium.

National theatre symposium approaches

Washington and Lee University will host the Sixth
National Symposium on Theater in Academe from March
13-15.

The Symposium will feature performances from the
College of William and Mary, the University of Massa-
chusetts at Dartmouth and the University of Minnesota
at Twin Cities, as well as several performances by W&L
students. The University of Tunis at Manouba will add an
international ﬂavor to the symposium with the university’s
Moncef Khemiri’s performance of “Theater of the
Maghreb, the Poetics of Gestures.”

Law alumnus to become
president of Nation ’s top legal group

, Robert J .Grey Jr., a 1976 alumnus of Washington and
Lee University’s School of Law and a highly regarded
Richmond attorney, has been nominated without opposi-
tion to become president-elect of the American Bar Asso-
ciation, the largest voluntary professional group in the
world representing practicing and academic attorneys na-
tionwide.

Following ‘an oﬁicial vote on his nomination in Au-
gust by the ABA’s House of Delegates, Grey will immedi-
ately assume his one-year position as president-elect. In
mid-2004, Grey will proceed to the presidency of the
410,000-member group, ABA officials said.

Law school will host Medicare symposium

The Great Society vision that birthed Medicare has
dimmed. The free market approach that inspired Medicare
Choice has lost luster. As Congress prepares to take up
President Bush’s Medicare proposals, what is ahead for
Medicare?

The nation’s top experts in Medicare politics, policy,
law and economics are gathering at Washington and Lee
University’s School of Law on March 24 to examine the
issues faced by the country’s largest health care program,
which covers 40 million aging» and disabled Americans.

GalaeventwillrevealunsungGeneralollheyear

The Celebrating Student Success Initiative sponsored by
the Dean of Students oﬂice is holding a gala event on March 27 at
7:00 pm in Lee Chapel to honor the “un-sung heroes” ofWash-
ington and Lee. During the months of October, November, Janu-
ary and Febniary, the Initiative recognized students who bring
both depth and breadth to Washington and  One of these
students will receive the award All are invited to the gala event.

 

Vtsrr Us D'I.§RlN~t.3
l’Rt}:V'iE.t?€? WEEs:ENu
Area SF..P; 

 r Urxrnrraasnr
Is Otstléi OF The.
F.A.‘?i*tEZS7T--GR{)X5?'I‘P2{§
Gaarirrrrrrz Stzrioots
IN “tit-IE Wurrtrr.

 



P A $'E3-5 R.£3:r;§;.5:a_'raA:rrr;;r2~r P.At;:mr_;r::; rfP1.é:rr
I-=i:~:s.sr:;r:~.r) Irer:::1.i,:r:tr>:s A Lrr;;-trr R3-.33.
(M "I‘r»a1..é t2§;t’}.~t‘r‘ ‘hlrrzrlrr; 'L.lT‘mr.1;‘:i-ta l‘ei1»r..r..r..s
(be E?'ir1rr..~w, Btu tszrsrsr (.};N S..arruar:m:*
Arts) L(7}lT)(§iI§}xE€§ ‘l"*V:r’rr Trirsrcsrm-* A?-t1”;t
Farrrxsf l"~§.tv;f-.:t~r.*r*.:‘f~:s Cm {:.AAai=u:s A’-Yr

Tam Ftrczremrams law.

- A $59 P.rr:r:_.Ae‘::;r: 12er::rr:a::s>::%: (.:tf’j1-2.4-«E'I??".t:j%:3I.'lE't*~}at"‘,?tIi+;
Area l.\rIrr...:~r..1..:“a. Wrirzr 7if~’.tt::rjI,r:r1::»<:f.rarr:;=.

TRANSPQRTATIQTN:

Tim £i2»rir*r:»:§tsrrf'r"°:s f;i)E..??~i"E)l'iR$ .I:x:'z-a

 

I\/[ARCH 1 3-1 5, 2003

   

]l..f?:~E.I(.3RS 8:: 5.133%
‘P'r'.r«::;:s~.=

  

+-Ate ’l..=“{t‘Et;T)l’?-3
+j<'a.3:Im.=ir..rs.si

.Lr;.>£::.>:r.15'}:<:r) (M {:..~m:rix.;%s \X}’1:r.r... (f§'r...=r.1‘:«r;r

I’mJv1r?:r?; .B;r)tzNn “liar? Srrr.2rr.:..r3; .’$ts:r.nrrr:::r:

Ftfrﬂ ‘r"?r.:ru Flttiilltrii It-ilrgi.-riF:r‘::rr..r»:. ‘Z.r~a'rt:zirr»:.i°rir::»>A:.Ar.

A1 rmrur, rm, Ttttéi, .l‘\l—(j3|Ri»=t.3t..1_~§. (31z..ri~:rrrfr—«-1t..’:r1.sr~:3.r

Bus TE%Rl&ithE:t[..

 

 OF  & 

MEET  S’i'UDEN'I‘S,. FACULTY Ann  F srons STAFF
AND Tour. Tim  MEDIA AND PERFORMING ARTS CENIEE
  

EK  ¥.1:‘-31..T‘._!.£.
C}a.mL::.«r;’r1-ii Dr-rzrsm-.

’{LZr'?r’A§:~..i:‘r.:‘§o'1rj::A*r'rr:r«.*xz' Arrriiz
-ofrv::r_..r:.*rr:<;rr:r‘z-s'
-+Frr..r».i

—+Cr:ar2»r.t;:;~r1t':..A.rrcites: Sr-'L:r:»1

Carts  Form
Or MEDIA EDocArroN Its A”
Cmusmu Ervmouuarr.

  
{N ”l.”’§~‘l.l{~Z

 
 

    

 

 

31$} Kt”f3E~z‘=‘A=’§ ¥}T!:*ail‘rlEI€i.7>fl‘Y‘  ¥’l?§§%é%A W.;*£T!*i. "I3.-’i.s 

'757.225.rtﬂl?8 ' Fm; ?".5?.226.tl(}39

Em-ail: prev*iew@*

regent.-euziu.

rarrvre::regerrt.erirripreview

.-..-.—..»»\. ..._,_.'c

 

Y .

  

~ Bran T. KIRWAN

OPINIONS EDHOR
§ FJuAr1;uRwANB@wiun1r
 MONDAY, MARCH 10, 2003

Si§hBi3liii}liJDlTORIAL

Frats, pledges: step up the creativity

Washington and Lee has long been re-
nowned for its notorious Greek system.
W&L’s fraternity pranks have long rivaled
those of larger chapters. Impressive percent-
ages of both men and women claim part of

- this infamous system. These facts are why
we at The Phi are highly discouraged by this
year’s lack of creativity in fraternity
pledgeship. Where are the days gone by of
crazy pledge pranks? (Read: Kidnapping Phi
Opinions editors is not “crazy” or “fun.”) We
realize that the University and state have
cracked down on hazing, but this should not,
however, ruin the “fun” of fraternity
pledgeship for the entire University commu-
nity. Pledges, fraternities, get on the ball. Step
up the creativity. The Phi suggests these
“Hell Week” activities:

-Elevator operators in the science center,
library, C-school and J-school.

-Cummerbund- and bow tie-clad waiters
in the Coop and Laetitia Pate D-Hall.

-Valet parking service in the parking
garage, (available, of course, only at the
proper entrance at the lower level of the
garage.)

-Water boys during gym and yoga classes
and in the weight room.

—Traff1c control on the Colonnade, complete
with traffic safety vests (Yes, the orange ones).

-Following certain administrators and stu-
dent “leaders” around with pooper-scoopers.

-Srat row serenades (Appropriate songs
and times only, please).

-A rickshaw service from Davidson Park
to the Hill.

-A laundry sorting, washing and folding
service in the on-campus laundering facilities.

-Establish a “TNK” SWAT team on the Hill.

—Wal-Mart-type greeters at the entrance
of each academic building, complete with
smiley-faced vests.

-Provide a 24/7 shuttle to LeeHi and WaHo.

-A task force to deﬁne the word “Provost.”

Pledgeship "is almost over; Thiscan be a week
of service rather than a week of such “tradi-
tions” as sleep deprivation, lineups, tunneling,
beatings and consumption of excessive amounts
of alcohol. Make the last week a memorable
one for the entire community.

 

“God, we need more Mississippi Studies on

thisunerrlightened campus.”
~Karl Kuersteiner ‘03
in March 4 campus notices

Founder J. Sam Slicer, 1898L
Editor in chief Katie J. Howell
Opinions Editor BrettT.Kirwan
Arts & Life Editor Catherine C. Guy
Photo Editor Jeb Brooks
Sports Editor Erin Julius
Asst. News Editor CaleyAnderson
Photographers Tallie Jamison

Copy Editor Donny Banks

Business Manager A Paul Seifert
Asst. Business Manager Thomas Worthy
Circulation Director Henry Grimball
Advertising Assistant McQueen Calvert

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee Univer-
sity, Lexington, Virginia. The Washington and Lee Publi-
cations Board elects the Editor in chief, but The Ring-tum
Phi is otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible submis-
sions and letters. All submissions must be e-mailed to
phi@wlu.edu or in the University Center mailbox by 5
p.m. Friday to appear in the following week’s edition. The
Ring-tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for con-
tent and length. Letters and colunms do not necessarily
reﬂect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board Ad-
vertising does not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi
or its staff. This newspaper observes current court deﬁni-
tions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Mailing Address: University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Street Address: 31 Washington Street
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Fax: (540) 462-4059
Email: phi@wlu.edu
http://phi.wlu.edu

THE RING-TUM Par

PINIONS

Kick Kaptur out of Congress

Let it never be said that the war
on terror hasn’t clariﬁed the positions
of both the leﬁ and the right. Since
real life and death issues have over-
taken prescription drugs and school
lunches in the national debate, politi-
cians are no longer able to hide be-
hind loﬁy platitudes and clever pars-
ing when debating our nation’s future.
Unfortrmately for some members of
Congress, this new clarity will seri-
ously hinder their ability to be re-
elected.

The most recent liberal to expose
her contempt for America and com-
plete misunderstanding of our
nation’s history is Rep. Marcy Kaptur,
D-Ohio, who last Saturday told the
Toledo Blade, “One could say that
Osama bin Laden and these non-na-
tion-state ﬁghters with religious pur-
pose are very similar to those kind of
atypical revolutionaries that helped to
cast off the British crown.” To recap,
she lumps George Washington, Tho-
mas Jefferson and John Hancock in
with Osama bin Laden and Khalid
Shaikh Mohammed. Unbelievable
that an elected representative equates
slamming planes into the World Trade
Center with dumping tea into Boston
Harbor, isn’t it?

Granted, Kaptur claims that she
was only trying to highlight the roots
of revolution. Both the American revo-
lutionaries and al-Qaeda are trying to
bring down a great power. But where
does one start with the differences?
American revolutionaries had been
systematically oppressed and abused
and fought nobly, avoiding civilian
casualties. Al-Qaeda seeks to subdue
the world under Sharia law and ex-
pressly targets civilians.

What’s even more cringe-
inducingly stupid is that Kaptur de-
fends her comments as only discuss-
ing “the nature of revolution.” What
revolution is that again, Marcy? Do
you mean the one in which honor-
bound gentlemen fought for freedom
of religion and liberty or the one in
which fanatic barbarians kill all who

, oppose Islam? To label al-Qaeda’s

senseless terrorisrii as a “revolution”

is to give their fanaticism and medi-,

eval morality too much credit.

Moreover, Kaptur is glad that all
the attention given to her idiotic com-
ments has brought national recogni-
tion to her anti-war
stance. That is, given
the opportunity to re-
cant and apologize
for slandering the
memory of our Founding Fathers,
Kaptur thrusts her head even deeper
into the sand.

So, what to do with a member of
Congress so recalcitrant and willfully
ignorant of our traditions of liberty
and noble national purpose? Speaker
Hastert said only that “maybe Marcy
misspoke.” But she refuses to accept
this easy and logical exit from infamy.

  
 

Letters to the Editor

iiii’iirr”¢A‘{i5r:i‘r;rr§iiAigtr;i‘i
 ‘O4 one so inimical to the

PHoT<><.>t,RTE.r W\VW. ousegor kaptur

WHOOPS. Congressman Kaptur receives the Veterans of Foreign War’s Americanisrn
Award. I’ll bet those courageous veterans wish they could take it back.

Since Kaptur intends to persist
in willfully defaming our history and

our forebears,’ shouldiisomeone so '2

clearly sympathetic to our country’s
sworn enemies be allowed to remain
in Congress? With every word she
speaks in their favor, al-Qaeda is
granted legitimacy and our defen-
sive war against
them seriously hin-
dered. Should some-
H T " interests of this na-
tion and so sand-poundingly
clueless about the purposes of our
enemies be given such an elevated
post from which to spout her brain-
less bile? Most importantly, should
the people of Toledo be forced to
endure nearly two more years with
a representative who is more inter-
ested in helping al-Qaeda than her
constituents? Certainly, not.

Sadly, the possibility that a
woman already so senseless will hon-

5 forablylresign her post is.small. There-A -

fore, all freedom-loving Americans
who have any appreciation for the
sacriﬁces our forefathers made in de-
fense of our ﬂedgling nation’s high
ideals must join with the so poorly
represented Toledans and call for the
ouster of Rep. Kaptur. Write, call, fax
and e-mail your representative to tell
him that you are ashamed he shares
the chamber with such a woman.

Free speech is an ideal we trea-
sure above all others, but Kaptur’s ig-
norant comments go so far beyond
reason as to be treasonous and unbe-
coming of a member of Congress. We
cannot win the war on terror if brought
down internally. We’ve kicked the
Taliban out of Afghanistan and we’ll
soon kick Saddam out of Iraq; it’s time
to kick Kaptur out of Congress.

PAGE 3

Blacks not barred
from frat parties

In the Feb. 5 Trident, Kaela Harmon (“Student raises
question of fraternity party admission”) mentions an
incident at a fraternity party, where she was asked to
show ID before admission. I must respectfully disagree
with her position that race played a signiﬁcant role. Fur-
thermore, I disagree with many of her arguments and
believe these differences merit discussion.

I am not familiar with any policies that make it dif-
ﬁcult for minority students to go out and have a good
time, even at the fraternities. There are no rules limiting
minorities getting
into fraternity par-
ties, and no frater-
nity has ever denied
this author admis-
sion to any party. Freshman year, I was asked some
questions that, in retrospect, may have been an at-
tempt to ascertain whether or not I was a Washington
and Lee student. However, interpreting it as someone
attempting to make conversation, I answered and went
on my way when he was ﬁnished asking who my advi-
sor was.

Although the number of minority (and black) stu-
dents on this campus is rather small, the point of a
college education is to expand the boundaries of your
experiences. All students should take advantage of
opportunities to interact with others in as many differ-
ent situations as possible, without becoming uncom-
fortable. This is one of the reasons why one should
choose to attend a top-ﬂight school, like Washington
and Lee. Interactions with other intelligent individuals
make the experience invaluable before a graduate takes
the University’s message to her chosen profession.
Parties can be an extension of this, as they allow di-
verse people to meet and have fun in a social setting.
Students should avoid conﬁning their social lives to
one group, as it cheats them out of a full college expe-
rience.

It is also beneﬁcial and positive to establish a so-
cial group with those of a similar culture. Many minor-
ity students end up sitting together at lunch and es-
tablishing positive social groups. The dormitory coun-
selors and resident assistants establish a social group
that allows them to be more effective as a team. Some
minority students and majority students may decide to
join the Greek system to ﬁnd a social group. I do not
think that this makes these people “gods or goddesses,”
who think that they are better than anyone else nor
does this cause them to consciously place “hoops” in
place for minorities. It simply means that these people
have chosen to join an organization that has a social
aspect to it. I ' " ' ' "

Honestly, sometimes it is diﬁicult to ensure that
every person at a party is a Washington and Lee stu-
dent. But, there is no reason to believe that rules are
enforced completely arbitrarily. This Saturday, in fact,
security at a party denied admission to three VMI ca-
dets who were white and wearing khakis and Polos. Thus,
Harmon’s comment that she would have been treated
differently if white, blonde and accompanied by white
guys in khakis is based on whimsical conjecture rather
than demonstrated fact. Furthermore, as a fraternity mem-
ber, the social aspect of our organization is designed (to
me) to meet and enjoy the company of members of this
community. After having paid social dues, I do not see a
discriminatory facet to a policy that gives Greek organi-
zations the right to reserve social events to members of
this community. I can understand (all too well) Harmon’s
argument that many available dates come from other
schools. But, I also understand that there are plenty of
interesting and attractive individuals that attend schdol
here to meet at social ﬁrnctions.


ONATHAN WORTHAM ‘O4

 

Laundry room escape from outdoors

Dear Editor,

I was shocked to read an article (Ashley Metzloff,
“W&L needs code of behavior for laundry room,” F eb.
10) that cast the laundry room in such a poor light. The
article misinterpreted the laundry room as myself and many
of my peers view it.

It is not a battleﬁeld full of ﬂying laundry and
angry launderers. During these cold winter months,
the laundry room provides an oasis from the bleak
outdoors. When I enter the laundry room, I am taken
to a sunny beach and am holding a boat drink in one
hand.

The jock straps are there for the sunbathers coming
to escape the snow and ice, not for girls to foolishly
giggle at. We just slip on a good old jock, take a seat and
wait for our clothes to dry.

This attitude solves the supposed dilemma of laun-
dry etiquette. So I invite Metzloff to loosen up and take a

trip to the beach. Get over the pride you have for your
own laundry and kick back with us.

Sincerely,

John Howard ‘06

Laundry room etiquette not a problem _

Dear Editor,

I don’t know about the rest of the freshman class but
I, personally, have a rather hectic schedule. In an ideal
world, I would prefer not to wait for “three consecutive
days” to wash my clothes. So what if I choose to idealize
my situation and remove wet clothes from a ﬁnished
washer or dryer? Why should I have to sit around, twiddle
my thumbs, and play with my hair while waiting anxiously
for that certain someone to take his own sweet time to
waltz down the laundry room stairs and claim his belong-
ings?

When I was but a Summer Scholar one and half years
ago, my mother said to me, “Now, Lyndsay, dear, laundry

room etiquette allows you to remove others’ clothes when
their time is up.” Note: she did not say, “Throw them in
their crumpled state into a ﬁlthy comer.” Note: she did not
say, “Evenly distribute them about the room: a sock here,
a hoodie there.” She simply wanted me to assert my own
natural right to a washing machine—is that too much to
ask, Ashley Metzloff? I apologize if my “shameful” acts
have offended you in any way, but I’ve only been follow-
ing Mommy’s orders!

Here’s my solution to the “problem” that I hope will
make everyone happy: 1) stick your laundry basket on top
of your washer and, if you’re running late, it can serve as
a handy place to stow your wet stuff because not only
does it keep it all together it also keeps it off the ground; 2)
wrap the cord of a laundry bag around the handle of your
dryer of choice so, if you’re again running late, your fel-
low laundry—doers can have a simple way to bundle up
your things. That certainly is not too much to ask!
Sincerely,

Lyndsay Polloway ‘06

 

 

  

 

  

“D 

 

‘ chang

 

“Draper urma g on “I saw s g di ulous, .. . ,, y
the checked coats ” but I can’t remember” Fancy dresses and ﬂlp ﬂOpS' Asher Simcoe ” that guy’s diaper ”
_“,,5,.y F,,=,,,,S 40,5 pp...,.‘. 7 _;g;‘,, ‘M -Alexa Moutevelrs 06 . —.‘»mM  ~— ~ ‘M —.lc»r-2! ‘F’ 1*. .-‘rs. ‘O4.

 

 

 

MONDAY, MARCH 10, 2003

Gays not
condemned

LEFT or CENTER
NICK RAMSEY ‘O3

Sadly, these days religion is
all too often used to promote in-
tolerance. For whatever reason,
the Washington and Lee campus
has been at the center of one par-
ticular issue that often polarizes
the religious world. Words have
been exchanged between indi-
vidual students, alumni, and stu-
dent organizations. Meanwhile, the
school’s administration has
stayed strangely quiet during all
this. Of course, I am referring to
the issue of homosexuality.

The week before February
break someone littered the wind-
shields of cars on public streets
and in the Washington and Lee
parking garage with a pamphlet
entitled “What the Bible Really
Says About Homosexuality.” While
this type of behavior reeks of the
tactics used by a particular alum, I
have no grounds to accuse this in-
dividual of such. _

The pamphlet was authored
by “Pastor” Ralph Ovadal and
comes from a group calling them-
selves Wisconsin Christians
United.

The first thing that strikes me
about this is the word “United” ap-
pearing in the group’s title. This
hateful piece of garbage is one of
the most divisive, least Christian
things I have ever read.

I am sure many merely threw it
to the ground or in the trash, but I
took the time to read this entire
leaﬂet from beginning to end. I will
say nothing of the different mean-
ings and translations of biblical
verses used in the pamphlet and
the arguments that can be made
against them. The last time I did
so it merely spawnedan editorial
tennis match between myself and
a freshman whose views are
slightly different than mine.

However, by the mere fact that
this dialogue debating the mean-
ings behind such biblical pas-
sages can occur proves my point.
The Bible is a book that one must
interpret and come to a personal
understanding with. It should not
be something used to broadcast a
one-sided interpretation that
merely condemns a group of
people.

Onto another point, the arro-
gance of this document truly
amazes me. To illustrate this point,
I shall use the document’s very
words. “It may be popular in
today’s culture to defend and pro-
mote sexual perversion in the name
of ‘tolerance’ and ‘diversity’; but
the truth is, _God hates such (ho-
mosexual) acts and judges them
severely.”

Apparently, “Pastor” Ovadal
has a direct pipeline to God that
tells him exactly what the Almighty
hates and how he will judge people.

Using a book written hun-
dreds of years after the time of
Christ and trusting the complete
word for word content just makes
no sense to me.

There exists in the Bible a story
of one of the greatest sacrifices
ever recorded. A sacrifice that was
made by an omnipotent Creator for
the love of those He created. How
then do those that claim to be a fol-
lower of the religion created from
this one act of love defend their
hatred of others? I am truly at a loss
to answer this question.

The objective of organized re-
ligion should be to introduce oth-
ers to this pure love that is ready
for the taking. It should introduce
others to the promise of unending
life. It should be about showing
others how to love themselves and
others with the kind of love that
God gives to us.

Perhaps even more importantly,
it should be about learning to love
and accept others for who they are
and sharing all these things with
them, rather than using a debatable
point to shun and condemn.

You often hear in the news
these days commentary on the dif-
ferences among people of the Is-
lamic faith. Some are peaceful, won-
derful people. Others ﬂy airplanes
into buildings in the name of Allah.

The Islamic faith is not alone
in having those that have been
misguided by their faith.

 

OR1NioNs I

    

France, Germany lead Euro-weenies in opposing warfor selfish reasons

“Going to war without France is like going deer hunting
without your accordion,” Secretary of Defense Donald Rumsfeld
recently said. “All you leave behind is a bunch of noisy bag-
gage.”

Rumsfeld’s candor during the Iraq crisis has been so frank
that I would not be surprised to learn that the State Department
had established a Rumsfeld Rapid Response unit. Such an elite
team would leap to duty at the ﬁrst sign of frankness, and be
quick to soothe our fair-

 

 "  weather allies’ easily rufﬂed
" feathers. For example, if the
OHN   Secretary calls them the “Axis

of Weasels” because they
refuse to comply with the auspices of NATO, the RR unit
would quickly translate that into diplomatic parlance (read: non-
confrontational gibberish).

The problem with this scenario is a matter of ﬁmdamental
principle. The question should not be whether or not Rumsfeld
has gone overboard with his headline-grabbing analysis, but
why the U.S. should allow its interests to be held hostage by
Euro-elites like Germany and France. This tension is not new.
Former French President Charles deGaulle once remarked, “You
may be sure that the Americans will commit all the stupidities
they can think of, plus some that are beyond imagination.”

This new opposition to the war, partly born out of the Viet-
nam-era doves and the noveau—chic anti-Americanism, is stulti-
fying and eerily reminiscent of past sins.

The French and Germans are both loudly opposed to ac-
tion against Iraq, but for different reasons. For France, the equa-

is

Pl-l()T(> (iOL'RTESY q//Ii‘ lit? /11’ em

 
   

£0/II mmyp tux/2/5 1 ).)lm

COWARD (above). Schumer,
a fan of shooting down
Bush’s '
especially afraid of a
conservative Hispanic

nominees, is

judge.

GIPPED (left). Miguel

Estrada deserves to be

Voted upon in the Senate.
PHOTO Cl WRTESY \V'Vv'WICXﬂS\'lCl(JIy.()[g

 

 

Ring—tum Phi,
Stickeri—bum!
We are the stuff
from Lexington!

FOUNDER
]. SAM SLICER, JR.

1898L

   

 
   

Fumﬁmislng; dsxttrs are filing qixlrlﬂy. (‘art with: the pwiwatm lime v.«r>ri:_‘l

Yrlrtr‘ Tr:l.1'l-W547 Xnrtnﬁe _;J.'i:.1r (7r)i§e:g'er .i"'wm!ra'é.tJrz,gr.

838'-923--3238 - wv:w.campusf‘undraiserzcom

APARTMENTS Illl lllllill: ,
close to lexinglon. heautilul condition.
notches lacing river. one large l$425lmo.l

two small I$3z'.iImo.l. law or umlerorarl.

l0I' next lrear. 540-377-2980.
nt:whhw@nteIosnol

 

PHOTO COURTESY perm. r/ub-irztemetfr
AXIS OF WEASELS. French President Chirac, left, and German
Chancellor Schroeder have been united in their opposition to a war
against Saddam. Most other European nations support the U.S.

tion appears to be simple: one of France’s biggest companies,
oil conglomerate TotalFinaElf, is currently negotiating to extract
some of Iraq’s oil reserves. One assumes that bombing Iraq
back to the stone age would not appear to be a sign of French

goodwill. The French should know, because, they’ve been
burned before. TotalFinaElf had secured rights to exploit one
Iraqi oil ﬁeld that was expected to produce 30 million barrels; the
Iraqi regime quashed that deal in 2001 because of France’s con-
tinuing support of UN sanctions.

In the Fatherland, Gerhard Schroder seized on anti-war sen-
timent to save his precariously perched Chancellorship: in Oc-
tober of 2002, Schroder, headed for defeat in the upcoming elec-
tions, loudly proclaimed his govemment’s opposition to any
war in Iraq, with or without UN support. Largely because of this
issue, Schroder defeated—by »a hair’s breadth—~his conserva-
tive opponent.

The German people agree with Schroder. While
France’s opposition may be rooted in elitism and economic
interests, Germany’s opposition is rooted in history. Still
wracked with guilt over the “starring role” in World Wars
I and II, the Germans are now, despite the Teutonic stereo-
types, frantically pacifist. They desperately cling to
Santayana’s cliche that “those who forget the past are
condemned to repeat it.”

The ironic twist, however, is that their top-speed sprint
away from their past has led them to run head long into another
dark chapter in European history.

Schroder, Chirac, and others have become the Neville Cham-
berlains of the present. In an era where weaponry has replaced
land as the primary chit of international hardball, refusing to
enforce Iraqi demilitarization equates to letting Germany re-con-
quer the Rhineland. Let’s hope America maintains the moral
courage to refrain from following suit.

oward of the Week

An irregular feature of the Rjr2g—i'zm P/22' Opinions section

PAGE 4

  

Senator Chuck Schumer, D-N.Y.

rity, budgetary and military issues) be- 

He is a senior member of the Senate
J udicary who has broken a precedents
and unapologetically politicized the pro-
cess of confirming the president’s nomi-
nees. He initiated a ﬁlibuster to prevent a
vote on the confirmation of Miguel
Estrada to the DC. Circuit Court of Ap-
peals. For being afraid to vote on the nomi-
nation—because he knows he’ll lose—
Sen. Chuck Schumer, Democrat from New
York is this week’s Coward of the Week.

Miguel Estrada immgrated from Hon-
duras when he was seventeen not know-
ing a word of English. By nineteen, he had
mastered English enough to be admitted
to Columbia. He continued his education
at Harvard Law School where he was the
editor of the Harvard Law Review.

He earned a unanimous well-
qaulified rating from the American Bar
Association and served under Solicitor
General Seth Waxman during the Clinton
Administration. He has argued 15 cases
before the Supreme Court, l0 of which
were decided in his favor. He is over-
whelmingly supported by the Hispanic
community; his only opponents are lib-
eral Hispanic activist organizations with
miniscule memberships. One can hardly
imagine a better example of the American
Dream.

There are at least 55 senators who
wish to see Estrada confirmed, but
Schumer is leading a ﬁlibuster to prevent
(while at the same time preventing the
Senate from addressing important secu-

cause he is beholden to liberal activist 

organizations that wish to remake the fed- "1
eral bench so that America can be refonned 

through ligitation.

In essence, Schumer is holding Presi- 

dent Bush and the Senate to an impos- 
sible super-majority standard, demading 7.
that 60 votes, the number required to end 
a ﬁlibuster, be cast in favor of a judicial 4‘

nominee. Schumer is unwilling to accept

the results of the 2000 election which ,

gave President Bush the power to make
appointments and the 2002 elections
which gave the GOP control of the Sen-
ate. He ought to face his fear of another
strict-constructionist judge on the federal
bench and allow a vote on Miguel Estrada.

. rug 3? $15, i:5a§.i‘ M1id;ri3.i Shaw}? 5 E95;

 Fnmrirajskrg  emlatric-. No»  Ne rxtrlfbes. Just rearranges?

lNSPiRE[l BY  RODS, SW5 MD DARWIN.

I

 

Seats fire, has 53 cubic
feet of cargo space. and
is available with 188 hp
and a B-speed manual
shift. Even evolution
can’: fully explain it.
saw T@‘.tCrIé%t8TrI)E$!éE’3, Lliilakllflit ﬁwlﬁl

l'%Ti.E.      
Es”   .l'rCTL|r:L%‘J..Eli Fliﬁlall§‘l".I3rll't..

 

4
N
BOUTIQUE t

 

Winter Madness Sale
567367’ 7OH1/3’ox/ juicy Couiiurex

M71?

8 C B G ii»-ii .«’3’s.}{ .e‘5"»xEf. Q ixik  \-
“CHANGING CHARLOTTESVILLE ONE DRESS AT A Tl.ME” 
107 Elliewood Ave. On the UVA Comer 245-2217 ' _

I1. ‘‘—.'‘‘‘‘l.- I I‘I—IU..t|‘-I R.

DIXIE DIVAS

Vt

 

   

CIIIIERINE C. GLY
I ARTS&l.lFE EDITOR
A E1\llH;GL"Y(‘@\l<lL'.El)L‘

V Mom, MARCH 10, 2003 

 

H PAGE 5

 

l\\Tll H0\X'EI,l._/ The Ring-P/J1
READY To ROCK! George Clinton and his band pull up to the gym in their buses and vans in order to set up for their performance.

_ K.\'['IE H<)\vEI.I,/ T/JP R1’:/(g-/Im P/21'
SOME ENCHANTED EVENING. A couple dances together to
George Clinton’s band, enjoying the Fancy Dress atmosphere.

    

   
   

K. IE ( ./ /J2Ig—///1/’z'
FROM LEXINGTON WITH LOVE. James Bond’s glittering opponents line the stairs leading to the Warner Center, welcoming partygoers. The lovely and creative decorations
were painstakingly conceptualized and created by this year’s Fancy Dress Stearing Committee, whose members have spent countless hours all year planning this year’s ball.

'1 EB BRO()K.\‘/ T/2:» Ring-tzrm P/Ii
STAGE STRUCK. The stage in the small gym anxiously awaits the arrival of its hand.

l\'.\ I II ll( >\I ,I./ TH fig-/I021 1’/J1’
N’ LET US IN! Fancy Dress partygoes line up on the gym stairs in order to get into the ball.

l\'\'I IE. H0\\ ELL T/J6’ R1'n(g—t/my P/22' V V KYLE MEEH.\N/ T/Jt’ Ring-rm Pb:
GET DOWN TONIGHT! Diaper man wows the crowd as a result of both his music and eccentric manner of dressing. ALL SHE WANTS TO DO IS DANCE. A couple admires the Fancy Dress decor while danceing together.

I,

 

IZAGE6

 8: LIFE

 

Singing in perfect harmony

THE ENTERTAINMENT OF ROYALTY: The British—based all male
a mppe//a group, “The King’s Singers” perforned for a crowd

Southern Comfort: you’ve got some competition. A
few weeks ago, the W&L Concert Guild presented the
world—renowned men’s a cappella group, “The King’s
Singers.” Their diverse program ranged from French
Renaissance music to “Rakastava, Op. l4” by Jean
Sibelius to Beach Boys, while their
light—hearted spirit and English
accents enchanted the audience. I am
certain that everyone left Lenfest
Center that snowy Tuesday night
with warm hearts and smiles on their
faces.

Singing extremely complicated

pieces within a wide range of repertoire, I was personally
amazed at how ﬂawlessly their voicesrblended together.
One moment all six singers would be singing a different
note, on a different end of the scale, seeming almost like a
different song and melody completely, and the next moment
— perfect harmony.
During each piece, each singer
seemed to represent a different
instrument, as though they were the
representation of an entire orchestra!
How each remained focused on his
particular part, I am bewildered. Their
group was composed of two
countertenors, a tenor, two baritones,
and a bass. Their music surpassed
any a cappella group I had ever
heard, and as their individual resumes
portrayed, each King’s member was
born to sing.

As their voices ' blended and I
listened to the piece as a whole, they were
able to completely create the image of the
music, representing in a phenomenal way the meaning of
the piece. In “Scenes in America Deserta,” for example,
their voices alone portrayed the ‘silence, heat, and light,’
the coloristic features, and the ‘human element’ of the
pueblo frescoes. How they were able to represent these
desert characteristics, I do not know — and I cannot
explain any ﬁirther the profound effect their voices had
upon the audience. If you were there, you know. If you
were not there, let me just tell you that after the piece

 
 

  
 ..14URI1£I9tIBIIIIItiL03

THEIR LIGHT-HEARTED
SPIRIT AND ENGLISH
ACCENTS ENCHANTED
THE AUDIENCE. I AM
CERTAIN THAT
EVERYONE LEFT
LENFEST CENTER THAT
SNOWY TUESDAY NIGHT
WITH WARM HEARTS
AND SMILES ON THEIR
FACES.

W . I‘ . 1
at Lenfest last week. Their diverse repertoire and witty banter
entertained those who braved the elements to see the show.

ended and during intermission, the line for the water
fountain was out the door!

Also, I would like to mention how incredibly long
they sang — and without any water, for that matter. The
“Scenes in America Deserta” itself was a continuous 14
minute song. And they sang with such ease and liveliness
— no problem, eh? I wonder.how long
they practice. . . 9

Finally, I cannot end the
article without a word on their
personalities. The liveliness of their
character made the concert more
relaxed, placing the audience more
at ease. They were having fun — always smiling and
chuckling, adding wry remarks here and there. As they
sang love songs from the French Renaissance, they
made playful faces and comical gestures, always making
the audience laugh — especially the song “There’s a
ﬂea in my ear and it’s driving me crazy.”

Their enthusiastic and vivacious
character definitely came forth at the
conclusion of the concert, as they sang
“Selections from the Lighter Side of the
Repertoire,” which included “Eleanor
Rigby,” Queen’s “Sea-Side Rendez-Vous,”
Beach Boys and other contemporary
favorites. Although I must admit — my
personal favorite was their piece
dedicated to the greatest state in the US,
the state that is a country in itself: Texas.
Singing “Deep in the Heart of Texas” and
other Texan folk songs, I could not help
but laugh at the sight of six English men
square-dancing around, imitating
cowboys, and yee-hawing! It was quite a
sight!

The King’s Singers are a widely acclaimed group,
traveling all throughout the world for their performances,
and I hope that, if you were not able to see them here at
W&L, you will get the opportunity to see them one
day. Their website is: www.kingssingers.com and they
have several recordings available for sale. If you like
men’s a cappella, I recommend buying a CD — they’re
deﬁnitely the best!

Film Society presents social commentary

l’R()I\l S'l".lFl’ REPORTS

The Washington and Lee Film
Society is pleased to present the
Oscar-nominated documentary
“Bowling for Columbine”. This 2002
ﬁlm was directed by Michael Moore.

Screenings will take place at 7:30
p.m. on Friday and Saturday, March 14
and 15, and will occur in the
Troubadour Cinema. There is no charge
for admission, but contributions are
welcome. This film is in English and is
rated “R” for violent images and
language. As critic Roger Ebert noted,
“The movie is rated ‘R,’ so that the
Columbine killers would have been E

MONDAY, MARCH 10, 20031,:
9.

Lies I was told as a prospective:  

BY CAIEY ANDERSON
.IssIsT.INr NEWS EDITOR

Ah, yes, it is that time of year once again. Thats
right, ladies and gentlemen, its spring. The time when
dormant vegetation comes back to life. The time when
restless animals sound their piercing mating calls.
And, most importantly, the time when young men and
women approaching the end of their high school
careers, turn their thoughts from drama club to
dormitories, from graduation to grade inﬂation, from
APs to applications, and from composition to
contraception.

In early March of 2002, I, Caley Anderson,
soj ourned from my home in sunny southern California
to Virginia for the purpose of interviewing for an honor
scholarship here at this distinguished intstitute of

_ higher learning. While here, I had the good fortune to

meet many students, professors, and staff, all of whom
were extremely gushy about and full of praise for W&L.
Now that I have matriculated here, I ﬁnd most of their
praise to be quite accurate (our faculty IS the best, the
science center IS great, the staff IS wonderful, Laetitia
Pate Evans dining hall IS tolerable, etc.). However,
there was a small number of little white lies that were
told to me during my original visit. I uncovered many
of these only through personal experience and terrifying
epiphany.

1- “Drinking isn’t really a
problem here, no more than at any
other college.” And actually, the
speaker was right. Despite the fact
that I can hear slurred voices yelling
“Eyyyyyyyyyyl,” from 1:30 to 4:30 in
the morning at least three days a week,
drinking really lit a problem here.
And the students are extremely liberal
in their political views. And the D-

HOWEVER, THERE wAS‘A
SMALL NUMBER OF LITTLE
WHITE LIES THAT WERE
TOLD To ME DURING MY
ORIGINAL VISIT. I UNCOv—
ERED MANY OF THESE

fast as we can toward the door, only to have it I

close -in our faces. Then we’ll notice that
ANOTHER door is opening, and run there, and so
forth. I find that the best strategy is to discreetly

follow, in a creepy, stalker-esque manner, someone it

who looks like they might be heading to your dorm,
hoping and praying that you can casually saunter
up to them, as though by coincidence, as they
open the door.

4- “You’re from San Diego? I’ve been there,‘

the climate is pretty similar to ours here in
Lexington.” While I appreciate the considerate
sentiment, I don’t really think that the speaker really
appreciated the glorious weather that we are
fortunate enough to enjoy in southern California.
In Virginia, it gets pretty hot in the fall, though
generally not intolerably so. ‘In San Diego, we sit
in lounge chairs by the beach, (with the temperature

at a temperate 73 degrees at high noon each day Y

throughout the year) drinking ice-cold strawberry
smoothies while lovely, nubile, scantily-clad young
members of the opposite sex fan us gently with palm
fronds. As you all should know from personal

experience by now, this is not the case here in I

Virginia.
5- “You can get groceries and’ other necessary
things at a convenient and reasonable distance from

the campus.” Let’s face it, everyone, if it weren’t for 9‘)

tourism and the approximately 27 million antiques shops
(give or take), Lexington would consist
of simply two colleges without a town.
I have to walk seven blocks just to get
bulk soda, then carry it back (because,
of course, of the rule that all Freshmen
who bring cars will be spirited away into
darkness and never emerge again). And

veriﬁable groceries (aside from Kroger) ‘

Han Serves buttered Crab legs with ONLY THROUGH PER— is Wal-Mart, which makes that glorious
white Wine nightly And the campus SQNAL EXPERIENCE AND store/optometrist’s office/video arcade/1
is iconviently located in downtown TERRIPYING EPIPHANY. hair salon/one how photo center Seem

Kyoto, Japan. Speaking ofliberality. . .

2- “The campus is fairly
conservative, but the majority of the student body is
pretty moderate.” The same guy who said the above
quote gave me this one, too. That scored points with
me, because, although I am a registered democrat, I
think of myself as very moderate. And yet, when I got
here, I noticed that most people pronounce “politically
liberal” in the Same tone that I might reserve for, say,
“Nazi Gennany.”

3- “The campus is great. It’s so beautiful,
and it’s always really easy to get from one place
to another.” I will admit, this one is generally quite
true. It is not true, however, if you are one of
those unfortunate individuals stricken with
temporary stupidity from time to time. I’m sure
that we will all, at some point or another, if we
have not already, leave our respective dorms
without our university cards. And then, because
we will be too timid and reserved to ask the nice
folks down in the security office to open the doors
for us, we will pick an entrance to our dorm and
guard it like a hawk. Meanwhile, we’ll see someone
exiting a door thirty feet away, and we’ll run as

more and more like Disneyworld the
longer I’m away from it. ;

6- “The speaking tradition is still a big part of
campus life.” This one is not entirely false. I do my;

best to say “hi” to everyone I pass out there. The V

problem is that only about half the people say “hi”
back. Another problem- I don’t think the good
General envisioned a “mumbling” or a “nodding
tradition.”

GRANT- “Well, I think it’s indeed quite I‘

reasonable to allow your men to keep their sidearms;
and horses now that the war is over, don’t you,’
General Lee?” ‘~

LEE- “mumble mumble yeah, whatever, mumble.” 

I didn’t think so either. ,
Well, Generals, that’s all for now. I’ll be busy
writing, thinking, and building a conveyor belt to
transport the class of 2006 from Graham-Lees to Wal‘-}

Mart. V

And remember, if in the future you happen to:
spy a certain creepy guy wearing a Chargers hat
following you to your home at a distance of ﬁfteen

feet, he’s not going to kill you, he just forgot his’

university card.

Lexington Art Gallery hosts photography forum 1

FROM STAFF REPORTS

The Lexington Art Gallery will
sponsor a photography forum on the
weekend of March 22-23, 2003, here
in Lexington, which is limited on a
ﬁrst-received basis to 80 attendees
by an advanced registration fee of
$25.00.

On Saturday, March 22, at 2 p.m.
in the VMI Preston Library at 345
Letcher Avenue, Sally Wiant,
Professor of Law at W&L _Law
School, will open the forum with an
update on “Copyright Issues.” Miss
Wiant will speak on the most current
laws and answer questions from the
audience. ‘

At 3 p.m. on Saturday, Jack
Spencer, a contemporary
photographer from Nashville, TN,
will tell the stories behind his
photographs with a visual
presentation at the VMI Preston
Library. Immediately following his

    

 WGWm'IU\l

A TOUCH OF CLASS: The interior of the Lexington Art Gallery showcasing the ,g_
work of contemporary photographers from Virginia and the rest of the
nation. The Gallery plans to host a forum on the subject of photography
which will be held in Lexington during the weekend of March 22-23.

the only real, actual place that sells}

protected from the ‘violent images,’
mostly of themselves.”

Michael Moore is one ofAmerica’s
best known media gadﬂies, using both
print in “Stupid White Men” and the
cinema in “Roger and Me” to draw
attention to social, economic and
political issues in the country. He does
not provide answers to questions, but
he raises them to provoke discussion.
Here, he pokes and prods at the
American gun culture, with the
shootings at Columbine High School
as his starting point.

Along the way, he encounters a
cross-section of Americana ranging from
Charlton Heston to Marilyn Manson to
K—Mart and, occasionally, he seems to lose
his way. But, as the Los Angeles TiInes’s
Kenneth Turan wrote, “Moore’s
shambling on-screen persona
camouﬂages his ﬁerceness and
persistence, his conviction that, as the
father of a Columbine victim puts it,
“There’s something wrong in this country
when a child can grab a gun and kill.”

Ix RElJi}lnl(1\\l(I)KL/L/RE\'ﬂ:\X;B(1XIl>X3l0Rt30IL?\lBH\!F.HlT\ﬂ.

A POIGNANT COMMENTARY ON OUR SOCIETY: Micheal Moore’s 2002 ﬁlm “Bowling
for Columbine” addresses the issues of our Culture as centered upon the
Columbine High School shooting tragedy of 1999. The documentary follows
Moore On a Cross-country trek and provides audiences with fodder for much
thought and debate on violence and other controversial issues in American society.

talk, a reception and exhibit will be
held at the Lexington Art Gallery
at 13 W. Nelson Street where
Spencer will sign Native Soil, his
monograph of 74 Southern images.
On March 23, Sunday, from
a.m. until 12 noon, ‘
Brooks Johnson,
the Curator of
Photography from
The Chrysler
Museum in
Norfolk, will review
private portfolios
with individual
photographers by
a d v a n c e d
appointments and a prepaid $20 fee.
At the VMI Preston Library,
345 Lechter Avenue, the March
23rd Sunday afternoon session
starts at 2 p.m. The first speaker
is George F. Thompson, President
and Publisher of the Center for
American Places. Thompson will
address “Getting the Word Out

 

Through Books of
Photography.”

At 2:45 p.m., Brooks
Johnson, Curator of

Photography from the Chrysler
Museum, will discuss the
museum’s current
and future plans
for photography
exhibits as well as
give an overview
of the Museum’s
fine photography
collection, the
largest in Virginia.

At 3:30 p.m.,
Denise Bethel, the
Senior Vice President of the
Photography Department at
Sotheby’s auction house in New
York City, will end the forum with
a visual presentation on
photography which includes the
historic view as well as the era
starting in the 1970’s-‘80’s when
collecting photography became

popular in the art world. Her‘
topic is “10 Ways to Strike it
Rich by Collecting
Photography.”

For more information Ofy
any unforeseen future changes
in the forum, visit
www.lexingtonartgallery.com
or contact Lexington Art
Gallery at 13 W. Nelson Street!‘
by phone at 540-464-8080. All
checks should be mailed and
made out to “Lexington 

Gallery.” M .1

The Lexington Art Gal- .
lery is located at 13 W
Nelson St. The Gallery " '-y
specializes in contempo- f
rary photography, and 
often features the work of
photographers of both . 1
national and local re-
nown.

 

  

 
 

ER1N]ouos
PORTS EonoR

BY ER1N_lU1.1Us
SPORTS EDITOR

‘ Washington and Lee’s men’s
lacrosse team has moved into
-fourth place to trail only
Middlebury, Gettysburg and

 Rm-rtih Pat

—~ PORTS

OFFENSE ATTEMPT. Gavin Molinelli, no. two, plays offense during Saturday’s
game against Gettysburg. Molinelli scored two points in the conference win.

Salisbury in the Division III men’s
lacrosse poll, which was released
last Monday evening. Voting for
the list was conducted by members
of the United States Intercollegiate
Lacrosse Association. Whittier,
Hampden-Sydney, Washington

1 Mens, womens tennis

 

J58 BRooRs / The Ring» P

The General’s next rnatchup is Sunday against Franklin and Marshall at 1:30

p.m. on Wilson Field.

College, Ithaca, Cortland State and
Ohio Wesleyan round out the Top
10. In the Inside Lacrosse/Faceoff
Magazine preseason poll, the Gen-
erals had been ranked sixth. The
team pulled a 10-9 win over
Gettysburg in a game hosted by the

- jsn BROOKS / Te Rirzg-/zm1P/Ji
MEN’S TENNIs.]uniorGrahamNixservesdu1ingV/ednesdayfs match.

BY ALLISON PERRY

)‘ ' SPORTS WRITER
_ The Washington and Lee women’s and men’s tennis
teams each came out with a win in ODAC competition
‘Wednesday. The men defeated Hampden-Sydney, 7-0 at

'home. The women also played at home, shutting down
, Hollins with a 9-0 victory.

' Sophomore Paul McClure led the men with a 6-
;0, 6-0 win in the No. 1 singles match. Junior captain

g‘Austin Kim won his match 6-0, 6-1 in the No. 2 spot.
In the No. 3 singles match, junior captain Graham
Nix defeated his opponent 6-1, 6-0. In the No. 4, 5,
and 6 singles, junior K.C. Shaefer and freshmen
1 David Shay and Jordan Eichenberger defeated their

‘opponents 6-1, 6-2; 6-0, 6-1; and 6-0, 6-0, respec-
tively.

     

 teas take wins at home matches

In doubles play, Kim and Nix won 8-4 at No. 1.
McClure and Shay shut down their opponents 8-0
at No. 2. Schafer and freshman Chris Kimmel also
won their match with an 8-1 victory in No. 3
doubles.

In the women’s match, 13 ranked sophomore Lind-
say Hagerman defeated her opponent 6-0, 6-3 in No. 1
singles. Senior captain Erika Proko won 6-4, 6-0 at No. 2.
At the No. 3 spot, senior Brandi Jane Wedgeworth had a
6-0, 6-1 victory. In the No. 4, 5, and 6 singles, junior
Elizabeth Law and freshmen Patty Roberts and Ingrid
Easton won their matches 6-3, 6-0; 6-3, 6- 1; and 6-0, 3-6,
6-0, respectively. '

In doubles play, Hagerman and Proko won 8-3 at No.
1. Wedgeworth and senior Alyson Brice secured an 8-5
victory at No. 2. Law and sophomore Marie Trimble also
won their match, 8-5, in No. 3 doubles.

Several of the usual top six players were not at the
match due to academic obligations.

“We were pushed up really far,” said Head Coach
Cinda Rankin, “But it was a nice win.”

Both the men’s team and the women’s team are ranked
No. 1 in the ODAC conference. The men are nationally
ranked No. 14 in NCAA Division HI. The women are ranked
second in the nation.

The men’s team lost three top senior players after
last year. But the Generals have acquired a strong
group of freshmen. David Shay is expected to see
some playing time in one of the top six singles spots.
In high school, Shay won the Georgia state individual
singles championship twice. Freshman Jordan
Eichenberger is also likely to play in one of the top six
spots this spring.

Freshman Justin Hannon was also expected to play
in the No. 1 singles spot and at No. 1 or No. 2 doubles this
spring, but he is currently injured. He trained in Spain for
a year right after high school.

The men’s team will also beiled by juniors Kim, Nix,
and Schaefer. Kim earned All-ODAC honors at No. 4
singles and No. 2 doubles in the spring. Nix received All-
ODAC honors at No. 5 singles and No. 2 doubles last
season. Schaefer earned All-ODAC honors at No. 3
doubles.

Sophomore Paul McClure will also play in the top six.
He received All-ODAC honors last season at No. 2 singles
and No. 3 doubles.

The women’s team, being ranked second in the na-
tion, stands a good chance of winning the national cham-
pionship this year. The NCAA Division III tournament
will be held in May.

“We would like to live up to our national ranking,”
Rankin said. I

Living up to the national ranking will not be hard with
the return of top players Hagerman, Proko, and senior
captain Laura Bruno.

Hagerman was named co-National Rookie of the
Year for the 2002 season. Proko is a three-time All-
American. She made it to the semiﬁnals of the national
singles tournament last year. Hagerman and Proko
played together to win the South Region doubles last
year. They then placed ﬁfth atthe ITA National Cham-
pionships.

Brtmo was an ODAC champion at No. 4 singles fresh-
man year and No. 3 singles sophomore year. She has also
won two ODAC doubles championships.

Coach Rankin said there is an armual Fab 5 tourna-
ment at the end of March where the top national teams will
meet up in competition.

“This should tell us where we will rank nationally,”
Rankin said.

The women play today at home against
Swarthmore. The match is scheduled for 3:30 p.m. The
men play tomorrow at Eastern Mennonite, but the time
is TBA.

Generals on Saturday afternoon at
Wilson Field. Saturday’s win im-
proved the General’s record to 2-0.
The Generals were led by
attackman Matt Fink, ’04, who re-
corded one goal and four assists.
Throughout the game, the Gener-

als held the lead or were tied dur-
ing the second half., but the Bul-
lets never led the contest. W&L
extended a 5-2 half time lead to 6-2
with 6:18 remaining in the third pe-
riod when midfielder Mark
McLewee, ’04 scored off an assist
from midﬁelder Dustin Martin, ’04.
The Bullets then scored the next
four goals, tying the game at 6-6
with only 28 seconds left in the
third period, before the Generals
bounced back in the fourth quar-
ter, leading 8-6. with 10:01 left in
the game.

The game was tied two more
times, at 8-8 and 9-9, before Tom
Melanson’s, ’03, game-winning
goal

“The defense has always been
the strength of the team and they
played really well. We need to work
on finishing teams, not letting them
get back into the game,” said John
Murray, ’05.

W&L was led in scoring by
attackman Matt Fink, ’04, who tallied
one goal and four assists. McLewee
scored three total goals. Attackman
Gavin Molinelli had two goals and
one assist. Orhan Belding recorded
one goal and Jimmy Zunka each
scored one goal. Fink recorded four
assists while Martin recorded two
and Mike McNamara, Adam

  Golf takes 9th place

FROM STAFF AND WIRE REPORTS

The Washington and Lee golf team shot a 304-
300—604 to place ninth of 24 teams at the Pfeiffer/Pine
Needles Invitational on Monday and Tuesday at the
Pine Needles Golf Club in Southern Pines, N.C.

The Generals were led by senior Chip Campbell,
who went 70—77—1 47 for the tournament. Other W&L
scores were Ged Johnson, ’05, went 73-77-150, Tom
Borda, ’O6, went 78-74-152, Chuck Green, ’03, went 83-
74-157 and Cullen Toole, 06, went 84-75-159.

PAGE 7

   

his BRooR The Ring-ti//1 P/)1
SIDELINE. Two Generals look on as junior
Mad{McLewee takes on a Gettysburgplayer.

Chesbrough abd Gavin Molinelli all
recorded one assist each. The Bul-
lets actually outshout the Generals
26-20.

“We played really good defense
as a team and shot extremely well on
one of the best goalies in the nation,
“said Chesbrough, however next
game, “We have to make sure that
we remain composed throughout the
whole game. This season we expect
to win the ODAC and have home
ﬁeld advantage throughout the play-
offs. In the tournament we hope to
go farther then we did last year, ” he
said.

Captain Ansel Sanders, ’04,
stopped six shots in goal.
The General’s take Franklin and
Marshall next in a home game Sun-
day afternoon.

 

But it wasn’t a bar for long. The local Police Department shut down Swifty’s
Lounge for illegal drug activity. instead of condemning the property, they
contacted their local community coalition. The coalition brought in contractors
who donated their time to renovate the building. And the doctor got his hospital

to volunteer services for families that need drug counseling.

lt’s funny what happens when we all work together. Communities become a better
place for everyone, especially our children. Community coalitions bring
other community groups together. And getting involved is easy. just Contact
www.helpyourcommunity.org or 1 -877-KIDS-313. The)/ll tell you how your group

can help. You’ll be surprised how much you can accomplish.

you get; More wHeN 30.} get; ‘l203e‘l',ﬂe[‘_

Office of National Drug Control Policy ‘

    

 

  

 

PILGE. 8

 lizr

 

BY JOHN HYLAND
SPORTS WRITER

The Washington and Lee base-
ball team got their season off to a great
start by going 4-1, 3-1 in the ODAC,
last week to improve their record to 6-
2 overall. They had a double-header
scheduled for Sunday against West
Virginia Tech. Some decent weather
allowed the Generals to ﬁnally get
their conference season under way
after four games were postponed the
week following February Break.

The Generals began their busy
week last Sunday, March 2nd in a
double-header against ODAC foe
Emory & Henry, losing their only game
of the week in the first game, by squan-
dering a 3-2 lead. E&H came back to
score six runs in the bottom of sixth
(out of 7 innings) for an 8-5 victory.
Junior Peter Dean was the losing
pitcher. In the loss, junior second
basemenAustin Allain went 3 for 3 with
two runs scored and senior shortstop
Michael Hanson hit a solo homerun.

W&L used the tough loss as mo-
tivation because they came back to
score 15 runs in the first three innings
of the second game en route to a 26-1
demolition of E&H. Eight of the nine
General starters had multi—hit games for
a total of 28 hits. The offense was led
by senior centerfielder Bobby
Littlehale who went ﬁve for six on the
night, including a three-run homerun
for six RBIs and three runs scored. Not
only did the Generals crush every
pitcher that E&H put on the mound,
they also received a masterful perfor- I
mance from junior right-hander Dan
Kagey who compiled the second no-
hitter of his career. Kagey pitched all
seven innings allowing one walk and

13 strikeouts. The lone run Kagey al-
lowed was scored on an error.

The Generals then traveled to
Mary Washington last Tuesday,
March 4th, for a non- conference game
and were able to get a 9-2 victory. Jun-
ior right-hander Michael Wert pitched
seven innings, allowing 2 rims to earn
the win. Brian Gladysz and Scott
Gosselink pitched two innings of
scoreless relief. At the plate, Hanson
and Allain combined for three runs,

six hits and three RBIs. Junior catcher
and rightﬁelder Bryan Mulhem added
three RBIs in the win.

The team opened up their home
schedule this past Saturday with a
doubleheader against conference rival
Hamden-Sydney. Game 1 featured a
brilliant pitching performance from
Dean. The left-hander rebounded from
his previous outing, to pitch seven
complete innings of one run ball to
earn the win iii a 12-1 victory and im-
prove his record to 2-1 on the season.
Dean pitched very efficiently, keeping
his pitch count very low and allowing
only 6 base runners for the game. He
also recorded 6 strikeouts. The defense
behind Dean was also superb in not
committing an error. Dean was also
supported by an offense that pum-
meled the three Hamden-Sydney pitch-
ers that they faced by compiling 14
hits. Many of their outs were even hit
hard. Eight out of 9 General starters hit
safely, led by senior first baseman Brian
Gladysz, who ﬁnished with three hits, a
run scored and two RBIs.

The Generals completed their sea-
son sweep of the Tigers with a 6-2 vic-
tory. Kagey followed his no-hitter with
another solid performance. Aﬁer giv-
ing up two runs in the first three
innings, Kagey pitched ﬁve score-
less innings to earn the win and
improve his record to 2-1 on the
season. Hanson pitched a scoreless
ninth to seal the victory. Gladysz was a
perfect 4 for 4 at the plate for the game
and chipped in two RBIs. On the after-
noon he was an incredible 7 for 9 with a
run scored and four RBIs. Sophomore
catcher Zach Bausch hit a solo home
run in a 3 run fourth inning that gave
the Generals a 5-2 lead that they would
not relinquish. Bausch continues to be
extremely hot at the plate, leading the
team with a .522 batting average.

The Generals got themselves off to
an early lead in the ODAC standings
and seem to be clicking in every
facet of the game. Following the
West Virginia Tech double header,
the Generals play host to Mount
Aloysius on Tuesday, March 9th, be-
fore resuming their conference sched-
ule next Saturday the 15th in a double-
header at Randolph-Macon.

     

Baseball gets stron ;

N0 HITTER. Dan Kagey pitches from the mound during Washington and

MONDAY, MARCH 10, 2003 ,

Lee’s game against Emory and Henry last Sunday. Kagey pitched all seven his career.

_ .8 )OKS / The Ring-/um Pin" 1
innings, allowing one walk and 13 strikeouts. It was the second no-hitter of

 Washington and Lee’s women’s lacrosse team continued its sea-
son with an impressive 20-4 victory over Guilford last Tuesday in an
ODAC—opener game played in Greensboro, N.C. Nine members of the
team scored goals as the Generals outshot the Quakers 34-6. This win
brought the General’s record to 1- 1 , 1-0 ODAC. The Generals has lost
their season—opener 4-8 to St. Mary’s last Sunday.

Midﬁelder Kelly Taffe, ’04, was the games high-scorer, recording
eight points on four goals and four assists. Fellow midﬁelder Lee
Wheeler, ’04, had four goals and two assists while midﬁelder Rachel
Wallick, ’06, had four goals and one assist. In all, 12 different players
recorded at least one point for the Generals. Leslie Bogart ‘O3, Natalya
Hoobchaak ‘O5, Kitt Murphy, ’05, Erin Rathbone, ’05, Maggie
Speasmaker, ’05, and Amanda Strickler, ’06, all scored goals while
, Hoobchaak, Annie Rochfort, ’05, Bogart, Laing Humphries, ’O6, Wallick
l and Laura Wilson, ’03, were responsible for assists.

‘ The Generals will return to the ﬁeld on Saturday, when the travel
to Goucher for a non-conference game scheduled to begin at 1p.m.

Women’s Lax scores big win

FROM STAFF REPORTS

Dine on our V"e’randa'
M aywoctober

 

HOUSE.

Remﬁaurant

Enjoy efegmrzt alirrirzg in at restored 1820 CZas5z'caz[ Rezzigal
rnzarrzfrouse £22 historic dnwrzmwn‘. lexingran

- Tn 
WILLAS<ON_-  _
WALKER »

  
  
 
 
 

fine Dining of Jfistoric Troportions

“Die Best food in Lexiryyton”
~Co1u{e Mast Trrwefer

‘Tues-zfa_y—5aturr{a_y
Luncﬁ 11:30—2:30 L/Jinner i30~9:00
(5atun{a_1,I Lunch not seruer{]an.—£7l/far.)

30 9\[ortfi Main Street
in Downtown Lexirrgton
(540) 463-3020
wwu/.wi[£sonwa[i{er.com

This week’s schedule:

Baseball: Tuesday, Mar. 11, home against Mt. Aloysius at 3 p.m.
Saturday, Mar. 15, at Randolph-Macon at 12 p.m.

Men’s Lacrosse: Sunday, Mar. 16, home, against Franklin & Marshall,
130 p_m_ received from the center where she helped teens with

Women’s Lacrosse: Saturday, Mar. 15, home, against Nazareth, at 12

Men’s Tennis: Tuesday, Mar. 11 at Eastern Mennonite, TBA
Wednesday, Mar. 12, home, against Denison, at 3 p.m.
Thursday, Mar. 13, home, against Sewanee, at 3:30 p.m.
Sunday, Mar. 16, home, against Salisbury, at 9 a.m.
Sunday, Mar. 16, at Lynchburg, at 3 p.m.

Women’s Tennis: Monday, Mar. 10, home, against Swarthmore,

Track: Saturday, Mar. 15, W&L Invitational, TBA

p.m.

at 3:30 p.m.

Tuesday, Mar. 11, home, against Denison, at 4 p.m.
Wednesday, Mar. 12, Randolph-Macon, at 3:30 p.m.
Wednesday, Mar. 12 at Bridgewater, at 4:30 p.m.

Thursday, Mar. 13, home, against Sewanee, at 3 :30 p.m.
Sunday. Mar 16, home, against Salisbury, at 9 a.m.
Sunday, Mar. 16, at Lynchburg, 3 p.m.

 

The Phi mourns the death of
a generational icon. You'll be
missed, Mr. Rogers, a good
neighbor. -

Make a difference this
summer while having the .

Counselors and activity leaders needed to
work at summer camps for children and
adults with disabilities. Camps located near
Richmond and Roanoke, Virginia. Camp
season: early June-mid August.

www.va.easter—seals.or'g/richmond

time of your life.

Pisom by Mvrsncl Mnzzoxz

Visit our website at

or call (804) 633-9855.

This bracelet was a gift Amber Apedaca

drug and alcohol problems. She was wearing it
p when an underage drunk driver took her life.

Friends Don’t Let Friends Drive Drunk.

Usbnpumimtoiimnpavraim

: V
.*
3;,
, .
ax
.
4.
. s .
‘:44
9
I «Q .
 sﬁ,
»~ .
9
z ..
._~..
vs‘ _
_a

 

4

 

 

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

»W&L’s
Yreputation
wOm'esBoard

y BY CALEY ANDERSON
ASSISTANT NEWS EDITOR

In the modern scarce job market,
the importance of emphasizing to po-
T terrtial employers the value of a W&L
diploma grows ever larger. While
W&L remains one of the nation’s top
15 Liberal Arts schools, name recog-

, . nition of “Washington and Lee Uni-
versity” remains low.

This is the recent concern of
the W&L Board of Trustees. Ac-
cordingly, they have voted to cre-

1 ate a subcommittee on external re-
lations, which will report to the
Board of Trustees committee on de-
velopment and external relations.
The purpose of this committee, ac-
cording to Director of W&L Com-
munications Tom White, is to “ex-
amine whether W&L should engage
in a significant campaign to in-

hr crease its national recognition.”
The potential campaign would aim
at ensuring that potential students
for both the law and undergradu-
ate campus, human resources direc-
tors, and admissions officers at
graduate schools will be fully aware
of the high quality of the W&L aca-
demic program.

g} The subcommittee, whose re-
port to the Board of Trustees is ten-
tatively set for this coming Fall, will
most likely be comprised of 12-14
members, and will include a diverse

V range of individuals, such as Board
members, faculty representatives,
alumni representatives, and Uni-
versity Staff representatives. The

V chairman of the group will be Mr.

i John Cleghom, a member of the
Alumni Board of Directors an ex-
chair of the Communications Advi-
sory Board.

‘Y The subcommittee will attempt
to determine if it is necessary and/
or feasible for W&L to embark on
such a publicity campaign. If so,

.1, then the subcommittee should also
report on recommended methods for
accomplishing this, perhaps draw-
ing from means utilized by other
schools in similar efforts. The sub-

' committee will most likely have its
ﬁrst meeting in the Spring term, and
will do much of its work during the
Summer.

STEP INTO SPRING. Freshmen Emily Lang, Chris Lauderman
and Katie Van Veen relax on the Front Lawn Saturday
afternoon. Students took advantage of the warm temperatures
and unseasoriably clear weather during the latter part of the

A   NG-TUM

PHI

 

VOLUME CV, NO.XXlll
MONDAY, MARCH 17, 2003

T/ye rtudenti voice of Warbington and Ire Uiziverrin Trim 7897 (D On/me at p/Eu//u.edu

FUNANDSUNANDBOOKSP '

week by taking their studies outside. Rainy weather approaches
however, according to The Weather Channel. Warm
temperatures will remain, but students and faculty might want
to take their umbrellas with them to class.

ji-:13 BROOKS/ TheRir1g-tum Pin’

University

V BY MATTHEW McDERMOI'r
CONTRIBUTING EDITOR

Performing the work of admissions, ﬁnancial aid and
student life ofﬁces, Mimi Elrod directs the Summer Schol-
ars Program, a four-week program for rising high school
seniors.

“I am a committee of one,” said Elrod, who personally
reads all applications and determines acceptances.

Ar The Summer Scholars Program, which this year runs
from June 29 to July 25, allows college-bound students to
“develop their intellectual curiosity and prepare to meet
the academic and social challenges of college,” according
to its Web site.

W&L will

host race
conference

BY KYIE WAss
SENIOR STAFF WRITER

On March 20 and 21, Washington and Lee University’s
Chavis Memorial Committee will present its ﬁrst biennial
John Chavis Memorial Symposium. The Chavis Commit-
tee, a group created three years ago by the university in
order to develop a more inclusive campus, is hosting the
symposium both to honor John Chavis, a student of Lib-
erty Hall (Washington and Lee) in the late nineteenth cen-
tury and the first college educated African American in
the United States, as well as to examine important contem-
porary issues dealing with race and ethnic diversity.

The topic of this year’s symposium is Brown vs. Board
of Education, which will celebrate its ﬁﬁieth anniversary
next year. Professor Ted DeLaney, the associate professor
of History and a member of the Chavis Committee said
that they decided to celebrate it a year early in the hopes

 

that “if Washing- A ton and Lee did it
ﬁrst, we wouldbe able to get some
publicity on it.” The forum, which
was funded in large part by a
grant from John Ballantine,a 1968
graduate of Washington and
Lee, and his wife Caroline, will
host several _  speakers includ-
ing James L Patterson,
Constance Curry, DE ANEY M i c h a e l

Klarman, William Darity Jr. and Kara Miles Turner, all of
whom have studied and written on Brown vs. Board of
Education or current racial issues in the United States.

The anniversary of the Brown vs. Board of Education
is particularly meaningful for Washington and Lee be-
cause of the university’s historic connections to it. John
Davis, who graduated from Washington and Lee Univer-
sity in 1892 and Washington & Lee law school in 1895,
represented South Carolina in the case and argued on its
behalf in front of the Supreme Court. On the opposing
side‘, Judge J’ohr"t‘”Minor Wisdom who graduated from
Washington and Lee in1925 and served on the Judicial
Court of Appeals for the fifth Circuit, was responsible for
several historic rulings concerning segregation aﬁer the
Brown vs. Board of Education decision. Finally, it was
Justice Lewis Powell, who graduated from W&L in 1929
and W&L law school in 1931, that authored the decision
in the Regents of the University of California vs. Bakke
striking down quotas but stating that race could be used
as.a factor in deciding admission.

To prepare for the symposium, students gathered on
March 6"‘ in the Boatwright Room to discuss Patterson’s
book Brown vs. Board of Education: A Civil Rights Mile-
stone and Its Troubled Legacy and its modern day impli-
cations. In addition to the lectures from the guest speak-
ers, the symposium will include student led group discus

SEE RACE, PAGE 2

prepares for high school students

Interested high school juniors submit a transcript,
letter of recommendation and SAT or ACT scores.

Elrod, who worked for four years in the W&LAdrms-
sions Ofﬁce, uses “the same criteria” to select approxi-
mately 150 students.

“(The Summer Scholar’s) admissions rate is much
higher, and we are not as selective,” Elrod said.

All the same, W&L accepts 30 percent of former sum-
mer scholars, a higher percentage than the general body.

“About 60 percent (of scholars) apply (to W&L), one
half of those are accepted, and one half of those choose
to come,” Elrod said.

When here, students take three classes in one of eight
curricula, all taught by W&L professors, such as History

Professor Holt Merchant and Chemistry Professor Steve
Desjardins.

Desjardins will teach Chaos in Biological Systems
which is, according to the catalog, “an introduction to the
principles of chaotic dynamics and fractal geometry as
they apply to problems of biological interest.”

“The faculty are what makes this program success-
ful,” Elrod said. “They like teaching kids of that age, who
are waking up to a new way of thinking.”

The curricula are American politics, brain and behav-
ioral science, business and economics, environmental
analysis, humanities, journalism, law and society and pre-
medical studies.

Although students do not receive academic credit,

the program sends an evaluation of their performance to
the student, their high school guidance ofﬁce and the
W&L Admissions Office.

“Some professors become advocates of the students,
and can really help their admissions (wto W&L),” Elrod
said. “If a professor says, however, that he wouldn’t like
to teach that student in college, that’s the kiss of deat .”

As minors, summer scholars are subject to special
rules. They carmot ride in non-university cars or stay
out after 11:30 on weeknights or 12:30 on weekends.
Anyone caught using alcohol or drugs is immediately
sent home.

SEE SCHOLARS, PAGE 2

Meeting draws crowd

:Studen 3: pay attenti to the Lex roads

)4’

BY JED BROOKS
PHOTO EDITOR

We recently presented you with

a list of potential parking violations.
Today, we will provide you a list of
moving violations. I personally be-
came aware of a couple of these at
approximately 9:03pm on Sunday,
March 9, 2003. Ironically, this experi-
ence came only a few minutes after I
turned in last week’s article concem-
ing parking tickets. There are far more

V possible parking violations than mov-

ing inﬁactions, but the fines for the
latter are much more harsh. Here are
some highlights:

-Driving wrong way on a one-way
street —— $30.00 — I must see this oc-
cur at least once every two weeks.

There are several one-way streets in
booming Lexington, look for the
signs. V

-Earphones while driving ——
$25.00 — What? People do this? Just
turn up the bumpin’ ghetto bass in-
stead.

Failure to display license plates
—— $25.00 — What, are you a drug-rim-
ner? Be proud of who you are. Espe-
cially if you have a quality vanity
plate, like Virginia’s 180 (that’s an ac-
curate number according to VDMV)

-Failure to obey traffic lights --
$100.00 —This one will get you. I can
vouch for that. Don’t speed through
an already red light, either. That’s
especially dangerous. .

-Speeding when speed limit 55

MPH or 65 MPH——$5.00 perMPH—'

BAD BOYS. A Lexington police car roams the mean streets of Lexington.

This adds up real fast. Do the math.
Speeding when speed limit not

55‘MPH or 65 MPH—— $3.00 perMPH

— $3.00 may sound like a small amount

of money, but when multiplied, it
quickly grows.

sEE TICKETS, PAGE 2

    

JED BROOKS / The Ring-I/«In Pbi

BY MEGAN MORGAN
SENIOR STAFF WRITER

This year, the sixth annual Na-
tional Symposium on Theater in
Academe was hosted by Washing-
ton and Lee University this past
weekend, March 13-15. Those par-
ticipants in the symposium were
treated to many events throughout
the weekend, including a three-
course dinner on Friday evening.

According to Washington and
Lee Associate Professor of Ro-
mance Languages Dominica
Radulescu, who is also the confer-
ence director, the “aim of this sym-
posium is to gather University and
College teachers and scholars who
have been involved in theater pro-
ductions with their students, who

have a particular interest in combin-
ing the teaching of language and lit-
erature with acting or directing, or
who have a particular interest in the
tension between theoretical and prac-
tical aspects of the dramatic genre.”
as posted on the Symposium’s
website. Sarah Bennell, of Washing-
ton and Lee, served as the Adrninis—
trative Director to Radulescu.

The conference began on
Thursday morning at nine in the
morning with the official opening of
the symposium, which included brief
speeches by Professor Joseph
Martinez, chair of the Theater Depart-
ment Professor Radulescu. Further
throughout Thursday, participants
could attend sessions about per

SEE THEATRE, PAGE 2

 

.lAME;S -a. l,F§YEii_.Ft§z :..rx':w
\"J  in  u:~..~m‘asi".rv

PAGE 2 i  
1‘; ""

 

<1-

 

SCHOLARS, FROM PAGE 1

Students are otherwise free.

“They can walk to Wal-mart, if
they want,” Elrod said.

Virginia Military Institute cadets,
however, are restricted from the W&L
campus.

“We have to take care of our
girls,” Director of Security Mike
Young said. “In past years we have
had cadets try to come up to some of
the female summer scholars.”

“Security is very helpﬁil in keep-
ing away people who aren’t wanted
here,” Elrod agreed.

Scholars live in campus dorrnito-
ries, and are attended by summer
scholar counselors, all of whom are
W&L undergraduate students.

if '::i2.lt:<c-1i

W8

 

high school wonderland

.il\\l()f\.
ACTION. Summer scholars of old work with cameras during a journalism class.

 

“Perhaps because of the state of counselorships.” There are 15 posi-
the economy,” Elrod said, “there are
currently 30 students applying for 11

tions in all, to permit a 10-to-one stu-
dent-to-counselor ratio.

RACE, FROM PAGE 1

sions and a presentation of the documentary, “The
Intolerable Burden,” produced by Constance Curry,
which examines the failure of public education and the
fast-track to prison for young black men. Prof. DeLaney
and the other organizers of the event hope that as the
symposium draws to a close, discussion will range past
the Bakke case to examine contemporary issues such
as challenges to the University of Michigan’s affirrna-
tive action program and the decision of Virginia Tech’s
Board of Visitors to prohibit the school from taking
race, gender or ethnicity into consideration during the
admissions process.

TICKETS, FROM PAGE 1

These fines are compounded with other charges total-
ing $47.00. When you tack on the additional pain of
having to tell parents (and in my case the campus,
though that was a personal choice) of your stupidity,
the cost is almost as priceless as a MasterCard mo-
ment. Again, the police do not target students; they
are just after bad drivers. These are only a few of the
moving violations. For more information, contact the
Police Department, or get pulled over for a copy. I
promise this was a momentary lapse, please don’t be
afraid to ride with me. I promise you will be safe from
now on. ‘

Happy belated b-day,
Megan Morgan!!!

Phi love, KJH, BTK,
CCG, EEJ, JEB!

 

THEATRE, FROM PAGE 1

forming in a foreign language, with speakers from The
College of William and Mary, North Georgia College
and State University, and the University of Dayton. On
Friday, Washington and Lee’s Professor Eric Wilson
organized and chaired a session entitled, “Re-locating
the Renaissance Stage,” which included speakers from
both Penn State University and the University of Penn-
sylvania. Other activities on Friday included a German
play performance directed by Roger Crockett of Wash-
ington and Lee, and a Workshop for Theatrical Expres-
sion, followed by a three-course dinner in the Univer-
sity Center.

Following sessions discussing theater and poli-
tics on Saturday morning, and a seminar called
“Techniques of production and Un-canonical Ways
of Dealing with the Theatrical Canon,” the sympo-
sium culminated with two plays at the Blackfriars
Theater in Staunton — Caesar, and Knight of the
Burning Pestle.

Participants in the Theater Symposium were required
to give $70 to register by February 28, which included
continental breakfast, coffee and refreshments through-
out the conference, and the three-course dinner on Friday
evening.

According to the National Symposium on Theater’s
website, any teachers and scholars were invited submit
papers and multimedia materials that do not exceed
twenty minutes of presentation time. Suggested topics
included the state of theater in the academe, theater
and gender, women and the stage, Shakespeare, the-
ater and the poetic imagination, and discussions on
performing in a foreign language. Any of these presen-
tations had to be approved by sending in an abstract
by December 1, 2002.

But it wasn’t a bar for long. The local Police Department shut down Swift;/’s
Lounge for illegal drug activity. instead of condemning the property, they
contacted their local community coalition. The coalition brought in contractors
who donated their time to renovate the building. And the doctor got his hospital
to volunteer, services for Families that need drug counseling.

lt’s funny what happens when we all work together. Communities become a better
place for everyone,‘ especially our children. Community coalitions bring
other community groups together. And getting involved is easy. Just contact
www.helpyourcommunity.org or 1 -877-KIDS-313. They’ll tell you how your group
can help. You’ll be surprised how much you can accomplish.

‘lou get More WHEN you get toaeti-ier.

Office of National Drug Control Policy

 

Tim McGuire will speak

In association with the 35th Institute on the Ethics in

Journalism. The Knight Program in Journalism Ethics is

onetspecial emphasis of the University’s Department of
Journalism and Mass Communications. The public‘ lec-
ture, which will be conducted by Tim. J. McGuire, is the
centerpiece of a two-day symposium that involves stu-
dents and practising journalists from wide geographic
and diverse professional areas. The John S. and James L
Knight Foundation awarded an endowed professorship
to Washington and Lee in 1996. D1‘. Louis W. Hodges has
held the Knight Chair since its establishment. To assure
long—term ﬁnancial support for distinctive programs in jour-
nalism education, the Foundation has since 1990 been
frmding professional chairs at major‘ universities in the
United States.

The lecture will be at 4:30 pm on March 28th, in room
327 of the C-School. A

Russian department presents play

The Russian Department will be presenting a play
entitled, “Christmas Eve,” next Wednesday, March 26th,
in the duPont auditorium,

The play, which will be free to attend, is based on the
story written by Nikolai Gogol and is directed by Anna
Rodionova and her husband Sergei Kokovkjn, both promi-
nent directors from Moscow, Russia.

James Chi/dress will speak

Prominent ethicist James F. Childress, a recipient of
Virginia’s highest academic award, will deliver a talk, “Bio-
ethics and Public Policy: Controversies about Human Clon-
ing and Stem Cell Research,” on Friday, March 21, at 4:30
pm. in Room A114 of Washington and Lee University’s
Science Center.

The event, which is free and open to the public, is
sponsored by W&L’s Society and the Professions Pro-
gram in Ethics. Its goal is to raise in the minds of under-
graduates the critical questions of social responsibility
inherent in their lives as citizens and professionals.

Top Bush legal counsel will speak

The Honorable Alberto R. Gonzales, President Bush’s
personal counsel and a former justice of the Texas Su-
preme Court, will give the inaugural address at Washing-
ton and Lee University’s First Annual Powell Lecture on
March 3 l .

The speech, which is open to the public without
charge, is at 11:30 am. Monday, March 31, in the Moot
Courtroom at W&L’s School of Law.

MONDAY, MARCH 17, 2003

The Hon. Mr. Gonzales currently serves as n0n-gov- .7

emmental counsel for President, and it is speculated that
he is a top choice should it become necessary for the
President to nominate a new Supreme Court justice.

Paulina Kewes will speak

Professor Paulina Kewes of the University of Wales
in Aberystwyth, will give a lecture on 18"‘ century En-
gland at Washington and Lee University Monday March’!
24, at 7:30 p.m. in Northen Auditorium.

Kewes’ talk, “The Staging of History in Early Modern j
England,” is free and open to the public.

Kewes holds a doctorate from Oxford University. She
was elected a Fellow of the National Humanities Center at
North Carolina’s Research Triangle Park, for the current‘
academic year.

She is a member of the executive committee of the’

»

British Society for Eighteenth Century Studies and a mem- '7

ber of the editorial board for Postgraduate English, a jour- j
nal published by the University of Durham, England.

Her research, publication and teaching interests in-'
clude the Renaissance, the Restoration, Shakespeare, ‘

Dryden, and eighteenth century literature, especially drama. _‘Y‘

Lee Chapel receives $5,000 award

The Lee Chapel Museum at Washington and Lee Uni-"
versity received a $5,000 award on Thursday (March 13);
from the Lee-Jackson Education Foundation for the;
museum’s expanding and student—oriented elementary edu-
cation programs.

?

Lucie Holland, a member of the foundation’s Board of "7

Directors, learned of the W&L museum’s education programs ,_
— and the work helping build them by then W&L senior Amanda j
Adams - in an article last year in the W&LAlumni Magazine. I

Holland, of Alexandria, subsequently brought the;
W&L museum program to the attention of the Lee-Jack-47
son Education F oundation’s board, which recently voted:
to award the Lee Chapel Museum a $5,000 grant for its?
education outreach efforts. 3

1 Lexington

Weekly

 

Forecast
Monday- Partly Cloudy, 74/45

Tuesday- Showers, 69/52
Wednesday- Thunderstorms 7 1/52
Thursday- Partly Cloudy- 68/42

F riday- Partly Cloudy- 64/40 =.
Saturday- Partly Cloudy-59/36
Sunday- Partly'Cloudy- 63/37

The Cadet Program Board
is proud to present

at McGee B  

March 28, 33 at 8 p.m.

in Cameron Hall
Lexington, VA

7

i Y

MARCH 17 200

  Philip

Y BY lxim Ro\w._\x1>

C.\\'ALlER DAILY (U, VlR(}ll\'I.\)

( U - W I R E )
CHARLOTTESVILLE, V‘ . - Philip
Morris USA recently transferred their
corporate headquarters from New
York City to Richmond, a move that
will bring Virginia a11 estimated $300

‘Y million in new investments. Gov. Mark

R. Warner and Michael Szymanczyk,
Philip Morris USA chairman and chief
executive oﬂicer, announced March
4 the company’s intention to consoli-

7 date its center of operations with the

Richmond manufacturing plant,
which currently employs 6,800 Virgin-
ians.

“Virginia has been courting Philip

'Morris for years,” said Rick

Richardson, director of communica-
tions and promotions for the Virginia
Economic Development Partnership.

Y

aw NEWS g%_._}

PA

orris relocates headquarters to Virginia

“From our viewpoint, it was a fairly
logical move for them.” Philip Morris
USA is a subsidiary of the Altria
Group Inc., the world’s leading ciga-
rette producer, controlling nearly 50
percent of the tobacco market.

“We are very pleased with the
reception we’ve received from the
greater Richmond community,” said
Jennifer Golisch, Philip Morris USA
spokesperson. “In terms of looking
to the future, we are excited about in-
tegrating our workforce.” Because
Richmond is already home to the
company’s largest manufacturing fa-
cility, executives travel weekly be-
tween Virginia and New York,
Richardson said. A

“It’s a huge shot in the arm for
this community,” Warner spokesper-
son Kevin Hall said. Warner “is ex-
cited about what it means for this
area.”

However, other members of the
community are not so thrilled about
the decision.

“There is a negative side to this
whole business,” said University
Medical Prof. Dudley Rochester, vol-
unteer and former president of the
American Lung Association of Vir-
ginia. “For the city and state to be
very proud of themselves gives a bad
image.”

A retired pulmonary physician,
Rochester is a member of the Virginia
Tobacco Settlement Foundation,
which is in charge of the anti-smok-
ing activities funded by rewards of
the 1998 Master Settlement Agree-
ment.

Signed by the nation’s four larg-
est tobacco companies and 46 states,
the agreement instituted compensa-
tory payments of more than $200 bil-
lion during the next 25 years. Roch-

ester added that he thinks it is wrong
for only 10 percent of Virginia’s share
of the settlement to be used for anti-
smoking purposes.

Negotiations for Philip Morris
USA’s relocation began last fall. Un-
der the ﬁnal agreement, Philip Morris
USA qualiﬁes for a $25 million perfor-
mance-based Virginia Investment Part-
nership grant as well as a $3 million
Govemor’s Opportunity Fund grant to
renovate existing facilities in Richmond
and Henrico County. In addition,
Philip Morris is eligible for tax credits
of about $8 million. Hall said the deci-
sion to relocate was reached in part
because Warner and Szymanczyk
served on the Virginia Board for Inde-
pendent Colleges together.

“Virginia is known for being busi-
ness-friendly when it comes to taxes
and regulation,” Hall said. “It’s a
slower, more affordable community to

live and work in” than New York City.

The same day Warner made the
announcement, his office issued a
press release listing his appointments
to the Tobacco Settlement Financing
Corporation, a new mechanism cre-
ated to help secure future payments
of Virginia’s share of the Master
SettlementAgreement.

Proceeds from the settlement are
being used to fund economic devel-
opment, aid farmers with new skills and
machinery, as well as extend the state’s
high—speed Internet infrastructure.

“It’s the chance of a lifetime for
those regions to really work in a uni-
ﬁed way to market themselves so there
could be some growth,” Hall said. Hall
acknowledged the coincidence that

.the appointments were announced

the same day as Philip Morris USA’s
decision to relocate its headquarters
to Richmond. “I can see a little bit of

irony there,” he said. The company
expects to finish the transition pro-
cess by June, creating 450 new jobs
with annual employee salaries rang-
ing from $90,000 to $133,000. The
health risks associated with smoking
overshadow the beneﬁts of housing
the headquarters of a Fortune 500
company, said Donna Reynolds, di-
rector of community relations for the
American Lung Association of Vir-
ginia. “None of the health data has
changed in terms of how tobacco af-
fects Virginians,” Reynolds said.

“There’s still going to be a lot of
work to do.” In response to griev-
ances with tobacco companies,
Richardson stressed the economic ad-
vantages, notably the increased state
revenue from personal income taxes.

“It’s a legal business,” he said.
“If it’s going to exist, why don’t we
get the beneﬁts?”

BRETT T. KlR\\’/AN
OPINIONS EDITOR

EMAR; IxIRWANB@WIiJB)U +
MONDAY, MARCH 17, 2003

THE RING-TUM PEI

PINIONS

 

PAGE 4

’i'i-§E:lh;\R3-'isi.R:l’i»R
T AFF EDITORIAL
“Cranes for Peace” poor choice by dept.

Few students venture all the way to the
Red House, but those who were unlucky enough
to stop by in the last week or so were treated
to more than Chinese and Japanese.

The Japanese Department has seen ﬁt
to call on students to fold origami cranes
for peace. On face, this act is harmless
enough, but one soon wonders why Profes-
sors Ikeda and Ujie think that it is appropri-
ate to mix controversial politics with language
study. Each teacher may have his stance on
the upcoming war against Saddam, but a
more tactful approach would have been to
share these in private conversations with
students and colleagues, not by lending the
weight of the department to unmistakably po-
litical opinions.

It cannot be denied that students in any and
every class at W&L, save the hard sciences,
are subject to some level of exposure to the
professor’s political leanings. By virtue of be-
ing human, professors and students alike are
unable to prevent their biases and prejudices
from tainting their scholarship.

Nonetheless, it is wrong and ill-considered
for any department, let alone one whose ex-
pertise is so far removed from the issue at hand,
to display its opinions so publicly. Moreover,
these opinions were not just shared with the
W&L community, but support for them was
actively pressed on students by asking them to
participate in the activity.

No one would question the inappropriate-
ness of the French Department asking students
to bake crepes in support of abortion or the
Music Department exhorting students to play
the kazoo in favor of the death penalty. Rather,
the purpose of a department’s advocacy on
campus is to educate students, both majors and
non-maj ors, about the value and content of the
subject being taught.

Campuses such as Berkeley, Oberlin and
Brown are infamous for the terribly biased and
partial education their students receive. W&L
has done well no to join their ranks.

Although we are not accusing the Japa-
nese Department of participating in this type of
acaderriic irresponsibility, we seriously question
the wisdom of mounting a politiclly-charged
campaign in opposition to the liberation of Iraq
on behalf of the Department.

te of the Week

 

“France and I have always been ﬁiends of the
United States.”

~French President Jacques Chirac
on“60 Minutes,” supposedly ina joking mood

Motley crw seeks De nod

With the Presidential primaries
merely a year away, candidates have
been lining up to gain a shot at bat-
tling President Bush in the fall. As an
exercise in self-ﬂagellation, your
humble columnist has provided a pre-
liminary proﬁle of the Democratic
contenders. Here are the (mostly) se-
rious ones, in alphabetical order:

Howard Dean (Ex-Govemor, Vt.):
This doctor-tumed-governor wants to
bring Vermont values to the
heartland. . .enough said. However,
Gov. Dean does walk away with the
Joe Biden Award for Presidential Pla-
giarism for stealing his slogan—
“Dean for America”—from NBC’s
“The West Wing.”

John Edwards (U.S. Senator,
N.C.): Despite Edwards’ once-fawn-
ing media coverage, the Democratic
National Committee cannot hide the
fact that North Carolina’s junior sena-
tor is just ﬁve years removed from his
career as a trial lawyer of the spilled-
coffee variety, countless John F.
Kennedy comparisons aside.

Dick Gephardt (U .S. Congress-
man, Mo.): The former House Minor-
ity Leader thinks that failing four con-
secutive times to regain a majority in
the House of Representatives quali-
ﬁes him to run the greatest country in
the world. As a bonus, if he could, he
would have his lips sewed to Big
Labor’s butt.

Bob Graham (U .S. Senator, Fla.):
The conservative (for a Democrat)
senior Senator from the Elian State
could be a formidable candidate, how-
ever, his support of the filibuster
blocking Hispanic judicial nominee
Miguel Estrada will not help him with
the nation’s fastest-growing voting
block. Additionally, open-heart sur-
gery is not usually a particularly aus-
picious way to begin a campaign.

John Keny (U .S. Senator, Mass.):

   
 

, rnmen'n1.tom, dithgephnrdt2004.t'nm, /eutihhur, eduInrdt..rerm nnjoe2004.tom,

  
   

photo-/eonttantinmtom, rzewrJahoo.toIz1, grahnm.m1ate.gov

AIMIN’ AT W. (l-r) Carol Moseley Braun, Howard Dean, Dick Gephardt, Dennis
Kucinich,]ohn Edwards,]oe Lieberman, Al Sharpton,]ohn Kerry, Bob Graham

Dennis Kucinich (U.S. Con-
gressman, Ohio): Winning the
“Peace at any Price” award for anti-
war cowardice, Rep. Kucinich aims to
be the most liberal candidate in the
ﬁeld. Of note, this candidate has the
distinction of being Mayor of Cleve-
land when the city, for the first time in
American history, defaulted on its
loans.

Joe Lieberman (U.S. Senator,
Conn.): The “ghost of elections
past” has entered the 2004 fray.
Sen. Lieberman provides proof that

Despite his combina- the D e mo c rat s
tion of Michael   don ’ t b ury th eir
Dukakis’s liberalism " wounde (1, even
and Al Gore’s per- IOHN HEATH  though they

sonality, Sen. Kerry

appears to some to be the early
frontrunner. You can’t count Sen.
Kerry (or his half-billion dollar check-
ing account) out, but it’s doubtful
that, having failed to be duped in
1988, America will fall for a Massa-
chusetts liberal.

should. The jury’s
still out on whether or not he has
the staying power to last.

Carol Moseley Braun (Ex-U.S.
Senator, Ill.): Never heard of Carol
Moseley Braun‘? Don’t worry, neither
has the rest of America. Sen. Moseley
Braun hangs her Presidential hat on

the fact that she was the first black
woman to be elected to the United
States Senate. She doesn’t mention
that she was the first black woman to
be booted from the United States Sen-
ate—the usually Dem-happy voters
of Illinois threw her out after just one
scandal—plagued term.

Rev. Al Sharpton (Activist,
Aggravator): Whether protesting mili-
tary preparedness in Puerto Rico or
slamming the media for its harsh treat-
ment of family man Michael Jackson,
Sharpton is on the trail, tackling the
issues important to every American.
Of note, he still has not apologized for
inciting arson at Freddie’s Fashion
Mart, resulting in the death of seven,
or falsely accusing six law enforcement
oﬁicers of Wappingers Falls, N.Y. of
the rape of Tawana Brawley, even
though Brawley has recanted.

In summary, to quote Jim
Hi ghtower, “If the gods had meant for
us to vote, they would have given us
candidates.”

Editor in chief Katie J. Howell
Opinions Editor BrettT.Kirwan
Arts & Life Editor Catherine Guy
Sports Editor Erin Julius
Photo Editor Jeb Brooks
Asst. News Editor CaleyAnderson
Photographers Tallie Jamison
TheresaAnderson
Copy Editor Donny Banks

Business Manager Thomas Worthy
Circulation Director Henry Grimball
Advertising Assistant McQueen Calvert

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee Univer-
sity, Lexington, Virginia. The Washington and Lee Publi-
cations Board elects the Editor in chief, but The Ring-tum
Phi is otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible submis-
sions and letters. All submissions must be e-mailed to
phi@wlu.edu or in the University Center mailbox by 5
p.m. Friday to appear in the following week’s edition. The
Ring-tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for con-
tent and length. Letters and columns do not necessarily re-
ﬂect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Ad-
vertising does not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi
or its staff. This newspaper observes current court deﬁni-
tions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Mailing Address: University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Street Address: 31 Washington Street
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Fax: (540) 462-4059
Email: phi@wlu.edu
http://phi.wlu.edu

Annual Subscription Rate: $30

Letters to the Editor

Homosexual activity is a sin

Dear Editor,

I’ve read the continuing articles and dialogue about
homosexuality with great interest. To this point, I’ve ab-
stained from commenting because I’ve felt that there were
many more pressing issues that the Christian community
needed to deal with and discuss. However, the sheer vol-
ume of erroneous claims that have been made on the be-
half of and ﬂung in the face of Christianity has compelled
me to say something.

Our culture has elevated the value of tolerance above
all others. Consequently, this value system has polluted
the church and our conceptions of God. I feel that if we are
to be faithful to God’s revelation of Himself to us in the
person of Jesus Christ through the Bible, we must come to
the conclusion that he is certainly tolerant of people, but
never of their sin. As a Christian, I feel that the best we can
do is to ﬁrst recognize our own shortcomings and faults.
For if we presume to be better than another, we have en-
tirely missed the point and message of Christ.

From this foundation of realizing that we are all equally
depraved, our only response can be to love one another,
being mindful of our shared stumblings. However, I feel
that like tolerance, love is a value that has been tainted
and skewed by our society. Love is not synonymous with
wide-reaching, blanket tolerance. Christian love is to say
that I want and desperately desire what is best for you. It
means not allowing one another to remain in the gutter in
our shortcomings, but doing our best to liﬁ one another
into the ﬁlll life God commands us to.

Granted, there seems to be much recent debate, even
within the Church about homosexuality, but I feel that if
we are to read the Bible for what it says, we must conclude
that homosexual activity must be seen as sin, not to be
condoned.

TALKBACK: 

 

“Robert, as in R.E. Lee.”

-Beniie Campbell ‘05
-Tirn Smith ‘O4

‘ “Detely NOT
Asher Sirncoe.’

However, I feel that the Christian community has
done a pitifully poor job of seeing all sin as equal. The
only way that Christians ought to come together is to
say that we are all broken—me in my pious pride, you in
your dishonesty, and our brother in his homosexuality.
The reality is that we are all sinners, desperately broken.
We must realize that we all stand equally condemned in
God’s judgment.

However, we also must realize that we all stand un-
der Christ’s grace, more loved than we ever dare hope. If
I dare say that a homosexual is somehow more condemned
for his or her sin than I am for mine, I have lost sight of
the truth of Christ’s message. Our being made right with
God is not dependant on what we do or do not do (read:
lie, pray, cheat, go to church, be drunk, be homosexual
etc.), but rather only on what Jesus Christ has done on
the cross.

We must love one another as and because Christ ﬁrst
loved us. We must walk with one another, being honest
about our brokenness, knowing that we are in desperate
need of help. Jesus Christ does not ask that we ﬁrst ﬁx
ourselves before coming to Him, rather, He comes to us
exactly where we are.

Sincerely,
Andy Mendrala ‘04

Bible clear on condemnation of gays

Dear Editor,

As a Bible-believing Christian, I take exception to
your article “Gays not condemned” in the March 10 is-
sue of The Ring-tum Phi. I did not get the pamphlet in
question, but I can respond to the arguments. Pastror
Orvadal does indeed have “a direct pipeline to God that

SEE LETTERS, PAGE 5

“Well, that deends om
husband’s name.”

-Nancy Francis ‘04

  

 ﬁrstchild?  

“Samwise Gamgee.”
-Cam Smith ‘04

Alaskan oil
not answer
to energy dilemma

Reports in the New York Times this week have
released the information from a study conducted by
the National Academy of Sciences concerning oil drill-
ing in Alaska. These study results have come at a very
appropriate time as the Senate is looking to vote on
this very issue very soon. This vote is expected to be
much closer than last year ’s vote of 54-46 that rejected
the drilling.

However, with war to begin in a matter of days
rather than weeks, the Bush administration is no
doubt trying to end
dependence on
Iraqi oil. As Senator
Lisa Murkowski, an
Alaska Republican

’””LI:I?~E6i: CENTER
NICR RAMSEY ‘03

who is a leading proponent of the drilling, stated '

“We’re paying Saddam Hussein billions of dollars

for gasoline and aviation fuel to send our aircraft’

carriers and troops to ﬁght him. That logic does
not make sense as an energy policy.”

However, this type of thinking is ﬂawed as well.
Now that we’re planning on going to war with Iraq, it
is suddenly immoral to give the Iraqi leader our money.
Forget the fact that if Iraq and al-Queda are linked,
then we’ve been ﬁinding terrorism with those SUVs
for years.

The real way to think is not ﬁnding new oil in
Alaska, but ﬁnding and developing new energy
sources. We should also be more responsible in the
way we use current energy supplies. This same Sen-
ate last year defeated a bill that would have forced
automobile makers to make their SUVs more fuel-
efﬁcient.

That alone could have reduced need by one mil-
lion barrels daily, which is more than the Alaskan
refuge could produce in the same amount of time at
its peak.

However, this is unlikely to slow the supporters of .

the idea in Congress. What better friend to have in
Congress if you can stand to make money from oil than
George W. Bush? Merely ask the Vice President about
Halliburton’s oily cash box.

The truth is that many Republicans in Congress
are looking to drill now in the Alaskan refuge’s coastal
plain. This is a l.5 million—acre wilderness that cannot
be drilled in without authorization by lawmakers in the

District. Just as a reference, 1.5 million-acres is twice ‘

the size of Rhode Island.

So, why is this drilling such a problem? Well, the
study showed that the effects of the drilling have not
been the most favorable on the Alaskan wilderness. In
Alaska’s freeze and thaw temperatures a tire mark can
actually become a near permanent geological change
to the landscape.

Aside from this, the seismic activities of the oil
wells have aﬁected the paths of whales on the Alaskan
coastline. These whales are very important to the na-
tive communities of the state. They have been far less
successful in hunting them due to this problem.

The whales have not been the only animals af-
fected by this activity over the past three and a half
decades. Female caribou are not having as many calves
and there has also been a drop in the birth rate of many
bird species, including snow geese, eiders and some
shorebirds.

Problems are already evident as physical evidence A

still remains from the ﬁrst Alaskan drilling that occurred
at Prudhoe Bay in 1968. The study also indicates that
while oil companies’ techniques have greatly improved
since that time, they are still not safe enough to pre-
vent drilling from having a negative effect on the land.

There is also no state or federal law requiring oil
companies to remove leftover equipment, gravel beds
and other vestiges of exploited wells. The Academy’s

panel also noted that companies would have to have a ‘

strong incentive from the government if they were to
spend the more than $6 billion to restore such a remote
region.

It will again be up to the Senate to show the Bush ,

administration that conservation is the solution. It is
clear that the White House is looking to expand do-
mestic oil excavation.

Again, the Times reports that Bush’s Secretary of
the Interior, Gale Norton has been trying to open 8.8
rriillion acres in the northwest corner of the National
Petroleum Reserve, while seeking to ease important
environmental protections imposed by the Clinton ad-
ministration. Norton’s offices are also planning to lease
nearly 10 million more acres in the Beaufort Sea in North-
emAlaska.

I’m still waiting for the hydrogen fuel cell cars prom-
ised in the State of the Union address. Meanwhile, the

President is content to continue stabbing holes in our ,

nation’s wilderness to squeeze out every drop of the
black gold.

 
  

 
   

“PLEDGE.”
-GrantKrapf‘06

 

 

 
 

  

MONDAY, MARCH 17, 2003

iii» -7
.; 3

OtiliiioNs

 
   

PAGE 5

  ‘Tasteless campaign poster
‘brings porn to campus

it

Since EC election time is in full
swing, no doubt most students have
noticed the signs blanketing campus
exhorting students to vote for one
“Bukkake.” In fact, there is no stu-
dent narned Bukkake, let alone one so
named running for an EC position.
However, the truth of what is no doubt
a fraternity prank goes much deeper
than that simple confusion.

The trouble began when I first
noticed the posters adorned with a
picture of Che Guerva, a murderous
communist revolutionary and, natu-
rally, a darling of the Left. Perhaps he
is so mindlessly adored by college lib-
erals because of all that he achieved
while a sufferer of terrible asthma, but
Guerva’s participation in the Cuban

' revolution brought to power a mur-

derous government that has impris-
oned the island for over 40 years.
Tragically, Guerva, and the ide-
ology his misguided revolution rep-
resents, have not yet been tried and
condemned on the world stage like
Nazism was. Communism has killed
more people in this century than all
the wars in human history combined,
but dewy-eyed ideologues continue
to march in its support and cluelessly

LETTERS, FROM PAGE 4

tells him (and all Christians) exactly what the Almighty
hates and how (H)e will judge people. It’s called the Bible,
a.k.a. the Word of God. Your dismissal of “a book written
hundreds of years after the time of Christ” completely
undermines your argument and makes you appear to be
mocking the Christian religion. You may not believe in the
Bible, but many people do take the Scripture seriously
and follow what it says, something you appear to be dis-
regarding.

Your interpretation of the Christian view on homo-
sexuality is also completely wrong. You say we use a “one-
sided interpretation that merely condemns a group of
people” and “defend(s our) hatred ofothers.” First of all, I
don’t know how there would be another way of reading
“Do not lie with a man as one lies with a woman; that is
detestable,” Leviticus 18 :22, as a condemnation of homo-
sexuality, but perhaps you can twist it somehow.

Anyway, my main point is that Christians don’t hate
homosexuals as people, we only hate their acts. “Love the
sinner, hate the sin” is a phrase I often hear to describe
this. Even in your quotation of the Wisconsin pamphlet, it
says “God hates such (homosexual) acts and judges them
severely.” You have twisted his words around to say the
pastor hates gays, which is not correct.

Homosexuality is just one of a long list of sins that
the Bible condenms and it is our right to believe the Bible
as long as our beliefs don’t take away the rights of others.
I understand that there are a few people that have physi-
cally attacked or killed gays in the name of God, but, make
no mistake, these radical minorities do not represent the
Christian attitude toward homosexuals: We love our neigh-
bors as ourselves, but that does not entail accepting all
their actions and compromising our own morals.

Sincerely,
Alexa Moutevelis ‘O6

struction.” I accuse eighteen months of national cultiva-
tion of fear, and subtle enforcement of misunderstanding
of Islamic mentality and motive, by a part of Jewry sup-
porting Zionism, with leading us along the road feared
and foreseen by Founder Washington in his Farewell
Address §33 et. seq. (I consider Jews like Masons, my
freres.)

GW.’s words do apply and are apropos unless we
decide Israel is fuzzy and warm and harmless, yet without
deﬁcit of behavior. Rather, I submit evidence of tactics
(“How Israel Builds its F iﬁh Colunm,” Christian Science
Monitor, May 22, 2002) (which I shall prove can be and
have been used contre nous) that totally qualify as for-
eign and un-American.

“By being uncomfortably tested,” I spoke in my High
School Valedictory address, “America may well regain
some of the ﬁre she may have lost since the days of Tho-
mas Paine...” Next year I was a W&L freshman, one of
three awardees of books by Phi Beta Kappa. In ’57, I aban-
doned academics, wishing to be in Omaha, yet ‘landed’ an
MP, then infantryman, in the canebrakes along the
Cumberland River. My later attempts toward a self-willed
college diplomas failed, but not entirely do the causes of
the failure appear. [Will-power, totally unlike Hitler, I ut-
terly condemn]

I am into, and heartily commend, Christian Science,
and I do not admit that I have ever lcnowingly admitted or
exhibited ‘illness’ of ‘mind,’ as if Mind could be touched
by non-mind, alias (sic) matter.

I am more sympathetic to Islamic points of view than
by “poor, pale, Protestant” reaction. This ﬁnal phrase came
to my mouth at Rhodes College in 1962, before return to
Lexington and argument with a parent caused my civil
detention and, while Kennedy pranced around Europe,
exposure to Virginia institutions inhabited by
unsophisticates which I have learned to love, approach,
and appreciate for humarmess. Saturday-night-at-Kroger’s
featured evidence of a small town and small university
student-body control. Die Gedanken sindfrei.

wear T—shirts bearing the visages of Ramsey responds: Sincerely,
hurnanity’s most fearsome killers. What I take exception to in your response is your use Jack “Jackie” Lackmann, ’58, ’63, and ‘64
‘V Guerva seems to occupy an es- of the words “we” and “our” describing Christians and Lexington, VA
pecially romantic place in the hearts the Christian beliefs. You seem to assume thatI am not a I I _
of these Stalinist hippies because of Christian. The truth is, I am. I have Christian beliefs. The    
his association with the much-misun- fact that mine greatly differ from yours illustrates how
I‘ derstood island of Cuba. The cam— wrong you are when you say that my “interpretation of DearEditor,

paign poster brings into sharp relief a
depressing lapse in students’ knowl-
edge of history. And, if students at
W&L do know enough not to plaster
Guerva’s face on poster, what should
one think about the average Ameri-
can youth?

If only the problems with the
poster began and ended with the
paean to Guerva, but, as I mentioned
before, there is no student named
Bukkake. What is it that these post-
ers now polluting our fair campus like
so much neon confetti are really ad-
vertising? Brace yourself.

Bukkake is the

   

CAsrRo’s RIGHT-HAND KILLER. Che
Guerva, an instrumental member of
Castro’s murderous regime and central
to many other bloody South American

and degenerate sense of humor. It is
sad that a purportedly mature and so-
phisticated W&L student would ﬁnd
such trash amusing.

But what of it? What are the ef-
fects this campaign for perversion
will have on our campus commu-
nity? For starters, the Admissions

Ofﬁce won’t be hear-

Pl~l0’IO COURTESY lniigeo/ire
revolutions, was prominently featured
on many “Bukkake” campaign posters,

but the juvenile tastelessness only began
there.

posters indicate a misunderstanding
of the gravity of EC elections. Our
races are not merely the popularity
contests of high school, but decide
which students will oversee a nearly
half-million dollar activities ﬁmd and
have the authority to expel their fel-
low students. When student self-
governance is treated with such a

the Christian view on homosexuality is also completely
wrong. ” People like yourself and Pastor Orvadal make
these statements as if your words are the only way Chris-
tians think.

And how can you say I ’m mocking Christian scrip-
ture? I think I made it clear that I feel the love Christ has
for mankind. To make the sacriﬁce he did is the purest and
most selfless love in recorded history. As for looking at
Leviticus 18:22, many religious scholars believe that this
verse comes from the improper translation of “male bed. "
This book has been translated more times than we

will ever know. And I just will not believe that my God
condemns people based on their sexual preference when
homosexuality occurs so often in other species in nature.
You have your beliefs, and I respect that. I have my
own. I just find the attitudes you and the Wisconsin Chris-

I was shocked!

Tell everybody to wear sunbonnets and hats plus
use sunscreen and do not get sun tans.

This is the third week after my type I skin cancer
operation between my nose and lip by dermatologist
Dr. Pauli. He said it would heal and there would be no
bad effects, and some people have these spots all over
their faces. My symptom was simply a less than l/8”
scabbed over growth that scabbed over 10 times in the
last year or so.

Last week, my fellow Lexington Presbyterian Church
ASK Sunday School class member VMI Math professor
Joe Martin died of class III skin cancer starting on the
face/neck. My Tucson brother-in—law has Type II skin
cancer on the face/neck with surgical scars all over. We
all have been long distance runners/walkers over years

name of a particularly R]GHT OF THE  in g back from any cavalier attitude, it is not surprising tians United have about this issue unnecessary and com- in the sun with‘no hat. Light skinned “Doc” Wilmore at
V disgusting and de- V‘ Japanese prospec— that the administration sees ﬁt to pletely devoid of the Christian love that Christ intro- theVisitor’s Center, VMI physics professor Dick Minnix
‘ grading sexual fetish.  tive who had the rnis- usurp increasing amounts of our re- duced to the world. I at the church, fellow ASK member and Presbyterian min-

The word is Japanese
and alludes to a practice that is both
exploitative and perverted. The not-
so-clever perpetrators of this taste-
less prank owe an apology to the en-
tire W&L community.

What possessed someone to
plaster the campus which such pala-
ver? Most likely, he thought, rightly,
that few students would be familiar
with such twisted behavior and that
to bombard an unsuspecting student

fortune of visiting
this month. And I’m not just blow-
ing smoke on this point— on Sun-
day afternoon, there was a large tour
group of Japanese roaming the cam-
pus. But more importantly, our cam-
pus culture will grow more coars-
ened and less in keeping with the
spirit of gentlemanly deportment
that General Lee imagined for W&L
students.
Also, the seriousness and pro-

sponsibility.

Many will respond that the
“Bukkake” campaign posters are no
more than a harmless prank. However,
at the risk of being crude, these post-
ers are no more appropriate than carn-
paign sig;ns advertising “Fellatio Now,
F ellatio Forever.” Whoever perpe-
trated this prank crossed well over the
line into tastelessness and sheer vul-
garity. He or they should ashamed and
will hopefully conceive future high

Alumnus blames war on Jews

Dear Editor,

I have thought to respond to some student who, ac-
companied by a female, and sporting on his bumper a W&L
sticker, was gently termed ‘honlcie’ by myself at Kroger’s lot
Saturday night. He parked, and to me looked ashamed even
while his vehicle honked. The pair drove away while I was
inside. Juvenile? Rather, I think, symptomatic of over-con-
trolled thought wishing despotic authority.

This week the local rag may publish my letter investi-

ister Phil Carr, and the young lady at Celtic Connections
all told me of their nose, multi-near-ear, and near-eye
skin cancers.

In my own case, I’m dark skinned and tan easily. Light
skinned persons get skin cancer faster. When I was born,
it was the custom to put babies out in the‘ sun because it
was thought to be healthy. I lived in a bathing suit (no
bath) for 8 years in North (Maury) River at our Wilson
Springs (Rockbridge Baths) cabin plus the years of run-
ning/walking exposed to the sun.

Again, tell everybody to wear sunbonnets and hats
and use suntan protection cream and do not get suntans.

 

 

 
    

  

x body with such ﬁlth would be an ex- fessionalism of the EC elections pro— jinks with an appropriately chastened gating the possible origin, and possible mistaken applica- Sincerely,
cellent tonic for a ﬂagging, juvenile cess has been dealt a blow. The fake attitude. tion, of the phrase (read cliché), “Weapons of mass de- Robert Bradley Moses
1‘ :;';',:.5;‘:.°.':I:'r'n"l'§: :.:.'.';.’I‘LI'.i’.:'.."..‘?Ii.°ZZT',s.sc. l--..... .,.;.m
‘I’.
Do you have opinions?
Do you want everybody know what they are?
I Do ou want to be an editor next ear?
Y Y
If so, the Phi Opinions section is the place for you!
3:.
l Contact Editor Brett T. Kirwan at X5129 or kirwanb@wlu.edu. § ,
No experience necessary’ I?“--_«“-I“ -' 1v‘“_”-."_"-'I  .
Y J‘SAMUELSLICER)1898L)FOUNDER O00OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO
Earn $1.0iBn—53..¢00fm'*yowﬁI.rdetrtGrow»
Ring—tum Phi, Stickeri—bumI Sum! 3 hours! .
We are the Stuff from Lexin ton! _ Crzvll-age fl.-ll’l!Zll'.’:liSi,9il%ig made Sample, Sale K-fl-fl Free.
V g    _ , A  , pp HOUSE FOR RENT
 imritaasrrg mam. rmaiatrie. Na  No ttriﬂrsi-. Just smears!
Fkruﬁraking d-’t.¥¢.t$ 913%  q1sid:b*.Cae£.wr1lrthe  tians worﬁfi 6  
R Make a difference this 6  3 BR/1 Bath
‘ 0 0 vi .  I. ’   _. I.  ‘_.I_». ..I I I I
summer while having the °“" """ “"“'”"“" " ‘W ”““"”*‘-8’ Living Room, Large Kitchen,

   

838-32:3-323$ » wwi.v..campusiruavziraiseizcarin .
Washer / Dryer ,

Large Backyard w/ Deck
$800/mo.
Call 458-7157, or 563-9810
for details

time of your life.

" Counselors and activity leaders needed to
work at summer camps for children and
adults with disabilities. Camps located near
Y Richmond and Roanoke, Virginia. Camp

season: early J une—mid August.
Visit our website at

www.va.easter'—sea|s.org/richmond
or call (804) 633-9855.

APARTMENTS (IN IIIIIEII:
close to Lexington. Ireautiiul condition.
notches racing river. one large l$425Imo.l
two small l$325Imo.l. law or undergrad,
tor next vear. 540-311-2980.
IIcwIrIrw@meIosnet

000000000IOOO<OOOOOO‘OOOOOOOOOOO000.00

 

 

 

CATHERINE C. GUY
AR"lS&LIFE EDIIOR
EMA1LGtiY<@wiiiEDU

T1ll%‘.ili1iN(j;-TLt‘:\-

MONDAY, MARCH 17, 2003

RT 8

i Pr”

 
 

 

PAGE 6 A

Buena Vista meets with mixed reviews from W&L students

One perspective: ,

BY HAYNES KING
TRAVEL CORRESPONDENT

If the urban atmosphere of
Lexington is too much for you, there
is a place you can go within ﬁfteen
minutes of beautiful Washington and
Lee to slow your life down for a while.
You may have heard of it before,
Buena Vista. As you probably learned
in your first encounters to the
Lexington community, it is not
pronounced like the Spanish word.

So, what can you do in this
exciting town? You may be asking
yourself that right now. Well, to tell
you the truth, not much.

The highlight of my own trip to
Buena Vista was the Canton Chinese
Restaurant. I do prefer Canton over
our own Hunan, but the drive
hinders my willingness to go. I
would recommend the Sesame
Chicken or the Sweet and Sour
Chicken. Both are tops. A nice,
traditional Chinese atmosphere sets
the mood as well.

You could also visit Southern
Virginia University, formerly known as

Southern Sem. It’s a Mormon school.
I don’t know what you would want to
do here, though.

If you are looking for a new futon,
a nice futon shoppe used to sit in the
“downtown” area of BV. I think it
closed, though.

Well, that about wraps up BV.

Another perspective:

BY CATHERINE GUY
ARTS & LIFE EDrroR

Our neighbor to the
southeast, Buena Vista, has more
than its share of small—town
America charm, much of which is
sadly underappreciated by
students here at Washington and
Lee. BV is a mere ten minute drive
down route 60, yet many W&L
students have never been there.
BV not only provides a welcome
change of pace to W&L’s

    
  

exciting cultural and shopping
opportunities.

My personal favorite attraction
in Buena Vista, and that of many
W&L students, is the Paradise Isle
tanning facility. Paradise Isle
provides many W&L and SVU
students alike with a clean, efficient,
and professional place in which to
enjoy the effects of a tanning bed.
Paradise Isle has ten beds, and
patrons can buy bulk appointments
for a very reasonable price. The beds
are cleaned and sanitized between
uses by the friendly and
knowledgeable staff, who not only

\‘t’\\'.\V/.K'EV\\'Sl":h'llUi\«lA.(X(3

\w\r.. lJ'NRs1’RlNG.C1)1il/”‘ \l\R

each tanner with protective eyewear
and a towel. While there, patrons
have the opportunity to purchase a
myriad of high quality and affordable
tanning lotions and oils. Best of all,
Paradise Isle plays Thunder Country
(96.7 fm) nonstop, providing tanners
with a pleasurable listening
experience while lying in the beds.
Another of Buena Vista’s
major consumer attractions is
Becky’s, a small and delightful
boutique located on Magnolia
Ave. in BV. Becky’s boasts an
impressive array of formal dresses
and is a must for any girl searching

 

 

 

 

A COLIAGE OF BUENA VISTA: A typical street view in downtown Buena Vista (top left) shows the city’s
Small Town America charm as well as its numerous little shops. Bikers (bottom left) enjoy the
breathtaking natural beauty of the mountains surrounding BV. This photo depicts one of the many

Not only can one find an attractive
and stylish dress here, but many
customers also leave with
matching shoes, handbags, and
jewelry to complete the evening’s
wear. Becky’s has been known to
outfit many participants in local
and national pageants. The staff
is extremely warm and willing to
help shoppers find a perfect dress.
Becky’s also carries a line of
everyday women’s wear, but it is
not nearly as appealing as the
formal dress line.

Buena Vista in Spanish means
“beautiful view” and this town is in

nestled in the mountains in the Blue
Ridge, and provides students with
countless activities for outdoor fun.
Hiking in BV’s surrounding
mountains is a lot of fun, and a
relaxing, welcome break from daily
life in Lexington now that warmer
weather is approaching. If you’re
looking for a change of pace in the
dating scene, a romantic drive on the
Blue Ridge Parkway (which has an
exit in BV) is certain to bring out the
sensitive side in everyone. Also,
hunting is rumored to be excellent in
the area.

BV boasts a number of other

ABC store has recently been
closed down, leaving Lexington
as the only viable source of
liquor in the area. BV, however,

is proud to boast the best soft- ‘

serve ice cream in the area. Also,
there is a top-notch Army surplus
store in town. Another fine
establishment is BV’s gun store.
For affordable shopping, visit
Frugal Elegance, conveniently
located next door to Paradise
Isle.

Overall, Buena Vista is a quaint
country town with many appealing
traits. It is deﬁnitely worth at least

I Mas/umivsmirjic i
scenic overlooks located on the Blue Ridge Parkway, quite possibly the most physically attractive road
in all of Virginia. A map (right) of the region, featuring both Lexington and Buena Vista shows ‘how
close the two cities are to each other and their respective locations on the local highways. '

students, but also with new and

disinfect the beds, but also provide

for formal date function regalia.

no way short on lovely sites. It is

‘Chicago’ will win big with all that jazz

BY MAC VERSTANDIG
BADGER HERALD (U. WiscoNsrN)

(U-WIRE) MADISON, Wis. - It was April 14, 1969
when the Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences
named the hit musical “Oliver! ” best picture. The trend
since then has been clear: words over songs.

The motion-picture musical more or less died by the mid-
1970s and was aptly absent from the Oscars for the duration of
the 20th century. But then a new millennium and old art fonn
came about in unison and Baz Luhrmarm’s “Moulin Rouge!”
had audiences abuzz with melody just over a year ago.

The motion-picture musical is back, and nothing will
evidence this more than when, March 23 , 2003, the
Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences will name
the hit musical “Chicago” best picture. Yes, it is inevitable.

Notorious Oscar-purchaser Mirarnax has groomed
“Chicago” for awards of greatness since its birth. And the
ﬁlm has been gaining momentum at a ridiculous pace.

First it practically swept the critics’ guilds (note the
word “practically” — ironically, the picture didn’t with the
Chicago Film Critics Association Awards). Then the ﬁlm
took the Golden Globe. And just this past weekend it
ambushed the Screen Actors Guild Awards. If Mirarnax
would drag the campaign out a few more months, the
musical could probably snatch the Nobel Peace Prize.

Of course, to create the appearance of competition,
four other ﬁlms —— “The Pianist,” “Gangs of New York,”
“The Hours” and ‘The Lord of the Rings: The Two Towers”
~”- are nominated. Kid yourself not; they stand no chance.

“The Hours” is nominated for nine awards (a paltry count
compared to the 13 racked up by “Chicago”) and did win the
Golden Globe for Best Drama. But its Virginia Woolf subj ect
matter is a tad highbrow for the Academy’s popcorn taste.

“Gangs ofNew York” is also being backed by Miramax
and did manage 10 nominations. But the ﬁlm seems to be
more of a showcase for Daniel Day-Lewis than an actual
collaborative effort, and its poor public reception should
severely hamper its odds of winning.

“The Pianist” has seven nominations but has yet to win a
serious precursor award and, resultantly, has no momentum.
Also, the Holocaust theme might be a bit dark asAmerica ﬁnds
itselfon the brink of war and seeking lighter fonns of escapism.

' As for the extremely popular “The Lord of the Rings:
The Two Towers,” it just isn’t Academy material. Despite
being based on J. R. R. Tolkien’s classic novel, the ﬁlm is
perceived as a lowbrow venture driven by special effects.
Count on it sweeping the technical awards, but it will follow
the way of “Star Wars” and miss the big award.

The other major award being considered here is Best

Director. A number of cinema pundits, this critic included,
are of the belief that the best—directed ﬁlm of the year is
inherently the best picture, as the two are truly
synonymous. However, from time to time, the Academy
has seen ﬁt to split the honors.

Peter Jackson, the director of “The Lord of the Rings:
The Two Towers” is not nominated for the award. Rather,
Pedro Almodovar, who helmed “Hable con ella,” has taken
his place. Almodovar has garnered great note in recent years
for his ﬁlm “Todo Sobre Mi Madre.” But this isAlmodovar’s
first Oscar nomination, and it is reasonable to assume that
he will not go home a winner with a subtitled piece.

Stephen Daldry directs “The Hours.” This is his second
nomination, having received one for “Billy Elliot” two years
ago. Daldry, however, does nothing to distinguish himself
sufﬁciently from his ﬁlm such that the Academy would go
out on a limb and split awards for him.

Martin Scorsese, who is widely considered to be one
of the ﬁnest directors in Hollywood to have not won an
Oscar, directs “Gangs of New York.” This is his ﬁfth
nomination, the ﬁrst having come over 20 years ago for
“Raging Bull.” If a split is to occur, it is possible the that
Academy would send “Gangs of New York” home a loser

Rn\vuwAGEsoo.\rcAsrNEr/ir)viEALscAts/ 800sY600/ CH1cAco.}i>c

and still bestow directing honors upon Scorsese as a
loosely-veiled lifetirne-achievement award.

Perhaps the most interesting of the directorial
nominees is Roman Polanski. This is his fourth nomination,
with previous nods for “Rosemary’s Baby” in 1969,
“Chinatown” in 1975 and “Tess” in 1981.

ButPo1anski’sﬁlmsarea1lbores coniparedtohislife story.
Hiswife, SharonTate,wasrriurderediril969byChariesMansor1’s
gang. She was eightmonths pregnant atthe time.Aﬁermouming
her loss, Polanski found a new girlﬁiend and started to move on
The onlyproblernwas thathisnew lovewas 13 years old

Polanski is currently wanted in the United States on charges
ofstatutoryrapearidhasbeeninexi1esincel978.Ifheatterriptsto
enter the country for the Oscars, he will likely be arrested

Assuming the Academy doesn’t split votes on the
awards and give the honor to Scorsese or make some sort
of radical statement by bestowing it upon Polanski, Best
Director should go to Rob Marshall, who helrned “Chicago.”

A native of Madison, Wis., Marshall makes his big-
screen debut with “Chicago.” And quite. the debut it has
been. Count on Marshall winning an Oscar for Best
Director as the motion picture musical makes its long-

awaited return to the Academy Awards March 23.

attractions as well.

  

Sadly, the

Now Playing...

one visit, if not many.

The upcoming ﬁlms offered in Lexington

FROM STAFF REPOKTS

W&L Film Society

The W&L Film Society met this week and
selected two more ﬁlms for the current year’s
schedule. Additional selections may be announced
shortly.

March 28 & 29

ZSTHHOUR

(USA, 2002), directed by Spike Lee
Rated “R.”

April 25 &' 26

ADAPTATION

(USA, 2002), directed by Spike Jonze
Rated “R.”

All showing are scheduled for 7:30 PM, in the

Troubadour Cinema, with no admission charge.

And, no, we did not deliberately choose ﬁlms by A

people named “Spike.”

The State

The State movie theater is located on 12 E. Nelson *
St. in Lexington. Tickets at The State cost $6.50 for’

adults and $5 for children and senior citizens. Movie
times for this week are as follows:
“How to Lose a Guy in Ten Days”: 2, 7, 9220
“Old School’’- 2:10, 7:10, 9:25
“Tears of the Sun”— 2:05, 7, 9:20

The matinee times are available only on Saturday
and Sunday. The evening times are available every
day of the week.

Valley Cinemas

Valley Cinemas are located at 2275 Beech Ave. in
Buena Vista. Tickets for all customers and all show-
ings are $3. The following ﬁlms will be showing this
coming week:

“Time Changer”-

Monday-Friday: 7

Saturday: 3, 7, 9

Sunday: 3, 7
“Daredevil”-

Monday-Friday: 7

Saturday: 3, 7, 9

Sunday: 3, 7

 

 

    

.ERiN ULIUS
SRORIS EDIIOR

EMAI; ]U11USE@W1lJ.EDU

TIIERING-TUAIPIII

‘MONDAY, JANUARY 20, 2003

BY MARY CHRISTOPHER
SPORTS WRITER

xv Bright and early Saturday mom-
ing, the Washington and Lee Track
team was ready and eager to com-
pete in its ﬁrst outdoor meet of the
season. Having gained many new

_ Yvaluable members for the season, the

I coaches were anxiously awaiting the

i performances of the runners. Head
Coach John Tucker constantly re-
minds the runners that they need to
be both “excited and relaxed” to
have a strong race, and this mix was
certainly present among the Gener-
als.

Y There were 14 teams present at
the Invitational, which led to ﬁerce
competition for the runners, yet both
the men and women performed

‘strongly. The women ﬁnished 6th
with an overall score of 33 points,
while John Carroll University took
5th with 56 points, Frostburg State
University 4th with 63, Centre Col-

ylege came in third with 64 points,
runner-up Roanoke college scored
98 points, and Susqueharma Univer-
sity was victorious with their score

of 105.

I The men also had great perfor-
mances resulting in their 7th place
ﬁnish with a score of 29 points. John
Carroll University (118),
gsusquehanna University (94.50),

Centre College (64), Desales Univer-
sity (45), Bridgewater College (45),
and Frostburg State University (42)
were the top scorers for the men.
*4 The throwers, jumpers, and many
wonderful volunteers, were the first
ones to arrive at the meet. Angel
Daniels received a 7tl1 place ﬁnish for
1, her jump of 4’08'and Meredith Walker
did well in the long jump with a dis-
tance of 15’02.75"—— a 5th place ﬁn-
ish.
Chris Sullivan won the long j11rnp
V" for the men and Brian Krupczak took
4th. In the shot put, Washington and
Lee» had Ia,Yer.y. strong s11<‘>.Yvins{sé=:c.-

34’l1.00" l0.64m and 5th place
Audrey Walker threw 33’04.25"
10. 17m. For the men, Brian Gallagher
and Chris Walker took 10th and 13th
with 35 and 33’06 throws.

*4 In the discus throw, Emily
Barker threw 102’02.50", Lauren

. Men’s tennis remains unde ez 

BY ALLISON PERRY
SPORTS WRITER

Ir Washington and Lee men’s ten-
nis team continued their unbroken
winning streak this past week. First,
they shut down Eastern Mennonite
on the road Tuesday, 7-0, in ODAC

7 action. The Generals also defeated
Denison, 5-2, on Wednesday, and
Sewanee, 6-1 , on Thursday. Both
matches were played at home. The

V men improved their record to 8-0 over-
all, and 4-0 in the ODAC.

Against Eastern Mennonite Tues-
day, senior Chris Sorenson led the 14"‘
ranked Generals with a 6-4, 6-4 win at

7 No. 1 singles. Sophomore David
Ellison shut down his opponent 6-0, 6-
0 at No. 2. Freshmen Rares Trocan
and Chris Kimmel defeated their oppo-

,3, nents 6-2, 6-0 and 6-3, 6-4 atNo. 3 and
4, respectively. Junior Tim Moll won
his match 6-4, 6-2 at No. 5 while fresh-
man Reid Bruner rounded out the top
six with a 6-2, 6-0 win.

I’ In doubles action, Ellison and
Kimmel teamed up to win their match
8-4 at No. 1. Sorenson and Trocan
knocked off their opponents 8-1 in the

., No. 2 spot. Moll and Brimer also won
their match 8-2 at No. 3.

At home on Wednesday,
Denison player Jeronie Barnes de-
feated sophomore Paul McClure in a

4 close match of6-7 (6), 6-4, 7-5 inNo. 1
singles. Barnes is ranked 50”‘ in the
nation.

At No. 2, junior captain Austin

A Kim won his match 7-6, 7-5. Junior
captain Graham Nix also defeated
his opponent with a 6-3, 6-0 win at
No. 3. Junior K.C. Schaefer and
freshmen David Shay and Jordan

‘I! Eichenberger defeated their oppo-
nents 6-0, 6-0; 6-3, 7-6 (6); and 6-4,
6-1, respectively.

In doubles, Kim and Nix were de-

-1’

 

0nd place ﬁnisher Emily Barker threw .

Egbert 84’06.00" 25.76m, and
Audrey Walker 79’O9.50" 24.32m;
the girls finished 3rd, 10th, and
13th. In the Javelin throw, Bethany
Dannelly had an excellent second
place performance as did Emily
Barker who ﬁnished 8th. Chris
Sullivan and Matt Watson ﬁnished
6th and 7th in the same event for
the men.

In the 100 meter Dash Meredith
Walker came in 7th with her time of
13.86 and achieved 7th in the 200m
dash as well with her time of 29.08
with sophomore Kim Gunst close be-
hind with a time of 29.81.
Moving up in distance to the 800m
run, Liz Twentyman had an excellent
performance that put her in 9th place,
with her personal record time for the
year of 2:37:10. In the 1500m dash
freshman Mary Christopher and
Megan Ward performed well with
times of 5: 19:93 and 5:21:73, giving
them 4th and 5th place ﬁnishes, with
Erin Johnson not far behind in 11th
place.

In the 5,000m run, a 3 mile race
on the track, many Washington and
Lee runners fought the distance and
showed strong performances and
potential for the rest of the season.

Betsy Frayer was the top performer
in the even with her time of 20:20:90
and a 7th place ﬁnish. Behind her
were runners Jessica Remmert in 14th
place with a time of 21:34.41, and
Ashley Brown in 16th place with a
time of 22:27:97.

In the 100m dash for the men
Chris Sullivan placed second with
1 1.27, and Jonathan Brimer ﬁnished
9thwithatime of11.70. Inthe 200m
Brian Krupczak ﬁnished 5th with a
time of 22.99, while Jonathan Brimer
ran23.53,puttinghimin9th place. In
the 400m dash Brimer ﬁnished 9th
with a time of 52.42.
For the men’s distance events Matt
Reilly performed well in the 800m a.r1d
Andrew Johnson and Rusty Meyer
ran ‘well in_tl_i1_e Isoom with times bf
4:17:75 and 4:18:40, 10th and 11th
place ﬁnishes.

For the relays the 4 by 100m
women’s team ﬁnished 7th and the
two 4 by 400m women’s teams fm-
ished 6th and 8th. The men’s 4 by
100m then finished 4th
When asking Distance Head Coach

feated 8-5 in the No. 1 spot. McClure
and Shay lost a close match of 9-8
(3) at No. 2. Schaefer and Kimmel
were also defeated in the No. 3 spot,
86.

Kim has been pleased with the
way the freshmen are playing this
year. Shay and Eichenberger usually
round out the top six. Kimmel has
also been playing well.

“Chris is a good, solid player,”
Kim said. “He usually plays No. 3
doubles.”

The Generals kept the same line-
up for Thursday’s match at home
against Sewanee. McClure led the
team with a 5-7, 6-1, 6-4 win at No. 1
singles. Kim won his match 7-6 (5), 6-
2 in the No. 2 spot. Nix defeated his
opponent 6-3, 6-3. At No. 4, Schaefer
had a 6-3, 6-0 victory. Shay and
Eichenberger won their matches 6-3,
4-6, 7-5 and 3-6, 6-4, 6-0 at No. 5 and 6,
respectively.

, In doubles play, Kim and Nix were
defeated 8-5 at No. 1. They are cur-
rently the l 1"‘ ranked doubles team in
the Atlantic South region. McClure
and Shay won their match 8-5 at No.
2. Schaefer and Kimmel were de-
feated 8-5 in No. 3 doubles.

The men also had matches
against Salisbury and Lynchburg on
Sunday. Results were not available
at press time.

Kim thinks Salisbury is a solid
team, but he is looking ahead to the
match against Mary Washington on
Saturday. Mary Washington is
ranked 8"‘ in the nation.

“We beat them last year [in na-
tiona1s],” Kim said. “We ended it for
them, so they’re out for us. We are
the underdogs, but it’s going to be a
war.”

The Generals next play on
Wednesday at Emory and Henry at
4:00pm.

PORTS
.W&L Invitational

‘ I

FINISH LINE. (Above) Sophomore Casey Sharp ran the 400-meter race at the
Washington and Lee Invitational held this past Saturday. (Below) Spectators

'2. *-'~.~ '
KAIIE HOWELL/ The Ring!-/um Pbi

proves usccessful for Generals

9
1

no

n
.«I

5...

KATIE HowELL/ T/ye Ring-tum Phi: 3‘

I
‘I

PAGE 7 {-

A

.23

|~<.'.»

 

from area schools came during the warm, sunny weather on Saturday to view,r,

the event.

Amy Schuckert about the meet she
felt that “the beautiful weather was
accompanied by some great perfor-
mances for the men’s and women’s
track teams. It was nice to finally be
outdoors and run on a full-sized
track. I know the distance runners
beneﬁted from moving outside and
off of the tight turns of the indoor
track.”

She commented on the remark-
able ﬁnishes of some of the distance
runners: “We had some season best
performances by Liz Twentyman in
the 800 with a 2:37.10. Mary Chris-

topher nearly equaledher best
I had a good day. Matt Reilley had a»;

l500m—only a few tenths of a sec-
ond off of her PR (personal record)
with her 5: 19.93 (4th place). Aston-
ishingly, in her ﬁrst performance of
the season, Megan Ward ran a
5:21.73 en route to a 5th place over-
all ﬁnish. Perhaps even more im-

pressive, is the fact that she did so\’
by capturing a win in the slower sec-:-,

tion of the event. Erin Johnson had
a season best of 5:32.98 in the 1500m.

After suffering from an injury mostlﬁg“

of the indoor season, Betsy Frayer
opened her outdoor season by tum-
ing in a superb performance in the
5k with a time of 20:20.90. Her ef-
forts earned her 7th place. Jessica
Remmert had an outstanding 5,000m ,
with her career best of 2l:34.41;f'
Ashley Brown and Sarah»\
Williamson also turned in debut per-
formances in the 5,000m. On the;

men’s side, the distance runners also.-‘

season best in the 800m—running,
almost a full second faster than his.”
best indoor 800. Additionally, An-9
drew Johnson’s 4:17.75, and Rustya
Meyer’s 4: 18.40 were season PRs in
the 1500m.” 9

Women’s tennis knock off two in ODACS

BY ALLISON PERRY
SPORTS WRITER

The Washington and Lee women’s tennis team
knocked off Denison, Randolph-Macon,
Bridgewater, and Sewanee this past week. The
women improved their record to 10-0, 6-0 in the
ODAC.

The second ranked Generals defeated Denison
7-2 on Tuesday. Denison is tied for twelfth place
in national rankings.

Sophomore Lindsay Hagerman led the women
with a 6-2, 6-2 win in the No. 1 singles match. Se-
nior captain Laura Bruno defeated her opponent
in a close match of 7-6 (0), 7-6 (6) in the No. 2 spot.
In the No. 3 singles match, senior captain Erika
Proko won her match 6- 1, 6- l . Senior Brandi Jane
Wedgeworth was defeated by Alison Hughes in a
close match of 6-4, 7-6 (7) in the No. 4 spot. In the
No. 5 and 6 singles, freshman Lisa Mabry and jun-
ior Liz Law defeated their opponents 3-6, 6-2, 6-2
and 6-3, 7-6 (4), respectively.

In doubles play, the ﬁfth ranked doubles team
of Hagerman and Proko defeated their opponents
8-6 at No. 1. Due to an injury, Allison Lesnet took
the place of 13”‘ ranked Lauren Gerlach in
Denison’s No. 1 doubles match. Gerhlach and
Hughes are ranked seventh in the nation in doubles
play.

Bruno and Mabry won their match 8-5 at No.
2. Junior Ellie Simpson and sophomore Marie

Trimble were defeated in a tight match of 9-8 (8) in
No. 3 doubles. ‘

On Wednesday, the women shut down
Randolph Macon at home, 9-0, and Bridgewater
on the road, 9-0. ,

In the match against Randolph Macon,
Proko easily won her match 6-0, 6-1 at No. 1
singles. Freshman Megan Curran played in the
No. 2 spot, defeating her opponent 6-2, 6-1.
Freshman Patty Roberts also won her match at
No. 3, 6-1, 6-1. In the No.4, 5, and 6 singles,
sophomores Meredith Bailey and Catherine
Torrey Stroud and freshman Stephanie Harmon
defeated their opponents 6-1, 6-0; 6-3, 6-1; and
6-0, 6-0, respectively.

In doubles action, Curran and Proko teamed
up to win their match 8-1 at No. 1. Harmon and
Roberts also won their match with an 8-4 victory
in No. 2 doubles. Bailey and Stroud shut down
their opponents 8-0 at No. 3.

At Bridgewater, Wedgeworth led at No. 1
with a victory of 6-3, 6-1. Law and freshman
Ingrid Easton shut down their opponents both
6-0, 6-0 at No. 2 and No. 3, respectively. Junior
Emily Taylor knocked off her opponent 6-0, 6-3
at No. 4. Freshman Laura Neller won her match
6-1, 6-0 in the No. 5 spot. Sophomore Kristine
Crawford rounded out the top six with a 6-0, 6-1
win.

In doubles, Wedgeworth and Law won their
match 8-1 at No. 1. The teams of Easton and

Neller, and Taylor and freshman Lauren Peters shut
down their opponents both 8-0 at No. 2 and No. 3,
respectively.
On Thursday, the Generals defeated Sewanee.,
9-O. Parts of the match were delayed slightly due‘.
to rain. Sewanee has a record of 6-3. A
Hagerman led the Generals with a win of 6-1,
6-4 at No. 1 singles. Bruno knocked off her oppo-,_
nent 7-5, 6-4 at No. 2. In the No. 3 singles match,g’,
Proko defeated her opponent 6-1, 6-1 . Wedgeworth‘
and Mabry won their matches 6-3, 6-2 and 6-2, 6-2.;
at No. 4 and 5, respectively. Law won with a vic-
tory of 6-0, 6-2 at No. 6. .,
In doubles play, Hagerman and Proko teamed,_
up to win their match 8-4 at No. 1. Bruno and,
Mabry also won 8-4 at No. 2. Law and Trimble had
an 8-5 victory at No. 3. ,-
The women also had matches on Sunday.
against Lynchburg and 17"‘ ranked Salisbury. Re-
sults were not available at press time. V.
Senior captain Erika Proko is ranked 26”‘ na-;
tionally in singles. She did not expect any sur-f.
prises in Sunday’s matches. _,‘
“We had a really good match against
Denison,” Proko said. “If we play the way we’ve:
been playing, we expect it to be easy across the
board.” f;
The Generals next play tomorrow at home.
against Eastern Mennonite at 3 :30 p.m. and on the
road against Randolph-Macon Woman’s College
at 4:30 p.m. I

    

VICTORY. W&L lacrossetearn members celebrat e a goal during Saturday’s game.

JEE BROOKS/ The Ring-tum P/21'

Women’s Lax wins

FROM STAFF REPORTS

Washington and Lee’s women’s lacrosse team defeated
Nazareth 10-7 in a match played Saturday afternoon at the Lib-
erty Hall Fields. The Generals, ranked 13th, had fourteammem-°'
bers score two goals apiece. Kristen Brown, Kitt Murphy, Kelly
Taﬂe and Lee Wheeler were all responsible for two goals apiece
while Leslie Bogart and Katharine Lesterwere each responsible
for one goal. In goal, Joanna Perini was recorded eight savesf;

The Generals next take the ﬁeld on Wednesday in a
4:30 home match against Hollins. They also play Saturg
day in match played at Mary Washington at 2 p.m. ’

    

PAGE 8

 

 
 

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 11, 2002

Sibiiis

NCAA awards
scholarship osenior

BY ERIN JULIUS
SPORTS EDITOR

Senior John Melillo has been
awarded a postgraduate scholarship
from the NCAA. This scholarship was
awarded based on both athleticism
and scholarship, as nominations are
limited to those who have, “performed
with distinction as members of var-
sity teams in the sport in which they
are nominated,” and must, “have a
minimum grade-point average of 3.2.”
Melillo clearly exempliﬁes athleticism
and scholarship. He has started for
the W&L’s football team for four
years and is a Robert E. Lee Honor
Scholar.

Melillo maintains a 4.025 grade-
point average and has made the Honor

 

Melillo played football for two
years in middle school, four years in
high school and four years at W&L.
He started playing because “my dad’s
a football coach. . .when I got together
with friends we
played pick—up
games and then
I started playing
in middle
school,” he said.

While at
W&L, Melillo
was a left guard
and started for
three years, “I
got hurt sopho-
more year. I got a torn ACL in the 5th
game so I was out for the rest of the
season,” he said, “that’s the year I

MELILLO

Roll every year of didn’t start.”
his college ca- While on
men I LOVE FOOTBALL AND I’LL MISS w&L»S offensive
 lI1- PLAYING THE GAME line, 
tends to use the helped lead the
grant to attend JOHN MELILLO running backs to
graduate school, break the 1,000-
where he will ~ yard barrier each

study English. He has applied to the
University of Texas, Yale, NYU and
the University of Chicago. “My ﬁrst
choice is a toss-up between NYU or
Yale, if I get into the latter,” he said.
Melillo has been accepted to both
NYU and the University of Chicago.

Eventually, Melillo would like to
get a phD in English and teach at the
college level. He does not, however,
wish to pursue football as a coach.

“I’ve seen it from the negative
side, because my dad coaches.
People see it as a way to be young
forever but it is very political and you
have to deal with parents. It’s not
about winning football games, it’s
about being political,” he said.

He began playing organized foot-
ball during his middle school years
because, “it’s fun. . .it’s a great social
activity. . .it was good for me—disci-
pline, toughness, teamwork—these
are all great skills for real life, of
course, when I first started playing as
a little kid, I didn’t see that, but I
learned fairly quickly.

Division I Mon’: Brackets
ﬁHi&v%1I
rxsmnmim

    

V »Beam.cr(PN2)
A Looking for something bigger?

  Check out the new Alpha 250

season and allow only 22 sacks in over
500 pass attempts in the last two sea-
sons.

Melillo chose W&L after look-
ing at several Division I schools such
as Harvard and Rice. “They have re-
ally good programs and I would have
tried to walk on to a team there,” he
said.

“When I was thinking about col-
lege, I saw that I could play at W&L,
it was an extra bonus. . .W&L was the
best combination of all things—
great scholarship, great school, the
fact that I could still play football,”
he said.

“I love football and I’ll miss play-
ing the game,” said Melillo.

The one-time grant, in the
amount of $6,900, is awarded to par-
ticipants in fall, winter and spring
sports. 58 scholarships are awarded
to each category- 29 for men and 29
for women.

Melillo is the 20th athlete to re-
ceive an NCAA Postgraduate Schol-
arship since 1970.

Jmoif/rm ii/'7/"mgr rrfrii

on a new Scooter from

ooismo areairaie isporemis

2040 Magnolia Ave
Buena Vista Va. 24416
_ (540)261-6460

V- Twin

TErENi<AL rOLL

Tar-;i<EsA ANI)ERSO.\J / The Ring-I147/1Phi

SHOT CLOCK. Dean of Students David Howison takes a shot into a Pi
Kappa Phi freshmarfs “basket” outside the Co-op one afternoon this week
Pledges from many of the fraternities could be seen participating in “goofy”
activities this past week, known to many as “Hell Week” New state legislation
may crack down on even these hainless antics if a new bill passes that could
make federal francial aid revocation a punishment for hazers. For more
information on the bill, see http://thomas.loc.gov/cgi—bin/query/

z?c108:H.Rl207:.

no special license or
V tags required
Must be 116 to operate
on highway

Baseball streak continues‘

Generals take wins in three home games,

improves record to 9-2, 3-2 ODAC

BY JOHN HYLANI)
SPORTS WRITER

The Washington and Lee base-
ball team keeps rolling, winning a total
of three home games last week to con-
tinue a seven game winning streak and
improve their record to 9-2 overall, 3-1
ODAC. The Generals are a perfect 5-0
at Cap’n Dick Smith Field this season.
The team took two wins from Division
H West Virginia Tech last Sunday to
drop Tech’s overall record to 3-3. The
Generals then defeated Mount
Aloysius last Tuesday, preventing the
Mounties from earning their ﬁrst vic-
tory of the season and drop their record
to 0-4.

Ir1Game 1 last Sunday, WestVrrginia
Techopenedup aneariy4-l leadbefore
the Generals came back to score two runs
inthe secondirrningandfournmsinthe
thirdim1ingtoopenupa7-5 leadtfnatthey
would not relinquish in a 12-7 victory. The
Generalsscoredinﬁveofthesixinnings
that they batted and were led offensively
by sophomore catcher Zach Bausch who
was2 for2withtwodoub1es,awalk, two
rur1sscoredandfourRBIs.Histworun
double inthethirrdinninghelpedbreakﬂie
game open Junior leﬂﬁelder Dan Kagey
was 3 for3 ontheafternoon,withawalk,
threeruns scoredandanRBI. Seniorﬁrst
baseman Dan Gladysz provided some in-
suranoewithasolohornerumhisﬁrstof
the season,inthe  Juniorright
handerMikeWertpitchedaoomplete game
seven innings for the Generals to improve
his recordto2-0.

In the nightcap, the Generals
scored two runs in the first inning to
give themselves all of the offense they
would need as they cruised to a 4-0
victory. Senior shortstop Michael
Hanson led off the first inning with a
walk and then stole second to become
the Generals career leader in stolen
bases with 41. He then scored on an
RBI single by senior centerﬁelder
Bobby Littlehale. Junior pitcher Bryan
Mulhem then doubled to center to
drive in Littlehale. Mulhern and
Littlehale each had two hits to give
the Generals their only four of the
game. But the story of the game was
Mulhem’s masterful pitching perfor-

mance. The right hander threw a four-
hit complete game shutout to earn his
second victory of the season. He
struck out four and did not allow a
walk

On Tuesday, the Generals scored

‘D

two 111118 in the ﬁrst inning against,

Mount Aloysius on a two run single
by Mulhem. Both runs were unearned
and were the first of seven unearned
runs for the game, thanks to a total of

seven Mount Aloysius errors that‘!

greatly helped the Generals cause.
The Mounties scored two runs in the
second to tie the score. W&L took
the lead for good in the fourth inning
on a two-nm homer by freshman third
baseman Scott Gosselink, the ﬁrst of
his career. Gosselink’s homer started
a ﬁve run inning that broke the game

Y.

open and ended in a 10-5 victory that 7-

marked the ﬁfth time in eleven games
that the Generals have scored at least
ten runs. Littlehale was 2 for 5 with a

run scored and two RBI for the game. ’

Junior leﬁ hander Peter Dean pitched
only the first two innings for the Gen-
erals in the hopes of not wearing out
his arm alter pitching seven innings

the previous Saturday against,
Hamden-Sydney. Manager Jeff ’

Stickley utilized a pair of right handed
sophomores to close out the game.
Ken Hackman earned his ﬁrst victory
of the season while Brian Higgins
pitched the ﬁnal ﬁve innings of the
game, allowing zero runs, to earn his
ﬁrst save of the season.

The team returned to ODAC play .
with a doubleheader at Randolph-Ma-
con Saturday. Sophomore outﬁelder
Warren Hunter believes, “This is a big
doubleheader for us. All of our pitch-
ers are well rested and we would like
to build momentum entering a long
stretch of conference games.” The
Randolph-Macon doubleheader is the
beginning of a ﬁfteen game stretch
before the ODAC tournament in
which the Generals play only three
non-conference games. The Generals
will play host to perennial conference
powerhouse Bridgewater on Wednes-
day at 3:00. This stretch will deﬁne
the Generals season in their hopes of
winning an ODAC championship.

Are you getting the picture?

 

I jI‘I ﬂI‘II I —HI-II -HI-II TH

Y

‘Y

7

IX IITlI‘IITl.- I IITIIZIITI yr

DIXIE DIVAS 

BOUTIQUE

x
1‘
Winter Madness 9:] I e

5573')’ Yorrwoxf Jwécy Couture ,,

BCBGi\r’lA.§<&3R§a’?s
“CHANGING CHA Lm ONE DRESS AT A TIME”

107 Fjliewood Ave. On the UVA Comer

  

1/

245—22 17 A‘,
\

 

/‘trek
5 375-755
T‘? 55?...

‘I./.[g5
"}"!C’, 2 4

CR2.’

W&L attorney
shedstunher
light on Brief

BY MATTHEW MCDERMOTT
CONTRIBUTING EDITOR

4

Y The W&L Board of Trustees had
to swiﬁly decide whether to ﬁle an
amicus brief on behalf of race-con-
scious admissions policies, said Uni-

' versity Attorney Leanne Shank.

An aniicus brief is advice offered
to a court by a party not involved in
the litigation.

“President (Tom Burish) and I

< brought the matter up to the Board at

the February Board meeting,” said
Shank, who summarized the briefs
they had been requested to join.

._, At that time, the trustees empow-
ered the Board’s Executive Commit-
tee to choose one if any brief before
the Feb. 18 filing deadline.

The Executive Committee was

V aided by an informal working group

composed of Dean of the Law School

David Partlett, Shank and eight to 10

trustees, most of them lawyers.

The Board wanted to find a brief
in line with W&L’s values and cul-
ture, Shank said. It also wanted to
avoid misrepresenting itself to the
public.

V “This is a case that can easily be

misunderstood,” Shank said.

“We wanted it to be clear that we
supported taking race into consider-
ation, but only as one of many fac-
tors.”

For that reason, W&L joined the
McGough brief, named alter its coun-
sel of record, W. Thomas McGough,
‘Y a partner in the Reed Smith law firm.

The brief stresses that it does
not support the University of
Michigan’s preferential “point sys-
tem.” Rather, it states that all signa-
tories “in their support of excellence
in education (support) meaningful di-
versity.”

The brief supports Supreme
-4 Court Justice Lewis Powell’s decision

in University of California v. Bakke

sEE AMICUS, PAGE 2

 

DO YOL' RFMEMBERP

from clay Buddhas to a nip to St Thomas.

NG—TUM PHI

Sp

if JEE BROOKE / The Ring-tum Phi
SOBRIEIY? Campus and Greek organizations came together
for a night of sobriety on Friday. The night culminated at
Leticia Evans Pate  Hallwhere Dean David Howison
acted as auctioneer distributing all kinds of prizes 

BY KATIE HOWELL
EDITOR IN CHIEF

A new proposal concerning faculty teach-
ing loads, class sizes and graduation require-
ments may bring the future of spring term back
into the campus spotlight. The proposal will
be announced today and posted on the Wash-
ington and Lee Web site, said Student Leader-
ship Committee member Mavia Brown.

The Faculty Advisory Committee is mak-
ing the proposal in response to late Presi-

dent John Elrod’s decision that all faculty
workloads be reduced by one course every
two years.

W&L faculty members each currently
teach seven courses per year, according
to the University registrar’s Web page.
Elrod, however, wanted the teaching load
lowered to six courses every other year.
Brown said in order to do this, the Uni-
versity must consider the overall calen-
dar so that class sizes remain small and
students are still able to take all the gradu-

VOLUMECV,NO.XXlV
MONDAY, MARCH 24, 2003

ring erm may be in question again

ation and general education requirements
needed.

The Student Leadership Committee as
well as other students and faculty around carn-
pus think that the future of spring term may be
an issue raised in the proposal.

Once the proposal is made, President
Thomas Burish will debate it with faculty
and students before the faculty will make
the final decision. The proposal should
be placed on the University Web site to-
day.

WAR. Students gather around the television in the Co—op Wednesday’ night to

‘( watch President George Bush speak shortly after Iraqi President Saddam Hussein

Mock Con spring kickoff approaches

BY KYIE WAss AND KATIE HOWELL
SENIOR STAFF WRITER AND EDITOR IN CHIEF

The first black woman to manage a political campaign will be a
keynote speaker in the Mock Convention Spring kickoff this May.
Donna Brazile, who managedAl Gore’s presidential campaign in 2000,
may possibly be joined by Rev. Al Sharpton, University of Virginia
politics professor Larry Sabato, Cook Political Report founder, Charlie
Cook, and the country-rock band Wilco for the Kick-off, said Mock
Convention General Chairman Noah Rhodes.

“The Kick-off will revolve around an Issues Panel, a Media Panel
and a band on Friday night,” Rhodes said.

The Spring Kick-off, scheduled for May 8 and 9, will feature
several keynote speakers such as Brazile and possibly Sharpton on
Thursday and Friday, an Issues Panel on Thursday aﬁemoon featur-
ing Sabato and Cook and a band Friday night. Rhodes said Wilco will
most likely be the Kick-off performers.

Rhodes said the committee is waiting to hear back from both
Sharpton and Wilco before ﬁnal plans for the Kick-off can be made.

“We’ve been in contact with Sharpton,” Rhodes said. “We’re
just trying to negotiate an honorarium right now.”

Over the past few months, Rhodes and the other two Mock
Convention tri-chairs, Jacquelyn Clark and Michael Denbow, have
arranged speakers and events, chosen regional chairmen and state
chairmen, started a fund raising campaign and made general plans for
the event to be held next January.

Rhodes said the State Chairmen are currently seeking committee
members to serve as delegation vice chairmen, secretaries, treasurers
and ﬂoat chairmen. Interested individuals should contact their appro-
priate state chairs over the next two weeks if they want to get involved.

“We’re ahead of schedule in a lot of regards,” Rhodes said.

i “We’ve had ﬁmd-raising trips across the country and talked with

alumni. We’re taking a very pro-active approach. When it all comes
together, it’s going to happen in a ﬂurry. Everything is going to fall
together in a big way.”

Washington and Lee is well-known for consistently holding
a realistic mock convention for the political party out of ofﬁce in
a given election year. United Press International was quoted in
1976 as saying that it is “the nation’s most accurate mock con-
vention.” Furthermore, their Web site boasts that “in a decade

when America’s youth have been dubbed ‘disengaged,’ ‘unmo-
tivated,’ and ‘apathetic,’ the Mock Convention of Washington
and Lee University contradicts these generalizations with its
raucous realism and its remarkable prediction rate,” and former
Senator Bob Dole has also said that W&L “[has] got a great
record. . .you don’t miss very much at all.” Dole was one of the
featured guest speakers at the 2000 Republican Mock Conven-
tion. This year, the mock convention will be for the democratic
party.

While Oberlin College in Ohio claims the oldest mock con-
vention — theirs dates back to pre-Civil War — W&L’s has been
in existence since 1908. W&L holds the best record for con-
tinually correctly predicting the actual candidate, however, with
a record 17 correct predictions out of 22 attempts. The school’s
first mock convention — the 1908 Democratic Mock Convention
— drew the first correct prediction, naming the democratic can-
didate William Jennings Bryan, who was later selected at the
actual Democratic National Convention in Denver. In addition,
since 1948, the convention has been mistaken only once. The
Mock Convention’s Web site is quick to note the correct pre-
dictions Washington and Lee has made in this area, including
Nixon in 1968, Carter in 1976', Reagan in 1980, Dukakis in 1988,
Clinton in 1992, Dole in 1996, and Bush in 2000. W&L contrib-
utes the consistent continuation of perfect forecasts to the great
amount of research that participants undertake to fully under-
stand the political convictions and probable decisions of all
fifty states, and thus “even personal political preferences are
put aside in preparation for an accurate convention,” according
to the website’s history of the event.

Washington and Lee’s mock convention currently attracts cov-
erage from papers like The Washington Post, who in 1996 called the
convention “one of the nation’s oldest and most prestigious mock
conventions,” to news stations like C-SPAN, with media interest
steadily growing, according to the convention’s Web site. Thus,
students can expect to see comparable and growing media coverage
in January of 2004.

As in previous years, this will be a festive event, with a spring
kickoff in 2003, a fall 2003 presidential gala, and the grand parade the
week of the event in 2004. Also, the event usually boasts keynote
speakers like Jimmy Carter and Bob Dole.

Univ. pulls out all
stops for Scholars

TALLIEJAMISON / T}IeRmg-t1m1Pbz'

failed to meet Bush’s ultimatum and leave Iraq. A brief survey showed mixed
feelings among W&L students and faculty about the war.

 

 

 

. Stop-in s

,/‘<.  A 4;’ € , _ 9: .
2

  

2,. _.

Fﬁ§§»¥‘~ ” W12.»

BY MEGAN MORGAN
SENIOR STAFF WRITER

Ifyou passed the Lexington Stop-In in recent weeks, you
probably noticed the shamrocks that cover its walls. These
shamrocks are not just decorations for St. Patrick’s Day, but
instead are part of a muscular dystrophy ﬁmdraiser hosted by
the regional Stop-In stores. Each store sells paper shamrocks,
which are signed by the customer that purchases them and
hung on the wall of the stores. The money ﬁ'om these sales is
used to send regional kids with muscular dystrophy to Roanoke
MDAcarrip at Smith Mountain Lake 4-H center. Forevery $525
they raise, they are able to send one kid to camp. In addition,
some of the money will also be used to give complete diagnos-

BY CAIEY ANDERSON
ASSISTANT NEWS EDITOR

F rom all over the country, poten-
tial honor scholars from the future
class of 2007 came to Washington &
Lee last week to compete for scholar-
ships at W&L ranging from half-tu-
ition to full tuition, room and board.
The honor scholars stayed in the
dorm rooms of current W&L fresh-
men, most of whom were either honor
scholars themselves, or members of
the Student Recruiting Committee.

Thebusyschedule ofthe honor schol-
ars included three interviews with three
diﬁerent panels, one comprised of stu-
dents, one of teachers, and one of admis-
sionsofﬁceoﬁicials. Theyalsoparticipated
in a plethora of on-campus events, includ-
ingtours, meetingswithfacultyandsports
ofﬁcials and other activities.

To be considered for an honor
scholarship, aprospective student must
ﬁll out an addendum to his or her Wash-

ington & Lee application. This adden-
dum is effectively one additional essay.
This year, students could have selected
from one of four topics, one on Thomas
Jeﬂ‘er_son’s quote “Were it left to me to
decide whether we should have a gov-
ernment without newspapers or news-
papers without a government, I should
not hesitate a moment to prefer the lat-
ter,” one on federal government in-
volvement in national poverty, one on
any profound work of art, literature, or
music that had affected the student, and
one on what the student believes to be
the most signiﬁcant technological ad-
vance of the Twentieth Century.

This year, just under 100 students
came to W&L to compete for an honor
scholarship; roughly half of the com-
petitors every year will end up receiv-
ing merit-based aid of some sort, ac-
cording to the Admissions office. Stu-
dents from 34 diﬁerent US. states, and
three different countries all came to
Lexington to compete, including a 10

SEE SCHOLARS, PAGE 2

hamrocks sponsor students for summer camp

tic test, ﬂu shots, dystrophin test to diagnose Duchenne, a
complete set of chest and spine x-rays, an initial and follow up
clinic visit as well as to buy wheelchairs, leg braces and com-

munication devices and repairing existing equipment.

So far the Stop—In stores have raised more than $23,000.
Lexington Stop-In has done particularly well, raising more than
$1270. Theyarethe secondliighest ﬁmdiaiserinthe region, and
employee Mike Hudnall says this is in large part “through the
generosity of the kids at Washington and Lee.” The Lexington
store hopes that by the time the ﬁmdraiser ends on March 31
theywillhave raised$l,575, enoughto sendthree kids to camp.
SHAMROCKS. (right) Community members helped sponsor local
children to camp  these shamrocks for $1 each. Stopln
employees then hung them on the walls and windows for all to see.

 

PAGE 2

 

Dittman makes sure we have classes

BY IMRAN NAEEMULLAH
CONTRIBUTING EDITOR

Trivia question: which Washing-
ton and Lee administrator affects the
lives of virtually everyone on campus,
yet strives to make his job as invis-
ible as possible? The answer is Scott
Dittman, the University Registrar.
Dittman has served as W&L’s regis-
trar since 1985, coordinating every-
_thing from institutional research to
registration to transcripts. His office,
located in the University Center, is
home to four other staffers, in addi-
tion to various student workers.
Dittman stresses that the Registrar’s
Office seeks to minimize its impact on
everyone, meaning that if his job is
done properly, most people shouldn’t
even know he’s doing it.

Dittman was raised in upstate
New York, and attended Colgate
University in Canton, N.Y., where he
was one of the first four computer
science majors in Colgate history.
He recalls that it wasn’t even a speci-
fied major, and that he and the three
others had to put together their own
major from an assortment of courses
offered. An unusual aspect of Can-
ton is that it is a small town of ap-
proximately 6,500 people, located off
of US-11, with two colleges within
its borders, much like a certain town
in southern Virginia. However,
Dittman did not go straight to W&L
after graduating in 1975.

Instead, he served for a brief pe-
riod in the Peace Corps, working with
the Boy Scouts of America in Barba-
dos. On the ﬂight from Miami to Bar-
bados, Dittman met a woman named
Susan, and it turned out she, too, was
going to be serving in the Peace
Corps. The two were married a couple

of years later, in 1978.

After returning to the United
States, Dittman was hired as the reg-
istrar at Muskingum College in Ohio,
alma mater to astronaut John Glenn.
He also pursued graduate work at
Western Illinois University in
Macomb, lll. Around the rnid—l980’s,
however, Dittman wanted to move to
Virginia. His parents had moved to
Williamsburg, and Susan was origi-
nally from Alexandria, so they headed
south, and Dittman began looking for
a job. When the position at Washing-
ton and Lee opened, he took it, and
has been at W&L ever since. He re-
members that his predecessor didn’t
even have a computer on his desk,
and PC’s were very rare at the time, so
part of the reason that Dittman was
hired was because he had a back-
ground in computers. One of his im-
mediate objectives was to help mod-
ernize the campus and move it forward.

One of Dittrnan’s favorite things
about his job is the fact that he gets
to interact with so many people, in-
cluding negotiating with faculty mem-
bers which classrooms they get to use
and advising students with their de-
gree work. That’s where Dittman some-
times has to be very careful, because
he says that every year he has to hold
a couple of uncomfortable conversa-
tions with students where he informs
them that they may not be able to
graduate with their class because of
unfulﬁlled credits. Fortunately, they
are often able to resolve it, but
Dittman says that there are cases
where a student ﬁnds out two nights
before graduation that he will in fact
not be graduating, and this is some-
thing Dittman hates doing.

In addition, Dittman serves on
various University committees, in-

   
    

and grades

jI=.B BROOKS / T/re Rrrrg-rm P/yr

DITTMAN. Dittman supervises  from drop / add to the ﬁve—year academic calendar

cluding the one on Courses and De-
grees and Faculty Executive Comniit—
tee. He is in fact a standing member of
these, serving as Secretary, and has
served on committees like the Foreign
Studies Committee. Through these,
and his work in the ofﬁce, Dittman has
gotten to know many faces around
campus. This, he says, is the best part
about being at Washington and Lee,
getting to know so many different
people.

Going forward, Dittman would
like to see W&L continue to modem-
ize its computer systems. He would
like to see the registration process
continue to improve, offering, for ex-
ample, drop/add facilities online in-
stead of on paper. He wants to see
new software installed that lets stu-
dents view their business ofﬁce ac-
counts and see their financial aid pack-
ages online. He emphasizes that his
office’s goal is always to be as unob-
trusive as possible, conducting an
efﬁcient operation day in and day out,

so that the W&L community can ex-
pect a consistent experience whenever
they visit the Registrar’s Office.

Outside of work, Dittman enjoys
spending time with his family. He has
three children, daughters Sarah Anne,
19, and Griffin, 17, as well as his son,
Clay, 13. Sarah Anne is a sophomore
at Texas Christian University, while
Grifﬁn and Clay are in high school and
middle school, respectively, right here
in Lexington. Susan, his wife, is the
president of the Rockbridge Area
Recreational Organization (R.A.R.O.),
and was the founder of the women’s
volleyball team at W&L. Dittman is
also involved in General’s Christian
Fellowship, and enjoys volunteering
in the community on a regular basis.

Although he may not see most
people on a daily basis, Dittman’s
work certainly affects nearly every-
one on campus, and the W&L com-
munity is certainly grateful for the
great service he and his office pro-
vide.

AMICUS, FROM PAGE 1

(1978).

Powell earned both his 1929 B.A
and 1931 J .D. from W&L.

Shank has been following these
cases from the appellate level on a le-
gal listserv.

“There’s been a tremendous

amount of discussion among attor-
neys about recent rulings,” Shank
said.

The Supreme Court likely decided
to hear the Michigan cases after sev-
eral of the federal courts of appeal re-
turned conﬂicting opinions, she said.

For example, the ﬁfth Circuit’s
Hopwood v. State of Texas (2000)

 

Monday- Sunny, 67/41

I Lexington

Forecast

ruled that it was unconstitutional “to
elevate some races over others,” while
the sixth Circuit’s Grutter v. Bollinger
(2002) recognized “compelling state
interest in narrowly tailored” diversity
programs.

The 12 federal courts of appeal
are second in authority only to the
Supreme Court. ’

, pE-mail news briefs to
z'@rvlu.edu

 

“Sometimes the Supreme Court
will wait until there has been a num-
ber of briefs filed and research done
before hearing a case,” Shank said.

The Supreme Court will hear oral
arguments before the Supreme Court
on April 1. Its decision will likely be
made before the July 1 end of its cur-
rent terrn. I

    

IH

MONDAY. MIRCII 24. 2003; _

SCHOLARS, PR()l\l l’.~\(}H 1

cal student from Lexington.
Reactions from the honor scholars were overwhelmingly positive. Ben
Accinelli, from Dubuque, Iowa, said “The school really is a great place.

you could really ask for.”

“During the interviews, it didn’t seem like a grilling session, just like
the people were trying to talk to me and get to know me,” said Matthew
Loar, of Litteton, Colorado.

When asked what their favorite part of their trip to W&L was, the
honor scholars were fairly unanimous.

Katie Bray, Westminster, Maryland- “Salemo’s.”

Dave Kronenfeld, Greensboro, North Carolina— “Salemo’s.”

Christina Chick, Newmarket, New Hampshire- “Salemo’s.”

Kyle Vinson, Whitsett, North Carolina— “Deﬁnitely Salemo’s.”

congratulations!

The Ring-tum Phi won the following awards
at the 2003 Virginia Press Association
college journalism competition.

lst place—Picture story or essay, J eb Brooks.
1 st place—Column writing, Timothy Smith,
“Absolute Fratlord.”
2nd place-Headline writing,-Katie Howell.
2nd place—Column writing, Sam LaGrone,
“The Guy Next Door.” T
. 3rd place-Art--Informational graphics, Katie Howell.
E 3rd place—General news writing, Andrew Latirner.
3 3rd place-Editorial writing, Nicholas Ramsey.
3rd place—Sports pages, Sports staff.

 5:1 - '53.ﬂ@0 for your  Gemr.q:II=
in just 3 h-ours!
" lzztlrridr ”=sz:'ng ii I4,  as 2;. " ,' _j

       

asicélixzxée I§.l‘¥!3,§.'-.'.3.iZ%l§“l,£{ ta 3:» %'.<Jr:« 2z:*vr.ra°:’§w.s iris ?"2I,l5§"‘§. .ixr$l '5-t.!?.F3°.“.*.?,’:35
Fisnir$n'r?¢s.iu.g -::la2es rm: fil£r'§.§§ r;u3r.'kiy. tier a<.«ri'lz— rim pe~:rg;,r-.-mi; rim. a<.=r:«r€>».3

anus

§'i.<rr.I‘ l"Ir“s’im’r‘r.5 .’.§l‘2Ir.Iw-‘_,'?.Ir £'r.tr‘3r*§z-' fir; :r£2*rIi.ia r.=_'::*.

388-922.‘

     

-32.38 - vrww.cara1pusftrnIira:%ser.cem: I

Undergraduates, law
students will interact this week

BY jar; BROOKS
Pll()T() I:I>IToR

University School of Law, was constructed in 1976. Since
its construction, students from the two schools have not

Tuesday- Partly Cloudy, 72/44
Wednesday- Partly Cloudy, 70/45
Thursday— Partly Cloudy- 51/31
Friday- Partly Cloudy, 58/41
Saturday- Partly Cloudy- 65/42
Sunday- Partly Cloudy- 64/43

 

MONDAY, MARCH 24.

Future of Medicare Conference, All day, Moot Court
Room.

Early Modern England lecture, 7:30 p.m., Northen Au-
ditorium.

TUESDAY, MARCH 25.

Alice Steinbach will speak at the Women at Work se-
ries, 12:00 p.m., University Center Room 114, R.S.V.P.

University Wind Ensemble concert, 8:00 p.m., Lenfest
Center.

WEDNESDAY, MARCH 26.

Woodrow Wilson Fellow Alice Steinbach will speak,
7:30 p.m., Lee Chapel.

THuRsDAY, MARCH 27. .

Celebrating Student Success Gala Awards Announce-
ment, 7:00 p.m., Lee Chapel.

One Acts, 2003, 8:00 p.m., Johnson Theater, Lenfest
Center.

FRIDAY, MARCH 28.

Public Lecture at 35th Institute on the Ethics in Jour-
nalism, Tim McGuire, 4:30 p.m., Williams School, Room
327.

One Acts, 2003, 8:00 p.m., Johnson Theater, Lenfest
Center.

SATURDAY, MARCH 29, 2003.

One Acts, 2003, 8:00 p.m., Johnson Theater, Lenfest
Center.

SUNDAY, MARCH 30, 2003.

One. Acts 7.003 R-00 n m lnhnsnn Theater I pnfegt

Bidlack receives grants

Richard H. Bidlack, a Washington and Lee University
associate professor of history and Russian area studies,
has been awarded a sabbatical fellowship from the Ameri-
can Philosophical Society for the 2003-04 academic year.

The grant, as well as a second one he has received from
the National Endowment for the Humanities, will support his
writing of a long-researched book on the 872—day siege of
Leningrad by Nazi Germany and its allies in World War H.

lim McGuire will speak

Nationally acclaimed ethicist Tim J. McGuire, also a
columnist, speaker and consultant, will deliver a speech,
“Ethical Stewardship: Expanding Our Notion of Ethical
Choice” on Friday, March 28 at 4:30 p.m. The talk will take
place in Room 327 of Washington and Lee University’s
Williams School of Commerce, Economics, and Politics.

The lecture, which is the centerpiece of a two-day
symposium, involving students and practicing jouma1-
ists from wide geographic and diverse professional areas,
is free and open to the public.

George Singleton will speak

Author George Singleton, a ﬁction writer and teacher
whose most recent collection of short stories, “The Half-
Mammals of Dixie,” has received national acclaim, will be
presenting a reading and book signing on Monday, March
24, at 4:30 p.m. in Northern Auditorium.

The reading is sponsored by The Arthur and Marga-
ret Glasgow Endowment Committee of Washington and
Lee University. The event is free and open to the public.

Environmental racism panel approaches

A panel discussion on “Environmental Racism and
the Rise of the Environmental Justice Movement” will be
held Wednesday, March 19, at Washington and Lee
University’s School of Law.

The discussion is at 6 p.m. in Classroom A at the law
school. A reception will follow the event, which is co-
sponsored by W&L’s Environmental Law Society and the
Black Law Students Association.

Run for law on Saturday

This Saturday, W&L and VMI students and statf as well
as Lexington residents, will participate in the Public Interest
Law Students Association’s run for the law, a 10k race beneﬁt-
ting up and coming law students. Warm-ups start at 7: 15 at
the Rockbridge Library, and the race will ﬁnish at the Ruins.

Proceeds will beneﬁt the Public Interest Law Stu-
dents Association Summer Fellowships — a non—profit

Across the world’s longest single span concrete
arched footbridge is the Washington and Lee University
School of Law. Lewis Hall will be opened to undergradu-
ates on Tuesday, March 25, 2003. The Student Leader-
ship Committee will match interested undergraduate and
law students for a day of classes.

Lewis Hall, the third home of the Washington and Lee

mingled much. Event organizers hope to increase interac-
tion and help undergraduates learn what law school is all
about.

Tuesday’s festivities are part of the larger “Get Across
the Bridge” initiative. The program is designed to “better
law and undergraduate student relations.” The proposed
bar in the John W. Elrod University Commons aims to
accomplish this same goal.

Executive Committee report, March 17,2003

BY CALEY ANDERSON
ASSISTANT NW3 IIDITOR
The Executive Committee spent most of its Mon-

day, March 17 meeting discussing modifications to the
curremt organizational funding policy. It was decided

that the Executive Committee will now be able to fund
organizational expenses related to telephone usage and
mileage for car transportation. Also discussed was
the possibility of funding religious organizations, how-
ever, the EC did not act at this time to either approve or
disapprove the funding of such clubs.

The Cadet Program Board
is proud to present

The Pat McGee Band

March 28, (83 at 8 p.m.

in Cameron Hall

Lexington, VA

/I

Nice brick buildings and lots’of friendly people, I don’t know what more 1

 

  

BRETT ‘ 1‘. KIRVCAN

OPINIONS EDITOR

- 

.E'DU

Mom, MARCH 24, 2003



Sing Snabes as Unsung General

The competition for the John W. Elrod Un-
sung General of the Year is again upon us and
chances are that the winner won’t be all that
unsung.

The nominations are in and many of the
nominees are the same faces we see again and
again on the school’s website, in university pub-
lications and in admissions material. Truly, these
people are many of the brightest lights in the
Washington and Lee community, but is not the
purpose of the competition to recognize those
students who “work hard, behind the scenes,
to make W&L all that it is?”

Samantha Snabes is, far and away, the nomi-
nee who best fulfills the vision of a hard-working
student who donates her time both on campus
and in town to make W&L and Lexington better
places. Her dedication to acaderriics, athletics,
extracurricular activities and volunteering in the
community, combined with her low profile, sets
Snabes apart as an example of a General doing
good work without sufficient recognition.

Snabes is a team leader for Young Life at
Rockbridge County High School. Amy Blevins
describes her as “very dedicated” and adds that
she “pours her life out for those kids.” Andy
Dewhurst comments that “it seems as if Young
Life is her only activity. She is totally committed.”

Snabes saves in other ways as she volun-
teers for the Lexington Lifesaving Crew where
she is on call from 6 p.m. to 6 a.m. up to two
nights a week.

She is also a student manager at the Snack

: Bar. Her supervisor, Isca King, praises her as

“an example” and “a good worker who cares
about her job.” King’s only complaint is that
Snabes has not “been too good about punctual-
ity,” but “probably because she is so involved.”

Athletics, too, are a Snabes specialty. She is
a star of both the cross-country and track teams.
In fact, she is featured this week in the Phi for
her excellence in the Roanoke Invitational.

But the long list of involvement doesn’t end
there. Snabes is second chair viola in the or-
chestra, a Peer Tutor, a Resident Assistant in
Gaines Hall and a volunteer for Women in
Technology and Science (WIT S).

Finally, Snabes is not a traditional student.
She transferred to W&L from Evangel Univer-
sity in Springﬁeld, Mo., after her freshman year.

We urge W&L to celebrate a truly unsung
General this year and honor Samantha Snabes.

‘ troops as liberators

-4.

 
  

'te of the Week

“The criminal little Bush has committed a

crime against humanity.”
~Saddam Hussein, orhis double,
on Iraqi state TV

J. Sam Slicer, 1898L
Katie J . Howell

Brett T. Kirwan
Catherine C. Guy

J eb Brooks

Erin Julius

Caley Anderson
Tallie Jamison

Founder

Editor in chief
Opinions Editor
Arts & Life Editor
Photo Editor
Sports Editor
Asst. News Editor
Photographers
Copy Editor Donny Banks
Business Manager
Circulation Director
Advertising Assistant

Thomas Worthy
Henry Grimball
McQueen Calvert

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee Univer-
sity, Lexington, Virginia. The Washington and Lee Publi-
cations Board elects the Editor in chief, but The Ring-tum
Phi is otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible submis-
sions and letters. All submissions must be e-mailed to
phi@wlu.edu or in the University Center mailbox by 5
p.m. Friday to appear in the following week’s edition. The
Ring-tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for con-
tent and length. Letters and colurrms do not necessarily
reﬂect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Ad-
vertising does not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi
or its staff. This newspaper observes current court deﬁni-
tions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Mailing Address: University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Street Address.‘ 31 Washington Street
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Fax: (540) 462-4059
Email: phi@wlu.edu
http://phi.wlu.edu

“Tar: :R.l}{'(}.l~"i“i_7??~.i Pa:

PINIONS

Op. Iraqi Freedom:

“You just arrived. You’re late.
What took you so long? God help you
become victorious. I want to say hello
to Bush, to shake his hand. We came
out of the grave,” wept Aj ani
Saddoun Khlis as U.S. Marines liber-
ated his city of Safwan.

“Americans very good,” added
Ali Khemy. “Iraq wants to be free.”

The liberation of Iraq has begun
and the tragedy of America’s under-
taking is that we waited 12 years to
correct the mistake we
made in 1991. Around
the country, Iraqis are
greeting American

   
  

RIGHT OF THE AISLE
BRETT T. KIRWAN ‘O4

and sharing with them pictures of their
relatives who had been tortured and
killed by Saddam’s murderous regime.
Although ignorant protesters around
the world may not recognize it,
America’s invasion of Iraq is bring-
ing freedom to the Iraqi people.

In fact, several former human
shields who have returned ﬁom Iraq
have changed their tunes. Kenneth Jo-
seph, who recently returned to Jordan,
reports that his experience with actual
Iraqis has “shocked him back into real-
ity,” and that they “told (hirri) they
would oomniit suicide ifAnierican bomb-
ing didn’t start. They convinced (him)
that Saddam was a monster the likes of
which the world had not seen since
Stalin and Hitler.” Another writes in the
United Kingdom’s Sunday Telegraph
that he was told by a Baghdad taxi
driver, “Of course the Americans don’t
want to bomb civilians. We want
America to bomb Saddam.”

Our men and women in uniform
have been training specifically to
avoid civilian casualties and the
record so far has been one of unprec-
edented success. There are no— ab-
solutely zero— reports of consider-
able civilian casualties. Only Iraqi
State TV has accused coalition forces
of targeting schools, hospitals and
Iraq’s infrastructure.

Our purpose was highlighted
when the war began, not with a mas-
sive bombing campaign or a swift in-
vasion, but a surgical and limited strike
targeted at Saddam and other top lead-
ers. Truly, this is not a war against Iraq,
but a war against Saddam, his sons,
their cabal of cruelty and the depraved,
brutal regime they lead.

This war is a just war and one
that will hopefully be only the first
step in remaking a free, democratic,
secular Middle East. Moreover, a
former Middle Eastern prime minister
told UPI, “If the U.S. can get a new
Iraq to recognize Israel as a quid pro
quo for a final Palestinian settlement,
others will fall into place—— Syria,
Saudi Arabia, and the other Gulf
states. Iran would then have to pull
back its military support for
Hezbollah.”

Now that the liberation has be-

gun, one wonders what will happen
after the bullets stop ﬂying and
peace has ﬁnally come to Iraq after
24 years of Saddam’s rule?

 

“Bates.”
-Ricky Busby ‘05

“Pat Casey, a.k.a. P-Dolla.”

Firstly, the United States has
pledged that it will work closely with
the United Nations and non-govem-
mental organizations in post-war Iraq
to bring humanitarian to the belea-
guered nation as swiftly as possible.
The UN’s Oil for Food program will
be kept in place in the immediate fu-
ture to provide the Iraqi people with
the necessities of life.

Secondly, America has already
spent $76 million dollars on

prepositioning hu-

manitarian aid, di-
’ saster relief and refu-

gee assistance mate-

rial with an addi-
tional $170 million “in the pipeline.”
The government has already set
aside $90 million worth or over
121,000 tons of food.

Additionally, the government has
a strong and sensible plan to oversee
the rebuilding of Iraq and her transi-
tion to a stable, pro-Westem democ-
racy. Initially, Iraq will be run by the
U.S.  General Tommy Franks
is the commander of all forces in the
region and Lieutenant General Jay
Garner has been appointed the head
of the Pentagon’s Office of Recon-
struction and Humanitarian Assis-
tance. He is already in Qatar building
his team. Lieutenant General John
Abizaid, an Arabic—speaking graduate
of West Point, will be the top military
commander in Iraq.

Also, teams of ex-ambassadors
and other diplomats will oversee each
of Iraq’s ministries and will form a sort
of shadow government to run Iraq in
the interim. Michael Mobbs has been
appointed to oversee the creation of
a civilian government and Barbara
Bodine has been named as one of three
regional rulers.

Of course, the American govem-
mental apparatus that will control Iraq
after Saddam is defeated has the goal
of returning Iraq to the Iraqi people
as soon as possible. Immediately, an
Interim Iraqi Administration will be
created to assist the Americans and
begin the process of drafting a new
Constitution, freeing the schools, re-
building the nation’s infrastructure,
bringing the oil ﬁelds back to full ca-
pacity and increasing women’s rights.

The process will not be easy.
Iraq has no recent tradition of civil
government and there is no emperor
to lend authority to an American mili-
tary governor such as McArthur en-
joyed in Japan. Iran, Saudi Arabia,
Syria and other nations who are
threatened by the prospect of a free
Iraq will not support or assist America
or the Iraqi people in the rebuilding
effort. Minority groups in both the
north and the south of the country
may present serious challenges to the
territorial integrity of Iraq.

However, American ingenuity
and good governance combined with
the will of the Iraqi people to build a
free nation will bring about a demo-
cratic government worthy of the long-
suffering Iraqi people.

  
 

o COURTESY mun/faxnav.r.w/tr
GOODBYI-:.Major David Gurfein tears down a portrait of Saddam in Safwan.

-Drake Staniar ‘05

 

 

“Anyone but me.’ ’
-Elizabetli Falco ‘05

PAGE 3

Liberation or Invasion?

Beginning last Wednesday, missiles struck Baghdad and the invasion of Iraq began. Is this war justiﬁed or a power grab by oil interests?

Freedom comes to Iraq

  
   

PHOTO COIllll=5\ arrrgwrii

FIREPOWER. Soldiers assigned to the 377th Field Artillery Regiment prepare for the invasion of Iraq.

War’s effectiveness uncertain

War is wrong. But just because I feel this
way does not mean that I think the converse
action is appropriate, either. At the risk of sound-
ing horribly rhetorical, the question that befalls
us on this grave occasion is, which action is
less wrong: action or inaction?

Neither action is “right.” War is never “right.”
But recent events have shown us that Saddam
Hussein is not to be trusted. He
heads a truly brutal regime, and
the things President Bush made
mention of in his speech to the

 
 


NICK RAMSEY ‘O3

ﬂashy war graphics on the likes of CNN, Fox
News Channel, and MSNBC.

Our generation has not really seen a full-
scale conﬂict of this caliber in our lifetime. Our
nation has never seen a military campaign of this
magnitude in which we were the first to strike
ever in its history. The results remain to be seen.

The White House has dubbed this crusade
as Operation Iraqi Freedom.
Television news broadcasters
continually refer to this as “the
war to liberate Iraq.” God only

nation, e.g., torture chambers,
rape rooms, the cutting out of tongues, do exist.

However, is this really the full explanation
of this military campaign? I doubt it. The truth is
that, on the way to deliver their payload on the
cities of Iraq,’ British and American planes are
traveling through the airspace of another coun-
try where similar problems exist. The abuse and
rape of prisoners in custody, especially women,
is a widespread problem in Turkey.

Truly, at least two other things are at stake
in making sure Saddam Hussein is removed from
power. The first is the fact that this man does
clearly have weapons that were outlined as ille-
gal by the rulings of the United Nations Secu-
rity Council. The fact that Iraqi missiles have
been ﬁred at Kuwait proves this point.

The second of these unnamed motivations is
clearly the rich oil wells of the country. Halliburton,
the company formally run by Vice President Dick

- Cheney has already been named as one of the

companies that will rebuild oil wells destroyed by
this military campaign. The company will make a
large sum of money from this venture, just as it did
when it rebuilt these same oil wells following Op-
eration Desert Storm. You know what they say
about history repeating itself.

However, this is not the facet of the war
that I like to dwell on. It merely leaves me scratch-
ing my head.

I recently watched “The Rock” with my
housemates tonight and could not help but no-
tice something. The music in the movie was strik-
ingly similar to that I have been hearing with

    

“Saddam Hussein.”
-George Singeltary ‘O5

knows, and only time will tell. I
am hopeful that the end result of this campaign
will lead to a better life for the people of Iraq.
Hopeful, but not yet convinced.

But the fact is that we, in the protective
bubble that is Lexington, cannot even fathom
what life is like for the typical Iraqi. We cannot
understand the fear of the 5 million in Baghdad
that listen as the bombs fall around them. We
cannot know what it must feel like for the 24
million citizens of this Arab country to hear that
those dropping bombs on them feel they are
actually liberating them.

And who can blame them for doubting? So
much of what will follow this war is uncertain. The
only thing we can do is treat it with the reverence
it deserves. Flashy graphics and dramatic music
aside, there are only a few things we can do.

We can pray that our actions are indeed the
lesser of two wrongs. We can pray for the safety
of our soldiers and of the innocent civilians of this
nation who must be feeling a fear I doubt I will
ever know. It is a fear of living in a country that is
at the center of a worldwide conﬂict started by but
a few. It is a fear of not knowing what will become
of one’s nation or if they will live to see it.

So if you happen to be praying for the
safety of those ﬁghting in this war, please also
remember to say a few words for the people on
the other side who have so much more to lose
or gain than we do.

Operation Iraqi Freedom should not be
about the war, but the rebuilding of a broken
nation once the smoke has cleared.

 

    

“Dean Watkins.”

-Anonymous Dorm Counselor

 

  

MQNDAY,MARCH 24, 2003

OPINIONS

Protesters, Dems all wrong

This week, as America begins its
war with Iraq, President Bush will face
opposition on two fronts. Not only
will he encounter a spirited, although
probably unsophisticated, counterat—
tack from Saddam Hussein’s forces,
but he will also see considerable anti-
war contention, both at home and
abroad. Undoubtedly, this barrage of
opinion will consist largely of inap-
propriate protest.

Of course, loyal opposition to
war, regardless of its effect, benefits
the country as whole. It presents the
nation with an alternative, honest per-
spective to a conﬂict, which can re-
veal ﬂaws in motive or tactic and ben-
eﬁcially alter a war’s course or even
bring its run to an end. Most of the
opposition to the war in Iraq, how-
ever, is disloyal in motive or substance.

The Democratic politicians who
oppose America’s involvement in the
Middle East, for the most part, do so
in order to exploit an opportunity to
chip away at President Bush’s cred-
ibility and popularity. However, war
is the most inappropriate of situations
in which to seek a forum for political
advancement.

When politicians relentlessly at-
tack the leader of our country over a
conﬂict which, unless you oppose the
removal of an abominable, violent re-
gime, seems rightly initiated, it shows
not only disrespect or discourtesy but
disloyalty. Their beleaguering of such
a leader reveals nothing but selfish
ambitions of personal power and
demagogic methods of achieving
such ﬁlthy aspirations. It is always
the easier task to try to impugn the
advocate of an unprovoked war. Presi-
dent Bush and others who defend
America’s involvement demonstrate
not only bravery but keen foresight
for the positive consequences that
will come of this war.

Similarly, expressing distress for
the Iraqi people offers no more an ac-
ceptable an excuse for opposing the
war. With the exception of those per-
manently and universally opposed to
war in general, most of today’s liber-
als protest simply because it is the
most popular, safe, seemingly kind
route. They argue
that they oppose the
war in order to pr_,o—’ V
tect the safety ‘of ‘
Iraq’s civilians.

First of all, this conﬂict ultimately
intends to protect her citizens through
the removal of a dictator who ruth-
lessly and arbitrarily punishes his
subjects. Therefore, thwarting the war
effort in fact undermines their very
purpose for contradicting it.

Secondly, America’s military
trains with the sole purpose of injur-
ing as few of civilians as possible,

 
 

nmnanmwm

ARSENAL or DEMOCRACY. Two thousand pound joint Directional Attack Munitions
GDAM’s) are lifted up to the ﬂight deck of the USS Harry Truman in preparation
for bombing sorties in the opening days of Operation Iraqi Freedom.

and, despite the recent sensational-
ized arguments otherwise, it has done
so in modern years. So often today,
famous artists stand against the war.
Often they oppose it simply in hopes

of gaining notoriety
advocating
peace. This igno-

,.DQE1:l¥_li;l1}ll£§:Q§_......._._  seems as 

pugnant as protest-
ing the war due to ulterior political mo-
tives.

Finally, there are those who op-
pose the war because of the belief that
the United Nations is the authority
that should be disarming Iraq. While
those who oppose the U.S. and coali-
tion efforts on this basis have good
motives, they are naive. The United
Nations has had more than a decade

to force disarmament. It has become
clear that there will be only one way
to manage the problem of Saddam
Hussein.

Other countries, despite their at-
tempts to make it seem as though they
have some ideological qualm with war
in Iraq, oppose the war simply be-
cause it is a difﬁcult, dangerous, ex-
pensive task. They understand the
imminent threats poised by Hussein’s
regime and they realize that, at some
point, his government must be
toppled for the safety of the world.
But they would rather America risk its
men, its resources, and its reputation
to get the job done for order. Fortu-
nately for these countries and the
world, some nations are willing to ex-
pend the effort necessary for peace.

crowd.”

CORRECTIONS from Issue 23, March 17, 2003

The bylines of “W&L will host race conference” and “Meeting draws crowd” were incorrect. Megan
Morgan is the author of “W&L will host race conference” and Kyle Wass is the author of “Meeting draws

Che Guevara’s last name was rriisspelled in “Tasteless campaign poster brings porn to campus.”

 

Do you have opinions?

Do you want everybody know what they are?
Do you want to be an editor next year?

If so, the Phi Opinions section is the place for you!

Contact Editor Brett T. Kirwan at X5129 or kirwanb @ wlu.edu.

 

E

H! II-TU“. IITIUJ I. lI'f’l.-II-

DIXIE DIVAS

BOUTIQUE

I07 .El.lieWood Ave.

 

Winter Madness Sale

ﬁﬂfsr’ Jon:/Joe’ juicy Couturev
BCBG" '

“Cl"l.r\.i‘3CiIN(§ C i""lz’\Rl.,OTTl.:.S\"l l..I..E ONE. DRESS AT A TIME!’
On the UVA Corner

 

 

245-2217

There are now quite literally
bombs over Baghdad, and it appears
that “Iraqi dictator” may be the most
endangered species on the planet, if
not already extinct. It seems that “UN
Diplomat” may not be far behind.

The early stages of this war
have proved the perilous position
not only of the Iraqi dictator, but also
of the United Nations. Its obstinacy
in refusing to enforce their own reso-
lutions smacks of hypocrisy and
fecklessness. Saddam was in “mate-
rial breach”— as defined by the
United Nations— of Resolution
1441, yet, because of the personal
motivations of a few countries, the
diplomats did what diplomats do—
talk, and above all, avoid action.
These “fearless diplomats” were led
by none other than the French, who
couldn’t ﬁght their way out of a pa-
per bag. I mean, you know how you
can identify a French tank, right? It
only goes in reverse.

Ironically, France’s determina-
tion to stand in the coalition’s way at
the diplomatic table may have proved
France’s irrelevance. France used its
veto power to force the United States
from leading the war with the UN’s
blessing, but the United States and
its coalition partners will still accom-

plish its goal of ridding the world of
Saddam Hussein.

In the end, the only thing
France proved was that it has no
justiﬁcation for its status as a Secu-
rity Council permanent member.
They can complain about the United
States all they want, but, in the end,
our government
will not be cowed
into foregoing the
maintenance of its
safety to satisfy a
European also-ran suffering from an
attack of jealousy. France has
proved that diplomacy is only ef-
fective as the sheath for the sword.

A couple of weeks ago, I wrote
that the United Nations diplomats
faced a test: they could enforce their
own mandate (by forcing Saddam to
disarm) "or face the fact that the only
things diplomats were good at is
double—parking. Despite the United
Nation’s initial opposition, America
and its allies seem poised to give the
United Nations another chance by
building a UN—lead coalition to re-
build post—war Iraq.

The UN has been offered a sec-
ond chance at redemption; unfor-
tunately, early signs suggest they
will be following the old adage, “the

 
 

PAGE 4;

United Nations commits suicide

only second chance in life is the 0

chance to make the same mistake
twice.” Predictably, our old friends,
the French, are promising to veto any
plan that includes a United States or
British team leading the humanitar-
ian effort.

Jacques Chirac claims that not -
doing so would be to if

RIGHT ON!
ioHN HEATH ‘O4

justify the war after
the fact.

All the .
needed justification?

for war, comes when .-
one looks at the Scud missiles the 3

Iraqi forces ﬁred at the coalition-led

troops last week. According to the 4

UN weapons inspectors, those mis-
siles were to have been destroyed.

The United Nations has proved
a total failure in the Iraq crisis. If the
member nations carmot stomach the
courage to stand up to a schoolyard
bully, who, by the way, can’t back up
his rhetoric, then the Untied States
has no reason to continue to support
the diplomatic black hole. Ifyou need
further proof of the UN’s current lu-
nacy, look no further than the incom-
ing chair of its disarmament comniit—
tee— Iraq.

Hopefully, the world will begin
to understand that the UN couldn’t

‘I
i

Letters to the Editor

Peace cranes not anti-war

Dear Editor, ,

Has the Phi ventured so far to the Right these days
that reality and research count for less than whatever
happens to be on the prejudiced editorial staff ’s mind
at the moment? I’m referring to the Staff Editorial in last
week’s (March 17) issue.

Had the editorial staff bothered to actually talk to
Professors Ujie or Ikeda, they might have discovered
that asking students to fold origami cranes was not an
anti-war statement, but a pro—peace statement. This is
not a difficult distinction.

The arrogance and inﬂexibility of thinking dis-
played in your staff editorial is the reason most of the
nations of this world choose not to support our inva-
sion Iraq; it is what makes the world believe we are the
terrorists. If they are right, and we truly are a nation
against peace, then count me out of this war and of this
country.

Sincerely,
David Hicks ‘03

Peace cranes appropriate political statement

DearEditor,

The Staff Editorial of March 17 criticized the
W&L Japanese Professors Ikeda and Ujie for pub-
licly expressing controversial views as a Depart-
ment, and labelled their action “academic irrespon-
sibility.” I disagree with this editorial because the
facts are distorted and because it shows a poor un-
derstanding of academic responsibility.

The editorial accuses the professors of “ac—
tively pressing” the students “by asking them to
participate in this activity.” What the professors
did was merely to call attention to the project; the
students were never forced to fold a crane. They
had the freedom not to participate, and there was
no threat posed on their grades for doing so.

Suppose this was a political statement of the
Japanese language and literature faculty, express-
ing opposition to the government’s standing on war.
Should faculty members refrain from publicizing their
political views? Is this “academic irresponsibility?”

I do not believe that faculty members violate
their responsibilities by expressing their political
views in public, whether controversial or not. If a
politics professor publishes a book on one issue or
another, isn’t this what he or she is doing? ‘Open
discussion is critical, not just from the viewpoint of
freedom of speech, but also for Washington and
Lee as a liberal arts university. One of the advan-
tages of a liberal arts education is that one is ex-
posed to various perspectives. Even if the profes-
sors’ expertise is “far removed from the issue at
hand,” as the editorial phrases it, I do not see this
as a reason to refrain from displaying opinions on
peace. Peace is a concern for us all; there is no lay
or expert on this subject.

Sincerely,
Junko Kannami -Exchange

Japanese prof.’s unfairly maligned

Dear Editor,

I am writing in response to the staff editorial in the
March 17 issue regarding the origami peace cranes. I am
the primary student who helped plan this activity. While
I could potentially comment on almost every remark made
in the editorial, I believe most rational persons are per-
fectly capable of fomiing their own opinion regarding most
of the arguments presented by the author. There are a few
issues I would like to address directly, however.

First of all, I believe the author has misconstrued this
activity as an anti-war statement. We are not “mounting a
politically—charged campaign in opposition to the libera-
tion of Iraq.” The origami crane is a universal symbol for
world peace. I take offense to the claim that we are arbi-
trarily assigning a Japanese cultural practice to “contro-
versial politics.” I wonder at the logic of transforming the
phrase “world peace” into an “unmistakably political opin-

even govern a banana republic.

ion.” Are we not all for world peace—pro—war and anti-
war alike? I would imagine that there are very few, if any,
individuals in this community who oppose the concept of
world peace. All sides want eventual peace——those who
support the war, those who oppose it, and everyone in
between. The argument comes down to a matter of the
method. Folding origami cranes is a Japanese cultural
activity that has always encouraged the folder to wish for
a peaceful world. We thought it was a rather relevant
cultural activity considering the time and wanted to ex-
tend an invitation to the university community should
they have a desire to participate. For one person, folding

a crane may be his way of protesting the war. For another,‘

it may be in support of the peace that she believes this war
will bring. The political statement that each individual
may attach to the crane is not justification for the author’s"
criticisms. ‘
The author states that it is “wrong and ill—considered:
for any department. . .to display its opinions so publicly.”
An invitation to fold origami cranes does not express any
opinion with regard to the Japanese program (no “Japa-
nese Department” exists at Washington and Lee). Fur—i
therrnore, it is erroneous for the author to make assump-

tions as to either my stance on the war or the individual ~

stances of the Japanese language and literature profes-
sors. I have no knowledge of either Professor Ikeda of
Professor Ujie’s personal opinions on the war with Iraq on
any other political leanings, and I have taken practically
every class that they teach. This leads me to the aspect of
the editorial that angered me the most. 1

Thus far I have argued against the author’s claims‘
that the cranes are a political statement, but the author’s’

objections go beyond the activity itself. Finally, and per— .

haps most importantly, I am upset that the author felt the
need to attack the Japanese program and its professors so
maliciously and unjustly. I am the person who has sub-
mitted all of the campus notices regarding the cranes. All
notices stated “students of Japanese language and cul-
ture” were inviting the community to take part in this ac-
tivity. As the only person who has publicly attached her
name to the cranes, I would have been more than happy to,

discuss any concerns the author or anyone else had about ,

the way the event was presented. I was not aware that I_
needed to attach a disclaimer to every poster and campus
notice. I am sure had the author felt the desire to talk to
the professors directly about his or her concerns, both
would have been extremely open to suggestions. I am
saddened that instead we were all made aware of the
author’s discomfort only through an editorial.

Sincerely,

Jaime Muscar ‘04

The Phi responds:
Our StaffEditorial did not insult Professors Ujie
or Ikeda.It is our position that academic departments

have a responsibility to be neutral to students in mat- ‘

ters of opinion and should never support a contro-
versial opinion, however tangentially.

Lackmann letter should not have been printed

Dear Editors,

I write in response to your decision to print—
and your chosen headline for—Jack “Jackie”
Lackmann’s letter in the March 17, 2003, issue.

Your decision to print such an inarticulate letter
was a poor one. Lackmann’s letter lacks comments
that start or further communal dialogue; his incoher-

ence brings him, and this institution at large, little l

credit.

More seriously, I criticize your choice of head-
line. “Alumnus blames war on Jews” is in my mind
clearly inﬂammatory. Lackmann covers at least four
topics (most of them of interest only to himself). For
you to foreground his weak comments linking “weap-
ons of mass destruction,” “misunderstanding of Is-
lamic mentality and motive,” and his “freres” betrays
a lack of critical judgment. 

In the future, I hope you use your positions as
editors of a Washington and Lee publication to pro-
mote loftier goals than recent issues suggest.
Sincerely,

Sarah Wilson

‘I’

 

    

CAIHHRINEC.GuY
ARIS&l.IPEEDIIOR

V EMAlI.'GUY(@WIlIEDU
MONDAY, MARCH 24, 2003

i& LIFE

PAGE 5

I ‘Senior Meriggi distinguishes himself as unsung hero of Lenfest

He’s the unsung hero of Lenfest - the phantom

Vbehind the scenes, the silent conductor of the

5!

orchestra, the producer of endless possibility. He
takes what would appear to be a seemingly
impossible task and, with style, ease and finesse,
places it within the grasp of W&L’s Theater
Department. He is the driving force that makes
everything in the arts happen, and his name is Jeff
Meriggi.

Meriggi, a senior history major and dorm

\y' counselor, devotes his entire heart and soul to our

school’s fine theater department. His efforts include
all aspects of theater life: planning, organizing, and
funding new social events, gaining support from
the community at large through outreach and public
relations, building sets, assisting in the cooking for
the gourmet receptions, and designing
commemorative T-shirts for various programs and
productions. But his greatest success has been,
undoubtedly, his

work in Public
Relations. From ONTHEARTS
SP°“S°”“g 3 AURA LEIGH BIRDIX/ELL‘03

luncheon at the

‘ Sheridan Livery

with the help of his fellow Chi Psi brothers to
spreading the word around Graham-Lees and the
quad, Meriggi’s efforts, with the aid of Tom
Anderson, have significantly increased student
interest and attendance as well as the success of
productions. M

Anderson, who acts as Meriggi’s advisor, is the
assiduous, devoted and hard-working theater staff

‘V member who, according to Meriggi, seriously

“deserves a raise” for all he does for the theater
department. “He ‘has guided me the entire way, by
consistently offering me his opinions on what would

N or would not work.” The two work hand-in-hand and

together, making the productions at Lenfest possible
and professional. The two have grown to be good
friends.

Theater is Meriggi’s passion, and his efforts are

I for no other reason than the pursuit of his dream. “I

love to attend theater and I am involved because I enjoy

it.” He relates it to athletics and emphasizes the amazing 4

and beneﬁcial effects that student attendance has on
an actor’s performance. Seeing one’s peers in the
audience of one’s performance enhances the acting
experience and intensifies the moment. Meriggi
recognizes this and therefore dedicates much of his
efforts to filling in the seats and selling out the

Q’ performance.

Yet Meriggi does express one serious concern in
regards to his efforts. This is the issue of the lack of
much—needed pesos. Because of Meriggi’s

V overwhelmingly successful efforts in boosting the

toward success, Meriggi does not falter. He founded
the student organization “Theatre Outreach,” as
well as increased his lobbying to the Executive
Committee and Director of Student Activities. Along
with all ofthis, he also often sober drives to garner
more theater funding. “One of my long-term goals is
that W&L will recognize the theatre as an enjoyable
non—alcoholic activity that provides a respite from
the rigors of academic life.” He adds, “The
Department should receive more funding from the
administration.”

In an earlier column of mine, I mentioned a certain
incident that occured here three years ago when a
senior expressed his feelings of pessimism about the
production of musicals at W&L. I think I can justly
assert that he would be in complete disbelief at how
far the Theater Department has grown in these recent
years, in support and attendance, as well as the
quality and type of productions. Yet it was not
necessarily because of an a suddeniandidramatic
increase in the interest or talent of the newly
matriculated students. Quite on the contrary, these
two characteristics have probably always existed here
within the W&L community - they were just waiting
to be discovered. I feel sorry for that senior three
years ago - he truly missed out on Jeff Meriggi, who
has found, reconized and tapped the potential for
interest and talent here at W&L and brought the
theater department new respect, prominence, and
popularity.

LENFEsr’s UNSUNG HERO IN THE
ACT: Jeff Meriggi has done an
enormous amount for the theatre
department here at W&L. He is
shown here (left) with his theatrical
advisor Tom Anderson while they
are both involved in theatrical
construction. The two have
worked together closely since
]eff’s matriculation here. Seen
below is a Parent’s Weekend
beneﬁt held at Lenfest, which was
organized by Meriggi in an
attempt to gain money and
support from parents as well as
the rest of the W&L community.
Lenfest, the theatre departrnent,
and Washington and Lee
University as a whole will surely
miss Jeff when he graduates this
June.

B011-I rHmr)s<r>oIzI‘HsYt>F]IzH=MI:kIccI

Class: Through God’s grace

‘'5 amount of student attendance, the Theater
Department has actually lost money with its recent
productions.

How is this possible? When the students attend

..- for free, the Theatre Department loses revenue they
would have gained from selling tickets to the many
interested people in the community of Lexington at
large.

V Though this is a burdensome bump in the path

,1.

As a freshman, I couldn’t remember, so that you do not allow
believe how unlucky I was. The yourself to‘ fall into the abyss of
school year was nearing an end, but spring term depression.

if I realized, to my horror, that I would
not be through with exams until the and the blessing of the University
first weekend of June. All my Registrar, it is perfectly legal to take
friends at Marshall and WVU were only one class during spring term.

V home for the summer, while I was Only three credit hours are

still rotting away in the drabness of
Leybum or in the stuffy chambers
of Newcomb Hall. The thought
seemed unbearable. Why did I

f have to be in school for so much

V What’s the point of

longer? How was I going to get a
summer job when every other
college student was already back
working at home?

  

trimesters anyway?
Why can’t W&L be
like the other

, 1,, schools?

All of these questions were left
ringing in my frustrated mind. And
then I experienced my ﬁrst spring
term.

‘‘ For a school in the middle of

nowhere, W&L sure keeps us busy.
In the fall term, its Rush, Rush, Rush.
Then in the winter term, it’s the many

X joys of pledgeship and the build up

to Fancy Dress. By the time all that’s
all over, it’s on to worrying about
ﬁnals again. But, at the end of it all,
we reach the proverbial light at the

"7 end of the tunnel - the joys of Spring

Term
For six glorious weeks, we
ﬁnally are given the opportunity to

V. truly enjoy the place where we spend

the best years of our lives. Six
months of stress are forgotten in
favor of six weeks of relaxation and
fun. But in order to properly enjoy

'7, your spring term experience, there are

a couple of things you should

required. Use this privilege wisely.
I certainly recommend taking only
one class ifit’s within your means,
but just as a warning— having only
one class seems to correlate with a
general loss of motivation. Ask me,
I know.
Goshen: It’s peaceful, beautiful,
and reminds me of
beloved

.................................................................. .. my
ABSOLUTE FRATLORD boondocks back in
TIM SMITH ‘04

W.V. And it
shouldn’t be
missed. Just about any excuse can
be used to justify a Goshen trip. You
want a nice place to study. Or you
don’t have anything to study and
just want a nice place to relax. Or
you want to get wet. Or you want to
see Kappas in their bathing suits.
No matter the reason, Goshen is a
wonderful place to visit, and you
should go as much as possible.
Alumni Weekend: Iused to think
it would be the most boring weekend
of the year. But rest assured, some
alumni are even crazier than current
students, so the potential for
ridiculous fun is high. If you can
overcome the challenge of having a
drunken conversation with someone
from your fraternity who is 20 years
older than you, then you’re certainly
doing something right. '
Intramurals: Spring term
represents the climax of a long and
intense intramural year, and the ﬁnal
events are nothing to pass off.

Spring term provides light at end of tunnel

Softball is an annual classic. The
turkey trot brings individual
competition to its apex. And of
course, ultimate frisbee intramurals is
as good as it gets— and to all you
fraternities hoping to beat Lambda Chi
this year, keep practicing.

Road Trips: A key for spring term
scheduling is to leave yourself those
long weekends primed for road trips.
By playing your cards right, you can
have no class from Thursday to
Tuesday, leaving yourself 4 full days

to drive wherever your heart desires. .

In a classic spring term weekend, the
fabled Mr. Denbow and I took the
poop truck to Baltimore, catching an
Orioles game and eating crabs with
some random Denbow relatives. And
though my truck leaked about eight
quarts of oil during the trip, there was
much fun to be had.

Daily Irresponsibilities: All of
these things listed are fun in their own
right, but perhaps the greatest aspect
of spring term is the unlimited freedom
to do whatever you want. Unless
you’ve been cursed with tons of work,
you usually ﬁnd yourself with plenty
of time to kill. Throw a baseball. Have
a beer. Go watch Java in the Quad
(especially when Drunken Rusty
plays). The potential is there‘ its
your job to maximize it.

Spring term is not without its
cons. Inevitably, there are some
gloomy students who would rather be
home instead of living it up in Lex
Vegas until summer is in full swing.
But for the majority of us, going home
simply makes us want to be at school,
with our friends and our freedoms.
And, without a doubt, going home
makes us realize how glorious spring
term really is, and how much we look
forward to doing it all over again.

Film Society shows acclaimed drama

Hrrr. www.oNrnoN.coM Auaurs AIBHMOZ AM.jP(3

ONE DAY TO LIVE: Edward Norton plays a convicted drug dealer with 24 hours to get his life in order in Spike Lee’s 25th Hour.

FROM STAFF REPORTS

The Washington and Lee Film Society will present
the acclaimed drama 25TH HOUR (USA, 2002), directed
by Spike Lee. .

Screeningswill be at 7:30 PM on Friday and Saturday,

March 28 and 29, in the Troubadour Cinema. There is no '

charge for admission, but contributions are welcome. The
ﬁlm is rated “R” for violence, sexual references, profanity,
and drug use.

Adapted by David Benioff from his novel, this is an
elegiac account of the last day of freedom for a convicted
drug-dealer in contemporary New York City. Edward
Norton is superb as a man who has 24 hours to say
goodbye to his father, his girlfriend, his best friends, and
his dog, to ﬁnd out who betrayed him, and to regret his

own greed.

Set against the background of post-9/ 11 New
York, the ﬁlm is beautifully photographed (by the
cinematographer of F rida and Amores Perros), set to
a score by Terence Blanchard, and features a
marvelous cast, including Philip Symour Hoffman,
Brian Cox, Anna Paquin, Rosario Dawson, and Barry
Pepper.

Critics have lauded the f1lrn’s sense of atmosphere,
and A.O. Scott wrote in the New York Times that “Mr.
Lee approaches the overwhehning reality with sensitivity
and tact. His model, unlikely as it may seem, could be
‘The Rising,’ the Bruce Springsteen album that supplies
a song for the closing credits. An arnbience of sturmed
grief and a slightly giddy, slightly guilty feeling of
survival ﬂoat through the ﬁlm.”

 

 



&LIFE
ere in the world 1S Presi

  

lAoNDAY,lJ0VEMBER 18,2002

dent Burish? p

PRESIDENT BURISH TAKES OVER THE WORLD! President Burish is in the process of a whirlwind tour of the
United States with goals of increasing W&L’s financial merit as well as national acclaim. All information is

INFOGMPHIC BY KATE ow ANDJEB BROOKS / THE KlNG—lUM PHI

courtesy of Matthew McDermott (contributing editor for the R.ing—tum Phi) and Betsy Cossaboon (Executive
Secretary to the President). Stay tuned for further updates as Burish’s adventures throughout America continue.

BY CATHERINE C. GUY
ARTS & LIFE EDITOR

President Burish has embarked on a
nationwide tour ever since his arrival at W&L
this fall. He has visited 29 cities since August,
some of which he has been to more than once.

His aims on these excursions have
been manifold. The original idea behind
these trips was fundraising, but it has
evolved signiﬁcantly since the beginning.

While on the road, President Burish
spends the majority of his time addressing
and meeting with local alumni chapters in
the various cities.

Burish has also met with several of the
school’s larger donors to discuss plans for
Washington and Lee’s present and ﬁiture.
These meetings have been mutually

beneﬁcial, as they have provided Burish
with feedback from those with a love and
allegiance for the school while providing
the alumni with connections to the school
and an opportunity to stay active in
University affairs.

Interestingly, while in Chicago,
Burish was interviewed by the Chicago
Tribune. The interview occurred as a
result of his participation in a
conference.

Overall, by untertaking in these
voyages, Burish has been working hard to
garner publicity for school. By increasing
national awareness, affairs here at W&L
can only improve.

Contributing Editor Matt McDermott
and Betsy Cossaboon, Executive Secretary
to the President, contributed to this report.

President Burish’s Travel Schedule Charlottesville, VA Atlanta, GA
August 2002 through April 2003 Dallas, TX
February 2003-
Burish began in August 2002 in.... November 2002- Chicago, IL
A Washington, DC San Diego
New York Los Angeles March 2003- the current excursions...
San Francisco Tuscaloosa, AL
September 2002- New York San Antonio, TX

Roanoke,VA Dallas, TX Sweet Briar, VA

Portland, OR Greensboro, NC

New York, NY December 2 002- Winston-Salem, NC

Tampa, FL Chattanooga, TN

Charlotte, NC Boston, MA April 2003-coming up in the near
Richmond, VA Washington, DC future...

Memphis, TN Charleston, WV
October 2002- Hampden-Sydney, VA Houston, TX

Birmingham,AL Louisville, KY

Washington, DC January 2003- Honolulu, HI

Hot Springs, VA Atlanta, GA Roanoke, VA

Atlanta, GA New York, NY

BY KATE GUY
ARTS & LIFE EDITOR

Washington and Lee’s theatre
department will be presenting one
of its most popular and
entertaining events of the year this
coming week. That’s right, the
One Acts will be performed once
again.

The One Acts have played a
crucial role since the l970’s, when
W&L first got its now strong theatre
department.

This years productions include
the following; “Zoo Story”, written
by Edward Albee and directed by
senior Neal Willets, “Black
Comedy”, written by Peter Shafer
and directed by senior Emily Pace,
“Who Made Robert DeNiro King of
America?”, by Jason Katims and
directed by senior Kris Pollina, “The
Most Massive Woman Wins” by
Madeleine George and directed by
senior Bart Peters, and “Paper
Flowers” directed by junior Annie
Estrada.

The plays will be performed
this coming weekend, and will be
split into two separate bills. Bill

A, which is composed of “Who
Made Robert DeNiro King of
America?”, “Most Massive
Woman Wins”, and “Black
Comedy”, will be performed on
Thursday at 8, Saturday at 2, and
Monday at 8. Bill B, which is
composed of “Paper Flowers” and
“Zoo Story”, will be performed on
Friday at 8, Sunday at 2, and
Tuesday at 9. The bill was split
because if all ﬁve were performed
at once, “it would have been way
too long’,’, says senior director
Neal Willetts. The two bills are
each at least two hours in length,
and the directors decided that
splitting would be more beneﬁcial
in gaining student response.
This year, students can look
forward to an entertaining and
complex mix. There will be a great
mix of comedy, farce, slapstick, and
drama. “We have a little bit of
everything,” says Willetts. This
idea of a mix also extends to the
students involved in the
productions. This year’s actors
include everyone from senior
Theatre majors to freshmen with
little or no acting experience. There
will be student involvement from all

walks of campus life.

The students involved have
put in an enormous amount of effort
throughout the moths leading up to
this week. The Directors have been
preparing for this weekend since the
beginning of the school year, as the
Directing class that they are all
enrolled in is a two semester course.
They have been planning and
preparing for this since September.
The Directors held auditions before
Feb. break, and have been
rehearsing since. The actors and
directors receive a tremendous
amount of help from other classes
in the design department,
particularly the lighting and
costume design classes, both of
which have been preparing all
semester. In all, a lot of people have
done a lot of work to make the One
Acts wonderful.

Willetts says that, as a director,
he is most looking forward to
seeing the initial reaction of the
crowd on opening night. He is
anticipating seeing the audience
response to characters, blocking,
and dialogue.

This year will be unique in a
number of respects. For one thing,

One Acts will once again enthrall crowds

four of the ﬁve directors are new to
the directing capacity and thus are
extremely excited and enthusiastic
about their directorial debut. Many
of the actors are making their debut
on the stage as well. Also, the One
Acts this year will encompass “a
broad spectrum of issues all at
once,” says Willetts. “Most
Massive Woman Wins” deals with
the issues of body and self image
in women and society, while “Zoo
Story” addresses relationships and
“Paper Flowers” examines social
class.

The One Acts have had a
notoriously strong student
turnout and response for years,
as a result of the widely varied and
massive amount of student
involvement. Willetts feels certain
that each of the night
performances will come close to
selling out, if they do not sell out
completely. There are no tickets
required to see the One Acts, and
the performances are free for all
who are affiliated with the
Washington and Lee community.

So come out and support the
One Acts. You will certainly enjoy
It.

Pulitzer winner lectures

FROM STAFF REPORTS

Pulitzer Prize-winning writer
Alice Steinbach will deliver a lecture
entitled “A Short Guide to An
Interesting Life” on Wednesday,
March 26, at 7 :30 p.m. in Lee Chapel.
The lecture is free and open to the

Living Ertmp

or 463-9180

HOUSE FOR RENT
6 Tucker Street
3 BR/1 Bath
Large Kitchen,
Washer/Dryer,
Large Eeekyanﬂ w/ Eeck
$800/mo.
Call 458-5001,

(Please note:
Phone numbers have changed
since the last issue.)

public.

In a recent Booklist review,
Joanne Wilkinson said of Steinbach
“Like any skillful writer, she can make
you laugh, and she can make you cry,
and she sometimes does both, all
within the limitations of a column
fonnat.”

458-7157,
for details

 

   

 

 

PAGE 7

1,)

‘ll-El’.l3.E{(r'l‘=.?.tl‘l<Il

 

SPORTS

Track teams run
in Roanoke Invitational

BY MARY CHRISTOPHER
V SPORTS WRITER

At 7:00 Saturday morning the
Generals were off again, clad in their
blue warm-ups, ready to compete
in the Roanoke Invitational. The
weather was nice, which resulted
in enthusiasm,
but caution of

pwver-heating
and lack of hy-
dration. Under
the advice of
their coaches

Vthe team re-
mained under a
small grey tent
throughout the

‘(course of the
day and fo-
cused on their
goals for the
day.

‘’ The women
had strong per-
formances, as
usual. This in-

*vitational was a
testing opportunity for many of the
runners who competed in events
they do not typically run but were
anxious to try.

“IT he day started off with two brave
individuals willing to conquer the
10k, a 6-rnile race
on the track.
Well, their moti-

‘( .
vatron and de-
sire to achieve
resulted in a
third and fourth

Yplace ﬁnish for

Jessica Remmert

and Samantha

Snabes, finish-

ing at 44.58.94

‘the 5k, a very difﬁcult race! Frayer
ﬁnished ﬁfth with an outstanding
time of 20.07 and Christopher ﬁn-
ished tenth with a time of

—42l.28,Brown and Williamson also

showed strong performances with
twelfth and fourteenth place fin-
ishes.

Liz Twentyman, an 800-meter
runner, ran the 1,500 for the Gener-
als with a time of 5.48.74, a ninth
place finish. For the sprinting
events, Meredith Walker ran her
3200 in 28.87 giving her ninth place

and Kim Gunst ﬁnished ﬁfteenth
with her time of 29.76. Kim also ran
the 400m in 1.05.48, resulting in her
twelfth place ﬁnish for the event.

V

7 The Generals also competed in

several relays. The Distance Med-
ley Relay won ﬁrst place, due to
the strong performances of Erin
Johnson, Casey Sharpe, Liz
Twentyman, and a heroic finish
from Megan Ward. The 4 by 100m

   
   

RUSTY MEYER. Meyer ﬁnished with a
season personal record

relay team also performed well, giv-
ing them a seventh place ﬁnish.

The men also showed their
strengths on the sunny day at
Roanoke College. In the 100-meter
dash Brian Krupcak, Jonathan Brimer,
and Lee Stinnett all qualiﬁed for the
ﬁnals with times of 1 1.37, 11.55, and
11.86. In the ﬁ-
nals, Krupcak
won second
place with
Brimer in sixth
and Stinnett not
far behind in
eighth. In the
200-meter dash,
Brian had an-
other strong
race which re-
sulted in first
place with atime
of 22.72. Brimer
and Stinnett
also fought hard
earning them
fourth and ninth,
with times of
23.42 and 24.11
respectively.

In the 800-meter dash Norman
Senior, in his ﬁrst race of the season,
ran a 2.10.1 1, and Matt Reilly ﬁnished
with a time of2. 10.85. In the 1,500
Rusty Meyer had his head, and legs,
in the race giv-
ing him third
place with a sea-
son personal
record of
4.15.81.

A n 0 th e r
distance runner,
A n d 1' e w
Johnson, who
typically runs
the 1,500, had an

‘and 45.42.66. excellent 5,000m
Later on in runwithatime of
the day Betsey 16.34.40, athird
Frayer, Mary place ﬁnish.
'{Christopher, -  ammo." A The field
Ashley Brown, ERIN ]0I~{NSON.]ohns0n helped to Win competitors also
and Sarah the Distance Ledley in Saturday’s competedwellin
WI 1 l a m s o n Invitational. a variety of
fought through events. In the

shot put Emily Barker and Audrey
Walker earned ﬁﬁh and ninth place for
the women and Chris Walker received
eighth for the men.

In the women’s long jump
Meredith Walker won ﬁrst place. For
the men, Chris Sullivan also won ﬁrst
with Brian Krupczak receiving second,
it was a great day for the jumpers!

In the Javelin throw Sullivan
placed seventh and Gallagher eighth.
For the women J av throwers, Bethany
Dannelly placed third and Barker
placed sixth. Barker also performed well
in the Discus throw, earning her a sev-
enth place ﬁnish. High jump competi-
tor Angel Daniels won ﬁfth place for
her jump of 41’: 8inches.

The Generals once again showed
off their hard work in their strong per-
formances. And several members were
fortunate enough, like senior Sullivan,
to take home a “running crayon” T-
shirt to remind them of their hard work
at the Roanoke Invitational!

  

MONDAY, MARCH 24, 2003

Equestrian team wins Virginia Invitational, first win ever

W&L beats eight other teams to come out on top, sends several riders to Regiona/s on Saturday

BY ERIN JULIUS
SPORTS EDITOR

Washington and Lee’s Eques-
trian team competed in the UVA In-
vitational last Friday. The team beat
every team in the region to take home
the championship ribbon. Hollins
came in second, three points behind
W&L while UVA dropped two
points behind Hollins to take third.

Considering the competition,
W&L turned in some very strong
performances.

Kathy Wang, ’05, took fourth
place in the Walk’Trot, Captain Sa-
rah Michaels, ’04, too second
place in the Novice Flat and third
place in Novice Over Fences. Cap-
tain Heather Lancaster, ’03, took
fourth place in Intermediate Over
Fences.

Two freshmen turned ir1 outstand-
ing ﬁrst-place ﬁnishes. Natalia Max-
well placed ﬁrst in Advanced Walk/

Trot/Canter. CaitlinLanetookﬁrstinOpen
Flat and in Open Over Fences.

Maxwell and Lane qualiﬁed for
Regionals.

Randolph-Macon Woman’s Col-
lege, Lynchburg, Bridgewater,
Radford, Longwood and James Madi-
son University all made appearances
at the UVA Invitational.

This Invitational victory marks the
ﬁrst time in W&L Equestrian history
that the team has officially won a com-
petition. UVA’s Invitational has al-
ways been very selective, as only the
“ int riders” or very best riders at each
school are allowed to compete.

It’s a, “very difficult region,” said
team member Sarah Murray, “It’s an
incredible accomplishment for the
team that at this show, we won our
ﬁrst championship and took home the
High Point Rider award”.

“We’re such a young team. . .to
be winning is wonderful for us,” said
Murray.

I=Hon>a>tRrEsvoEc-uniNIA\tE
HIGH JUMP. Open Rider Caitlin Lane won the High Point Rider Award at the UVA Invitational on Saturday and earned two first places at the Oak Ridge Medal earlier this year.

PHOTO RIEWOFC*.Tl*lY\)l’AN(3

RIDING TEAM.(back row) junior Sarah Michaels, senior Liza Tucker, freshman Caitlin
Lane, freshman Natalia Maxwell, senior eather Lancaster, freshman Sarah Murray,
Coach Carolyn Hedrick—\X/illiams. (front row) Sophomore Kathy Wang, Karly

Williams.

Participate in trivia tourney to help Hospice

The Washington and Lee Law
class of 2005 will be hosting a cam-
pus-wide Sports Trivia Tournament
called “The General’s Cup” from
April 1-3. Proceeds from the entry
fees will be benefiting the

Rockbridge Hospice.

Two people can enter the The
General’s Cup for $10. The win-
ning team will receive a prize pack-
age worth more than $200. The
package will include gift certiﬁ-

cates to the Sheridan Livery, ll
Pallazzo, University Sportwear,
Pete’s BBQ, Frank’s, Salerno’s,
City Subs & Steaks, Main St. Mar-
ket and a music store.

All students are encouraged

to participate in this fun event, rais-
ing money for a worthy cause.
West Virginia University held a tour-
nament similar to this last year and
was able to get more than 100 stu-
dents involved.

Vote Samantha Snabes for unsung General!

 

 

 

‘    
an a new Scooter 
*     
sew .ti:agne_t¥a Awe
aauma  Va. zu.-re
.,   rmarzemaaa
  ma  Atoms: or
,, arm: an ‘E6 to mum
mhtuwaww‘
‘I
V Looking for something bigger?
3 Check out the new Alpha 250
V- Twin

Men’s tennis loses its first match, Men’s
lax falls to Roanoke, Ritter at NCAA finals

FROM STAFF REPORTS

Men’s lacrosse

Washington and Lee’s men’s la-
crosse team fell, 8-4, to Roanoke Col-
lege on Sunday in a match played in
Salem, Virginia. The win dropped the
General ’s record to 3-2, 0-1 ODAC as it
improved Roanoke’s record to 5- l , 1-0
ODAC. W&L is ranked seventh while
Roanoke is ranked seventeenth.

Roanoke shot out to a 6-0 lead
before the W&L’s midﬁelder, Rob
Brown, ’03, recorded a goal to get W&L
on the board at the half. Roanoke then
improved its lead to seven, making it
an 8-1 lead in the third. The Generals
held a 43-32 advantage in shots, scor-
ing one goal in the third and two more
in the fourth. Rob Brown, Matt Fink,
Dustin Martin, and Jack Murray each
recorded one goal.

W&L takes to the ﬁeld again
when it hosts Guilford on Wednes-
day in a 3:30 pm contest.

Men’s tennis

Washington and Lee’s men’s
tennis team met its first loss on
Saturday in a match played at
Mary Washington in
F redericksburg, Virginia.

The team lost, 6-1, dropping
its record to 11-1 overall. Mary
Washington’s record improved to
5-3.W&L did have a few out-
standing matches.

In singles play, Graham Nix
defeated Tim Ryan 7-5, 6-0. In
doubles play, the combo of K.C.
Schaefer and Chris Kimmel de-
feated Tim Ryan and Nate
Hathaway.

The Generals next take to the
court in a home match against
Averett on Wednesday at 3 p.m.
The team also has home matches
on Friday, against Rhodes at 3 p.m,
on Saturday, against Swarthmore,
at 12 p.m., and on Sunday against
Washington College, at 11 a.m.

Ritter competes
in NCAA Championship

Eric Ritter, ‘O3, ended his.
2003 swimming season by fin-1
ishing 22nd in the 200—yard
backstroke on Saturday at the

NCAA Division III Swim Cham-

pionships at Emory University.,

Ritter finished with a time of
1:55.67 among a ﬁeld of 29 swim-
mers.

tive season in the 100-yard back-

stroke on Friday. Though seeded.

14th in the 100-yard backstroke
after the morning preliminaries,
finished the race with 52.06 to ﬁn-
ish sixteenth.

On the ﬁrst day of the NCAA
Division III Swim Championships
last Thursday, Ritter ﬁnished forty-
eighth in the 50-yard freestyle with
a time of22. 14.

Ritter earned All-America
honors for the second consecu-_

 

PAGE 8

BY JOHN HYLAND
SPORTS WRITER

Washington and Lee’s baseball
team completed another undefeated
stretch last week to improve its
school record-winning streak to ten
games. The Generals took both
games of a doubleheader last Sat-
urday at Randolph—Macon and fol-
lowed it up with a victory over
ODAC power Bridgewater last
Wednesday at Cap’n Dick Smith
Field. The three conference victo-
ries elevated W&L’s record to 12-2,
6-1 ODAC and moved them into
sole possession of second place be-
hind Virginia Wesleyan who is 5-0.

In game one against Randolph-
Macon, the Generals opened up an
early lead with a five run first in-
ning, led by sophomore designated
hitter Zack Bausch’s three run
double. W&L would remain hot as
they would go on to score in six out
of the seven innings that they came
to bat, never relenting in a 17-4 dis-
mantling.

The Generals pounded out 15
hits and every starter reached base
safely. Senior shortstop Michael
Hanson went 4 for 5 on the after-
noon with four runs scored. Senior
centerfielder Bobby Littlehale also
finished 4 for 5, setting a school
record with four doubles; he scored
twice and added five RBIs. Junior
second baseman Austin Allain and
junior catcher Bryan Mulhern
belted homers in the victory. Junior
lefthander Peter Dean pitched well
on the mound, allowing only one
unearned run over five innings and
stuck out five to earn the win and
improve his record to 3-1 on the
season.

The second game of the
doubleheader would prove to be
much closer. Once again, the Gen-
erals opened up the scoring in the
first inning on an RBI single by se-
nior first baseman Bryan Gladysz,
who finished with three hits on the
night. W&L would score again in
the second and twice more in the
fourth to open a 4-1 lead.
Randolph—Macon would not go
down as quietly as they did in Game
1.

The Yellow Jackets scored two
runs in the sixth to close the gap to
4-3, prompting manager Jeff Stickley
to call on the right-handed Mulhern
to relieve his starter, junior
righthander Dan Kagey. Muhern
responded by not allowing a run
over three innings and striking out
the side in the ninth inning with
both the tying and winning runs on

SPORTS

Baseball remains
undefeated at 10-0

10-game winning streak a school record

FllEPHO'l'()
base to earn his first save of the
year. Kagey got the win for the Gen-
erals, pushing his record to 3-1, giv-
ing up three runs over six innings.
Hanson and sophomore leftfielder
Warren Hunter each ﬁnished the
game with two singles and two runs
scored. The two losses dropped
Randolph-Macon’s record to 3-5, 1-
3 ODAC.

The Generals hoped to main-
tain their momentum heading into
Wednesday’s game against
Bridgewater, who entered the con-
test tied for first place in the ODAC
with a perfect 4-0 record. For the
eighth straight game, W&L scored
in the first inning, a statistic that
has without a doubt contributed to
their success.

Hanson led off the inning with
a triple and scored on Allain’s
double. Gladysz followed with a
single and Littlehale loaded the
bases with a walk for Mulhern who
delivered with a two-run double to
left. Littlehale scored on an error to
round out the scoring. The
General’s bats would cool off after
the explosive start as hard-throw-
ing Eagle starter Todd Lewis settled
down and did not allow a run for
the rest of the game. But W&L had
already done all the damage that
they would need.

Junior righthander Michael
Wert started the game on the mound
for the Generals and pitched solidly,
permitting two runs, one earned
over five innings, but the team
would need its bullpen to finish the
job. In a rare relief appearance, Dean
was called on in the sixth inning and
pitched three scoreless innings.
With the game standing at 4-2,
Mulhern got the nod to try to earn
his second save in a row, coming
through to pitch a perfect ninth in-
ning. Wert received the win and
improved his record to 3-0. The vic-
tory was the Generals first over
Bridgewater since the 2000 season.

Stickley attributes the team’s
hottest stretch in school history to
a combination of “good play out of
the seniors, solid pitching and
timely hitting.” Yet, he seems de-
termined not to let the team get too
comfortable amid their success,
commenting after the Bridgewater
game, “It doesn’t hurt when you
win but you’ve got to let it go and
move on.” Clearly, the team has no
time to relax as it is in the heart of
its conference schedule. The Gen-
erals had a doubleheader this past
Saturday against Eastern Menno-
nite before facing Bridgewater once
again on the road on Tuesday.

SCVCII.

ittlehale Player 0 the
eek, Hanson sets records

FROM STAFF REPORTS

Washington and Lee
centerﬁelder Bobby Littlehale, ’03,
has been chosen as the Old Do-
minion Athletic Conference
(ODAC)

Player of
the Week for
the week end-
ing March 16,
2 0 0 3
Littlehale was
6-for 14 on the
week, scoring
three rims and
driving in a
team-high of

H e
also recorded
four doubles

set another Washington and Lee
benchmark in the first game of a
double-header with Randolph-
Macon. He hit his 38th career
double to move ahead of Patrick
Hall in the career double category
with two doubles in ﬁve bats.
Hanson is followed
by teammate
B o b b y
Littlehale, who
connected for a
W&L game
record of four
doubles in the
same game, going

4-5, foraca-
reer total of 32
doubles.

Hanson is one

and one sto-
len base. In
the first game
of a double-
header with Randolph—Macon,
Littlehale went 4-for-5 with a Wash-
ington and Lee record of fr‘ ,ir
doubles and ﬁves RBI’s.

Shortstop Michael Hanson, ’03,

PASS. Leslie Bogart prepares to pass in \l(/ednesday’s game against Hollins.

 

Bobby Littlehale has been chosen
ODAC Player of the Week

RBI away from
tying the career
RBI mark held
by Matt Kozora.
He is also approaching hits and
and at-bats career marks. Hanson
currently holds W&L career marks
in stolen bases (44), triples (13) and
runs scored (124).

FIIEH-1011)

Women’s lax 3-1,  in ODAC

BY JOHN HYLAND
SPORTS RRITER

The Washington and Lee
women’s lacrosse team easily
handled ODAC foe Hollins last
Wednesday opening up a 10-0 lead
just 7:36 into the game, ﬁnishing with
18 goals in the first half on 26 shots
to take an 18-0 lead. The Generals
did not even attempt a shot in the
second half, easing to an 18-2 vic-
tory.

The team has now won three
games in a row after dropping
their opening game to fifth
ranked St. Mary’s 8-4. W&L’s
record now stands at 3-1, 2-0
ODAC, totally dismantling their
two ODAC opponents, Guilford
and Hollins, by a combined score
of 38-6. The Generals are cur-
rently ranked thirteenth in the
country.

The barrage of first-half
scoring on Wednesday was led
by freshman midfielder
Katharine Lester, who had four
goals. Senior attacker Leslie
Bogart chipped in three goals
and an assist while junior
midfielder Kelly Taffe added
three goals. Freshman attackers
Laing Humphries and Amanda

Strickler each contributed two
goals and an assist.

The Generals defense did not
allow a shot in the first half and only
four in the second as junior goalie
Joanna Perini only had to make one
save in the victory. After the loss,
Hollins’ record fell to 1-5, 1-4
ODAC.

The team seems to be gelling
at the right time as it heads into
the middle of its schedule. Sopho-
more defensive midfielder Maggie
Speasmaker agrees with this per-
ception, commenting after the
game that, “We had problems ear-
lier in the year adjusting to a new
offense but the difficulties seemed
to have worked themselves out
and everything is kind of coming
together.”

Clearly, anytime a team
scores eighteen first half goals,
any notion that a team is strug-
gling offensively is erased.
There is no question that the
Generals faced a much tougher
opponent this past Saturday
when it traveled to face eighth
ranked Mary Washington, a
team that it lost to 14-3 last sea-
son. It is the‘ first of four
straight road games for the
Generals.

    

ER1N]uuUs
SPORIS EDHOR

‘r
MONDAY, MARCH 24, 2003,

Women’s tennis
wins 4, is now 16-O ’

BY ALLISON PERRY
SPORTS WRITER

The Washington and Lee
Women’s tennis team came out with
wins against Eastern Mennonite,
Randolph—Macon Woman’s Col-
lege, Roanoke, and Mary Wash-
ington this past week. The women
improved their record to 16-0, 10-0
in the ODAC.

The second ranked Generals
shut down Eastern Mennonite 9-0
at home on Tuesday. Eastern Men-
nonite is 2-3 overall, 1-2 in the
ODAC.

Sophomore Marie Trimble led
the women with a 6-2, 6-4 win in
the No. 1 singles match. Freshman
Megan Curran defeated her oppo-
nent 6-3, 6-1 in the No. 2 spot. In
the No. 3 singles match, freshman
Patty Roberts won her match 6-1,
6-0.

Freshmen Ingrid Easton and
Laura Neller both shut down their
opponents 6-0, 6-0 in the No. 4 and
5 singles, respectively. Freshman
Lauren Peters won by forfeit at No.
6 singles.

In doubles play, Curran and
Trimble teamed up to defeat their
opponents 8-0 at No. 1. Easton
and Roberts also won their match
8-0 at No. 2. Neller and Peters won
their match by forfeit at No. 3.

. Also on Tuesday, the women
defeated Randolph—Macon
Woman’s College in Lynchburg, 9-
0.

Senior captain Laura Bruno
easily won her match 6- 1 , 6-0 at No.
1 singles. Freshman Laura Mabry
played in the No. 2 spot, shutting
down her opponent 6-0, 6-0.
Sophomore Meredith Bailey also
won her match at No. 3, 6-0, 6-1. At
No. 4, sophomore Lora Farris de-
feated her opponent 6-0, 6-1. In
the No. 5 and 6 singles, junior Emily
Taylor and sophomore Kristin
Crawford won their matches 6-0, 6-
2 and 6-0, 6-1, respectively.

In doubles action, Bruno and
Mabry teamed up to shut down
their opponents 8-0 at No. 1. Bailey
and Farris also defeated their op-
ponents 8-0 in No. 2 doubles.

Crawford and Taylor won their
match with an 8-2 victory at No. 3.

On Thursday, the Generals de-
feated Roanoke at home, 9-0.

Sophomore Lindsay Hagerman
led the Generals with a win of 6-1, 6
at No. 1 singles. Senior captain Erika
Proko knocked off her opponent 6-0,
6-0 at No. 2. In the No. 3 singles match,
Trimble defeated her opponent 6-1, 6%
1. Easton won with a victory of 6-3, 6-
2 at No. 4.

Sophomores Bailey and Catherine
Torrey Stroud both shut down their
opponents 6-0, 6-0 at No. 5 and 6, re?
spectively.

In doubles, the fifth ranked
doubles team of Hagennan and Proko
easily defeated their opponents 8—()r
at No. 1. Easton and Trimble won their
match 8-1 at No. 2. At No. 3, Bailey
and Stroud teamed up to win their
match 8-2.

On Saturday, the Generals der
feated Mary Washington, 8-1. Mary
Washington is ranked 23'“ in the na-
tion and 6”‘ in the Atlantic South.

Hagerrnan led the women with at
win of 6-2, 6-3 over 17"‘ ranked Karli
Schneider at No. 1 singles. Hagennan
is currently tied for 13"‘ place in the
nation. ‘

Bruno defeated her opponent 63

1, 6-1 at No. 2. Proko also won her

match at No. 3, 6-2, 6-0. Senior Brandi

Jane Wedgeworth and Mabry each

shut down their opponents 6-0, 6-0 as
No. 4 and 5 singles, respectively.

Junior Liz Law rounded out the
top six with a 6-1, 6-0 victory.

In doubles play, Hagerinan and
Proko teamed up to win their match 8)!
3 at No. 1. Bruno and Mabry also
defeated their opponents 8-3 at No. 2.
Law and Trimble were defeated in
their match at No. 3, 8-4.

The Generals are on the road to-
day against Sweet Briar at 4:30 p.m.
They do not play again until Friday
when they travel to Emory University
in Atlanta to play in the Fab 5 tourna¥
merit.

The Generals will meet up against
15' ranked Emory, 4"‘ ranked Trinity
(TX), and 10”‘ ranked Claremorrtp-,

. Mudd-Scripps.

 

-it

   

BY KATIE HOWELL
EDITOR IN CHIEF

“I haven’t got a preference yet,”
President Thomas Burish said Thurs-
day morning of the recently proposed
options for reforming Washington and
Lee’s imdergiaduate academic calendar.

The President’s Advisory Commit-
tee chaired by University Provost Laurent
Boetsch presented a summary of months
of‘ ‘the discussions related to course-load
and calendar issues” on Monday to
Burish and the W&L community.

“The student reaction—I was
surprised by the severity. I was sur-
prised by the conclusion of many of
the students who assumed a decision
had already been made to have a 14/
14 calendar system,” Burish said.

The comrnittee’s report, in fact,
lays out three different academic calen-
dar models. The report then debates the
options with regard to six parameters
Burish outlined for the committee in the
challenge he gave to the it last fall.

The first option calls for the cur-
rent calendar to remain in place with a
six-course teaching load for all fac-
ulty members and a requirement of 40
courses to graduate.

The second option requests a
two-semester calendar with a six-
course teaching load for all faculty
members and a 32- (or 36-) course
graduation requirement.

The last option also calls for a
two—semester calendar, but requests
a ﬁve-course teaching load for all fac-
ulty and 32- (or 36-) courses per stu-
dent for graduation.

Boetsch described the second
option as the “most feasible” during
a student-adrninistration forum held
Wednesday night iI.l.L€I1f¢$.t_C€nt€f-

After receiving the recommenda-
tions and summary from the
President’s Advisory Committee,
Burish conducted a faculty meeting
on Tuesday aﬁemoon to discuss the

situation with all the academic depart-
ments. He then held the student fo-
rum Wednesday night. He plans to
host two more such student forums
on March 31 andApril 3 in Lee Chapel.

He stated that neither the adrnin-
istration nor the faculty have come to
a conclusion about how to alter the
current calendar, course-load and ﬁs-
cal quandary.

“The power of our job is to gener-
ate alternatives, if we can,” Burish said.

The reasons why:

Before his death in the summer

A of 200 1 , late University President John

Elrod decided to reduce faculty teach-
ing loads from seven to six courses
per year.

During the student forum, Burish
said, “Several years ago, the school
felt it could not continue attracting
the best faculty with our current
teaching loads. In an attempt to be
more competitive, the administration
changed the course load from seven
to six.”

In addition to this decree, the
administration decided to make this
change over the course of three years
as to reduce the amount of visible
strain seen on individual departments,
classes and class sizes.

“Unfortimately, there’s no finite
mechanism to implement this,” Burish
said. “One-seventh of the classes will
be gone—that’s over 100. We have
no good plan to make this wor .”

Currently, the teaching load re-
ductions are being phased in over
three years. Burish said faculty will
alternate years teaching seven and
then six courses each year. In addi-

SEE INSERT FOH SPECAL APRIL FOOLS EDITION

To SPRING OR NOT To SPRING. (left) President Thomas Burish addresses students and fa

tion, the University allocated $200,000
to hire temporary adjunct faculty over
the next three years to help counter-
act the effects of a large-scale course
reduction.

“Unfortunately, this is a short-
term solution,” Burish said.

Burish said
that in order to
maintain the
same number of
classes currently
offered and to

the College;

I KNOW STUDENTS LOVE
SPRING TERM, BUT JUST TO
SAY WE WANT A 12-12-6

Law School, Larry Peppers of the Will-
iams School and Thomas Williams of
professors Brian
Murchison of the Law School, Michael
Evans of the mathematics department,
Lad Sessions of the philosophy depart-
ment. Suzanne Keen of the English de-
partment, Michael
Pleva of the cheni-
istry department,
Barbara Browrr of
the library, Cecile
West-Settle of the

avoid a drastic CALENDAR WITH NO romance lan-
increase in CHANGES \yoN’T WORK....IT guages dePa‘""'
course sizes, the , merit, Harlan
Universitywould WON T BE IDENTICALR BUT Beckley of the
need to hire 25 IN MANY WAYS \X/ILL BE Sheperd Program

new faculty at a
cost of $2.5 mil-
lion per year for
salaries and start-
up packages.
The University would also be forced
to pay $3 million to move the faculty
here and construct a new building to
house ofﬁces for all these new people.

“We don’t have that money,”
Burish said. “I don’t know the an-
swer.”

He said the school is currently in
a “delicate ﬁnancial situation.” The
endowment is down seven percent,
the school has no excess money, and
the school is increasing tuition “ag-
gressively” to counteract these ﬁnan-
cial problems.

“W&L won’t be W&L if we have
the second-best faculty,” Burish said.
“Over time, it’s going to be more diffi-
cult to attract the best faculty if we
don’t ﬁx some things.”

Burish’s challenge:

“I found several unsolved prob-
lems waiting for the new presidential
ofﬁce,” Burish said in his speech last
Wednesday.

In early fall 2002, he challenged the
President’s Advisory Committee (com-
prised of Deans David Partlett of the

i_,..r~.;vs briefs to

    

-           -
Mock Con announces Kick-off bands

North Mississippi Allstars and The Lost Trailers
will be the two bands to play at Washington and Lee’s
Mock Convention Spring Kick-Off May 10, Noah
Rhodes announced at the Mock Con Steering Com-

BETTER.
UNIV. PRES. THOMAS BURISH

and religion de-
partment, Arthur
Goldsmith of the
economics de-
partment and
Robert Strong of the politics depart-
ment; and associate deans David Millon
of the Law School, Elizabeth Oliver of
the Williams School and Jeanine
Stewart of the College) to “study these
issues [the University’s current finan-
cial status with regard to ensuring the
University’s continued progress] and
to propose ways that the University
might effectively deal with them.”
Burish framed the charge by pro-
viding six guidelines for the commit-
tee to use in their discussions. They
are: 1. The teaching load will be no
more that 6 courses per year, 2. We
should seek to enhance collaboration
among the College, Williams School
and Law School, 3. We should seek
to strengthen interdisciplinary and
international education, 4. The current
student/faculty ratio will be main-
tained (assume up to ﬁve permanent
faculty hires), 5. Resource reallocation
is probable, but there will be no sig-
niﬁcant infusion of new resources for
the addition of faculty, and 6. Keep
the calendar structured by making
sure students take two courses per

mittee meeting last night. According to The Lost Trail-
ers Web site, www.thelosttrailers.com, the band is “an
American rock band based in the Southeast.” Lucinda
Williams said of North Mississippi Allstars, “The
North Mississippi Allstars have taken the best of Delta
blues and Southern rock and blended them to create
their own sound that is honest, raw, sensual, very
powerful stuff. They are important because they are

bridging a gap by bringing blues to a whole new crowd

while still staying true to the primitive sounds of the
Delta. You could call it swamp rock. I love them!” Visit
North Mississippi Allstars at their Web site
www.nma11stars.com.

JEB BROOKS / The Ring-Inn: Phi

culty  Wednesday/s
student forum After a short presentation by Burish and Provost Laurent Boetsch, students took the opportunity

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

«   NG-TUM

The ilnnlnnt none of Washington nnn’ Len Uninnniih since 7897 (D On/inn nl: phzln//n.enln

 

spring term.

Under this charge the Committee
proposedthe three options listed inthe
ﬁrst section above. Under each option,
however, the committee found viola-
tions of Burish’s guidelines. These vio-
lations are all listed and thoroughly de-
scribed in the summary posted online
at hgp://registrar.wlu.edu/calendars/
AdvisorvCommRecs2003 .htm.
Boetsch, however, did comment that the
committee found the second option,
calling for two-semesters, a six-course
teaching load, and 32- to 36-course
graduation requirement for students the
most feasable, voting 12-0-2 (with two
absences) in favor of a two semester
calendar.

The history:

While many think the recent de-
velopments regarding the University
calendar, teaching loads and curricu-
lum reform have been sprung on the
W&L community at the last rriinute,
the calendar has been in question
over the past few years. During the
2000-2001 school year, a faculty com-
mittee conducted a study of two cal-
endar models: one with two 14-week
semesters similar to the current Law
School calendar and the other was the
current 12-12-6 calendar. This cornmit-
tee ﬁnished its work in February 2001,
and the faculty subsequently debated
whether to keep the current 12-12-6
calendar or to switch to a 14- l 4-week
system. The faculty vote was in favor
of the current situation 127 to 64 (66.5
percent to 33.5 percent) votes. The
faculty, however, were concerned
about the quality of a six-week term.
They acted upon these concerns by
forming a Spring Term Renewal Com-
mittee (STRC) which “was assigned
the task of providing the administra-
tion with a set of recommendations to
strengthen the Spring Term by the end
of the 2001-2002 academic year,” ac-
cording to the STRC report. After a
year of debate and consideration, the

Grasso named first-ever VP Administration

Joseph E. Grasso has been named to Washing-
ton and Lee University’s newly-created position
ofVice President for Administration, effective July

1.

Grasso joins W&L from the University of Virginia,
where he serves as associate dean of planning and opera-
tions in the College and Graduate School of Arts & Sci-

€I'lC€S.

W&L President Thomas Burish praised Grasso’s ap-
pointment and the selection process leading up to it.
“The Search Committee put a tremendous amount of time

   

PE

 

VOLUME CV, No.XXV  

MONDAY, MARCH 31, 2003

STRC presented its report in May
2002.

This report suggested the admin-
istration establish a standing commit-
tee to examine all proposed courses
for Spring Term, require that Spring
Term courses be unique to Spring
Term, keep Spring Term class sizes
small and Seminar-style, encourage
off-campus, unique and interdiscipli-
nary courses and begin work on a
number of programs including Fresh-
men Seminars, new faculty workshops
and summer grants. The STRC pre-
sented its findings to then acting-
President Boetsch, who declined to
react to them since Burish was assum-
ing presidency in July 2002. Burish
then established the new committee
in September, and they have debat-
ing since then.

Both the 2000-2001 report and
STRC reports are posted on the Uni-
versity registrar’s Web site.

Historically, Spring Term has
only been in existence at W&L since
1970. Prior to 1970 the students had
two 15-week semesters, took ﬁve
courses each term and went to class
on Saturdays. Administrators pointed
out during the student forum that
many liberal arts colleges employed
alternative calendar systems during
the 1970s and that all except W&L
and Bates College in Maine have re-
tained these sirnilar shorter terms. The
administrators said, however, that
Bates’s ﬁve-week term and W&L’s six-
week term are not the same as current
other school’s voluntary “January” or
“May” terms.

What will happen?

Over the past week students, fac-
ulty, administrators, alumni and prospec-
tive students have all voiced their con-
cerns and comments on the issues at
hand Signs around campus, studentmass
emails and numerous classroom discus-
sions have been a common sight at W&L
over the past week. Students and many

them.”

ante“?

mt, ) UJ.L'.\'l'lL\'l'l().\' Br} EB BROOKS / The Rzn;-him Phi

to question the administrators about the calendar issues and the future of Spring Terrrr  A French class takes
advantage of warm weather to work outside. \Will this still be a common sight if the current calendar is changed?

faculty members have declared their un-
dying affection for Spring Term. Burish
responded, however, “I know students
love Spring Term, but just to say we want
a 12- 12-6 calendar with no changes won’t
work because there won’t be enough
classes for all the students to take.”

Alumni and students alike have
emailed and met with Burish throughout
the week to present their concerns and
suggestions for ways to improve the cal-
endar. “We need to identify the most
important elements in the whole aca-
demic calendar—spring term and other
tenns—and then help us think of cre-
ative ways we can package those ele-
ments to retain those essential elements,”
Burish said. “The faculty are trying to
ﬁnd away to do it, and I’m trying to ﬁnd
a way to do it. Ithink that we can do it. It
won’t be identical, but in many ways will
be better—we’ll have a better and more
competitive course-load for faculty.”

Burish also added, “We have to
keep in mind this report has only been
out a couple of days. It is meant to
generate interest and generate ideas.”

Burish is optimistic about the
ideas and thoughts that will be gained
from the student forums, faculty meet-
ings and one-on-one meetings with
individuals of both groups.

He said, “I’m delighted in the past
few days people have changed their
minds about the issues. I called a stu-
dent last night for example who had writ-
ten a pretty stinging email not to me-
but it had been sent to me-—I called to let
him know some of his information was
inaccurate, and he said, ‘President Burish
I was at the meeting [student forum] to-
night, and I feel completely different, and
I’ll work with you on alternatives. I still
may not like the outcome. ’”

Burish said students and faculty
alike have approached him with ideas
and suggestions.

“There ’s no set formula to ﬁx this,”
Burish said. “We’re just going to have
to get a lot of different perspectives
before anything can be decided.”

and effort into the Search and selection process, main-
tained strict conﬁdentiality, and helped bring the pro-
cess to a most successful conclusion. I am grateful to

The Search Committee was chaired by Steven G.

McAllister, W&L’s vice president for ﬁnance and Univer-

sity treasurer. It included William Hartog, dean of admis-
sions and financial aid; David Partlett, dean of W&L’s
School of Law; Larry Peppers, dean of the Williams School

of Commerce, Economics, and Politics; Mike Walsh, ex-

Trustees.

ecutive athletic director; Leanne Shank, W&L’s general
counsel; and Burt Staniar, a member of W&L’s Board of

 

   

BRE'1TT.KlR\X/AN _ , 
OPINIONSEDHOR 3 337.. i P‘ "
FMAH:wRWB@MU£DU 5 T.  ,
MONDAY, MARCH 31, 2003>   ‘

 

._/‘  ~ '3.-

I



News comes before Fools

This is the second year in a row that The
Ring-tum Phi has been unable to print an en-
tire issue dedicated to April Fool’s fun. Both
times, President Burish has been the reason.
The April Fool’s edition of 2002 was partially
nixed because of the announcement of Tho-
mas Burish’s ascension to the top spot at our
fine school. Today, we print only an insert. W&L
may be a bubble from reality, but news has
trumped April Fools yet again.

All majors have something to offer

How many times has a C-School student
laughed at someone studying the humanities?
How many times have economics maj ors called
future geologists “hippies?” How many times
have philosophy majors scoffed at the voca-
tional training offered in the C-School? Far too
often, if you ask us. To judge a student based
solely on what he chooses to explore while a
wee undergraduate is short-sighted. The broad
base of classes students take in the form of
general education courses and (ahem) Spring
Term courses ensures that every student has a
good mix of courses.

On the rare occasion that an employer hires
someone these days, he is looking for a char-
acter who has this broad experience. The goal
of a liberal arts education is to teach one how
to think, not to impart to students a speciﬁc set
of skills.

As such, those who study something a little
more “Newcomb,” as well as those in the C-
School have options available. Recent gradu-
ates with degrees from building on the Colon-
nade have found themselves in professions
ranging from Pastors to Professors and Com-
modities Traders to Counselors.

Remember, one’s undergraduate degree
has little bearing on what one does with the
rest of one ’s life. Math majors are not all dorks,
science majors are not all mad, sociology ma-
jors are not all worthless and politics majors
are not all conservatives. Do not fall victim to
labeling a ﬁiend (or enemy) by some ill-irrforrned
conception of what he is studying.

The diversity of disciplines available at
Washington and Lee should encourage students
to experiment with new ﬁelds of study, not pro-
vide fodder for sophomoric teasing.

THE RiNG—TI.lM PHI

 

PINIONS

 

PAGE 2

Burish needs to work to save Spring Term

“I give you my word, a decision has not already been
made,” said President Burish during a recent interview. He
was obviously speaking about Spring Term.

So what does one make of this? I have to believe the
president when he says this. This University is founded
on a tradition of honor and honesty, so if I cannot trust
the University President at his word, then things are in a
horrible state.

Burish also said, “What surprised me is that students
thought a decision on the issue had already been made.”
The fact is that when the President’s Advisory Committee
gave their report on a range of issues, including the calen-
dar, Burish stated he truly expected one of the options
that was to be presented to him to include the current
calendar system.

What students do need to understand is that Burish
came to Washington and Lee, the past president, the late
John Elrod, already having given the faculty the promise
to reduce their teaching load from seven to six courses.
Elrod had also already put many construction plans, such
as the renovation of Reid Hall and the Commons, into the
works.

The University borrowed money for these projects,
and they had to be paid for. Thus comes the Campaign for
the Rising Generation. This campaign’s goal is to raise
$225 million to pay for these and other things. In his short
time here, Burish has already met $205 million of this goal.

“Why can’t the University use part of this money
to pay for new faculty and buildings that would be
needed to keep the current calendar and reduce the
current faculty’s course load?”

He explained that while much of this
money is in a sense, “already spent,” the
fact remains that when someone pledges
money to the school it is often not seen
for ﬁve years. If a pledge is more than $1 million, that
individual has ten years to pay it. Moreover, some pledges
are in the form of trusts, and the University does not see
this money until that individual has died.

Thus, there is actually no current disposable income
to pay for such a high number of new faculty members
(estimated around twenty-ﬁve people).

    

KEWL bakes up lies ,

?????????????? 
NICK RAMSEY ‘O3

‘ILE '
GoNE? Students wait for the Porta—]ohns at the 1993 Foxﬁeld
Races The end of SpiingTei:m couldmean the end of this tradition

I also asked Burish how the proposed two-term cal-
endar would affect the variety of a student’s education
since it reduces the number of courses one takes in four
years at W&L from forty to thirty-two.

He said he feels the general education requirements
do a good job of making sure students
experience this type of variety already, and
that tradition would be continued if we
go to a different calendar.

“Don’t you think it would beneﬁt you to experience
Spring Tenn before calling it into question like this?” His
answer was simple. “I’ve not experienced Spring Term,
but I know students love it. I do want to keep it if I can.”

So what is one to make of all this? Clearly there are
those among the student body who feel that Burish is on
a crusade to get rid of our beloved six weeks. They are

 

incorrect. But, this is not to say that the students should
remain passive. There are too many things about Spring
Tenn that provide students classes and opportunities that
are unavailable at any other school.

To quote W&L alumnus, past EC President, and cur-
rent NYU law student Jeff Cook, “All the people I know
who got their start in politics from Washington Term think
doing away with Spring Term is a horrible idea.”

Other problems that could arise from the abolition of
Spring Term include internships, the Politics Department’s
term on Parliamentary Politics in London, and the multiple
seminar and specialized courses we have all come to love.
Moreover, the Theater Department would be greatly hin-
dered in its ability to do a musical. The school’s orchestra
would have to ﬁt all of its own engagements into two
terms, leaving very little time for them to devote to a Spring
Tenn musical.

Moreover, “The Princeton Review” recently ranked
our students as some of the hardest studiers in the nation.
I think every student would agree to this since many of
our friends at other schools cannot identify with the level
of work that it takes to get a sheepskin from this place. I,
personally, have pulled at least ten all—nighters this term.
Two of them were back to back, thus keeping me up for
sixty-three hours straight.

Thus, my argument from these facts is that we, as
a student body, earn the relaxation and special oppor-
tunities provided to us from Spring Term. This has
always been a school that has been different. The stu-
dent body has delighted in these differences. I think
that the fact that an overwhelming majority of stu-
dents prefer to keep a calendar that keeps us in school
longer each year than the new proposed calendar
speaks volumes.

Funding issues and teaching loads aside, the real
challenge I charge President Burish and the administra-
tion with is, MAKE THIS WORK The clear advantages
from our calendar far outweigh any disadvantages. While
the word “change” is often frowned upon here for ﬁivo-
lous reasons, this is one time that we as a student body
need to remain united and make our voices heard. This
time we are right.

   

te of the Week

“Screw theAmericans!”

~Canadian Senator Laurier L. LaPierre,
in Senate debate on March 25

Founder J. Sam Slicer, 1898L
Editor in chief Katie J. Howell
Opinions Editor BrettT.Kirwan
Arts & Life Editor Catherine C. Guy
Photo Editor Jeb Brooks
Sports Editor Erin Julius
Asst. News Editor CaleyAnderson
Photographers CodyGabbard
Copy Editor Donny Banks
Business Manager
Circulation Director
Advertising Assistant

Thomas Worthy
Henry Grimball
McQueen Calvert

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee Univer-
sity, Lexington, Virginia. The Washington and Lee Publi-
cations Board elects the Editor in chief, but The Ring-tum
Phi is otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible submis-
sions and letters. All submissions must be e-mailed to
phi@wlu.edu or in the University Center mailbox by 5
p.m. Friday to appear in the following week’s edition. The
Ring-tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for con-
tent and length. Letters and columns do not necessarily re-
ﬂect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Ad-
vertising does not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi
or its staff. This newspaper observes current court deﬁni-
tions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Mailing Address: University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Street Address.‘ 31 Washington Street
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Fax: (540) 462-4059
Email: phi@wlu.edu
http.‘//phi.wIu.edu

Last Wednesday, Knowledge Em-
powering Womyn Leaders (KEWL) and
the Minority Student Association (MSA)
held an “Equity Bake Sale” to bring the
attention of W&L students to that
scourge of our time, the gender wage gap.
(One wonders why the Minority Student
Association would spon-
sor an event for women, a
majority population.)
Congratulations to the la-
dies for donating all the
proceeds to CancerCare; ﬁe on them for
perpetuating the thoroughly disproven
myth that the gender wage gap is due to
discrimination.

There is indeed a gender wage gap.
The statistics KEWL paraded about are
true. On average, women do earn less than
men. However, this is not due to any dis-
crimination. It is, instead, due to genuine
inequities in educational attainment, job ex-
perience, age or occupation. For example,
the Bureau of Labor Statistics numbers
ﬂaunted by KEWL, according to the Inde-
pendent Women’s Forum, compare only the
“median wages of all men and all women in
the work force, without regard to age, edu-
cation, occupation, experience or working
hours.” Even the National Council on Pay
Equity, set up by labor unions and femi-
nist groups to agitate in favor of higher
wages for women, agrees that all of these
variables are important factors that “are
valid explanations for different pay rates.”
Yet they ignore the true explanation so that

  
 

RIGHT or THE AISLE

they can score political points by complain-
ing about nonexistent discrimination.

In fact, “equal pay for equal wor ” has
been the law of the land since the 1963
Equal Pay Act was passed. Discrimination
in paying one’s laborers based on sex
would land an employer in court and give
the woman plaintiff a
settlement so she would
never have to work again.

Moreover, if employ.-
ers were indeed justiﬁed
with paying their female employees only
three-quarters of what they pay their male
employees for the same work, all male em-
ployees would be ﬁred. Capitalists dis-
criminate in favor of proﬁt and if the gen-
der wage gap were truly based on discrimi-
nation, men would be sacked in favor of
their 28 percent cheaper female counter-
parts.

According to the National Longitudi-
nal Survey of Youth, also conducted by
the Bureau of Labor Statistics, reveal that
when childless 27-33 year old men and
women are compared, taking into account
their education, occupation and experi-
ence, women earn nearly 98 percent the
wages of men. No gap there.

Another explanation for the wage gap
is that many women voluntarily choose to
work in lower paying jobs, such as clerical
work, sales or education. There is no dis-
criminatory boss that makes these jobs
lower paying or forces women to choose
them. Usually, the additional ﬂexibility

these types of jobs offer more than com-
pensates women for lower wages.

In 1970, only four percent of MBA’s
were awarded to women. In 1996, 37 per-
cent of these advanced degrees went to
women. As women’s educational achieve-
ments and training advance (women are
now the majority on undergraduate cam-
puses) we’ll keep seeing more and more
women in top executive positions where
they’re earning as much or more than their
male counterparts. In fact, in 1973, women
sat on the boards of only 11 percent of
major corporations; in 1998, that percent-
age had risen to 72.

So, it turns out that, if one examines
truly equal work, women earn just as much
as men. There is no sexual discrimination

 

_] EB BROOKS / The Rirrgtzrm Phi
CHOCOIATE CHIP FALSEHOODS. KEWL promoted the sham that the genderwage gap is discrirninatory.

on pay day. As much as it may displease
the feminists among us, many mothers
choose more ﬂexible jobs with lower sala-
ries so that they may raise their children.
Since 4 out of 5 women will bear a child
sometime in their lifetimes, this results in
women working lower paying part-time and
seasonal jobs in every sector of the
economy.

If KEWL truly wants to help women,
they need to drop the political posturing
and herald the great strides that women
have made in the workplace in recent de-
cades. Women do receive equal pay for
equal work. Stop claiming victim status.

But do keep baking cookies. The
feminists of KEWL were surprisingly
good at it.

 

JAMES G. LEYBLJRN !,tBR.*-.ny'
-'.'7'IS‘iTY

WASHINGTON & Lt: -  ,.
LEXINGTON, vi 

APRﬂ22ﬂ03

Letters to the Editor

Lack of student input “unconscionable”

Dear Editor,

I have recently become aware that the President’s Ad-
visory Committee has proposed altering W&L’s academic
calendar, removing Spring Term. 1 was surprised to hear
such news, since I believed that any such proposal had
died as a result of a faculty vote in 200lsupporting the
current calendar. Even more so, I was dismayed to learn that
the student body had not even been appraised of what the
committee was considering. I strongly support Spring Term
as a unique and invaluable aspect of W&L’s education.

Even more so than the value of Spring Term, 1 value
W&L’s tradition of student self-govemment. These re-
cent events have undermined this crucial aspect of the
ethos of W&L. To consider revising an aspect of the Uni-
versity that affects every student without even the cour-
tesy of letting it be known is to me unconscionable.
Sincerely, '

Marshall Woodworth ‘02

Spring Term important to alumni

Dear Editor,

The W&L experience, the one remembered so vividly by
so many alumni, is more than just an academic one. On the
issue of eliminating Spring Term, President Burish should try
not to think solely like an administrator because it is a far more
complex issue than simply juggling resources and schedules.

In addition to larger classes and temporary teachers,
eliminating Spring Tenn would eliminate a common thread
that connects so many generations of W&L students. We

are hosting a party for accepted students in Charlotte in a
couple of weeks and I usually never pass up the opportu-
nity to extol the virtues of W&L to anyone who wants to
listen. With the prospect of Spring Tenn disappearing, I
really don’t have nearly the same enthusiasm to do so.
I’mremindedeachtimeIreceivemyarmualﬁ1ndma.ilingthat

my connibution helps keep tuition down while allowing the cur-
rent students to have the same opportunities and experiences we
had By eliminating Spring Tenn, Burish is not only eliminating an
experience we alumni know current and future students would
cherish and look back on fondly if given the opportunity, but he is
relinquishingus ofﬂ1e“respor1sibilit}?’toﬁnanciallysupportsome-
thing that is no longer there. Do not underesﬁmate the importance
of those six weeks in Spring in developing the lifelong attachment
we have to the school, the same attachment that gets our check-
books out each year for the armual ﬁrncl And so, while “I come
back to this campus often, sometimes physically, other times in
my mind’s eye,” my yearly contribution won’t in the absence of
Spring Term That is extremely diﬁicult to say for someone who
currently serves on ouralumni chapterboardstill gets alurnp in
my throat when I hear “Shenandoah.”

Sincerely,

Justin Dardani ‘96

Prospective eager to experience Spring Term

Dear Editor,

As a prospective student and George Washington Honor
Scholarship ﬂnalist, I was deeply disheartened to learn that the
University was reconsidering its current undergraduate academic
schedule. The opportunities provided by Spring Term are instru-
mental to the institution’s mission and ongoing success. Spring

Term is a uniquely W&L tradition that not only sets the Univer-
sity apart but also attracts ﬁxture students. In the ﬁercely competi-
tive world of selective college admissions, any special character-
istics of an institution promote its success. Eliminating Spring
Term threatens Washington and Lee’s enviable admissions selec-
tivity and commitment to continually improving classes.

Eliminating Spring Term concunenﬂy detracts ﬁom the
uniqueness and competitiveness of the institution. I greatly hope
to join the (three term) Washington and Lee community this fall.
Sincerely,
Matt Godfrey —Prospective

Spring Term crucial to W&L’s character

Dear Editor,

Decisions like the one to end Spring Term are not
made in a static environment; they will affect aspects of
campus too numerous to fully mention in a letter. Eliminat-
ing Spring Terrn seems to me as drastic a change as mov-
ing campus to Richmond or ceasing to offer history classes.
Instituting a “regular” school calendar would destroy one
of the truly unique attributes of a school which seems to
be losing its uniqueness with each passing year. In the
University’s efforts to mimic the perceived virtues of other
schools, perhaps it should realize that every single alum-
nus in its history declined to attend any other school.

I am truly grateful to have attended Washington and
Lee when it offered the wonderful experience of Spring Term.
In the University’s myopic efforts to be all things to all people,
it is rapidly becoming nothing whatsoever to this alurrmus.
Sincerely,

Andrew Cary Simmons ‘0l

 

‘I

  

cniimu-Akin. bur
ARlS&I.IPEEDll0R
FMAr;Gu1t@wIIurrJ

MONDAY, MARCH 31, 2003

THE R}?-rum: P&

 

IE

PAGE 3

Announcing the W&L student Spring Term fundraiser

There’s a war going on.’ And this one ain’t in the
Middle East.

Before Burish rolled into Lex Vegas, the faculty had
already voted to keep spring term and had also agreed on
some ideas on how to reduce their torturous course load.
Then Burish moves into Lee House and promptly
armounced that W&L is not as cash-money bling—blingin
as we thought. That notorious money-grubbing venture,
“The Campaign for the Rising Generation,” might as well
be called “The Campaign In Which We Receive Pledges

' Of Eventual Money from Rich Alums From Which We

Will Build New Beautiful Buildings While Simultaneously
Changing W&L As We Know It Entirely.” Then again,
that doesn’t quite roll off the tongue like the current phrase.

But‘ for whatever vague, conveniently unidentiﬁed
reason, we can no longer ﬁnancially afford Spring Term, or
at least the faculty-approved improved more efficiently I'l1I1
Spring Term. We can have all the forums we want. We can
complain and write billions of nasty emails. We can publish
an inﬁnite number of scathing editorials. We
can even pretend to be liberals and hold
protest marches in the name of preserving
this great and glorious aspect of W&L life.
But will any of that make Spring Term any

ABSOLUTE FKATLORDE

   

I easier or more practical to save?? Of course not. And so,

we ﬁnd ourselves feeling collectively helpless and frustrated
as our beloved Spring Term is swept away forever.

But wait. Maybe we aren’t helpless. Maybe there is
something we can do after all. It’s all about the money, right?
Then, all we have to do is raise 55 million dollars to save our
favorite term, right?? If that’s so, then let me be the ﬁrst to
armounce the inauguration ofthe Save Spring Term Fundraiser. . ..

Considering the essentially unilateral position that

’ students have against the removal of Spring Term, I’m sure

that everyone would be willing to contribute in some way.
I’d be willing to donate half of the money to my name (tl1at’s
right, all 60 bucks of it) if it would help preserve the current

, calendar. And then after we contribute out of our own pockets,

we could call alums, who certainly wouldn’t want us to take
this lying down, so would gladly contribute. Then there are
our parents, of whom many would also be more than willing
to keep the school as we like it best. Even faculty members
might be inclined to contribute, since many of them are just

as concerned with keeping spring term as we are.
Obviously, individual donations would not be enough to
keep Spring Term aﬂoat Inevitably we would be forced to look
at more creative fundraising options. Here are a few ideas:
1) Alumni Weekend: lets milk the alums for all their
worth. Explain it clearly. . .its not a campaign for the rising
generation, it’s a campaign for OUR generation. Certainly
some of them will join the cause.
2) Buffalo Creek: Get student bands that will play for
free (i.e. Drunken Rusty — a blatant plug, of course) but
have all in attendance throw down a 10-spot in the name
of keeping the calendar how we like it. We’d all be more
than willing to help, considering an end of spring term
would also be an end to Buffalo Creek as we know it.
3) The Spring Term Phone—a—thon: During the Mock Con
Spring Kickoff, we can use the national media exposure to host
the Save Spring Term Phone-a-thon. Political Chair Michael
Denbow and Phil Walotsky can be the erncees and can use a
combination of American patriotism and idle threats to secure
donations ﬁ'om across the country.
4) The Surgeon’s Generals: The Surgeon’s
PR representative, Zach McQ11igg, can

TIM SMITHﬂ‘£_ capitalize on the growing international

popularity of the Surgeon by appealing to
professional athletes around the globe. While the Surgeon

showcases his innumerable abilities which will invariably carry
him the Heisman, future trophy buffer (Ben Jones) and the
token Lambda (yours truly) can collect ﬁnancial donations
from Danny Wuerﬂul, Charlie Ward, and other former Heisman
winners.
5) Kentucky Derby: After contacting horse-racing
experts around the world, we can pool our collected
donations and place a huge bet on the Derby which we
are bound to win. And if by some freak accident we lose,
we can use the rest of our money to place an even bigger
bet on the Preakness. Thus, we are bound to come out on
top, helping our chances to save Spring Term.
6) Fundraising Jar at the Palms: Naturally, the greatest night-
life establishment in Lex Vegas stands to lose if Spring Term
goes down the crapper. Thus, we can place collection jars at
the Pahns and at other Lexington establishments so that those
faithful to the cause can give as much as they wish.

These are just a few ideas. We can raise money in

FILE PHoro/ THE RlN(3—1l'.\I PHI

A TRADITION IN DANGER: Buffalo Creek is an annual student-s onsored event at which numerous bands
P

perform over a Spring Term weekend for the student audience at Zollrnan’s Pavilion. This beloved event, along

with numerous others, could be in danger of annihilation if Spring Term ceases to exist in the next few years.

millions of other ways, so long as we make the millions to
keep the school as we like it.

Obviously the odds are stacked against us, but it’s also
obvious that almost every student on campus feels strongly
about keeping the calendar as it is. Few outsiders can understand
how we feel. President Burish knows his ﬁnances, but what he
can’t grasp fully is how spring term can deﬁne our experience as
students at Washington and Lee. Truly, only those who have
lived through it themselves realize how special it is.

Unfortunately, we may not have any control over the
situation. Indeed, even Burish or the faculty may not

have any control over the situation. They make the
decisions, but their decisions might just as well be
determined by factors outside of their control.

But if we did something about it, like a Spring Term
Fundraiser, we can at least say that we tried. Without a
doubt, 55 million dollars is a sum that 1800 students can’t
possibly collect. But if we start a fundraiser, and it fails,
we can use that money to throw the largest party this
school has ever experienced. That way, we can say
goodbye to Spring Term the only way that most of us
know how — by saying goodbye to sobriety.

Orchestra and Sonoklect give W&L students a magical, musical experience

 

“There is a lot more restriction
playing in an orchestra than playing as
a soloist — restrictions such as tempo,
style, interpretation, etc. The goal of
each section is to make it sound uniﬁed,
so there is a lot less freedom in one’s
own interpretation. However, when all
of those factors come
together, it can leave
chills up your spine.”
—Celia Landgren,
s t u d e n t
concertrnaster.

Last Saturday, Ihad the pleasure of
attending the University Shenandoah
Symphony Orchestra and Sonoklect

  

' concert with a special World Premiere

by Professor Terry Vosbein and the star
performer Jesus Morales on the cello.
Three orchestral pieces were
played, yet I was personally impressed
by Professor Vosbein’s piece “Masque

for Cello and Orchestra” and its cello I *

solo by the talented Jesus Morales. A

,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,,, W long-standing ﬁiend of
ON THE ARTS

AURA LEIGH BIRDWELUO3; e n 0 w n e d

Professor Vosbein’s,
Mr. Morales is a world—

violoncelloist and the
current Principal Cellist of the Orquesta
Sinforrica de Puerto Rico. As I watched
him play, Mr. Morales maintained such
a pleasant face during the entire
performance and played so effortlessly

that I did not even consider how
difﬁcult his piece truly was. He made it
seem so simple. Celia Landgren agreed
with me, but also emphasized that it
was a “very, very, very difficult” and
technical piece to play. And for a
musician who considered attending a
university music conservatory to state
such praise says much about Morales,
not to mention the master of the
symphony itself, Professor Vosbein.
The orchestra also performed a
lovely piece entitled “Circus Polka” by
Igor Stravinsky and Charles Ives’
“Symphony No. 2.” Overall, the music
itself was lovely ~ not overwhelmingly
passionate like the Romantic composers,

not so traditional and technical as a Bach
piece, but also not so modem that the
audience couldn’t quite relate (as often
happens with modern music). It was
somewhere in-between — lighthearted
and pleasant, yet original nonetheless.
As I listened to the orchestra play,
my mind began to wander...l started
thinking about how undeniably difficult
it must be to play a complicated piece
not only ﬂawlessly, but so ﬂawlessly
that each person’s music is in complete
harmony with the 80 or so other
instruments being played! It’s all about
the timing ~ or so they say. Each
musician in the orchestra plays the beat
withinthe realrnofhis ownmind: “1, 2,

3, 1, 2, 3.”Andyet, amazingly enough, it
is impeccably melodious with everyone
else’s mind — it must be, or else the music
would, well, not be music.

l’ve forgotten much of my other
thoughts (next time, I’ll be sure to bring
a pen) while listening to the concert,
but I did notice one aspect of the
performance, common among all
orchestral pieces: each musical
instrument represented some aspect of
the symphony as a whole, relating it to
the overall theme. One could just
imagine, in “Cirmrs Polka” for example,
the quick, airy sounds of the
woodwinds representing the goofy
activity of the clowns, while the deep

and heavy drumming represented the
walk of an elephant. Likewise Professor
Vosbein says of his piece, “I came upon
the idea of a Masque. . .a party of

, guests wearing costumes. Full of

intrigue and romance. ..full of
possibilities.” I couldn’t quite identify
the exact representation of each
instrument (I mean, hey — that’s what
music classes are for, right?) and carmot
fully explain how Vosbein’s piece was
able to perform such a task. But
somehow, it did — somehow, in hearing
“Masque for Cello and Orchestra” as
my mind wandered from thought to
thought, I thought about parties and

masks, playﬁilness and merriment.

arias: 3 hours:

  

®c....e...mpus

     
    
 

 51.000 —- 53.000  your ﬂudem Group
tic-lluage fl.Il‘rIIll:‘Il‘5—él“=*;g ma-ﬁe Simple, Side" and 1'-"«'n.-2-9..

Mtdiipfe timidraisisig  milaiﬁrv. Ne  He mfﬁas. Just 
Fi.sr:dm‘tsI.rw dailies am  -tenth bi.  with the rzvnf-grim; tit-at weﬂel.

Pr;-rrr ff§1Rn—er§..‘EIorua:e*for (To?! .F‘mm;im-i;s~irzg.
388-923-3.238 »- WWt*J.€at’t1;;}E1ﬁftm£fi3.l5'3!E'.C-ﬁ3lT'l

IIIISI Hill IEIT
I III2 Illl
3 MIIIS "II [III
Ill" 453-9335 lll IIIIIIS

Woods Creek Grocery!!!

  

 
 
     

.r.PorksBot
  iandi .
 ,-Chieken

   R ; Open Late
i‘_'Pete’s,Oﬁgi'nal. Re<?lDe , ‘ 
‘ ’,vieIom‘emade,‘BBQ Sauce, on _ * I

. I Beef-_*  . I    

     sMoK|N' JlM’S      
I = j   f;O7d Virginia FirehouseRecipes   , I 

I in  is  '   Dine In or Takeout A I   I
Fridays and {Saturdays ‘til 2:30a.m.

 

1/2 lb. Burgers
All-Beef Hot Dogs
“Ba|oney" Burgers

Wings - Hot or Mild
Hamburger Steak‘
French Fries
« Seafood Baskets
(seasonal)

A         THANKYOU WASHINGTON & LEE i=oR YouR Business
 I       A  *“SINCERELYSMOKIN7JIM     t

  
    
  
   
  
 

  PETE’iS BAR-‘B-QUE STATION
Catering‘-Service

  
    
  
  

This is in no way

 an April Fools Iokei

  
 
   
  

Along with :
Galactic

  
  
 

Disco Biscuits I Stop by and see I
I Dmk Trucks for yourself!
The Other Ones

      

and manrne   ."‘““€‘.??“7”

 

    

l1RlN j mos
SPORTS EDITOR
El\l\1L'_lUIlLSE@\Y«lL7.

Ti-rt. RI\”%{;‘r~1"U1\'l'l3Ell

MONDAY, MARCH 31, 2003

 

PORTS

Baseball ends winning streak in a game against Va.

 

  

JEB BR s/THE R1NG—TUl\1PH1

HIT IT OUT OF THE PARK! A General steps up to bat in last Tuesday’s victory against the powerhouse Bridgewater Eagles, continuing the team’s stellar streak.

BY JOHN HYLAND
SPORTS WRITER

W&L’s baseball team record
breaking winning streak came to
an end at fifteen games after the
team dropped the second game of
a doubleheader against Virginia
Wesleyan on Saturday. The Gen-
erals prevailed in Game 1, how-
ever, and picked up two wins ear-
lier in the week against
Bridgewater and Hartwick to ex-
tend their streak. The team’s
record currently stands at an im-

pressive 17-3, 10-2 ODAC. They

- are a half game out of first place

in the ODAC behind Virginia
Wesleyan whose conference
record stands at 9-1.

It looked like the streak was
going to end with the Bridgewater
game, however, last Tuesday.
W&L opened up the scoring in
the fourth when junior pitcher
Bryan Mulhern doubled home
junior second baseman Austin
Allain to take a 1-0 lead. The
Eagles roared back in the sixth,
hitting three straight singles off

Men’s Lax wins two,

BY DONNY BANKS
SPORTS WRITER

The Washington and Lee
men’s lacrosse team rebounded
from two tough losses last week by
crushing Guilford, 19-3 , on Wednes-
day and defeating Lynchburg, 12-9,
Saturday afternoon.

Both opponents are in the
ODAC, which puts the Generals
record at 5-2 overall, 2-1 in the con-
ference.

The Guilford game proved to 1

be somewhat of a rest for the team,
which had already played four na-
tionally ranked teams. Although
Guilford (1-6, 0-2) scored the first
goal, W & L quickly came back and
led 3-1 at the start of the second
quarter.

Thanks to superior play by
junior attaclcman Matt Fink and jun-
ior midﬁelder Dustin Martin, who,
due to team injuries, was playing at-
tack, the Generals held a 10-1 lead
at the half.

V “Our team is a little banged up
right now, with guys like McNamara
out,” Head Coach Mike Cerino com-
mented. “We were forced to make
some changes like putting Dustin
at attack and using our bench a little
more. But I thought it was a spir-
ited effort on the part of the team

VI: II‘-lIH- II-l'U.— I II.-IH_I.I-I

 
       

l3OU1lQU

and especially the bench,” he
added.

In addition to Fink, who ﬁn-
ished with a career high six goals,
and Martin, who had three goals
and three assists, Richard Williams
had two goals, Rob Brown had a
goal and an assist, and Mark
McLewee added the same.

All three goalies, junior Ansel
Sanders, sophomore Pat Casey, and
freshman Brendan Smith, had solid
efforts with ﬁve saves.

The a g a i 11 st
m a t c h Lynchburg,
up with a team that
Iynﬂug s c o r e d
ranked more goals
17thna- against
tionally, W&L last
proved V year than
a much i did any
c lo s e r o t h e r
m e e t - midﬁelder Dustin Martin, ‘04 mm team. De-
ing. LC spite nine
(6-3,1-1) penalties

dominated the ﬁrst quarter, snag-
ging an early 4-0 lead. In the sec-
ond period, however, their boldness
subsided as Martin scored off of
an assist from Molinelli, and Fink
scored off a feed from Melanson and
then again unassisted.

In the third quarter, the Gener-
als simplygdominated. They

..

 

of Mulhern to tie the score at 1.
Senior Peter Dean relieved
Mulhern with one out in the in-
ning and two runners left on base.
Dean got the Generals out of the
inning but not before Bridewater
took a 2-1 lead. -
Bridgewater took the lead
into the top of the eighth inning
when Mulhern hit another RBI
double to score senior
centerfielder Bobby Littlehale
who led off the inning with a
single to tie the score at 2. The
game was still tied with two outs

is 5-2

notched two goals in a span of 42
seconds and mirrored LC’s ﬁrst
quarter with a 4-0 run. From there,
they jumped out to an 11-6 lead
and held on for the victory.

Martin led the team in scor-
ing with four goals, while Fink tal-
lied two goals and two assists. In
addition, McLewee added two
goals and one assist. In goal,
Sanders played well with 13 clutch
saves.

The win was significant

for 6:30 and a 47-24 shot disparity,
the Generals played well and can
now easily put their losses behind
them. _
Their next action will come
Tuesday against VMI in the an-
nual Lee-Jackson game. It will be
played at 7:30 at Rockbridge

County High School.

in the top of the ninth when
Allain doubled. Senior first
baseman Brian Gladysz came
through with a single that‘
scored Allain to give the Gener-
als a 3-2 lead. In the bottom of
the ninth, senior pitcher Michael
Hanson, who started the game
at shortstop, pitched a perfect
ninth inning to seal the victory.
Hanson pitched three scoreless
innings ofrelief to earn his first
victory of the season. The win
gave the Generals their first sea-
son sweep of Bridgewater since

1983. The Eagles entered the
weekend in sole possession of
third place in the ODAC with a
record of 6-2.

The Generals turned around to
face Hartwick in a non-conference
contest at home on Wednesday but
the game would prove to be much
less dramatic than the previous
days’ victory. W&L took an 8-0 lead
in the first two innings thanks in
large part to Gladysz, who hit two
homers in his first two at bats, driv-

. ing in four runs and Mulhern who

hit a homer and a triple over the ﬁrst
two innings. Mulhern would later hit
another two rim bomb, his team lead-
ing fourth homer, in the fourth in-
ning en route to a monstrous offen-
sive afternoon in which he went 4
for 4 with three runs scored and four
RBIs. Every General starter reached
base safely as the team pounded out
15 hits to cruise to a 15-2 victory.
Junior pitcher Mike Wert allowed
two runs over six innings to earn the
win and improve his record to a per-
fect 4-0 on the year. Sophomores
Ken Hackman and Brian Higgins
pitched three innings of shutout re-
lief

The Generals had gained se-
rious momentum entering the
weekend doubleheader with
conference leader Virginia
Wesleyan on Cap’n Dick Smith
Field. The Generals opened up
the scoring in the fourth inning
of game 1 on an RBI single by
sophomore third baseman Adam
Bullock who drove home
Mulhern to take a 1-0 lead. The
Generals added to their lead in
the fifth when Hanson led off
the inning by reaching first on
an error by the second baseman.
Allain walked and Littlehale
singled to load the bases for the
red hot Mulhern who delivered
with a two run single. The 3-0
lead was more than starting
pitcher Dean would need. The

Women’s tennisoompetes in

BY ALLISON PERRY
SPORTS WRITER

The Washington and Lee
women’s tennis team started out strong
in the Fab Five tournament with wins
over Claremont-Mudd-Scripps and Trin-
ity (Tex). The annual tournament, which
invites the top Division III teams in the
country, was held at Emory University
in Atlanta. The women left early Thurs-
day morning to prepare for matches on
Friday, Saturday, and Sunday.

On Friday, the Generals shut
down Claremont-Mudd-Scripps, 9-0.
CMS is tied for tenth place in the na-
tional rankings.

Sophomore Lindsay Hagerman led
the team with a 6-3, 7-5 win over eigth-
ranked Rebecca Dutton in the No. 1
singles match. Hagerrnan is currently
tied for 13‘place. Senior captain Erika
Proko defeated her opponent, 22’ ranked

Elizabeth DiNapoli, 6-1 , 6-1 in the No. 2
spot. Proko is ranked 26 in the nation

In the No. 3 singles match, senior
captain Laura Bnmo won her match 6-3 ,
6-0. Senior Brandi Jane Wedgeworth de-
feated her opponent 6-2, 6-0 at No. 4. At
No. 5 and 6, freshman Lisa Mabry and
junior Liz Law both won their matches 4-
6, 7-5 (10-2) and 6-2, 6-1, respectively.

In doubles play, fifth-ranked
Hagerman and Proko teamed up to de-
feat their opponents 8-2 at No. 1.
Bruno and Mabry won their match 8-
6 at No. 2. At No. 3, Law and sopho-
more Lora Farris also defeated their
opponents 8-6. CMS now has a
record of 6-8 overall.

On Saturday, the Generals won a
close match over Trinity, 5-4. Trinity
has a record of 7-4 overall. W&L im-
proved its record to 19-0 overall.

Hagerrnan led the way with a win
over ﬁﬁh- ranked Lindsay Smith, 1-6,

Wesleyan

PAGE 4

southpaw pitched brilliantly.

He overcame three General er- 7

rors to pitch seven shutout in-
nings, allowing four hits and
zero walks while striking out:

seven. The complete game vic- ,.

tory gave Dean his team lead-

ing fifth victory of the season.
The nightcap would go the

Marlins way from the start. _

They scored five runs on four “ii

hits in the first inning off of
Generals starter Dan Kagey,
thanks in part to two errors. The
lead would prove to be insur-

mountable. The Generals cut the 7

lead to four runs three times on A‘
a home run by Hanson in the
first and two run scoring hits

C7?

from Mulhern in third and the 4,

seventh. Mulhern also calmed "4
the Virginia Wesleyan bats as

he relieved Kagey in the fourth »
and allowed only one run over“;

six innings. The Generals V

threatened to cut even more into ‘
the Marlins lead on numerous -'-
occasions. They hit Virginia I?
Wesleyan pitchers Adam 
Hamilton and Zack Baker hard
all game, pounding out 12 hitsm
and hitting numerous outs to
the outfield. The Generals left a "
total of 11 runners on base in 8 7'
out of9 innings to endure a 7-3 
defeat. It was their first home
loss of the season. :-
Despite the loss, the Gener-7;
als outplayed the Marlins after
the first inning and should get *
another crack at them in the
ODAC playoffs. Bryan Mulhern 11
completed an incredible week on 3;’
Saturday in which he went 12 for K
16 at the plate with four runs 5
scored and ten RBIs. He also
pitched 11 and a third innings and‘
only gave up three runs. The Gen- 1
erals hope to begin a new streak
when they face Roanoke on Tues-
day in their last game before ’
Spring Break.

6-4, 6-2 at No. 1 singles. Proko de- (l
feated 16 ranked Berica Day 6-2, 6-0 at _J
No. 2. At No. 3, Bruno was defeated 5
by 36 ranked Heather McGowan, 6-4,
6-1. Wedgeworth had a victory of 6-1,
6-0 at No. 4 singles. At No. 5, Trinity’s
Jackie Mendillo defeated Mabry 6-3,?”
6-4. Law also lost her match to Christy
Austin, 6-4, 2-6, 6-4 in the No. 6 spot. 1

In doubles action, Hagerman and
Proko defeated the second-ranked
team of Austin and McGowan, 8-2 at
No. 1. At No. 2, Bruno and Mabry,
lost to the 15 ranked team of Smith ~
andAbbe Ulrich, 8-2. Farris and Law :3
teamed up to defeat their opponents
8-2 in the No. 3 spot. 

The Generals then played ﬁrst-'1‘
ranked Emory on Sunday morning. Re-
sults were not available at press time.

The women play next at Meth- _
odist on April 16 at 2:30 p.m. Meth- ’
odist is ranked 21*‘ in the nation.

Women’s lax now 7-1, Taffe honored 

FROM STAFF REPORTS

In a game played in Washing-
ton, D.C., Washington and Lee’s
Women’s lacrosse team defeated
Catholic 14-8. The team was led by
Kelly Taffe, ’04, who recorded an
eight-point afternoon. Katharine
Lester, ’06, and Leslie Bogart, ’03, ﬁn-
ished the game with two points

Squash team squashes competition

BY ERIN Juuus
SPORTS EDITOR

Washington and Lee’s latest
unofficial club sport, the squash
team, placed third in the third an-
nual Southern Squash Conference
tournament held last weekend,
March 21 and 22 in Chapel Hill, NC.

The tum-out this year was the
largest in the toumament’s history,
with UNC, UVA, NC State, Duke,
Wake Forest, Davidson and W&L
participating. UVA took first place
in the tournament, with 27 points,
while UNC placed second with 16
and W&L behind in third, with nine
points.

apiece.

Goaltender Joanna Perini, ’04, had
11 saves for the Generals.

The Generals take to the ﬁeld
again on Wednesday when it hosts
Bridgewater for a 4 p.m. match.

On another Lacrosse note, Taffe

has been named the Warrior/Inside

Lacrosse National Division III
Women’s Player of the Week. This

Virginia won the first two tour-
nament as well.

Greg Michaels won the first
ﬂight at the tournament while Nate
Johnson took the second ﬂight.
John Hyland took third in the fourth
ﬂight.

W&L had an excellent third-
place ﬁnish, considering acheived
this with only four people playing.

The tournament includes eight
separate competitions for players in
the order by which their team ranks
them Ideally, a team would take at
least eight people so that everyone
could play in a ﬂight, seated one
through eight according to their
abilities.

news was released on March 26. '
Taffe earned this honor after
a week in which she recorded“
eight goals and one assists in wins}
over Hollins and Mary Washing-‘”
ton. Taffe then led the Generals '
to a 23-7 victory over Lynchburg”
on Tuesday, March 25 when she
scored six goals and added two”
assists. 1

.. r_aw._-gﬁ’

Had the entire team gone to the’
tournament, it looks like W&L
would leave easily taken ﬁrst. 7'

This year, there has been a
lot of interest in the squash
team, with about 25 people buy-_
ing T-shirts designed by thef
team. The team’s hope is that‘;
its success in this tournament‘.
will modivate the administration,
to build new squash courts and
to allow the team to become more‘;
organized within the sports club"
ranks. ..

Because the team is comprised ,1
mostly of sophomores, the hope
is that the team will remain on,"
campus and continue to grow.

 

7‘

I

Fab 5 tourney;

   

  
 
   
  
   
    
     
  
    
   
   
  
   
  
  
   
   
   
   
  
  
   
    
   
 
   
   
    
   
 

1 ‘Bionic’ surgery successful at Stonewall J

or ALICE STEINBACH-KIRWAN
ASSISTANT OPINIONS EDITOR

Fearing reprisals for his unpopular abolishrnent of Spring
erm, University President Tom Burish recently underwent
an experimental procedure to dramatically alter his physique.
“Behold the Overman,” Burish intoned at yesterday’s
mess conference, his bass voice now six octaves deeper
- than the previous mezzo-soprano.
_ Burish currently stands nine feet four inches tall, with
two additional arms and an extra head. He weighs 667
4 ounds, which, he assured reporters, “was all beefcake.”
“Sure, I tried Creatine, Pilates, Power-Yoga, but noth-
ing seemed to work,” Burish said. “I didn’t have the muscle
mass to be an effective president. It was embarrassing at
faculty meetings when (University Provost) Larry (Boetsch)
a d to put me on his shoulders so everyone could see me.”

Prior to his operation, Burish stood ﬁve feet seven
inches and weighed in at 120 pounds.

The surgery, the ﬁrst of its kind, was performed in the
- dvanced Experimental Ward of Stonewall Jackson Hospital.
“Most people don’t realize how advanced Stonewall
Jackson really is,” said University Physician Jane Horton.
The surgery, while partially successful, did not fulﬁll
all of Washington Hall ’s expectations: Burish remains un-
le to ﬂy, shoot eye-lasers or deliver compelling speeches.
“All the same, it’s amazing what was accomplished,”

, said Horton, who supervised the procedure.

“We harvested body parts from Larry Boetsch, (Dean
Students) David Howison, (Dean of the College) Tom
illiains and (Philosophy Professor) Eduardo Velasquez.
‘ ough their deaths were regrettable, the whole is cer-
inly greater than the sum of its parts,” Horton said.

Of special interest is Boetsch’s head, which helps
ordinate the movements of Burish’s ﬁve-foot legs. In
,, e of damage to the primary cranium, Boestch’s head
assume temporary control of the body.

“I applaud President Burish’s bold move,” said
oetsch’s head. “He is truly an inspired leader who will
V ow W&L to move to the next level.”

_ , “Very little can stop Me now,” Burish agreed, extend-

    
   
    
  
  
  
     
   
   
   
 
 

th.”

Burish’s surprising move has caught opponents un-
‘pared. Already many Lexington locals have taken to
- rshipping Burish as a god, leaving burnt offerings at
. Lee House residence.

Burish appears pleased with recent developments.
“My will be done,” he said.

     
   
    
   
   
   

BY Lucius ]uNius DESHA

   
   
    
    
   
  
  
  

‘ ool Washington and Grant Univer- this under the ra

    
     
   
  
   
   

s time to shake things up.”

   
     
   
 
   
  
   
 
   
  
   
  
  
  
   
    
   
   
   
  

somehow intervene.

    
     
    
     
  
  
  

on at a recent press conference. He was referring to

  
   
   
   
  
   
   
   

ence that is alcohol at Washington and Lee Univer-

    
    
  

,adamanti.ne.c1aws..thr0ugh  sight-hand. i‘rhe_i3oa.rds  I
Faculty, the Student Body-alliwill gcower before My

one. It is a natural progression for this
BUSINESS MNAGER great institution. When I said in my
inaugural speech that the only thing I
I _ In a historic moment in Washing- would not consider changing was the
nandLee Universityhistory, President Honor System, I wasn’t kidding.”
m Burish announced today that ef- Student response has yet to be
' 've immediately, he has renamed the gauged, as Burish has managed to “ﬂy
,” in the words of
. Said Burish, “In light of the changes one dissenting University official who
eseekto aocomplishatW&L. . .,Imeari, requested anonymity, “thus, not too
&G; it presents a far more appropriate many people know yet.” However, an
V d politically correct image to the out- information campaign hehned by sev-
1 ~ world. Besides, it’s been over 125 eral members of the student body aims
since we last changed our name; to enlighten the entire campus of the
change. The campaign will be headed
This shocking announcement by former BC president John “no I
mes hard on the heels of another sur- didn’t cheat” Comly.
, ise recently sprung on the University Said sophomore Jackson Forrest
mmunity, that Spring Term will be Hunter IV, “I just found out about this
' ' - deffective as of the 2003-2004 awful news from [Phil] a couple of min-
: cademic year. Student outrage to the utes ago. I can’t believe Burish would
.. oposal was so vociferous that yells do this.” He has promised that he and
.v protest outside Washington Hall his fellow “rebel brothers” from the
couldbe heard as far awayas Wal-Mart, Kappa Alpha Order will wage war
where students held a similar protest. against the “Northem impostor who
‘s protest was an attempt to appeal has hijacked this ﬁne school.” He ex-
to the greater Lexington population to claimed, “The war’s not over yet, and
the latest battle has just begun!”
Burish explained, “This move Burish also announced another,
' should not come as a surprise to any- slightly less controversial move: he

 

 005 H 1- 1/771

&L renamed Washington and Grant

is installing an automatic garage door ing a couple of alumni to explain the
opener for the Lee House garage. This situation and to ask them to write us
decision is following an incident in another check with the new name, but
the beginning of the year in which he they just hung up on me. Actually, I
tried to shut the doors and student think this one guy had a heart attack
outrage quickly prompted him to open and dropped to the ﬂoor, because it
them again. Burish resolved that he sounded more like a ‘thump’ than a
would ﬁnd a way to ensure that his ‘click’ when the conversation ended.”
vehicles will be protected from the el- When asked whether he thought
ements. Said Burish, “Renaming the of consulting students about the
school is the perfect way to ensure change and its potential conse-
that Traveller can’t come home, so it quences, Burish replied, “Student
doesn’tmatter anymore. Besides, [my voices only serve as a rubber stamp,
wife] Pam and I miss being able to click anyway. It really wasn ’t necessary
that little button and watching the and I wanted to get this put through
doors open and close for us. Now we before the end of my ﬁrst year. Any-
can. And anyway, doesn’t moderniz- way, in four years’ time, it will be an
ing the house a little bit just lend extra entirely new student body and no-
ﬂair to ourwhole progressive theme?” body will remember this whole af-
In related news, Robert W.H. fair.”

Mish, Director of Alumni Affairs, re- That remains to be seen: protestor
ports having trouble depositing this Comly has vowed to stay on indeﬁ-
month’s batch of checks from alumni. nitely, and even join forces with ever-
He said, “All of the checks are made angry alumnus David Keeling if nec-
out to ‘Washington and Lee,’ so when essary. Said Comly, “Look, man, I’m
I went to First Union earlier this aﬁer- not going to put up with this
noon to try and deposit these, they bull****. Who does Burish think he
refused because the name on the ac- is, anyway? If you don’t believe in
count is now ‘Washington and Grant.’ Washington and Lee traditions, please
I don’t know what to do. I tried call— leave NOW!”

Lex Po cracks down on student a

cohol

RING

 
 

rig
AMAZING BUT TRUE. In an amazing display on the Front Lawn this weekend, Young’s troops captured

the recently-reﬁgured Burish and are alledgedly forcing him to cage—dance in the Mason—New Room.

Special: APRIL FOOLS DAY ISSUE

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

" HI-TUM

T/yr rfurirllf mile of Washington curl Lee Uuiurrrihpriurr 7897 (D Orr/rile of: ,ohi.zr/lu.eriu

NG DEFEATS BURISH    

Young overthrows ‘Bionic’

VOLUME CV, N o.XXV
TUESDAY, APRIL 1,2003

Burish; names himself president-for-life

BY MATTIE BUTLER-SWORDS
EDITOR IN BETROTHAL

In a morning coup d’etat, Mike
Young, former director of University
Security, overthrew former-President
Tom Burish and appointed himself
“president-for-life.”

Young, who also awarded him-
self the Rectorship of the Board of
Trustees, the Alumnus of the Year
Award (First Class) and the rank of
F ield-Marshall of the Rockbridge
County Sheriﬁ°’s ofﬁce, addressed
crowds on the Washington Hall bal-
cony.

“Washington and Lee was a fes-
tering heap of decadence, falling ﬁve
places in the U.S. News and World
Reports rankings in six years,” Young
said. “I rechristen this place the
‘Young World University,’ which will
regain its former greatness through
the sheer force of one man’s iron will.”

Duke-Colonel Steve Tomlinson,
formerly assistant director of Univer-
sity Security, claims that Youngist
forces control nearly all of the Uni-
versity grounds.

“There are still a few reactionar-
ies sending sporadic ﬁre from out of
the Physical Plant building,”
Tomlinson said. “The napalm drops
in two hours.”

Young seized power after build-
ing a coalition between his elite W&L
security ofﬁcers and the VMI cadet
corps, which swore allegiance to him
after being promised the inhabitants
of two of W&L’s ﬁve sororities.

Though many were surprised at
the palace coup ’s speed, others claim
to have regularly monitored his weap-
ons build-up.

“We’ve been aware for years that
Mike (Young) has been creating poi-
son gas,” said Debra Kling, secretary
in the Treasurer’s Ofﬁce. “Anyone

who’s sat near him during one of his
Co-op lunches can tell you that.”

Burish, easily captured during his I

usual morning rim, is believed to be a

cage-dancer in the Mason New Room, ‘

now renamed “The President—for-
Life’s Palace of Pain and Pleasure.”

“No more dancing,” the former
president begged. “Please, no more
dancing.”

Burish has fared better than
many in his irmer circle, many of whose
skulls now form a commemorative
pyramid in front of Young Chapel.
Others have been consigned to harsh
labor, supplementing the building
crews already at work on the new
Young Commons for the Harmonious
Reeducation of the Students.

Lexington, an economic depen-
dent of W&L, has already pledged
loyalty, renaming all of its streets af-
ter Young, his hunting dogs and his
favorite NASCAR racers.

Former Mayor Clemp Dudley has
been replaced by Cletus Didley, a
member of the Youngist Party.

“Finally, I can shoot parking vio-
lators on sight,” said Marquis-Lieu-
tenant Thomas ‘Baner’ Bane,” for-
merly a Security Office sergeant. “Ver-
ily, a great and glorious day has
arisen.”

Yellowbrick Road, a neighboring
pre-school, has formed Lexington’s
first Young-Youth group, which
marches in uniform, chanting pro-
Young slogans.

Despite these developments,
conﬁdants of the new president-for-
life are preparing for insurgency.

Fearing possible assassination
attempts from Burish-loyalists, Young
has ordered the creation of body-
doubles. Master of the Presidential

’ Kitchens Alexandre da Silva has been

overseeing the candidates’ force-feed-
ing and scalp-waxing.

«vmaﬂ news briefs to

 

 

Datz crowns himself Unsung General of the Year

William “Burr” Datz, chairman of the Student Success Committee, be-
stowed the John Elrod Un-Sung General Award on himself in a lavish cer-

emony this past Saturday.

The award, named aﬁer the previous W&L president, carries a $500

prize.

Industry insiders claim the move was not unexpected.

“Don’t tell anyone this, but Burr (Datz) hasn’t had a university pay-
check in ﬁve months,” said Panhellenic advisor Theresa Glassman. “Dean
(of Students David) Howison had to let him go after no one went to his

leadership training seminars.

“He really needed the money.”

Several of Datz’s associates insist the award is fair.

“Can you think of a man less-recognized on campus?” asked IFC advi-
sor Matt Jacobs ’O2. “No one knows what he does. Hell, I’ve been working
with him for a year, and I still don’t know what he does.”

Datz insists, however, that he did not “buck” for the award.

“To be honest, I’ve been promoting myself as much as I could,” Datz
said. “Look at my hair, my canes, my odd nickname—I’ve been screaming

for attention.”

Although most of the $500 prize was spent in a post-award celebration
at the Palms, Datz said he will use the remainder to buy a statue of himself

for St. Patrick’s Catholic Church.

Washington and Lee changes name to Washington and Lee

By Amy CANDERSON truth is, we had believed that it was perfectly legal
Cm EDITOR for anyone 18 and up to drink any sort of alcohol,”
said Ray. “In fact, we thought it was legal for an
“We’ve had enough, quite frankly, and it’s time for 18-year old to be drunk in public while carrying

' to stop,” said Dobert Ray, Sheriﬂf of the City of Lex- around two bottles of malt liquor.”
“But one day, not too long ago, I had a dream, a
 the commonusage of alcohol onthe W&L campus. “Beer dream in which that chick from the Virginia State Sea],
in public areas, students bragging about their level of you know, the one with the spear and the sword stand-
' intoxication, I teH you it’s ridiculous. Why, my sources ing over that one dude, you know who I’m talking
I a - say that Greek organization even advertise the fact about. Anyway, she said to me, ‘Dobert, alllllllcohol
. they have grain alcohol to ﬁeshmen during ms .” laws, check the allllllllcohol lawwwwwssss! ! ! ’ So I
, Ray promised quick and decisive action to end woke up that morning and started thumbing through

hat he called the “problem, nay, I daresay pesti- the Virginia laws on alcohol.”

But that wasn’t the only part of Ray’s revela-
I .” However, he also acknowledged that the “pes- tion. “I was looking through it, and lo and behold,
I tilence” had already gone on for far too long. “The it was illegal to be drunk in public. All the guys

down at the station were absolutely shocked. I re-
member Oﬂicer Mith-say said ‘It’s ILLEGAL for any-
one under 21 to drink!! Can you believe that??! !”

However, despite shock and amazement at the
newfound rules, Ray promises to stop the thousands
of lawbreakers at W&L. “We will have oﬂicers at Frat
parties every night to ensure that underage drinkers
are stopped. We will work with W&L security to make ”
sure that the freshmen dorms are completely alcohol phatter’ more funky appeal’
free. And if the Greek organizations do not relent to
our zealous law enforcement, we may have to monitor
their purchases to keep them from buying alcohol.”

Ray concluded the press conference by say-
ing “It’s important that we take these steps now.
After all, nothing builds disrespect for the law faster
than letting it go unenforced.”

In an effort to improve the W&L’s image with minority high school
students, Board of Trustees Rector Frank Surface announced the college’s
ﬁfth name change since its founding in 1749.

“Washington and Lee no longer stands for George.Washington and
Robert E. Lee,” Surface said. “We have renamed it for (actor) Denzel Wash-
ington and (director) Spike Lee.”

“To be frank, having a college named aﬂer two slave-holders doesn’t
really help us ‘connect’ to young African Americans,” said Director of
Admissions William Hartog. “The administration decided we needed a

“By choosing two black entertaimnent ﬁxtures, we hope to more readily
appeal to that demographic,” Hartog said.
Current busts and likenesses of the two generals will be removed inApril.
Replacement images of Washington, 47, and Lee, 53, should be up soon after.
“On the plus side, we don’t need to change our stationary,” Surface said.
Surface also expressed hopes that alumni would not notice the change
until aﬁer the Summer Phone-a-thon.

 

  

 

'l.‘.l.i__E:. PHr~'rj‘uM RING

TUESDAY, APRIL 1, 2003

PRIL FOOLS

End of p Te means ﬁve ne sororities

lFlLEl)l{O'l0

RECRUITMENT ROCKS! Sorority recruitment won’t be as easy as these Theta sisters had it Five new srats will ratchet up the competition

BY Misnr Goc
STAPH \\"RIn3R

Washington and Lee’s sorority
row is going to be a bit more crowded
next year. Five new sororities will be
joining the ranks of our ﬁve well-es-
tablished ones beginning in the fall
of 2003. Panhellenic and the W&L
Greek community are proud to wel-
come Delta Delta Delta, Delta Gamma,
Sigma Sigma Sigma, Sigma Kappa, Phi
Mu, and Delta Zeta, to our hallowed
halls.

The decision to invite these
chapters to colonize was made at last
week’s meeting of the Panhellenic
Council aﬁer much deliberation. “We
discussed the possible outcomes of
this decision for hours,” says Direc-
tor of Student Activities and Panhell
Advisor Teresa Glassman, “but in the
end, we decided that the pros deﬁ-

nitely outweighed the cons. Come
one, come all!”

The reasons for this startling an-
nouncement are based mostly upon
the quota system implemented dur-
ing sorority rush. According to this
system, the number of girls going
through recruitment is divided by the
number of houses, thus deciding the
size of each pledge class. For example,
when 200 girls enter the rush process
and there are ﬁve houses, each house
has a quota of 40 new members. How-
ever, with the ﬁve new chapters on
campus, quota will be reduced to 20.
This will present the females in the
Greek system with numerous advan-
tages.

For one thing, smaller pledge
classes will mean more intimacy. The
new members will get to know each
other much better than they currently
do. It will also be signiﬁcantly easier

for new members and initiated sisters
to become well acquainted with one
another. “There’s often a gulf between
the upperclassmen and new members.
The lowered quotas will ﬁx this prob-
lem, y’all,” says Suzy Clark Wellington-
Smythe, a junior who did not wish to
reveal her sorority afﬁliation.

Lowered quota will assure that
everyone will make quota, as each
house can surely find twenty girls that
they ﬁnd acceptable. Glassman stated
that she is particularly excited about
this aspect of it. “With ten sororities,
every young woman will be sure to
ﬁnd her own special place. This way,
we can guarantee that nobody falls
through. With so many choices, how
can you go wrong?”

The question now arises as to
how to house these new sororities.
Clearly, each chapter must be given
an equally impressive ediﬁce to call

  

home. “It wouldn’t be fair to give Chi
O, Theta, KD, Kappa and Pi Phi the
largest and best houses simply be-
cause they were lucky enough to get
here ﬁrst,” says Panhell Council mem-
ber Lee Taylor Barton, “We need to
ﬁnd a way to allocate sorority re-
sources as fairly as possible.”

Fortunately, the need for a read-

justment of Frank Parson’s Way comes
at a very auspicious time for
Panhellenic. The President and his min-
ions are on the brink of abolishing
Spring Term while proposing a mas-
sive tuition increase. These changes
will result in a marked increase in Uni-
versity funds. President Burish stated
that “We have two options for all of
this money we will be receiving. We
can either use it to actively recruit a
student body that will hate W&L and
transfer, thus saving us more money,
or we can use it to build ﬁve new so-
rority palaces for the srat lords to in-
habit.” Glassman feels certain that
Panhell can use their collective femi-
nine wiles to persuade the adrninistra-
tion to adopt the latter proposal.

The plan now, if Panhell does
procure said funds, is to bulldoze the
five standing houses and build ten
smaller ones, all of which will be iden-
tical in size and structure. However,
the insides will each be painted in the
sorority’s colors. “The new houses
will be absolutely darling and so much
fun!” said Glassman.

The men of W&L are meeting the
upcoming invasion of the sororities
with mixed reviews. “On the one hand,
our odds of scoring at mixers will be
greatly increased, as we will have
twice as many of these mixers each
year. On the other han we’ll be forced
to deal with double the number of
freshman girls screaming songs about
their new sororities on the morning
after bid night. It will be a mixed bless-
ing,” says sophomore fraternity mem-
ber Johnson Anderson Howard VII.

The Greek community of Wash-
ington and Lee is anxious to see how
these new chapters will adjust to life
here. Says Glassman, “We’re enter-
ing a new era here at W&L, one of
universal peace and love for all on
Frank Parson’s Way.”

  
    
  
   
 
   
  
 
  
  
  
  
 
 
  
 
 
   
  
   
  
  
  
 
 
  
  
   
   
  
 
 
 
 
  
   
  
   
  
   
   
   
  
  
   
    
   
   
   
   

MORE GEN

Kappa Kapppa Gamma/ construction crew mixer a success j I

Saturday’s ﬁrst-ever mixer between W&L’s Kappa Kappa Gamma and
Lexington business Beetcherﬁeld Construction went “marvelously,” accord- ~
ing to L. Treadway Devon, KKG president. 

“It’s about time we fmally saw men with muscles,” Devon said. “W&Lw
boys are just so scrawny.”

The mixer was held in the Kappa sorority house, which required the sus-
pension of several of Panhellenic’s regulations, including the prohibition on
alcohol.

“I think it’s for a good cause,” said Panhellenic advisor Theresa Glassmari
“At W&L, we try to help our students understand people from all backgrounds, i
even the really poor and sucky ones.” ‘

At yesterday’s chapter meeting, Devon announced plans to mix with the
local Kiwanis lodge. W

“Sorry, 0lV&L fraternity Sigma Alpha Epsilon), you’re no longer the only
game in town.”

Burish to install electric doors on garage

Betsy Cossaboon armounced on behalf of President Burish that bids are
being accepted for installation of modern, electric doors for the Lee House
Garage. ’

“The President wants to protect his automotive investments and is tired
of those pesky cats,” said Cossaboon is a sparsely attended DuPont Audito-
rium announcement held during Wednesday’s Spring Term forum. “Tommy
didn’t want anyone to know about this, either,” she added in response to a
question from local resident John “Johnnie” Blackmann.

Pressed as to the whereabouts of Traveller’s ghost, Cossaboon responded
“That old hag has long ago been sent to glue factory.”

Bids for door installation are due outside Carol Calkin’s office in the Uni-
versity Center by 5 p.m. Friday.

Decagon vows to rival Cadavers in creepiness "
W&L’s co-eds finally have an answer to the male-only Cadaver Society.
This week the Decagon held its ﬁrst secret meeting and promised that, i

the areas of papering the campus with brightly-colored leaﬂets and sprz J

painting Wilson Field, women’s voices would no longer be stiﬂed. Mai

Chantilly Beauregard, Grand Poohbette of the Decagon, speaking on conci A

tion of anonymity, said, “For too long, boys have had all the fun with mystc ;

rious secret meetings, creepy anonymity and campus notoriety. With the Dec.
gon, my sisters and I promise to bring a women’s perspective to leaﬂet dI'0] ~
and spray art. Plus, women bring an artistic touch that is missing from tl.
boring “C” and skull symbol of the Cadavers.” ‘
The Decagon reported that it plans to raise funds for the construction 0.

a new bridge across the ravine. “Girls shouldn’t have to scrape their heels c

that hideous concrete mish-mash,” spat High Prietess of Philanthropy, Allis

Claudette Brightley Smithton.

Learning Enlightening Girl Students (LEGS) President Susan C. Amaz
approved, “It’s time that W&L closed the gender campus creepiness gap."

\

 

“My new bionicly-enhancedbody will allow
Me to destroy Spring Term and the Greeks

unchecked.”

~ex-PresidentBu1ish, before his surgery
atStonewall Jackson Hospital

te of the Week

Editor s Note: General Lee stopped spinning in grave

THE PHI-TUM RING

just long enough to pen this piece for the Phi.

Founder



J. the Ripper, 1898L

When Torn Burish succeeded me as University Presi-
dent last July, I was conﬁdent that the traditions I had
both initiated and continued would be properly stewarded.
I was nearly certain that the principles which governed
my brief, but inﬂuential, administration
would be carried into the 2 1 st century. Af-
ter all, Burish was groomed at Vanderbilt,
a fine Southern university its own right.

PINIONS

Lee: Burish is destroying my school

One hard-earned lesson from the battleﬁeld is that communi-
cation is essential to the success of any campaign. Burish has
alienated students and alumni by not involving them in the
decision process or even informing them that Spring Term was
under consideration. No doubt, many of them thought the
issue was decided after last year’s faculty vote.

Other key features of my administration were the mod-
ernization of the curriculum and the cre-
ation of the Journalism School. Today,
Spring Tenn allows W&L to boast an im-
_____ROBERT   mense and varied catalog and to offer pro-

PRESIDENT, 1865-70

Editor in chief
Opinions Editor
Arts & Life Editor
Photo Editor
Sports Editor
Asst. News Editor
Photographer

Power Trippin’

I LuvU, Hilary
TakesitdowntoParad'seCity
Good Friend Haynes
Picas? Is that a Frat?
Lord of the Swords

Didn’t De-pledge!

Copy Editor Doesn’t Come to the Oﬂice

Business Manager Uncle Cletus
Circulation Director Get Well Soon!
Advertising Assistant ?

The Phi-tum Ring is published once a year during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee Univer-
sity, Lexington, Virginia. The Washington and Lee Publi-
cations Board is owned by the Editor in chief and The
Phi-tum Ring otherwise rules the school.

The Phi-tum Ring welcomes all irresponsible submis-
sions and letters. Submission is in the University Center mail-
box at 5 pm. every Friday. Pictures appear in the following
week’s edition. The Phi-tum Ring deserves the right to broad-
cast submission for fun and proﬁt. Letters and columns prob-
ably reﬂect the opinion of The Phi-tum Ring, especially ones
from crazy “alumni.” We don’t get advertising, because Uncle
Cletus ain’t too bright. This newspaper laughs in the face of
current court deﬁnitions of libel and obscenity.

The Phi-tum Ring
Mailing Address: University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Street Address: 31 Washington Street
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Fax: (540) 462-4059
Email: ring@wlu.edu
http://ring.wIu.edu

   

Annual Subscription Rate: One Meeellyon Dollars

 

Although the beginning of his term
began less than auspiciously when he shut the doors to
my garage, preventing Traveller’s ghost from entering his
stall, the rest of his term has been an unexpected and
unprecedented train wreck. It began more than 100 years
after the end of my tenure, but Spring Term is, without
doubt, one innovation that has pleased me to no end.

At the conclusion of the War of Northen Aggression,
I ﬁelded offers from throughout the country to head cor-
porations, speak to organizations and lead many universi-
ties. I chose Washington College because education was
the surest way to bring together a nation ripped asunder.
I strived to make Washington College a national univer-
sity so young men from the South and the North could be
educated as the next generation of leaders of a united
people. Burish’s ill-considered actions threaten to tear
apart a University dedicated to national unity.

Regardless ofhis feelings about the value of Spring Term,
he has grossly mismanaged the public relations of the issue.

 
 

 
 

“Burish is best.”
-Erin Julius, brainwashed

  

 
 

grams, such as Washington Term, music
trips to London, art trips to Italy, and ﬁnance trips to Ger-
many, which furﬂrer enrich the curriculum. Eliminating Spring
Term would greatly impinge on the University’s ability to
offer the varied curriculum I began to build 138 years ago.
Finally, so many colleges and universities through-
out the nation are working to ﬁt a mold deﬁned by “The
Princeton Review” or “U.S. News and World Report’s”
rankings. W&L has always been a unique and special
institution that attracts young men, and now women, dif-
ferent from the cookie-cutter students at Amherst and
Swarthmore. Next to the Honor System, few aspects of the
school define it more completely than Spring Term. To
remove it now, especially for ﬁnancial reasons, would be
disastrous to a well-earned reputation for difference.
I think General Washington would join me in coun-
seling Burish that one should never let money make one ’s

decisions.

  Wouldyou rather have world  

 

“Boo world peace. :4 ,,
-Brett Kirwan,
cranky conservative

-Katie Howell ‘04

Thomas, watch carefully how you govern my school. with the Phi outside Lee Chapel this past Wednesday.

  
    
  
  
 
  
  
 
 
   
  
   
 
  
  
  
 
    
      
    
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
  
   
      

' Goo Plum; Hiwns TheP/ri-t1mIRirr,g '
DEAD MEN DO "rm TALES. General Lee in his interviei’

 
 
  
    
    

“ﬁnitel OT
Asher Simcoe.”
-Kate Guy, ‘04

“Like, duh, Spring Term.”
-Jeb! Brooks ‘05

