 

 

  

FRIDAY
Edition

Volume LXI

Dr. William Webb Pusey has been

* named Dean of the College at Wash-

ington and Lee University by Pres-
ident Fred C. Cole. Dean Pusey fills
the administrative vacancy created
by the resignation of Leon F. Sensa-
baugh as Dean of the University.
Dr. Pusey is also professor of Ger-
man on the Thomas Ball Founda-
tion and head of the German de-

: _ partment.

The appointment reflects a change
in W&L’s administrative organiza-
tion. Previously, the Dean of the
University directed the College of

 

_ Arts and Sciences and was respon-

«Che Ring-tumn Phi

sible to the president for affairs
of all W&L’s academic divisions.
Dr. Pusey while being the Univer-
sity’s principal academic officer, will
not exercise direct authority over
the deans of the School of Law and
the Schoo! of Commerce.

“Because of W&L’s traditional and
continuing emphasis on the liberal
arts, I think it is appropriate that
the university have a dean devoted
exclusively to this area of learning
and that this officer be a man whose
training and experience stem from
the liberal arts,” President Cole
said.

 

President Cole described Dr. Pusey
as an “eminently qualified” choice
for the college’s deanship.

Dr. Pusey is a scholar of the first
rank, a respected teacher, and a
man of excellent experience in ad-
ministrative matters through his
valuable service on many and varied
faculty committees.” President Cole
said. “By appointing him Dean, we
will not be losing one of our best
teachers, for he will continue to
teach, but I feel that Washington
and Lee will benefit all the more
from his leadership.”

Under the new

 

administrative

Washington and Lee Semi-Weekly Newspaper

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA, SEPTEMBER 16, 1960

alignment, Dr. Pusey, commerce
school Dean Lewis W. Adams, and
law school Dean Charles P. Light
will hold equal administrative sta-
tus, a situation “best suited to the
particular needs of Washington and
Lee,” President Cole said. Dr. Pusey,
however, will normally act in the
President’s behalf in his absence.
Dr. Pusey holds a Bachelor’s de-
gree from Haverford College, a
Master’s from Harvard, and his doc-
torate from Colombia University.
His major field of study has been
German impressionism, and he has
also specialized in American-German

 

Dr. Pusey Named New Dean of College

literary relations. He is the author
of two books and numerous reviews
and articles in scholarly journals.
During World War II, he served in
the United States Naval Reserve,
being cited for this work as an in-
terpreter in interrogation of the Ger-
man Naval Command at the end
of the war.

The father of two teen-age daugh-
ters, he has been a member of the
Lexington and Rockbridge county
school boards. He is regional asso-
ciate for Western Virginia of the
American Council of Learned So-
cieties.

FRIDAY
Edition

Number 1

 

W&L Fraternities Pledge 247 Freshmen

 

Mrs. duPont Donates

Half Million Dollar
Fund To University

A fund of more than half a million dollars honoring Thomas
Ball, the late brother of Mrs. Alfred I. duPont, has been
transferred to Washington and Lee University through the
terms of a trust established by Mrs. duPont, President Fred

C. Cole announced today.

Valued at $587,663, the fund will be designated the

*Thomas Ball Scholarship Fund and

 

represents the largest single addi-

By GEORGE HONTS

The 247 members of the Class of
1964 who pledged to W&L’s 18 fra-
ternities marked a decline of 22 from
the number who pledged during the
1959 Rush Week.

Percentage wise, 82 per cent of
the Class of 1963 pledged during
their Rush Week, while only 76
per cent pledged this year.

The immediate reason for the drop,
which halted a four-year period of
increased pledging by freshmen, is

22 Fewer Freshmen Pledge This
Year, Causing 6 Per Cent Drop
From 1959; Names Are Listed

Officials had expected a decline in
fraternity pledging in 1959, accord-
ing to a September, 1959, Ring-tum
Phi article. However, the full impact
of the changing academic and social
scene at W&L was not felt during
that Rush Week.

The loss of revenue from lack of
freshmen boarders in the fraternity
houses last year caused most, if not
all, houses to raise their bills to meet
increased costs. Whether fraternity
bills will rise again this year or
not, remains to be seen. Some treas-
urers have taken the viewpoint that
costs have reached a plateau and

Sigma Alpha Epsilon
Sigma Nu
Phi Gamma Delta
Kappa Alpha
Delta Tau Delta
Lambda Chi Alpha....
Kappa Sigma
Beta Theta Pi
Phi Kappa Sigma
Phi Kappa Psi
Delta Upsilon ....
Zeta Beta Tau
Phi Delta Theta ....
Pi Kappa Phi
Sigma Phi Epsilon
Sigma Chi
Pi Kappa Alpha ....

Rush Week Box Score

This is the complet list of fraternities and men pledged by each:

   
 
 
 
 
 
  
 

  

Dr. Allen Is
First Guest
Lecturer

A professor of American history
at the University of London will be
the first guest lecturer to visit the
Washington and Lee University cam-
pus this year.

Dr. Harry C. Allen, Common-
wealth Fund professor of American
history at University College, Lon-
don, will discuss “The Myth of
American Materialism” in a talk here
Monday, Sept. 19. Dr. Allen will
speak at 8 p.m. in duPont Auditor-
ium.

Dr. Allen came to the United States
for an international conference of
Anglo-American-Canadian historians
who are interested in the Ameri-
can Revolution. The conference was
held in Williamsburg earlier this
month.

An honors graduate of Oxford
University, Dr. Allen has studied
at several American universities. In
1959, he was a member of the Insti-
tute for Advanced Study at Prince-
ton University. He has also been a

Commonwealth Fund Fellow at
Harvard University.
Dr. Allen has studied at Johns

Hopkins University. He was a lec-

turer-in-residence at the University

of Virginia in 1957.

From 1938 until 1945, Dr. Allen
served as a major in the British

Army.

Dr. Allen is the author of several
historical volumes, including Great

Britain and the United States, British

Essays in American History and

 

tion to endowment for scholarship
purposes in Washington and Lee’s
history, President Cole said. In-
come from the fund will be used
“for the education of worthy boys
selected by the university,” ac-
cording to terms of the transfer.

September, 1961

President Cole said he expects
Washington and Lee to grant the
first Thomas Ball Scholarships in
September, 1961.
Mr. Ball, who attended Wash-
ington and Lee’s School of Law in
1902-1903, died May 24 at his home
in San Marino, Cal., near Los An-
geles, where he had practiced law
lince 1906. Born in Jacksboro, Texas,
Mr. Ball grew up in Northumberland
County in Virginia. He attended the
College of William and Mary prior
to enering Washington and Lee.

Deeply Grateful
“This gift, honoring a distinguish-
ed alumnus of Washington and Lee
and the brother of one of its most
devoted friends, adds significantly
to the university’s capability to ex-
tend its educational opportunity to
promising young men who need fi-
nancial assistance to come _ here,”
President Cole declared. “The need
for continued strengthening of our
scholarship program is one of the
matters of greatest significance to
this university, and we are deeply
grateful that Mrs. duPont chose
to help Washington and Lee in such
an important phase of its work.”

Mr. McDowell
Is Bradford

 

not easily discernible. Few frater-
nity men who knew of the drop laid
the reasons at the doorstep of the
new commons or dormitories. Instead
they listed finances, desire for aca-
demic excellence and caution, cau-
tion by the rusher and the rushee,
as the major reasons for fewer
pledges.

It appears that many men will be
going deferred rush. Seventy-six
men are eligible for deferred rush
which will begin four weeks from
now.

SAE Has 22

Sigma Alpha Epsilon gathered the
largest pledge class with 22 fresh-
men going their way. Sigma Nu
pledged the second largest number,
21. Phi Gamma Delta netted 18
men while Delta Tau Delta, Lambda
Chi Alpha and Kappa Alpha each
pledged 17 men. A complete listing
of the number of men pledged to
the houses is made below in the
Rush Week Box Score.
The 247 pledges this year is fewer
than the total which pledged in
1956 and began an upward spiral in
fraternity pledging which ended this
year. In 55, 265 men pledged from
a class which had fewer members
than the Class of 1964.

Little Change
Politically, the University Party
which contains 10 of the campus’s 18
houses pledged 140 men as com-
pared to 107 for the Independents.
The figure shows little change from
last year when the University party
held a 3l-man edge on freshmen.
Last year, Phi Gam and Kappa Sig-

the pledging with 27 and 24 respec-

ma, both Independent Houses, led

will remain at their present level,
temporarily at least. Others do not

Phi Epsilon Pi

 

1959 1960
a
a6 ah
ass0ee 27 18
+ 17
17 17
il 17
24 16
13 15
22 15
14 15
19 13
ae
il il
12 il
15 10
15 8
11 7
(ai caneuaananaie 2 4

 

 

seem so optimistic.
Nevertheless, those who have
pledged will soon begin the annual
round of introductory dances and
mixers at the neighboring women
colleges. Many Minks will be going
“over the hill” Saturday night as
actives and pledges set out to get to
know each other.

Listed below are the names of
the freshmen and transfer students
who pledged during Rush Week.

Beta Theta Pi— 16
George Craddock Craig Crockard,
Whit Fitzpatrick, Martin Galt, John
Ganong, Jeames Haley, Phillip
Lemon, Stanley Leydig, John Madi-
son, John Mendell, William Ogilvie,
Richard Roberts, John Roy, Bill
Rugg, William Wilkinson.

Delta Tau Delta—17

Ken Brandenburg, John Bridge-
forth, Joe Burkart, W. C. Erickson,
George Freeman, Brice Gamber, G.
W. Grossman, K. E. Jansen, Bruce
Lawton, John McDaniel, John Mich-
aelson, John Pearsons, S. Wesley
Pipes, Cotton Rawls, Fred Schaf-
fer Stephen Walsh, Eric Wilson.

Delta Upsilon—13

W. Dan Bell, Robert L. Cafferata,
Richard C. Colton, Robert Y. Foers-
ter, Paul A. Gilbert, H. Warren
Holden, John C. Lundy, John Mc-
Coy, Bruce W. Moss, Peter K. Noo-
nan, Douglas M. Powers, Samuel B.
Preston, Richard A. Litkenhans.

Kappa Alpha—17
D. C. Black, UI, A. E. Broadus,

 

tively.

 

T. M. Brumby, IV, P. M. Candler,
WL. Cawden, Jr. it. S. Croft, IH,
P. R. Farnsworth, Jr., K. E. Greer,
R. W. Henley, Jr., F. H. Jones, W. H.
Kidd, III, J. H. Morrison, III, H. P.
Smith, W. D. Suggs, III, M. G.
Thompson, G. M. Underhill, Jr., J.
E. Wilkerson.

Kappa Sigma—16
Benjamin Low Chapman, Richard
Ray Cruse, John Marion Dean, Jr.,
William Hall Fitz, Thomas Tyler
Goar, William Munroe Gotten, Rich-
ard Charles Heard, Bill Haywood
Kinsey, Henry Dumesnill Ormsby,
III, Thomas Synder Pace, Jr., Rob-
ert Dean Smith, II], Richard Atkins
Sult, Jr.. Herman Gordon Taylor,
William Melton Wallace, Jr., John
Walter Watts, III.

Lambda Chi Alpha—17
Alonze Atkins, Robert B. Barganz,
David M. Barr, Bruce T. Chosney,
John M. Dixon, Alfred E. Ekes,
Lynn R. Hammond, Scott R. Hard-
wick, Jay Jacot, E. Raymond Kid-
well, John F. Lackey, Thomas C.
Lewis, Richard W. McEnally, Dennis
R. Morgan, Robert C. Mettley, Don-
ald Palmer, William B. Petty.

Phi Delta Theta—11
James Cassidy, John McDowell,
George C. Wick, William Noonan,
Robert Carlson, Charles Gaines, Ran-
dy Wooten, Augustus Walton, Ken-
neth Lane, Mickey Bright, Roveet
Karn.

Phi Epsilon Pi—4
Alvin Hutzler, Mike Levin, Kenny
Rozenzwug, John Sarnet.

Pi Kappa Alpha—7

Breck Alexander, Robert Edward
Lee, James Strawbridge Maffitt,
Clarence Vaughan Nalley, Consider
Willett Ross, George Thomas Sisler,
Richard Taylor Spencer.

Pi Kappa Phi—i1
Philip S. E. Booth, Frederick Wil-
liam Boye, Allan John Brinton,
Frederick E. Cooper, Joseph Rich-
ard Couch, Timothy Walter Dols,
Robert Cloudman Farrar, Bruce
Thompson Houghton, Charles Daw-
son Kimbell, Walter Edward Steves,
Paul Freeman Van Avery.

Sigma Alpha Epsilon—22
Roger Ear] Allen, Jr., John William
Baker, A. J. Barranco, Jr., Sydney
Johnston Butler, Harry Preston Hen-
shaw, Smith Hickenlooper, John
Michale Jenkins, Harvey Ellis Jones,
Donald B. McFall, Sidney Walton
Maurras, Edward Mower Norton,
Fred Miller Ridolphi, UI, Henry
Moseley Sackett, III, Charles Brit-
ton Savage, Michael Wollman Shef-
fey, Jo Cowin Tartt, Peter Dowie
Trelogan, Jerome Turner, Samuel
Gwathmeny Tyler, Ernest Williams,
Jack Yarbrough, Jr.

Sigma—Chi—8
Bob Aylin, Jim Dunlap, Bob Ken-
nedy, Butch Kroos, George Paul,
George Priggen, Sonny Rayder, Rex
Wooldridge.

Sigma Nu—21
John Frederick Bartlett, Robert
Hall Brewer, Lester McLure Foote,
Thomas Robbins Green, Michael

 

 

 

 

 

| Bush and Backwoods. His latest Harrison, William Bradbury Hnkley
— | book, published this year, is entitled L P f : 7 : Hig
| The pena ect arly allteteg aw ro essor Fil Gamma Delte—I6 ee a eee
R. I. H. Belser, R. N. Bright, E. p.| Crawford Humphreys, Karl Kroeger,
. Professor Charles R. McDowell, a Browning, J. W. Clark, C. J. Clark Harry Landsiedel, Hollie Irwin
Record Number Of Dance | member of the Washington and Lee iil, W. &, Resex, dr, J. D, Bure, Jr, oe Sees Lanier Neal, Rabert
; University law faculty since 1927, T. Gardner Je. W. P. Ho kins J enry Powell, William McClure
Set Plans Have Been Sold has been named Bradford Professor H. Kirkley, J. B. eter’ D. Mc-| Schildt, Nicholas Ray Simmons,
D oe in we : of Law, according to Charles P. Dowell, W. H. Martin, dr, J. d. Jim T. Sylvester, Anthony James
ance Board president Jimmy | right, Dean of the School of Law. Smith, Jr, W. L Walker, Samuel Gwathmeny Walker,
Vann reports today that more dance th, Jr., . Van Dyke, J. :
a es — sold this year His appointment to the endowed Volpe. Pennington H. Way, Frank W.
em on hin : chair is effective immediately. Wright, Norman Edgar Youngblood.
A total of 820 plans have been ech teen — held by : ro uaheeseacy gay ; Sigma Phi Epsilon—10
sold to Washington and Lee stu-| Professor Clay ton Williams until his Peter H. Alford, David W. Britt, ; ;
a deste on few: Lash your nestle 70 retirement this year as Dean of the Ernest D. Levering, Walter L. Mc- Richard Winston Cooke, Christo-
ae plans had been sold after the first School of Law. Manus, Albert Tom Owen, Charles pher T. Conyers, Jr., Jere Davies
three months of the semester. Professor McDowell, who received C. Owen, James N. Powers, Judson eggs ——— sonar sane
Vann save thet the plans ere a| his LLB. degree from Yale Univer- P. Reis, James C. Smith, Burton| David Blalock Harrison, William
tremendous saving to students who| sity in 1924, has served on the Wash- Staniar, Spencer Stouffer, James N. England Pardington, Albert : M.
plan to attend the dance sets. The| ington and Lee law faculty contin- Wearn, Jesse F. Williams, John T, Taneye, | Bruce werwiek muder,
a oc Gt cat Gee wously since 1927, except for three Winebrenner, Hughston G. Wright, Thomas Edward Thielocke, Hobart
student to enter all of the dance| years duty with the U.S. Navy be- Jr. wee.
: sets and concerts. Without the plans| tween 1942 and 1945. | Phi Kappa Sigma—15 Zeta Beta Tau—I1
each dance cost $5, and each con-| He received his B.A. degree from | David J. Andre, Robert A. Bolen,| Jay Caplan, Nick Cohen, Richard
cert, $10. Centre College in 1915 and his M.A. | Austin Bray, Daniel J. Crumlish,| Coplan, Brian Dorsk, Barry Greene
7 Vann also urged the remaining| from Columbia University in 1920. Edward H. Hollman, Charles G.| David Hyman, John Raphael Bill
\ students to buy a dance plan, say~ He also holds a Doctor of Law de- Johnson, Lewis McNeace, Bruce R.| Solmson, Peter Trager, Jim Wallen-
ing that the additional revenue will] gree. = | MacDonald, William H. Marmion,) stein, Stuart Yoffe.
v4 make it possible to secure better| The endowed chair is named for | Jim Mell, Allan G. Paterson, Scott} Most of the formal pledge cer
a and more famous dance bands for| Vincent L. Bradford, a Washington | Dr. Fred C, Cole, president of Washington and Lee, addresses the opening | P. Pearce, Leslie C. Rucker, Wil-| monies will oa aie wate grr ae
and Lee benefactor. day convocation held last Wednesday. —Photo by Renshaw ! liam P. Tedards, John W. Wescoat.! and will include a pledge banquet,

the W&L sets.
Page 2
Che KRing-tum Phi
Negative Thinking

(Editor’s note: The following editorial appeared in the
Friday, Sept. 9, 1960 edition of The Washington Post)

“Despite efforts to ignore or to stifle it, the religious issue
remains a major factor in the current political campaign.” So
begins a statement issued by a group of Protestant clergymen
and laymen which styles itself the National Conference of
Citizens for Religious Freedom. These churchmen themselves
do not appear to have taken any part in the efforts to ignore
or stifle the religious issue. On the contrary, the Conference
is representing it as the dominant issue in the campaign.

The argument advanced by the conference amounts to this:
Because the Roman Catholic Church is a political as well as a
religious organization of its communicants, a President of the
United States who professed Catholicism might be subject to
the discipline or pressure of the Church’s hierarchy. This is a
kind of lace curtain anti-Catholicism which is at least more ra-
tional than some of the fundamental fears being circulated by
the Know Nothings.

The error of this argument seems to us to lie in its assump-
tion that John Kennedy is a priest rather than an ordinary
layman, that he is a member of the Church hierarchy commit-
ted to the advancement of its doctrines rather than an American
who happens to worship God in accordance with the Roman
Catholic ritual and who is committed to the advancement of
democratic doctrines. Mr. Kennedy has stated plainly and un-
equivocally that he is not governed by the Church in political
and other affairs. There is no more reason to believe that his
course as a public official would be dictated by the tenents of
the Church hierarchy on, say, birth control or censorship than
there is to impute to a man who worships with the Society of
Friends the tenents of faith on, say, disarmament and defense.

In light of the fact that its leader is the Rev. Norman Vin-
cent Peal, the Conference of Citizens for Religious Freedoms is
offering, we think, a curious example of the power of negative
thinking. It professes to be in favor of the separation of church
and state; but it is doing its utmost to inject the consideration of
religion into politics of the Nation. It professes to be in favor
of religious freedom; but it argues that if a man belongs to a
particular church he is not free to become President of the
United States.

In a country which has said as a part of its fundamental
law that “no religious test shall ever be required as a qualifica-
tion to any office or public trust,” would it not be a good idea
to judge candidates for the Presidency exclusively on their past
political performance, their political programs and their capaci-
ties for leadership?

Reality And Challenge

The spirit of the class of 1964 is a reality. The way in which
they as students of this university meet the demands of a good
education will differ widely from those who have been a part
of Washington and Lee’s past. They are witnesses to the pres-
sure of their times upon the educational complex in general
and W&L in particular.

“The challenge of the sixties” is a slogan rapidly becoming
a cliche. Yet, when related to the life of this college, its context
seems justified. The coming decade is a challenge to Washing-
ton and Lee in every phase of university life. The academic
and social life of this school is undergoing an accelerating trans-
ition to meet this challenge. An administration of modern
ideas and a heritage of cherished ideals has fused into a pro-
gressive policy of high education. The provocative “status quo”
no longer restricts the element of change, and progress is synon-
ymous with Cole.

To you the class of 1964 the challenge is directed. How you
meet it as men of Washington and Lee and as individuals will
play a strong part in determining the future of this university.

 

In Memoriam

Washington and Lee deeply feels the loss of two of its
beloved instructors. Charles Harrington was at home on the ath-
letic field and in the hearts of those who knew him. His con-
tribution to this university and to its ideals was paramount.

Ralph Dufhe provided that extra element of dedication that
became very much a part of the military instruction of the
college. But even more his warm personality and contributions
to the athletic department as chauffeur and supporter leave a
vacuum in our university family.

Che Ring-tum Phi

Friday Edition

Practicing Lawyer To Be
W&L Lecturer On Torts

A practicing attorney in Lexington
has been appointed lecturer-on-torts
for the first semester in the School
of Law at Washington and Lee Uni-
versity.

The appointment of William O.
Roberts, Jr., 37, was announced to-
day by Law School Dean Charles
P. Light.

The new lecturer received his
LL.B. degree in 1958 from Washing-
ton and Lee. He was graduated
magna cum laude. He has been on

The Ring-tum Phi is published Tues-
day and Friday during the college year.
It is printed by the Journalism Labor-
atory Press, ashington and Lee Uni-
versity. The mailing address is Box
899, Lexington, Va,

Entered as second class matter Sep-
tember 20, 1946 at the Post Office, Lex-
ington, Va., under the act of March
3, 1878. . =

National Advertising pagronsminive:
The National Advertisers Service, Inc.,
420 Madison Ave., New York, N.Y

Editor-in-Chief................ Nathan Simpson
Business Managet............. Huntley Biggs
Editorial Board

Managing Editor............. piasorge Honts

   
   
 

 

Assistant Managing Editor................... : . 3 :
ae assosessonnnses ney, Goodwin the physical education staff at Vir-

News Editor.... Andy Nea a ots : :

Sports Editor... ‘Bil Outman | ginia Military Institute since 1946.

Associate Editor. ..Tom_ Rains Roberts, who is a member of the

a ef! eee ee Tom Jordan (Continued on page 4)

Photography Editor..Clarence Renshaw

THE RING-TUM PHI

Six men have been added to the
Washington and Lee University
faculty.

Their appointments were effective
September 1. The additions involve
the department of history, fine arts,
religion, English and military sci-
ence and tactics.

The new men include: Dr. Cecil O,
Smith, Jr., 28, assistant professor of
history; Dr. Cecil B. Jones, 30, as-
sistant professor of fine arts; Lewis
Wendell Hodges, 27, assistant pro-
fessor of religion; William W. Chaf-
fin, 29, instructor in speech; Jack
B. Moore, 27, instructor in English;
and Capt. George W. Miller, 31,
assistant professor of military sci-
ence and tactics.

Dr. Smith, a member of Phi Beta
Kappa, received his M.A. and Ph.D.
degrees in history from Harvard
University in 1956 and 1959, respec-
tively. He received his B.A. degree
from Wofford College in 1955. In
1957-58, Dr. Smith did research for
his doctorate in France under a
French Government Fellowship.
This past year he was an instructor
in humanities at Massachusetts In-
stitute of Technology.

Dr. Jones, who is a native of
Nashville, Tenn., received his B.A.
degree from Vanderbilt University
in 1951. He received his M.A. in the
Theater from Northwestern Uni-
versity in 1952. He was awarded his
Ph.D. in 1951 from the University
of Illinois. Dr. Jones has been a
member of the fine arts faculty at
Lamar State College in Beaumont,
Tex., for the past two years.

A graduate of Duke University in
North Carolina, Hodges comes to
Washington and Lee from a gradu-
ate assistanship there. He has been
working on his Ph.D. at Duke. He is
a 1954 graduate of Millsape College
in Jackson, Miss., where he received
his B.A.

Chaffin, who has his B.A. and
M.A. degrees from the University of
Richmond, is currently a teaching
associate at the University of Indi-
ana. He is working on his Ph.D.
there. He has taught at several pre-
paratory schools in Maryland and
Virginia. He has also been a part
time faculty member at the Univer-
sity of Virginia and Madison Col-
lege.

Moore joins the Washington and
Lee faculty after spending a year as
a graduate assistant at the Univer-
sity of North Carolina, where he
was doing research for his Ph.D. He
taught at the University of Vir-
ginia from 1956 until 1958. He re-
ceived his B.A. from Drew Univer-
sity and his M.A. from Columbia
University.

Capt. Miller is a graduate of the
U.S. Military Academy at West
Point, N. Y. He comes to Washing-
ton and Lee’s Reserve Officer Train-
ing Corps unit from the Officers’
Advanced School at Ft. Benning, Ga.
He is assigned to the Army Infan-
try.

Two Return
Two Washington and Lee Univer-
sity professors have returned to their
teaching posts after two-year leaves
of absence.
Dr. Edward D. Myers, chairman of

Thirteen New Men
Join W&L Faculty

 

 

the university’s department of phil-|
osophy, and Thomas E. Ennis, Jr., |
assistant professor of accounting, |
resumed their teaching duties when |
Washington and Lee began its 212th |
academic year September 14.

Dr. Myers has been in Bonn, Ger- |
many, for the past two years as/
cultural attache for the United States |
Information Agency in the West |
German Federal Republic. He serv-
ed in the American Embassy there.

Prof. Ennis has been studying at)
the University of Michigan under al
Ford Foundation grant. He has been |
working on his Ph.D. degree at!
Michigan. His first year at Michi-
gan, Prof. Ennis studied on a South-
ern Regional Fellowship.

Dr. Myers, who aided world his-
torian Dr. Arnold Toynbee in his
writing of “A Study of History,”
joined the Washington and Lee fac-
ulty in 1949. Prof. Ennis came to
the university in 1955.

Also added to the faculty were
seven men whose appointments were
announced last May in the Finals
Edition of the Ring-tum Phi. These
men are Dr. James S. Patty, 35, as-
sociate professor of Romance lan-
guages; Dr. Cecil D. Eby, Jr, 33,
assistant professor of English; Doug-
las T. Day, 28, instructor in Eng-
lish; James Boatwright, III, 27, in-
structor in English; David B. Dick-
ens, 27, instructor in German; Clar-
ence E. Roberts, 24, instructor in
geology; and H. Gordon Williams,
Jr., 27, instructor in mathematics.

President Cole
Names Two
As Assistants

President Fred C. Cole has named
two members of the Washington and
Lee administrative staff to newly
created positions of assistants to the
President.

James W. Whitehead, 38, has he-
come assistant to the president for
administration, and Frank A. Par-
sons, 32, has become assistant to the
president for institutional research.
Their appointments were effective
Sept. 1.

Whitehead will continue as direc-
tor of university relations, and Par-
sons will continue as director of in-
formation services.

President Cole said Whitehead will
gradually assume administrative re-
sponsibility for business affairs of
the university except those directly
related to the office of the univer-
sity treasurer.

 

Fact-gatherer

Parsons will assist the President in
a program of continuous study and
fact-gathering concerning all phases
of the university’s operation, Pres-
ident Cole said.

Whitehead joined the Washington
and Lee staff in May, 1958, and since
then has been involved primarily in
the direction of the University De-
velopment Program for new science
and journalism facilities.

Parsons, a 1954 graduate of Wash-

(Continued on page 4)

 

day session,

 

A group of freshmen at Freshman Camp are shown here listening to one |
of the many speeches given. Some 318 W&L freshmen attended the three-
—Photo by Renshaw!

|

   

i

 

|
|

 

 

Dr. Winter Royston examines the new IBM machines with J. Baine Fox
who is the university’s new supervisor of statistical records and in charge

of the machines.

—Photo by Renshaw

IBM Machines Making
Record Keeping Easter

Many Washington and Lee stu-
dents were surprised to find during
registration that the familiar pink
schedule slips have been replaced
with a new white and efficient look-
ing slip. The reason for the change
is due to the installation of several
International Business Machines.

Installation of the new machines—
six in all, each performing a dif-
ferent function—was completed
shortly before registration began,
according to J. Baine Fox, 23, the
university’s new supervisor of sta-
tistical records and the man in charge
of the new machines.

The first application of the data
processing equipment came on Sept.
10 when some _ 1,200 Washington
and Lee students began matricula-
tion. The IBM equipment was ex-
pected to simplify certain registra-
tion procedures.

The new machines have been added
to university operations to increase
clerical efficiency and accuracy, ac-
cording to President Fred C. Cole.

Leased from IBM

Leased from International Busi-
ness Machines, the data processing
equipment will be used initially for
student registration and then gradu-
ally applied to other university ad-
ministrative functions.

Registration was chosen first be-
cause it is a repetitive process and

 

a good test for the new equipment.

Information concerning students’
ages, academic classes, grades, course
sections, home addresses, parents’
names and other pertinent facts will
be recorded on specially-prepared
cards for use in the IBM equipment.
The machines will in turn interpret
the information on the cards and
produce the information on forms for
use by faculty, administrative officers
and students.

Once the data processing system
is cleared of “bugs” or operational
problems, plans call for application
of the machines to records now
used by Washington and Lee’s Alum-
ni and development offices. Special
reports may also be prepared by
the machines in the future. Flexibil-
ity of the equipment allows for
such additional work requirements,
Fox says.

Planning Began Last May

Planning for the installation of
the IBM data processing equipment
began last May at the suggestion of
President Cole. A preliminary study
of the university’s records and cler-
ical problems was made and the
present equipment recommended.

Fox, who operated similar equip-
ment for the Shell Oil Company in
New Orleans, came to Washington
and Lee in late June to begin a de-
tailed study of the proposed opera-
tion. He then designed the necessary
cards and forms for the university’s
new equipment.

 

Water Bombs, Inflation, And
Rush Week Greet Irving Gilch

By TOM LUTHY

Irving Gilch hopped off the bus
and trudged quickly up the hill,
bearing his footlocker on his back.
After several near accidents with
some semi’s on Route 60, he found
his way to the scenic, fire-proof
freshman dormitory.

“What a swell place to spend my
first year at college,” thought Irving
as he ducked a speedily descending
water bomb thrown from a _ third
floor window facing the quad.

Irving peeked into his spacious
room on the fourth floor and marv-
eled at the beautiful view of the
world’s longest footbridge which
could be seen from his single win-
dow. The first person he met was
Light Horse Harry, one of the friend-
ly custodians, who immediately
conned him into purchasing a $10
lamp. “I wonder if the Co-Op has
better prices?” mused Irving.

He donned some Ivy League garb
for fear of being assimilated, and
rushed over to the Student Union to
see about signing up for Freshman
Camp. A nice old man met him at
the door and handed him a fresh-
man list for the name game at camp.
Irving winced as the old boy pinned
the name tag on his shirt, for the
pin had severed his proudest posses-
sion, a singleton hair on his chest
which he had been cultivating for
the drop-the-hanky contests at
camp. “The fellows will never like
me now,” lamented poor Irving.

However, Irving soon was feeling

 

better as he and several other frosh

shot the bull over a pitcher of beer
at Doe’s. Irving had noticed a sign
reading “Relief is just a swallow
away” above Doc’s door and wond-
ered if Doc was receiving financial
aid from the Alka-Seltzer Company.
“How silly to imagine such a thing!”
thought Irving when he remembered
that all subsidization on the W&L
campus went with the winning ath-
letic teams. Unwittingly Irving and
his newly acquired buddies made
it to Doe’s door without paying for
their brew. They were swiftly appre-
hended by Frances the Talking
Waitress, who forced them to cough
up the correct amount of change.
“That sure was lucky,” sighed Irving,
“I almost violated the Honor System
without even attending my first
class.”

Somehow Irving struggled through
the first few weeks of school and at
last felt in the swing of things. He
chuckled to himself as he grabbed
two six-packs of Country Club, re-
membering what the brothers had
told him at one of the frat lodges
during Rush Week, “Take two,
they’re small.”

“This certainly is a wonderful
university,” reflected Irving, now on
his sixth lager, “I wonder if they'll
let me go to Freshman Camp again
next year?”

 

NOTICE

The Assimilation Committee will
hold its regular meeting Tuesday

at 7 p.m. in the Student Union
: ide...

 

 

 

 

 

paca ale sonenay Peuwe 29 961 -ate>

 

 

RABIES SHOT

d=

Q SH

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

"on

asian

 

e
 

id

 

THE RING-TUM PHI

Page 3

 

W&L Tennis Tournament To Begin Next Weekend

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Cc ach Washburn pressed the hope that all men i can of balls for his next match. that player shall be considered as| will be considered as having de-| court priority except as they con-
° had not received a letter or anum-| (3) Each match must be played| having defaulted. Should both play-| faulted . flict with the intramural tennis
To Head Contest eral and who plan to try out for the| by the specified date posted. Should| ers fail to report and the match not} (4) All matches will be the best| schedule. (Note: Two courts are
varsity squad will participate. The| one player fail to report for the| be posted by 7 p.m. of the final} two out of three sets. available even during the intramur-
The University Fall Tennis Tour-| freshman are especially urged to en-| match at a previously agreed time,| date for that match, the entire match} (5) Tournament matches will have | al schedule.)
nament will get underway right ter this contest. 1 ie ce yf en ey nny ames RN TTT
away according to tennis coach, im This year Thomas Ltd. will award {fp \
Washburn. Play is expected to be-| 4 trophy to the winner. Rocky Gaut,
gin Friday, September 23, and Var-| jact year’s winner, was a graduating
sity Captain, Billy McWilliams, ex-| .onior, leaving a wide open scramble
for a winner and the trophy.
Offer Special Price Eligibility =
On VMI Games Here All W&L students of both Aca-
demic and Law schools who have
The VMI Athletic Department has] not received either a Varsity letter
offered to W&L faculty and stu-|or freshman numeral are eligible,
dents a special offer of $1.50 for] and if interested in playing in the
each ticket to games that are played| tournament should cut out the en- =
on W&L’s Wilson Field. The first] try blank below, complete the form S G od
game is on October 1 with the Uni-| and turn it in to the Alumni Office, i? porting O S
versity of Richmond, and the other| bottom floor of Washington Hall. [|
will be on November 5 against Le-| Telephone entries can be made by
high. Anyone interested in securing | calling HO 3-3414. Deadline for en- , G l h
tickets for these games must get| tries is 4 p.m. Wednesday, Septem- ym C ot es
them at the VMI Athletic Office by| ber 21st.
4 p.m. Thursday during the week of] Drawings will be posted by noon
the games. Tickets at this price will September 22 on the gymnasium
not be sold at the gate. bulletin board and play may begin
immediately. Complete Camera Dept.
Golf Deadline Sept. 21 (1) Each Player is responsible for
All students interested in trying contacting his opponent to arrange
out for the W&L golf team should| to Play the match.
check with coach Cy Twombly by| (2) Each player will purchase one G ft
Wednesday, Sept. 21. This includes| can of tennis balls, with the winner 1its
freshmen and upperclassmen. of the match retaining the unused
SNORT SE.ANE Toys—Novelties
s—Novel
1960 W&L FALL TENNIS TOURNAMENT 7
(Please Print)
FRRIG!  asniiiisesisrnncnct sae ni isenniesutieneiauarineensitias .
es ee ae College Gifts
(Freshman) (Sophomore) (Junior) (Senior) (Law)
Tay ih PONNNED) ce iin: tae eee as
Dorm Room No. Phone
Mail or bring this entry blank to W. C. Washburn, Alumni Office, Skii >
Washington fal ung Equipment
All entries must be in by 4 p.m., Wednesday, Sept. 21st.
Sportswear
Best in the book for ~«
air travel...
=
Welcome freshmen—come in and open your charge account
eget ne noth .
serves the Top of the South wit W | b k Id d d
fast frequent flights . . . offers connecting e come ac 0 stu ents come in an use yours
_._ Service to all parts of the world. Call Piedmont .
Airlines or your Travel Agent for reservations, information.
14 W. Washington Street
SOUTHERN PINES
: L
... Along the Route of the Pacemakers (\S J
© 00000000000000000 00000000 0000000000000000000000 000000000 lee e CeCe CeCe eee eC OOOO CLO O OOOO OOOO COCO OOOO OCLC COCO COCO OOOCCS 0000000080000 0000000C00 00S
$5.0990000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000000900000000000000000000000000000000 000000000000 0000 00 EONS OOOO EONOONOSNSOOOO00R8
ae ee
oe Men’s Suits and Jackets thoughtfully tailored for the most exciting 23
ee : ; ‘ ee
ee fit in carefully selected imported fabrics and patterns ee
$8 $8
ee SWEATERS Hopsacks—T weeds—W hipcords—Flannels—Corduroys TOPCOATS ee
ee . ee
heviots—Shetlands
38 “os ani C WOOL SLACKS ee
te Ab d taste wl ! oe
ee TWEED CAPS oast to your good taste when you wear one: REPP TIES 38
$3 Th 3
ee WOOL SOCKS é VESTED SUITS oe
$3 WV $5
ee KHAKIS op BAY RUM ee
a ee
oe FELT HATS ll ad , OXFORD SHIRTS ee
se We cordially invite you to stop in to select your clothing and shoes where you +4
oe ; ‘ ‘ as
3 WALLETS will find the same friendly atmosphere that prevails on the campus of W&L RAINCOATS oe
se
ee :
ee UMBRELLAS Also, Complete Formal Wear and Accessories W&L BUTTONS se
ee
ee ee
36 UNIVERSITY CREST JOCKEY UNDERWEAR 33
$3 ENGLISH CORDOVANS y im ILLOV 33
S2 CORDOVAN 4 Gh i) f PULLOVER SPORTSHIRTS +4
ee 4 UOT LIGA | ee
a ee
ee e Rae) hse | ee
ee ee
ae ee
ee ee
oe se
eocecesescoccsoossessosee
sSossssssesssssssssssseeeessssesseesssssssssesssssssssssssessssssssccessssssssessccssssss sessssessccscsessssssscesssssssccessessssccccceseecscccccecs
Page 4

University Exhibiting
Art Collection Loaned
By Guggenheim Museum

A group of paintings on loan from
the Solomon R. Guggenheim Mu-
seum in New York will be placed on
display this week in Washington
and Lee University’s year-old dining
hall.

The paintings are scheduled to
hang for six months, according to
Dr. Marion Junkin, chairman of the
university’s department of fine arts.

With Prints

The display of the Guggenheim
collection will coincide with the
exhibition of a group of Italian mod-
ern prints in the duPont Gallery on
the Washington and Lee campus.

Both displays were ready in time
for the beginning of Washington and
Lee’s 212th academic year this

 

Notices

There will be a meeting at 8
p.m. Monday, Sept. 19, for all
freshmen who are interested in
working on the staff of the Ring-
tum Phi.

All students who have not yet
picked up their 1960 Calyx may do
so on Tuesday Sept. 20, from 2-5
p.m. in the basement of the student
union.

There will be a meeting of all up-
perclassmen who are members of
the business and editorial staffs of
the Calyx on Tuesday, Sept. 20 at
5 p.m. in the Student Union.

There will be a reception for all
students interested in working with
the Troubadour Theatre this year, on
Wednesday, Sept. 21, at 7:30 p.m.,
in the theatre.

 

Lecturer On Torts

(Continued from page 2)
Virginia Bar Association, received
his B. A. degree from Springfield
College. He is a native of Champlain,
N.Y.

During World War II Roberts serv-

 

week. The Guggenheim collection,
for which the university has been
waiting for more than two years,
will hang in the east parlor of the
Letitia Pate Evans dining hall.

The New York display will in-
clude the painting of such people as
Wassily Kandinsky, Paul Klee, Al-
bert Gleizes, Harry Bertoia and
others.

One of 15

Washington and Lee’s extended
loan from the Guggenheim is one
of 15 to American colleges and uni-
versities. These exhibits are being
sent out by the Solomon R. Guggen-
heim Museum as a part of a pro-
gram of extended loans to areas
where good examples of contempor-
ary arts by pioneering artists of the
twentieth century are not readily
available to the public.

Displays were begun in the Evans
dining hall last year in an effort
to acquaint the whole student body
with art, and the displays are open
to the public.

 

THE RING-TUM PHI

Rowe Is Assistant
(Continued from page 2)

ington and Lee, became director of
the university’s information serv-
ices in September, 1954. Before join-
ing the staff at Washington and Lee,
Parsons was employed by the Clifton
Forge Daily Review as editor fol-
lowing his graduation.

Rowe Named

President Cole also named A.
Prescott Rowe to the position of
Assistant Director of Information
Services this summer. His appoint-
ment was effective immediately.

A June graduate of Washington
and Lee, Rowe will assist Frank A.
Parsons, Director of Information
Services, in university relations.

Rowe, 22, a native of Fredericks-
burg, Va., is a former employee of
the Fredericksburg Free-Lance Star
where he was a news reporter. While
a student at Washington and Lee, he
served as editor of the Ring-tum
Phi, and as a member of the Publi-
cations Board. He was also a Fresh-
man Dormitory Counselor and held
a Robert E. Lee Scholarship. He
holds a Bachelor of Arts degree in
Journalism.

Rowe is also a member of Omicron
Delta Kappa, a national honorary
leadership fraternity which was
founded at Washington and Lee.

 

she he he he ale Mele le he he he he che the te the he a hehe he che th

 

ts ate ite ate ate he Mette tere
7eererrerre Fe

 

Se Be Be Be Be Se Ste Be Be Se St, Ste Se St We Se Se Be Be Be Ge Be We Be Be Se He Be Be Me te he he she she he ha a he ie Ma Be Be Ba
OE EE EE EE EE SS Se SS eS Se Se ee ee ee ee Se Se eS

she teats
Pee ee OO Oe CT eC eee Tee Oe

SHIRTS DONE
THE WAY YOU LIKE THEM

Fine Cleaning

and Pressing
ey
Your Campus Neighbors
*k

University Cleaners

CHARGE ACCOUNTS INVITED

he ate she the she ae ale he ale ale he ae he he ae he he ae he he Ne he Ba he Ma he Be Ma Me Be Ba Ba Ba te Be Ba te te te Bate te te the te ite
LL EE ES EE SE Se Se ee eS ee

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

DIXON'S

Esso Service Center

 

ROUTE 60 EAST IN LEXINGTON
Across from the new White Top Restaurant

HO 3-4214

 

WELCOME BACK STUDENTS

+

 

 

Wash
Grease

Lube
Road Service

Charge Accounts Welcome

 

 

 

 

 

he the he she he he he ale te he he he he ha he ace
7

ate te he tee
Oe ee ee ee errr

he ste she ahs ate he he he te he he he he he he a le he he he te te Be ee
eee

ee eee eee

 

 

Announcing:

=

5

UOUUUUUVOONUOAVEOUUUEOASUEEUAEUAUEAAOEEEAUUAUEAAAN AAA

Chomas, Lt.

(Successor to Earl N. Levitt, Lexington)

Fine Clothing, Shoes, Formal Wear
Bass Weejuns, Baracuta Rainwear

Charge Accounts Welcome

TOM BAKER, Keeper of the Tweeds
Class ’55

UUVAUUVUGUOUUOAUNUOGUOOGUOGUEOUGEUGUOAAE AYE

Te

I
TUESDAY
Edition

Che Ring-tum Ph

Washington and Lee Semi-Weekly Newspaper

&

TUESDAY
Edition

 

Volume LXI

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA, SEPTEMBER 20, 1960

Number 2

 

Dean Pusey

Announces
Wilson Gifts

Attention was called today by
Dr. W. W. Pusey, Dean of the Col-
lege, to the Woodrow Wilson Na-
tional Fellowships for 1961-62,
for which academically outstanding
Washington and Lee seniors can be
nominated this fall.

As an encouragement to promising
young men and women to consider
careers in college teaching, the Foun-
dation each year fully supports a
thousand carefully selected fellows
in their first year of graduate work.

The Foundation primarily se-
lects candidates in the humanities
and social sciences, but in excep-
tional cases, when a clear prefer-
ence for a teaching career is dem-
onstrated, candidates for the na-
tural sciences are also considered.
The fellow receives fifteen hun-
dred dollars for the year’s study,
plus dependency allowances, while
the Foundation also pays tuition
and fees.

All seniors who are interested in
considering a career in college teach-
ing are urged to discuss the fellow-
ships at their earliest convenience
with their major professors and with
Dean Pusey, the Campus Represen-
tative for the Woodrow Wilson Fel-
lowships. Dr. Pusey stated that
13 Washington and Lee men have
received Wilson Fellowships in past
years, including four seniors last
June. Dr. Pusey stressed not only
the generous financial support which
the fellowships afford but also their
great prestige value. Besides the
recipients of the awards, he added,
many candidates receive honorable
mentions, which frequently lead to
financial aid from other sources.

Dr. Roger P. McCutcheon, South-
ern National Representative of the
Foundation will be visiting President
Cole on Tuesday and Wednesday
of this week and will discuss the
fellowships with members of the
Washington and Lee Committee on
Graduate Fellowships.

Rhodes Scholars
To Be Selected

Dr. Fitzgerald Flournoy announc-
ed today that all Rhodes Scholar-
ship applicants must see him not
later than Saturday, Sept. 24. This
is necessary, according to Dr. Flour-
noy, so that all applicants may be
interviewed by the committee by the
end of the month, since the com-
mittee has to report to the faculty at
its meeting on the third of October.

 

To be eligible, a candidate must
be male and unmarried, a citizen
of the United States and have
been in residence for at least five
years. All applicants must be be-
tween the ages of 18 and 24. Schol-
ars who are elected in December
of 1969, will enter Oxford in Oc-
tober of 1961. A candidate is not
required to be a senior at the col-
lege or university that he is at-
tending, but Dr. Flournoy com-
mented that this grade-level edu-
cation would give him a much
better opportunity to win a schol-
arship.

The Committees of Selection for
Rhodes Scholarships will give great
regard to the qualifications set down
by Cecil Rhodes in the section of
the will in which he defined the
type of Scholar that he desired:

“(a) Literary and scholastic abil-
ity and attainments.

“(b) Qualities of manhood, truth-
fulness, courage, devotion to duty,
sympathy for and protection of the
weak, kindliness, unselfishness, and
fellowship.

“(e) Exhibition of moral force of
character and of instincts to lead and
to take an interest in his fellows.

“(d) Physical vigor, as shown by
fondness for and success in sports.”

The most important single quality
is the special distinction, whether
in intellect or in character, that sets
the Rhodes Scholar apart from his
fellows. He need not be a onesided
man, thus definite distinction of in-
tellect should be founded on sound
character, and definite distinction of
character should be based on sound
intellect.

To make application, students must
first be judged candidates by the
Washington and Lee Faculty Com-
mittee.

| versities.

 

 

Front: Cadet Col. Nathan Simpson, BG Cmdr. Second Row: L, Lt. Col. Pete Straub, B. G. Exec. Officer; r., Lt.
Col. John Towler, Deputy BG Commander. Third Row: 1. to r., M/Sgt. John Ramer, Operations Sgt.; Major Ed

Ladd, Battle Group S-4; Major Jim Vann, BG S-3; Major Harvey Allen, Jr., BG S-2.

—Photo by Young

Battle Group Replaces Regiment,
Simpson Named ROTC Colonel

Monday was the first full
classroom and on the drill field,

ington and Lee ROTC.

day of activities, both in the}

for the newly organized Wash-

The whole corps of cadets has been organized into a Battle
Group, replacing the old regiment and battalions. Nathan

 

Simpson, KA senior from Tampa,*

Fla., is the Battle Group Commander,
and will hold the rank of Cadet
Colonel.

Other members of the Battle
Group Staff are: Cadet Lt. Cols.
John Towler, DTD senior from Hali-
fax, Va., Deputy Battle Group Com-
mander; and Pete Straub, SN Senior
from Webster Groves, Mo., Battle
Group Executive Officer.

The four remaining staff officers,
holding the rank of Cadet Major
are: Jack Soper, senior from Kan-
sas City, Mo., as Battle Group S-1,
Harvey Allen, Jr., KS senior from
Fort Worth, Texas as Battle Group
S-2, Jim Vann, PKPsi senior from
Birmingham, Ala., as Battle Group
S-3, and Ed Ladd, BTPi senior
from Mobile, Ala., as Battle Group
S-4,

Cadet Company Commander, hold-
ing the rank of Cadet Captain are:
Charles W. Day, Co. A, Elwin Law,
Co. B, Bob Street, Co. C, Walt
Shugart, Co. D, Clayton Bryan, Co.

Dr. E. D. Myets
Returns to W&L

Dr. E. D. Myers, head of the
Philosophy department at Wash-
ington and Lee, has returned here
after serving two years as cultural
attache to the American Embassy
at Bonn, Germany. During his two
years in Germany, Dr. Myers gave
about 75 lectures to universities and
educational groups. He also worked
very hard to encourage the estab-
lishment of chairs in American liter-
ature at German colleges and uni-

 

Dr. Myers says that his work
with the United States Informa-
tion Agency in Germany has made
him very much aware of the im-
portance of this government ag-
ency and of the number of people
who fail to realize how vital the
USIA is to our foreign policy.
According to Dr. Myers a recent
survey in Germany has shown that
the greater understanding an in-
dividual has of American litera-
ture and history, the stronger his
approval will be of American for-
eign policy.

Before leaving for Germany, Dr.
Myers finished his book, Education
in the Perspective of History, which
was featured in the Sept. 17 issue
of the “Saturday Review.” The pur-
pose of the book is, in Dr. Myers
words, “to consider education in a
broad perspective (so) that many |
problems may more clearly be an-|
alyzed and solutions thereto more |
easily found...” The book contains
a summary chapter by Arnold Toyn- |
bee on the world-wide impact of
education. Dr. Myers and Mr. Toyn- |
bee worked together on Vol. XI of |
Toynbee’s Study of History.

 

E, and Don Partington, Band Com-
pany.

Company Executive Officers, hold-
ing the rank of First Lieutenant are:

(Continued on page 4)

Glee Club Picks
Men For 1960

At auditions held Thursday and
Friday of last week the W&L Glee
Club accepted twenty-eight of the
candidates who tried out. Among
these were Warren P. Hopkins, who
will take over the duties of pianist.
Those who will be singing in the
forthcoming year are:

John W. Baker, Jr.; Richard I.
H. Belser; Philip S. E. Booth; Ar-
thur E. Broadus; William H. Chap-
lin; Stephen J. Colvin; Jere D. Cra-
vens; William L. Cromley; John M.
Dean, Jr.; John M. Dixon; Paul J.
Farley; George M. Freeman, Jr.;
Mark W. Gee; Winston Ivey; Fred
W. McKinnon.

James W. Mell; William B. Petty;
Richard T. Saegar; Dwight S. Shu-
mate; James C. Smith, Jr.; Spencer
R. Stouffer; William P. Tedards, Jr.;
James M. Wearn; Eric H. Wilson;
Sherwood W. Wise, Jr.; John T.
Winebrenner; E. Randolph Wootton,
Jr.

The Glee Club in 1960-61 will be
under the direction of Mr. Robert
Stewart as in the past. Its presi-
dent is Don Pardington. This fall
the Glee Club will join with the
Sullins College Choir in Bristol,
and in the spring they will sing a
concert with Westhampton College,
the girls division of the University
of Richmond.

 

 

 

Class Of 1964
Sets New Mark

This year’s freshman class at
Washington and Lee enrolls with
the distinction of having the highest
college board average of any class
yet to enter. The average student in
this class enters with a verbal score
of 548, and with a mathematical score
of 577. In 1959, the average scores
were 532 for the verbal test, and
563 on the math test. The increase
in verbal aptitude this year repre-
sents the greatest increase yet shown.
These scores are regarded as a great
standard of a student’s ability to
measure up to the college academic
work. Dean Gilliam places as im-
portant a stress on these as on the
past record of the students.

This year, 55 per cent of the
students matriculating come from
public high schools; this being a
reversal of last year’s trend, when
the same percentage came from
private schools. Seven freshmen
are contributed by each of three
private schools; Darlington School
and Westminister School, both in
Georgia; and St. Christopher’s in
Richmond. The public school send-
ing the greatest number of students
was the Lexington High School,
with six entrants.

Of significance to those persons in-
terested in how Washington and Lee)

compares with the eastern schools
is the survey that Time magazine
published in the May issue of their
magazine. Here, the so-called “Ivy
League” schools were listed as hav-
ing accepted a total of 13,640 fresh-
men, they had 8,545 confirmations, a
figure of 63 per cent. This year,
Washington and Lee had 1,264 appli-
cations, and accepted 44 per cent or
656 students. Of this number, there
were 325 entrants, 58 per cent.

 

 

Calyx Picture Schedule

Wednesday, Sept. 21
Thursday, Sept. 22..........

 

ee, ee. inns
Be Ny Ws tes

Tuesday, Sept. 27

 
 

 

Weodkmenday, Bet, BG. ..ccccccccsccsesssovssscese
TRHPEOY, BOI, FE ok og cccrternniene
Lambda Chi Alpha, Phi Epsilon Pi

Tuesday, Oct. 4

 

ee Pi Kappa Alpha, Sigma Nu
Pi Kappa Phi; Sigma Alpha Epsilon

Phi Gamma Delta, Sigma Phi Epsilon
aa Kappa Alpha, Delta Tau Delta

Sigma Chi, Phi Kappa Sigma
Phi Delta Theta, Beta Theta Pi

Zeta Beta Tau, Phi Kappa Psi

Kappa Sigma, Delta Upsilon

The IFC picture will be taken at the regular Monday night meet-
ing on Sept 26. The fraternity pictures will be taken at lunch time
on the designated days. The house listed first will have its picture
taken at 1:10, and the house listed second will have its picture taken

at 1:35.

The Calyx reminds house presidents that the deadline for write-
ups accompanying the fraternity pictures is Oct. 15 Write-ups should
include a list of house officers and house mother, including the full
name. Also mention of outstanding brothers on campus, elected of-
ficers, position held, special recognition received, athletic excellence
attained, type of social activities carried on, and mention of house

mother is desired.

Also the Calyx will, as in the past, carry a picture of the best
Homecoming Dectoration, which last year was won by Delta Tau

Delta.

 

Goodwyn Elected

‘President of ODK

Washington and Lee Will Be Host To 1964

| National Convention of Leadership Fraternity
reer =

| By BOB BRIDEWELL

| Warren Goodwyn, senior law stu-
|dent from Montgomery, Ala., has
been named President of the Alpha
| Chapter of Omicron Delta Kappa,
|a national honorary leadership fra-
ternity. Also chosen as officers for
the 1960-61 session were Billy Mc
| Williams, Vice-President, and Henry
| Harrell, Secretary.

| As an undergraduate, Goodwyn
| was President of the SAE House, a
| battalion commander in the ROTC,
and a Distinguished Military Stu-
dent. He has served on the Execu-
tive Committee for three years, and
is presently on the law school board
of governors. Last year he served
on the Steering Committee of the
1960 Mock Democratic Convention.

Billy McWilliams, the new ODK
Vice-President, is a Phi Delta
Theta senior from Selma, Ala. He
has served for two years on the}
Executive Committee, and is cur-
rently secretary of the student body.
McWilliams was President of the
1960 Spring Dance Set, and co-presi-
dent of the Cotllion Club. He is a
varsity letterman on the tennis team.

The secretarial duties of ODK have
been given to Henry Harrell, Sigma
Chi senior from Sabot, Va. Harrell
is the Vice-President of the Stu-
dent Body, and an EC committee-
man. He is a member of the W&L
Dance Board, SWMSFC, and a co-
president of the Cotillion Club. Har-
rell was President of 1959 Openings
Dances. The new ODK secretary is
an Honor Roll and Dean’s List stu-
dent and was chosen by the IFC as
the Outstanding Freshman in 1958.

These three officers assume the
leadership of the nation’s first circle
of Omicron Delta Kappa, for it was
on the W&L compus in December,
1914 that the ODK was founded.

Among the fifteen charter mem-
bers of the Alpha Chapter is Rupert |

 

 

Bill Roberts

 

Roberts Is Head’
Of Tuesday Staff

Bill Roberts, a junior SAE from |
| Williamsburg, Va., has been appoint-
ed managing editor of the Tuesday
edition of the Ring-tum Phi. Rob- |
erts has been a reporter for the |
paper for the past two years. In|
addition to his work on the paper,
Roberts has maintained a 2.5 grade
point ratio; he has lettered for two|
years as an end on the varsity foot- |
ball team, and has done some work
on the Shenandoah. He is a member

|
of the Phi Eta Sigma Freshman |
Honorary Society.
Steve Galef, ZBT junior, from |

White Plains, N. Y., is the assistant
managing editor of the Tuesday
paper. Steve has maintained a quite
creditable record here at Washing-
ton and Lee. Last year, he w:
lected as vice-president of the dance

s se
iS se-

board and did excellent work for
the school paper.
Other members of the staff are

Bob Bridewell, SAE sophomore as

 

news editor; Harvey Allen, Kappa

Sig senior, as feature editor: Steve
Guild, Kappa Sig sophomore, as

| sports editor; Bill Smith, Lanny
Butler and Ronnie King as associate

| editors; Roger Paine and Hunter

| Manson, Phi Gam sophomores, as|

| copy editors and Bill Young, a D.U | pha,
sophomore, as photography editor

Nelson Latture, who is at present a
member of the W&L faculty.

Since its inception in 1914, ODK
has grown until it now includes
members from ninety colleges and
universities. The W&L chapter alone
has initiated over 820 men into the
Alpha Circle in its forty-five years
of activity.

The founders of ODK formed the
fraternity “to recognize men who
have attained a high standard of
efficiency in collegiate activities and
to inspire others to strive for con-
spicuous attainments.”

The five main qualifications for
membership are exemplary char-
acter, responsible leadership and dis-
criminatory service in campus life,
superior scholarship, genuine fel-
lowship and consecration to demo-
cratic ideals. ODK membership rec-
ognizes achievements in scholarship,
athletics, student government, so-
cial and religious affairs, publica-
tions, and the fine arts.

The current Alpha Circle of ODK
consists of Goodwyn, McWilliams,
Harrel, Kent Frazier and Tim Ire-
land as students in addition to num-
erous faculty and alumni members.
Dean Farrar is the faculty advisor
to ODK and Mr. Latture holds the
office of faculty secretary.

Mr. Latture commented that the
original founders of ODK on this
campus have been astonished at the
reception the organization had re-
ceived and the number of colleges
and universities that have petitioned
for chapters.

Fulbright Offers
900 Scholarships

Dr. Charles Turner, Washington
and Lee representative of the Ful-
bright Foundation, has announced
the availability of nine-hundred
scholarships to graduating seniors
of American colleges and universi-
ties for study abroad.

 

These grants enable qualified
students to continue their educa-
tion while living in a foreign land.
More than 31 countries are partici-
pating in the 1960-1961 Fulbright
program, with Germany, England
and France offering the greatest
number of scholarships. All of the
nine-hundred grants include a
nine month term of study at a
foreign university in the student’s
chosen field.

In order to be eligible for con-
sideration as a Fulbright Scholar,
the graduating senior must have a
cumulative grade average of B or
better. He must also have a general
knowledge of a foreign language. A
good statement of purpose and a
definite project while studying
abroad are both required of the
applicant. Letters of recommendation
should be submitted to the com-
mittee.

Dr.

seniors

Turner urged all qualified
to see him in his office
duPont 1, as soon as possible, as the
deadline for applications is Octo-
ber 31.

“Tam very anxious to see Wash-
ington and Lee continue its fine
record of Fulbright scholars. Last
year we had two W&L winners,
and in past years we have had as
many as six,”

Dining Schedule

The IFC confirmed the arrange-

| ment for pledges eating at their re-

spective fraternity houses. As in
the past, the freshmen will be al-
| lowed one meal a week at their fra-
ternity.

The schedule is as follows: Mon-

day—Sigma Nu, Phi Kappa Sigma,

and Zeta Beta Tau; Tuesday—Phi
Gamma Delta, Beta Theta Pi, Phi
Delta Theta, and Pi Kappa Phi;
Wednesday—Kappa Alpha, Kappa
Sigma, Sigma Phi Epsilon, and Phi
Epsilon Pi
On Thursday pledges will eat at
Sigma Alpha Epsilon, Phi Kappa
Psi, and Delta Upsilon; and Friday
Delta Tau Delta, Lambda Chi Al-
Sigma Chi, and Pi Kappa

' Alpha.
Page 2

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

Che Ring-tum Phi
Harken

The Freshman is a strange animal. He appears at Wash-
ington and Lee full of hopes, fears, enthusiasms and doubts
which may or may not be well grounded. The freshman at
W&L is confronted first by orientation exercises of Freshman
Camp, then by the hectic pace of Rush Week, during which
he not only determines his position in many of his classes
through his performance on a number of placement tests, but
also makes one of the most important decisions of his college life
when he chooses those boys with whom he will be living, social-
izing and studying for the next four years.

During the rush of this two-week period, the freshman is
introduced to and indoctrinated with the traditions of the
school. With the advent of the new administration, the new
freshman commons, and “‘the challenge of the sixties,” the
curriculum, the fraternity system and even the daily routine of
the university have undergone various changes. We only hope
that the traditional spirit and the reputation of Washington and
Lee as a school for gentlemen will remain unchanged.

The duty of upholding the reputation and tradition of
the school falls upon the faculty, the student body, the admin-
istration, and more especially upon the Class of 1964. To the
frustrated and seemingly hard pressed freshman, the details
of W&L tradition may seem trivial. The wearing of the beanies
and conventional dress, the speaking tradition and the tradi-
tion which prohibits freshmen from walking on the grass are
all a part of Washington and Lee. They are part of our heritage.

Unfortunately for the school, these traditions have to be
enforced as rules. One member of the freshman class has al-
ready gone on record as one of the few who feel that the school
traditions are “mickey mouse.’ We feel that such a man has
no place in this institution. We trust that he is the exception to
the rule. We are sure that his opinions will change through his
association with his classmates and the rest of the student body.
We plead with the class of 1964 to respect the heritage of its
university and make the very unpleasant job of the Assimilation
Committee more pleasant. We are proud of the traditions of our
school. We expect the class of 1964 to uphold them and to
carry them on.

 

Injustice to Athletes?

In the past there have been many criticisms of the Physical
Education Department here at Washington and Lee. We feel
that most of these have been unfair. They have been made by
students who have had some personal grudge against some
member of the PE staff. We realize that these men have certain
duties and obligations which their jobs require them to fulfill,
and feel that the students should do as much as possible to co-
operate with them.

We also feel that the policy of the PE department and the
University concerning freshman and sophomore athletes who
are injured while representing the school on freshman or var-
sity teams is unfair. Suppose, for example, that a sophomore
athlete contracted a serious knee injury during a mid-season
baseball game. In this case, we will assume that the injury is
serious enough to prevent the boy from further participation
in the sport or any physical education class. The boy would
then be given a grade of I for the semester and required to take
the PE course over again his junior year.

We realize that the boy is getting “a break” in that he is not
given an F for the semester and that his cuts are not taken away
for the next semester. We understand too that the coaches and
members of the PE staff are required by rule of the university
to give the boy the grade of I. We do not question the men who
give the grade. We question the rule which requires the grade.

Why should a student who has had the initiative to par-
ticipate in a sport under our system of nonsubsidization be in
effect penalized for an injury which he would not have received
had he remained with his less ambitious and spirited brethren
within the relatively safe and snug confines of Doremus Gym?

 

Webster Unabridged

Class Of 1964 Alerted; Debates
Of Interest To Them Forthcoming

anti-hazing regulations be drawn up,

By ED WEBSTER
it is probable that the rules will be

Raven Rants

Lexington Is Praised

By GERRY OULLETTE
and WYNN KINTZ

Our first column of the year is |
dedicated to the newcomers in the)
Lexington area. From our past ex-
perience, both fortunate and unfor-
tunate, we shall strive to outline
some of the attractions found in
the “Shrine of the South.”

First things first. Permit us to
point out an outstanding feature of
Lexington: its geographical location.
The site of the town is within one
hour’s drive from three fine young
ladies’ schools. This feature, along
with the great number of student
cars on campus, makes a weekend
extremely bearable after the grind
of six school days. An added incen-
tive derives also from the geograph-
ical situation. The three girls’ schools
are mutually non-fraternizing, con-
sequently the W&L student with wit
and charm can easily be the wielder
of three interesting strings simul-
taneously.

We return to our muttons. Lex-
ington boasts several distinguish-
ed landmarks: Lee Chapel, Stone-
wall Jackson’s Home, the Univer-
sity, and the Institute for the
militarily minded. In addition there
are churches of practically every
major denomination (and others)
found here, and Main Street is
dotted with filling stations and
banks. Let us not omit a relatively
new landmark, the Slater System.

 

All academically minded benefit!
from the excellent atmosphere of this |
town. There lies at the heart of Lex-|
ington a love for trees, grass, flowers,
and silence. Occasionally, however,
some clean-cut American college |
fun is permitted, and early Sunday
morning is spent by many Lexing-
ton residents cleaning the debris.

Let us mention Lexington’s pets.
Here the dogs are taught to under-
stand and respect the students’ cur-
ricula and study habits. Indeed,
Lexingtonians can well be proud of
their educated pets. May we sug-
gest that more publicity be given

| “light”

 

this point of interest.

ties. Both theatre houses strive to

accommodate the students with the|

latest from Hollywood. Drug stores
and others carry a complete line of
reading material, catering
to the fancy of all. There are several
grills which amiably serve their cus-
tomers without making much-to-do
about identification. And if one is
not yet content, there is always that
place across from the State Theatre;
but a word of warning: the gentle-
man in the little green coat prompt-
ly locks the doors at 6 p.m.

Lexington has still one attrac-
tion that we find most pleasant:
its delightful climate. Of course,
there are winters when it snows,
and it can rain for a week without
stopping, but who among us will
feel bitter remembering the fine
weather during the other seven
months?

Now that we have given you some
insight into future expectations, we
welcome you to the Lexington met-
ropolitan area, and wish you a happy
stay.

The final whistle has once again
sounded, and the excitment and con-
fusion of another Rush Week has
ended. Fortunate indeed are those
men chosen by a fraternal order to
become one of the “brothers.” Mem-
bership in a fraternity has always
been a part of campus life, and par-
ticularly here at Washington and
Lee. We congratulate the newly

pledged members and wish them|

continued success.

To those men not making a fra-
ternity may we address the following
remarks. True you were not selected
this Rush Week to become a fra-
ternity member, but what really have
you lost? Is there any reason to
feel strange or left out? Absolutely
not...In missing a fraternity bid,
you have gained the right to form
your own opinions, without internal
pressures, also you have gained the
opportunity to extend your acquain-
tances beyond a confined group, and,
if tradition holds true, you are one
step ahead towards becoming a more

Local entertainment provides the! mature person and a true Washing-
students with top recreational facili- | ton and Lee gentleman.

 

Winning Teams Make Demands
That Carry Beyond Wilson Field

By BILL ROBERTS

Washington and Lee football has
changed quite a bit in three years.
There are the obvious changes—we
are winning more games, we have
more men on the squad, more people
attending games, more prestige for
football players, the whole list of
changes which attest that our non-
subsidized program does_ indeed
“work.” Another change has taken
place, one not mentioned in the
newspaper writeups and one only
hinted at in the published remarks of
coaches and administration. The
Washington and Lee program is fin-
ally demanding the quality which
makes a winning football team—
a near-total commitment to football
from the team members.

By a near-total commitment to
football, I of course don’t mean
that the W&L football team is a
group of animals whose sole aim
and desire in life is to play foot-
ball. But I do mean that if it
comes to a point where football's
interest will be seriously pre-
judiced by studies, by the fra-
ternity, by dating, or by any of
the other multitude of facets of
Washington and Lee life, that foot-
ball will always win out.

This change is a subtle but not
imperceptible one. It may have be-
come more obvious this week when
football players left fraternity ball
sessions earlier, when they showed
generally less zeal than their broth-
ers in preparing for what was for
many houses a crucial rush week.
And the brothers of the ball players

This column, the first in a rather
unpromising series, is written as a
welcome—or perhaps a warning—to
the current crop of beanie-wearers.

Since the freshmen won't want to
miss a single event of the action-
packed year ahead, we decided to
point out in advance a few of the
things that will happen. The diligent
freshmen should endeavor to mem-
orize these events now, as there will
be very little mention of them when
they occur.

According to a reputable source
(a wrinkled gypsy woman who in-
terprets flights of starlings around
Old George), we may look for
such things as these:

First, a set of rules will be brought
before the Interfraternity Council
to alleviate some of the time-honored
practices of Hell Week. The mere
fact that these rules are necessary
is a sorry reflection on our maturity.

Since the fraternity representa-
tives last spring specified that these

 

passed with little modification. The
greater difficulty will come in per-
suading individual fraternities, and
their individual members, to abide by
these rules four months from now.

When IFC president Dave Lef-
kowitz told the freshmen, “Hell
Week is a thing of the past,” he
was reflecting several months of
determined work by some concern-
ed fraternity men, His statement
suggests that, this year, the IFC

(Continued on page 4)

showed more willingness to make this
concession in the hopes of a strong
General showing on the gridiron.
The Washington and Lee com-|}
munity as a whole has made this!
vital change. Talk to a junior or a|
senior about the change in student

 

 

 

 

cule and private sympathy. Now
students care whether we win or
lose. Some teachers are reputed to
favor football players, just as others
are reported to favor Southerners,
or Dekes, or what have you. Week-
before-last when the freshmen were
eating one of the first meals in the
commons, the varsity team, still tak-
ing preseason training meals there,
stepped to the front of a line of
several hundred freshmen to eat.
Neither the varsity team nor the
freshmen questioned this order of
precedence.

I believe this change in attitude
is what produces the football
which led the Richmond Times-
Dispatch to call W&L the state's
top small college eleven. But Ran-
dolph-Macon and Hampden-Syd-
ney are willing and able to dis-
pute that distinction. And it is a
rather dubious distinction at that.
How many people at W&L are sat-
isfied to have the best small-
college team in Virginia?

To rise to greater heights we need
quite a few things. We need more and
better football players. We'll demand
more of those more and better play-

ers. They must accept a_ bigger
challenge than the 1960 Generals
accept.

And what is the challenge for a
boy with size and speed and ability?
The challenge lies in a commitment
one step further than the one we
make now. There will only be a few
more hours per week on the prac-
tice field, a few more hours before
a movie screen, a few more hours
of meetings, a few more hours of
sleep a little more attention to ones
diet and activities, a few more times
when you're too tired to really
study, a little more brooding over
next week’s game, a little closer as-
sociation with ones teammates, a lit-

and faculty attitudes toward him | tle more time in the training —
as varsity football player in his, maybe a few more teeth chipped or
three or four years here. When this | ™5s!ng, 1n later years your tennis or
year’s senior entered here the W&L | gardening a little more of a chore
program was near its low-point. The because of a trick knee. All these fect of attendance can best be de-|

(Continued on page 4)

| =
ot =

|
|

i

Harvey Allen at the controls.

When Radio Washington and Lee)
takes the air waves a week from to-
morrow night, it will be setting out
on its first full academic year of
broadeasting.

The idea for such a series of
programs is not new. People con-
nected with the radio and televi-
sion part of the journalism depart-
ment have been talking in general
terms of something like what we
have now for years.

It is the outgrowth of one pro-
gram, “Kaleidoscope,” which was be-
gun in 1959, and has been heard
every Thursday night since then.
From this program, Bill Ashworth, a
June graduate, formed Radio Wash-
ington and Lee last spring. It drew
personnel from Home Edition, “Ka-
leidoscope,” and also included a large
number of people never before con-
nected with radio at W&L.

From the beginning, Radio Wash-
ington and Lee has covered almost
every aspect of a listener’s tastes.

Monday night’s “Pro Musica” of-
fers the listener the best in strictly
classical music. Tuesday night falls
away a little from the most serious

 

type music with the program
“Concert,” by playing music gen-

 
 

=<
—Photo by Young

Allen To Head Radio W&L’S
Broadcast To Varied Tastes

Wednesday night’s “Patterns” of-
fers a combination of popular music,
in the traditional styles, not rock
and roll, blended with the more pop-
ular type jazz.

Thursday nights, Radio W&L pre-
sents two half hour programs, dif-
fering from the hour-long offerings
the other four nights.

“Point-Center” is based on lo-
cal people, places, things, and
happenings in and around Lexing-
ton. The other half hour is held by
“Kaleidoscope,” the program on
which, in a sense, you might hear
anything. Last year’s “Kaleido-
scope” ranged from the takeoff on
“Monitor” called “Monster,” to a
documentary type production
covering the Civil War in words
and music.

Friday night offers “Jazz Echoes,”
a program devoted to all kinds of
jazz, progressive, modern, and Dixie-
land.

This year, Radio Washington and
Lee offers the same lineup of shows,
from the first words of “Pro Musica”
on Monday night to the last words
and notes of “Jazz Echoes” on Fri-
day night. As far as is known at this

| time, the programs will keep the
erally referred to as semi-classical. |

(Continued on page 4)

 

By HUGO HOOGENBOOM

Washington and Lee has always
prided itself on treating its students
like adults. In the catalogue we
write proudly of our system of stu-
dent self-government, the honor sys-
tem and other examples of maturity
of our student body. However, on
the ODK bulletin board an incon-
spicuous notice has been posted
which is contrary to the impression
we are trying to make. It simply an-
nounces that anyone who takes two
over-cuts in a course will get an
automatic “F” in that course.

This form of compulsion, even
more drastic than the old “Final
Absence Probation” system, is more
suited to a prep school or military
academy than to a free university.

One of the minor consequences
of this sort of system is the petty
;malingering that goes on at the in-
| firmary. A major consequence is
' thet we fail to give students a taste
of the responsibility they eventually
must take when they leave. This is
so because the absence rule is arbi-
trary, bearing only an indirect rela-
tion with the ultimate purpose of
the University, which is to teach.
The student with a good average who
gets an “F” because of over-cutting

 

 

will feel he has, and has in fact, |
been done an injustice.

correlation between the number of

In a University there should be a}

 

lectures attended and the grade ulti-
mately received. This is because ma- |
terial covered in class is not a mere)
rephrasing of the text material, but |
an amplification of that material. If)
this weren't so, we could all stay'|
home and go to college by mail. A|
student’s attendance should, per-|
haps, be weighed in computing his
final grade, because no examination
can thoroughly test a _ students
knowledge of the course. But the ef- |

 

termined by the individual profes-|

 

       

 

 

 

(SO YOU GOT 4-23 | | (M SORRY..I SHOULONT HAVE
YOUR RABIES REMINDED YOU OF IT...

SHOT YESTERDAY, a al
HUH ? DID IT

 

 

 

 

 

Scie . I

     

|

|
|

 

 

New Overcut Rule Is Criticized

sors. The automatic “F” is an aca-
demic rubber truncheon used by the
administrative police.

Another eTect of the present sys-
tem is to place too much emphasis
on dull-witted attendance, so much
so that to many, college is a place
where you have to attend classes,
rather than a place in which you
learn.

Many systems have been proposed
to replace the one now in use, but I
would like to offer just one more
out of my experionce as a class-
cutter and attender:

Everyone, no matter what their
average, class standing, or proba-
tionary status, should have one week
of cuts. Those with a “C” average
or better should be permitted a
minimum of two weeks of cuts with
no penalty, and as many more as
each individual professor may be
willing to permit. A man who is cut-
ting classes beyond reason can be
called in and warned, with various
penalties attending his failure to
heed the warning. A system like this
will remove the arbitrariness from
the absence regulations,

Along with this change, infirmary-
excused cuts could be eliminated,
and cuts resulting from sickness
could be treated just as any other

| cut. Cuts aren’t a vacation, nor a

privilege, but something to use in
emergencies. Those reforms would
end the stretching to which the hon-
or system is presently subjected.
(Continued on page 4)

Che Ring-tum Phi

Tuesday Edition

 

The Ring-tum Phi is published Tues-
day and Friday during the college year.
It is printed by the Journalism Labor-

 

sory Press. ashington and Lee Uni-
versity. ne mailing address is }
899, Lexington, Va, . oe
Entered 9g second class matter Sep-
| — * 1946 at the Post Office, Lak:
ington, a, under the ac f Mare
Sr aT e act of March
National Advertising Representative:
| The National Advertisers Service, Inc.
| 420 Madison Ave., New York, N.Y. :
| BAGF . sus... Rosewell Pag
sditor..... st age, III
| Business Manager.......... -Huntley Biggs
| Editorial Board
| Managing Editor.......... 3ill Roberts
Assistant Managing Kditor.. juenss z =
9 Milittanssssssssisssseennsamaee steve Galef
Ne ws Editor SN .Bob Bridewell
| Sports Editor....... Hee steve Guild
| Feature Mis hisisinscan,. Harvey Allen
; Associate Editors...... Lanny Butler. Bill
Smith, ie Ki
Copy Editors eu fot bee
= Hunter Manson
Photography Editor............... Bill Young

 
THE RING-TUM PHI

Page 3

 

 

W&L Faces Centre Saturday in Opening Game

Generals Are Ready To Cure
Some Of Last Season’s IIls

As the 1960 football season nears
the beginning for the Washington
and Lee Generals, the prospects for
a sexson to surpass or to at least
equal last year’s record seem very
good.

With 28 lettermen plus several
more boys with limited varsity ex-
perience and fifteen promising soph-
emores on the roster, there will be
no leck of depth as has been the
problem in former years. Every po-
sition is three deep with highly
qualified boys with some even four
and five deep.

Depth being no problem, the
chief concern of the team this year
will be that the teams which beat
W&L last year will probably be
even stronger, and those which
the Generals defeated will cer-
tainly be stronger than the off-
form status in which the team
caught them last year. In addition
Johns Hopkins, which had a 7-1
record last season, has been added
to this year’s schedule to toughen
things up a bit.

The one asset which the Generals
lost last year, and the effects of
which will be noticed greatly this
year is Jack Groner’s passing. Gron-
er was not only a superb passer but
was also a great pyschological spur
to the team. However, as he was an
asset, he was also a crutch upon
which the other boys on the team
depended perhaps too much. Coach
Lee McLaughlin hopes that this year
the Blue and White will develop a
more balanced offense increasing the
reliability of the ground game.

Frosh Football
Squad Looking
Good This Year

Even though it is really too early
to make any definite assumptions,
the prospects for the freshman foot-
ball team this year having a suc-
cessful season are even better than
lost year’s. Under the direction of
Coaches Hal Bates and Bill King,
the 37 boys have been working hard
to surpass last year’s record.

The six-game schedule which in-
cludes three home and three away
games will have a new replacement
on it this year with the addition of
Hargrave Military Academy, which
takes the place of Fishburn. The
team’s first encounter will be with
Hargrave on Wilson Field Friday.

In several positions there are boys
who seem to have much potential,
and especially at the halfback slot
with Henry Sackett, a 175 pound
Lynchburg, Va. boy. On the line the
coaches have placed a mighty 285
pounder, Doug Powers, at guard.
Others who have stood out so far
are Charles Savage, an all-stater
from Alabama, Sidney Butler, and
Ed Croft.

Varsity coach McLaughlin and his
staff have been working hard to re-
cruit these boys, and they seem to
have done an excellent job. Of course
any freshman team has to remain a
question mark until after the first
few encounters, but indications so
far seem to point to a winning sea-
son.

 

 

 

Green Valley Motel

One Mile North on
U. S. Highway No. 11

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA
HO 3-2195

 

 

 

Leeeeeeeoeeeee etd mety

THE NEW

White Top

Restaurant
*

A personal invitation
to the
Students
Try our delicious foods
Route 60 East

See he he the he he he he he she she fe ae she fe oe fe fe te oe oe ale oe neato oe ole olor

 

Sete ate whe he ate eile ae le ate ae alte ale whe athe le alle ate ae ae he atin Me alle Me Me Me Me Ma Ma Ba Ma Be te
ee ee ee ee ee ee eT eT Te eT eT TT Te ge AT Te Tee ge Be Mee tat Mae hae Ae tat tae ae

eee

sfeobeteodeteotesboteseobeoteteobeteeteoteteoteteateteas

Another ill which this year’s team
hopes to remedy is the Generals’
road jinx which was finally broken
-vith the Washington U. game in St.
Louis, which W&L won by a score of
35-26. This year the team will have
five away games as opposed to last
year’s four.

Heading the Generals this year
in the backfield will be Steve Sut-
tle, a Texas junior who was the
first unit quarterback last year.
Suttle has good defense playing
ability and can pass canably. Rob-
in Wood who lacks the size that
Suttle has also plays good defense
and is the top strategist on the
field. Others who will probably see
action in the quarterback slot are
Chuck Lane, who is out with an
injury now, and Phil Sharp.

At the halfback position Bob
Funkhouser, one of the tri-captains,
will be playing at left half for most
of the games, while at right half will
be Jim Russ, who carries the ball

Jim Russ makes the first down

 

as he is blocked by a VMI rat.

 

little, but had a 4.2 average on 23*
tries last year. Jim Hickey, who is
second string halfback, is another
player out with an injury, and it
is doubtful that he will see action
this week. Based on spring practice
showings, Joe Hess will be filling the
fullback position this year. Jack Ko-
walski is another second stringer
who is injured and he will probably
be out for the year. Tommy Keesee,
who was the freshman team’s best
back last year, is a sophomore hope-
ful in the fullback slot.

On the line spectators will be see-
ing much of Courtney Mauzy and
Terry Fohs, the other two tri-cap-
tains at center. At guard there are
more than enough to fill the berth,
but the four that stand out are Bill
Willes, Barton Dick, Tommy Good-
win and George Cruger, Graham
Fulton, a letterman who missed last
season, Bob Lewis, Malcolm Brown-
lee, and Bill Wheeler will all play
the tackle slot with help from soph-
omore Dave Munroe. The end posi-
tions will be rounded out with Ned
Hobbs, Rosie Page, and Bill Roberts.

All in all the team should have
(Continued on page 4)

 

Soccer Team To

By BOB HART

The W&L soccer team kicks off
its 1960 schedule with a home game
Sept. 26 against Pfeiffer College. Ac-
cording to Coach Joe Lyles the
team will be playing one of the
toughest schedules in the country,
facing such competition as Duke,
North Carolina, and Lynchburg.

The team counts nine lettermen
returning, with co-captains Dave
Knight and Frank Smith heading the
list. A goalie, two fullbacks, one
wing, and a halfback will not be
returning this year from last year’s
starting team. To fill these spots
Lyles will be depending on last year’s
returning lettermen along with a few
of this year’s promising freshmen.

Steve Hawkins is returning to
the squad after a year’s layoff and
is expected to strengthen the team
at the wing position. Freshman
Breck Alexander, an all New
England fullback in prep school last
year, is expected to see some ac-
tion on the varsity squad. Other

Begin Schedule

freshmen are Andy Hyde, Tain
Tompkins, Tom Green, and An-
thony Antoniades from Greece.

Although he cannot give a defi-
nite prediction as to how the team
will do this year, Coach Lyle says
that he has been particularly pleased
with the hustle that the team has
shown thus far. The team has not
yet scrimmaged, but hopes to do so
in the early part of the week.

The probable starting line-up for
the 1960 team will be goalie, Steve
Paley or Andy Hyde; fullbacks,
Dunlop Ecker, Harvey Preston or
Breck Alexander; halfbacks, Frank
Smith, Bob Pagano and Bill Out-
man; Center Forward, Dave Knight;
Inside, Jim Starkey, Charlie Begg;
Wings, Steve Hawkins or Mike Keat-
ing, Dick Herman or George Arcer.

 

The Fall Tennis Tournament ap-
plications are now being received by
Coach Washburn. Deadline for en-

 

tries is Wednesday, Sept. 21. Appli-
cation blank is on back page.

 

2) 00N00000UTUUAAAAAUEEE UAE

 

OPEN 24 HOURS

GLAD TO CASH CHECKS

Welcome Student Accounts

Road Service

Lloyd R. Bowling
E550

North Main Street

We realize that students play a large part economically in our

community, and we sincerely appreciate their

patronage and friendship.

STUINIUNUIUUUIUVUUAUUUVUVNUUUOUOUNUUUUAUAUUUIUAULEUUUUUOUUUUUUUUGEUUOUULGUOUUUUUUUOOUUEOUUOUOOOLNOUE TR

FUUUUUUUQQQEOOUUOQQQOEUUUUUUOGOOOOTUUEAOOOOEEOUUOOOOUETUAAA ATAHOTEL

HVNNQQ0000000000000U0EEEEEEEEEEEEEECEEEEEOE

=

! . . .
logical advantage. Our one-sided vie- |

We are approaching our 1960 foot- |

this Seturday with cautious optim-
ism. The experience and depth of
our squad make us look better than
at any time in the last six years. |
However, Centre will come to Lex-
ington with a very definite psycho- |

tory last year will serve as a spur|

The Centre team appears to be
one with a good experienced back-
field led by their great quarterback,
Kern Alexander. Gene Tassie, Ray
Kaelin and Bob Hourigan round out
the veteren backfield. The line is
relatively inexperienced, but big and
eager.

The Centre squad of 34 carries 16
freshmen, some with outstanding
high school records. Our W&L squad,
on the other hand, is composed of |
9 seniors, 23 juniors, 14 sophomores |
and no freshmen.

|—
You support will surely help us. |
|

ball opener against Centre College |

to a good Centre squad. lf

 

 

Coach Assesses Centre

Coach Lee McLaughlin

 

(Ed, note. Coach McLaughlin has

COACH MAC consented to write a weekly column.)

 

   

 

 

On Campus Vt nan

(Author of “IT Was a Tcen-age Dwarf’ “The Many

Loves of Dobie Gillis’’, etc.)

ONCE MORE UNTO THE BREACH, DEAR
FRIENDS

Today, if I am a little misty, who can blame me? For today I
begin my seventh year of writing columns for the makers of
Marlboro Cigarettes.

Seven years! Can it be possible? It seems only yesterday I
walked into the Marlboro offices, my knickers freshly pressed,
my cowlick wetted down, my oilcloth pencil box clutched in
my tiny hand. “Sirs,” I said to the makers of Marlboro—as
handsome an aggregation of men as you will find in a month
of Sundays, as agreeable as the cigarettes they make—mild yet
hearty, robust yet gentle, flip-top yet soft pack—‘Sirs,” I
said to this assemblage of honest tobacconists, “I have come to
write a column for Marlboro Cigarettes in college newspapers
across the length and breadth of this great free land of America.”

We shook hands then—silently, not trusting ourselves to
speak—and one of the makers whipped out a harmonica and we
sang sea chanties and bobbed for apples and played “Run,
Sheep, Run,” and smoked good Marlboro Cigarettes until the
campfire had turned to embers.

“What will you write about in your column?” asked one of
the makers whose name is Trueblood Strongheart.

  

LV emp

= Ahold d is eck i i} ii faba”? ie

“About the burning issues that occupy the lively minds of
college America,” I replied. “About such vital questions as:
Should the Student Council have the power to levy taxes?
Should proetors be armed? Should coeds go out for football?”

“And will you say a kind word from time to time about
Marlboro Cigarettes,” asked one of the makers whose name is
Honor Bright.

“Why, bless you, sirs,” I replied, chuckling silverly, “there
is no other kind of word except a kind word to say about
Marlboro Cigarettes—the filter cigarette with the unfiltered
taste—that happy combination of delicious tobacco and ex-
clusive selectrate filter—that loyal companion in fair weather or
foul—that joy of the purest ray serene.”

There was another round of handshakes then and the makers
squeezed my shoulders and I squeezed theirs and then we each
squeezed our own. And then I hied me to my typewriter and
began the first of seven years of columning for the makers of
Marlboro Cigarettes.

 

And today as I find myself once more at my typewriter, once
more ready to begin a new series of columns, perhaps it would
be well to explain my writing methods. I use the term “writing
methods” advisedly because I am, above all things a methodical
writer. I do not wait for the muse; I work every single day of

the year, Sundays and holidays included. I set myself a daily
quota and I don’t let anything prevent me from achieving it.
My quota, to be sure, is not terribly difficult to attain (it is,
in fact, one word per day) but the important thing is that I do
it every single day. This may seem to you a grueling schedule
but you must remember that some days are relatively easy—

for example, the days on which I write “the” or “a’’, On these
days I can usually finish my work by noon and can devote the
rest of the day to happy pursuits like bird-walking, monopoly,
and smoking Marlboro Cigarettes.

© 1960 Max Shulman

* * *

The makers of Marlboro are happy to bring you another
year of Max Shulman’s free-wheeling, uncensored column
—and are also happy to bring Marlboro Cigarettes, and for
non-filter smokers—mild, flavorful Philip Morris.

 
 
Page 4

Notices

Alcholic beverages will not be
permitted at W&L home games.

The Assimilation Committee has
a vacant post, and anyone inter-
ested in filling this position should
write Billy McWilliams at the Phi
Delta Theta house.

Bob Funkhouser has been ap-
pointed to the senior student post
of the Faculty Athletic Committee.
All persons desiring to be junior
members of this committee should
write to Billy McWilliams.

Applications for both of the
above positions must be submitted
no later than Saturday, Sept. 24.

There will be a meeting of all
freshmen and upperclassmen in-
interested in working on the Calyx
on Friday afternoon at 5 p.m. in
the Student Union. Previous ex-
perience is not necessary.

All students interested in being
football managers please report
to the equipment room of the
field house on Thursday at 3:30
p.m.

The Southern Collegian staff is
meeting tonight at 7 p.m. in the
Student Union.

 

Merit System Revised
(Continued from page 1)

Harold Fischel, Co. A, Perry Gordon,
Co. B, Dick Sharlin, Co. C, Steve
Tomasek, Co. D, and Bob Park, Band
Company.

Company E will serve in the roles
previously served by the Gaines
Guard, to include special demontsra-
tions, parades, and as an _ honor
guard, when required.

The system of merits and demerits
has also been revised, with limita-
tions placed on the number of de-
merits a cadet can receive before
being dropped from the program.
Freshmen are limited to 32 de-
merits, sophomores 28, juniors 24,
and seniors 20 per semester.

 

 

CTANLEY WARNER

STATE

LEXINGTON, VA.
|_NOBART 8-3424 |

 

 

LAST TIMES WED.

MURDER. INC:
2. SS ae

WED.-THUR.-FRL-SAT.
COLUMBIA PICTURES presents

KIRK KIM
DOUGLAS NOVAK
ERNIE BARBARA
Kovacs: RUSH
~ Strangers
iy We Meet
CinemaScope
EASTMAN COLOR

A BRYNA-QUINE
Production .

     

 

 

   
  

 

 

 

COMING
“All the Fine Young
Cannibals”
“Elmer Gantry”
“Angel Wore Red”
“College Confidential”
“From the Terrace”

 

 

Medical Cuts Questioned

(Continued from page 2)

The initial change-over, were this
system or one like it, to be adopted,
might result in a mild spree of cut-
ting, but this is to be expected
any time you remove restraint. Other
schools managed very well with lib-
eral cut systems, and it certainly
does not speak well for our student
body that we are afraid Washington
and Lee can’t.

Were Washington and Lee to
change the absence regulations, it
could then more easily accomplish
its proper business, which is to teach,
not to hand out arbitrary failures.

 

Generals Meet Centre
(Continued from page 3)

a fairly well balanced line with
a reasonable fast backfield which
will concentrate not so much on an
aerial game and do more ground
work this season. The team’s depth
should provide it with three com-

petent squads that will pose a
threat to any of the schools on
this year’s schedule.

How these and other changes will
work out on the field can only
be known when the Generals meet
the Colonels of Centre this week-
end at 2:00 on Wilson Field.

 

Radio Staff Meeting Set

(Continued from page 2)

same times as last year, beginning
at 8 p.m. and ending at 9 p.m.,
Monday through Friday night on
WREL.

Many of the persons associated
with Radio Washington and Lee
graduated last June. In doing so
they left many positions open on
the staff of Radio W&L for inter-
ested freshmen, sophomores, jun-
iors, and seniors to fill.

Openings needing qualified and
interested students range from the
producers of Monday, Tuesday, and
Thursday night shows, to staff an-
nouncers, and engineers. A meeting
will be held in the journalism class-
room tomorrow, at 4:45 p.m for all
persons on last year’s staff and any-
one interested in working on Radio
W&L this year. Anyone interested,
whether he is an old hand at com-
merical radio, a journalism major, or
just someone with an interest in
announcing, writing, or engineering
in radio is encouraged to attend the
meeting.

This year’s Radio W&L staff will
be under the direction of Harvey
Allen, Kappa Sig senior from Ft.
Worth, Tex., Program Coordinator;
and Nick Denton, Phi Kappa Psi
sophomore from Chevy Chase,
Md., as Program Assistant. Jim
Stott, Delta Upsilon sophomore
from Richmond, Va., will be the
series’ Chief Engineer.

ye hic

TUES.-WED.

 

 

 

 

2Oth Century-Fox presents

INGRID

BERGMAN
YUL
BRYNNER

HELEN

HAYES
ASIA

COLOR by DE LUXE

ff CinemaScorE

 
 
  
  

 

THURS.-FRL-SAT.
“The Country Girl”

 

 

 

 

THE RING-TUM PHI

Webster Speaks To Frosh

(Continued from page 2)

will be able to command obedience
to its rules, despite reluctance or
opposition in some quarters.

* * 1

Another W&L phenomenon need-
ing some advance explanation is the
political system. It is fast becoming
traditional.

 

| perhaps realizing that they couldn’t
| whistle past the graveyard forever,
almost committed themselves last

the minority party at one point was
ready to campaign on a platform of
reform.

It is possible that, if the majority
party feels unshakably secure this
year, some concessions may be made
through the Executive Committee.
It is also possible that the minority
party, tired of mere complaints, will
enter the arena with a vengence, and
win some elections by hard, honest
politicking.

A third area of mild controversy
may arise if the IFC reopens de-
bate on an extended Rush Week.
Early in the year, while the new
pledges are still cleaning the beer
cans out of the fraternity base-

5 West Nelson Street

 

 

 

 

Sobteetoedodetdedotdegebdogebdog ede teletobdobebdobdet etek detledeteledes

eee

Shirt Service as You Like it
Quality Cleaning and Pressing

UNIVERSITY CLEANERS
HO 3-3622

*
“Your Campus Neighbors”

See eee
Be Toate de oe oe oo ode ote cteateafeeeecgectectentestentente

sohbet fete eee tetentnbobententntententntetetetestetetetettotobatetettibedetedededetetetetete

Ted’s Steak House

Finest Foods
Choice Meats

Ww
SUNDAY DINNERS

 

Route 60 Buena Vista

Tareyton has

does

 

Leaders of the majority party,:

year to reforming the system. And| ‘

New Look In Football

(Continued from page 2)

hours and teeth cost. They cost in
the only four years a man has it.
for reflection, time for talk, time for
reading.

But Washington and Lee should
answer this question now, while we
have a team we are moderately hap-
py with and can point to with a little
pride: Is this wnat we want? If it’s
not enough for us, what price are we
willing to pay to get better? It is all
a question of what we think W&L
should be.

ments, and the brothers are real-
izing that they aren’t infallible in
judging freshmen, there is likely
to be a strong sentiment—rapidly
declining—against the current five-
day rat race. If the present rush
system survives, it will be for no
other reason than that it represents
the status quo.

(Here the gypsy woman, entering
the deepest part of her trance, began
to get tongue-tied. She kept saying
things like “Lush Week,” “Gush
Week,” and even “Mush Week.”

 

 

We welcome students

 

Phonographs—Hi-Fi

HO 3-3522

Filters for

flavor
—finest flavor by far!

Dual Filter

Shortly thereafter a passing hawk
i scattered the starlings, and the
seance ended.)

White’s Music
Store

Lexington, Virginia

 

ENTRY BLANK
1960 W&L FALL TENNIS TOURNAMENT
(Please Print)

Dorm Room No.

Mail or bring this entry blank to W. C. Washburn, Alumni Office,
Washington Hall.

All entries must be in by 4 p.m., Wednesday, Sept. 21st.

 

 

 

The Southern Inn

Cordially invites you to make this your headquarters for good food
Here you get the best food for the most reasonable prices

Our Specialties:

Steaks, Chicken, Country Ham, and the best sandwiches
in town

Meet your friends here

 

 

 

 

PARAMOUNT
Pe ua

 

 

 

—

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   

 

 

 

 

 

7 Te T34 =H wer irs
=~ op) os a
’ ul 1 am { = SS ~ . 4 .
PIZZA — — SARS tere 1
HAM BURGERS F = LARGE oss we
‘ Tues. NicHTs
a j ;
‘ ’ Oh
Ky DIE Fie
om Pane |!
hay or
\ <p!
—=, ~ —_ ~
— =,
a < i
| ©
y <a

 

 

the taste

it!

   

     

 

DUAL FILTER

 
 

Here’s how the DUAL FILTER DOES IT:

vew ovat men LOVEVLON

oY gq > "Ag , : ’
Product of She eurinan AbacerCom any — Stace is our middle name ©4 7 ce.

1, It combines a unique inner filter of ACTIVATED CHARCOAL
- +. definitely proved to make the taste of a cigarette mild and
smooth...

2. with a pure white outer filter. Together they select and balance
the flavor elements in the smoke. Tareyton’s flavor-balance gives
you the best taste of the best tobaccos.
FRIDAY
Edition

Che KRing-tum Thi

Washington and Lee Semi-Weekly Newspaper

FRIDAY
Edition

 

Volume LXI

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA, SEPTEMBER 23, 1960

Number 3

 

Four Freshmen To Sing

 

Dr. Jones Names Committee

Troubadours To Have
More Student Control

“The Lady’s Not For Burning” May Be First Play;
Contemporary American Drama To Be Presented

A reception was held Wednesday,
Sept. 21, at 7:30 p.m. in the Trouba-
dour Theatre for all persons inter-
ested in participating in this sea-
son’s productions of the Troubadours,
the student dramatic organization.

Dr. Jones in Charge

Dr. Cecil B. Jones, Assistant Pro-
fessor of Fine Arts at Washington
and Lee, was in charge of the meet-
ing, the purpose of which was to
give the students a general idea of
what working with the Troubadours
would be like and of the type of
plays to be produced this season.

Student Committee

Recognizing a need for a strength-
ening of the organization of the
Troubadours involving more direct
student control, a committee for re-
organization was appointed by Dr.
Jones from the ranks of the more
experienced students. Members of
this committee are Steve Danzansky,
Tim Morton, Bob Allen, Frank
D’Lauro, John Dunnell, and John
Towler.

First Play

If readings are satisfactory, the
first play of the 1960-61 season will
be The Lady’s Not for Burning by
Christopher Fry. The date for the
readings of the first play will be an-
nounced later. Also planned for pre-

 

sentation are a contemporary Ameri-
can play such as Streetcar Named
Desire by Tennessee Williams and a
contrasting play by a European play-
wright which will in some manner be
a departure from the realistic modern
play.

Dr. Jones reported that the sale
of student season tickets has been
very successful.

Succeeds Lanich

Dr. C. B. Jones is succeeding Dr.
Lloyd J. Lanich as director of the
Troubadours.

Dr. Lanich resigned from the fac-
ulty last spring to accept a position as
assistant professor of drama at Po-
mona College in Clairmont, Cal.
There he planned to teach drama and
fine arts and to direct dramas. He
was a 1947 graduate of Washington
and Lee and studied at Yale Uni-
versity.

Dr. Jones has been a fine arts
teacher at Lamar State College in
Beaumont, Tex., for two years. He
received degrees from Vanderbilt
University, Northwestern University,
and the University of Illinois.

Last year’s productions staged by
the Troubs included Taming of the
Shrew and Rashomon, both of which,
along with other Troubadour pro-
ductions, received wide-spread local
acclaim.

 

W&L Honor System Is Explained;
Student Executive Committee
Reviews Evidence In Violation

(Editor’s note: This is the first
article of a series dealing with the
student government to explain the
basic mechanics of the honor sys-
tem.)

The Honor System assumes that
every student is a gentleman and re-
quires that he act as such in every
college activity. Any violation of
this principle—lying, cheating, steal-
ing, or failing to report a violation—
is a breach of the Honor System.

When an alleged violation of the
Honor System is reported by a stu-
dent or a member of the faculty, the
Executive Committee immediately
assembles.

After collecting and reviewing all
of the evidence, the Committee, by a
simple majority vote, may, should it
find sufficient evidence to proceed to
trial, empower the president of the
student body to present to the al-
leged violator the option of vol-
untarily withdrawing from school
before facing trial.

Such a withdrawal relieves a guil-
ty student of any overt “black mark”

 

upon his record; but should direct
inquiry be made by an institution,
the facts of his withdrawal are dis-
closed.

Should the accused be uncertain
as to his guilt or convinced of his
innocence and elect to stand trial,
the Executive Committee again re-
views the evidence and questions the
witness and the accused in a fair
and impartial hearing.

In the event that two-thirds of
the Committee vote that there is
clearly a breach of the Honor Sys-
tem, the student is required to leave
school.

If a convicted student still feels
that he has been judged unfairly,
he may ask for a public trial by a
jury composed of students above
the freshman class. Instances of
such trials are rare, though they
have occurred in the past. This is
the final appeal in the trial for
an alleged violation of the Honor
System.

A student who has accepted the

(Continued on page 4)

 

 

Art Exhibit currently displayed in duPont Hall.
—Photo by Renshaw

 

The Four Freshmen

 

Pictures of candidates for Home-
comings Queen must be turned in to
the IFC by Monday, Sept. 26, it is
announced by IFC president Dave
Lefkowitz. A faculty committee will
pick the Queen and she will reign
over the festivities during Homecom-
ings, Oct. 8.

Also planned for the homecomings
is a pep rally which will be held
under the direction of the Varsity
Club and is tentatively scheduled for
7:30 p.m. October 7 in the gym. The
annual parade for freshmen is also
being taken under consideration.

Washburn Comments

Mr. William Washburn, alumni
secretary, commented on the out-
standing decorations of the past
years and urged the fraternities to
begin their plans immediately in
order to maintain the high standards
of the past.

Last year, Mrs. Geneva Fitzen-
hagen, representing the Beta House,
was chosen Homecomings queen.

Biggs Announces Business
Staff Appointments Today

Huntley Biggs, business manager
of the Ring-tum Phi announced
the following appointments today
to the business staff of the paper:

Jerome Dattle, a ZBT junior from
Ruleville, Miss., has been appointed
to the post of Advertising Manager
of the Tuesday edition; Ed Holmes,
a SAE sophomore from Winona,
Miss., to head the advertising staff
of the Friday edition of the Ring-
tum Phi; and Herb Solomon, a ZBT
Junior will be the Office Manager.

Pete Agelesto, a Phi Psi junior
from London Bridge, Va., is to be
the Circulation Manager for both
papers.

UCA To Meet
Monday Night

The first business meeting of the
University Christian Association is
scheduled for next Monday night,
| Sept. 26, in the basement of the
| Student Union. The meeting is de-
| signed to give freshmen and newly-
interested upperclassmen a_ picture
of the activities of the UCA and
a chance to become incorporated in
these activities.

 

 

Committee chairmen will outline
the work of their committees and
those interested in a specific com-
mittee will be given a chance to
join it. Old UCA members are asked
to be present in order that the com-
mittees may make plans for the
coming year.

Malcolm Brownlee, president of
the Association, says that the UCA
will emphasize discussion groups
more this year. “We feel that dis-
; cussion on religious and _ ethical
questions are among our most im-
portant functions,’ he said. “Our
discussions last year were well re-

(Continued on page 4)

Pep Rally, Queen And Fraternity

Decorations Spark Homecomings

 

The Delts won the decoration tro-
phy for the third straight year and
the Phi Gams Captured the spirit
trophy. However, the Generals were
defeated by the Carnegie Tech Tar-
tans, 20-16.

Also during the first IFC meet-
ing of the year, held last Monday,
Dean James D. Farrar spoke on
pledging and distributed a list of
social regulations to the house pres-
idents.

Wood Elected

Robin Wood, SAE junior, was
elected to the position of IFC social
chairman. His duties will include
the scheduling of parties for the in-
dividual houses.

The IFC also expressed its appre-
ciation to Ned Olds, SAE senior,
for his work as chairman of the
Rush Week activities this year.

The IFC committee on “Help
Week,” headed by Dave Leftowitz,
is to meet this week to consider
plans for the help activities this
year.

Regulations Prohibit
Drinking At Games;
EC Asks Cooperation

Washington and Lee’s rule pro-
hibiting drinking on the campus will
be strictly enforced at all home ath-
letic contests, Student Body Presi-
dent Kent Frazier said today.

The regulation will be implement-
ed by the members of the Execu-
tive Committee.

Quoting from the original state-
ment issued by an earlier Committee,
“Attention is called to the fact that
in the spring of 1952 the Executive
Committee of the Student Body as-
sumed from the University admin-
istration the responsibility for the
conduct of students at all home
athletic contests.”

Cooperation Asked

 

“This responsibility was then and |
is currently assumed in the belief
that the Executive Committee could |
better perform this task than the |
University Administration, in the |
interest of both the student body |
and the University.”

The statement goes on to say that |
“as a part of this responsibility the
Executive Committee is charged with
the enforcement of University stand-
ards of gentlemanly conduct at ath-
letic events. One aspect of this policy
is the requirement that:

“There be no public drinking at
any athletic event held on _ the
Washington and Lee campus.

“The underlying wisdom of this |
rule should be apparent to every |
student. At our home games many
friends and sponsors of the Uni-
versity are in attendance as well
as the general public.

“The cooperation of all students
in this matter is sincerely asked by |
the Executive Committee. This rule
will be enforced-—and violators may
be asked to withdraw from the Uni-
versity for a specific period of time.”

 

At Openings

University Dance Board President Jim Vann announced
today that the Four Freshmen, a popular singing group, has
been signed for the Opening Dance Set Concert in October.
Vann’s visit to New York last june resulted in the signing of the
contract with the International Artists Corporation who manage

 

Goodwyn To Be
Administration
Committeeman

Warren Goodwyn, senior law stu-
dent from Montgomery, Ala., has
been appointed to represent the stu-
dent body on the Administrative
Committee of the University. Good-
wyn’s appointment was made by the
Executive Committee of the Student
Body.

As an undergraduate, Goodwyn
was president of the SAE House,
battalion commander in the ROTC,
and a Distinguished Military Stu-
dent. He has served on the Exec-
utive Committee for three years, and
is presently on the law school board
of governors. Last spring he served
on the Steering Committee of the
1960 Mock Democratic Convention.

Succeeds Abeloff

Succeeding Bill Abeloff as the sec-
ond student to hold this position,
Goodwyn will attend all meetings of
the Administrative Committee. This
group is responsible for the hand-
ling of most cases involving stu-
dent discipline and absence viola-
tions.

Although he has no vote, Good-
wyn will have the privilege of the
floor to express himself on all mat-
ters. Through him, the student body
will be able to voice its opinions to
the committee.

The requirements for this posi-
tion include the student’s being well
acquainted with W&L affairs, and
being a recognized school leader.

Danforth Asks

For Seniors’

Applications

The Danforth Foundation, an edu-
cational Foundation located in St.
Louis, Mo., invites applications for
the tenth class (1961) of Danforth
Graduate Fellows from college sen-
ior men and recent graduates who
are preparing themselves for a career
of college teaching, and are planning
to enter graduate school in Septem-
ber, 1961, for their first year of
graduate study. The Foundation
welcomes applicants from the areas
of Natural and Biological Sciences,
Social Sciences, Humanities and all
fields of specialization to be found
in the undergraduate college.

President Fred C. Cole has named
Mr. James D. Farrar as the Liaison
Officer to nominate to the Danforth
Foundation two or not to exceed
three candidates for these 191 fellow-
ships. These appointments are funda-
mentally “a relationship of encour-
agement” throughout the years of

(Continued on page 4)

 

 

the quartet.

The Four Freshmen will appear
at Washington and Lee on Oct. 29
for the concert Saturday afternoon
of the Dance Set.

Vann says, “The reputation of this
singing group is an adequate testa-
ment to the calibre of their enter-
tainment. It is the sincere wish of
the University Dance Board that the
Washington and Lee Student Body
respond accordingly by doing their
part to make the Dance Set a suc-
cess.”

Some of the popular albums of the
Four Freshmen include “Four Fresh-
men, Five Saxes,” “Voices in Love”
and “Four Freshmen and Five
Trumpets.” They include such hits
as “I’m always Chasing Rainbows,”
“Tll Remember April,” “Warm,”
“This Can’t Be Love,” “Sometimes
I'm Happy,” “In the Still of the
Night,” “Got a Date With an Angel,”
and “Give Me the Simple Life.”

“Voices Are Instruments”

Capitol Records, for whom the
Four Freshmen record, has this to
say of the group.

“Because their voices, individually
and collectively, are so agreeably
listenable, it takes a while to real-
ize that the Freshmen use them as
though they were instruments.

As a happy consequence, they are
able to carry off complicated, un-
orthodox arrangements that are un-
hampered by the threadbare idioms
of commonplace vocalizing. This
unique facility stems from the quar-
tet’s musical grounding, formidable
technique, and boldly imaginative
concepts. One result of their vocal
innovations is a growing list of
highly successful albums.”

An article about the Four Fresh-
men that is on the back of their
album, “Voices In Love,” says this
about the group:

“Whether generating a warm, full-
blooded atmosphere or moving into
the nostaglic groove, the Freshmen
blend perfectly with their back-
ground. And, no matter what the
tune, they display the openhearted-
ness that’s been their musical signa-
ture since the beginning.”

Though they handle their material
with assured suavity, the article
continues, there remains that pat-
ented Freshmen freshness of spirit
and idea. This ingenious craftsman-
ship has kept them leading popu-
larity polls for years. The group has
won the “Best Vocal Group” race
in Metronome and Down Beat polls
four straight years, and has led
the field in Billboard and Playboy
polls.

“Seldom has any vocal group
boasted more plentiful musical tal-
ents. Bob Flanigan handles the upper
vocal registers, plays trombone, and
doubles on bass. Don Barbour, the
second voice, plays guitar; his
brother Ross sings the third part and
plays both trumpet and drums. Ken
Alber rounds out the group, sing-
ing bass and blowing trumpet and
mellophone.

 

 

 

 

Dean Sprunt, Dean Gilliam and Mrs. Brownlee in the

  

8

newly constructed

offices in Washington Hall.
Che KRing-tum Phi

Lest We Forget The Social Fraternity

We herald the “New Era.” We support the new program
of promises. We endorse the trends in academic life at Washing-
ton and Lee.

Yet, we champion the propagation of the social Greek-letter
fraternity—not in an effort to protect it from accusations that
list it as a deterrant to progress—but because we know it to be
a necessary part of an education for which there is no substi-
tute. The accusations, though, are important and need to be
reviewed.

The statistics, as printed in last week’s Ring-tum Phi, illus-
trate its wane by marking a six per cent drop in fraternity
pledging this year as compared with last. Statistics, then, are
the first of the many foes to fraternity life.

Most scholars class fraternity activities as juvenile, and
fraternity pre-eminence as sacrilege to the academic tradition
of diligence, excellence, and advance.

Professors, conditioned to a way of life rooted in dedication,
see fraternity life as a stagnant, damaging complex of mixed
orientation to ruin the potential of a student.

Many parents view fraternity life as that element of evil
which inflicts their son with moral regret. Fraternities are also
cursed because they are responsible for barbaric “hell week”’
ceremonies, corrupt campus politics, academic and athletic
apathy, as well as the unneessary excess expenditures of a col-
lege education. They are accused of promoting atheism, dis-
crimination, and alcoholism.

These are a small proportion of the many accusations made
against fraternities. Many of them are well-founded and rele-
vant, but in fraternity life the examples of such malignancy
are the exception rather than the rule.

The college fraternity is an institution, and like every in-
stitution its idealogy is hampered with misconceptions and im-
perfections. This is true of a university, a church or any other
such ways of life.

The decline of the Greek-letter fraternity is a national
reality. They are being denied their individuality and right of
selection as well as being nearly or completely annihilated on
many of the nation’s campuses. More and more the role they
play in the drama of college life is being eliminated or softened
to the extent that they occupy a portion of a dormitory or a
small house for occasional meetings and gatherings if they
exist at all.

 

T GUESS YOU I SUPPOSE YOU WOULON T CARE
PLAY ONLY TO PLAY “ROCK-A-BYE BABY ’
MUSIC, DON'T YOU, /] | FOR MAY LITTLE SISTER HERE, JUST

SCHROEDER? AS A FAVOR, WOULD YOU?

ae —

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

T WAS AFRAID
OF THAT & 516d 4

    

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

RING-TUM PHI SUBSCRIPTION NOTICE

Students who would like to have the Ring-tum Phi sent to friends or
relatives, please fill in the subscription blank below and send it with a
check payable to the Ring-tum Phi for $5 to: The Ring-tum Phi, Box 899,
Lexington, Va. This rate covers a subscription of one year.

With our eyes on the galaxies we must not limit our educa-
tional system to mere academic stimulus although this is essen-
tial and important. Man, or more specifically, a Washington
and Lee student, regardless of his academic prowess and I.Q,,
is a social being—sensitive to and for the feelings of his fellow
students and associates. The social education of a man should
not be neglected for it is through his relations with his fellows
that his life gains meaning and direction.

Why then are fraternities necessary at Washington and Lee?
We hold that they assume a necessary responsibility for which
there is no feasible substitutes—namely, the development of
social character.

Consider how a freshman arrives at Washington and Lee
a finished product of his home or prep school environment.
While in high school or away at prep school he has been under
the powerful influence of his parents or a regulatory system
which sought to develop his social character—restricting his
rebellious nature and fostering the qualities that are accepted
in society. The important point here is that there is an influence
at work to develop or promote social character.

We speak of social character not as a set of accepted be-
havior norms characterized by such terms as politeness, well-
manneredness, breeding, and the ability to mix well. These, of
course, are part of the spectrum of social character, but the
goal in character development is the ability to share relation-
ships with a fellow student in such a way as to contribute to
the well being of all parties concerned. So in the conjugal family
and even away at school, the potential freshman is, as a rule,
constantly pressured by this outside influence to seek social
development of character.

Now allow is to set up a hypothetical situation in which
Washington and Lee is “‘blessed’’ with the absence of fraternity
life and customs. The freshman would temporarily be sustained
by this Freshman Camp indoctrination, faculty counselors,
etc., into the traditions of Washington and Lee. This we feel
could never break down. Eventually, however, relationships
between freshmen would be, in a measure, shallow because
of the lack of upperclass interest and direction.

This upper class concern is most important in the life of
a freshman, even a sophomore. The trend, no matter the op-
position, is to conformity, and it is the new individual’s wish

undergraduate. So not only is there a force at work pressing
conformity, there is also a genuine desire to belong. This again
offers a means to social relationships and sound development of
these.

The freshman then under a “fraternity conscious” system,
has left behind at home or in school a strong developing force
only to enter another. With the Greek-letter fraternity exerting
both positive and negative pressure (or influence) upon an
individual, the individual is made to choose a course for his
social life and made ever aware of the fallacies and merits of
his choice.

Positive influence is that pressure which is condoned by
moral, ethical and aesthetic values. An example of this is the
brotherhood of men, and more specifically, the brotherhood of
students at W&L. Negative influence, often condemned as
disasterous, would be evidenced in the supposed tendancy for
fraternity brothers to lead an initiate into excessive and damag-
ing use of alcohol. Although we have said there is an element of
conformity in the student’s nature, there is also powerful free
will and individuality. Because of this, when confronted with
such negative pressure, the student may elect to protect himself
from it, and thereby his character is strengthened.

We hold then that the influence, positive or negative, ex-
erted by the fraternity upon a student is far superior than no
influence at all. Because social character is the result of develop-
ment and not accident, the fraternity makes an irreplaceable
contribution to the student and the university.

Washington and Lee needs the beneficial elements of fra-
ternity life to supplement the excellence sought in academics.
Without this moral and social conditioning that a student re-
ceives as a result of fraternity relationships, he would be ill-
prepared to meet post college life.

If re-organization or re-orientation is needed in fraternities
let it come. But we must never allow this institution to fade, for
it was founded and exists for a purpose greater than the per-
sonal whims of the individuals sharing in its way of life.

This purpose is brotherhood. Sir Walter Scott wrote: “The
race of mankind would perish did they cease to aid each other.
We cannot exist without mutual help. All therefore that need
aid have a right to ask it of their fellow-men; and no one

 

to conform to the sober and accepted character of the mature

who has the power of granting can refuse it without guilt.”

Academic Excellence Is In The Limelight
As Era Of “The Gentlemen’s C” Passes

Friday Columnist

At long last the artificality that is
Washington and Lee Rush Week is

we over; fraternities
both
end non-success-
© ful, can now fade
' back to an appro-

   

' role, and the real
raison d'etre for
our college career,
_ the academic cur-
§ riculum, can now
come forth and
assume its proper
role. For no mat-
ter how important it might have
seemed last week who was going to
pledge where and who was going
to be bid where, that factor which
now has the limelight, and quite
justly so, is academic excellence.

|

Unfortunately, with the schedule
set up as it is now, there is a great

 

| danger that the incoming freshman,
| judging from the prominence that
the fraternities have been given in

By JIM VANN

successful

§ prixte background |

the opening days of school, might
| tend to over-rate the fraternities and
| give them a position of importance
jin his thinking and emphasis that
| they neither merit nor possess. Af-
| ter oll, it is really of little over-all
|'importance whether you were in
| one fraternity or another—or in one
|at all for that matter—but it is of
| pyramount importance whether you
are admitted to the graduate, busi-
ness, or law school of your choice.

It is so very important that every
Washington and Lee student an-
alyze his own thoughts and goals
and be certain that he is oriented
in the proper direction and _ that
he is concentrating on that which
is of real, and not ephemeral value.
Personally, it is hard to conceive
of a more exciting time here at
Washington and Lee than to be be-
ginning an academic career.

Both the new president and the
new dean of the college are anx-
ious to promote and encourage aca-
demic excellence here on the cam-
| pus; and the high standards that

they are apparently setting for the

 

| university seem to have caught on
| throughout the faculty. There is a
new interest and excitement among
many of the faculty that has been
noticed by nearly all the returning
students, and at long last the day of
the ‘gentleman’s C’ has past. It is
no longer fashionable here at W&L
to emphasize the role of the ‘stud
horse’ or the blase southern dilet-
tante at the expense of studies, and
from all indications in the adminis-
tration, it is not only no longer fash-
ionable but also no longer to be
tolerated.

Emphasis has refreshingly shifted
from a cloying romanticism over the
southern past to an active faculty
and an alert student body. It is so
very important that every student
realize this change and shift his
thinking and action accordingly. Un-
derstand that this is not an atempt
to overdramatize the situation and
infer that the school has undergone
a complete revolution and that all
that we have loved and enjoyed here
has departed forever. Such is not
the intent at all. Rather, the purpose

 

Loyalty To Traditions Weakened By Rules

By MALCOLM BROWNLEE
Friday Columnist

The student body at Washington
and Lee is fortunate to have a num-
ber of traditions which are valued
by nearly all its members. But, as
is the case with most things that
are valued, it has been found that
these traditions must be guarded by
means of rules.

Such rules are necessary to pro-

tect the traditions from the few stu-'

dents who do not value them and,
in some cases from the students who
do value them.

That these rules are needed is
unfortunate. Not only do they show
that our traditions are not as strong
as we would like them to be, but
also they weaken the loyalty which
many students have to these tradi-
tions.

A student is less likely to be proud
of a tradition or to see its worth
if there is a rule governing his keep-
ing it. The responsibility of uphold-
ing a tradition is turned into the duty
of obeying a law and avoiding a
penalty.

Possibly this can be best observed

 

in regard to the tradition of attend-
ing classes, a tradition, not of Wash-
ington and Lee alone, but of college
life in general. Most students agree
that attending classes is valuable; yet
the faculty doubts that we value it
highly enough. Therefore, there are
rules governing our attendance.
These rules mean that even the stu-
dent who sees the value of classes
will often look at a class period
as something to endure in order to
avoid an “F” in the course.

Most Cherished

The honor system is probably the
most cherished of our traditions. Yet
even here rules and penalties are
necessary since there are a few stu-
dents who, for one reason or another,
will not adhere to the tradition. But
these rules weaken the honor in the
honor system, making it, in a cer-
tain respect, just another kind of
disciplinary system.

In another respect, however, the
honor system is genuinely based on
honor. Most freshmen soon lose their
initial fear of the system. For the
remainder of their student life if the
thought of cheating even enters their

minds, it is usually quickly dismissed.
In this is the strength of the honor
system.

As for conventional dress most
students consider it a good tradi-
tion though there are some who
question its worth. To make the
questioners conform, penalties are
necessary, especially in the spring.
Yet these penalties weaken the tra-
dition for those who value it high-
ly.

A new tradition seems to be aris-
ing: that is not to wear conventional
dress whenever there are no penal-
ties involved in not wearing it.
Among upperclassmen there were
no coats and ties to be seen during
the time preceding rush week.

Even more pertinent is the prob-
lem of the publicity office each year
during graduation week. If students
are not proud enough of a tradition
to display it when there are num-
erous visitors on campus, one must
raise serious doubts as to how
highly they value the tradition.

Speaking Tradition

The speaking tradition is possibly
the only one at Washington and Lee

 

which would exist without penalties
and which is not weakened by pen-
alties. No one fears being called
before the Assimilation Committee
for not speaking; no one would think
of reporting such a neglect. Yet
friendliness is a _ tradition which
every student practices.

Some freshmen have received the
wrong impression that the Varsity
Club has passed a rule requiring
them to attend this year’s home foot-
ball games. No such rule exists. The
statement made at freshman camp
was simply to the effect that fresh-
men are urged and expected to at-
tend home football games and that
the Varsity Club encourages such
attendance.

Still, there seems to be a _ possi-
bility that the Varsity Club along
with the Assimilation Committee
will try to get a rule passed requir-
ing attendance of freshmen at a
certain number of home games. Such
» rule, in our opinion, is highly un-
desirable. The Varsity Club’s ef-
forts to promote school spirit are
to be highly commended; but if this
rule is passed, the Club will be de-
feating its own purposes.

 

A rule will take away much of a
student’s pride in supporting the
team. All rules tend, in a certain
way, to weaken the tradition to
which they apply. Attendance at
football games has become a tra-
dition followed spiritedly by almost
the whole university. Let us not
weaken it by making it a require-
ment.

* * *

Also pertaining to football attend-
ance, the Dance Board has picked
the worst possible weekend for this
year’s Openings, the weekend when
the Generals meet Hampden-Sydney.
This is the closest of this fall’s away
games and many students would
normally attend it. But the game
will come on the same afternoon as
the concert, making it impossible for
students to attend both the game
and the most popular dance week-
end events. In addition there are the
hazards involved with drivers who
are tired from the night before.

It is probably too late to resche-
dule this fall’s dance, but this is a
request for a little more forethought
in scheduling future dance weekends.

 

 

of these words is to point out that
there has been a decided shift in
emphasis at the university, and the
factor of prime importance now is
not whether you are a fraternity man
or whether you are “ivy-leagued”
and “go down the road,” but whether
you can measure up to and contribute
to a standard of academic superiority
that will continue to grow more and
more demanding.

The handwriting is on the wall for
the “good time charlies,” and the
quicker this fact is perceived the
better off the student will be.

A Statement

The following is a statement of
ownership, management, and circu-
lation of The Ring-tum Phi as re-
quired by the Act of August 24, 1912,
as amended by the Acts of March
3, 1933, July 2, 1946, and June 11,
1960. The Ring-tum Phi is published
twice weekly and out-of-town sub-
scriptions are entered as second-
class entries in the U. S. Post Office
of Lexington, Va.

The publisher is the Washington
and Lee Journalism Press with Nath-
an P. B. Simpson and Rosewell
Page, III, as editors, and Huntley
H. Biggs as business manager. The
address of the preceding is P. O. Box
899, Lexington, Va.

The owner is Washington and Lee,
Lexington, Va. There are no bond-
holders, mortgages, or other security
holders. The average number of
copies of each issue of this publica-
tion sold or distributed to paid sub-
scribers during the 12 preceding
months was 1500.

Che Ring-tum Phi

The Ring-tum Phi js published Tues-
day and Friday during the college year.
It is printed by the Journalism Labor-
Sore Press. Washington and Lee Uni-
versity. ne maili P
a Lexington, Vans address is Box

“ntered as second class matt -
tember 20, 1946 at the Post Office, en
seton, Va., under the act of March

National Advertising Represent ye:
The National Advertisers Ca
420 Madison Ave., New York, N.Y.”

Editor-in-Chief..........

Business Manager... “Nathan Simpson

Huntley Biggs
Editorial Board

Managing Hditor................Geo
Assistant Managing Editor rge Honts

 

 

wears ea presbebdssusstesesaaniing ney i
Sports Editor. Bill Outman

  

Associate Edit wuTom Rains

Copy Editor Tom Jord
Photography Editor..Clarence henghaw

*

 
 

 

 

THE RING-TUM PHI

Page 3

 

W &L Generals Take Aim At Centre’s Colonels

Booters Meet Pfeiffer
In Opener Here Monday

Coach Mac and
Team—Ready

Two years ago, Washington and
Lee’s Coach Lee McLaughlin looked
at the freshman-dominated varsity
squad and remarked, “There’s no
substitute for experience.”

Result— a 1-7-0 season that in-
cluded interesting football but few
victories.

Last year, McLaughlin looked
over his | sophomore-dominated
squad, and remarked, “There’s no
substitute for experience.”

Result—a 3-4-1 season that saw
even more interesting football, which
could have produced a 6-2-0 year
with the addition of just eight more
points in the right places.

Recently, Coach McLaughlin look-
ed over his junior-dominated foot-
ball team and remarked, this time
with a big smile, “There’s just no
substitute for experience.”

With a nine-game season opening
up tomorrow here  agzinst the
Prayin’ Colonels from Centre Col-
lege in Kentucky, Lee McLaughlin
feels his charges at last have the
experience to produce the winning
season he’s been seeking for four
long years.

“I think we should have a win-
ning year, although I don’t think
there’s a team on our schedule that
can’t take us,’ he declares. “But,
on the other hand, there’s not a
team our boys feel they can’t handle.
It’s a healthy attitude, one we've
had before, but this year we have
some of the people to back it up.”

Some of those people are 27 letter-
men and about a dozen promising
sophomores who will give the Gen-
erals three-deep strength in ability
and two-deep strength in experience
at every position.

No longer are there any freshmen
on W&L’s varsity football squad,
and the 1960 team is populated by
nine seniors and 15 sophomores.

Coach McLaughlin believes in
using lots of man power when it’s
available, so Centre’s prayin’ Colo-
nels can expect to see in the neigh-
borhood of some 40 Generals on the
field tomorrow afternoon, depending
on the W&L injury list.

“Last year I was able able to use
every man on my squad in the last
three ball games, and they were all
three close games,” explains Coach
McLaughlin. “I felt I could send any
boy I had in there and he’d do a good
job for me. I hope to be able to do
the same thing tomorrow.”

McLaughlin’s successful “Go-T”
offense will again be in use this year
as it was last year. Under this sys-
tem the left half operates as a regu-
lar T-formation halfback part of the
time and as a single-wing tailback
on other occasions. This offense al-
lows the use of three different units
interchangeably, which in turn gives
greater depth to the team.

Perhaps the best indication of how
the coaches and the team feel is
this statement by Coach McLaughlin:
“The boys honestly feel there isn’t
a team on the schedule they can’t
beat, and I feel that if we could

he he fe oe ender eee oe oe oe se oe oe ale ole oho ole ole she fe odo

CALL BY NUMBER
and Save Time

2
%
%
+
:
LEXINGTON :
:
&
*

 

ve

:

%

*

t

* TELEPHONE CO.
PeeeeeeeEeeeeeeneeeedes

 

 

 

W&L Tri-Captains: Bob Funkhouser, Terry Fohs, and Courtney
Mauzy.

play our very best every week, we*

could come close to taking them all.
But it’s hard to keep a team oper-
ating at peak efficiency, both phys-
ically and psychologically. I will say
one thing—our boys are tired of
losing, they want to win, and I
think they will win some.”
Generals to watch Saturday in-
clude halfback Bobby Funkhouser,
the State’s second-ranked scorer last
year with 64 points; linebacker Ter-
ry Fohs, the Generals’ 145-lb. de-
fensive specialist; and quarterback
Steve Suttle, the team’s top rusher
last year with 263 net yards.
Opening against Centre in 1959,
Washington and Lee surprised them
with a 45-8 rout. Funkhouser scored
three touchdowns, Fohs led individ-
ual defenders with 14 tackles, and
Suttle directed four scoring marches.
Coach McLaughlin is hoping that
his observation on winning football
holds true on Saturday. Like he
says,
“There’s no substitute for exper-
ience.”

FOOTBALL SCEDULE

Sept. 24—Centre College............ Home
Oct. 1—Dickinson College.......... Away
Oct. 8—Franklin & Marshall*..Home
Oct. 15—Randolph-Macon ........ Away
Oct. 22—Johns Hopkins Univ. .. Home

Nov.
Nov. 19—Washington Univ.......Away
*Denotes Homecoming

 

 

For those extra pieces
of

FURNITURE

for your room
see our stock
before buying

®
VARNER AND POLE

 

 

 

 

 

The Southern Inn

Cordially invites you to make this your headquarters for good food
Here you get the best food for the most reasonable prices

Our Specialties:

Steaks, Chicken, Country Ham, and the best sandwiches
in town

Meet your friends here

 

 

 

Po

Ee eeeeeeeeeetebh beet eee eee

Congratulations
YOU'RE STILL ALIVE

But you may not be for long if you drive faulty tires on
your car.

HOW SAFE ARE YOUR TIRES?
Let us inspect them. We are tire specialists.

General Tire Kraft Recapping
Spencer General Tire Co.

Route 60 East

ee teehee tendo ode ender ode eet ofan odo nte ote ofa nee oe ere oe ote ober ote teeters ote ode oboe ote eee

*
*

%

%
*
:
%
t
¢
$
£
t
*
+
t
$
+

 

Fall Tournament

Ready To Begin

Drawings were held Wednesday
evening for the field of 32 entries
in the fall tennis tournament, and
the results are posted on the gym-
nasium bulletin board.

The matches are as follows:
Fred Hulett

vs. Pete McMurtrie
Culver Smith vs. Bud Hollman
John Baker vs. David Hyman
Elwin Law vs. Ted Freed
Bill Tedards vs. John Leonard
D. Lefkowitz vs. Gwathmey Tyler
George Paul vs. Jud Reis
Keith Carr vs. Hugh Trout
Robin Dunlap vs. George Chandler
Steve Walsh vs. Dick Parsons
Jim French vs. Rick Boye
H. Morrison vs. Murph Doty
G. Summers. vs. Bill Fidler
Harry Kurz vs. George Wick
John Culley vs. Jerry Wilbourne
Steve Parel vs. Peter Barber

Each contestant is requested to
contact his opponent and arrange for
play. First round matches are to be

(Continued on page 4)
ee
«Dodge and Dodge Dart’

and Lance

America’s First Fine

ECONOMY CAR
*

Rockbridge Motor Co.
INC.

Phone HObart 3-3146

 

*

 

Cross-Country
Starts Monday
Against Pfeiffer

By JOHN ALLGOOD

The W&L cross-country team, al-
ready in “remarkable” pre-season
shape, opens its season Monday after-
noon against Pfeiffer College here at
2:45.

Coach Dick Miller, who was all
smiles after watching his harriers
turn in very fast time trials Thurs-
d-y, would not make any predic-
tions about Monday’s meet, but said
that Pfeiffer was weak in cross-
country.

“We beat Pfeiffer pretty badly last
year on a rainy day on a flat course.
Running here will be even toucher
for them because we have one of the
toughest cross-country courses in
the South.”

In 1959, W&L topped Pfeiffer, 19-
39, which was only four points off
a perfect 15-point score.

Heading the team are last year’s
one-two men, sophomores Mike
Shank and Stoney Duffey. Other re-
turning lettermen are Captain Holt
Merchant, the team’s only senior;
junior Allen Curran, and sophomore
Lewis Jones.

Two track lettermen, Craig Distel-
horst and Ed Garretson, who both
ran the two-mile event last season,
join the cross-country ranks this
year.

Coach Miller named Mike Brumby,
Bob Williams, Bruce MacDonald,
and Norm Youngblood as his most
promising freshmen.

The harriers, who chalked up a
5-4 record and finished seventh in
the state meet last year, lost only
one of its top seven men, Captain
Bill Loeffler.

“We have a promise of being
stronger this year, but a lot de-
pends on the freshmen,” Coach Mil-
ler said.

After Pfeiffer, the cross-country
team travels to Randolph-Macon
Oct. 3 and then tackles Hampden-
Sydney here Oct. 8 in what Coach

(Continued on page 4)

 

Washington and Lee University’s
soccer team, second best in the
state last year, opens its 1960 season
here Monday against Pfeiffer Col-
lege of North Carolina.

The ragged, but potentially strong
varsity squad opened its season un-
officially last Wednesday with a
a scrimmage against VMI.

The Generals managed to tally
three times while holding the Key-
dets to one goal. A great deal of
credit must begiven to the VMI
soccer club, however, since soccer is
not an Institute sponsored sport.

The W&L scoring opened on a
cross pass from Jim Starkey to left
wing Wick Hollingshead who tipped
the ball past the goalie. This goal
was scored in the first five minutes
of play.

Later in the contest the varsity
again scored, this time on a pass
from Chuck Beggs to Steve Hawk-
ins. This was a well executed play
on the part of Beggs who set up
Hawkins with a head ball.

Flaws were found in the W&L
team, and VMI scored on a fine
shot from 20 yards out into the up-
per right-hand corner of the net.

The Generals came back in fine
style, recovering admirably, and
found scoring range again when
Steve Hawkins got his second goal
of the afternoon. This was a power-
ful shot for which the VMI goalie
had no chance. This also concluded
the scoring in the match.

The varsity missed many passes
and set-ups which accounts for the
use of the word “ragged” in the
opening paragraph. Still, it was the
team’s first encounter of the season
and there is still time to iron out
the mistakes before meeting Pfeiffer
College on Monday.

As far as apparent strength goes,
Coach Lyles has nine lettermen back
from the 1959 squad which won five,
lost three, and tied one in regular
season play. The Generals also won
three, and lost twice to state cham-
pion Lynchburg College in the first
state intercollegiate tournament.

 

He MG OB. Be Be He He Me ae ate ste sta ate site te she she ae the ste ste

At present, Coach Lyles is work-
ing with a squad of 25 upperclass-
men and a dozen freshmen. Of the
freshmen, the top candidates appear
to be Breck Alexander, Peter Alford
Clem Clarke, Whit Fitzpatrick,
Tom Green, and Tain Tomp-
kins. Coach Lyles indicates that he
will use these six in Monday’s var-
sity action.

Center forward Dave Knight and
halfback Frank Smith, the team
co-captains, heed up the strong
nucleus of veterans. Other letter-
men include Charlie Begg, Dunlop
Ecker, Mike Keating, Bill Outman,
Bob Pagano, Steve Paley, and Jim
Starkey.

Coach Lyles says he thinks he has
two “sleepers” in wing men Steve
Hawkins and Wick Hollingshead,
who won letters in 1957 and 1958,
but who sat out last season.

Coach Lyles was pleased by the
aggressiveness and willingness dis-
played by every member of the
squad. He stated that if the boys con-
tinue to work hard, then formidable
opposition will not seem so formid-
able once the Generals take the field.

 

whe
oe

 

Baker
Ford Sales

&
BETTER DEALS

CLEARANCE
of lot for 1961 Models

NEW AND
USED CARS

Highway 60 East

‘Me Me Me Ma ste Ma Ma Ma Ma Me ste Ma atte ste ite he ita ite Baste she ta tte tte he a tte he a te ta ae

OO OES AGS MG Ae MES OES OAS AS OES OES ES ES OE ES SS SS ee eT eee
gt tat tae ae a Et Ee ee Se eS eS eS Se eS eS ee eee

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Serko Lente ooo eee oe esos eof oe ese ofa aes seo afore oe ee eof ese feo oe oe oe of fe

Shirt Service as You Like it

Quality Cleaning and Pressing
UNIVERSITY CLEANERS

HO 3-3622

*
“Your Campus Neighbors”

*
eee rte ode fe fee ote ole oe oe oe rhode of ofeofeofeofeoeofeofe o oe oe af of eof of of oe oe oe oe endef ake afeafe af ode ode afer

she alte she she Me Me a Me a Be te te the Be te Ba eae
OE ES Se Se Se Se ee SS Se ee

Buta te
re

 

 

Open a convenient student Checking account
TODAY

at

Rockbridge National Bank

Member Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

VARSITY ° °
The First National Bank
BILLIARD of Lexington
ACADEMY *
has special checking accounts

Catering d
To Students pf oe

Corner of Leto dete dette tee teteete be tetebte tet lemblebledeh dette

Washington and Jefferson We Feature

eee rrrrrrrrrrreenrrrrrrrrrererererererF

=

Dairy Products
“To get the best get Sealtest”

over twenty different products in addition to
delicious Sealtest ice cream

Block and Crushed Ice

Your favorite mixes—Ice Cold

x
Maple-Rock Distributors, Inc.

Phone HO 3-2168
oo toate decease otto otto ofste oot oeoteteobrteteoteteoteoeoteteobeteotesteteteoteteoteteoteteoteteeh

Me Tere oer ote fe feof afeofe fe oon oe ne feof ne oe ae oe afee oho afe ole afe ofo fe fe ofe she ode feat

 

 

l= y Dinners include salad bowl (all you can eat) served with our three
THE COLLEGE INN homemade dressings, baked potato with creamery butter, cheese and
chive sauce, a delicious topping for baked potato.
5 Hot rolls, coffee or tea.
The Best Food in Town oe
‘ : THIS AD WORTH 25¢ ON ANY DINNER
American and Italian
Friday, Saturday or Sunday, Sept. 23, 24, and 25
Catering to the Students, Faculty, : oo tie
and Towns People Open Week Days 4:30 to 10:00 p.m.
OPEN SUNDAYS Sunday 12:00 Noon to 10:00 p.m.
> J) oo

Boswell’s Steak House

Rt. 60’s Newest Restaurant
Two miles east of Clifton Forge

Charcoal Steaks, Chicken,
Shrimp and Ham Dinners
$1.75 to $3.75

i.
.

 

 

 

 

+.
Page 4

THE RING-

TUM PHI

 

Dr. Allen Defends Materialism

A British professor of American standard. Her history, from the com-

history Monday evening attributed
America’s much-criticized material-
ism to her unique commitment to
democratic government. Dr. Harry C.
Allen of London University said
that “keeping up with the Joneses is
a means of competition but it is the
way to excell in most generally ac-
cepted fields of endeavor.”

Dr. Allen, speaking on “The
Myth of American Materialism,”
said that America’s experiment in
total mass democracy has left her
with no universal social or ethical

 

NOTICE

Members of the Dance Board
will be in the Co-op on Wednes-
days and Thursdays to collect
money on Dance Plans still out-
standing. Payment is due before
Oct. 15.

There will be interviews for
those juniors and sophomores in-
terested in joining the Student
Service Society, on Tuesday, Sept.
27, at 7:30 p.m. in the Student
Union.

The Forensic Union at W&L is be-
ing revived because of student inter-
est. The Union will be under the
direction of Professor Latture and
Mr. Chaffin. The Union will hold
its first meeting Monday, Sept. 26 at
7:15 in the Student Union.

The Assimilation Committee will
meet Tuesday evening at 7 p.m. in
the Student Union.

 

 

CTANLEY WARNER

STATE

E34) Tice) Rae
|_NOBART, 32-3424, |

 

 

LAST TIMES SAT.
COLUMBIA PICTURES presents
KIRK KiM

 

 

CinemaScope
EASTMAN COLOR
A BRYNA-QUINE
Production

  

 

TODAY'S
YOUNG
SAVAGES!

M-G-M presents

lie Robert
WOOD - WAGNER
in AN AVON PRODUCTION
“ALL THE FINE
YOUNG CANNIBALS”

Susan George
KOHNER - HAMILTON
wa Pearl BAILEY Ss"

 

 

 

 

METROCOLOR
i. a

SUN.-MON.-TUES.

Sinister

and
screamingly
funny!

 

  
   

COLUMBIA PICTURES presente
A CAROL REED PRODUCTION

Our Man

In HAVANA
sumo Alec Guinness

Burl Ives: Maureen O'Hara

Ernie Kovacs: Noel Coward
Ralph Richardson

 

 

Green Valley Motel

One Mile North on

U. S. Highway No. Il

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA
HO 3-2195

merical ventures of Columbus
through the business-oriented gov-
ernments of the 19th and 20th cen-
turies, has been heavily infused
with economic motives. We have no
common ethical or social value sys- |
tem grounded in church or tradition.
This persistaent emphasis on money-
making coupled with our lack of a
common value system has led to
wealth becoming the criterion for
social prestige and approbation.

 

Honor System And
Trial Methods Explained

(Continued from page 1)

option of withdrawing from school
before trial or who has been found
guilty in an Executive Committee
trial is accompanied at all times by
two members of the E.C. until de-
parture from Lexington. This prac-
tice is maintained for the benefit
of the accused as well as that of the
entire student body.

The penalty for a violation of the
Honor System is sharp and irre-
pealable dismissal from the univer-
sity. This penalty is administered
by the 12-man Executive Commit-
tee only in those cases in which the
prosecutor, chosen from the E.C.,
has shown (beyond a _ reasonable
doubt) that the evidence supports
a breach of the Honor System.

The Executive Committee asks the
students to realize that the utmost
secrecy must be employed in the
investigation of alleged honor vio- |
lations—secrecy for the benefit of |
the guilty as well as the innocent.

Rockbridge

THEATRE
Buena Vista

 

 

 

SUN.-MON.-TUES.-WED.
Sept. 25, 26, 27, 28

VAN DOREN
WELD

INTRODUCING

BOT

 

 

 

 

ALBERT ZUGSMITH rnooutan «ona ws ee

 

 

 

Radio Hospital

RADIO, TV, PHONOGRAPH
SALES AND SERVICE
HO 38-3531

 

 

 

 

CIVIC
Bowling
CENTER

—TEN PINS—

—DUCK PINS—
1:45—5:00
6:30—10:30

14 E, Nelson St.

| last year.

Cross-Country Team

(Continued from page 3)
Miller
meet.”
In Thursday’s trials Shank and
Duffey finished one-two. Shank’s

23:20 time was only a little over a
minute off the school record he set

calls “the first real tough

The next five finishers, Garretson,
Brumby, Youngblood, MacDonald,
and Merchant, all had times under
26:20.

CROSS-COUNTRY SCEDULE

Sept. 26—Pfeiffer College............ Here
Oct. 3—Randolph-Macon............ There |

Oct. 8—Hampden-Sydney............ Here |
Oct. 15—Lynchburg.................... There

Nov. 4—High Point and Catawba*
isis High Point, N.C.

Nov. 12—Marshall College............ Here

Nov. 14—State Meet....................00
sasstcississandis Hampden-Sydney, Va.
*Dual Meet

 

NOTICE

Students, alumni, townspeople and
faculty members can purchase tick-
ets for any W&L home football
games on Saturday mornings from
9-12 preceding the games at the
W&L athletic office. This program
has been initiated by the athletic de-

 

partment to avoid the pre-game con-
gestion at the gates.

Danforth Foundation

Offers Senior Grants
(Continued from page 1)

graduate study, carrying a promise
of financial aid within prescribed
conditions as there may be need.
The maximum annual grant for
single Fellows is $1500 plus tuition
and fees charged to all graduate stu-
dents; for married Fellows, $2000
plus tuition and fees charged to all
graduate students with an additional
stipend of $500 for each child. Stu-
dents with or without financial need
are invited to apply. A Danforth
Fellow is allowed to carry other
| scholarship appointments, such as
Rhodes, Fulbright, Woodrow Wilson,
Marshall, ete., concurrently with his
Danforth Fellowship, and applicants

: for these appointments are cordially

 

Tennis Tournament
(Continued from page 3)

played by Tuesday, Sept. 27. It is
essential that a prompt schedule be
maintained. Tournament officials
warned that matches not played
within time schedule will be de-
faulted.

 

 

TETLOW
TV Service

221 S. Main St. HO 3-2841

 

 

 

 

 

 

—————

=

 

al

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

PARAMOUNT
NH oh

 

 

 

|

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Med 8d —

  
 

 

\ PIZZA jor

STEAKS

Y
2

amt =

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

fine

 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Finest
Choice

SUNDAY

w

Route 60 Buena Vista

Ted’s Steak House

Foods
Meats

DINNERS

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ROCKBRIDGE LAUNDRY

and
Dry Cleaners

Shirts Transparently Wrapped
for Freshness
*
AGENTS:

Fraternities, Dorms and Co-op

 

 

 

 

 

invited to apply at the same time
for a Danforth Fellowship. If a man
received the Danforth Appointment,
together with a Rhodes Scholarship,
Fulbright Scholarship, or Woodrow
Wilson Fellowship, he becomes a
Danforth Fellow without stipend,
until these other relationships are
completed.

All Danforth Fellows will partici-
pate in the annual Danforth Founda-
tion Conference on Teaching, to be
held at Camp Miniwanca in Michi-
gan next September, 1961.

The qualifications of the candi-
dates as listed in the announcement
from the foundation are: men of out-
standing academic ability, personal-
ity congenial to the classroom, and
integrity and character, including
serious inquiry within the Christian
tradition.

All applications must be complet-
ed by Jan. 15, 1961.

LoHeeEreeeeeeeaddieeey
IDEAL
BARBER SHOP

QUICK SERVICE

wore

Meso rferforfe ste nfe fonts

.
le
4
%
ie
%
¥
ie
e

eee eeetetdtb beat

THE NEW

White Top
Restaurant
*

A personal invitation
to the
Students
Try our delicious foods
Route 60 East

i le ie le ie le le ie ie ae a ie le a a i ie he i ee he i ee ee ie

 

4
4
4
4
%
4
9
4
.
4
4
*
4
4
*
‘
4
4
4
%
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
9
4
4
9
4
4
%
%
4
4
4
9
4
4
q
4
4

feoke ode oho obese rhe sfe she oe feof fe feof oe fe fe fe ode oke aie

 

ebbebebeennarnennnditee L

hetero she fenfesfe fe nfe fe nfo ole ne nfo ole oe ofe fe of she nfe ole she ate nfo oho soot

 

UCA Meets Monday

(Continued from page 1)

ceived and we plan more for this
year.” He said that several of the
freshman class had already express-
ed interest in discussion groups.

The executive council of the Asso-
ciation met last Sunday afternoon.
Committee plans for this year were
discussed in detail. Plans for the
University Religious Conference
were outlined, and arrangements
were made for the starting of fresh-
man discussion groups and a week-
ly worship service.

 

 

Traditional
W&L BLAZER
With University Crest
and Buttons

The
COLLEGE TOWN

Shop

Student Charge Accounts
Welcomed

 

 

Lexington
Laundro Matic

209 S. Main
*

HAND IRONED
SHIRTS

Dry Cleaning

Service

for your convenience

 

 

 

COOH SOHOHSOHSOHHSOSSHOHSOHSOHOSOSOOHSOSODOTHROOO0E
FOR ROOM RESERVATIONS—CALL HO 3-2151

LEXINGTON MOTEL
Large Rooms—U. S. 11 By-Pass South
Free TV—Phones—Continental Breakfast
Only Motel in corporate limits of Lexington
POOH OOOSOOSOOCOSOSOOOOHDOOOOOOSSEOHOCOOOOOOEOOEE®E

 

DIXON’S

ESSO SERVICE CENTER
ROUTE 60 EAST IN LEXINGTON

Across from the White Top Resturant
HO 3-4214

Wash, Grease, Lube, Road Service

Charge Accounts Welcome

 

sepa tant el een ae aa eat

 

%
7

 

 

 

%
%
$
%
%
%
%
%

 

STUDENT ACCOUNTS
INVITED HERE

Regular or Special Accounts

The Peoples National Bank

101 South Main Street
Lexington, Virginia

Member Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation

PRE ee eee eee hele ee ee ee ee eee ee

fe

*,
%
%

*
%

Ra
Ky

Pha deb m deme eet debe btee

 

 

 

 

 
 
 
  
  

 

ex

PY

      
 

   

When their raft’
parts, two “muskie”

 

 

 

 

 

om ( WE'LL NEVER MAKE
IT, DAN! LOOK!
RAPIDS AHEAD] | )

ES Lenn,

s mooring line
fishermen
desperately fight the current to
reach the shore of the river...

  

THATS THE MAIN
ating

  

 

     
   
  
  

    

  
  

W THE CURRENTS
& HELPING US
By SWING IN~

you
SURE
THINK FOR.

   

  

25-POUND
TEST LINE
HOLDS WELL
JUST CLEAR

  
 

 
 
  

 

“25-\b. test’ means the line
itself will stand 25 pounds of
pull, but with the aid of the
“spring” in the pole, it will
hold much more.

 

 

 

VICEROY ? THANKS!
SAY...WHY DO YOU

{ ...AT BOTH ENDS!

 

 

 
  
  

vs) BECAUSE 3

VICEROYS GOT IT

GOT THE FILTER,
GOT THE BLEND!

GOT
[| THE
i FILTER...

Viceroys got't....
at both ends

 
  
  
  

© 1960, BROWN & WILLIAMSON TOBACCO CorRP,

   

 

 
aE OC Oe

 

TUESDAY
Edition

he Ring-tum Phi

Washington and Lee Semi-Weekly Newspaper

TUESDAY
Edition

 

Volume LXI

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA, SEPTEMBER 27, 1960

Number 4

 

400 Old Grads
Will Attend

Homecomings

Some 400 alumni and their wives
are expected to return October 7 and
8 for Washington and Lee’s annual
Homecomings football weekend.
This year W&L’s Generals will meet
the Diplomats from Franklin and
Marshall.

“We have scheduled Homecomings
early this year in order to take ad-
vantage of Lexington’s beautiful fall
weather. We feel that this will make
the weekend more enjoyable for the
returning alumni, and will further
encourage campus decorations,”
stated Mr. William C. Washburn,
Alumni Secretary.

Mr. Washburn urged that fra-
ternities begin plans for Home-
comings early this year, and
warned that the early date might
take many by surprise. As usual,
the fraternities will compete for
the best decorations and for Home-
comings Queen.

Four awards will be made this
year for Homecomings decorations.
The judging will be done by an im-
partial committee picked by the
Alumni Association, and will be
based on originality of design and
of skill of construction. Last year’s
awards included a large silver tray,
an expensive table and chair set,
and $25 worth of records.

The Interfraternity Council again
plans to sponsor selection of the
Homecomings Queen. Details are to
be announced later in the month. The
Homecomings Queen is traditionally
crowned during the halftime cere-
monies. Franklin and Marshall’s
marching band is also scheduled for
halftime entertainment.

Last year, 365 alumni and their
wives attended Homecomings, and
this year there are indications
that the number will increase. The
Alumni Association has again plan-
ned a full round of activities.

 

 

President Pearce Hardwick (seated, center), and the vice-presidents for Openings Dances, (1. to r.) Grantham
Couch Dave Beale, Charlie Commander, John White, Pete Agclasto and Buddy Jones.

 

Parents’ Weekend Slated To Be Busiest
One Ever Held im Its Six Year History

 

Dr. E. W. Spencer Elected
Officer By Geology Group

Dr. Edgar W. Spencer, head of
Washington and Lee University’s
Department of Geology, has been
elected vice president of the Yellow-
stone-Bighorn Research Association
of Red Lodge, Mont.

The association is composed of
geologists from all over the United
States who are interested in research
and field study in the northern
ranges of the United States’ Rocky

(Continued on page 4)

 

Student Cooperation
Vital to EC Members

(Editor’s Note: This is the sec-
ond in a series of articles designed
to familiarize the student body
with the mechanics of the honor
system and the Executive Commit-
tee of the student body.)

The Executive Committee is com-
posed of twelve duly elected mem-
bers of the student body. The presi-
dent, vice-president and secretary
of the student body who are elected
in the “Big Seven” elections each
spring, are officers of the committee.

The remaining membership of the
Committee is made up of two com-
mitteemen from the senior academic
class; one from each of the other
academic and law classes, and one
man appointed to represent the Pub-
lications Board.

The primary duty of the Executive

 

Committee is to interpret the honor
system. The Executive Committee
would emphasize that the respon-
sibility for maintaining the integri-
ty of the honor system at Washing-
ton and Lee rests upon the should-
ers of the students. The members
of the Committee are pledged to do
everything within their power to
uphold this integrity. Without one
hundred per cent cooperation from
every member of the Student Body,
the Committee can not do a perfect
job.

It is the duty of every student,
not only to respect the honor code
himself, but also to report any sus-
pected violation on the part of an-
other student to one of the Execu-
tive Committee members.

(Continued on page 4)

 

%* By JOHN KIRKLEY

The sixth annual Washington and Lee Parents’ Weekend
will be held this year on Oct. 21, 22, and 23. The weekend is
sponsored jointly by the Parents Advisory Council and the

University to promote more

IFC Meets With

Proctor Murray

The IFC held a short meeting Mon-
day night in the Student Union.
At the first of the meeting Univer-
sity Proctor Bob Murray discussed
the automobile regulations and
warned that many automobiles still
have not been registered under
the new University rules. Offenders,
he said, will lose their driving priv-
ileges if this rule isn’t followed.

It was decided that an extension
to Thursday noon will be allowed
for turning in Homecoming Queen
entrants by the different fraternities.

Last year’s outstanding freshman
will be chosen soon by the IFC. Also
an IFC committee is working on
rules to enforce anti-hazing regula-
tions by fraternities here.

On Sunday, Oct. 2, a reception
will be held in the Evans Dining
Hall for the five new housemothers
now in Lexington. The housemothers
and two members of each fraternity
are invited to attend this reception
at 2:30 p.m.

During the year the three new
exchange students will dine at each
of the fraternity houses.

Next week, Dr. Pusey, Dean of the
College, will address the IFC con-
cerning the new academic regula-
tions of the University.

 

personal relations and greater

*understanding between parents and
the University.

Scheduled activities for the
weekend will begin Friday after-
noon and include campus tours,
visits to the Lee Chapel, parental
attendance in classes, and a Glee
Club concert. Parents will also
have the opportunity to confer with
faculty members during two con-
ference periods.

A meeting of the Parents’ Advis-
ory Council will be held Friday af-
ternoon. Under the guidance of
Chairman L. 'P. Nelson, Jr., of Cul-
peper, Va., the Council will discuss
topics of interest to parents and ways
in which the parents may serve to
better the University. In the past,
the Council has made recommenda-
tions concerning such things as auto-
mobile regulations.

For the first time a home football
game will be held during the Parents’
Weekend. On Saturday the 22, the
Generals will meet Johns Hopkins
on the gridiron.

Other events arranged for the par-
ents include departmental displays;
a “Report on the State of the Uni-
versity” by student leaders, adminis-
trative officers of the school, and
members of the Parents’ Advisory
Council; panel discussions by facul-
ty members; and a buffet luncheon
for parents and their sons in the
Letitia Pate Evans Dining Hall. Last
year the faculty panel discussions,
one on the “Beat Generation,” the

(Continued on page 4)

 

*

Openings Dances
Veeps Announced

Pearce Hardwick, president of Opening Dances has an-
nounced his choice of vice-presidents for the dance set. The
vice-presidents include Charlie Commander, Buddy Jones,
Grantham Couch, Dave Beale, John White and Pete Agelasto.

The vice-presidents will assist Hardwick in the various

Campus GOP
Slates Dalton

The Young Republicans of Wash-
ington and Lee will kick off their
“Nixon for President” campaign
with a meeting tomorrow night at
7:30 in the Student Union. Guest
speaker for the occasion will be
John Dalton, a prominent Radford
lawyer. Mr. Dalton is the son of
the Hon. Ted Dalton, who ran against
Gov. Almond in the 1958 guberna-
torial election before being appoint-
ed United States Judge.

man of W&L’s Young Republicans,
has invited all persons interested
regardless of party affiliations. “We
hope that everyone interested in the
presidential campaign will join us in
hearing Mr. Dalton’s views on Nixon
and the Republican Party.”

 

Partington Enforces
Traditional Rules

Donald H. Partington, Chairman
of the Assimilation Committee, has
announced today that the following
rules regarding student traditions
will be enforced for the academic
year 1960-61.

A. Applying to all students:

1. Conventional dress will be
worn at all times on the campus
and in the town of Lexington.

2. Each student will extend a
greeting to all persons whom he
meets on the campus.

3. Each student shall conduct
himself as a gentleman at all
times.

B. Applying to all freshmen:

1. Freshmen will wear the regu-
lation blue beanie at all times on
the campus and in the town of
Lexington. This beanie will be
worn until such time as the As-
ismilation Committee feels the
freshmen have properly assimi-

lated themselves into the student
body.

2. Freshmen will use the campus
walks and only the campus walks.

3. Freshmen need not wear con-
ventional dress in the University
Supply store after 9:00 p.m. Bean-
ies, however, will be worn.

Partington said, “To date, I feel
that the freshmen are assimilating
themselves very well into the stu-
dent body.”

George Honts was appointed sec-
‘retary of the organization and Rob-
| ert Hart as treasurer.

 

 

Dave Cook, the temporary chair- |

 

phases of planning and organizing the dances. Hardwick named
t *the vice-presidents as part of the

overall planning for the weekend at
which the Four Freshmen will ap-
pear.

Charlie Commander is a Phi Delta
Theta junior from Jacksonville,
Fla. Commander is president of the
junior class, a member of the Dance
Board, Commerce Fraternity, Calyx
staff and was rush chairman for his
fraternity. In addition, he is a mem-
ber of the lacrosse squad. Command-
er will handle the invitations for
the dance set.

Buddy Jones will be in charge of
all major constructions. He is a Beta
Theta Pi junior from Shreveport,
La. Jones has been a member of
the Calyx staff and is assistant sports
editor of the 1961 Calyx.

Grantham Couch will aid Hard-
wick in planning the figure. Couch
is historian of the junior class, as
well as a member of the Commerce
Fraternity. He is also a varsity letter-
man in golf and football. He is a
Beta Theta Pi junior from Shreve-
port, La.

In charge of publicity for the
weekend will be Dave Beale, a Delta
Upsilon junior. Beale is from Hous-
ton, Texas. He was vice-president
of the sophomore class, and serves on
the Ring-tum Phi and Southern Col-
legian staffs. Beale has also played
on the varsity basketball team and
was secretary of his fraternity.

John White and Pete Agelasto will
be responsible for all of the art dec-
orations for the dance set. White is
a Kappa Alpha from Scranton, Pa.
He is a letterman on the varsity
football and track teams. He is also
treasurer of his house and a member
of the House Manager’s Association.

Agelasto is a member of Phi Kap-
pa Psi and a junior. He is from
Virginia Beach. Agelasto has worked
on the art for previous dance sets
and was a vice-president of the 1960
Finals Dance Set. He has been on
the Ring-tum Phi business staff and
is presently circulation manager. He
is a member of the Library Commit-
tee and the University Christian
Association,

Hardwick also stated that the Co-
tillion Club will take part in the
figure at Openings Dances. He is
co-president of the organization
along with Bill Outman. Members of
the Cotillion Club will receive a
favor from the dance for themselves
and their dates.

Hardwick was chosen as Openings
Dance Set president last spring in
the school elections. He is a Beta
Theta Pi junior from Akron, Ohio. He
is a Dean’s List, Honor Roll and Phi
Eta Sigma student. He is a member
of the Student Service Society, Dance
Board and is sports editor for the
Calyx.

 

W &L Posts First Victory of Season Against Centre College

  

Dave Tharp (29), Bob Funkhouser (27),

—Staff Photos by Young

os )
o

bs

(Story on page 3)
Page 2

Che Ring-tum Phi

 

Enthusiasm Grows

Washington and Lee has in the past been known for it’s out-
standing school spirit. It was this spirit that made the Wash-
ington and Lee Swing so famous throughout our land. It was
this spirit that pushed so many of the school’s subsidized athletic

teams to victory.

With the advent of the school’s program of nonsubsidiza-
tion, this great school spirit seemed to fall with the fortunes of
the athletic teams. Crowds at the games began to wither away.
Interest in all forms of athletics seemed to be lost forever from

the student body.

Participation in athletics and especially in football dwin-
dled to an unprecedented low. It became necessary to call fresh-
man athletes up to play on the varsity level. The general student
attitude discouraged the “gung-ho” freshman from risking life
and limb on the athletic field and encouraged him to give up his
athletic endeavors and the sacrifices that went with them for a
life of social ease and intellectual pursuit (which, by the by,
may not necessarily go hand in hand).

This lack of spirit in the student ranks may have been
understandable. Washington and Lee’s fans were used to seeing
the big teams of Virginia and the South appear on Wilson Field.
They were used to seeing these teams meet on even terms. Un-
der the new program they saw “‘little” teams trounce the flound-
ering Blue Saturday after Saturday. It was difficult to be enthus-
iastic under these circumstances.

These days are gone from Washington and Lee. The old
fans are gone. There is a new fan who has never seen the
University of Virginia play on Wilson Field. (We may see it
sooner than we think if the Wahoos don’t shape up.) He is
interested in Washington and Lee’s football team. He is interest-
ed in seeing his fraternity brothers play. And most of all he is
interested in seeing a winning team. There were three thousand

of the new fans in the Wilson
noon.

Other evidence of increasing school spirit is the growing
number of boys interested in participating in intercollegiate
athletics at Washington and Lee.
are dressing some forty-two boys for their games. The varsity
squad has forty-three members. The soccer and cross-country
teams have grown in the past couple of years. All of this is en-

couraging.

We feel that the change should be accredited to the athletic
department and especially the coaches who have done such an

excellent job of recruiting the

student body not only for offering its support to the teams dur-
ing the games, but also for encouraging the freshman and soph-

omore athletes to participate.

Field seats on Saturday after-

The freshman football coaches

“amateur” athletes and to the

 

THE RING-TUM

PHI

  

 

Antonio Janigro, and his ensemble

Rockbridge Concert Series Opens
Oct. 17 With Yugoslav Ensemble

A world-famous instrumental en-
semble from Yugoslavia, the Solisti
di Zagreb, will open the 1960-61
Rockbridge Concert Series on Mon-
day, Oct. 17. This group was en-
thusiastically acclaimed by critics
and public alike when they toured
the United States three years ago.
Some Lexington concert-goers heard
the Solisti when they appeared at
Hollins College on that earlier tour
and found them very special instru-
mental music makers.

Conductor of the ensemble is An-
tonio Janigro, an Italian by birth,
who moved to Yugoslavia in 1939 and
became the leading musical person-
ality of that country. He ranks as
one of the world’s principle cellists
and has appeared as guest soloist and
guest conductor with major orches-
tras in Europe and America. He will
play Boccherini’s Concerto in B flat
major for violincello and_ strings
in the group’s Lexington concert.

On December 13, Robert MacDon-
ald, who opened last year’s Wash-
ington and Lee Concert Guild series
with a brilliant piano recital, will
make a return visit to Lexington
for the second event in the Rock-
bridge series. Mr. MacDonald, who
is a South Carolinian, has had a
significant success in Austria where
he has made his home much of the
time in recent years.

An attraction appearing for the first
time in America will visit Lexington
on January 12 when Caledonia!, the

 

Passing of Co-op Spirit Bemoaned

By BILL ROBERTS

“The Co-op” means many things to
many people. To the newly-arrived
freshmen it is the sum of what they
have heard about it spiced with a
few personal experiences (not unlike
his knowledge of all other facets
of Washington and Lee.)

Joe Freshman can probably mus-
ter a few ideas about the Co-op. He
is used to the preface “so-called”
being affixed to “Co-op” by Profes-
sors trying to see that their stu-
dents get textbooks. He no doubt
has some experience, traumatic or
otherwise, with buying those texts.
He has noted that the counter help
is two-thirds uncooperative and
rude. He has noted that the co-op
resembles any modern drugstore ex-
cept it has no drug department.
And he perhaps has noticed the co-
op has pinball machines which cost
10c, because Washington and Lee
students are affluent enough to pay
10c to play pinball.

We do not choose to write about
the Co-op of today, or of its short-
comings or virtues. We want to talk
about The Spirit of the Co-op which
we believe an integral enough part
of the W&L Spirit to be enshrined
in one of those leaflets that the
Good Dean sends to prospective stu-
dents.

The Spirit of the Co-op is best
studied by observing the conduct of
a Member of the Co-op, an odd
being characterized by faithful at-
tendance at his Co-op Hours (free
periods) and a unique style to his
performance of these duties. I might
add that this species is found only in
the senior or junior classes. It is not
just coincidental that these two
classes are the only ones who are
fortunate enough to have used the
old Co-op.

The only way to study this van-
ishing species is to follow him
through his walk to the Co-op from
the hill, his performance at the Co-
op and his walk back. A chronologi-
cal study of a typical 10:15 team
member will reveal the essential
co-op style and some of its chang-
ing aspects.

The Walk to the Co-op. The true
Co-oper must leave class with every
intention of going to the library to
study during his free period. But as
he leaves the classroom building (not
before) he is permitted to sound out
another habitue thus, “Co-op?”

The initial step taken, a delicate
role-play begins in which the first

 

man to say he has to study must use
every argument at his command to
keep from being dragged down the
hill by the second man. Both roles
are considered desirable and an old
hand can play either to the hilt.
Some slight exaggeration in regard
to hour quizzes and to the quality
of Co-op coffee is permitted by the
Honor System.

The Performance in the Co-op.
Upon entering the Co-op the team
member must not recognize the pres-
ence of other team members who are
ensconced at the tables there, for
to do so and go on to the counter
would imply that he would rather
eat than talk. After buying a drink or
something to eat, (not over 35c worth
—for this too implies eating and
drinking were the primary purposes
of the visit) he joins his usual team.

Teams used to be limited only by
fraternity status and common inter-
ests, but now they are limited to
seven or eight by the size of the
new co-op tables. This size limita-
tion has considerably shrunk the
depth and breadth of Co-op discus-
sion.

The Course of Conversation. The
team member as he joins the group
must hold his peace until he ascer-
tains the topic under consideration.
To break the chain of conversation
by mentioning what Easy Ed or any
other professor did last period is
horribly gauche.

Conversation must proceed by free
association with no leadership or
restraint. A man’s contribution is
limited only by the number of sub-
jects he knows nothing about. A
typical session will begin by some-
one mentioning a coin he received in
his change, proceed to coin-collect-
ing, to counterfeiting, to bank tellers
we knew, to clods in general, and so
on until the team begins to break
up for its next class.

The End of the Period. The strict
protocol for this phase of the team

chaos by the transfer of the Co-op
to its new quarters. Previously a man
once he sat down was honor-bound
to stick with the team to the bitter
end. But differences in walking speed
have become noticeable over the
longer distance up the hill and some
people have to leave for class earlier
than others.

The antiseptic quality of the new
Co-op has given some people an in-
tense desire for fresh air as have the
new picture windows. Thus, some
rather striking concession to individ-
ualism have been made in the matter
of de parture time.

All in all, the new Co-op has
brought an end to the old Co-op and
its style of life. Instead of the old,
poorly lighted and somewhat dingy,
but intensely alive Co-op we have a
new, well-lighted building which
breeds men as sterile as their sur-
roundings. Faculty and students can-
not hide from each other in segre-
gated rooms. Nor can anyone find
enough darkness to hide from SIPA
delegates, pipe salesmen, or other
interlopers.

 

Christian, Gilmore Named
To Campus Organizations

The Executive Committee an-
nounced last night additional ap-
pointments to two of the university
student organizations. Meade Chris-
tian has been named to the Assimi-
lation Committee. Park Gilmore will
serve as Junior Student Member on
the University Committee on Ath-
leties.

Christian, a Phi Gam sophomore
from Richmond, was appointed to fill
the position left vacant by Kemp
Morton.

Gilmore, a Phi Delt junior from
South Fort Mitchell, Ky., has played
varsity baseball for two years, and
has been active in other campus or-

 

has been thrown into a terrible state

ganizations,

 

Singers and Dancers of Scotland will
be presented as the third event in
the local series. Founded and direct-
ed by Andrew Macpherson, Cale-
donia! has had a phenomenal rise to
success and popularity in Scotland.
The company appears regularly on
television in Great Britian and will
bring to American audiences a full
range of song and dance from all the
regions of Scotland.

The National Symphony Orches-
tra, which in the thirteen years it
has been making annual appearances
in Lexington has grown into one of
the great symphonic ensembles of
this country, will close the 1960-61
Series on February 20. With a
greatly expanded schedule of con-
certs in Washington and a tour into
southwestern states, the Orchestra’s
Lexington concerts will be one of
only three or four appearances in
Viriginia during the year. The Rock-
bridge Education Association will
again sponsor a student matinee.

The normal quota of adult mem-
bership was about 70 per cent sold
out in last spring’s pre-season re-
newal campaign. The fall drive is
now underway for enrollment of
adult, college, and public school
members and will continue through
Oct. 10.

Washington and Lee students will
find tickets available from a num-
ber of faculty members at conven-
ient locations throughout the cam-
pus, including Profs. Fishwick and
Stephenson at duPont Hall, Prof.
Coulling in the English Department,
Prof. Watt in Chemistry, Miss Louise
Moore at the Law School, Prof.
Stewart and Mr. Coleman at the Li-
brary, Prof. Wheeler at Newcomb
Hall, and Profs. Irwin and Drake
in Frech.

Latin American Excursion

By HARVEY ALLEN

Dr. Charles W. Turner of Wash-
ington and Lee and Professor Fred
Brunner of Columbia University led
a twelve-student group in a tour of
Latin America this past summer,
sponsored by the National Student
Association.

The group’s aims were to visit
other college groups and to pro-
mote better understanding among
the students of these Latin Amer-
ican countries. In fulfilling these
aims, the group of students was a
sort of traveling seminar, with par-
ticular attention given to the econ-
omy and politics of the countries
visited.

Leaving Miami, Florida, by plane
on June 22 the group covered
some 16,000 miles, visiting Peru,
Chile, Argentina, Uruguay, and
Brazil.

Capital cities were the main stop-
ping points in the countries visited,
as in the case of Lima, Peru, the
first stop on the tour, where the
group spent 12 days.

While in Lima, they visited schools
in the capital city, such as San
Marcos, the oldest in America. Be-
sides excursions to cathedrals and
other points of interest, they also
visited nearby Inca ruins, as well as
sugar and paper mills.

Dr. Turner noted that the pro-
fessors at San Marcos were very
interested to know in what way
and how much he and Professor
Brunner were paid, as many of
the professors there had to main-
tain several jobs to enable them
to keep teaching.

From Lima the group flew next to
Santiago, Chile. Here, as in many
other cases, the students lived in
homes in and around the city, pro-
viding unequalled opportunities to
live with the people of the country
that they were visiting and learn
more about them, first hand.

The Catholic University and the
University of Chile were the two
schools visited at Santiago, where
at the Law School of the Univer-
sity of Chile, the students were
holding elections, much like our
recent Mock Convention, but much
more serious. This election they
saw in progress had a national
flavor to it in that the candidates
running for offices, on the state and
local level, were tied in more
closely with the national election.

The group also had an opportunity,
while in Santiago, to visit the sites

 

of work being done in connection

 

Is Aged Faultfinding Valid?
Rush Week, Politics and Pledging

By HUGO HOOGENBOOM

For those of us who prefer sta-
bility in the order of things, the
columnists of the two editions of the
Ring-tum Phi must have provided a
great deal of pleasure. All of the
old stand-bys made their appear-
ance: politics, rush week and hell
week. Neither subject matter nor
attitude has changed.

The “majority” party was once
again attacked, and the freshmen
were led to believe that student poli-
tics were under the tyranny of a

| local Tammany Hall. This is pretty

 

far from the truth, since out of the
seven major offices, three were de-
cided by margins of less than twenty-
seven votes and a fourth was won
by the “minority party.” It was
generally conceded that better or-
ganization would have split the ticket
entirely. With elections contested as
closely as they were last year it
seems pretty futile to call for politi-
cal reform. The political system we
have now has served Washington
and Lee well in the past and should
do the same in the future.

Rush Week got its lumps again,
the main complaint being that the
long hectic week doesn’t give fresh-
men or upperclassmen enough time
to properly evaluate each other. This
is an admitted disadvantage, but it
hasn’t hurt in the past, and there are
compensating advantages: with rush
week over when school starts, every-
one is ready to attend to the business
of being educated without the strain
an extended rush week would cer-
tainly bring; there are enough extra-
curricular activities to lure fresh-

men away from their studies without
adding another; additionally, without
social fraternities, there is very lit-
tle social life for the freshman.
Under the present system, he has
some place to which he ean bring
dates, and contacts to get him dates as
soon as school starts. Finally, im-
mediate rush assimilates the fresh-
man into the whole student body,
rather than simply leaving him tied

to the freshman class.

Hell Week, Help Week, Greek
Week or whatever other euphemism
you may use for the week of initia-
tion has been subject to criticism
for so long that it’s hard to find any-
one in favor of it. Sadist frankly
admit that they enjoy giving fresh-
men hell and the super-sensitive find
the whole business “simply brutal.”
However, since physical injury is
strictly forbidden and the freshmen
are guaranteed an adequate amount
of sleep, the real problem of hell
week is sincere enforcement of the
rules. The greatest part of hell week
is aimed at humiliation of fresh-
men, and can anyone deny that to
instill humility in a freshman is to
do a virtuous thing? If anyone thinks
hell week is too tough, let him in-
vestigate the initiation rites of the
Australian Bushmen.

But this column is not intended
to carp at those giving advice to
fresh freshmen. It is laudable so to
do. But it was more fun several years
ago when a Ring-tum Phi columnist,
evidently annoyed by freshmen dur-
ing rush week, offered this advice to
the freshmen: “Go directly to Hell.
Do not pass go, do not collect $200.”

 

 

 

 
 
    
   
   
 

 
 

 
 

      
 

  
 
    
   
     
 

   
  
 

 

 

 

. Sihtaumone 2-26 15: RD To AIDE a
HERE SNOOPY! GOOD GRIEF! f
(LL THROW THE IF THERE'S VERTICAL (HEN YOURE
BALL AND You) | |/ ANYTHING I | HORIZONTAL!
CHASE IT! DON'T FEEL ,
OKAY 7 CMON, LIKE DOING, ITS
BOY! HERE, CHASING A
SNOOPY ! BALL! LS
4 Baise * ~ g
to ida fade i a a Ci an alli
SoMhe

 

 

 

    
  
    

 

 

 

Dr. Turner Leads Summer Tour;

Peru, Chile, Brazil Visited

with the Point Four program, such as
slum clearance projects. Dr. Tur-
ner noted that significant progress
was being made, but much more
still needed to be done.

From Santiago, the group flew
across the Andes to Buenos Aires,
capital city of Argentina. One of
the highlights of this stop was a
visit with President Frondizi, whom
they found to be quite willing to
answer their questions and supply
information. He did this to the point
of calling in some of his ministers
to answer detailed questions, par-
ticularly in the fields of economy
and politics.

Besides the usual visits to cathe-
drals, museums, and other points
of similar interest, the group also
paid a visit to a nearby ranch,
and saw the South American
gauchos, similar to our western
cowboys and cattle ranchers.

Montevideo, Uruguay, was the
next stop, where they found con-
siderable evidence of anti-U.S. feel-
ing and communism. Signs were
seen, even on large private homes,
reading, “Hail Castro!” The group
encountered, while shopping the
stores of the city, articles priced
very cheaply and a great deal of
trust on the part of shopkeepers.
Personal checks were accepted there
instead of the usual insistence on
traveler’s checks.

The flying tour winged next to
Sao Paulo, center of a growing in-
dustrial area in Brazil. Here the
group was impressed with the many
buildings of skyscraper proportions,
similar in many ways to Chicago.
They found the people very proud
of their native architecture, pastel
colored buildings and Frank Lloyd
Wright-type houses. The school
visited at this stop was Presbyterian
College Mackenzie, founded many
years ago by Presbyterian mission-
aries.

After a visit to the picturesque
Copacabana Beach, complete with
its bikini-clad bathers, the group
went on to Rio. There they met
Joe Sconce, a Washington and Lee
graduate, connected with the Point
Four program.

The final stop on the tour was
Brasilia, the fabulous new national
capital being constructed through
the combined efforts of some 50,-
000 workers.

After a flight over the Amazon
River and a brief stopover at the
Caracus, Venzuela, airport, the group
returned home, arriving on August 5.

 

Rush Week Changes
W&L Man Into Animal

By HENRY HARRELL

This is not a moralizing column. I
don’t want to write fiery editorials.
The fate of the Western world is
so far out of my hands that it loses
most of its interest for me. And I
don’t even care about the manifes-
tations of social decay detected in
almost all phases of Washington
and Lee life, at least by some former
columnists.

But one tradition at W&L bothers
me, or did until recently when I
went through it for the last time. I
refer, of course, to Rush Week. W&L
is supposed to be a school of gentle-
men. We have all sorts of hallowed
traditions and ideals. How is it that
for six days all restraints are thrown
aside, and we live like animals?
What is it that compells “dirty
rush,” the bitter rivalry between
fraternities, and most revolting of all,
the great scramble to get into the
dormitories?

For two years I have been a
member of IFC committees to
study Rush Week changes. The
first committee didn’t produce
much, but the second came up with
a very reasonable plan. which was
immediately rejected by the fra-
ternities with hardly any deliber-
ation, The proposal was to extend

(Continued on page 4)

Che Ring-tum Phi
Tuesday Edition

The Ring-tum Phi is published Tues-
day and Friday during the college year.
It is printed by the Journalism Labor-
Sordae, We sabington and Lee Uni-

T's ; né mailin ss is
si Lexington, va g address is Box

untered as second class matt Sep-
tember 20, 1946 at the Post Office, -
BST, Va., under the act of March

ational Advertising R as re:
The National Advertisers detvin tne
420 Madison Ave., New Tork, 3.Y,

a. g RINE Rosewel age
Business Manager......... sisicis H satlon thease
Editorial Board
Managing Editor.......
Assistant Managing

   
  
  

News Editor.....
Sports Editor...
Feature Editor.

ee Harvey Allen
~glgnny Butler, Bill
Copy Bditors.occ... ian : foan valor

Hunter Ss
Photography Editor mil Yonne

Associate Edito
2

THE RING-TUM PHI

Page 3

 

 

Gridiron Win

Over Colonels

Washington and Lee’s Generals
opened their 1960 football season
with a 21 to 6 victory over Centre
College. After a sluggish first half
the Generals came back strong in
the third and fourth quarters to
win over Centre for the second
straight year.

W&L’s versatile offense and
player depth proved to be the de-
cisive factor in the Generals’ win.
The offense seemed to open up in
the second half as the Generals
scored in both of the final stanzas.

W&L won the toss of the coin and
elected to receive. On the first plays
from scrimmage, the Generals were
unable to move, forcing Danny Blain
to punt to the Centre 25 yard line.
After taking over on offense, Centre’s
quarterback, Kern Alexander, passed
to halfback Kaelin for 40 yards, but
an offside penalty nullified the play.

The Generals then took over and
began to move offensively, scor-
ing eight minutes after the open-

 

Fullback Joe Hess pulls away from two Centre tacklers.

 

ing kickoff. After fullback Doug *—

Team, Students Need To Improve

Martin carried for seven yards,
quarterback Steve Suttle got the
first W&L touchdown of the day
on a “quick count” sneak play
which caught the Centre defense
completely off guard. Halfback
Bobby Funkhouser gained most of
the yardage in the scoring drive.

Centre was kept stationary until
the second quarter, but then quarter-
back Alexander and halfbacks Kaelin
and Gene Tassie spearheaded an 87-
yard scoring drive. An _ offsides
penalty against W&L gave Centre
new life during the drive, giving
them an important first down. Kaelin
carried the ball to pay dirt from
4 yards out, and the attempt for
a two-point conversion on a pass
play was broken up. W&L left the
field at halftime with an 8-6 lead.

The third quarter got off to a slow
start, but picked up in the closing
minutes when Skipper Smith took
a Centre punt on the W&L 14. How-
ever, the Generals were moved to
their 7 and a half yard line on a
penalty. Keesee moved the ball out
of the danger zone with a 23-yard
punt to the General’s 30. After two
ground plays and a 15-yard personal
foul penalty against Centre, Quarter-
back Suttle clicked on a 44-yard pass
play to sophomore halfback Charlie
Gummey for the second W&L touch-
down. A running attempt for the two
point conversion failed.

In the final quarter halfback
Richard Mosby intercepted an
Alexander pass and raced 26 yards
to the Centre 46. Doug Martin
burst through the Colonel line
and scooted the remaining 46 yards
for the third General score. Jim
Russ kicked the one point conver-
sion and the Generals led 21-6.

By alternating quarterbacks Sut-
tle, Robin Wood, and Phil Sharp,
the Generals had another drive going
late in the game, but Doug Martin’s
pass from the ten was intercepted in

(Continued on page 4)

Site ett ddd tetteg

White’s Music:
Store

(Opposite State Theater)
oy
Phonographs—Hi-Fi

 

etete

Expert Repair Service

5 W. Nelson St. Lexington, Va.

HO 3-3522

Se ee afeofe eae ate ate eae ae ate ate eae ate ate tea ote ate ate ade cdente te ote oteotenteteate
Seo oe oe ele tee oh ole dete oleohe dete che cdecte eee detected

Heletetetechobobobobtetedetetetetotbetetededess

PEE E ooo IE

THE NEW

White Top

Restaurant
*

A personal invitation
to the
Students

Try our delicious foods
Route 60 East

le oe ede odee ee tente ce tect ctete teste tect ctecte tect dete teed eee deter
Se Meee feode oe oe ole ode feo oheode tected tee ob detected nett

spobeobeteoteofedeoteteoteotedeobeteototeteetesteteotet

By STEVE GUILD

Weshineton end Lee’s perform-
ance on the gridiron last Saturday
proves et least two things. One,
we can have a winning team not by
chance but by the skill of the players.
And two, when a team has some
wins to back it up, then the attitude
of the student body improves pro-
portionately. It was these two things
that were noticed most at last week’s
game.

Not until a team gets on the field
in an actual game can anyone really
tell how they will perform despite
all the pres-season guessing. How-
ever, it seems that the guesing was
fairly accurate this year, for the
team was all it was supposed to be
with a few added surprises thrown
in. Suttle and Wood executed some
slick plays, using to advantage Bob
Funkhouser’s speed and _ agility.
Doug Martin and Tommy Keesee ex-
ceeded the evaluations of them in
advance reports, and Terry Fohs held
the line together admirably in his
position. Bob Payne was probably
the biggest surprise and best line-
man of the day.

Although there were a number of
strong men on the team, the Blue
and White as a whole was not as
organized as it should have been.
On the defensive side the Generals
were hard-hitting and fast, but of-
fensively they did not begin to shape
up until the late 3rd and early 4th
quarters when they made two touch-
down passes within five minutes. The
passing game was average as it was

 

For those extra pieces

of
FURNITURE

for your room
see our stock
before buying

oe
VARNER AND POLE

 

 

 

expected to be, being outshone in
this field by the Colonels. Centre’s
short screen passes were quite eTec-
tive in gaining needed first-down
yardage in several tight spots. The
ground game of the Generals which
has been concentrated upon more
than usual this year still needs some
work, especially in the mechanics of

| the plays. However, Coach Mc-
i Laughlin’s “Go-T” formation seemed

to work as well or even better than

, it did last year.

The second point that should be
made is that the attitude of the stu-
dent body toward football at Wash-
ington and Lee has changed consid-
erably in the last two years. Evi-
dence of this was the turnout for
the game Saturday. Granted this was
the first home game, but in the past
the stands have been hardly half
full. With last year’s improved recod
to bank on and the first game of
the season a victory, one can only
hope that the student body will
continue their interest and support
of the team.

Although there is still much work
to be done, Coach Mac and the Gen-
erals should be heartily congratu-
lated for their fine winning showing
last Saturday.

 

 

Baker
Ford Sales
BETTER DEALS

CLEARANCE
of lot for 1961 Models

~erer eer ee eee ee ee ee

NEW AND
USED CARS

Highway 60 East

Se Se Se Bee Se Bie Se Se Ste Se Me Be Be Be Me Me a he ste tte tte ta a te a he he a a a te a a He
Se a Me ithe Ba Ba Mate he Ba ta Ba ite te the a tte tha the ta te tte tte ha the ha a a tea Ha a a te He
Wat Mat Mgt Mat Mat Mat MGS MAS MES MES Gt MES MAS MAt MS PEt MGS Mat Mae AS MAS Tae Oe OO EE SS Se eee

es ses ee ee ee ee ee

 

 

 

 

Open a convenient student Checking account
TODAY

at

Rockbridge National Bank

Member Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation

 

 

 

 

 

 

ROCKBRIDGE LAUNDRY

and
Dry Cleaners

Shirts Transparently Wrapped
for Freshness
*
AGENTS:

Fraternities, Dorms and Co-op

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Bootmen Star

Washington and Lee University’s
soccer team opened its 1960 cam-
paign on a winning note by downing
Pfeiffer College of North Carolina
4 to 0.

The Generals showed yesterday
that they will again be a contender
for top honors in the state this year.
The score of yesterday’s game does
not give full justice to our soccer
team’s play, for most of the game
was played in Pfeiffer’s half of the
field. During the entire game, the
Generals’ goalies—Steve Paley,
Clark Valentiner, and Tom Green—
had to make only eight saves.

As the first quarter progressed,
(Continued on page 4)

The Coaches Corner

Coach Mac

Progress is wonderful. Two years
ago we were delirious when we
wrested a 1 point victory from Ran-
dolph-Macon. Saturday we were all
happy to win, but a mite-miffed not
to score at least one more touch-
down. I hope that we can continue
to expect our Generals to do well.

The win was a squad victory in
that 37 players were used, 33 of
them in the first quarter. All hands
contributed to the win, but the
“Gold” team which was used only
on defense performed particularly
well. My choice for the unsung hero
is Bobby Payne of the “Gold” unit
who made 7 tackles and was a real
hustler .

We are in the dark as to Dickin-
son’s relative strength as they have
not yet played a game. Last year they
beat Haverford 43 to 0 the week after

our game, but the rest of their season |:

was a “near miss” frustration as most
of their games were close, but no

 

 

 

 

 

X-C Wins

The Blue and White of Washington
and Lee defeated the Falcons of
Pfeiffer yesterday in a near shut-out.
The final score of the meet was 14-
48 which was only two points less
of a perfect score of 15-50. This was a
repeat of last year’s defeat over the
North Carolina team.

Six of the W&L harriers finished
before the first of the Pfeiffer men
came in. Taking first place in the
meet was Sophomore Mike Shank
with second place going to Mike
Brumby, one of the more promising
freshmen to come out this season.
Following Shank and Brumby were
third, fourth, and fifth placers Stoney

(Continued on page 4)

 

on Centre

- Generals Have a Victorious Weekend of Sports

Frosh Win 20-0

W&L’s Baby Generals opened the
1960 football season by decisively
trouncing the Tigers from Hargrave
Military Academy in a 20-0 victory.
The freshman team, which has been
called W&L’s strongest to date, dis-
played an impressive defensive line
and surprising backfield speed which
the Hargrave eleven never seriously
threatened.

Halfback Henry Sackett led the
freshman offense and _ personally
amassed more than a_ hundred
yards rushing in the first half
alone. Sachett who played his high
school ball at E. C. Glass in Lynch-
burg, revealed promising speed and
a polished change of pace as he
averaged better than eleven yards
per carry.

Fullback Syd Butler and halfback
Steve Yoffe provided added punch
to the W&L backfield. Quarterback

Jack McDaniel seemed to have com-
| plete control of the rather compli-
| cated “Go-T” offense, a system new

   

Coach McLaughlin

 

 

to most of the freshmen players.

The defensive line, led by guard,
Charlie Savage; center, Mike Shef-
fey; and reinforced by linebacker

| Smitzie Kidd, held the hapless Tigers

to minus yardage.

Sackett scored two of the Baby
Generals’ three touchdowns, the first
coming on a 4-yard plunge early in
the first quarter, and the second on

|a similar play in one of the final
| seconds

of the game. The third
quarter tally came with a pass from

| McDaniel to Yoffe.

Also this week the co-captains

© of the freshman team were elected.

They are quarterbacks Henry Sack-
ett and John McDaniels. They will
be leading the team for the rest of

'| the season in their efforts to win.

The frosh will play Woodberry
Forest this Friday on Wilson Field.

 

 

 

 

 

; ; taal di ei itl ia a a i i ala!
more wins came their way. We know | 4
that they will be tough. As it will be ¢ We Feature :
an away game for us, we will see * *
what sort of road team we have. Wish
*
ci SEALTEST
y . *
ee * Dairy Products *
* ”
ee a3
: To get the best get Sealtest :
‘ . : =A
* over twenty different products in addition to =
TETLOW : delicious Sealtest ice cream *
a
- t Block and Crushed Ice :
TV Service ; Your favorite mixes—Ice Cold :
+ +
* * +
: ° . :
%
221 S. Main HO 3-2841 t Maple-Rock Distributors, Inc. E
+ = +
* Phone HO 3-2168 +
seotetntntntenfesteontntesteteoenteteoeofogngentnteteofsgenteteofesgntentefeoeofenentestoeofntenteogntentestefeofesfoe
FRENCH 1-2

Objectives of Adjectives

Prof. Amour

 

A broad study of the adjective bon in syntax with bon soir, bon ami and
bon grooming. Lecture on bon grooming with ‘Vaseline’ Hair Tonic
illustrating the fact that ‘Vaseline’ Hair Tonic replaces oil that water
removes. Examination of adverse effects on hair resulting from drying
action of water compounded by hair creams and alcohol tonics. Exhibi-
tion of how bad grooming puts you out of context with the opposite
sex. Special emphasis on how ‘Vaseline’ Hair Tonic keeps hair neater
longer and attracts women as Paris does tourists. Homework drills on
Saturday evenings stressing plurals rather than singulars. Course aims
at getting along in any language . . . especially the language of love.

Jeune filles prefer hommes who use
‘Vaseline’ Hair Tonic for bon grooming!

VeTyalllits

TRADE MARK

al

01)

In the bottle and on your hair
the difference is clearly there!

 

 

 

| i
| Grooms and Conditions |
| Waie...the Watwrat Way |

i |
| | ;
| Checks Ory Scalpan@ | |
Loose Oandruff 8
| . iy
|
Cotstenouse Pomp Hae j

‘VASELINE' IS A REGISTERED TRADEMARK OF, CHESEBROUGH-POND'S INC.
 

 

 

Page 4

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

Spencer Elected By Geologists

(Continued from page 1)

Mountains.

President of the group for 1960-61
will be George Darrow, petroleum
geologist of Billings, Mont. Its past
president is Dr. William Bonino of
Princeton University.

One of the special interests of the
Yellowstone-Bighorn Association is

 

Lyles Praises Soccer Squad
(Continued from page 3)

the varsity’s play began to pick
up from its slow start. With four
minutes to go in the first quarter,
Jim Starkey scored the first goal
after a wild scramble for the ball
in front of the Pfeiffer goal.

The Generals added two more goals
in the second quarter. With three
minutes just gone in the quarter
Steve Hawkins found himself wide
open for a shot to make the score
2 to 0. Four minutes later co-captain
Dave Knight took a cross pass from
Wick Hollingshead to add another
score. The first half came to an end
with Washington and Lee leading
3 to 0.

There was no scoring in the third
quarter, but Bob Pagano got the
fourth and last goal after five minutes
had passed in the fourth period.
Pagano scored with a sharp boot on
a free kick.

After the game, Coach Joe Lyles
said, “I was very pleased with the
boys, but naturally there is plenty
of room for improvement. That
first of the season is the hardest
one to get, but I feel we are now
on the way to a successful season.
The Pfeiffer team should not be
underestimated, for they are well
coached.” Lyles singled out Dun-
lop Ecker, Steve Hawkins, co-
captain Frank Smith, and Jim
Starkey for their fine play in yes-

 

a program of instruction in field
study for undergraduate geology
students. Dr. Spencer has spent two
of the past three summers in Mon-
tana, conducting research in the
Madison Range under a grant from
the National Science Foundation.
He has been assisted in his work by
several Washington and Lee students
majoring in geology.

 

NOTICE

There will be a meeting for all
freshmen and upperclassmen inter-
ested in joining the W&L Debate
Council at 7:15 p.m. Thursday in
Payne 32.

 

Parents’ Weekend
(Continued from page 1)

other on inflation, were so popular
that there will be three this year
rather than two.

Last year there were seven
hundred and fifty-eight registered
guests and parents representing
three hundred and fifty-six stu-
dents. A larger crowd is expected
this year.

The annual Parents’ Weekend is
being held a week earlier than usual
in hopes that the weather will be
milder than usual. Parking in the
vicinity of the campus will constitute
a serious problem. The sponsors of
Parents’ Weekend expect full co-
operation from all members of the
student body in this respect.

 

 

 

i ee

WED.-THURS.

 

    
 

DARRYL F.ZANUCK

Productions, inc.

ULES Ty

- ORSON WELLES «DIANE VARS

 
 
  

 

 

 

 

 

terday’s game. DEAN STOCKWELL

: BRADFORD DILLMAN

The next soccer game is on October ‘imal

3, against Randolph-Macon at their oscene, sue

home field. nero
STANLEY WARNER

ee BROWN’S
LEXINGTON, VA.
CLEANING
LAST TIMES TODAY WORKS
ees We call for

J M-G-M presents
Natalie Robert
WOOD - WAGNER

in AN AVON PRODUCTION

“ALL THE FINE
YOUNG CANNIBALS”
Susan George

KOHNER - HAMILTON
we Pearl BAILEY sss

 

 

STARTS WED.
Wednesday Matinee
1:30 and 4 p.m.
Evening (1 show) 8 p.m.

 

 

 

Radio Hospital

*
Radio, TV, Phonograph
Sales and Service

*

HO 3-3531

 

 

 

 

 

The First National Bank

of Lexington
*
has special checking accounts

for students

 

and deliver
HO 3-2013 14 Randolph St.

 

 

 

Green Valley Motel

One Mile North on
U. S. Highway No. ll

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA
HO 3-2195

 

 

 

Mee he he oe ese ne ae ae ae eae whe oe aha ole he oe eons

%
2
IDEAL :
BARBER SHOP ;
*

*

ee ee oe ee Ff

QUICK SERVICE

 

 

we ihe le Me te Be Be Be Me Bad
www eS Se Se ee

g
-

ortedeobobtesteceobetedectgeteotedeotobetetestaaeoe

 

Executive Committee
(Continued from page 1)
When a violation is reported to a
committeeman, he goes immediately
to the president of the student body.
The two men are required to inves-
tigate the evidence surrounding the
case. If they deem the evidence suf-
ficient to warrant a trial, the stand-
ing Committee is summoned and a
simple majority vote by the Commit-
tee may bring the accused to trial.
Those accused who are brought be-
fore the Committee may exercise
the option to leave school rather than
stand trial. The details surround-
ing the option and the trial were
explained in last Friday’s edition.

 

Sickness Hurts X-C Team
(Continued from page 3)
Duffey, Norman Youngblood, and

Williams, respectively.

The cross-country team has been
hurt the last few days by a great
amount of sickness and consequently
some of the members were not able
to run to their full capacity. How-
ever, they should be in good shape
for next week’s meet with Randolph-
Macon at Ashland.

The team’s next home meet will
be Oct. 8 with Hampden-Sydney in
conjunction with the Homecomings

 

Harrell On Rush Week

(Continued from page 2)

Rush Week until after Thanksgiv-
ing holidays, thus eliminating the
pressure and much of the unpleas-
antness from our six day rushing.

A good many boys are going de-
ferred rush this year, more than
ever before, and to me this is signif-
icant. The Commons is partly re-
sponsible, but from personal impres-
sions I gather that our rushing pro-
cedures are the main reason.

As for the upperclassmen, I talked
with a good many while we were
waiting to push and shove our way
up into the dorms. The invarible
reaction was “This is really lousy,”
or “I'll be glad when rush is over
and we can all go back to being
friends.”

Everyone hates it, no one does any-
thing about it. Perhaps this year
the IFC can make some changes and
get fraternities to consent. At least
something might be done about the
methods of upperclassmen entering
the dorms. But until something is
changed, Rush Week will limp along,
an unfortunately real and unneces-
sarily unpleasant part of W&L.

Footballers Wrap Up Game

(Continued from page 3)

end zone for an automatic touch-
back. The main play in this drive was
a 20-yard pass from Sharp to Jim
Russ. This was the last main drive
of the game and with the blowing of
the final whistle the Generals wrap-
ped their first win of the sea-
son.

 

YARDSTICK

Centre W&L
First Downs 14 17
Rushing yardage ........ 121 283
Passing Yardage ........ 85 oa
PORE cssiiisissiscncenne 10-21 2-5
Passes intercepted by 1 1
PUN iieavioiius 6-40.4 3-31.2
Fumbles lost ................ 0 0
Yards penalized .......... 60 80

 

Ted’s Steak House

Finest Foods
Choice Meats

Ww
SUNDAY DINNERS

Route 60 Buena Vista

 

football game. The harriers were de-
feated last year by the H-S Tigers.

 

PrrerssreessseeesaeerEseEeseEEeeeeTe Hear eEeeedey

“Your Campus Neighbors”

te
= z ; $
= Shirt Service as You Like it %
+ 4
‘ Quality Cleaning and Pressing ;
5 UNIVERSITY CLEANERS :
: HO 3-362 *
- :
% * %

%
‘ ot

%
% %
%
% ‘.

eee he oe nfo rhe ale ale ale ale ole ole ole ole nfo ate ate see hese she she ake ake ae ale aes fe of of ne ae ake ae ae oe ae ae ofa ofeofe of fe

 

 

 

 

The Southern Inn

Cordially invites you to make this your headquarters for good food
Here you get the best food for the most reasonable prices

Our Specialties:
Steaks, Chicken, Country Ham, and the best sandwiches

in town

Meet your friends here

 

 

 

 

LEGER EEE EET EE

sr

  
   

:
=
:

ae a ie is

Sain arb.

STUDENT ACCOUNTS
INVITED HERE

Regular or Special Accounts

The Peoples National Bank

101 South Main Street
Lexington, Virginia

Member Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation

i. %

footnoted seoteoteteototeteotetestestetesteteotest

ee eer eee ee eee eee ee ee ee mee Ne se rene ene ae eae oe oe oe fe ne oe fe ae sete feo

speletetetebebebobededegobbetetetetetetetbebobotulesedetibtededededottetotedetedetetetotons

 

 

 

VARSITY
BILLIARD
ACADEMY

Catering

To Students

Corner of

Washington and Jefferson

 

 

 

 

 

| Tareyton has
|

Dual Filter

does

Filters for

flavor
—finest flavor by far!

the taste—

it!

 
 

é a
s
oe

NEW DUAL FILTER Tan

a a “ON e
Product of She Ansrioan Sibacer€ompany — Jubaceo is our middle name ©A. 7. co.

 
 
   

 

 

AL FILTER

HERE’S HOW THE DUAL FILTER DOES IT:

1. It combines a unique inner filter of ACTIVATED CHARCOAL
definitely proved to make the taste of a cigarette mild and smooth...

2. with a pure white outer filter. Together they select and balance
the flavor elements in the smoke. Tareyton’s flavor-balance gives
you the best taste of the best tobaccos,

eyton

  
      
  

 

 
 

 

FRIDAY
Edition

Che King-tum Ph

Washington and Lee Semi-Weekly Newspaper

Ack -

vol Ol

* 4318.15°
Fsi~

o.e

FRIDAY
Edition

 

Volume LXI

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA, SEPTEMBER 30, 1960

Number 5

 

 

Noell for

Bill Noell

 

Lexington Police Ordered
To Cover W&L Games

The Attorney General of Virginia,
A. S. Harrison, Jr., held Thursday
that the Town of Lexington must be
responsible for the maintenance of
order at W&L athletic events unless
the school gets the Circuit Court to
appoint a special police.

Harrison made the decision in re-
ply to the question of C. S. Glasgow,
Lexington town attorney.

Under Virginia law, Harrison said,
town police have the duty of pre-
serving good law and order within
the city limits.

Dr. Fred Cole

To Present
Freeman Award

Presentation of the Douglas South-
hall Freeman Award for public serv-
ice through radio journalism will be
the highlight of the fall meeting in
Roanoke Saturday, of Virginia As-
sociated Press Broadcasters at Hotel
Patrick Henry.

Dr. Fred Carrington Cole, presi-
dent of Washington and Lee Univer-
sity, will make the presentation at
a luncheon at 1 p.m. The winner of
the contest, judged this year by
North Carolina stations, has not yet
been announced. The award is
named in honor of Dr. Freeman,
Richmond historian and editor, who
was one of the first radio news
commentators in America.

Walter Crockett, president of the
VAPB and news director of WCYB
and WCYB-TV in Bristol, will hold
a pre-convention meeting Friday
night of a special committee named
to arrange a seminar for radio news-
men at Washington and Lee. Profes-
sors O. W. Riegel and John Jen-
nings of the W&L journalism faculty
will meet with the group. Two pre-

 

vious seminars have been held at}

W&L. John Patterson of WDBJ,
Roanoke, and Wip Robinson of
WSVA, Harrisonburg, are co-chair-
men of the seminar committee.
The highlight of the afternoon
session will be profitable operation of
a top-quality news program. Frank

 

ndependents To Back
Frosh EC

Bill Noell, from Bluefield, W. Va.,

- was named by the Independent Party
_ Thursday night to carry its stand-

ard in the upcoming election for
freshman Executive Committeeman.

The election has been tentatively
set for Oct. 17. It will fill the 12th
seat on the EC, the body which acts
as a general overseer of student
activities, and also as a judicial body
for honor violations. The other 11
members were elected in the spring.

Noell, who did not pledge a fra-
ternity during regular rush week,
expects to go through deferred rush.

Party chairman Bill Johnston
noted, “Bill was given strong sup-
port in last Wednesday’s meeting of
freshmen not in fraternities.”

Noell’s nomination came Thursday
night after a caucus of the eight In-
dependent houses, together with non-
fraternity representatives, at the
Kappa Sig house. Originally there
were eight candidates for the nom-

* ination.

Noell was one of the two interna-
tional vice presidents of Key Club
International during his senior year
at Bluefield High School. He also
gave the keynote address at this sum-
mer’s international convention.

He was president of the student
body and valedictorian of his class.

Besides being president of the
junior class, he headed the local
chapters of the National Thespians
and the National Forensic Society.
He was a member of the National
Honor Society.

Noell won first place in the state
Voice of Democracy speaking com-
petition, and also gave the keynote
address at Boys State.

He was president of the youth
group in Bluestone Presbytery.

He also played golf and tennis
while in high school. At W&L he
plans to go out for the debate team
and spring sports.

The Independent Party is com-
posed of the following houses: Delt,
Kappa Sig, Lambda Chi, PEP, Phi
Gam, Phi Psi, Pi Kap, and Sig Ep.

The freshman class representative
to the student Executive Commit-
tee will be elected Monday, Oct. 17,
in Lee Chapel.

Two candidates, one from the Uni-
versity Party and one from the In-
dependent Party will be formally
nominated during the first portion
of the Oct. 17 meeting. After the
nomination, freshmen will choose
their representative by secret ballot.

The floor will be open for nomi-
nations other than the candidates
who will be advanced by the two
student parties, but the contest will
lie between the two men with formal
backing, officials say.

The two parties are expected to
reveal the names of their proposed
candidates early in October, perhaps
next week, so that the campaigning
may begin.

In last year’s contest, Tom Rains,
a KA from Atlanta, Ga., was elected
to the freshman post in a run-off
election with Meade Christian, a
Phi Gam from Richmond, Va.

 

Notice

Members of the Dance Board will
be in the Student Union on Wednes-
days and Thursdays to collect money

Koehler, of WDBJ, Roanoke, will | still outstanding on Dance Plans.

moderate the panel.

Payment is due by Oct. 15.

 

Individual Pictures Schedule

Individual pictures for the class sections of The Calyx will be taken
starting Oct. 4. Each student should report to Borthwick Studio (across
from State Theater) from 1:30 p.m.— 5p.m. on the day assigned to his fra-
ternity. Law School and non-fraternity men’s pictures will be taken as

scheduled below.

 

  
 

  
  
 
   

TB OO Fi si suiiiasiinuas canna Tuesday October 4 | |
2 Wednesday, October 5}
ees ee Thursday, October 6)
4. &. A. ..Monday, October 10
5. Kappa Sigma.............. © Gini ieee Tuesday, October 11
FR Gio sisitiisiiennnnannesnincnussane: Wednesday, October
FP Piao iiicssisisienenineioncaunenoies wnce Thursday, October 13
Be Oe i i a Friday, October 14
9. Phi Gam Monday, October 17
TE PE AG Pibcssiiihiisdnniciccnncins ‘range Tuesday, October 18
Fe, NE in isan mst Wednesday, October 19
12. Pi KA Thursday, October 20
13. sienna Friday, October 21
SE A a a Monday October 24
Se IE Gh aiics siissneoiiasnaaniicnionce ....Tuesday, October 25
46 BE Fi siisissisisariiisanananncniian Wednesday, October 26
Se ig ss sh bone da Thursday, October 27
18 +e iiiaseedie Gale co nh ars Monday, October 31
De Fi eiaticnieianiiannndinnsGbc cane cia Tuesday, November 1
20 Fis Wednesday, November 2

12]}

Smathers Comin

 

Steve Danzansky, head cheerlead-
er, announces that numerous changes
have been made in the W&L cheer-
leaders and Pep Band this year.

Danzansky, a ZBT senior from
Washington, D.C. will join with eight
other students to undertake the
cheerleading responsibilities. Juniors
Jay Green and Dick Starmn, Sopho-
more Randy Cole, and Freshmen
Barry Green, Dave Harrison, Jack
Mitchell, Mal Freeman, and Scot
Peace will complete the squad.

This fall, the cheerleaders are
planning to circulate among the
students mimeographed sheets with
all of the football cheers. This should
help the freshmen as well as the
upperclassmen to become better ac-
quainted with the cheers. Danzan-
sky feels that this should promote
more spirit at the games.

Mike Herndon, a Pi Phi, has been
named by Danzansky as the new
student leader of the Pep Band.
Herndon estimates that there will be
as many as twenty-five instruments
in the Pep Band this year.

In summing up his aspirations for
the coming year, Danzansky said,
“the enthusiasm shown by the stu-
dents at last year’s Mock Conven-

The Young Republicans Club of
Washington and Lee held its first
meeting Wednesday evening in the
student union. The keynote speaker
for the evening was John Dalton,
son of Federal District Court Judge
Ted Dalton, and a prominent Radford
lawyer himself.

Also on hand for the kick-off meet-
ing was John Downey, state vice

me.

 

Cheerleaders during practice session in gym.

Herndon Leads Pep Band;
Nine Cheerleaders Chosen

 

Republicans Phillips, Dalton, Welsh, Cook and Downey

 
   

tion has proven that W&L can gen-
erate spirit. Many people both on
and off the field have put in a lot of
work and need your support this
year.”

Danzansky added that although
the student support at our first foot-

(Continued on page 4)

Frosh To Hear
Dr. Gaines

Dr. Francis P. Gaines, Chancellor
of the University, will speak to the
special freshman assembly Tuesday,
October 4, in Lee Chapel at 7:15 p.m.

Dr. Gaines is scheduled to speak
on the “History of Washington and
Lee University.” The assembly is
another in a series of the universi-
ty’s freshman orientation program.
To date they have heard talks by
President Fred C. Cole, Dean W.
W. Pusey and Dean David Sprunt.

Dr. Gaines retired as president of
Washington and Lee in September,
1959. He is a graduate of the Uni-
versity of Richmond and holds de-
grees from many of the nation’s
leading colleges and universities.

 

chairman of the Young Republicans
Federation of Virginia.

W&L Officers

Officers were elected for the W&L
Club. Dave Cook, Delt senior was
chosen president; Phyz Lemmon,

Delt senior law student, was elected
vice president; Brent Wells, Beta
and Edge

sophomore, secretary;

 

ae

—Staff Photo by Renshaw

Senator George A. Smathers of
Florida, one of the most outstanding
legislators in Congress, will be in
Lexington on Thursday, Oct. 20 to
promote the candidacy of Sen. John
IF. Kennedy for the presidency.

Smathers heads up the campaign
in the South for the Massachusetts
senator and his running mate, Lyn-
don B. Johnson. Smathers plans to
address Lexington Democrats and
Kennedy supporters at a luncheon
here.

“If there is considerable student
support and potential attendance,”
according to Mr. C. H. Davidson,
local attorney and Democratic chair-
man for this area, “We would like
to have the luncheon in Evans
Dining Hall (the Commons). This
will, however, depend upon the stu-
dent Democratic organization in the
university.”

Smathers will arrive in Lexington
after an address at Charlottesville
and will journey to Roanoke after his
appearance here.

The Washington and Lee Univer-
sity branch of the “Students for
Kennedy and Johnson” club will hold
its organizational rally on Tuesday,
October 4, at 7:30 p.m. in the Stu-
dent Union Building.

 

g To Lexington

| Students For Kennedy, Johnson
Plan To Organize On Tuesday

  

George A. Smathers, United States
Senator from Florida

The student coordinator for the
group, Jerry Hyatt, a Delt junior,
says that the primary purpose of
the group will be to promote the
candidacy of Senator John F. Ken-
nedy for President of the United
States. The organization also hopes to
provide an outlet for the expression
of student political beliefs and en-
courage student interest and partici-
pation in national affairs on a non-
partisan basis.

All students are cordially invited
to attend this organizational rally.

 

With the first few notes of the
“Patterns” theme song, last Wednes-
day night at 8:05, Radio Washington
and Lee began its first full academic
year of broadcasting.

Beginning with Monday night’s
“Pro Musica,” Radio W&L will be
heard every Monday through Thurs-
day night, from 8:05 until 9:00 p.m.,
over radio station WREL.

“Pro Musica,” featuring classical
music, is produced by Pete Lynn, Pi
Kappa Phi junior from Lynchburg,
Va. Dick Kelley is his assistant pro-
ducer, with the balance of the staff
made up of Bruce Chosney and Pete
Blakeslee.

Tuesday night’s show is “Concert,”
which plays music of a semi-classical
variety, and is produced by Steve
Guild, Kappa Sigma junior from
Oaklahoma City, Okla. Robert Mott-
ley is the assistant producer, aided
by staff members Jim Whelihan,
Howard Schramm, and John Dixon.

The popular and jazz presentation
of Radio W&L is “Patterns,” heard

 

Cook Heads Republican Club

Jackson, SAE sophomore, treasurer.

Cook says the group will attempt
to get eligible student voters to get
absentee ballots from home and to
vote for Nixon.

The group will also cooperate with
the Lexington Republican organiza-
tion headed by Hank Oder, a local
lawyer and unsucessful candidate for
the congressional seat from this dis-
trict in 1958. The work with the
town group will consist of canvass-
ing the town to get people out to
the polls.

Dalton, in his speech, mentioned
that W&L students have long been
ranking figures in the Young Repub-
licen organization. A student here
held the position of vice chairman-
ship in the Virginia Young Repub-
| lican Federation. Other colleges in

 

|| the Old Dominion which have Re-

| publican organizations include: Wil-

i liam and Mary College, Williams-

burg, W&M Norfolk Division; Hol-
lins College; Radford College, Rad-
ford; University of Virginia, Char-
lottesville; Roanoke College, Salem;
| end Bridgewater College.

Dalton went on to explain the is-
|

 

 

| sues in the campaign and to give ex-
amples of how other colleges have
| aided in previous elections.

Mr. Downey also spoke on the
significance of W&L in the coming
campaign.
ss turday, Oct. 1, the Young Re-
| publican convention will convene at
|the University of Virginia at 12
| noon. All interested students are in-
| vited to attend.

The next meeting of the WL
| GOPers will be held Tuesday, Oct.

4 at 7 p.m.

 

 

 

Pro Musica Is First Program

WREL Carries First Full Year
Of Radio Washington And Lee

every Wednesday night, and is pro-
duced by Harvey Allen, Kappa Sig-
ma senior from Fort Worth, Texas.
Tommy Goar and Clarence Renshaw
complete the Wednesday night staff.

Beginning on November 17, “Ka-
leidoscope” will be heard on Thurs-
day nights, offering the unusual,
different, and documentary type pro-
grams of the series. It will be pro-
duced by Bob Holley, Delta Upsi-
lon senior from Moorestown, New
Jersey. Staff members include Dick
Goode, Jon Peterson, Steve Tomasek,
Paul Gilbert, Fred Krall, and Al
Evkes.

Between now and November 17,
the regular Friday night jazz presen-
tation of Radio W&L, “Jazz Echoes,”
will be heard on Thursday nights.
“Jazz Echoes” is produced by Nick
Denton, Phi Kappa Psi sophomore
from Chevy Chase, Md. Denton is
assisted by staff members Vick Las-
seter and Jim Wallenstein.

Art Portnoy, Zeta Beta Tau soph-
omore from Warrenton, Va., heads
the general staff announcers for
Radio W&L, composed of the general
staff members from all five shows.

Engineering of Radio W&L pro-
grams is under the direction of
Skip Rhule, Kappa Sigma senior
from Anderson, South Carolina.

 

Homecomings

Plans Are Set

The annual Washington and Lee
Homecoming Weekend will begin
this year with a meeting of the
alumni board of trustees on Friday,
Oct. 7 at 2 p.m. Friday evening,
a student pep rally held under the
auspices of the Varsity Club will be
held in Doremus Gymnasium. The
annual freshman parade will begin in
the gym and will continue through
the streets of the town. Homecoming
Queen candidates from the frater-
nities will lead the parade.

The fraternity decoration contest
will again be held with viewing of
the displays by the judges on Fri-
day night and again on Saturday.
Prizes that will be awarded to the
best entries will be announced at
the game on Saturday. Last year,
the decorations contest was won by
the Delts. Also, a trophy will be
awarded to the fraternity showing
the most spirit at Saturday’s game.
This was won last year by the Phi
Gams.

At 9 a.m. Saturday morning regis-
tration will begin for returning
W&L alumni. A morning coffee hour
will be held for the alumni in Leti-
tia Pate Evans Dining Hall at 10
o'clock. This will be sponsored by
the alumni association.

The game will begin at 2 p.m.

(Continued on page 4)
 

Page 2

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

Che KRing-tum Phi

Friday Edition

Member of Virginia Intercollegiate Press Association

 

A Question

Although we are resolved that the Washington and Lee

“Fighting Five Star Generals”

can only meet unprecidented

success, we feel somewhat dismayed about an unreasonable
demand made upon the dates, acquaintances and family of
members of the student body by the athletic complex.

Granting that inflation is here to stay, we of Washington
and Lee—pillar of un-subsidized athletics—still condemn the
$2.00 admission price to our football games. This is a 100
per cent increase over the last two years.

Our form of athletics has drawn much criticism, yet it has
stood fast, a bulwark of that mode of competition which best
meets the requirements of an academic community. It appears,
however, that this status quo is equally unbearable. Once again
our eyes are on the bowls, rather than Wilson Field, and “big
business” and its emanations are creeping onto the gridiron
amid the almost forgotten—now reappearing shouts of a

pleased crowd.

Is this to be the price of a successful football season at
W&L? If so, shell out ‘‘minks’’ and be content! The team will
appear in new uniforms; the traveling accommodations will be
much more suitable; and once again will be paying “‘contem-
porary” fees to see “contemporary” football. Yet, let us not
forget those who will walk away dismayed or indigent from
the three grey ticket offices back up the foot bridge leaving

behind our colossus.

 

A Reminder

Perhaps it is worth remembering that The Administration
Committee of the Faculty in conjunction with the Board of
Trustees has declared alien to university relations any societies,
clubs or fraternities which engage in the practice of physical or

mental abuse.

In the immediate past this enforcement has been rigid.
We propose that in the immediate future any breach of this
regulation will be met with severe action.

 

 

Bushwacking With Luthy

No Football Game, And Combo
Are Saturday Night Problems

By TOM LUTHY

With the football team on the road |

and Big Joe Hatchett’s Bad Axe
combo playing at the Hungry Hill

dares to bring a date into our thriv-
ing metropolis will probably find
himself at a momentary loss for
ideas as to good, clean fun on a
Saturday night.

Then comes the startling revela-
tion—why not take in a Hollywood
thriller. The friendly townsfolk will
inevitably get your money anyway,
so it’s up the street or around the
corner to the flick.

No need to consult last week’s
copy of The Rockbridge County
News for the listings. A two minute
walk through town will disclose the
present headliners. Since the abund-
ance of theaters in Lexington offers
a wide range of choice, I heartily
recommend either the State (Stanley
Warner’s attempt to monopolize Lex-
ington) or the Lyric (more com-
monly known to all as the arm
pit).

Prices are still comparatively
low. Apparently the Virginia legis-
lature forgot to pass a tax for
movies this summer.

 

Hollywood producers have been
claiming that their new lines of pic-
tures will provide a higher degree
of adult entertainment, that is, if the

mixer this weekend, anyone who! State board of censors hasn’t pre-

viously cut out some of the more
interesting sequences.

The facts should be clear, however.
With such fine films as Murder, Inc.,
All the Fine Young Cannibals, and
Breakout being featured, how can
one resist? In my madness I would
also suggest that you attend a mati-
nee so that while in the lobby “get-
ting a treat,” the exit stands readily
accessible, if you are not 99 and
44/100 per cent satisfied. With a
burst of that seven-minute mile
speed, you can still make it to the
ABC store before it closes.

Following another monetary out-
lay, you'll probably find a crimson
traffic summons on your car, now
so vividly marked for the town
constables by those little blue tags.

Your day is then complete, having
been buffeted on all sides from vary-
ing factors of our snug little village,

As you travel in the car, you be-
gin to wonder if your brainstorm
about going to the movies was so
good after all!

 

Students Seem To Distrust
W&L’s Disciplinary Groups

By JIM VANN
Friday Columnist

From listening to much of the
talk that flows around the student
. body, one can
hardly help sens-
ing that the ma-
jority of the
Washington and
Lee students,
-_ whether’ through
ignorance or mis-
information, re-
gard the various
) disciplinary com-
- mittees here as
* little more than

arbitrary gestapo-

Vann
es. The average attitude toward the
various committees—from the Exec-
utive Committee on down—would
seem to be one of fear and, indeed
distrust.

Recently, it has been my exper-
ience to talk with several groups
among the Freshman class in an at-
tempt to illucidate the various as-
pects of the Honor System and ex-
plain the functions of the E.C. Al-
most without fail, the questions that
were asked me were of such a na-
ture as to indicate that the person
asking regarded the E.C. as an all-
knowing, all-reaching goon squad
that was out to badger and bully the
Student Body into submission. Un-
fortunately, this attitude isn’t con-
fined only to the freshmen, and all-
to-many upperclassmen tend to re-
gard these committees, especially

 

Fulbright Exchange Students
Hold Varied Opinions on W&L

By W&L News Service

Washington and Lee University’s
three foreign exchange students
agree on three major points, but
they view nearly everything else
about their new lives quite different-
ly.

They agree that the United States
is like descriptions in books they
have read, that faculty-student re-
lations at Washington and Lee are
better than in their native countries
and that students should not be

forced to attend classes.

The three students, Anthony An-
toniades of Thessalonika, Greece;
Peter Turk of Bad Godesberg, Ger-
many; and Rienhard Hroch of Salz-
burg, Austria, are studying at Wash-
ington and Lee this year under the
auspices of the Fulbright Commis-
sion.

Their friendly disagreement over
so many of their new experiences
seems to stem from differences in
their educations and customs and
traditions in their home countries.

Traveled 15,000 Miles
The three students traveled a
combined total of more than 15,000
miles for their year’s study at Wash-
ington and Lee. Each of them came
by ship and docked in New York
City nearly a month ago.

Turk, 23, learned to speak Eng-
lish four years ago and is fluent in
three other languages. Antoniades,
20, gained his speaking and writing
knowledge of English some seven
years ago. Hroch has known our
language for five years. He is also

 

able to converse or write in French,

Dislike Absences Limit

All three of the Fulbright win-
ners made particular reference to
Washington and Lee’s system of
limited absences. Each of them felt
that forced study tended to make the
student resent classroom activity.
They noted that they are used to
unlimited absences from their lec-
ture sessions which often include as
many as 500 students for one lec-
ture. They felt that the European
system allows for more individual
intellectual achievement than does
the system used by many American
colleges and universities.

The size of the classes in Greece,
Germany and Austria caused the
foreign exchange students to com-
ment on faculty-student relations
here.

Antoniades

Anthony Antoniades, who prefers
to be called “Tony,” is the only one
of the three who will remain in the
United States for a complete col-
lege education. He is enrolled in
Washington and Lee’s sophomore

 

class. He expects to stay here for
at least one more year after this
one before transferring to a school
of engineering for completion of his
work in mechanical engineering.
This year, Antoniades is taking
courses in mathematics, engineering,
physics, economics and English.

Turk

Turk is taking a year’s leave of
absence from his medical studies in
Germany. His year at Washington
and Lee is being devoted to “an
education that will give me a more
general knowledge outside of the
field of medicine.” He is taking
courses in English literature, philoso-
phy, history and sociology.

When he returns to Germany he
will have two more years of medical
study.

Hroch

Hroch, who is interested in the
study of law, has the same idea
as Turk for his stay at Washington
and Lee. He will resume his law
studies upon his return to Salzburg.

 

the E.C., with this quizzical suspi-
cion. Questions such as, “How can
you expect me to report my best
friend for a violation” are heard
much too often.

The fundamental trouble here is
that too many persons have failed
to approach the question in its true
light and are concerned with a prob-
lem that really needn’t be a prob-
lem at all. When we enter Wash-
ington and Lee and take for our-
selves the prestige that is associated
with her name and enjoy the bene-
fits that she has to offer, then we
also incur obligations and the great-
est obligation is that we will do our
part in upholding what Washington
and Lee stands for—or in other
words, we will support her tradi-
tions. And what finer tradition could
there possibly be than that of honor!
So, it is not merely a question of

(Continued on page 4)

McDowell Asks
Why Isn’t W&L
Now U.Va.?

(Editor’s note: The following let-
ter appeared in a recent issue of
the Richmond Times-Dispatch. Mr.
McDowell, a graduate of Washing-
ton and Lee, is a regular column-
ist for that publication.)

Mr. W. C. Washburn,

Alumni Secretary

Washington and Lee University
Lexington, Va.

Dear Bill,

You and I are well aware, of
course, of our Alma Mater’s long
and wholesome rivalry with the
University of Virginia, that state in-
stitution across the mountain from
Lexington. I am not talking about
the football rivalry because that has
lapsed and the subject is too pain-
ful to go into here, although it is
hard to forget what fun it was to
razz the Wahoos’ superior manner
and to shout “Beat State!” at them.

Anyhow, what I am talking about
is the rivalry of tradition and pride.
Ours is a considerably older college
than the Wahoo institution, and was
going strong with George Washing-
ton’s endorsement years before
Thomas Jefferson ever thought up
the University of Virginia.

That brings me to the point of this
letter. I have been reading the bound
copies of an old magazine called
Niles’ Register published in 1819.
The magazine contains what pur-
ports to be a transcription of Thomas
Jefferson’s report to the General
Assembly in which he made detailed
recommendations for the establish-
ment of the University of Virginia.
It is a disillusioning thing.

Jefferson was chairman of a board

 

charged with locating the university,

(Continued on page 4)

By GEORGE HONTS

They say that everyone has prob-
lems. But Carl Collett, better
known as Doc, has a very special
one.

He has had built, under the Cor-
ner Grill (corner Nelson St. and
and Lee Ave.), a beer garden large
enough to accommodate 60 to 80
customers. But when he applied for
a beer license for it recently, the
Alcohol Beverage Control Board of
Virginia denied him a license. This
week a hearing was held in the Rock-
bridge County Courthouse, the re-
sults of which he and Mrs. Doe, as
his wife is known to W&L students,
are anxiously awaiting.

Doc is sure he has hit upon just
the thing that Washington and Lee
end VMI students need...A good
place to take a date on a week-end
where they can be sure of decent
treatment and good service. This
seems to be his prime motive for
building the addition to the Corner
Grill.

Three Years in Making

Doc says he had had the idea for
for the beer garden in his mind for
at least three years. He looked at
the basement of the Trade Winds
Club in Roanoke, the ‘snack bar’ in
Hotel Roanoke and the Raven Room
in Howard Johnson’s restaurant in
Charlottesville. All three of these
places, including the one in Wahoo
land, are underground and have
only two windows, or none at all
like Doc’s.

Problems Delay ABC

Apparently the ventilation prob-
lem plus the fact that the room ecan-
not be seen from the street is hold-
ing the ABC Board back. But Doc
has installed an exhaust fan in the
front end of the room which is com-
pletely capable of removing all “bad
air” from the room. Even if it didn’t,
where would the “atmosphere”
come from? And there are large win-
dows in the room in the rear of the
basement.

Getting back to atmosphere, Doc’s
will be abounding with it. The walls
are made of Williamsburg brick
which are hand-made and at least
one hundred years old.

The bricks came from Staunton.
This summer, Charles W. Barger &
Son, a Lexington contracting firm,
purchased an old residence on the
grounds of the insane asylum in
Staunton. Barger tore the building
down and used the bricks in the
walls of the beer garden. Real at-
mosphere.

This is to be, Doc says (and he
sounds like he really means _ it)
strictly for the students of Lexing-
ton’s two industries, W&L and VMI.
He plans to hire, as he puts it, a
strong boy and a waitress to work
the beer garden, if it is to become
one.

Room for Professors

Just so that no one is everlooked,
Doc invites the townspeople to go
to his competitors. The professors
who like a coffee break in the morn-
ings are invited to use the new room
which Doe has built on to the back

 

| of his main floor. Doc had this addi-

 

 

(Continued on page 4)

 

 
  

YOURE BEING
RIDICULOUS!

  

NOW, YOU TAKE THAT LIBRARY
CARD AND YOU WALK UP THE
STAIRS OF THAT LIBRARY, AND
YOU G0 THROUGH THOSE DOORS
ANO YOU TAKE OUT A BOOK !!

£9
sual

 
  
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

WHAT IF SOMEBODY
SLUGS ME?

SHAMil2a

 

 

“Doc” talks over plans for his new beer garden with three Washington and
Lee students.

Doc’s Enlarges Facilities;
Adds New Beer Garden

 

 

tion made so the professors could
enjoy a degree of privacy when they
do come down from the hill. Larger
parties of students use it on the
weekends when they want to eat
together.

The sailfish which is hanging on
the rear wall of this room has been
a source of “jokes.” Students have
said that it was caught in the Maury
during the summer. Not only is this
unlikely, it is untrue. Captain Dick
Smith, a former W&L director of
athletics who is well-known among
students and owner of the Corner
Grill building, caught it in Ft. Laud-
erdale, Fla., while fishing with a
former W&L baseball ace there.

Came 15 Years Ago

Doc came to the Corner in an
unusual way 15 years ago. His
nephew was a student here before
the war, World War II, but he drop-
ped out to serve in the Army Air
Force. When the war ended, the
nephew came back to W&L and
found the Corner Grill vacant. Doc
was living in Akron, Ohio, and
wasn’t interested in returning to
the drug business. The nephew call-
ed him, he came down during Christ-
mas and signed the contract. He
moved here in March, 1945. As Doc
put it, “I didn’t expect to be here
this long, didn’t think I could put up
with Virginians for 15 years.” But
he has, and seems to be happy with
the Virginians, except for the beer
license bit.

Registered Pharmacist

Doe is a registered pharmacist in
Ohio, He graduated from the Uni-
versity of Cincinnati just a few
years after it was formed. His son
is a Kentucky Colonel, and Doc
proudly displays a key to a Ken-
tucky city which he obtained through
his son who was then a field sec-
retary for Sigma Chi.

That in brief is the story of The
Corner Grill. The only question
that bothers the writer is this: What
will WXL and VMI, and indeed, the
city of Lexington, do with another
pool hall if Doc’s downstairs beer
license doesn’t come through?

 

Notice

Mr. D. E. Brady, Jr., Superinten-
dent of Buildings and Grounds,
announced that all students who
have failed to register their automo-
biles by October 1, 1960 will be sub-
ject to a loss of driving privileges
for a minimum of six months.

In order for a student to register
his automobile, he must have a val-
id operator’s permit from his home
state. The W&L tags may be ob-
tained at the office of the school
proctor, Bob Murray, at no charge
to the student.

To date, there are 431 cars regis-
tered with approximately 100 not
registered.

 

 

 

Che Ring-tum Phi
Friday Edition

The Ring-tum Phi is published Tues-
day and Friday during the college year,
It is printed by the Journalism Labor-
atory Press, Washington and Lee Uni-

versity. The mailing address is
* Lexington, Va. =_
intered as second class matter Sep-
tember 20, 1946 at the Post Office, Cia.
ington, Va., under the act of March
, 1878,
National Advertising Representative:

The National Advertisers Servi
atl t 2 sers pervice,
420 Madison Ave., Ss Ny

Inc.,
New York, N.Y. :

.Nathan Simpson
Huntley Biggs

 

Editorial Board
Managing Editor ...George Honts

Assistant Managing Editor..............
oe ee Roy Goodwi
Nees Mite... Aeee Wee
sports Editor..... «Bill Outman
Associate Editor................ Tom Rains

  
   
    

Copy Editor............
Photography Edit

 
 

‘yee Lom Jordan
Clarence Renshaw
 

 

THE RING-TUM PHI

Page 3

 

5-Star Generals Face Dickinson Saturday

Coach To Hurl

Ground Game

At Red Devils’ 200-Pound Line

It’s been two yeers now since a
Rebel team from Washington and
Lee hes been to Carlisle, Pennsyl- |
vania—and Our Generals feel that
it’s hithtime that our Northern ad-
vers?ries received a good taste of
Southern Hospitality. Unfortunately, |
however, the last time that we ven-|
tured up the Shenandoah Valley |
and reeched that fair city, things |
didn’t turn out so well.

However, after last year—and a |
42-12 victory—the Red Devils have
a new-found respect for Coach |
Lee McLaughlin and the General
Go-T offense.

Washington and Lee’s forces will
be seeking their second win of the
1960 campaign, while Dickinson’s
Red Devils will be making their de- |
but. There is certain doubt as to!
whether or not there is a mutual
advantage to this situation.

As McLaughlin points out, “We
hope we will have corrected some
of those traditional first game mis-
takes, but then again, Dickinson had
a chance to see us last Saturday,
and at least they'll know what to
expect.

We might pause briefly here, and
ask ourselves exactly what did their
scouts witness, after having traveled
all the way to scenic Lexington for
this first game. Well, it is quite
probable that they reported back
on a W&L offense that struck twice
for 47-yard touchdowns in our 21-6
win over Centre, and generally gave
the impression of break-away poten-
tial.

They also observed a shaky pass
defense, a failure to gain on im-
portant short-yardage plays, and a
failure to exploit fully Centre’s de-
fensive set-ups. These flaws, how-
ever, could be construed as “tra-
ditional first game mistakes,” and
those which have been improved
upon with a week’s practice.

McLaughlin is cautious about the
Red Devils when he recalls that
passing played such an important
role in the Generals’ win last year.

“We felt that quarterback Jack
Groner was the big difference in
that game, and of course, Jack is
gone,” says the W&L coach.

Helping to take up the passing
slack this season will be quarter-
backs Steve Suttle and Phil Sharp.
Suttle completed only one of three
against Centre, but it was a 47-
yard scoring toss. Sharp threw only
once and it was a 20-yard comple-
tion.

Dickinson has 18 lettermen back
from last year’s team which won one,
lost seven. Among the better backs
returning are sophomore quarter-
backs Don Brominski and Reno Di-
Oro, both competent passers. Top
runners promise to be seniors Jan
Skladany and Ken Campbell, and
sophomore Louis Verdelli.

Heavy Line
On the forward wall, the Red
Devils have an experienced line
centered around a pair of giant
tackles; a 210 pound center who is
also a candidate for all-state honors;
and a pair of seasoned guards. There

 

are elso four lettermen returning |
et the end slot this year, and some ©

of us m>y remember one of these—

Roger Smith who moved his 210
pounds on an 87-yard touchdown
run after an interception in last year’s
contest.

All of this points to a rather solid
well over which Steve Suttle, Bob
Funkhouser, Jim Russ, and Doug
Martin will have to go if they plen
to rezoch pay dirt on the ground.

McLaughlin says he will continue
to use three alternating units on
otense and defense. His “blue” or
first unit backfield will include
qu?rterback Steve Suttle, halfbacks
Bob Funkhouser and Jim Russ, and
pony-size fullback Doug Martin,
the big ground-gainer against Centre
with 118 yards and 12 carries. All
were starters in 1959.

Anchor man for the W&L defense,
which limited Centre to 2.6 yards a
carry, will be junior linebacker
Terry Fohs, a 145-pound mighty
mite who contributed 19 stops against
Centre.

All in all, our Generals will be
up against a rather tough squad,
and determination should prove to
be the margin of victory. We have
one factor in our favor, however, and
that is that Dickinson fears our
depth and experience. As _ their
Coach told his boys, “In Washington
and Lee, we face one of the toughest
foes on our schedule.”

  
  
 
 
  
 
 
  
  
  
 
  
 
 
 
 
 

1 A aM a cee

Steve Suttle—Who will quarterback the

Seapine a

; * si

 

Seven freshmen and seven upper-
classmen advanced to the second
round of W&L’s annual fall tennis
tournament this week.

Tennis coach Bill Washburn, who
eagerly watched several of the tour-
ney’s matches, was highly pleased
with the entrants’ play.

He said the enthusiasm and caliber
of play displayed by the entrants
pointed toward a strengthening of
W&L’s tennis team.

Freshmen Steve Parel and Jud
Reis were the only two players
forced to go three sets for a win.

Both lost their first set and had
to fight gruelling, uphill battles.
Parel rocked Pete McMurtrie, 5-7,
8-6, 6-4; and Reis outlasted George
Paul, 3-6, 6-3, 6-4.

 

Fourteen Advance In Net Tourney,
Play Impresses Coach Washburn
|

The three seniors in the tourney,
Elwin Law; Dave Lefkowitz; and
Jerry Wilbourn, disposed of their
opposition with relative ease.

The winner of the tournament will
receive a trophy given annually by
Thomas, Ltd.

The results: B. Hollman d. C.
Smith, 6-1, 6-0; J. Baker d. David
Hyman, default; E. Law d. T. Freed,
6-0, 6-1; J. Leonard d. B. Tedards,
6-3, 6-3; D. Lefkowitz d. G. Tyler,
6-2, 6-1; H. Trout d. K. Carr, 6-0,
6-2; G. Chandler d. R. Dunlap, 6-1,
9-7; F. Hulett d. P. Barber, default;
J. French d. R. Boye, 6-1, 6-1; H.
Morrison d. M. Doty, 6-1, 6-0; J.
Wilbourn d. J. Culley, 6-2, 6-3; S.
Parel d. P. McMurtrie, 5-7, 8-6, 6-4;
J. Reid d. G. Paul, 3-6, 6-3, 6-4.

 

The Brigadiers—Washingon and
Lee’s freshman football squad—are
aiming for a second victory when
they meet Woodberry Forest here

» | Friday.

rs een
5-Star Generals in tomorrow’s

game with Dickinson.

 

Soccer Team Meets Randolph-Macon
Monday, Seeks Second Win of Season

The Washington and Lee Soccer
Generals travel Monday to Ashland,
Va., for their second contest of the
season. Randolph-Macon, a perenial
and dangerous opponent, will play
host to W&L as our booters seek
their second win in as many starts.
Last Monday, the Blue and White
shut-out hapless Pfeiffer College in
a stunning 4-0 victory.

The Yellow Jackets, however,
promise to give the squad an even
better taste of competition this year
than they did last, for the varsity

 

Notice

All Washington and Lee stu-
dents and faculty members may
purchase tickets for tomorrow’s
football game between VMI and
the University of Richmond at a
special reduced price of $1.50. To
take advantage of this offer, the
tickets must be purchased before
10:00 a.m. at the VMI Athletic Of-
fice in their gymnasium.

All tickets will cost $3.00 after
10:00 a.m.—so it is to your advant-
age to purchase them early if you
plan to attend.

 

lost several outstanding players
through graduation, and injuries are
slowly taking their toll this season.

One particularly sour note has
been sounded as Coach Joe Lyles
learned that his starting right wing-
man Steve Hawkins, who scored two
of the four goals in Monday’s game,
will probably be unable to do battle
with Randolph-Macon.

Also on the disabled list, but ex-
pected to play on Monday is Co-
captain Frank Smith. “The Horse”
has been hampered all week with a
bad leg injury, but Coach Lyles feels
that Frank will be ready on Monday.

Coach Joe Lyles has been stress-
ing the importance of fundamentals
this past week in an attempt to cor-
rect any of those “traditional first
game mistakes” that were evident in
last Monday’s contest, for as he
pointed out, “We'll beat a team every

 

 

 

THE DUTCH INN

For Reservation Call
MRS. KATHERINE ADAMS
HO 3-3433

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

FOR ROOM RESERVATIONS—CALL HO 3-2151
LEXINGTON MOTEL

Large Rooms—U. S. 11 By-Pass South
Free TV—Phones—Continental Breakfast
Only Motel in corporate limits of Lexington
SSSPOHHOSOHSSSOLOSOSHOHHSHOHOSOOH SOOO O OOO HOHESESERE

 

Hamric and Sheridan
JEWELERS
Watch and Jewelry Repair
Hand Engraving and Class Rings
HO 38-2022

 

 

 

 

 

Expert Motor Work

FOREIGN CARS AND STUDEBAKER LARKS
OUR SPECIALTY

MAIN STREET MOBILE STATION

Open 8:00 a.m.—8:00 p.m.

 

SHEE HEDGE

* NEW TOWN INN
: Short Orders—Lunches

* Catering to Students

-

Peete

SMM oE Hoe Heo o oo ened

 

Lexington
Laundro Matic

209 S. Main

*

HAND IRONED
SHIRTS

Dry Cleaning

Service

for your convenience

 

 

 

rrr |
|

 

 

 

lp

 

 

THE COLLEGE INN

The Best Food in Town

American and Italian

Catering to the Students, Faculty,
and Towns People

OPEN SUNDAYS

)

 

 

mentee "

 

 

 

 

Rockbridge Recreation Center

(Located halfway between Lexington and Buena Vista)

Fish all day for $1.00
Take Home All You Catch

BAIT AVAILABLE
Open for Fishing all winter

re

 

 

 

 

 

time that fails to make the proper
use of the fundamentals. We play
to win, and we know how to play.
This is important!”

SOCCER SCHEDULE

Sept. 26—Pfeiffer College
Oct. 3—Randolph-Macon
Oct. 11—Duke Univ..................... Away
Oct. 19—North Carolina U..... Home
Oct. 25—Lynchburg College ...... Home
Oct. 31—North Carolina State.. Home
Nov. 5—Roanoke College............ Away
Nov. 10—Univ. of Virginia........ Home
Nov. 17-19—State Tour............... Away
Nov. 22—Univ. of Maryland...... Away

 

 
 

Waggy’s Jewelers
35 S. Main Street
Phone HO 38-4121

THE HOME OF QUALITY

 

 

 

Tried
Regular

Filter
Cigarettes?

 
   

Woodberry is also 1-0 for the year,
and W&L’s promising youngsters are
looking for a strong test by the
prennial prep school power.

Freshman coach Hal Bates, a for-
mer William and Mary end, is hop-
ing for more offensive fireworks
from halfback Henry Sackett. The
former E. C. Glass football star gave
the Brigadiers 14 points toward their
20-0 win over Hargrave Military
Academy last Friday.

Bates had additional praise for half-
back Stuart Yoffe and quarterback
John McDaniel. They teamed up in
the third quarter against Hargrave

climaxing an 82-yard drive.

The Brigadiers again plan to em-
ploy the basic “Go-T” offense which
permits “T” and single-wing plays
from the same formation. Wood-

T” when W&L varsity coach Lee Mc-

for a 15-yard touchdown pass play | {

 

berry Forest saw much of the “Go- |

| Paw Meet Woodberry Today

Laughlin was head coach at the
Tigers’ arch-rival, Episcopal High
School in Alexandria.

Woodberry Forest opened its sea-
son last week with a 14-6 victory
over Augusta Military Academy.

Notice

All intramural track managers are
reminded that track practices for
the coming track meet must be com-
pleted by tomorrow, Sept. 30.

This means tht each entrant must
have completed 5 practices in the
event in which he plans to partici-
pate. The meet will begin next Mon-
day with qualifying time trials. Final
heats will be run later in the week.
Consult the intramural schedule.

 

 

TOLLEY’S PHARMACY

Prescriptions Filled
Immediately

PURCHASE DRUGS
HO 3-2211

 

 

 

 

 

Tried
Other
Menthol
Cigarettes?

DIXON’S

ESSO SERVICE CENTER
ROUTE 60 EAST IN LEXINGTON

Across from the White Top Resturant
HO 3-4214

Wash, Grease, Lube, Road Service

Charge Accounts Welcome

 
  
  

NOW! Come Up...All The Way Up

to the MENTHOL MAGIC

of

When your taste tells you
it's time for a change,
remember: Only Kool—
no regular filter cigarette,

KOOL!

YOU FEEL A
NEW SMOOTHNESS
DEEP IN YOUR THROAT! |

no other menthol cigarette—
gives you real Menthol Magic!

©1960, BROWN & WILLIAMSON TOBACCO CORPORATION yy

 
  

  
      
    

|
} ~:

]
Cig
: am 'Te

ie

ee

AVAILABLE
wiTHouT
FILTER

Nea.

THE MARK OF QUALITY IN TOBACCO PRODUCTS
 

 

 

 

 

Page 4

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

Student Service Society Elects
Nine Members For Coming Year

The Student Service Society se-
lected nine men for membership at
its meeting last Tuesday night in
the Student Union. They were chosen
from among the 45 people who were
interviewed.

Five of the men picked were
juniors and four were sophomores.
The juniors include Peter Agelasto,
Phi Psi; Jerome Dattel, ZBT; David
Knight, Phi Delt; Kenneth Jones,
Beta; and Stephen Rutledge, Phi
Gam. The sophomores were Charles
Hart, Phi Psi; Daniel Markstein,
ZBT; David Montgomery, Delt; and
Robert Young, Phi Delt.

The new members will assist the
Student Service Society in its usual

functions. SSS takes prospective
freshmen and their parents on a
tour of the W&L campus. They also |
assist the University during Parents’ |
Weekend, Alumni reunions, SIPA |
conventions and _ interviews for
Robert E. Lee scholarship prospects.
Already members of the SSS are
Don Partington, president; Don
Rhinesmith, vice-president; and
Steve Galef, secretary. Other mem-
bers are Ned Ames, Dick Kuerstein-
er, Dave Lefkowitz, Dich Sharlin
and Jim Vann. Also members are
Pearce Hardwick, Jim Russ, Phil
Sharp, and George Van Sciver.
Partington announced that the SSS
will hold a meeting on Wed., Oct. 5.

 

 

W&L Could Have Been UVa.

(Continued from page 2)

laying it out, prescribing its curricu-
lum and generally getting the pro-
ject started. There were some good
people on the board—James Madison,
Spencer Roane, James Breckenridge
and men like that. The board met in
August of 1818 at a tavern in Rock-
fish Gap and quickly agreed that its
first job was to decide where to lo-
cate the University of Virginia.

The localities bidding for the new
university were Charlottesville,
Staunton and, of all places, Lexing-
ton, which was already the site of
Washington College.

Jefferson described for the Gen-
eral Aessembly the almost frantic
(and I would say most unbecoming)
efforts of the people of Lexington
and Rockbridge county to get the
new university located in their town.

 

 

wee NaS er ss

STATE

LEXINGTON, VA.
b_NOBART, 8.3425. |

 

 

LASTS TIMES SATURDAY
2-5-8 p.m. Continuous

 

 

SUN.-MON.-TUES.
Matinee 2 p.m—Evening 8 p.m.

gt

Surag
JEFFREY

HUNTER

DAVID

JANSSEN

vic PATRICIA

DAMONE OWENS

An ATLANTIC PICTURES PRODUCTION
An ALLIED ARTISTS RELEASE

  
     

 

 

 

 

TEXACO
Super Service Station
Lexington, Virginia
Corner Main and Nelson
@eeesseeoeSesooseeoeeee

He reported that John Robinson of
Rockbridge county offered to will
to the state more than 3,000 acres
of land as a site for the university.

And this is Jefferson’s account of
the abject proposal of Washington
College and the people of the com-
munity: “The board of trustees of
Washington College have also pro-
posed to transfer the whole of their
funds, viz. 100 shares in the funds
of the James River company, 31
acres of land on which all the build-
ings stand, their philosophical ap-
paratus, their expected interest in the
funds of the Cincinnati society; the
libraries of the Graham and Wash-
ington societies; and $3,000 in cash,
on condition that a reasonable pro-
vision be made for the present pro-
fessors. A subscription had also been
offered by the people of Lexington
and its vicinity, amounting to
17 876. ...

In other words, Bill, they were
trying to sell us out, bag, baggage
and philosophical apparatus, to the
Wahoos.

Actually it was worse than that.
They were trying to give our Alma
Mater away, and they were willing
to pay the Commonwealth of Vir-
ginia to take it off their hands. (It is
even more crushing to realize that
Jefferson and his board declined
the offer.)

This episode in history was never
mentioned to me in all the time I
lived and went to college in Lex-
ington. Why were we not taught
about it in history class? Why were
our professors not willing to level
with us and tell us the worst?

It is difficult to realize even as I

good people of Lexington were try-
ing to junk Washington College even
before General Lee arrived, not to
mention you and me and countless
innocent alumni.

I am only grasping at straws, but
is it possible that this account in
Niles’ Register is a fraud? Could it
be only a joke that Jefferson was
playing on us—a frivolous lampoon
that he shipped off to the magazine?
(He was the original Wahoo, you
know.)

Can you possibly reassure the
alumni in this matter? Say it ain’t
so, Bill.

Sincerely,
CHARLEY McDOWELIL

Loeb eeedaea eRe eT

 

%
$ ROBERT E. LEE  ¢
BARBERSHOP z
David M. Moore z
: Proprietor }

¢

weed obledetetetetebibledeteb ess

 

 

 

LEXINGTON
HARDWARE
COMPANY

Phone HO 83-2242

 

 

 

 

It's Good usiness
To Do usiness
with IERER’S

PHARMACY

 

  
    
 

South Main Street
HO 3-2024

HICKMAN’S ESSO |

 

 

stare at Jefferson’s words that the |

Dr. Pusey Speaks To Frosh;
Encourages Participation

Last Tuesday evening Dean W. W.
Pusey stated to the Freshmen in a
speech entitled “The Next Four
Years,” that the prime purpose of
a college education should be the
Maximum development of the stu-
dent’s intellectual abilities. In view
of the past record of the class, he
urged them all to live up to their
potentiality in their performance.

Dean Pusey spoke of unlimited
challenge offered by our libraries,
class rooms, and laboratories, and
enumerated the fields of study avail-
able at Washington and Lee.

He called attention to certain by-
products which, in his opinion are
among the marks of an educated
man. Among these are a rational ap-
proach to problems; intellectual hu-
mility, distrust of total answers,
independence of judgment, humor
to temper, seriousness of purpose,
and time for quiet contemplation.

In conclusion he stated that a
college, and in particular Washington
and Lee, offers its students the op-
portunity and the guidance so that
they can learn to live as educated,
well-informed, imaginative citizens
and individuals. This opportunity
will not come again for the fresh-
men, he added and it is up to them to
grasp the opportunity and exploit
it to its fullest.

 

New Members Picked
By Mongolian Minks

The Mongolian Minks, an honor-
ary Washington and Lee social fra-
ternity, has recently elected twenty-
four members for the year 1960-61.
At a meeting held last Tuesday
night, the new members were de-
cided upon, and four members from
each of six fraternities on campus
were elected.

Newly elected are Phi Delts Park
Gilmore, Billy Cobbs, John Gulick,
and Chuck Vance. From the KA
house are John Mullin, John Cheath-
am, Tom Rankin, and Roy Good-
win. SAE new members are John
Amos, Wat Johnston, Dave Caruth-
ers, and Bill Bowen. From Sigma
Nu house are John Harcourt, Henry
Knight, Glen Fidler, and Ron
Scharnberg. New Betas are Cal de
Coligny, Peter Barber.

New from the ZBT house are Joel
Goozh, Mike Sussman, Art Portnoy,
and Firth Spiegel.

Formal initiation for the new
members will be held in the near
future.

 

New Cheerleaders Named

(Continued from page 1)

ball game was not as good as it could
have been, it was still an improve-
ment over past years. He noted that
since the Washington and Lee stu-
dents now have something to cheer
for in the way of a football team,
perhaps the cherleaders will have
someone to lead.

EEEEEEEEEEE TELE EE SEES EES
CALL BY NUMBER
and Save Time

%
%
:
: LEXINGTON
%

 

TELEPHONE CO.

”
eee eine
seeesoesoososooooorooore

fe oe ofe ole nfo ole ole ale ofente

 

e
0
8
o.
2)
o
2
5
a.
e
8
0
pt
™
-

and Lancer

America’s First Fine

ECONOMY CAR
*

Rockbridge Motor Co.
INC.

Phone HObart 3-3146

 

 

Fulbrights Speak

(Continued from page 2)

Being the youngest of the three,
Hroch will have several more years
of study in Vienna or Salzburg be-
fore he can practice law. His father
is a physician in his native town.

All three students were struck by
the size of Lexington and the large
number of stores here as compared
to their homes.

On edueational matters, both Turk
and Hroch were “amazed at the
amount of planning Americans do
for their educations in a college.”

Ole Southern Drawl

Antoniades had an_ interesting
comment on the understanding of
spoken English: “The only trouble I
have in understanding Americans
is when I am talking to people who
have what you call a Southern
drawl,” he said.

All three of the exchange students
feel that they should take a second
look at American college fraternities.
The German and the Austrian are
used to fraternities, but they voiced
the opinion that “American fraterni-
ties interfere too much with a stu-
dent’s private affairs.”

Seem Foolish

Antoniades says fraternities, as he
has seen them and heard and read
about them seems “foolish.”

“It’s like paying to get in a certain
group,” he said.

None of the three students chose
Washington and Lee as the American
college they wanted to attend. Under
Fulbright Commission regulations
they had only the right to name a
region of the country they should
like. They were in turn assigned
here.

 

Homecoming Nears
(Continued from page 1)

The highlight of the game will be
the crowning of the Washington
and Lee Homecoming Queen for 1960.
The queen is chosen by faculty mem-
bers from entries submitted by the
fraternities.

A crowd exceeding 350 alumni and
guests is expected to be on hand
when the Generals meet the Diplo-
mats of Franklin and Marshall Col-
lege.

Seveverrereere rere teers

 

* R.L. Hess and Bro. =
> JEWELERS
z Lexington, Virginia E
‘ HO 3-2833 *
Releleieteieteteteteteietetteteteteteteettetes:

 

 

 

Wayland’s Drug Store

Prescriptions, Russell Stover
Candies

Next to Rockbridge Bank

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Congratulations

you're still alive
but,
how safe are your tires?

We are tire specialists
Let us inspect your tires
regularly
General Tires

Kraft System Recapping

SPENCER GENERAL
TIRE CO.

Route 60 East

 

 

 

 

BROWN’S
CLEANING
WORKS
We call for

and deliver

HO 3-2018 14 Randolph St.

 

 

 

 

 

 

“COMEDY SPIKED WITH FARCE...
A MAXIMUM OF WIT".

—N. Y. Times

SUN.-MON.-TUES,

   
   

P~»—\.of the Sexes

PETER SELLERS:
‘the Battle

By

A Continental Distributing. Inc Release
vd

 

 

 

 

 

 

PARAMOUNT

—-
—

 

 

 

 

 

HA

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   

Taser
IF ii :

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

LARGE Glass wi :
a4,
TUES. MIGHT,

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Disciplinary Groups Distrusted

(Continued from page 2)
whether one could turn his room-
mate in or not, but it is whether you
are doing your part to fulfill the con-
tract that you made with W&L.

The University has the right to
demand that a person fulfill his part
of this contract, and the purpose
of these committees is to insure that
the university’s interests are pro-
tected. These traditions are plainly
stated in the catalogue and, con-
sequently no student need ever come
to Washington and Lee not willing
to support them. She tells you what
she has to offer you in the way of
courses and excellent professors,
but she also tells you what she ex-
pects; and the fact of your presence
here testifies that you are prepared
to do your utmost to meet these ex-
pectations.

Understand, the various commit-
tees are not made up simply to har-
rass the student body and support
a structure of burdensome restric-
trictions. Rather, these committees
stand ready to protect those ideas
that the University cherishes and to
punish those who are living here
under the false idea that all they
are required to do is take with no
reciprocating obligation. The pres-
ence of these committees does not
indicate that the system has fallen
down or that time has marched on,

rendering the basic concepts of this
college passe.

They do not exist to maintain
a structure that has long-since lost
its vitality. The purpose of their ex-
istenee is to insure that the majority
of the students, who entered W&L
under certain basic assumptions and
who have loved the University be-
eause she has held these assump-
tions inviolatible, will not be frus-
trated by the few ‘bad apples’ that
are unwilling or unable to measure
up to their obligations.

The committees, then, should be
loked on as the guardians of all that
we hold sacred and should be aided
and supported by every student in
the University.

 

 

 

FORMAL WEAR

Afar |

ey everett

 

    

and
Complete Formal Accessories
The

COLLEGE TOWN

Shop

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   

On Campus set?

(Author of “I Was a Teen-age Dwarf”, “The Many
Loves of Dobie Gillis’’, etc.)

   
 

THE PLEDGE YOU SAVE
MAY BE YOUR OWN

Today’s column is directed at those young female under-
graduates who have recently pledged sororities and are wor-
ried, poor lambs, that they won’t make good. Following is a
list of simple instructions which, if faithfully observed, will
positively guarantee that you will be a mad success as a

sorority girl.

First, let us take up the matter of housemothers. The
housemother is your friend, your guide, your mentor. You
must treat her with respect. When you wish to speak to her,
address her as “‘Mother Sigafoos” or ‘‘Ma’am.” In no circum-
stances must you say, ‘‘Hey, fat lady.”

Second, let us discuss laundry. Never hang your wash on
the front porch of the sorority house. This is unsightly and
shows a want of breeding. Use the Chapter Room.

Third, meals. Always remember that planning and preparing
meals for a houseful of healthy girls is no simple task. Your
cook goes to a great deal of trouble to make your menu varied
and nourishing. The least you can do is show your apprecia-
tion. Don’t just devour your food; praise it. Exclaim with
delight, ‘‘What delicious pork jowls!” or “What a yummy soup
bone!” or “What scrumptious fish heads!’ or “What clear

water!”

Fourth, clothing. Never forget that your appearance re-
flects not just on yourself but on the whole house. It was
well enough before you joined a sorority to lounge around
campus in your old middy blouse and gym bloomers, but now
you must take great pains to dress in a manner which excites
admiring comments from all who observe you. A few years ago,
for example, there was a Chi Omega named Camille Ataturk
at the University of Iowa who brought gobs of glory to all her
sorors. Camille hit on the ingenious notion of suiting her garb
to the class she was attending. For instance, to English Lit she
wore a buskin and jerkin. To German she wore lederhosen and
carried a stein of pilsener. To Econ she wore 120 yards of
ticker tape. Her shiningest hour came one day when she
dressed as a white mouse for Psych Lab. Not only her Chi
Omega sisters, but the entire student body went into deep
mourning when she was killed by the janitor’s cat.

 
 

  

se eaaiie

eee?

Finally, let us take up the most important topic of all. I

refer, of course, to dating.

As we have seen, the way you dress reflects on your sorority
but the men you date reflect even more. Be absolutely certain
that your date is an acceptable fellow. Don’t beat about the
bush ; ask him point-blank, “Are you an acceptable fellow?”
Unless he replies, “Yeah, hey,” send him packing,

But don’t just take his word that he is acceptable. Inspect
him closely. Are his fingernails clean? Is his black leather
jacket freshly oiled? Is his ukelele in tune? Does he carry

publie liability insurance? And,

he smoke Marlboros?

most significant of all, does

If he’s a Marlboro man, you know he has taste and discern-
ment, wit and wisdom, character and sapience, decency and
warmth, presence and poise, talent and grit, filter and flavor
soft pack and flip-top box. You will be proud of him your
sorority will be proud of him, the makers of Marlboro will be
proud of him, and I will be paid for this column,

* *

© 1960 Max Shulman

*

The makers of Marlboro, having paid for this column, would
like to mention another of their fine cigarettes—mild, un-
filtered Philip Morris—available in regular size or the sensa-
tional new king-size Commander. Have a Commander—

welcome aboard.

di

 

 
 

 

W&L Tromps Red Devils for 2nd Straight Win

Che King-tum Phi

Washington and Lee Semi-Weekly Newspaper

TUESDAY
Edition

TUESDAY
Edition

 

Volume LXI

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA, OCTOBER 4, 1960

Number 6

 

Classicist Dr. Hadas
To Conduct Seminar

The first program in the 1960-61 series of literary seminars
will feature Dr. Moses Hadas, Jay Professor of Greek at Co-
lumbia University. Dr. Hadas plans to present his lecture on
Monday, Oct. 31, at 8:15 in duPont Auditorium.

Dr. Ross Borden, head of the W&L English department,

which sponsors these annual visits*

from outstanding men and women in
the field of English, has released the
topic of Dr. Hadas’ message as, “Hu-
manism, the Ancient Ideal and Its
Survival.” Dr, Borden added that the
appearance of Dr. Hadas on the
W&L campus marked the 35th sem-
inar sponsored by the English de-
partment. He urged all interested
persons to come by the English of-
fices in Payne Hall and obtain their
free tickets as soon as possible. The
small seating capacity of duPont
auditorium leaves only a_ limited
number of tickets available.

Dr. Hadas is known in educa-
tional circles as one of America’s
foremost professors of Greek. He
received his A.B. degree from
Emory University in 1922, his M.A.
from Columbia in 1925, his Ph.D.,
and D. Litt. from Emory Univer-
sity in 1956, and only two years
ago earned his L.H.D. from Den-
yon College.

He has served successively as in-
structor, assistant professor, associate
professor, professor, and Jay Profes-
sor of Greek at the University of
Cincinnati. Dr. Hadas is a member
of the American Philological Associa-
tion and of Phi Beta Kappa.

The latest of Dr. Hadas’ publica-
tions include Three Greek Romances,
The Homeric Gods, Basic Words of
Cicero, and The Greek Poets. His
latest translations of Greek manu-
scripts have been published as Cons-
tatine the Great and Goethe the
Poet. His most popular historical
writings are A History of Greek Lit-
erature, A History of Latin Litera-
ture, and Aristeas to Philocrates.

Dr. Borden announced that Dr.
Hadas is currently touring the coun-
try through the national program
of visiting scholars. He added that
the English department has planned
three more interesting and informa-
tive seminars this year featuring top
scholars and lecturers.

Young Republicans Meet
For Second Time Tonight

The second organizational meeting
of the “Youths for Nixon and Lodge”
will be held tonight at 7:00 in the
Student Union Building. All stu-
dents are invited to attend.

This last Saturday, the club par-
ticipated in the College State Con-
vention of the Virginia Federation
ef Young Republicans Clubs at
the University of Virginia. Hard
work by the delegation, aided by
the prestige W&L still retained
from its power in the organization
several years ago, W&L made an
impressive showing. Brent Wells,
Beta sophomore, was elected sec-
retary for 1960-61. Craig Distel-
horst was on the committee which
nominated Brent; and Dave Cook,
president of the W&L club, and a
Roanoke College delegate made
the seconding speeches.

The other officers were elected
from the schools of Roanoke College,
William and Mary and the Univer-
sity of Virginia. There are twenty-
three clubs in the Young Repub-
licans organization in Virginia.

All students of Washington and
Lee University are strongly urged
to register for the Nov. 8 election
in their respective states. The regis-
tration for absentee balloting has
already closed in some states and
the registration rolls in the other
states will be closing very soon.

 

E. C. Elections

Elections for the executive com-
mitteemen of the freshman aca-
demic and law classes will be held
Monday, Oct. 10, at 7 p.m. The
freshman academic election will
be held in Lee Chapel. The law
election will be in Tucker Hall.

* * *

The meeting of the International
Relations Club scheduled for
Thursday, Oct. 6, has been cancel-

(Continued on page 4)

 

 

Perkins To Talk
On Our Idea
Of War, Peace

By BOB BRIDEWELL

Dr. Dexter Perkins, known in edu-
cational circles as the “Dean of
American diplomatic historians,” will
speak in duPont auditorium on Tues-
day, Oct. 11, at 8 p.m. The text of
his message will deal with “Ameri-
can Attitudes Toward Peace and
War.”

Dr. Perkins comes to the Wash-
ington and Lee campus billed as
the outstanding living authority on
the Monroe Doctrine, in addition
to numerous works on American
foreign policy and on the state
of America during and after the
world wars. His latest publications
include The American Way and
The History of the Monroe Dic-
trine.

Before becoming Professor of
American Civilization at Cornell in
1954, Dr. Perkins had taught at Har-
vard, Cambridge, and the Univer-
sity of Rochester. He was Prof. of
American History and Institutions at
Cambridge from 1945-1946, Prof. and
Chairman of the Department of His-
tory at the University of Rochester
from 19251-54, and Chairman of the
Harvard Foundation for Advanced
Study and Research from 1951-1956.

Dr. Perkins holds degrees from
Harvard, Cambridge and Union
College. He was President of the
Salzburg Seminar in American
Studies until 1954, and President of
the American Historical Society
until 1956.

After serving in the infantry as a
Captain, Dr. Perkins worked on the
Peace Conference ending World War
I.

W&L History professor, Dr. Oliver
Crenshaw mentioned that the history
department was very proud to have

Dr. Perkins as a guest lecturer. “We.

want to cordially invite all history
students as well as other students,
faculty members, and townsfolk to
hear this remarkable diplomatic his-
torian.”

 

NOTICE

Tommy Edwards, sophomore
class president, has announced that
there will be a class party at the
Robert E. Lee Hotel after the
Homecomings game Saturday.

All sophomores and their dates
are invited from 4:30 to 6:30 p.m.

A combo has been scheduled to play
and drinks will be served.

 

UCA Begins Year’s Work

The University Christian Associa-
tion met recently to welcome pros-
pective members and to organize
for the new academic year.

President Maleolm Brownlee call-
ed the meeting to order and gave
the opening prayer. He made re-
marks about the purpose of the or-
ganization: “To realize a full and
creative life” through the work of
the U.C.A.

Following Brownlee’s talk, the
chairmen of the working commit-
tees were introduced, and each gave
a brief talk on the nature of his
committee: Boys’ Club Committee
Chairman, Jerry Gray; Religious
Emphasis Week Committee Chair-
man, Bill Mosely who spoke for the
absent George Birdsong; Worship
Committee Chairman, Mac McKay;
Community Service Committee
Chairman, Pete Agelasto; and sub-
committee Mountain Missions Chair-
man, Clinton Anderson. The yet un-
official Fresiman Work Committee
was represented by Malcolm Brown-
lee and Ashley Wiltshire.

Following the meeting the commit-
tees met separately with interested
students.

 

Ray Eberle

 

Concert Guild

To Open Season

With Symphony

The Atlanta Symphony Orchestra,
Henry Sopkin, Conductor will play
here Nov. 19 at 8:15 p.m. in Doremus
Gym under the auspices of the
Washington and Lee Concert Guild.

An unusual and varied program
has been selected for the concert.
The selections to be played by the
orchestra include: Brahms—Sym-
phony No. 2; Ravel—Mother Goose
Suite; Bach—Brandenburg Concer-
to No. 3.

Also included on the program
is an original composition by Rob-
ert Stewart, Associate Professor
of Music and Fine Arts at W&L,
entitled Prelude for Strings.

The Atlanta Symphony is only
fifteen years old, having been found-
ed in 1945 as the Atlanta Youth
Symphony. Its first conductor was
Henry Sopkin, who has remained
since that time to guide the phenom-
enal growth of the orchestra. Prior to
coming to Atlanta Sopkin was wide-
ly known for his work with student
orchestras and by the many musical
works he has edited and arranged.
He still pursues these activities, but
the inereasing demands of his own
Atlanta Symphony have greatly
limited his participation in the na-
tional orchestral clinics and compe-
' titions. Nevertheless, he attends sev-
eral festivals each year during the
winter season, and spends his sum-
mers teaching orchestral methods at
orchestral methods at Northwestern
; University in Evanston, Ill.
| Those people who did not pur-
chase season tickets for the Concert
Guild series will be able to obtain
them at the door.

 

Ray Eberle To Perform for
Openings Dance Weekend

By GEORGE PREGGIN

Ray Eberle, who for six years was
the featured vocalist with the Glenn
Miller organization, will make his sec-
ond appearance at Washington and Lee
when he plays for the opening night
of Openings Dance Set, on Friday,
October 28.

Eberle also will be featured for the
dance on Saturday night. He played
here last Openings and was so popu-

* Jar with the dance goers that Dance

Board President, Jimmy Vann, has
signed him for a second appearance.

Eberle, who was with Glenn Miller
during the late ’30’s and early °40’s
will bring to W&L a band which em-
bodies basically the Miller style of
music.

Last year he featured such Glenn
Miller standards as “Elmers Tune,”
“One O’Clock Jump,” “My Reverie,”

“Chattanooga Choo Choo,” “Stairway
to the Stars,” and “My Blue Heaven.”

His most successful personal ef-
fort came in the early ’40’s when he
teamed with Helen O’Connell for a
best-selling version of “Green Eyes.”

Among his movie appearances have
been “Sun Valley Serenade,” and “Or-
chestra Wives,” both 20th Century
Fox films featuring the Glenn Miller
band.

The many showcases where Eber-
le’s name and fame spread were:
Paramount Theatre, New York; Pal-
ladium in Hollywood; Oriental and
Chicago Theatres; Slater Hotel in
New York and many other top loca-
tions where famous band players
appear.

A revival of the Glenn Miller en-
semble was made featuring other
Miller singers, Marian Hutton, Tex

 

University
Receives Gift
For 4th Year

A gift of $1,000 to Washington and
Lee University from the Equitable
Life Assurance Society of the United
States has been announced by uni-
sity President Fred C. Cole.

Equitable’s president James F
Oates, Jr., informed President Cole
that Washington and Lee is one of
125 privately-supported colleges and
universities sharing in $125,000 in
unrestricted grants for 1960.

The gift marks the fourth consecu-
tive year Washington and Lee has
been selected by the New York firm’s
Board of Directors as a participant
in its “Plan for the Support of High-
Education.”

“Washington and Lee is grateful
indeed for this support,” said Presi-
dent Cole. “Assistance such as this
is a source of constant inspiration
and encouragement to private col-
leges and universities. Mr. Oates
called attention in his letter to the
significant fact that business has
been generally becoming increasing-
ly dependent upon institutions of
higher learning for the training and
development of future managers and
executives.”

Washington and Lee continues to
| receive increasing financial support
from business and industry.

 

 

Features Science

By JOHN KIRKLEY

There is now showing a two part
poster exhibit in the display room of
duPont Hall. The first and smaller
of the two sections contains six pos-
ters presenting different aspects of
geophysical research. The other sec-
tion is composed of propaganda pos-
ters of various countries and times.

The series of propaganda posters
comes from the private collection of
Mr. Riegel, the head of the Journal-
ism Department. The posters in this
collection have been used to direct
or influence public opinion. There
are representative posters from
World War I, the rise of Hitler and
the National Socialists, the Spanish
Civil War, World War II, post-war
Hungary, and several pro and anti
Communist posters.

One large poster in fire engine red
is entitled “Deutschland erwacht!”
or “Germany awake!” This particu-
lar poster was put up all over
Berlin before the second World War.
It was drawn by the German propa-
ganda master Mjolnir.

There is a poster on “The Advant-
ages of the Smutty Story.” There is
another American poster in which a
German hand is seen stabbing a
Bible with a dagger; the caption is
“This is the enemy.” A poster by
Ellsworth Young illustrates the so-
called “rape of Belgium.” Another
shows an angry Liberty demanding
that the public buy liberty bonds.

Two posters by Thomas Benton,
“Again” and “The Sowers,” illustrate
the appeal to emotion and the instant
impact intrinsic in most good propa-

 

New duPont Hall Poster Exhibit

and Propaganda

ganda. On the lighter side, there is
a poster by Howard Chandler Christi
depicting a sweet and rather attrac-
tive young lady smirking, “Gee!! I
wish I were a MAN. Id join the
NAVY.”

Mr. Riegel has been collecting
these posters since his high school
days; however, he began hunting
for posters intensively in the 1930's
and has accumulated more on each
successive trip abroad. He now has
several hundred of these posters,
which he uses in his course on
Psychological Warfare and Propa-
ganda.

The six science posters are illus-
trative material for a small pam-
phlet—“Planet Earth’—put out by
the National Academy of Sciences.
The series is designed primarily as
a high school exhibit to convey an
impresison of the type of scientific
research done in several fields of
science today. Another purpose is
to dramatize certain scientific ad-
vances to the lay observer. Since
this, in the words of Dr. Spencer, is
“an area in which the country needs
qualified scientists to do pure he-
search,” perhaps the exhibit will
have the effect of encouraging sev-
eral students to enter this field.

These large and very colorful
pesters are on the following six
topics: Earth, Oceans, Sun, and
Earth, Poles, Weather and Climate,
and Space. Each includes a quota-
tion from one of the poets of the
Bible. The exhibit should hang for
one or two weeks.

 

 

Faculty Approves Six
For Rhodes Application

The faculty has approved the nom-
ination of six men for 1960-61 Rhodes
Scholarships. The action was taken
after the committee on Graduate
Fellowships submitted the names to
the faculty.

The six men, chosen on _ the
basis of academic, as well as extra-
curricular activity included Hen-
ry Harrell, Roy Carpenter, George
Palmer Pardington, James Vann,
Kent Frazier, and Nathan Simp-
son. Their names will now be sub-
mitted to the Rhodes Scholarship
committees in their home states or
in the states to which they are ap-
plying.

Henry Harrell is a Sigma Chi from
Sabot, Va. His major is in the Eng-
lish department, and he desires to
read law at Oxford University in
England. Harrell is vice-president of
the Student Body, a member of ODK,
Phi Eta Sigma, and is on the Honor
Roll and the Dean’s List. In addi-
tion, he is a member of SWMSFC
and the Executive Committee.

Roy Carpenter is a senior from
Bryan, Texas. Carpenter is on the
Honor Roll, Dean’s List, and is a
member of Phi Eta Sigma. He was
vice-president of his sophomore
class, a member of the Dance Board,
a dormitory counselor, and a member
of the varsity baseball team. Carpen-

(Continued on page 4)

 

U.S. Civil Service Exams
Set For College Students

The United States Civil Service
Commission has announced that ap-
plications are now being accepted for
the 1961 Federal Service Entrance Ex-
amination—the examination through
which young people of college cali-
bre may begin a career in the Feder-
al Civil Service in one of some 60
different occupational fields. The posi-
tions to be filled from the FSEE are in
various Federal agencies located in
Washington, D.C., and throughout the
United States.

The examination is open to college
juniors, seniors, and graduates, re-
gardless of major study, and to per-
sons who have had equivalent ex-
perience. Starting salaries will be
either $4,345 or $5,355 a year de-
pending on the qualifications of the
candidate. Management Internships
will also be filled from this exam-
ination with starting salaries of
$5,355 and $6,435 a year.

The first written test will be held on
October 15 for those who apply by
September 29. Five additional tests

have been scheduled for this school
year. Dates are November 19, 1960,
January 14, February 11, April 15, and
May 18, 1961.

Acceptance of applications for Man-
agement Internships will be closed on
January 26, 1961. For all other posi-
sions, the closing date is April 27, 1961.

Interested persons may obtain furth-
er information about the test and how
to apply from Civil Service Announce-

ment No, 240. Announcements and ap-
plication forms may be obtained frcm
college placement offices, many post
offices throughout the country, civil
service regional offices, or from the
U.S. Civil Service Commission, Wash-
ington 25, D.C.

 

Beneke, The Modernaires and Paula
Kelly.

Eberle has been featured twice
weekly on radio station WPIX in Chi-
cago. Last year Design Records re-
corded “Ray Eberle Sings and Plays
Music of Today the Glenn Miller
Way.”

Formal attire will be worn for the
Friday Night Dance. Other attire will
not be accepted. Conventional dress
will be expected at the concert on Sat-
urday afternoon and the dance on
Saturday night. No drinking will be
allowed. All persons who have not
purchased or paid for dance plans
should contact Jim Vann or any other
member of the dance board.

 

e
Library Hours
Changed; Open
s e e

Until Midnight

At the request of President Cole,
McCormick Library will remain open
until 12 midnight Sunday through Fri-
day each week, on a trial basis, for the
rest of this first semester. The new
schedule of extended hours of opening

will commence tonight (Tuesday Oc-
tober 4).

There will be no change in time
for checking out Reserve Books
which may be signed out at 8 p.m.
for overnight use. Also, there will
be no change in the Saturday sched-
ule which remains in effect with
hours of opening being 8:15 a.m.
to 5:30 p.m. Special schedules for
holidays and other occasions will
be posted as usual.

The 10:15 p.m. warning bell will now
be sounded at 11:45 in order that the
Library may be closed at 12 midnight.

Unless there is a definite and ur-
gent need for longer hours of opening,
basement study rooms (Owl’s Nest)
will not be open after 12 midnight
when the rest of McCormick Library
is closed each night Sunday through
Friday.

 

Pep Rally, Frosh Parade

Open Homecomings Fri.

The pep rally approved by the
IFC last week was given added im-
petus last night by a pep talk to that
body by the head cheerleader, Steve
Danzansky. Danzansky cited the im-
portance of cooperation among up-
per-classmen and fraternities in
order to make the rally a success.
“Remember how disappointed we
were as freshmen,” Danzansky said,
“when we discovered how low the
morale was among the upper-class-
men. Well, we have no excuse for
apathy now. We've got a winning
team and a freshman class that’s
anxious to support their Alma Mater.
Let’s not let them down.” Danzan-
sky called upon the whole school
to lend support Friday night and
Saturday.

The pep rally will precede the
usual freshman torch-light parade.
All fraternities were asked to hold
off their combos Friday night un-
til the completion of the rally and
parade. At the rally Coach Mac,
the team, and the candidates for
Homecoming Queen will be introd-
duced. Dr. Cole, the Alumni, and
various members of the faculty
and administration will be present.
The rally will touch off the parade
which will be organized along new
lines this year. Two automobiles
per fraternity will be allowed in
the parade and part of the judg-
ing for the annual Spirit Award
will be based on the decoration of
these automobiles.

Monday night four faculty mem-
bers, Dr. Shillington, Dr. Welch, Dr.
Borden, and Dr. Hamer, all bach-
elors, selected the girl who will be
our homecoming Queen. She will be
crowned during half-time ceremon-
ies on Saturday.

Three bands will be featured dur-
ing the game, the Halifax and the

Franklin and Marshall marching
bands and the W&L Pep Band.
W&L’'s Pep Band will also play

for the pep rally and parade.
Page 2

Che King-tum Phi

Tuesday

Member of Virginia Intercollegiate Press Association

Edition

 

We Need Room

NO MORE THAN THREE (3) MEMBERS OF THE
RING-TUM PHI STAFF ARE ALLOWED IN THE
PRINT SHOP AT ONE TIME.

The above ultimatum has been hanging over the work desk
of the print shop for these many years. The editors of the paper
have done their best to comply with this most necessary rule.
They have tried to keep down the crowd in the shop. Because
of circumstances beyond their control, they are not always able
to reduce their print shop staffs to three men.

Most of the work that is done on the paper has to be done
in the 24 hours before the paper goes to press. There are stories
to be written and rewritten. There are articles to be proofed.
There is “copy” to be proofed.
ten. There are jobs too numerous to mention that must be done

in the print shop.

There are times when some of these mechanics of putting
out a good newspaper must be neglected because of a shortage
of personnel and space in the already cluttered print shop. The
only answer to the problem as it stands now is to bring in more
men. These extra staff members are constantly in the hair of the
regular print shop workers who, by the way, have been quite
tolerant of the student help in the past. These men can stand
only so much. They have numerous other school publications to
put out, and there are times when the steady flow of students
in and out of the shop is almost too much of a strain for them.

The Editorial Staff of the Ring-tum Phi is in desperate need
of a room located somewhere in the vicinity of the print shop
where it would be able to carry on much of the necessary work
involved in publishing a school newspaper.

The extra room would be used for the necessary organi-
zational meetings of reporters and staff. It could serve as a
record room for past issues of the school paper and as a much
needed “‘cut library” which the publications board has been
threatening to form for the past few years. The room would
allow typists and reporters to work in relative comfort. The size
and efficiency of the various staffs would be increased. The
quality of the paper would be increased.

We need room to work. The men in the print shop need
room to work. The only answer is to find a room somewhere
on campus and to procure the permission of the University to

use it!

There are “heads” to be writ-

 

Dating, Drinking, and Dances
Recollected From W&L Twenties

By HARVEY ALLEN

Remembering some of the things we
all hear from time to time about “the
good old days,” we talked with sev-
eral persons, seeking to uncover what
was different, better, or worse about
how it used to be at W&L.

We found that the students of the
twenties were generally under less
pressure than now, particularly since
they had no threat of war hanging over
their heads. “Blue Skies” was one of
the popular tunes of the day, as played
by Jan Garber, and well described the
way the students of W&L felt about
their world then.

The mid-thirties brought changes.
Students lived “in the shadow of Hit-
ler,” as Dr. Jenks described it. The
W&L man knew that one day soon he
would have to fight, but just how soon,
nobody knew.

Contrast this with the feeling that
Dr. Crenshaw speaks of. In the late
twenties the First World War had
been over for some time and no one
thought there would ever be another
war.

Depression and hard times brought
the most direct changes to students
on the hill. They became generally
more serious and “conscious of pen-
nies,” as Dr. Moger put it, not just dol-
lars.

More emphasis was placed on dress-
ing, “looking sharp,” as we’d say, dur-
ing the late twenties. The Thomas Ltd.
of that day was Graham & Father,
located then on Main Street.

Social life we found to be much dif-
ferent. This was especially true of the
late twenties and early thirties, when
to suggest a combo at the same time
a University dance was going on was
unheard of. Students just didn’t think
about doing it.

University dance sets were attended
in great numbers, not only by Minks,
but also by VMI Keydets. Dr. Jenks
told us one reason why a W&L
man looked forward to becoming a
senior was that it meant that he could
attend the evening dances at VMI.

Afternoon dances and activities were
open to all Minks and Keydets, wheth-
er freshmen or upper classmen, but
the nightly mixing was reserved for
seniors only.

You'll probably be surprised, as we
were, to hear that any girl who found
that she had spent the entire time at
a dance dancing with only her date
was considered a wallflower!

“Cutting-in” and “tagging” were
very much the thing to do. Everyone
got around and danced with as many
different people as they could, and by

 

no means danced with their date all
night.

Not until the mid-twenties was the
road between Lexington and Hollins
paved, which made "Macon by far
the more accessible. When girls came
over for weekends, it was most usual-
ly by train.

The thirties changed this, with im-
provements in roads. The usual ar-
rangement was for girls from one
school to hire large taxies and come
that way, much in the same way that
VMI keydets get themselves to South-
ern Sem today.

Few people on campus had cars in
the twenties, mainly because the roads
were not good enough to make having
a car really worthwhile.

House parties differed in that the
usual rule for entertainment was rec-
ords, not a combo. When a combo did
play, it was made up of W&L stu-
dents, not a colored combo; an ac-
cepted thing in our time.

On the drinking angle, “a girl never
took a drink,” Dr. Jenks noted. Or-
dinarily, the only girls you would
likely see partaking would be those
from eastern schools, like Finch in
New York City.

It appears that pledging and fra-
ternity things, in general, were more
serious. Hell Week was “pretty rough”
then, even to the point that the ad-
ministration stepped in, with the re-
sult that initiations and pledge training
were milder, for a time. After World
War II, though, it got rough again.

Freshmen were more compelled by
necessity to join a fraternity. The only
place to eat, other than around town,
was the Beanery, which was located,
for a time, on the site of and in the
same building as what is now called
the “old Co-op.”

Students could sign up for meals,
on a monthly basis. The wrestling
coach ran the Beanery, and the stu-
dents on athletic scholarships served
as waiters, as part of their scholar-
ships.

That’s what the “good old days” on
the Hill were like.

 

THE RING-TUM PHI

Raven Rants

Man on the W. and L. Campus Discovers
What Should “Naturally Be Done in Fall”

By GERRY OUELLETTE
and WYNN KINTZ

We wish to consider October, for
us the best and worst of months,
and the changes which follow in its
wake.

Officially, the Germans bring in
the new season (or are they putting
out the old one) with the renowned
October Fest. That is not to say
that Washington and Lee necessarily
takes a back seat to festivities. The
first week-end in the month normal-
ly sets the pace for the rest of the
long, cold season ahead. We are
pleased to report that this year’s
first October week-end did not dis-
appoint us.

Then there is the change in the
clothing the W&L students exhibit
at this time of year. Off with the
white bucks, ye freshmen, ’tis the
season for olive drabs and shades of
charcoal. Upon investigation, we
found that the local shops (two)
have a satisfactory line of “what the
W&L gentleman should wear this
year.”

We also find that October rushes in
what we shall call, for want of a
better expression, the testing period.
Officially, mid-semester follows very
closely to the month “under re-
view,” and consequently, the profes-
sors will soon be trying their wits,
correcting student papers. Hour
quizzes, we know, are necessary evils
quite similar to the student having
to buy new books every year. The
necessity of the quizzes does not
preclude, however, the general ner-
vous feeling all students have for
them. At times, one feels that ex-
aminations are more a test of the
student’s health, mainly his nerves,
rather than a proof of his mental
materials.

The campus itself is not exempt

 

from October rejuvenation. Soo, we
shall all witness the harvest again.
Every year this seems to us one
of the most fascinating aspects of
our early morning jaunt “up the
hill.” It is more than exhuberating
to see the maintenance crew hard
at work gathering the falling leaves.
The fact which never ceases to amaze
us, not to mention the challenge
which it inevitably invites, is that
anyone could feel so energetic at
that early hour of the morning.

Generally, the attendance at the
flick houses in town rises in Octo-
ber. This we believe to be a re-
sult of the more intense strain
the student has to undergo during
this month of football, Opening
Dances, hour quizzes, and falling
leaves. We hope that the congenial
managers of the theatres will oblige
us; something new, something var-
ied is always appreciated by us
who believe that motion pictures
are a misunderstood art on the
American scene.

“A man ought to read just as
inclination leads him; for what
he reads as a task will do him
little good.”

—Samuel Johnson

If one were to take Mr. Johnson’s
aphorism seriously, the University
would be harboring an ardent re-
former.

“Neither do thou lust after that
tawney weed tobacco.”

—Ben Johnson

Let us add, that jejeune house
party.
“Laws are inoperative in war.”
Marcus Tullius Cicero

Tradition, if worthwhile should be
self-enforcing. When one speaks of

the Tradition at W&L, there is, of
course, never any mention of any
set of rules; but, alas, the gestapo
is a very, very old device.

“Keep up your bright swords,
for the dew will rust them.”

—William Shakespeare

Saturday’s victory lies seven days
away from another game. A new and
more formidable challenge whets the
appetite of a worthy man, team, or
organization.

“We shall not flag or fail. We
shall fight in France, we shall
fight on the seas and oceans, we
shall fight with growing confidence
and growing strength in the air,
we shall defend our island, what-
ever the cost may be, we shall fight
on the beaches, we shall fight on
the landing grounds, we shall fight
in the fields and in the streets,
we shall fight in the hills, we shall
never surrender.”

—Sir Winston Churchill

Gentlemen Generals, we are your
servants. Let Mr. Churchill’s words
be your prayers, we ask no more.

“By shallow rivers, to whose falls
Melodious birds sing madrigals.
And I will make thee beds of roses
and a thousand fragant posies.”

—Christopher Marlowe

Mr. Marlow wrote these line in his
freshman year at college to a young
Miss then enrolled at the English
equivalent of Sweet Briar. The pur-
pose, we are told, was to entice her
to come to Cambridge for a party
week-end. The only question we are
left with (perhaps someone could
answer it) is whether or not the in-
vitation was accepted.

You don’t expect me to know
what to say about a play when I

 

Democrats Push

Panic Button

As GOP Threatens Solid South

By HUGO HOOGENBOOM

This year’s presidential election is
unusual in many respects: the rela-
tive youth of both candidates, the
television debates, and the rise of the
Republican Party in the South. It
is this last which is most interest-
ing. It should not have been totally
unexpected; Virginia, North Carolina
and Texas have all sent Republican
representatives to congress, and the
border states of Kentucky and Mary-
land have elected Republicans to
state offices and sent them to the
Senate. Many southern states went
for Eisenhower. But this year, in
the solidest states of the Solid South,
we find Republican parties organiz-
ed on the local level, with respect-
able men doing the organizing.
(Formerly, in South Carolina, for
instance, most members of the Re-
publican Party were simply patron-
age seekers.)

In other words, this year a Re-
publican party is being organized
which will remain in existence af-
ter the presidential election is over.
This may explain the vigorous
support southern state democratic
leaders are giving the Kennedy-
Johnson ticket. A strong, grass-
roots Republican Party would put
the Democratic office-holding in-
dustry of the South in serious
jeopardy, and it seems that most
southern politicians are more con-
cerned with their staying in of-
fice without being endangered by
an upstart two-party system than
with any principles which might
influence their support.

Very little besides political self-
interest could tie a man like Ken-
nedy with men like Almond, Faubus,
Hollings, ete. (it might be said, how-
ever, that political opportunism is
the main characteristic of all these
men.) On top of all this comes the
curious campaign which is being
waged in the South for Kennedy. It
is broadly hinted that Kennedy has
made a deal with the South to go
easy on integration, perhaps to ap-
point a Southerner as attorney- gen-
eral. Governor Hollings of South
Carolina, in an important early
speech, said that the democratic plat-
form (to which the South so violent-

ly objected) was forced on Kennedy,

 

 

 

and that Jack didn’t really like it.
The fact is that the platform was
written by Chester Bowles, an ar-
dent Kennedy man, and Kennedy has
since endorsed the platform over and
over again, mentioning specifically
those sections on integration. Now,
obviously there is something wrong.
Someone is being misled. Were it
not for the fact that the South is a
relatively unimportant battlefield,
these contradictions would be forced
into the open and a choice made.

The publicists who are forever
denouncing the religious bigotry of
some of Nixon’s supporters (if
Kennedy wins, they’re going to
build a tunnel from the White
House to the Vatican) never say
anything about the racial bigotry
of the Kennedy supporters (Nix-
on is a card-carrying member of
the N.A.A.C.P.).

But these nasty little political
tricks show that the Democrats are
worried, which should encourage
the newly filedged southern Republi-
cans. Perhaps the South can now
have a real two-party system, which
it needs (it’s a gain in Louisiana
when Davis wins the primary in-
stead of Long) even if it means that
John Fitzgerald Kennedy must lose.
It’s not too great a price to pay.

 

Dr. Marvin Perry Is New
Admissions Dean at UVa.

Dr. Marvin B. Perry, former head
of the English Department of Wash-
ington and Lee University, has taken
over the new position of University
of Virginia Dean of Admissions.

Perry, who was appointed during
the summer, will receive and coordin-
ate all applications to undergraduate
divisions of the University.

President of the University of Vir-
ginia Edgar Shannon, who himself is
a Washington and Lee graduate, com-
menting on Perry’s appointment, stat-
ed, “This new position is of vital sig-
nificance to the University of Virginia’s
future development. All of us here are
grateful that Mr. Perry has agreed to
return to his alma mater to undertake
this key administrative position.”

Speaking at graduation in June,

(Continued on page 4)

Webster Unabridged

TheReformation
Of ‘Bud Swizzle’

A strange sight caught my eye in
the Paramount the other night. It
was Bud Swizzle drinking a Coke.

Unable to restrain my curiosity, I
sat down at his table. Bud greeted
me jovially. “How are you, you old
..-’ he began, then checked him-
self,

“Old what?” I asked.

“Oh, I don’t know,..
maybe...”

Getting the drift of the wind, I
pursued: “Say Bud, you got a weed?”

“Well, I've only got five left, and
I was sort of saving those.”

“Why would anyone be saving
cigarettes?”

“T’ve got a plan,” he disclosed. “I
smoke two more today, two tomor-
row, one the next day—and then I’m
through with cigarettes.”

“And through with brew?” I asked,
nodding toward his nearly full glass
of Coke.

“Almost. I’m not drinking any-
time except between noon and mid-
night Saturdays.”

I asked Bud if someone had been
pressuring him.

“Helck, no,” he exclaimed.

“Helck?” I repeated.

“Oh, I forgot,” he mumbled, “I’m
allowed to say ‘hell’.”

“Who allows you?”

“Me. I allow myself. I’m nineteen
years old, and there’s no god...
there’s no goldarned reason why I
shouldn’t be able to determine how
the helck I live my own life!”

Seeing that Bud was in a defensive
mood now, I _ prodded further.
“Didn’t you give up smoking last
spring?”

“Well, yeah, but I was younger
then. Besides, I have a plan now.
I’ve got it all reasoned out.”

“Bud,” I said, “I really believe
you mean it. You must have a lot of
will power to throw off those old
habits. Yessir, Bud, you’re a man of
steel.”

“Yeah,” he said with satisfaction,
and gazed at the stuffed eagle on
the wall. Then he chugalugged his
Coke.

“Hey Larry,” he yelled to someone
at the bar. “Did you hear what I’ve
| done? I’ve mastered my vices!

.old fellow,

 

 

 

I Dip iT!
I WALKED RIGHT
INTO THE LI

BRARY,|| |A RATHER PLEASANT EXPERIENCE

 

THERE WAS NOTHING TO IT!
IN FACT ON THE WHOLE. IT WAS

—_—|

\

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

I (negei AS Rian) || Stl BAF Re
i EXPERIENCE... OUT ANOTHER BOOK SOMETIME!
)

zs

 

 

don’t know who the author is, do
you?...If it’s by a good author,
it’s a good play, naturally. That
stands to reason.”

—George Bernard Shaw

Mr. Shaw’s words creep into many
a student’s mind, as he prepares tc
write a critical analysis of some as-
signed work. Only the version may
run somewhat more like this: “You
don’t expect me to know what to
say about a work when I don’t know
what the professor thinks about it,
do you? If he likes it, I like it,
naturally. That stands to reason.

Patriots, Reds
Join Forces In
Japanese Riots

By GEORGE BIRDSONG

The recent actions by Japanese stu-
dents have been of much concern to
students all over the world. Ameri-
can students find them especially note-
worthy since we feel the pressure of
their results. Evidently these students
played an important role in the cancel-
lation of President Eisenhower’s tour
of Japan, and in the difficulties in-
volved in ratifying the Security Treaty.

I have recently had contact with
some Americans in Japan who were
trying to find the causes behind the
actions of Japanese students. As a
result, after closer examination of
the situation, I feel that it deserves
reappraisal. A large number of the
students were neither communist nor
anti-American. They were merely
students who were doing what they
thought best.

Comprehension of the actions of
these students can be increased by
looking at the conditions under which
the Japanese students have had to live
during the past, and how these con-
ditions are presently affecting them.

Patriotism Blamed

The students are intensely patriotic.
They expressed themselves with vigor
in opposing the Japanese Security
Treaty and the man who was respon-
sible for its passage, Premier Kishi.
There actions seem to have resulted
from several influences. Contemporary
Japanese youth has been convinced,
particularly by the Communists, that
war between Russia-China and the
U.S.A. is inevitable, and that Japan
must remain neutral and not become
the battleground. The Japanese have
never seen Communism in action, nor
have their newspapers told them of the
horrors of Communist control in Eu-
rope and Asia. But they have seen and
experienced war and bombing. They
are, therefore, far more afraid of the
return of Militarism to Japan than of
the advent of Communism, which, with
its propoganda, has promised such
a rosy future.

In this light, we can see how well-
meaning students can be led into
participating in activities such as
those which took place in Japan
only a few months ago. So let us not
conclude that all these students were
Communist or anti-American, al-
though many of them obviously
were, The great majority were simp-
ly Japanese patriots acting in what
they considered to be the best inter-
est of their country.

This is not to say that we should dis-
miss as insignificant any concern over
these recent events. On the contrary,
it is indeed discouraging that these
students have been convinced that vio-
lent demonstrations were the means
by which they must make themselves
heard. It is our duty to help the Jap-
anese student become more familiar
with Communist tactics and overall
strategy. Perhaps many of _ these
events should be blamed on our own
inability to present convincingly our
point of view.

The Ring-tum Phi

Tuesday Edition

 

 

The Ring-tum Phi is published Tues-
day and Friday during the college year.
It is printed by the Journalism Labor-
atorv Press, ashington and Lee Uni-
versity. The mailing address is Box
a Lexington, Va,

untered as second class matter Sep-
tember 20, 1946 at the Post Office, Lex-
ington, Va., under the act of March

National Advertising Representative:

  
 
 
  

The National Advertisers Ser
420 Madison Ave., New York. NY
ee Rosewel
Business Manager.............. tt athe teas
Editorial Board
anaging Editor.................... Bill rts
Assistant Managing Editor........ eer
tsssensvonsneneszenss Steve Galef
News Editor Bob Bridewell
7 So -Ss=eeeee Steve Guild
Peature BANG .ncsccccce | Harvey Allen

Associate Editors... alanny Butler, Bill
Smit
Copy WN erennnce "ame Wels
Hunter Mans
Photography Editor.................. Bill Young

 
 

THE RING-TUM PHI

Page 3

 

Generals Win Another

Red Devils Lose
In Second Game

The Washington and Lee Blue and
White increased their season’s winning
streak Saturday to 2-0 with their vic-
tory over the Red Devils of Dickin-
son. Two of the three Generals’ touch-
downs were made on pass plays with
the balance of the 23-6 score made up
of two runs and one conversion.

The first score of the game was
made by the Dickinson squad lead
by Walt Buckley, quarterback. The
45-yard scoring surge was begun
late in the first period and complet-
ed with a ten-yard pass to Roger
Smith who carried the ball to pay
dirt. The Red Devils failed to make
their extra point.

The Generals’ first score was made

in the second period when Steve Sut-

tle threw a ten-yard pass to end Dan ©
Blain and brought the score to a 6-6 |

tie. However, Jim Russ’s placement put
the Generals out front 7-6.

The Blue and White scored two

more TD’s in the second half due tog

Dickinson fumbles, an intercepted pass,
and a bad pass from center.

Suttle threw to end Ned Hobbs
for 36 yards and a third period score
after Bob Funkhouser had the only
pass interception of the game. Funk-
houser took a Walt Buckley pass on
his own 49 and carried it to the

 

Center Terry Fohs tumbles Dickinson runner

Freshmen Triumph Over Woodberry Forest Team, 13-0

The Brigadier Generals, W&L’s
freshman football team, won their
second game last Friday with a
13-0 score against Woodberry For-
est. The team, sparked by quarter-
back John McDaniel, dominated the

the third quarter when the team
really began to break loose. The first
of the pair was carried by Mc Dan-
iel from the 1-yard line after a drive
downfield. Stuart Yoffe hit pay dirt
for the second time on a plunge

Steve Suttle Is
This Week’s Star

(Ed. note. The Washington and
Lee player of the week will be se-
lected on the basis of his perform-
ance in the previous Saturday’s
game by the sports staff of the Tues-
day Edition of the Ring-tum Phi.)

Last Saturday’s victory can be at-
tributed to many things, but the one
factor which seems to stand out above
all is the excellent performance of
quarterback Steve Suttle. Suttle, a 185-
pound junior from Uvale, Texas, illus-
trated in the Dickinson game that he
is not only an asset in the ground
game but also in passing, which was
predicted to be weak this year. In the
game against the Red Devils he com-
pleted six passes out of nine for a
total of 105 yards. Two of these passes
were good for touchdowns and in ad-
dition he ran two of the extra points.

Suttle’s showing, however, is a re-
‘sult not only of his skill as a passer
!and runner but also because of his
| leadership ability on the playing field.
'Coach Lee McLaughlin, commenting
on this aspect of Suttle’s performance,
said: “Suttle takes over the responsi-
bility of quarterback quite well, and
this is one of the reasons for our suc-
cess so far.”

Last season Steve won the team’s
award for the “toughest” player be-

(Continued on page 4)

$O466066044444444444408

 

 

THE NEW

The Coaches Corner

F&M Judged

It was a nice ride home from Car-

ten, and there was a general feeling
of well being.

We came from behind to win the
game. Dickinson slowed us up on the
ground but our passing game provided
our scoring punch.

Captain Courtney Mauzy is my
choice for an unsung star. His blocking
was again excellent and his centering
was perfect. He was also the first man
down field on punts.

The Coaches and players feel that
we have a greater potential than we
have shown thus far. Our tackling and
blocking must improve this weekend.

Franklin and Marshall, our next op-
ponent, stopped us last year after we
had won our first two games. We are
determined to play a better game this
year.

The “Diplomats” lost last week to a
fine Johns Hopkins team on the last
play of the game. Our scouts rate them
as a better team than the one which
beat us 28 to 14 last year. They have
a swift attack which features the run-
ning of John Tomasco.

It should be a very fine game....

lisle. There had been no new injuries. |
The bumps and bruises were forgot- |

 

 

Coach McLaughlin

 

Soccer, X-C Teams Win

Washington and Lee’s cross-coun-
try team downed Randolph-Macon
yesterday, 24-37, on the Yellow
Jacket’s course. The victory was
Washington and Lee’s second straight
of the season.

The General’s harriers,
sophomore Mike Shank’s

(Continued on page 4)

led by
second

 

   

 

On Campus si.

(Author of “I Wasa comers
Loves of Dobie Cilk

Dwarf” _ Many
poet , etc.)

   

Dickinson 36. Suttle connected for
the score on the next play, and then
ran for the two point conversion.

game throughout and gave Wood-
berry only a few chances to even get
close to scoring.

White Top

Restaurant

 

(Continued on page 4)

 

 

 

.
: %
%

:
; ;
. +
: ;
} *
: %
: ;
: ;
. :
: $
;
. :
° %
:
: z
. :

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

 

 

 

 

= an 4 WHAT TO DO TILL THE
W&l’s third score came in the) [ON Souchcowns were score R di H . al d PSYCHIATRIST COMES
fourth quarter as quarterback Chuck aqgio ospit ; * 0 : i ep
Lane seared rom the teveel tee. REMAINING GAMES | ’ nce upon a time at the University of Virginia there was a
and then Joe Hess ran the two extra 9 * ; SS coed named, oddly enough, Virginia University who was hand-
points. on tis ae te Ganeeald >t ‘ A personal invitation some and kindly and intelligent and ingeniously constructed
- ie ee nae - . = oa Oct. Radio, TV, Phonograph to the and majoring in psychology. Virginia went steady with a young
yards on a punting situation and gave Oct. : . Students — ee named, oddly enough, Oddly Enough who was
Wat, the ball on te Didieeen & a Sales and Service z supple and fair and lithe and animated and majoring in phys ed.
Lane went over after an exchange a * % Try our delicious foods Virginia and Oddly enjoyed a romance that was as idyllic as
of fumbles deep in Dickinson territory. : * en a summer day, as placid as a millpond. Never did they fight—
The next game the Generals will HO 3-3531 * never, never, never!—because Virginia, who was majoring in
play will be against the Franklin and z psychology, did not believe in fighting. “Fighting,” she often
‘. . . ieces . “ : ° e : ‘ ’ ,
Marshall Diplomats on Wilson Field For those extra p foohefe ode oferfeofeofeoeofende ae ofeofefeoteate fends oe feterte said, “settles nothing. The scientific way is to look calmly for
in W&L’s Homecoming game. of the cause of the friction.”
YARDSTICK FURNITURE So whenever she and Oddly were on the verge of a quarrel,
he used to whip out a series of ink blot tests and th Id
W&L Dickin: for your room h = a
SR ne i. - ee pail piel The Sout ern Inn discover the true underlying cause of their dispute and deal
Rushing yardage ....... 174 50 before buying Cordially invites you to make this your headquarters for good food with it in an enlightened, dispassionate manner. Then, the
Passing yardage ........ 105 66 Here you get the best food for the most reasonable prices irritant removed, their romance would resume its tranquil,
ON ccsssstesesisnsesiirsaorns 6-9 7-21 He = serene, unruffled course.
Passes intercepted by 1 0 ur Specialties:
I sciciseicctieagl 4-328 5-368 || VARNER AND POLE : P ‘ =
Fumbles lost .....:s:sso0: 2 4 Steaks, Chicken, Country Ham, and the best sandwiches
Yards penalized ........ 46 35 in town
ae *t Meet your friends here
* We Feature ¥
% %
” -
: SEALTEST :
% %
* Dairy Products % ; ’
: y =| ROCKBRIDGE LAUNDRY ji. gh Rid:
* ee ” * ee Ee a ey:
z To get the best get Sealtest ; jail “eee \ ghey a
% ; i % i gs mr
: over ee in addition to ; D Cl \ (ul [/ he bald b L Ore Mie Up of 4
elicious Sealtest ice cream ry eaners é
% |
& +
+ Block and Crushed Ice + After six months of this sedate liaison, Oddly was so bored
* oe * ; a y
* Your favorite mixes—Ice Cold * Shirts Transparently Wrapped he could spit. He loved Virginia well enough, but he also be-
: ‘ lieved that people in love ought to fight now and then. “It
* : for Freshness opens the pores,” he said. ‘‘And besides, it’s so much fun mak-
+ e .
z . ing up afterwards.”
* Maple Rock Distributors, Inc. * * But Virginia would not be provoked into a quarrel. One night
+ Phone HO 3-2168 * AGENTS: Oddly tried very hard. “Hey,” he said to her, “your nose looks
* + : like a banana, and your ears look like radar antenna, and your
900000000000900006006000000 000000000550 000S 000068 Fraternities, Dorms and Co-op face looks like a pan of worms.”
COOHOOSSOSSOSHSSSSOHHOSHOHOHOHOSSESOOSHSSEHOHEOSCOSEOEES ’ = ; ‘ ; ee
My goodness, we’re hostile tonight!” said Virginia cheerfully
and whipped 120 Rorschach cards out of her reticule. “Come,”

 

 

 

 

 

 

she said, ‘let us examine your psychic apparatus.”

Oddly tried again. “You’re fat and dumb and disagreeable,”
he said, ‘‘and you’ll be bald before you're thirty.”

“Hmm,” said Virginia thoughtfully and lit a cigarette. ‘This
sounds like an anxiety neurosis with totemism, anagogic trauma,
and a belt in the back.”

“Thate you,” said Oddly. “I hate your looks and your clothes
and your toenails and your relatives and the cigarettes you
smoke.”

“Now, hold on, buster!” cried Virginia, her eyes crackling,
her color mounting, her nostrils aflame. “Just keep a civil
tongue in your stupid head when you talk about Marlboro!
Nobody’s knocking that filter, that flavor, that pack or flip-top
box while there’s breath in my body! It’s a full-flavored smoke,
it’s a doozy, it’s a dilly, it’s a gas—and anybody who says a
word against it gets this.”’

By “this” Virginia meant a series of combinations to the
head and liver, which she now delivered to Oddly and turned
on her heel and stormed away.

Oddly brought her down with a flying tackle. “I love you
with all my heart,” he said.

“And Marlboro?” said she.

“And Marlboro even more,” said he.

And they kissed and plaited love knots in one another’s hair

and were married at Whitsuntide and smoked happily ever after.
© 1960 Max Shulman

 

 

seecescooonpsennonsnsovsonnnreooseowoneneeesees

ve

Clothes Newest in Style
The Finest in Quality

 

Popular Priced
|
THE FIRST IN BRAND NAMES
ey

Manhattan Shirts—McGregor Sportswear

 

Munsingwear Underwear—Bass Shoes

STUDENT ACCOUNTS
INVITED HERE

Interwoven Socks—Rugby Sweaters

Resistol Hats

J. Ed Deaver & Sons, Inc.

Phone HO 3-2311

Regular or Special Accounts

The Peoples National Bank

101 South Main Street
Lexington, Virginia ;

ie %
| Member Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation * |

* * *

Lexington, Va.

ro ofo ole ole oleae feof ofa ode se oben oe fe ale ole oke erteoteofeokeofeokeoke ole ode ole ole ole ole ole ode ohe she oho oe ode oe sfo ole

You too can smoke happily—with Marlboro, or with
Marlboro’s unfiltered companion cigarette, Philip Morris—
available in regular size or the sensational new king size
Commander. Have a Commander—welcome aboard!

 

 

dove oeofeote fe ofoogente fe ofe stent te ote ote afetefeode ate ale ofeatenteaeneofe ate nte ate fe fente re ae ste ole bese ate ne afeade fee oe erte

:|

*
COSCO OOOOOOOEECO OOO OOOO OOO OOOO OOOO OOOOH OOOO OOS LeeeEe EEE Pee eee EEE SEE Eee EEE EEEEE EERE

 
Page 4

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

Rhodes Scholarship Nominees

(Continued from page 1)

ter is majoring in chemistry, and de-
sires to read chemistry at Oxford.

George Palmer Pardington, II, is
a Sigma Phi Epsilon senior from
Houma, La. Pardington is a mem-
ber of Phi Beta Kappa and Phi
Eta Sigma. In addition, he is an
officer of the Concert Guild and
Glee Club. Pardington will be ap-
plying for the scholarship given by
Louisiana. He is a European his-
tory major and desires to read
theology at Oxford.

Another nominee is James A.
Vann, III, who is a Phi Kappa Psi
from Birmingham, Ala. Vann is a
European history major and is apply-
ing for the scholarship that will al-
low him to read history at Oxford.
Vann is on the Honor Roll and
Dean’s List, and is holder of the
Davidson Scholarship. He was presi-

 

Perry Becomes UVa. Dean

(Continued from page 3)

Shannon noted that the number of ap-
plicants seeking admission for the
1960-61 session was the largest in the
past ten years. Last week, he further
stated that this session’s incoming clas
was one of the largest in the Univer-
sity’s history.

A graduate of the University of
Virginia, Dr. Perry was a member of
the English faculty there from 1947
to 1951. Since then he has been teach-
ing at Washington and Lee where he
was named head of the English facul-
ty three years ago.

James E. Kinard, director of admis-
sions to the College at the University
of Virginia, will continue his duties
under the title of Assistant Dean of
Admissions.

Dr. Perry was born in Powhatan
Va., and attended public schools in
Atlanta, Georgia, as well as Newton,
Massachusetts. After graduating from
the University in 1940, he received his
M.A. and Ph.D. degrees from Harvard
University.

 

 

OPN. SS Meeks la!

STATE

LEXINGTON, VA.

 

dent of the junior class, and is now
president of the Dance Board, the |
Concert Guild, and a senior repre-|
sentative to the Executive Commit- |
tee.

Kent Frazier is a senior from
Tampa, Fla. Frazier, a KA, is pres-
ident of the Student Body, Phi
Eta Sigma, and a member of ODK.
He is a Dean’s List and Honor Roll
student. Frazier is a history ma-
jor and is applying to the Rhodes
Scholarship Committee in Florida
to read history at Oxford.

The final nominee is Nathan P. B.
Simpson. Simpson is an English ma-
jor and would like to read English
at Oxford. He is a KA from Tampa,
Fla. Simpson is editor of the Fri-
day Edition of the Ring-tum Phi,
president of the KA house, cadet
colonel and student commander of
the ROTC. He is a member of the
Publications Board and the Execu-
tive Committee.

 

Homecomings Schedule

Friday, Oct. 7
2:00 p.m.—Alumni Board of Trus-
tees meeting, Moffatt Seminar Room,
Payne Hall 26.
7:30 p.m—Pep Rally forms
Doremus Gymnasium.

Saturday, Oct. 8

9:00 a.m.—Registration of Alumni
at the Student Union.

10:00 am.—Alumni Coffee Hour,
Evans Hall, East Foyer.

12:00 noon—Alumni
Evans Dining Hall.

2:00 p.m.—Football Kickoff, Wilson
Field.

5:00 p.m.—Post-game “Happy
Hour,” Robert E. Lee Hotel Mez-
zanine.

at

Luncheon,

Notice
Those students who still have
money outstanding on Dance Plans
can pay it to members of the Dance
Board who will be in the Co-op
on Wednesday and Thursday.

 

 

 

LAST TIMES TODAY
Matinee 2 p.m—Evening 8 p.m.

JEFFREY

HUNTER

DAVID

JANSSEN

vic PATRICIA

FOAMONE. OWENS

An ATLANTIC PICTURES PRODUCTION
An ALLIED ARTISTS RELEASE

   
    
   
  

 

WED.-THURS.

   

 

 

 

WED.-THURS.

  
     

DAYS THAT SHOOK ;
THE WORLD!

ais

 

 

 

VARSITY
BILLIARD
ACADEMY

Catering

To Students

Corner of

Washington and Jefferson

 

 

 

 

 

The First National Bank

of Lexington
*
has special checking accounts

for students

Notices
(Continued from page 1)

led, due to circumstances beyond
the control of the scheduled speak-
er.
The same meeting will be re-
scheduled at a later date.
* + *

All those who did not receive a
Finals edition of the Southern Col-
legian last June may pick one up
at the Student Union.

*« * ca

There will be a rally of the Stu-
dents for Kennedy Club tonight at
7:30 in the Student Union.

* * *

RADIO W&L SCHEDULE

Tuesday night (Oct. 4); Concert

An American Program: George
Gershwin, “An American in Paris”;
Richard Rogers, “Victory at Sea”;
Aaron Copland, “Billy the Kid”;
William Schuman, “New England
Triptych.”
Wednesday night (Oct. 5); Patterns |

Kirby Stone Four, Ella Fitzgerald, |
Johnny Mathis, Ted Heath, Percy
Faith, Esquivel, Les Elgert, and mu-
sic from the broadcast recording of
“Can-Can.”
Thursday night (Oct. 6); Jazz Echoes
Mose Allison, College All Stars, Lena
Horne, Benny Goodman, Thelonius
Monk, Dukes of Dixieland, Cal Tjad-
er, Andre Pervin, Louis Armstrong,
Dakota Station, Erroll Garner.

* * %

There will be a meeting of the
editorial staff of the Tuesday Edi-
tion of the Ring-tum Phi at 2 p.m.
in the Student Union.

LPP eeeeeeEEaTTeges

: IDEAL =
* BARBER SHOP
: QUICK SERVICE =
* +
% *

 

Hertedeteoeobobobeteteceoboboteteteototeteseotoblog

fe Heobebonde ote ode fete ole fe ofe oe oe oe ste ofa oe ole ote ole stools

LEELA EAS eS Loeb E sbeebs

Shirt Service as You Like it
Quality Cleaning and Pressing

UNIVERSITY CLEANERS
HO 3-3622

*
“Your Campus Neighbors”

Sports Editorial

By STEVE GUILD

Last Saturday’s game against Dick-
inson has disproved another popular
belief that has afflicted the Generals’
football team for the past few seasons.
This belief was simply that we could
not win an away game. True, we did
win the Washington U. game last year
and missed the Sewanee game by only
a point but that was only “luck.”

However, a victory for the Blue and
White in their first away game of the
season proves that either our “luck”
has improved or that the team lost
their jinx and has more confidence. It
would seem that the latter is more
convincing.

The showing of the team, while not
spectacular and perhaps not as good as
was hoped, was a much different one
than the previous week. There was
noticed a greater concentration on the
passing game in opposition to the
ground game which had been predicted
to be the point of emphasis of this
year’s squad. Two of the three touch-
downs which our team scored were on
pass plays and figures show that we
completely routed the Red Devils in
passing yardage.

We are lucky that this week’s game
is another home game because the
Diplomats are sure to be the toughest
team we have met to date.

 

Soccer Team Beats R-M

(Continued from page 3)

place finish took seven out the first
ten places.

Upon returning to Lexington,
Coach Dick Miller said, “Our boys
did very well considering the course
they ran. I think our showing Mon-
day well exemplifies our team bal-
ance. This is the one thing which
we have missed in the past years.”

This Saturday the cross-country
team meets Hampden-Sydney on our
home course. The meet will begin
at half-time of Washington and Lee’s
Homecoming game against Franklin
and Marshall.

Washington and Lee’s soccer team
rolled to its second straight win by
downing Randolph-Macon College
by a 3-0 count. All of the Generals’
goals were scored in the first quar-
ter.

Jim Starkey, playing the right in-
side position accounted for two of
the goals. Wick Hollingshead, right
wing, also scored for the five-star
Generals. Fine performances were
also turned in by linesmen Dick
Housley and Starkey. Frank Smith
performed exceptionally well at the
midfield position.

 

 

Green Valley Motel

One Mile North on
U. S. Highway No. 11

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA
HO 3-2195

 

BROWN’S
CLEANING
WORKS
We call for

and deliver
HO 3-2013 14 Randolph St.

 

 

 

Freshman Football
(Continued from page 3)

from the 3-yard line.

In assessing the team so far, Coach
Hal Bates had this to say: “This
year’s team has been coming along
very fine, perhaps even better than
last year’s. But we still need a lot
of work.” The coach also said he
thought the team did a fine job
Friday and that in the second half
we could have made as many touch
downs as there was time to make.

The frosh’s next game will be a
week from this Friday, October 14,
at Staunton Military Academy. This
is predicted to be one of the team’s
hardest games of the season.

 

Player of the Week

(Continued from page 3)

cause of his hard-hitting and speedy
running. He led all rushers last year
with a total yardage of 263, a 3.9 av-
erage. His average for last Saturday’s
game was a 3.0.

 

 

White’s Music

Store

(Opposite State Theater)
ik
Phonographs—Hi-Fi
Expert Repair Service
i

5 W. Nelson St.
HO 3-3522

Lexington, Va.

CO A A A A
eS se ee ee eee eee
Me Me Ma Me ate he Me te te te he he he te te te te te te te a ite he te te he te te te te te te te te
eee ee ee ee eee eT eT ere eT OO

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Open a convenient student Checking account
TODAY

at

Rockbridge National Bank

Member Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Ted’s Steak House

Finest

SUNDAY

Choice Meats
Ww

Route 60 Buena Vista

Foods

DINNERS

 

Tareyton has the taste

Dual Filter
does it!

NEW pt FILTER la Te eyvt On

6 fy > “WD .
Product of Sho Amarivan Sebaceo Company — JSubaceo is our middle name @a7 co

Filters for

flavor
—finest flavor by far!

 

   

Ly

 
    

Here’s how the DUAL FILTER DOES IT:

1, It combines a unique inner filter of ACTIVATED CHARCOAL
... definitely proved to make the taste of a cigarette mild and

smooth...

2. with a pure white outer filter. Together they select and balance
the flavor elements in the smoke. Tareyton’s flavor-balance gives
you the best taste of the best tobaccos.

 

 
 

 

 

Is There Justification for “Honorary” Abuse?

It seems appropriate at this time to call to the at-
tention of all social groups on the campus the following
statement issued by the Administrative Committee of
the Faculty in October, 1959:

1. It is specifically understood that the prohibition
by the Board of Trustees of physical punishment in con-
nection with fraternity initiations applies specifically to
all student groups on the campus.

2. It is further understood that no demonstration of
conduct discreditable to the institution will be permitted
on the part of any social fraternities or clubs.

3. It is understood that any violations of either of the
two above stated conditions would merit immediate abol-
ishing of the offending organization.

FRANK J. GILLIAM, Chairman

Administrative Committee

It is not the purpose of an editorial to harass or browbeat—
we are perhaps more aware of this than our readers are. Rather,
we feel an editorial should serve worthwhile intentions and strive
for gains otherwise publicly unheralded.

With this in mind, consider the spirit in which the following

This university is one of adequate capacity whose goal
is never static. Its serious minded students are joining with dedi-
cated administrators and faculty to meet the demands of a good
education—this we all know and will continue to praise. Our
progress has recently become an accelerating phenomenon
which we witness with zeal and pride.

For anything worthwhile to exist on the campus of Wash-
ington and Lee, it must cherish a definite purpose—one which
has the welfare and education of a mature individual in mind.
This is the incentive for our progress. It is presently complicated
by the presence of customs, groups and institutions which are
undesirable and fail to approach the high standards of this
university, although they have enjoyed a period of considerable
longevity.

The various and vigorous adminstrative branches of this
university, be they student or faculty, have undertaken to re-
move such undesirable facets of Washington and Lee life.

Each year academic and social idealism is shattered with
the appearance of the “honorary societies” and their rites upon
this campus. Members of the sophomore class have been sub-
jected to brutal paddling, the selected junior initiates undergo
somewhat the same physical abuse, and “mature” seniors along

There can be no obvious justification for such practices. The
college at large suffers from these “recognition” or “puberty”
ceremonies long after the voluntary initiates’ bruises and
wounds are healed.

We would like to cite several points from the notice that ap-
peared on the ODK board which we have printed above. The
ruling of the Administrative Committee of the Faculty in con-
junction with that of the Board of Trustees specifically states
its jurisdiction over violations in connection with initiations of
all student groups on campus and not just those organizations
which openly flaunted their membership.

Secondly, the declaration forbids any demonstration of con-
duct discreditable to the institution. The fame that these or-
ganizations bring to Washington and Lee should be avoided at
any cost. They are definitely liabilities to an adult environ-
ment—especially to a university in which academic assets are
paramount such as ours.

If these organizations, PAN, White Friars, the ‘‘13’’ Club,
and Sigma, (along with those organizations that have no
known name) can show logical justification for their permance
here then let it be recorded. Otherwise let us as a Twentieth

 

with flattered juniors are branded with a hot iron.

 

Century University discard this Medieval dross.

 

FRIDAY
Edition

King-tun Phi

Washington and Lee Semi-Weekly Newspaper

FRIDAY
Edition

 

is written.
Volume LXI

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA, OCTOBER 7, 1960

Number 7

 

Pigskin, Rally, Girls
Spark Homecomings

A Pep Rally, which has been three
weeks in the planning, will officially
open Homecomings activities to-
night at 7:30.

The rally which has been planned
by the Varsity Club in conjunction
with the IFC will begin with the
introduction of the candidates for
Homecoming Queen. Following sev-
eral cheers, led by the cheerleaders,
Coach McLaughlin will make some
comments.

comings displays will be judged.
This judging will be done by an im-
partial committee whose member-
ship is not disclosed at this time.
The first display judging will be at
8:30 Friday evening, and another
will follow on Saturday morning.
The winners will be announced at
half-time of the game Saturday and
will be presented with prizes from
the Washington and Lee Alumni As-
sociation. These prizes, which are on
display at the College Town Shop,
are: first prize, a silver tray; second
prize, W&L chair; third prize, gift
certificate for records from White’s
Music Shop; fourth prize, a large
wooden salad bowl.

Delta Tau Delta has captured first
prize for Homecomings displays for
the past three years.

All fraternities are required to
have their candidates for Queen at
the gym by 7:15 tonight and at
Wilson Field Saturday at 1:30.

Torchlight Parade

Following the Rally, the freshman
torchlight parade through town will
begin. The parade is to go east on
Washington street, turn south on Lee
avenue, east on Nelson street, north
at Main street, and then left at
Henry street which will take it
through Red Square.

Each fraternity may have two
decorated cars in the parade. One of
these cars is to carry the Home-
comings Queen candidate. Officials
request that the cars be in line by
7:15.

Judging for the Spirit Trophy, won
last year by the Phi Gams, will be-
gin at the parade. Judging for the
trophy will be based on the par-
ticipation of the entire fraternity, not
just the pledge class, officials say.

“Quite Pleased”

Head cheerleader, Steve Danzan-
sky, had this to say in reference to
the Pep Rally: “We are quite pleased
with the general enthusiasm which
has been shown for the Pep Rally
thus far this week. We hope to be-
gin a resurgance of spirit at W&L
with this rally, but it can only be
accomplished with the support of the
entire student body.”

Also on Friday night, the Home-

Saturday Events
Saturday activities begin with an
Alumni coffee in the morning. The
Alumni Fund Council will also meet
| Saturday morning to discuss the an-
nual solicitation for the alumni fund.
The Alumni Association will be
host to the alumni at a noon lunch-
eon in Evans Dining Hall. Three
hundred and fifty to 400 persons,
including Alumni Association presi-
dent Mr. Paul Shuford, are expect-

ed to attend the luncheon.

Kick-off at Two

Kick-off time for the football game
with Franklin and Marshall College
is 2 p.m. At half-time three bands
will perform. These bands will be
the W&L Pep Band, the Franklin
and Marshall Band and the Halifax
Marching Band.

Other half-time activities will in-
clude the crowning of the 1960
Homecomings Queen. One of 18 love-
lies will be chosen by a faculty
committee to succeed Mrs. Geneva
Fitzhagen, the Beta Theta Pi can-

(Continued on page 4)

 

 

 

 

Dr. and Mrs. Cole along with Dean and Mrs. Pusey greeting freshmen at |
a reception held in the president's home Tuesday evening,

| Freedom by

1959 Homecomings Queen

Who will be this year’s Queen?

 

German Works
In Shenandoah

The Fall issue of Shenandoah,
Washington and Lee University’s lit-
erary magazine, will be centered
around an examination of contem-
porary German literary creativity.

Under the editorship of Dr. Wil-
liam W. Pusey, Dean of the College
and chairman of Washington and
Lee’s department of German the
volume will feature a collection of
previously unpublished translations
of contemporary German literary
achievements.

In cooperation with the Inter
Nationes in Bonn, Germany, Dr.
Pusey has assembled six short stories,
one written by Heinrich Boll, the
author of three novels which are
currently available on American
newsstands in translation.

Three poems with original Ger-
man texts will be found in the Fall
Shenandoah, which is scheduled for
publication sometime during the first
week of November.

Three essays will fill out the rest
of this volume, one of four issues of
Shenandoah at Washington and Lee.
The essays will deal with the topics
of “Modern German Literature,”
“The German University,” and “Ger-
man Music.”

The Washington and Lee litar-
ary magazine has featured in the
past such writers as William Faulk-
ner, Katherine Anne Porter, Arnold
Toynbee and others.

Sprunt Named Member
Of State Religious Group

Dr. David W. Sprunt, associate
dean of students and chairman of
the department of religion at Wash-
ington and Lee University, has been
named to a_ statewide committee
formed to combat religious bigotry
in the presidential campaign.

Dean Sprunt was named to the
Virginia Committee on Religious
Col. Francis Pickens
Miller of Charlottesville, coordinator
of the 40-member committee.

The basic aim of the committee is
to aid in keeping discussions of the
religious issue in the campaign on a
reasonable and intelligent level.

‘ Bob Allen Has
| Lead In First

 

 

“Greatest Show on Earth”
Is Openings Dance Theme

 

Troub Play

On the 16, 17, and 18, of Novem-
ber, the W&L Troubadour Theatre
will present its first play of the year.
The production is Cristopher Fry’s
comedy The Lady’s Not for Burn-
ing.

The lead roles of Thomas Mendip
and Jennet Jourdemayne will be
played by John Dunnell and Mar-
garet Davis respectively. The May-
or will be played by Bob Allen. Dick
Roberts will take the role of Richard,
the Mayor’s clerk.

Nicholas and Humphrey Devise will
be played by Ron Allestein and
Firth Spiegel; the Chaplain is Andy
Leonard and Bob Aylin will play
Justice Tappercoom. Tim Morton
will take the part of the drunken
Matthew Skipps. Tim is also the
Stage Manager for the play. The
PiKA housemother, Mrs. Ruth
Brown, will take the part of Mar-
garet Devise, the mother of Nich-
olas and Humphrey. The part of
Alizon will be filled by Lisa Tracy.

The Lady’s Not for Burning is a
comedy in verse.

 

Capperales Formed From
Freshman Singing Group

Washington and Lee’s new singing
group, the Capperales, made their
first public appearance at the fresh-
man reception given at President
Cole’s home Tuesday evening.

The Capperales were organized
this fall with a group of sophomores
as the nucleus. These sophomores
had been last year’s Glee Club fresh-
man group. They will work together
with the Glee Club, and will sing
at all Glee Club appearances.

The Capperales will next appear
Oct. 22 at the Glee Club’s Parents’
Weekend concert, to which all stu-
dents and parents are invited.

Members of the new group are
Jim Mill, Tommy Edwards, Bill
Cromley, Tom Jordan, Art Broaddus,
Dave Streetman and Paul Farley
Sam Channell is president of the
group and Wes Ostergren is the busi-
ness manager.

Retired Cornell Professor
Speaks Tuesday in duPont

Dr. Perkins, retired professor of

 

American civilization at Cornell
University, will speak at 8 p.m. Tues- |
day, Oct. 11, in duPont auditorium. |

Dr. Perkins will speak on “The|
American Attitude Toward War and |
Peace.” He is considered an expert|
on the
written several books on the subject. |

Dr. Perkins is a graduate of Har-
vard and holds a degree from Union

(Continued on page 4)

i

Monroe Doctrine, and has | |

By Tom Rains, Associate Editor
“The Greatest Show on Earth.” That is the theme of the
1960 Opening Dance Set. Openings will be a full weekend,
beginning with the cocktail party on Friday afternoon at th
Mayflower Inn. TNT Trible, “the walking drummer,” is
scheduled to play for the party.
Once again the Ringling Brothers and Barnum and Bailey

 

Alumni Fund
To Be Discussed

The Alumni Fund Council of
Washington and Lee University’s
Alumni Association will meet dur-
ing homecoming activities Saturday
to consider a re-emphasis of fund
raising for the association.

The seven-man council will meet
at 9:30 am. Saturday to discuss
new fund-raising methods for the
alumni fund, which has been inac-
tive during Washington and Lee’s
nearly-completed capital funds cam-
paign.

The council meeting will follow
the 9 a.m. registration of the more
than 400 alumni and guests expected
for Washington and Lee’s annual
homecoming weekend.

Highlight of the homecoming
weekend will be the football game
between Washington and Lee and
Franklin and Marshall College
scheduled for 2 p.m. on the univer-
sity’s Wilson Field. For the first
time in several years two marching
bands will be present for a Wash-
ington and Lee game. The Frank-
lin and Marshall band will be on
hand along with the Halifax High
School marching band. The W&L

 

Pep Band will assist.

The game will be preceded by an}
alumni luncheon at noon in the
Evans Dining Hall.

* extravaganza has hit the scene. That

show that has for ages touched the
hearts of old and young alike will
make another of its thrilling and
chilling exhibitions here on the
campus.

Pearce Hardwick, President of the
Dance Set, announced this afternoon
that the never-dying circus show will
illuminate the walls of the Dore-
mus Gymnasium on the evening of
October 28 for the Formal Dance of
the weekend. He mentioned that the
theme is an old one to those who
will attend but it will be new here
at Washington and Lee.

Reworking Gym

There has been a complete re-
working of the decor of the gym
in that the age-old false ceiling
which has been used in the past has
been replaced by an attractive tent
top arrangement which will add im-
mensely to the atmosphere.

Another change is that the idea
of centering the affair around one
object has been abandoned. Every
aspect of the occasion of Oct. 28
will be worked in so that there is an
equal distribution of entertainment
throughout the dance hall. However,
Hardwick emphasized that the at-
mosphere will not be in the tradi-
tional gaudy colors of the circus but
will be of a somewhat subdued na-
ture.

A continuous mural will decorate
one wall of the gymnasium, empha-
sizing the three rings in which the

(Continued on page 4)

 

Group of Young Democrats

 

Poe

during organization! meeting held Tuesday

evening.
Page 2
Che King-tum Phi
Homecomings 1960

Tonight the extravaganza that we anticipate to be Home-
comings begins. A result of much planning, the well organized
and sponsored Pep Rally and Parade will initiate what we hope
will be a weekend of currently unequaled spirit.

 

The series of events leading up to Saturday’s game have
one primary purpose. This is not the entertainment of old
graduates although such a function is a necessary part of
Homecomings. The purpose of Homecomings 1960 is to pro-
vide another link in the chain of progress which seeks to im-
prove the direction of a student at Washington and Lee. By
attempting to unite the exuberance of a student body and there-
by dispell its apathy, Homecomings will record its contribution.

The university has a football team of which it can be justly
proud, but the pride and spirit generated this weekend should
not and will not culminate with, and then disintegrate after,
the game tomorrow.

At long last there are those at this university who are con-
verting idealism into practice. The ramifications of this conver-
sion are becoming evident daily. Athletics is just one of the
many areas which are approaching desired fulfillment.

We urge the student body at large to join with those indi-
viduals who are promoting this university as well as its teams
and make “our” Homecomings an outstanding success.

Progress And Problems

We would like to commend our president, Dr. Fred C.
Cole, for the long awaited reformation in McCormick Library
which he has instituted.

Cognizant of student needs, Dr. Cole first eliminated the
inadaquate lighting in the library, replacing the archaic globes
with an abundance of excellent modern fixtures.

Secondly, the extension of library hours in the evenings
from 10:30 to 12:00 especially accommodates the academic
needs of students. This extra hour and a half will prove itself
an exceptional asset to our community.

Last year, the Ring-tum Phi suggested the renovation of
the second floor room known as the “Gallery,” a step which
we heartily endorse at this time.

There remains, however, a library problem not resolved.
Regardless of the excellent reforms, there is a dramatic need
for space—both for studying and research work.

This room affords a floor space similar in measurement to
the two reading rooms down stairs and would support ample
table and shelf room.

Presently, the room serves no concrete purpose. Its one-
time function of exhibiting painting was eliminated with the
construction of the duPont Hall Gallery.

We feel that the administration recognizes this need for
additional space in the library, and we hope that the problem
will be approached with the characteristic vigor and awareness
that met the other deficiencies in the library.

A Gentleman

We are morally obligated to the Washington and Lee tra-
ditions. This obligation came to us at the same time our ac-
ceptance into this institution did. Most of us make an honest
effort to meet our obligation; the few of us who do not are
reminded to do so by the Assimilation Committee.

One freshman recently carried the fulfillment of his ob-
ligation to perfection. Through his one act the entire freshman
class expressed its assimilation into the student body. The fresh-
man assimilated himself for not wearing a tie to class. Needless
to say, the Assimilation Committee was more than duly im-
pressed.

This freshman, in an act which some would call naive or
even “stupid,”’ turned his name in because he felt a moral ob-
ligation to the tradition. He said so. And he was not being naive
or stupid, he was being a better W&L Gentleman than the rest
of us can ever hope to be. If the remainder of the student body
had his attitude, there would be no need for an assimilation
committee, cold check committee, or a judicial meeting of the
Executive Committee.

It is true, too, that the freshmen have better assimilated
themselves into the student body. Only 18 cases of failure to
wear the beanie have come before the committee this year.
We understand that the average number of cases per week last
year exceeded 18.

Such facts show the freshmen are adapting themselves well.
Indeed, they seem to be more respectful of traditions than the
upperclassmen. Will it be necessary that we of the upperclasses
learn respect for our traditions from those who follow us?

—G. E. H.

We Agree

In conjunction with the editorial written in the Tuesday
edition of the Ring-tum Phi, we would like to vigorously en-
dorse Mr. Page’s suggestion that the staffs of the Ring-tum Phi
be provided with the necessary quarters in which to prepare
the newspaper.

Both the Tuesday and Friday staffs are handicapped due
to the present situation and a certain amount of inefficiency re-
sults,

To expedite the publishing of the Ring-tum Phi and to elim-
inate definite and recurring print shop headaches, we join in
Tuesday’s plea for an adequate office.

THE RING-TUM PHI

By ROY GOODWIN
Assistant Managing Editor

As the old saying goes, “Movies
Are Better than Ever.” This saying,
however, doesn’t seem to have much
effect on the Washington and Lee
Student body.

Both of Lexington’s motion pic-
ture theatres are apparently doing
little or next to no business at all
with the W&L student body, Lex-
ington’s two theatre managers said
today.

No Freshman Support
What are the reasons for the empty
theatres?
Ed Side, owner and manager of
the Lyric Theatre, answered the
question by saying, “We don’t see
the freshmen around any more.”
“They've apparently been indoc-
trinated by the school,” Side said
“but not by the movies.”

Ralph I. Daves, manager of Stan-
ley Warner’s State Theatre, agreed
with Side in saying that his business
had been hurt by an apparent lack |
of freshman support.

Commons Is Problem

As for the cause of the downfall
of the formerly large “flick teams,”
both managers agreed that the Com-
mons and the strengthening of Wash-
ington and Lee academically have
had a great deal to do with it.
“Since freshmen are now eating
in the Commons,” Side said, “and
are no longer eating in the fraterni-
ties, the upperclassmen are not
‘chaperoning’ the freshman when
they go to the movies.”

As State Theatre’s Daves said,
“The freshmen are, it seems to me,
not out in town for their meals,
and are isolated on the hill.”

More Studying Now
The Lyric’s manager, Side, said
that he thought that the freshmen
are no longer heading for the movies:

 

Commons and Books En

 

because they are “heading for the
books!”

Daves said that he thought that
two things were causing the slowup
at the movies. There are, he said,
more for the students to do now with

, competition from television, sports,

and more general activities.
The second reason, he said was
the books.

Old Flick Teams Fail

When asked if they were still see-
ing the formerly large “flick teams,”
both managers agreed that the teams
have now dwindled to almost noth-
ing.

“We never see the great masses
we used to see,” Side added.

Flick Teams

: or
Photos by Renshaw

trying to get “the best pictures

Daves said that he thought that}
that have been released.”

maybe the flick teams haven't elected
captains yet. There was a note of
optimism in his voice.

Quality the Same

As for quality of the pictures that
the houses are now playing, both
managers agreed that the quality
of the pictures that they are getting
is just as good, if not better, than
formerly.

Side said that he thought that
the quality of the movies had little
or nothing to do with this case.
“We're getting the same quality of
movies,” he said, “that we’ve always
gotten.”

Daves said that his theatre was

“We have to play a movie,” he
said, “for a length of time because
the purchase of the right to show a
movie calls for it. This, he added, is
the reason for the long-run movies
in Lexington.”

Both Side and Daves have a
number of top movies that are com-
ing to Lexington in the near fu-
ture. They both expressed their
hopes that students attendance will
improve.

According to Daves “Ben Hur”
will be at the State probably around
the first of January.

 

 

By ROBERT C. KETCHAM
and VICTOR K. LASSITER

In this campaign so pregnant with
issues which remain to plague the
student the most frequent accusa-
tions being slung about campus are
the slogans, Socialist and Welfare
State. This effort to find labels which
destroy the particulars in a debate
is prevelant on one side of this
campaign and typical of the negative
thinking in evidence.

The conservative, negative ap-
proach is to oppose all progressive
and needed legislation such as aid
to education, public housing, high-
way building and development of
natural resources because only by
resisting any and all legislation do
they think that they can keep from
becoming engulfed. Not that Re-
publicans are not for this or that
measure per se, but they are afraid
of the forwardness of the movement
and resort to sticking names on the
total concept of progress. This at-
tempt has been used before: Re-
publicans have flayed these tired
slogans for such progressive pub-
lic programs as the Federal Re-
serve System, the Federal Land
Bank System, an eight-hour day on
railroads, child labor legislation, soil
conservation, social security and
TVA. Such labelogy might conform
to the Zeitgeist, but it is poor think-
ing and evades the issue.

Prime Example

Richard Nixon gives a prime ex-
ample with his search for identity:
while trying to give himself a lib-
eral gloss by aligning himself with
Rockefeller he seeks to identify the
policies of the Eisenhower admin-
istration with his own image; an
obvious fallacy. John Kennedy’s
energy, fresh approach and _ intel-
lectual breadth is a more realistic
approach to the difficulties that are
facing us. He does not avert an
issue when he says, “the harsh facts
of the matter are that we as a na-
tion face a hard, tough course ahead.”

In the field of foreign affairs there
is more evidence of the difference
between the Democratic and the Re-
publican parties and the relative po-
sition and concept of each party.
Nixon has come out with a catchy
phrase in regards to our nation’s
present dilemma: “A record is not

 

something to stand on, it is some-

Constructive and Dynamic
Kennedy Is For America

thing to build on.” The sad fact of

the matter is that we have been,

merely standing, not building, dur-
ing the last seven and a half years,
and we have been standing on a
rather shaky fence at that.

Maintain Status Quo

The Republican party and the
Eisenhower Administration have
tried to maintain the status quo in-
stead of building up US. prestige
and strength of the free world. The
U.S. has manifested absolutely no
positive program of foreign policy;
for example, Eisenhower’s blunder
in walking into the Japanese riots,
the uncoordinated lies over the U-2
incident, and the administration’s
failure to comprehend the left-wing
situation in Cuba during the latter
years of the Batista regime.

On the other hand, Senator Ken-
nedy has constantly manifested a
position of constructive thinking and
positive action in the field of for-
eign relations. Senator Kennedy is
chairman of the Senate foreign re-
lations subcommittee on Africa, and
is an authority on foreign affairs in
general.

Kennedy's Works

Senator Kennedy has written Why
England Slept, The Strategy of
Peace, and a booklet entitled A
Nation of Immigrants in addition to
three articles: “A Democrat Looks at
Foreign Policy,” Foreign Affairs; “If
India Falls,” The Reporter; and
“Foreign Policy is the People’s Busi-
ness,” N.Y. Times Magazine. Mr.
Nixon has also published some work
in this field: The Challenge We Face
(a collection of speeches), and an
article published in the Reader’s Di-
gest, “Legacy of John Foster Dulles.”

Forecful Leadership

A dynamic, forceful leadership in
this country will require sacrifice on
the part of the people, despite Mr.
Nixon’s implications to the con-
trary. To regain our prestige in the
world and our economic strength at
home we need leadership rooted in
character and responsibility. In this
national election we would like to
believe that the persons who feel the
need for national strength, prestige
and development would not be con-
fused by the labels used by a party

 

in their fight for complacency.

 

Vann Praises Library Reforms;

Doesn’t Like Locked Shelves

By JAMES VANN
Friday Columnist

This year has seen a number of
much needed and well deserved re-
forms in the Mc-
Cormick Library.
This is only one
indication of the
new era that is
coming to the
University and the
student body has
reason to expect
that these imp-
provements’ will
only be the begin-
ning of many long
awaited changes.
Not only have new lights been in-
stalled in the library reading rooms,
but the stacks and the reading rooms
are now to remain open until mid-
night.

Needed Improvements

As has been said earlier these are
certainly much needed improve-
ments and they should help each
student in his studies. Yet more im-
portant ,these reforms show that the
university is willing to do its part
in providing opportunities for the
student body. But, the question now
remains up for debate as to whether
the students will do their part to
fulfill their part of the contract.
Unfortunately it looks as though
there are still some benighted people
who don’t realize the nature of their
contract—particularly as far as the
Library is concerned.

be even more flagrant and yet it is
here that the THEFTS have even
more lethal results. For example, in
an advanced German class, the pro-
fessor told his students that due to
the difficulty and antiquity of much
of the German they would be trans-
lating, the students might find it
necessary throughout the year to
consult profesisonal translations. He
mentioned that there were several
of these translations available in
the library but there were two of
especial importance and value which
he had placed on reserve. Well, the
words were hardly out of the man’s
mouth before the books were taken—
stolen if you please—from the re-
serve shelf. What’s now to become
of the other students who will need
to consult the books! Its just their
tough luck and one student now
has it always at his convenience.

Locked Shelves

Because of incidents just like this
the faculty and Mr. Coleman have
had to resort to something that no
school which makes such a to-do
about being gentlemen should have
and that’s a locked reserve shelf. The
books that several students need now
have to be placed under lock and
key so the gentlemen won’t make off
with them and one of the library
staff must now spend half his time
locking and unlocking books. This to
me is something that should hardly
be necessary if one is dealing wih
gentlemen, for sneak thievery is
hardly compatible with anyone’s
definition of gentlemanly conduct.

Che Ring-tum Phi
Friday Edition

The Ring-tum Phi is published Tues-
day and Friday during the college year.
It is printed w, the Journalism Labor-
ery Press, Washington and Lee Uni-
versity. The mailing address is Box
899, Lexington, Va,

Entered ag second class matter Sep-

 

“Only Borrowing”

Many seem to look on the library
rules—rules that are necessary to
enable the library to run with an
efliciency—as cumbersome obstacles
in the way of their own success. It
seems absurd to some that the mag-
azines or Encyclopedias aren’t al-
lowed out of the building and so they
have no hesitation at all about
simply taking them back to their| {amber 2, 146 at the Post Ofice, Lex:
rooms where they can peruse them | 3, _1878
at their leisure—to hell with the
others who need them. If one were
to accost these violators with the
accusation of stealing, they would
swell with righteous indignation—af-
ter all, they were only “borrowing.”

Reserve Books Problem

 

’ National Advertising Representative:
The National Advertisers Service, Inc..
420 Madison Ave., New York, N.Y

Editor-in-Chief................ Nathan Simpson
Business Manager.............. Huntley Biggs

Editorial Board
Managing Wditor................ George Hont
Assistant Managing ditor.." ee 4
Roy Goodwin

 
  
 
 

 

 

 

PEANUTS

ARE YOU
INTERESTED IN

PEDIATRICS,
CHARLIE BROWN ?

 

 

LISTEN TO THIS.“SOME NEWBORN
INFANTS ARE HIGHLY INFECTIOUS
TO OTHERS AND BECAUSE THEY ARE
LITERALLY SURROUNDED BY CLOUDS
OF BACTERIA THEY ARE CALLED
“CLOUD ‘BABIES!’

   
 

 

 

 

 

 

Then there is the even more dis- xt. eer. ~~ iy ee
agreeable subject of the reserve Associate Edit “rom Rains
® . ’ ui IPE s00sesass
books. Here the violations seem to Photography Wiiiar Micrenes Waeenee
To Neg U. 8 Por OF Al rights reserved]
Gaon Ted ty Gated feces Doh
WELL, WHAT ARE You \ 9
LOOKING AT ME FOR? g

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

THE RING-TUM PHI

Page 3

 

Generals Face F&M In Homecoming Tomorrow

Ww Ww

Ww Ww

Ww

Stingy Defense Will Be Deciding Factor In W&L’s Bid For 3rd Sidi Win

Washington and Lee’s stubborn defense will step out of
the shadows into the spotlight tomorrow when the Generals
tackle Franklin and Marshall’s Diplomats in W&L’s home-
coming here at 2 p.m.

The Generals’ defense, headed by guards Tommy Good-
win and Bill Willes, linebacker Terry Fohs, end Windy Weed,
and tackle Bill Wheeler, completely stalled the Dickinson
ground attack last week.

But this stonewall defense, which has given up 171
yards in two games, has drawn the unenviable task of
trying to derail F&M’s ground express, 165-pound scat-
back John Tomasko.

After watching Tomasko gallop 82 yards from scrimmage
for a touchdown against Johns Hopkins last Saturday, W&L
assistant coach Boyd Williams said:

““He’s the kind of runner who’s likely to put six points on
the scoreboard any time he carries. He’s one of the best small
college runners I’ve ever seen.”

But Tomasko’s touchdown sprint didn’t help the Diplomats
get on the win trail as Johns Hopkins eked out a 12-6 victory
on the game’s last play. The Diplomats lost their opening game
to Denison, 34-14.

Tomasko is the main cog in the Diplomat’ s revamp-
ed backfield, which is p!auged by the a‘sence of an ex-
perienced quarterback.

But the same hefty line that held the Generals in check as
F&M chalked up a 28-14 victory last year is back this year
and will give the game a definite defensive flavor.

In fact, the experts have forecast that one touchdown will
win the game.

In sizing up Franklin and Marshall, W&L Head
Coach Lee McLaughlin said, “Thank goodness (John)

Betrone is gone.”

 

The Generals ready for tomorrow’s game

 

Delts Capture I-M Track

The Delts, Phi Delts, and KA’s captured the first three
places in the intramural track finals Wednesday.

Following them were SAE’s, fourth; DU, fifth; Phi Kappa
g ere
Sigma, sixth; ZBT’s seventh; Sigma*
Nu, eighth; Phi Gams, ninth; and| ppj Gam, in the 440; Nick Everhardt,
SPE’s, tenth. DU, in the 880, and the Betas in
: : : he mile relay.

Dave Britt, Phi Kappa Psi, raced | * y
to a first in both the 100 and 220- | Henry Sackett, SAE, leaped 20-0
yard dashes and took the high to capture first in the broad jump,
jump with a 5-6 leap. Ed Jansen Hobson Morrison, KA, grabbed first
Delt, and John Bloch, KA, captured in the pole vault, and Denins McKay,
pis first each, Jansen took the high Delta Tau Delta, won the javelin.

 

Betrone was the Generals’ undoing in their two previous
meetings with the Diplomats. In 1958 Betrone set up a
touchdown and a 14-13 win with a long punt return in the
game’s closing minutes. Last year the speedy halfback ignited
the Diplomats offensive fireworks when he returned a punt for
a touchdown in the first quarter.

Turning to his own attack, McLaughlin, who is somewhat
dissatisfied with his team’s showing so far, said:

“I feel we still have yet to play a good football game in
terms of our potential. We won our first two games because we
had greater depth, but just once I’d like for us to get a jump
on a team in the first half.”

The Generals, riding a two-game win streak, are
shooting for an unprecedented third straight win in one
season since W&L started its non-subsidized athletic pro-
gram in 1954,

 

 

W&L’s main attraction so far has been its powerful of-
fense which has gained 452 yards on the ground (an aver-
age of 4.7 per carry) in rolling over Centre, 21-6, and Dick-
inson, 23-6. Add to this 172 yards gained on a supposedly
weak passing attack, and the Generals have gained an average
of 315 yards per game.

McLaughlin was highly pleased with the effectiveness of
the Generals’ passing attack against Dickinson. Starting
quarterback Steve Suttle led the way with five completions in
seven attempts for 99 yards.

We’re not going to throw as often as we did last year
with Jack Groner, but I think we’re still going to be a
threat in the air,”” McLaughlin said.

Pacing the W&L running attack are halfback Bob Funk-
| houser and fullbacks Doug Martin and —_- Keesee.

~ypemeensconemannmnamnnnnpansae semen

id, Ne Bie Bee 3
mA‘ oon:

The 5-Star Blue Offense—left to right—Ned Hobbs, Bill Wheeler, Tommy Goodwin, Courtney Mauzy, Barton Dick, Malcolm Brownlee, and Windy
Weed. Standing—Jim Russ, Joe Hess, Steve Suttle, and Bob Funkhouser.

—Photo by Renshaw

 

Undefeated, Unscored Upon Bootmen
Tackle Duke Tuesday At Durham

The Washington and Lee Univer-
sity soccer team travels next week
to Durham, N.C., for a mid-South
clash wth the Blue Devils of Duke
University.

The Generals will take the road
with en undefeated and unscored
uoon record next Monday night, and
if pregame predictions hold true
will return with an unmarred 3-0
season.

However, there is but one ob-
stecle in the way of the Blue and
White Booters—and that is subsidiza-
tion. The Blue Devils have been
known to field nothing but impres-
sive looking teams, and Tuesday’s
contest will be no different from
any previous encourter as far as
Coach Joe Lyles or his team can
predict.

Two years ago, in Durham, W&L
bottled to a 3-3 tie during the regu-
lation game period with the Duke
beoters, and in a_ special “fifth
quarter” again matched Duke goal
for goal. ‘lhe outcome was a 4-4
deadlock, although the Generals
should have won had not an intra-
mural whistle confused them.

Last year, in Lexington, Duke was

 

TETLOW
TV Service

221 S. Main HO 3-2841

 

defeated by an agressive force of | team to score upon.

General booters by a 3-1 margin. Yesterday, in a scrimmage with the
This proved to be no easy matter,| VMI soccer club, the Generals again
however, and the Blue Devils will| posted a scrimmage victory, only
again be tough this year. this time VMI managed to score a

Coach Joe Lyles summed it up—
“The going will be mighty tough,
but I feel as if there are some fine
boys playing for me who want to
win and we all know that this is
the one we've got to take.”

 

 

 

and low hurdles while Bloch won —-
the discus with a heave of 106-7
and the shot put with a toss of Congratulations
39-10.

you're still alive
but,
how safe are your tires?

Jerry Smith, SAE, took first in
the mile with 5:25. Other firsts in
the track events went to Skip Essex,

sDodge and Dodge Darts

We are tire specialists

Let us inspect your tires

Phone HObart 3-3146 Route 60 East

 

Heteobeteoteeotesobeteoteteogecbeteteegeteteoteeteaet

Baker
Ford Sales

BETTER DEALS

CLEARANCE
of lot for 1961 Models

NEW AND
USED CARS

Highway 60 East

 

 

 

 

: and Lancer : regularly

: America’s First Fine : fs neral Tires

: a CAR . Kraft System Recapping
° Rockbridge Motor Co. ° SPENCER GENERAL
° INC. : TIRE CO.

 

See oe oete teste otete ste otongecfeteatesfocfecbeoeafesfecgeobeecfesfecgeotecedendesfeodeseh

Hee ooo cheobente atone eee ese ote ofeoteoteateate eee ee cfeotentecteotestecteatee

footnotes oetenteoteoteobeoteotetertenteotesteteoteotet

 

Our 5-Star Booters are entering | $0@l. It marked the first this season
in either a scrimmage or a game that
W&L “virgin” nets had been vio-
lated. This fluke goal, however, has
no one scared, and least of all Goalie
Clark Valentiner, who has strength-

Tuesday’s contest with an impres-
sive 2-0 record after posting a 4-0
victory over hapless Pfeiffer Col-
lege and a 3-0 tally over neighbor-
ing Randolph-Macon last Monday
in Ashland, Va. Neither of these
encounters has served to test the
General strength or endurance, yet
all factors point toward a rather dif-
ferent situation at Durham next
Tuesday.

Although there has been no scout-
ing report of Duke, it was well
known last year that their team
was dominated by sophomores and
juniors, and if all those boys are out
this year—Duke will be one tough

Looe EEeedTTeneenottd Leo d ETRE n EMME EHS The

% CALL BY NUMBER *\ REH dB : COLLEGE TOWN

4 and Save Time z : + in Shee OS eo. ‘3 Shop
* 3|$ JEWELERS z

z LEXINGTON : z Lexington, Virginia $ Student Charge Accounts

= TELEPHONE CO. e HO 3-2833 * Welcomed

* | ae *

Pea eEeabeenbbbe SeEedbboeeedbbbeeddboes

 

 

 

TOLLEY’S PHARMACY

Prescriptions Filled

 

 

 

 

 

ened the General defenses tremen- Immediately
dously this season. PURCHASE DRUGS
In looking the situation over, HO 3-2211
Wayland’s Drug Store
Prescriptions, Russell Stover Traditional
Candies W&L BLAZER
Next to Rockbridge Bank With University Crest
and Buttons

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

=
e
os
e
e
e
e
es
e
=
=
=
e
es
e
e
=
e
e
*
*
=
e
=
e
«
=
e
e
e
e
=
=
e
=
e
e
e

 

J
=
=
* |
|

Batik Prints
in deep, rich colorings...

Batik Prints by Arrow capture the
look of the hand-worked prints of
Java. These deep muted tones pro-
vide your wardrobe with a new
expression of color. Available also
in a Lady Arrow shirt; both styled
in the authentic button-down col-
lar. Precisely tailored in exact
sleeve lengths.

Pullover for the man $0.00
Button-front for the woman $0.00

cum laude collection

by

=“ARROW=

e
=
e
e
e
e
*
=
e
se
=
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
*
e
e
=
*
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
=
e
e
*
Page 4

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

Dr. Leyburn Speaks On ‘Idols’

By ROBERT SUPER |
Staff Reporter

Dr. James Leyburn spoke to the
UCA held Wednesday in the fresh-
man dorm. His topic was the “Idols!
of the Campus”: conservatism, popu- |
larity, conformity, apathy, and self-
centeredness. He warned freshmen
that “If you aren't aware of them
[the idols] yet, you soon will be.”

Dr. Leyburn stressed the import-
ance of individuality and self-assess- |
ment, especially in the freshman |
year. He noted that a certain amount |
of conformity is required by W&L|
traditions, but that conformity of |
thought stamps out individualism, |
and that conservatism means “not |
to have the mind stretched by sub-|
jects never taken before.”

“Grade-chasing”

Dr. Leyburn expressed his view
that the rather limited choice of |
courses available to freshmen, many |
of which aren’t so very different |
from high school subjects, can help!
lead to conformity by precluding
much “stretching” of the mind by
new ideas. Also pointed out was the
danger of “grade-chasing,” or learn-

 

Notices

There will be a meeting of all
reporters of the Friday Edition
of the Ring-tum Phi in the Student
Union on Tuesday, Oct. 11 at 7 p.m.

The Forensic Union will meet
Monday at 7:15 in the Student Union.

 

Homecomings Include

Girls, Show from Minks

(Continued from page 1)

didate who was Queen of Home-
comings, 1959.

Beanies, Yes or No?

The Mongolian Minks are expected
to put in their traditional half-time
appearance at the game. And fresh-
men will anxiously be awaiting the
news from Don Partington of the
Assimilation Committee that they
may remove their beanies—if the
news is to come. Partington and the
committee have remained silent on
the beanies, and some have expressed
doubt that the event will come.

After the game, there will be an
alumni reception on the mezzanine
of the Robert E. Lee Hotel.

Several fraternities have also plan-
ned a cocktail party for their alumni
later in the day.

Also scheduled for Saturday after-
noon is a Sophomore Class Party.

 

 

wer Sa Mee ils)

STATE

LEXINGTON, VA.

 

 

FRL-SAT.

 

THE
CROWDED
' starring |
SKY iio 207

EFREM JOHN ANNE
ZIMBALISTin.* KERR* FRANCIS Ml
KEENAN TROY Presented by
WYNNeDONAHUE “fecrnicocoss

TECHNICOLOR?®,

 

SUN.-MON.-TUES.

[ STEVE ALLEN - JAYNE MEADOWS l
WALTER WINCHELL* MAMIE VAN DOREN

REE one oe 8 AO ORS
anALBERT ZUGSMITH production
A Universal-International Release

ing and then “giving back” without
understanding.

Dr. Leyburn emphasized  self-

centeredness as the most dangerous |

idol of all. He predicts that many
freshmen will soon be confronted
with a number of problems, many of
them new to his experience; prob-
lems and worries concerning his fra-
ternity, his parents, his girl, and
his work. It is all too easy to spend
a great deal of time thinking of
one’s self, and to consider one’s
own problems of tremendous im-
portance. This, he warned can easily
lead to self-centeredness.

 

Cornell Professor Speaks
(Continued from page 1)

College. He is author of The Monroe

| Doctrine, Hands Off, The New Age

of Franklin Roosevelt, and many
other outstanding works..

He is the first professor to receive
the title of professor emeritus from
Cornell University. This honor was
bestowed on him upon his retire-
ment last February. Since 1950 he
has been president of the Salzburg
Seminar in American Studies, and
has lectured at National War Col-
lege, Canada, University of London
and Upsala University in Sweden.
The department of history at W&L
is sponsoring Dr. Perkins’ lecture
and cordially invites the student
body to attend.

 

 

Lexington
Laundro Matic

209 S. Main

*

HAND IRONED
SHIRTS

Dry Cleaning

Service

for your convenience

 

‘Openings Party
Features Tribble

(Continued from page 1)

main events occur. Opposite this will
be another mural depicting various
scenes of the exciting side attrac-
| tions. The bandstand will be centered
in one of these murals from which
Ray Eberle will play. There will be
a faculty box as usual.

President Hardwick said, “The idea
of the new decorations is to work
an overall effect into the dance, in-
stead of having just one theme.”

In charge of the art decorations
are Vice-Presidents John White and
Peter Agelesto. Vice-President Bud-
dy Jones is in charge of the con-
struction.

Preceding the Dance Friday after-
noon will be the Cocktail Party given
by the Beta House in honor of
President Hardwick. The party will
be held
in the Pine Room at 4:30 p.m. Play-
ing for the occasion is TNT Tribble,
“The Walking Drummer,” from
Washington, D.C. Tribble has play-
ed in the “Hayloft” in Washington
and played for Red Square at Finals
last year. Scotch and Bourbon will
be served as refreshments.

 

TEXACO
Super Service Station
Lexington, Virginia
Corner Main and Nelson
Coeccccccsesescoeeceeecs

at the Mayflower Hotel} -

 

Openings Edition of Collegian To Feature Sweet Briar

By ED BOKEE

The fall issue of The Southern
Collegian will be distributed on Oct.
28, the Friday of the Opening Dance
set. Hugo Hoogenboom, senior Law
student and a Delta Upsilon, is the
Editor and Ken Beall, a Delta Tau
Delta senior, is the Managing Edi-
tor. The art work will be handled
by Al Wyly, Delta Upsilon sopho-

 

CORRECTION

In Tuesday’s Edition of the
Ring-tum Phi the incorrect date
was given for the Freshman Exe-
cutive Committee elections. The
notice should have read: Elec-

more and Ted Hardin, Pi Kappa
Phi senior. The fall isue of the Col-
legian will feature Sweet Briar in its
Picture Gallery.

The Collegian, the campus feature
magazine, is published four times a
year, corresponding to the four dance

Notice
There will be a meeting of the

Student War Memorial Scholarship
Committee (SWMSFC) to inter-
view
Tuesday Oct. 11, in the Student
Union. It is desired that sopho-
mores from all fraternities are in-

interested sophomores on

 

 

sets, Openings, Fancy Dress,| terviewed.

Springs, and Finals. Its articles are

written by students, and any one

may submit an article for considera- It’s Good usiness
tion. Although the magazine pub- To Do usiness
lishes mainly humorous articles, ser- with IERER’S
ious works of fiction will be accepted.

All articles should be submitted to

either Hugo Hoogenboom at DU, or P HARMACY
Ken Beall at DTD.

 

 

 

 

 

 

tions for the executive committee-
men of the freshman academic
and law classes will be held Mon-
day, Oct. 17, at 7 p.m. The fresh-
man academic election will be
held in Lee Chapel. The law elec-
tion will be in Tucker Hall.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

I

HICKMAN’S ESSO

South Main Street
HO 3-2024

[ho oo oe ee ad

ee
SSOOHHOHSSSSSSEOSESSOOSEE

Rielle atnin

 

 

 

LEXINGTON
HARDWARE
COMPANY

Phone HO 3-2242

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

er | Ree eee e rede eee
|  Waggy’s Jewelers | ROBERT E. LEE
35 S. Main Street 1/5 BARBERSHOP
Phone HO 3-4121 1\% David M. Moore
} THE HOME OF QUALITY 11¢ Proprietor
41%
Soleofededefetetetetetetoteteteteteteteteses

 

DIXO

ESSO SERVICE CENTER
ROUTE 60 EAST IN LEXINGTON

Across from the White Top Resturant
HO 3-4214

Wash, Grease, Lube, Road Service

Charge Accounts Welcome

N’S

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

: FOR ROOM RESERVATIONS—CALL HO 3-2151 . ip ~\
o
e LEXINGTON MOTEL °
: Large Rooms—U. S. 11 By-Pass South :
: Free TV—Phones—Continental Breakfast : THE COLLEGE INN
: Only Motel in corporate limits of Lexington : The Best Food in Town
COCHOOHOSSSOHSSOHESOO HOO OSSOOSSOOOSOOEEOOECOOOOEO®E
American and Italian
FOREIGN CARS AND STUDEBAKER LARKS Coming to the Seadunte, Pectin,
OUR SPECIALTY and Towns People
Expert Motor Work Open 8:00 a.m.—8:00 p.m.
MAIN STREET MOBIL STATION A OPEN SUNDAYS
4)

 

 

 

 

BROWN’S
CLEANING
WORKS
We call for

and deliver
HO 3-2013 14 Randolph St.

 

 

 

 

 

Short Orders—Lunches
Catering to Students

Me te fe fe fe afe oho ae ate

 

Hamric and Sheridan
JEWELERS
Watch and Jewelry Repair
Hand Engraving and Class Rings
HO 3-2022

LeeMeMAEEEeeeeEo EEE sadtd

NEW TOWN INN :

he

o

%
%
%
te
%
%

+
Heobebetetetetetetedeetededetoteteteteteteototetes

 

 

 

 

 

THE DUTCH INN

For Reservation Call
MRS. KATHERINE ADAMS
HO 3-3433

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

PARAMOUNT

 

fH

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

a

San Francisco.

 

Ny

 

 

 

 

oa

  

   
 
 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

vr ee 8

 

LARGE ols 0
BY | Tues. Nic WT

 

 

 

 

 

    

or scared.”

 

 

 

 

 

Wes Roberts can tell you:

“THERE’S NO CEILING FOR A SELF-STARTER
IN THE TELEPHONE BUSINESS”

When Wes Roberts was nearing the end of
his senior year at San Jose State College, he was
looking for a job with a wide open future. He
found it when he joined Pacific Telephone in

Here’s how Wes tells it: ‘I remember one of
my first jobs. The boss said, ‘Wes, I want you
to work out a plan showing where we'll need
new field operating centers to keep up with
Northern California’s growth over the next 10
years.’ I didn’t know whether I was more happy

Wes didn’t tell us (but his boss did) that he
handled the report like a pro. And today, as a

FREDERICK R. KAPPEL, President

American Telephone & Telegraph Co,

 

division supervisor, he’s holding down a key

telephone job.

Wes Roberts’ story is not unique in the Bell
Telephone Companies. The telephone business
is growing fast—and men are needed who can

grow just as fast.

Wes can tell you: “We get

good training.

But no one nurses you along. We hire managers
—not errand boys. So far as I can see, there’s no
ceiling for a self-starter in this business.”

If you're a guy like Wes Roberts—if you like
to bite off more than you can chew and then chew
it— you'll want to visit your Placement Office for
literature and additional information.

“Our number one aim is to have in all
management jobs the most vital, intelli-
gent, positive and imaginative men we
can possibly find.”

 

BELL TELEPHONE COMPANIES

 
 

TUESDAY
Edition

Che King-tum Phi

Washington and Lee Semi-Weekly Newspaper

TUESDAY
Edition

 

Volume LXI

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA, OCTOBER 11, 1960

Number 8

 

University Party Names Ed Croft For Frosh EC

Ww

Danzansky Again To Direct S

KA Pledge To

Election To Be Held October 17

Ed Croft, a KA pledge from Atlanta, Ga., was nomi-
nated last night by the University Party for the post of Execu-
tive Committeeman representative from the freshman class.

The University Party candidate was named by freshman
political representatives from the ten member houses of the

“big clique” at a meeting held at the*
Phi Delt house.

Eight men were submitted for
nomination, but Croft’s candidacy
was endorsed by the two repre-
sentative of the party houses at
the meeting conducted by the
elected freshman chairman, Buck
Ogilvie.

A graduate of Westminster School
in Atlanta, Ed served as president
of the Honor Council there. Dur-
ing his junior year, he served as
vice-president of his class.

In athletics, Ed poses an out-
standing record, having earned sev-
en letters. He served as co-captain
of the football and track teams. For
his sports activities, he received
four “most valuable player” awards
and state championship honors.

Some of his other activities, in-
clude participation in the Spanish
Club, the Key Club, and the Stu-
dent Council.

At W&L Croft has begun by serv-
ing as a member of the Ring-tum
Phi staff, president of his KA pledge
class and a member of the freshman
football team.

Croft's opponent is Bill Noell,
standard-bearer for the Indepen-
dent Party. Both Croft and Noell
will be formally nominated next
Monday night, Oct. 17, in Lee Chapel.
After the nomination, freshmen will
choose their representative by sec-
ret ballot.

University Party chairman, John
Farmer, said that the freshmen
showed excellent and mature judg-
ment in their choice of Croft. He
stated further that he believed that
Croft was the best man for the job
and that he hoped that the fresh-
men would weigh the qualifications
of the two candidates very careful-
ly.

Croft said that he was highly hon-
ored to have been chosen to repre-
sent the University Party and that
if he is elected, he will do all that
is within his power to uphold the
integrity of the honor system and
the Executive Committee of Wash-
ington and Lee.

 

Biggs, Fischel
At Trade Meet

Harold Fischel, PEP, and Huntley
Biggs, SAE, have been presented an
expense-paid trip to the 12th An-
nual Virginia World Trade Con-
ference. The two-day meeting will
be held in Roanoke this Thursday
and Friday, Oct. 13 and 14. Fischel
and Biggs, who were chosen as rep-
resentatives of W&L’s international
economics class, will be accompan-
ied by John McKenzie Gunn, Jr.,
assistant professor of economics and
political science.

The conference, sponsored by the
Virginia State Chamber of Com-
merce, annually invites two W&L
students and a professor to partici-
pate in the activities. A part of the
conference will be a student forum
on Friday afternoon at which rep-
resentatives from most Virginia
colleges and a few selected ones
from surrounding states will ask
questions of a panel of experts.

Guest speakers for the World Trade
Conference include Arthur H. Mot-
ley, President of the U. S. Chamber of
Commerce; C. S. Waugh, President
of the Export-Import Bank of Wash-
ington; and B. K. Nehru, Ambassador
from India.

Also on the program is a W&L
alumnus Verbon E. Kemp, presently
the Executive Secretary of the Vir-
ginia State Chamber of Commerce;

(Continued on page 4)

 

Ww

Oppose N oell;

 

Alumnus Levy

Asks Questons —
On TV Debate

In the second debate between the

 

two presidential candidates, on last |
Friday evening, one of the four
newsmen putting questions to the |
candidates was a former editor of
the Ring-tum Phi, Harold R. “Bud” |
Levy, who graduated from Wash-|
ington and Lee in 1942. |

Mr. Levy, now associated with |
the Long Island newspaper, News-
day, represented the press in a pan-
el of four questioners, two of whom
were from radio networks and two
from newspapers.

Mr. Levy attended Washington
and Lee from 1938 to 1942. He
graduated with a Bachelor of Arts
degree and a major in History.
While at W&L, in addition to serv-
ing as editor of the Ring-tum Phi,
Mr. Levy was president of his
social fraternity, Phi Kappa Psi,
president of the student publica-
tions board, a member of Omi-
cron Delta Kappa, was on _ the
assimilation committee, a member
of Sigma Delta Chi, and of the
Cotillion Club, and is listed in
“Who’s Who in American Col-
leges and Universities.” He was
also on the Dean’s List.

After graduation in 1942, Mr. Levy
enlisted in the Infantry as a pri-
vate. He went to Officers School at
Ft. Benning and served for three
years in North Africa and Italy. He
was discharged in 1946 with the
rank of captain.

Mr. Levy, a native from New Jer-
sey, moved to North Carolina and
served on the staff of the Winston-
Salem Journal and Sentinel, first in
the position of telegraph editor and
later as Sunday Feature editor.

In 1953 Mr. Levy moved to Long
Island where he became Sunday
feature editor of Newsday. In 1955,
he became, in his present capacity,
head of Newsday’s Washington Bu-
reau, at the National Press Build-
ing.

 

A Tuesday staff meeting will be
held in the Student Union on Fri-
day, at 2 p.m.

 

Ww

 

Ww

Dr. Shillington congratulates winner.
—Staff Photo by Young

Miss Moore Is Weekend Queen;
Rain Hurts Alumni Attendance

Miss Betsy Moore, representing
Kappa Sig, was crowned Homecom-
ing Queen in the climax of home-
coming festivities. Miss Moore, a
junior at Hollins, is five feet five
inches tall, has light blond hair and
blue eyes. She is a music major at
Hollins and a resident of Wilming-
ton, Del. Her escort was Skip Ruhle,
president of Kappa Sig.

Homecoming weekend began with
a pep rally Friday night in Doremus
Gym. Steve Danzansky, cheerleader
captain, introduced the homecoming
queen candidates and the new cheer-
leaders to an appreciative audience
of upperclassmen and pajama-clad
freshmen.

Coach Mac gave a short speech
which was warmly received by the
students. Courtney Mauzy introduced
the 1960 varsity football team. The
pep rally was followed by the tra-
ditional parade through the streets
of Lexington.

Phi Gam won first place in the
homecoming decorations contest
with their “Laundromat the Dip-
lopmat” display. It consisted of a
W&L General running a Diplomat
through the ringers of a giant
washing machine. Second place
went to SPE who centered their
display around Poor Richard's
Almanac. Delt, first place winners

 

Religious Emphasis Week To Feature

the last two years, took third with
| their “Dump on the Diplomats.”

Phi Gam also won the spirit trophy
for the second year in a row. The
|award is given to the fraternity
| which shows the most spirit during
| the homecoming game.

|

Halftime entertainment was pro-
vided by the Franklin and Marshall
and the Halifax County High School
marching bands.

Three hundred and fifty grad-
uates from as far away as Cleve-
land, St. Louis, and New Orleans
signed the Alumni register. Satur-
day morning’s heavy downpour, it
is believed, kept away many alumni
from near-by areas.

Before the game, a luncheon was
held in the Evans Dining Hall for
all alumni and their wives. The
luncheon was preceded by a coffee
held in the foyer of the dining hall.
| The highlight of the day, of course,
was the smashing 38-8 victory over
Franklin and Marshall College. Af-
ter the game, an alumni reception
was held on the mezzanine of the
Robert E. Lee Hotel.

Alumni Secretary Bill Wash-

a whole, stated that the spirit at
the game and the Friday night Pep

(Continued on page 4)

 

Congregationalist Dr. Nels F. S. Ferre

Dr. Nels F. S. Ferre of Andover
Newton Theological School will be
the main speaker for this years’
Religious Emphasis Week, Nov. 9-11.

Dr. Ferre, a Congergationalist,
will speak on the theme “Biblical
Faith and Modern Thought.” His
supporting speakers in the conference
will be Dr. David Wice, rabbi of
Congregational Rodeth Shalom in
Philadelphia, and Father Francis R.
McCarthy, pastor of St. Patrick’s
Catholic Church here in Lexington.

George Birdsong, chairman of
the University Religious Confer-
ence, says that the conference |
should create more interest and
participation than ever before, be- |
cause of three important reasons. |

The first of these changes is that
the speakers represent the Roman |
Catholic and Jewish faiths as well
as the Protestant, offering students
a new variety in points of view.

Also for the first time, informal
discussions with main speakers will |
be fitted into the week’s schedule. |
Dr. Ferre will deliver his lectures |

 

sions of them in afternoon sessions,
where students will have the chance
to ask him questions.

In addition, a series of prepara-
tory discussions will be given on
the three
nights before the conference be-
gins. These discussions are design-
ed to familiarize students with the
subject matter of the conference
and help them have a more alert
attitude toward the lectures.

The first of these discussions, deal-

| ing with Dr. Ferre’s first scheduled |

| lecture, “Contemporary Theology,” |
| will be held on Oct. 18, in the Stu-|
dent Union. The Rev. John

Memorial Episcopal Church, will! Dy, Wice will speak that night on |

conduct the discussion.

consecutive Tuesday |

| Fletcher, pastor of the R. E. Lee| attend Dr. Ferre’s second lecture.

| Chaplain, will take charge of the
| third discussion on Nov. 1. It will
| deal with “World Religion,” the
| topic of Dr. Ferre’s third and final
| lecture of the conference.

Dr. Ferre will open the confer-
ence Wednesday morning, Nov, 9,
at 12:05, with his lecture on “Con-
temporary Theology.” The lecture
will be given in the Doremus Me-
morial Gymnasium. That evening,
Father McCarthy wiil Speak on

| “Religion and East-West Conflict, |

and Dr. Wice on “Religion, Sex,
| and Marriage.”

Clesses will be shortened Thursday
morning so that all students can

| “Science and Religion,” while Fath-

burn, speaking for the alumni as |

Ww

‘
|
|

Ww

WMSFC Musical

ZBT Senior Writes New Songs
For ’61 Musical Ths Summer

The Student War Memorial Scholarship Fund Commit-

‘tee has chosen Steve Danzansky to write and direct their 1961

‘spring musical. By accepting
musical, Danzansky returns to

 

| History Lecture

Offered Tonight

Professor Dexter Perkins, a re-
tired member of the Cornell Uni-
versity faculty, will speak in duPont
Auditorium this evening. Dr. Per-
kins will speak of “The American
Attitude toward War and Peace.”

Professor Perkins is renowned for

politics.
president of the Salzburg Seminar
in American Studies. Upon his re-

ed the title of University professor
emeritus, the first Cornell professor
ever to receive such a recognition.
In 1955 he gave the Fund for Adult
Education Lectures, and he has also
lectured at the University of Lon-
don.

Dr. Perkins’ lecture will begin at
8 p.m.

Sophs To Apply
For SW MSFC

The Student War Memorial Schol-
arship Fund Committee will hold
interviews for perspective members
at 7 p.m. in the Student Union. Dave
Lefkowitz, chairman of the com-
mittee, has urged that sophomores,
regardless of fraternal or political
affiliation, should apply. Six new
members will be chosen.

The SWMSFC is an organized
committee which directs its efforts
towards raising funds for scholar-
ships for the sons of World War II
and the Korean War veterans. The
committee has raised funds to
provide a scholarship for at least
one boy. In the future it hopes
to provide many more scholar-
ships.

In the past the committee has
handled the senior ring sale, spring
musical, and the rental of caps and
gowns for graduation. It has also
been responsible for bringing the
Corn Bowl to W&L sports fans.

This years’ committee is now
seeking additional means to raise
money. The sophomore applicants
will be judged on their past records
and the impressions they leave with
the committee.

 

Notices

Don Partington, chairman of the
Assimilation Committee has an-
nounced that tennis shoes are not
conventional dress and that socks
are. The Assimilation Committee
will meet tonight at 7 o’clock in the
Student Union.

 

Anyone interested in being a
manager for the varsity basketball
team please report to the confer-
ence room in Doremus Gymnasium
tonight at 7 p.m. There will be a
short orientation meeting.

 

There will be an important meet-
ing for all those interested in var-
| sity basketball on Thursday eve-
| ning at 7 p.m., in the conference
; room in Doremus Gymnasium,
| Practice gear is to be handed out

on Friday, and practice starts
Monday, Oct, 17.

On October 25, Dr. Paul Hayner,| er McCarthy will have as his topic |

Associate Professor of Philosophy,

| will conduct a discussion on the sub- |
|:

ject of Dr. Ferre’s second lecture,
“Existentialism.”

Dr.

|

“Religion and Racial Exclusiveness.” |

| The conference will terminate on
| Friday, Nov. 11, with a
Dr. Ferre,

| lecture by followed in

David W. Sprunt, Associate! the afternoon by an informal discus- |

in the morning and permit discus-| Dean of Students and University; sion period.

morning |

There will be a meeting of the
Lexington Grotto of the National
Speleological Society on Friday
night at 8 o’clock in the basement
of the Student Union, Interested
freshman are invited to attend.

his many lectures on history and)
Since 1950 he has been!

tirement from Cornell he was award- !

the leadership of SWMSFC’s

the positions he held in writing

and directing last year’s musical show, “The Cannon’s Mouth.”

* Danzansky, a ZBT senior, is W&L’s
head cheerleader, a member of the
Concert Guild Board, and a Dean’s
List student. He has been active in
the Troubadour Theater and in Radio
Washington and Lee, in addition to
his services as a Ring-tum Phi
| columnist. His experience in dra-
matics includes work in summer
stock theaters and in many student
| productions, highlighted by “The
; Cannon’s Mouth” in 1960.
| Last summer Danzansky attended
Catholic University in Washington,
| where he took music composition
end theory courses in preparation
for writing the score of this year’s
show. The result of his summer’s
study is fifteen songs written ex-
pressly for the 1961 production. Com-
menting on the score of this year’s
musical, Danzansky said, “While ‘The
Cannon’s Mouth’ had only six or
seven melodies that could really be
called melodies, the 1961 show will
have fourteen or fifteen, about the
number in most Broadway musicals.”
Although the title of the musical
has not been released, Danzansky did
reveal the general nature and the
theme of the show. The plot will
be based on an old Greek comedy
by Aristophenes. Danzansky men-
tioned, “I’ve tried to adapt the old
Greek style of comedy to the modern
concept of humor without losing
too much of the play’s original flav-
or.” He added that the date for se-
lecting the cast and production crew
will be announced in the near fu-
ture.

Last year’s production of “The
Cannon’s Mouth” involved over 100
people in the cast, crew, and pro-
duction staff, making it the larg-
est single activity on the W&L
campus. An audience of over 1,000
contributed to SWMSFC by at-
tending the three-day run of the
show. A $200 donation was re-
ceived from an anonymous sup-
porter after seeing “The Cannon’s
Mouth.”

Danzansky gained national recog-
nition when Richard Coe, columnist
for the Washington Post, mentioned
his work in writing and directing
the musical.

Danzansky hopes to be able to use
girls again from the surrounding
women’s colleges in the cast of the
musical. A faculty member from
Sweet Briar mentioned that the
school was very pleased with the
production.

 

IFC Names Tom Edwards
Outstanding Freshman

Last night Dave Lefkowitz, pres-
ident of the IFC, announced that
Tommy Edwards of Phi Kappa Sig-
ma had been elected the “Outstand-
ing Freshman of the year 1959-1960.”

This honor was conferred upon
Edwards by a vote of the IFC com-
mittee because of his superior ac-
complishments in the previous year.

He became a member of Phi Eta
Sigma as a result of his 2.64 grade
ratio. He also played freshman foot-
ball and lettered in varsity track.

In the field of social activities, he
is a member of both the Glee Club
and the Dence Board. Last year he
was also a representative to the IFC,
and he is now president of the
Sophomore Class.

The runner-up in the IFC voting
was Meade Christian of Phi Gamma
Delta. This voting was extremely
close. Both Christian and Edwards
were outstanding in their achieve-
ments of scholastic and social nature.

Dave Lefkowitz said, “the com-
mittee had a hard choice to make.
However, Tommy was the most out-
standing freshman picked by the
IFC committee during the last sev-
eral years.”

 
 

 

Page 2

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

Che Ring-tum Phi

 

Purpose?

In last Friday’s Ring-tum Phi there appeared an editorial en-
titled, “Is There Justification for ‘Honorary’ Abuse?” The log-
ical answer to this question is emphatically no! There is never
justification for misuse, mistreatment or abuse.

We frankly miss the point of the editorial. If it was to
inform the University community that “secret and nameless”
societies are or have been engaged in activities which violate
certain university ordinances, we feel that the charges might
have been a bit more specific. After all, if a society is secret
and/or nameless, it would seem that one would have to be a
member of that society to be completely familiar with its poli-

cies and its purposes.

This idea of purpose was also mentioned in the article in
question. We have never heard of, or seen, (nor are we able
to draw from the standing members) a statement of purpose
for the “nameless” and secret societies on campus.

We feel that the most important and most justifiable pur-

pose of all of these societies is
members. Their methods may
the same.

to furnish recreation for their
be different. Their purpose is

In saying this, we do not mean to condone any action that
violates a rule or policy of the University. We hope that those
“nameless” and secret societies who are engaged in such illicit
practices will use better judgment in the future. We feel that
most of the physical abuse has disappeared. (Where are the
PAN and White Friar paddles this year?)

We simply wish to defend the rights of these honorary so-
cieties to exist with no more definite purpose than to furnish

recreation for their members.

If this is not a valid purpose, we fear that our fraternities
would soon become eating clubs and the University would have
the problem of providing forms of social recreation for its stu-
dent body. We do not feel that the “academic and social ideal-
ism” of our university has been shattered by the appearance of

these societies.

With the exception of a few white hats and arm bands,
there has been little evidence of these societies on campus. The
academic pursuits of the members of these societies have cer-

tainly not been disrupted any more than those of the freshmen

fraternity pledges. We fail to see the social ideals that have been

shattered.

Congratulations!

Steve Danzansky and his staff of cheerleaders are to be con-
gratulated for their excellent show of effort and enthusiasm
during last week’s homecoming festivities. The cheer rally was
a success. There could and should have been more participation
on the part of the upper classes. We feel that Danzansky did
a wonderful job in getting the crowd out and in publicizing the

rally.

The cheerleaders did their best at the game. However, if it
had not been for the Fiji freshmen and a few old grads the
Washington and Lee contingent in the stands would have been
drowned out by the valiant little group in the F&M seats. Let’s
help the team and the cheerleaders out; let’s learn the cheers
and scream a little. It should not be below the dignity of even
a W&L gentleman to cheer for a winning team.

Do you suppose there would be any support for pep rallys
before all of our home games? We have heard a number of
the players say that it really “fired them up” to know that
so many people were interested.

We don’t pay them, but let’s support them!

 

This Is The Time For Greatness!
Congo Result Of Mismanagement

By HENRY HARRELL

Out of the depths of the Belgian
Congo, a noise, a stirring. Through
the shadows, dark figures glide sil-
ently with an occasion flash of metal
or gleam of pigment to reveal that
these are men and not animals. Sud-
denly two of these chocolate phan-
toms meet, stop, and recoil from
one another: “Are you a Lumumba
man?”

The brutal chatter of machine
gun fire shocks the jungle into
silence. One man falls dead—the
Mobutu man walks around him,
nervously glancing at the silent
jungle walls.

Meanwhile, back at the city—Pat-
rice Lumumba hysterically orders
immediate execution of all Mobutu
men, half of Kasavubu’s forces, and
total extermination in Katanga pro-
vince. The guards picking their teeth
at the doors look at him and laugh.
He rolls on the floor, kicking and
screaming, while the picture of
Khrushchev on the wall stares at
him accusingly.

In the stronghold on the hill,
President Kasavubu jumps and
turns as pale as he can when the
door behind him opens. But before
he squeals out anything in his
terror, he recognizes one of his
own men, In impeccable French,
his underling says:

“They want to know what you are

going to do about this mess, I mean.”
“Tell them I'll issue a statement

 

tomorrow or sometime. Tell them
anything.”

Young, bespeckled  strong-man
Mobutu relaxes at his ease in his
flat, only blocks from Lumumba’s
stronghold. He looks calm and in
control, and when a stone smashes
through his window, striking one of
his children (the child is not in-
jured, as it was hit on the head),
he barks out commands to the uni-
formed men surrounding him. They
run out to get the offender, but
soon come back empty-handed.

“He went past the end of the
block. Yessir, he did, and you told
us we don’t control past the end of
the block.”

Mobutu, a calmer man than Lu-
mumba, contents himself with chew-
ing up his cigar and eating it in im-
potent rage.

This is the Congo’s “time for
greatness,” a time for all her men
to aid their country. The Belgian
Congo wanted freedom, and fast.
They got it. And now the great
and glorious young messiahs of the
Congo, Kasavubu, Lumumba, and
Mobutu, must decide the destiny of
this new addition to the proud na-
tions of the world.

The Congo has presumably taken
her rightful place. Perhaps she will
come up with a plan for world dis-
armament—Kwame Nkrumah has
one. If we are really fortunate, one
day this new and sovereign nation,

 

Raven Rants

Lyric to Continue Line of Good Shows

By GERRY OUELLETTE

We believe that contrast best serv-
es the cause of impartiality. There
has been, much without surprise to
us, a great deal of foul publicity for
the town of Lexington in the pages
of our newspaper. We must insist
that all facets be viewed before we
pronounce final judgment.

With the idea of equal praise for
bitter criticism, we have invited a
fellow student, Bond Johnson, to
evaluate the cinema situation in
Lexington. Mr. Johnson’s remarks,
we feel, bring out the best of what
has been shown and that which will
be shown at our very own Lyric
Theater.

a * *

No one can leave the Lyric
theater without noticing Mr. Side
standing by the door or at the pop-
corn counter talking with the stu-
dents. If the crowd is small, you
won't leave without being asked
by him what you thought of the
movie. Perhaps if you have talked
to Mr. Side before, he will ask
your advice on which films he
should bring. If you suggest one of
your old favorites to him and
enough people seem interested in
it, the chances are he will play it
before the end of the year.

As a result of his selection of
films, Mr. Side has given Lexington
a better art theater than most larger
cities have. The short runs he is
able to arrange allow a variety that
a bigger city may not have.

Last year he gave us “Wild Straw-
berries,” “The Seventh Seal,” and
“The Magician” within a period of
time that one Bergman film would
play in a large city.

Mr. Side’s program last year would
have been a credit to any art theat-
er. We saw four Bergman films, the

 

three above and “Smiles of a Sum-
mer Night.” In the way of old clas-
sics we had “The Private Life of
Henry VIII” and “Grand Illusion;”
not to mention Eisenstein’s monu-
mental “Potemkin,” perhaps the
most outstanding landmark in the
history of filming technique.

From England Mr. Side brought
“Room at the Top,” “Sapphire,” and
“Richard III.” From the old Holly-
wood repertory he got “Casablanca,”
“Gilda,” “Arsenic and Old Lace,” and
the Garland triumph, “A Star Is
Born.”

In the near future Mr. Side
will bring “Pather Panchali” and
“The Crucible.” “Pather Panchali”
is the first film in the new Indian
trilogy, “Aparagito.”

“Aparagito,” as a whole, has been
well received in New York, and the
first film, “Pather Panchali,” has
been the most highly praised of the
three. “The Crucible” portrays Jean
Paul Sartre’s French adaptation of
Arthur Miller’s play concerning
witchcraft in the Salem of 1692. Si-
mone Signoret of “Room at the Top”
plays opposite her husband, Yves
Montand.

Another certain engagement is
“Jazz on a Summer Day,” a study
in sounds and photography revolv-
ing around the 1959 Newport Jazz
Festival.

The Lyric’s list of tentative
bookings include some of the most
successful films in New York, as
well as some of the older Holly-
wood classics. From the former
we find “The 400 Blows,” a French
film that reveals the short career
of a twelve-year-old boy consid-
ered a delinquent who was looking
for nothing more than affection.

“Hiroshima, Mon Amour,” is an-
other French release of great in-
tegrity that explores the love of a
Frenchwoman for a Japanese. In-
herent in the theme of the doomed
affair is a poignant apology for
peace.

Having given us previously “The
Mouse That Roared” and “The Bat-
tle of the Sexes,” Mr. Side plans to
bring another of the Peter Seller’s
movies, “I’m All Right Jack.” This
time, Mr. Sellers depicts a shop
steward in an English plant where
nearly all the workers are lunatics.

“Sunset Boulevard,” a rerelease Mr.
Side is trying to get from Paramount
Pictures, is an early Billy Wilder
film with Gloria Swanson and Wil-
liam Holden. Gloria Swanson plays
a faded star of the pre-talkies who
sits in splendid decadence in her
palace on Sunset Boulevard. Wil-
liam Holden is the young writer
whom she traps to plan her come-
back.

William Holden is eventually de-
stroyed. She loses whatever contact
with reality she may have had as
she wonders, posing as if it were her
comeback among reporters who come
to her home as a result of Holden’s
death.

A Charlie Chaplin classic, “Mod-
ern Times,” may also be coming to
the Lyric screen. The last great sil-
ent film to be made, this 1936 sa-
tire comments on over mechan-
ization in the best Chaplin man-
ner.

“On the Waterfront,” the early
Brando film, is also on the list of
possibilities.

Lawrence Oliver’s “Henry V,” the
favorite of the English faculty, will
return this year. It is one of Oliver’s
most brilliant Shakespeare produc-
tion, and can never be seen enough.

 

Byrd Demo Reluctant To Join
With W&L Young Republicans

BY BILL ROBERTS

We struck a blow against apathy
last Tuesday and attended the
Young Republicans meeting up at
the Student Union. For someone
whose political views undergo fre-
quent sharp revisions, it was a big
move. and we did it with the under-
standing that we would remain Vir-
ginia Democrats for Nixon.

We are glad the meeting was at
night so we could slip in under cov-
er of darkness. When you have
wavering political ideas there’s no
point in alienating the other side.
You might be with them next month.
We were determined to be discreet.

So we walked timidly into
the Student Union, not to sure
what to expect. We found a table
covered with Nixon-Lodge liter-
ature and surrounded by a little
circle of beaming Nixon-Lodge
backers. We also found a beaming
faculty Republican who joined the
Young Republicans in welcoming
us to the fold.

We put on a little red, white and
blue badge proclaiming our prefer-
ence and began to feel a little more
at ease. Perhaps choosing sides
wasn’t too bad an idea after all.

The meeting began with a few
words by Dave Cook, the president,
on what they, oops, I mean we, are
up to. The Young Republicans plan
to work hard to get as many Wash-
ington and Lee students who are old
enough to vote for Nixon-Lodge
and to assist the Rockbridge County
Republicans in as many ways as pos-
sible.

Then a fellow we didn’t know told
about the meeting of all the Young
Republicans held in Charlottesville
the previous week. The Young Re-
publicans from the other schools
were glad to see W&L represented
at the meeting because W&L once
was a real force in Virginia Young
Republicans. W&L’s four represen-
tatives were able to outmaneuver
some larger delegations and were
quite a force at this meeting, we
were told.

The fellow we didn’t know went
on to say that Horace “Hunkie”
Henderson had made a very im-
pressive speech to the Young Re-
publicans at Charlottesville. Mr.
Henderson ran on the Republican
ticket for Congress and for Lieu-
tenant Governor in Virginia. He
put up a good although losing fight
and was rewarded with a job in
Washington.

Mr. Henderson had given pause to
our delegate by revealing that Vir-
ginia has one of the strongest po-
litical machines in the country. We
leaned back our chair, quite proud
of Mr. Byrd and his machine. But
the fellow we didn’t know was hor-
rified and implied that it was our
bounden duty to do _ everything

symbol of nationalism and equality| within our power to hasten the

(Continued on page 4)

breakup of the Byrd machine.

 

We didn’t take too kindly to that
part of our duty but reasoned ma-
turely that remarks of this sort were
a necessary consequence of choosing
sides.

The head of the local Republi-
cans, who was going to brief us on
what we could do in the County
campaign, didn’t show.

The meeting closed with a series
of short pep talks by some of the
leading Young Republicans. We got
pretty fired up.

We went out all aglow and jeered
at the Young Democrats, who were
rallying for a meeting. We were sad
to see, however, that there were five
or six more Young Democrats gath-
ered there than Young Republicans.

The next morning Dr. Jenks asked
if anyone in 9:20 French Revolution
had been to the Young Republican
meeting. We tentatively affirmed we
had. Did we have any Nixon-Lodge
bumper stickers? We did indeed.
“Well,” said Dr. Jenks, “someone
put one on my car last night and
my wife’s working on it with a razor
blade now.” We promise you we
didn’t do it, Dr. Jenks—the pep
talks weren’t that good. It was prob-
ably an anarchist.

 

Deferred Rush To Begin;
IFC President Recalls Rules

By HAL McCLANAHAN

Friday, Oct. 14 is the official date
for the beginning of deferred rush.
Those 76 freshmen who did not
pledge a fraternity during the formal
rush in September may now do so.

By not pledging a fraternity in the
regular rush period, the 76 members
of the Class of 1964 halted a grow-
ing four-year trend in increasing
fraternity enrollment. According to
Dean Frank J. Gilliam, about 15 of
those 57 boys in deferred rush last
year pledged fraternities after the
four-week interm between Septem-
ber rush and deferred rush.

The term “deferred rush,” simp-
ly means that starting this com-
ing Friday and running until the
end of their senior year, those
freshmen who did not pledge a
fraternity during the formal rush
may do so if they wish.

There are two main rules govern-
ing deferred rush. First a freshman
is free to go to the various frater-
nities he wishes to see; and the fra-
ternities, in turn, may invite the
freshman over to see them. A fresh-
man may have dinner with the fra-
ternity, or he may attend the various
social functions. The second rule
concerning deferred rush is the
pledging. The fraternity may extend
a bid to the freshman at its dis-
cretion, The freshman may either
accept the bid then or give the fra-
ternity his answer at another time.

(Continued on page 4)

 

Webster Unabridged

Impressions Of
Weekend Blast

By ED WEBSTER

Random impressions of Home-
coming weekend:

... The unflagging labor Thursday
and Friday to construct the dis-
plays. Books were forgotten for the
sake of these monsters, who were
conceived through a blend of elbow
grease and midnight oil, and who
grew to maturity by devouring box-
es of Kleenex...

... Delight at Friday’s blue skies,
turning to dismay at Saturday’s gray-
ness. But the gods, not unmindful
of the Minks, did turn off the rain
long enough to give the home folks
an enjoyable Saturday afternoon...

...My sense of futility as the
Wilson Field ticket-taker demand-
ed two handsome dollar bills so
my date could watch the game.
Maybe the University is trying to
push big-time box office, even
though big-time football is ex-
tinet....

... The red-vested idiot two rows
behind us who snarled, “Sit down,
it’s only a touchdown.” May his tribe
vanish from our fair campus....

...Our delight at some sterling
plays, done perfectly depite the mud.
The first quick kick, for instance, or
that blocked punt-touchdown com-
bination. ....

...-The quadrupling of the
Homecoming atmospere by our
cheerleaders and the three
bands....

... The premature (and unmourn-
ed) death of the Mongolian Minks’
and Thirteen Club’s annual halftime
fiasco....

... Sitting in the Lobby at Sem
for an hour Sunday afternoon,
soaking up the Victorian grotes-
ness of the place. Also noticing all
the warden-ladies’ efforts to keep
the girls from doing anything un-
seemly, I still fear that the girls

(Continued on page 4)

Che Ring-tum Phi
Tuesday Edition

The Ring-tum Phi is published Tues-
day and Friday during the college year.
It is printed by the Journalism Labor-
ony Press, ashington and Lee Uni-
versity. The mailing address is Box
899, Lexington, Va,

Entered as second class matter Sep-
tember 20, 1946 at the Post Office, Lex-
ington, Va., under the act of March

National Advertising Representative:
The National Advertisers Service, Inc.,
420 Madison Ave., New York, N.Y.

 

oo ee Rosewell Page, III
Business Manager.............. Huntley Biggs

Editorial Board
Managing Editor................. Bill Roberts
Assistant Managing Editor...
hss Nabpiiesen isis Gilabinas ie Steve Galef
..Bob Bridewell
Sports Editor...

essen Steve Guild
ly ee Harvey Allen
Associate Editors........Lanny Butler, Bill

Smith, Ronnie King

   
 

CORY TAI G Pi cisessasscssscensserccs Roger Paine,
Hunter Manson
Photography Editor..........000 Bill Young

 

One of our English professors has
seen “Henry V” more times than
we are years old.

The schedule may include two
Bergman movies. The earlier Berg-
man films have enjoyed quite a
vogue with the New Yorkers.
One of the spiciest, “Lesson in
Love,” which deals with the pri-
vate affairs of a doctor centers on
a bet of love. We hope for this
one.

“Rosemary,” another hopeful, in-
volves a bunch of Nazi nouveaux-
riches who have a common interest
in a common but clever young trol-
lop. Nadja Tiller, as the inspiring
tart, eventually winds up dead.

The engagements of many of these
programs are still tentative. With
the vital place that films occupy
in the art world, they should find no
lack of support around a college
town. Mr. Side’s decision on many
of these films will depend to a large
degree on student affirmation and
support. With such an exciting pro-
gram, this should be no problem.

Columnist Asks
Aid To Alumni

By HUGO HOOGENBOOM

After Homecomings and the num-
ber of alumni who did come home,
the university or the Alumni Asso-
ciation should start to think about
building or buying an Alumni Hall
or some similar sort of place to
which returning alumni could go.
As it is now, alumni usually gravi-
tate to their respective fraternity
houses, and then, when things get
too bad, back to the hotel room.
This means that any homecomings
or other alumni gathering is a frac-
tional thing, and classmates only
meet haphazardly, which mars the
effect of a Homecomings.

 

The alumni, especially those who
are past the point of having friends
in school, need a place at which they
can meet, a focal point, as it were.
This would result in attracting more
alumni back, not only for Home-
comings, but other important week-
ends. That in turn would increase
interest in the school and make
alumni fund raising much easier. The
plain fact of the matter is, though,
that they should have some other
place besides the well-worn mezza-
nine of the Robert E. Lee in which

to meet.
* * *

Recent commentaries on the “hon-
orary organizations” have been ex-
tremely interesting, indicative of
what might be termed in this aca-
demic world “The new Functional-
ism.” “If it serves no useful purpose,
throw it out.” This is all very well,
but who is to apply the test of use-
fulness? What will the standards be?

PAN, White Friars, Sigma, “13”
(to none of which your correspon-
dent belongs) are all essentially
harmless and all emphatically vol-
untary. They may neither sow nor
reap, but that shouldn’t concern any-
one so long as they don’t disgrace
the university. You may talk of
twentieth century colleges, but the
twentieth century isn’t so damned
distinguished that it can’t tolerate
a few harmless organizations. The
crux of the issue lies in the fact
that these societies serve no purpose
discernible to the critics. These crit-
ie probably want to see the student
body organized and aimed at pur-
poses of their choosing. It is their
answer to the “National Purpose”
articles which ran recently in a
popular magazine of immense circu-
lation. Why must everything serve
a purpose?

Using the same reasoning, a vigor-
ous attack could be made on the
whole system of conventional dress.
Men are forced to wear coat and tie
to no real purpose when khakis and
sweaters would answer as well to
hide their nakedness and_ protect
them from the cold. For another ex-
ample, beanies are a real hang-over
from the nineteenth century, design-
ed expressly to make the wearer
look foolish. If freshmen have to be
identified, surely there is some more
civilized way of doing it. The very
word beanie brings to mind those
horrible juvenile capers and shouts
of “Hey, frosh!” in Hollywood’s col-
lege movies. These things are indeed
purposeless and involuntary.

Let things be.

* * *

A word about Steve Allen. Allen,
a singer of a recent advertisement
for the Committee for a Sane Nuclear
Policy and a member of that commit-
tee, demonstrated this weekend his
moral and artistic integrity in a
movie called “College Confidential.”
Hollywood demonstrated, for those
of us who had forgotten, its ability to
out-do television without really even
trying.

 

 
 

THE RING-TUM PHI

Page 3

 

W&L Downs Diplomats, 38-8

5-Star Generals Defeat F&M
Before Big Homecoming Crowd

By JOHN DEAN

Washington and Lee’s Generals
played nearly perfect football on
in
routing Franklin and Marshall, 38-

Wilson Field here Saturday

8.

The unbeaten Generals came up
to their potential for the first time
this season in spite of a wet field.
Fortunately a steady morning drizzle
quit just before the kickoff be-

fore 3,500 homecoming fans.

Coach Lee McLaughlin’s charges
rolled up 496 yards total offense
while piling up 24 first downs.
Meanwhile, the General defense
confined F&M to only 173 total
yards and 9 first downs.

The Generals’ first score was made
with seven and a half minutes re-
maining in the first period. W&L took
the opening kick-off and marched
79 yards with Bob Funkhouser
slipping over for the goal for a 6-0

lead.

W&L’s second score came in the
second quarter after a clipping
penalty had nullified a touchdown
by Steve Suttle. With the ball on
the F&M 26, Doug Martin rushed
off tackle and went all the way
for the score. Suttle then ran for

2 points making the score 14-0.

The Generals made it 22-0 about
five minutes later after driving 77
yards. A 15 yard run by Funkhouser
and a 32 yard pass from Suttle to
Hobbs put the ball on the Diplomats
26. Martin picked up a first down on
the three. Funkhouser scored and

Martin ran for the two points.

The Diplomats’ initial first down
came late in the second period
when John Tomasko returned a
50 yard quick kick by Martin to
the W&L 48. This drive was stalled
as the quarter ended.

W&L increased its lead to 30-0
early in the third quarter when Ned
Hobbs blocked an F&M punt, picked
up the loose ball on the two and

ran
(Continued on page 4)

 

it over for the touchdown.

sete

 

Quarterback Chuck Lane eludes a F&M tackler to pick up
extra yardage.

The Coaches Corner

ane ora emerge menmences ean ey

And Assesses

The performance of our Generals |
was gratifying. There were heroes |
aplenty, but again it was a squad vic- |
tory with each player contributing
his part to win.

Doug Martin and Bobby Funk-
houser will be the first to tell you
that running through a line can be
very difficult unless there is block-
ing. The boys up front deserve a
great deal of credit for the win.

Barton Dick is my choice for the
unsung hero of the game. Barton,
who played mostly on defense, had |
the assignment of containing Frank-
lin and Marshall’s fine running back
John Tomasko. John only made one
long run, and this was while Barton
was on the sidelines. John caught a
touchdown pass but this was not in
Barton’s department.

You may not believe this but
Coach Williams saw Randolph-
Macon lose on the last play of
their game with Western Maryland.
It was just a week earlier that
he had seen Franklin and Marshall
lose to Johns Hopkins on the last
play of the game.

 

 

YARDSTICK
W&L F&M
Pires GOWTS orsssccssscsssee 24 9
Rushing yardage........ 437 79
Pass Yardage................ 98 94
OOO: sssitsinsnisisicsscene 6-10 6-23 *x—
Passes intercepted b 5 1
FN ccc dh 0062 Cross-Country Team Beats
Fumbles lost sin 2 1 = :
Yards penalized.......... 83 5 Washington and Lee’s cross-coun-

 

Martin Is Selected
Player of the Week

A great deal of credit for our
victory over the Diplomats of Frank-
lin and Marshall last Saturday can
be attributed to Doug Martin, the
159-pound fullback. His top-notch
running and kicking in the Home-
comings game has earned him the
title of this week’s player-of-the
week.

Doug, a junior from Ft. Thomas,
Ky., reeled off 172 yards rushing
on 13 carries, including his two
touchdown rushes of 26 and 58
yards. This is compared to his
record last year for 27 runs for a
total of 104 yards rushing.

In Saturday’s game Doug scored
two of the Blue and White’s five
touchdowns and two extra points.
In addition to his ground game, there
is his kicking record for the after-

(Continued on page 4)

 

WHAT IS THIS?

ss

 

(See story on page 4)

 

SHSSSOSS SESS SSS00000099050 9900090000000 S 000000001

Shirt Service as You Like it

UNIVERSITY CLEANERS

HO 3-3622

*
“Your Campus Neighbors”

3

4

4

4

Quality Cleaning and Pressing :
;

4

4

Meebo bee rhe nhe hee rtene e rhe ne rhe ote oe ene ole oe see afore se eof eae re se eae re seo see eae feat age

 

4
*
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
.

 

 

 

The Southern Inn

Cordially invites you to make this your headquarters for good food
Here you get the best food for the most reasonable prices

Our Specialties:
Steaks, Chicken, Country Ham, and the best sandwiches

in town

Meet your friends here

 

 

 

 

te
.
te
.
a
e
e
ie
.
4
te
ie
.
.
i
ie
if
e
le
%
a
%
+
‘+
ie
a
a
a
4
re
a
le
.
.
le
i.
.
.
ik
a
ie
i.
le
‘.
.
e
ie
.
te
i.
te
te

 

lo Me Ma te the tha Ba Ba te Ba Ba Bata Ba a Bae Bate Ba Ba Bata Ba Ba Ba he ta te hata a tte ta a ta tte ta Ba tea ha ha a a ta a Ba a ta the ta ha Baie
—

 

STUDENT ACCOUNTS
INVITED HERE

Regular or Special Accounts

The Peoples National Bank

101 South Main Street
Lexington, Virginia
Member Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
oho oho ofe of ee oe eae ae oe oe ofa aden of nfo oe oe fe oe ere oe ee ae ee eof oe oe ofa of oa ae ae ae ae fee ale

%
:
:
%
;
|
;
;

Geode obe ode obe oboe oe rfe rhe nfo ode ofe afe rhea ofe oe ese oe eae neo oe oe e ae reo nese oes oe ae oe oe oe fe af rte nfo ote

 

try team swept to victory over the
Tigers of Hampden-Sydney by the
score of 18 to 45. The near sweep was
quite a surprise to the Generals, for
the Hampden-Sydney meet was sup-
posed to be one of the toughest
meets this year.

Mike Shank again led the Gen-
erals in the unusually fast time of
22:43. This time was only 26 sec-

 

 

 

Meteo oe ote sheets enteoterte se otete teste tenteote
% %
= IDEAL :
* BARBER SHOP
- %
* QUICK SERVICE *
% %

ae

_

 

 

Randolph-Macon has a good pass-
ing attack. Jim Gravett is doing
the throwing, and the fine receiving
ends are LeRoy Davenport and Walt
Pendley. Clay Johnson has develop-
ed into a very good running back.
Our defenses will have to contend

H-S For 3rd Straight Win

onds off Washington and Lee’s record
time set by Shank last year in the

(Continued on page 4)

 

 

Green Valley Motel

One Mile North on
U. S. Highway No. 11

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA
HO 3-2195

 

 

 

Radio Hospital

*
Radio, TV, Phonograph
Sales and Service

*

HO 3-3531

 

 

 

 

 

 

you're ready

for anything in

ADLERS!

ADLERS, IN WHITE AND COLORS, FOR MEN AND WOMEN, AVAILABLE AT

The College Town Shop

Thomas, Ltd.

and better stores everywhere

Coach Mac Pratses Line

R-M Team

   

Coach Lee McLaughlin

with both phases of the enemy of-
fense.

Most of you will remember the
wild 33-33 tie we had with Randolph-
Macon last year. The Jackets have
promised their rooters a sure victory
over W&L this year. I believe our
boys want to win also. It should be
a lively affair.

“Coach Mac”

 

 

For those extra pieces

of
FURNITURE

for your room
see our stock
before buying

oe
VARNER AND POLE

 

 

 

 

     

ADIT.

* eee
This is the B-52. Advanced as it
may be, this airplane has one thing
in common with the first war-
galleys of ancient Egypt...and
with the air and space vehicles of
the future. Someone must chart its
course. Someone must navigate it.

For certain young men this pre-
sents a career of real executive
opportunity. Here, perhaps you
will have the chance to master a
profession full of meaning, excite-
ment and rewards...as a Naviga-
tor in the U.S. Air Force.

To qualify for Navigator train-
ing as an Aviation Cadet you must
be an American citizen between 19
and 26¥2—single, healthy and in-
telligent. A high school diploma is
required, but some college is highly
desirable. Successful completion of
the training program leads to a
commission as a Second Lieuten-
ant...and your Navigator wings.

If you think you have what it
takes to measure up to the Avia-
tion Cadet Program for Naviga-
tor training, see your local Air
Force Recruiter. Or clip and mail
this coupon,

There’s a place for tomorrow’s

leaders on the
§ . S.

Air Force

MAIL THIS COUPON TODAY

AVIATION CADET INFORMATION
DEPT, SCLOLO
BOX 7608, WASHINGTON 4, D. C.

I am between 19 and 26 1/2, a citizen
of the U. 8. and a high school gradu-
ate with. . years of college. Please
send me detailed information on the
Air Force Aviation Cadet program,
Name .......

RP NG bisdiiiidiniininiiedesdsecs dice
TURN isiisitsniiiasuuiiddis nid es
Ne ii vcliiasirciaiaiseiecccssesd State..........

 
 

 

Page 4

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

Dr. Gunn Attends Meeting;
Says It is Good Experience

(Continued from page 1)

and Michael M. Mora, General Man-
ager of the Norfolk Port and In-
dustrial Authority, who spoke on the
Washington and Lee campus during
International Relations Week in 1958.

Mr. Gunn has been attending the
Trade Conference for the past three
years, and had this to say concerning
its merits for economics students.

Lexington Cops
Recover Thefts |

Town police have arrested a
16-year-old boy for the thefts of
pocketbooks and money from sev-
eral fraternity houses Saturday
night.

According to Police Chief A. E.
Rhodenizer, the boy was appre-
hended about 1:30 a.m. Sunday.
In his possession were three pock-
etbooks and $44 in cash.

Rhodenizer said the boy also
showed the police where he had
thrown other pocketbooks into
hedges.

The boy admitted visiting the
Phi Kap, KA, Delt and Phi Gam
houses, the chief said.

“We believe there were three
or four other boys involved,”
Rhodenizer added.

He urged students to inquire at
the police station if their dates lost
pocketbooks over the weekend.

He also warned fraternity men
to be wary of non-students visit-
ing their houses on weekends.

Miller Praises Harriers
(Continued from page 3)

State meet. Second place was taken
by the General’s Stoney Duffey.
Rob Zerbe of Hampden-Sydney
came in third.

After the meet, Coach Dick Mil-
ler said, “The victory was very satis-
fying after our loss to the Tigers
last year. The team is improving
with each meet, especially fresh-
men Mike Brumby, Norm Young-
blood, and Robert Williams.”

 

Webster

(Continued from page 2)

 

NOTICE

get most of their education on

There will be a Pi Sigma Alph
ere will be a Pi Sigma Alpha an.

meeting tomorrow night, Wednes-
day, Oct. 12, at 7:30 p.m., 3rd floor
of Newcomb Hall.

What Is This?
Tennis Tourney Trophy

Thomas, Ltd., the successor to

... The festivities Saturday after-
noon and night at the fraternities,
with the few alumni looking be-
wildered and somewhat envious.
Don’t worry, fellows; I can’t dig
rock ’n’ roll either....
| ...Finally, on Sunday aiternoon,
a little boy picking pieces of rain-
Earl N. Levitt in Lexington, has do- soaked Kleenex out of the fallen
nated to the University a new trophy | colussus on the front lawn....
for the fall tenis tournament: This| 2.

replaces the individual awal ds which

 

 

 

| world.

| Advantages of Late Rush
Cited by Lefkowitz

same | (Continued from page 2)

“This is a good opportunity for stu-
dents to see a businessman’s con-
ference in action, and hear some
competent speeches at the
time.”

 

| When the freshman accepts a
| house’s bid, the fraternity will turn
| in his name at the IFC meeting
| the following Monday night.

Rally was excellent, in spite of | IFC President, Dave Lefkowitz,
the dampening effects of the rain. has the following to say about defer-
He also felt that the alumni were | "ed rush: “The big advantage in de-
very much impressed by this year’s | ferred rush is the informality which
Homecoming decorations. | surrounds it. Both the freshman

land the fraternity may consider
Although he has not had time to} each other in a more relaxed at-
make an official report, he felt that |
all classes were well represented,

aan tee an ke oe uals longer and see firsthand the

members of the Board of Trustees | true character and manele of the fra-
: : | ternity in its everyday life. The fra-
were present. | ternity, by the same means, gets to
‘know the freshman much better
‘than it might have in the formal
| rush.”
| It must also be pointed out, that
for all, will get control of an atomic! a fraternity may have already pledg-
bomb, and thus have a major share eq as many as they feel they need
in the councils and destiny of the | -
ee errs

Alumni Return for Game
(Continued from page 1)

mosphere.
The freshman may talk to individ-

 

Not Racist Article

(Continued from page 2)

*

Author’s note: I do not by any |
means intend this as a racist article— |
this could happen in any under-
developed country, with any race,
and my own position is a political
and social one, not ethnic.

THE NEW

White Top

Restaurant
*

 

 

 

BROWN’S
CLEANING
WORKS
We call for

and deliver
HO 3-2018 14 Randolph St.

A personal invitation
to the
Students

Try our delicious foods
Route 60 East

Sete rle Serbo dente ke ole oe nde ohe ooh se oe nfo fe oho fe eof afe ode ode nde ole feof fe ode ofegeote

Beeb ete loh holetertereheeledetetehttetetetoy

 

 

 

have been given in previous years
TUES.-WED.

ebeteteteoheoteteteseoiteteteteteteteteseden

 

 

 

by Earl N.’s. The new trophy which
is a silver cup on a walnut base
Daily Coal
fonr S
iv EN

will stay in the trophy case in the
KAYE « JU
wicoLe MAUREY

gym. It will be named the University
Fall Tennis Tournament Trophy, and

ME AND
THE

each year the name of the winner
of the tournament will be inscribed
on the silver plate on the base.
The tournament which is under the
direction of Tennis Coach Bill Wash-
burn has been in progress over since
last week and is in its final stages.
There were originally 32 entrants.
The principal purpose of the tourna-
ment is to show up new talent and
arouse interest in any who have lat- Ci
ent potentiality. OLONEL
Those left to compete in the A COURT-GOETZ PICTURE
tournament are John Baker, Dave
Lefkowitz, Hugh Trout, Peter Chand-
ler, and Jerry Wilbourn.

  

 

 

 

 

 

VARSITY
BILLIARD
ACADEMY

STANLEY WARNER

STATE

LEXINGTON, VA.

|_ HOBART 3-3424 |

 

 

WED. through SAT.

Dedicated to the
NEW Monroe Doctrine!

Catering
To Students

Corner of

Washington and Jefferson

 

 

 

 

sleet obeteoteteobeteoteotecteteoteoteteteoteotens

White’s Music

Store

(Opposite State Theater)
vt
Phonographs—Hi-Fi

      

JERRY WALO'S ‘

production

Expert Repair Service

i

5 W. Nelson St.
HO 3-3522

a

TOY RANDALL - FRANKIE VAUG
ouanct coon « WORMAN KRSNA” = Addihonal Material by

CINEmMaAScOPE. coton ey DELUXE

Lexington, Va.

 

eee eet footed ete ofeobefeofocbeeofecfecbetecteogeteateogecbegong

HAL KANTER

eho rhe oho oho he oho oho oe ae we ofe she fe ne ale ae fe fe ae ale ole eae ae fe fe ale ole oleate fe ofeofe ode

tet

 

 

\ 4 % % % % ahs of of + ke % ee whee Od % ee % he %
sees detetetetetetndeeteoeoeledetbeleteteteteteetetetetetetetbbetebebidetetbtk

 

The First National Bank

of Lexington
*
has special checking accounts

for students

 

 

 

Football Continued
(Continued from page 3)

Funkhouser
points.

added the two extra

F&M got its offense rolling for
once and went 63 yards in three
plays for its only score. Tomasko
scored on a pass play from Reese
who added the two points.

After W&L had fumbled twice in-
side the Diplomats 20 yard line,
F&M’s Gebbard punted out of
bounds on the W&L 15. On the first
play, Martin broke through tackle
and raced 85 yards for W&L’s final
touchdown. Quarterback Chuck
Lane ran the extra points to make
the score 38-8.

 

and will not be interested in pledg-
ing any more boys.

 

| Martin’s Game Saturday

Earns Player of the Week
(Continued from page 3)

noon. Both of his quick kicks for
61 and 58 yards caught the Diplo-
mats by surprise and helped to keep
the Franklin and Marshall crew on
the defensive.

Coach McLaughlin feels that
Martin’s performance was excel-
lent and that he will continue to
be a valuable member of the team.

It should be noted that Doug was
particularly “up” for this game be-
cause last year at Lancaster when
the Generals played the Diplomats,
he was injured on the second play
of the game. This year he was seek-
ing his revenge and from the final
score it seems that he was success-
ful.

Finest

SUNDAY

Ted’s Steak House

Choice Meats
Ww

Route 60 Buena Vista

SCOPHOHSHOHSOHHSHOSOHOSHOSOOCOOCHHSSOHOHDOBODSOCOOHSS

Foods

DINNERS

 

 

 

ROCKBRIDGE LAUNDRY

and
Dry Cleaners

Shirts Transparently Wrapped
for Freshness
*
AGENTS:

Fraternities, Dorms and Co-op

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Filters for

flavor
—finest flavor by far!

Tareyton has the taste—

Dual Filter
does it!

 

ote >a
+ &
- We Feature &
% :
: SEALTEST :
% s
* z
* Dairy Products *
ee *
z “To get the best get Sealtest”’ *
* 2 ; Ss %
* over twenty different products in addition to *
* delicious Sealtest ice cream *
st
* Og
$ Block and Crushed Ice *
% ; s o
% Your favorite mixes—Ice Cold z
£ :
* * *
* %
istributors, Inc. |
¢ Maple-Rock Distributors, Inc. :
*
: Phone HO 3-2168 :
%
Peedebdegopdetegengee edt teed ded ee edegtebdttendete |

 

NEW DUAL FILTER Tar

D : “a “
Product of Jit Menten Sebaceo Company _ Sobaceo is our middle name ©a. T. co.

 

 
 
   

 

HERE’S HOW THE DUAL FILTER DOES IT:

1. It combines a unique inner filter of ACTIVATED CHARCOAL

definitely proved to

make the taste of a cigarette mild and smooth...

2. with a pure white outer filter, Together they select and balance
the flavor elements in the smoke. Tareyton’s flavor-balance gives
you the best taste of the best tobaccos.

eyton
 

 

FRIDAY
Edition

Che King-tiun Phi

Washington and Lee Semi-Weekly Newspaper

FRIDAY
Edition

 

Volume LXI

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA, OCTOBER 14, 1960

Number 9

 

University Candidate

 
    

Ed Croft

Independent Candidate

sagnogengnn

   

Bill Noell

Freshmen To Elect
EC Member Monday

By DAN BELL
Staff Reporter

Two weeks of campaigning will
be climaxed by the election of the
freshman Executive Committeeman
which will be held Monday at 7
p.m., in Lee Chapel. The floor will
be opened for nominations other
than the two already announced, and
this will be followed by a nominating
speech and a seconding speech for
each candidate.

Each of the two parties, the Uni-
versity and the Independent, have
nominated a candidate.

The University Party’s candidate
is Ed Croft, a KA pledge. He is
from Atlanta, Georgia, where he
graduated from Westminster School.

While a student of Westminster, he
was president of the Honor Council,
a member of the Student Council,
Key Club, and president of his
Junior Class.

Active in Athletics

Croft was active in athletics, serv-
ing as co-captain of the football
and track teams, winning seven let-

ters and four “most valuable player”
awards.

A member of the freshman football
team he is on the Ring-tum Phi
staff, and president of the KA Pledge
Class.

Bill Noell is the Independent Par-
ty’s choice for freshman Executive
Committeeman. Bill graduated from
Bluefield High School in Bluefield,
W. Va. Noell did not pledge a frater-
nity, but expects to go through de-
ferred rush.

President of Student Body

Noell was president of the student
body and salutatorian of his class,
International Vice-President of Key
Club, an Honor Society Member,
and president of both the National
Forensic and the National Thespians.

He plans to participate in spring
sports and join the debate team at
W&L.

The winner of this election will
fill the 12th seat on the EC, the
organization which controls student
body activities and is the judicial
court for honor violations.

 

Student Forum

May Be Held
With Smathers

Washington and Lee students may

- get the chance to hold a student
-|forum with Senator George Smath-

ers of Florida when he comes to
Lexington on Oct. 20.

Charles H. Davidson, a local at-
torney and chairman of the Rock-
bridge County Democratic Commit-
tee, said Wednesday that if there
were “sufficient student interest, then
the possibility of holding a student
forum with the senator following the
regular luncheon meeting might be
worked out.”

Davidson said that he had received
word from Richmond Wednesday
that the Senator would be in Lex-
ington long enough to hold such
a forum for students if they were
interested.

Jerry Hyatt, a Delt junior who
is chairman of W&L’s Students For
Kennedy and Johnson Club, said
today that all students who would
like to attend such a forum should
contact him at HO3-5626 in the
Freshman Dormitory by sometime
tonight, or early Saturday.

“Students must let me or some
member of the Students for Kennedy
Committee know by tomorrow,”
Hyatt said, “because we have to let
the Senator and Mr. Davidson know
if he is to hold such a discussion or
not.”

Davidson said that the forum will
possibly be held on the mezzanine
of the Robert E. Lee Hotel, depend-
ing on the number of students who
plan to attend.

The forum will probably be held
from 3-5 p.m. on Oct. 20, Davidson
added.

Senator Smathers will be in Lex-
ington to address a luncheon at the
Robert E. Lee Hotel at 12:30 on that
day.

At its meeting Tuesday night, the
Young Democrat Club was urged
to support a series of rallies for
the Kennedy-Johnson ticket. These
rallies are to be held up and down
the Shenandoah Valley from Lex-
ington to Winchester. Bill Ford, a
senior law student, is in charge of
obtaining student support for the
rallies.

 

 

Troubs Formally

The Troubadour Theatre of Wash-
ington and Lee University was
adopted as the official name of the
school dramatics organization at a
meeting held last Tuesday evening,

The Troubadour’s new director Dr.
Cecil D. Jones and a committee of
students who had served in official
capacities with the group in the past
presented the meeting with a Con-
stitution and By-laws which were

Organized With New Constitution

unanimously approved. This was the
first time that the campus theatre
has ever considered organizing
around a formal document. In the
past officers and policies had been
determined by choice of the faculty
director alone. Dr. Jones emphasized
that the new Constitution would
give the organization a_ student
governing body with a more direct
| voice in its administration.

Karl Schrag Paintings In duPont;
Two One-Man Shows Slated Next

By JOHN KIRKLEY
Staff Reporter

A collection of paintings by Karl
Schrag is now being exhibited in
duPont Hall. The paintings are from
the Whitney Museum of American
Art and will hang for another two
weeks.

This exhibit is very interesting,
because, through it, one can see the
gradual development and maturation
of an outstanding artist. His early
paintings show his technical pro-
ficiency. In particular, two early self-
portraits give one a distinct impres-
sion of a thoughtful, sincere, and
quite sensitive young man. In an
oil self-portrait dated two decades
later, one can see the artist has de-
veloped and aged mentally as well

as physically. The somber hues of |

the early oil are in direct contrast
to the brighter colors of the later
portrait.

Karl Schrag was born in Kalsruhe,
Germany. His father was German;
his mother was from New York. Karl
was a frail child. When his family
moved to Zurich in 1931, he missed
his frequent excursions into the
Black Forest near his home town.
His passionate interest in nature
dates from this time.

After studying in Geneva, Paris,
and Brussels, he came to New York
with his brother in 1938. Here he
came under the influence of Stanley
Williams Hayter, who has had a

marked and lasting effect on the
life of Schrag.
Schrag’s “Evening Sky” (1954)

exemplifies his growing interest in

color and in the combining of var-
ious media, and shows his develop-
ing passion with the line as a form
of expression. Other painting of this
stage, particularly the beautiful
“Rainstorm,” give evidence of his
early interest in nature, particularly
in the sky, trees, and the ocean.

Pictures of the late forties and
early fifties show a new and im-
portant development in the artistic
life of Schrag. Here he begins to
express such abstract concepts as
heat, fragrance, the sense impres-
sions at certain times of day. We
have titles like “Falling Night,”
“Evening Radiance,” and “Heat
Wave.”

There are lyric and poetic qualities
to his works; there is a deep, almost
innate, and rather mystical feeling
for nature; and there is also a slight
; Oriental flavor in his art. His “Dark
| Trees and “Sunny Meadows,” “Last
Glow in the Woods,” and “Stillness
and Reflection” are good illustra-
tions of these qualities.

 

Finally we come to his master-
pieces of the late fifties. Schrag’s
journey to Spain left a deep impres-
sion on him and on his work. We
see the dry heat of Spain in his
“Oropesa” and in the burning hot
“Red Quarry” of 1958. “The Island,”
one of his masterpieces, dates from
this period.

“Seeing, feeling and thinking are
all combined in my work as they
are in myself.” This quotation and
his sense of the continuity of nature
are seen in “The Sound of the Sea,”

(Continued on page 4)

 

| The Constitution stated three pur-
poses that the Troubadour Theatre
is to strive toward. The Theatre is
to provide an organization to bring
together students interested in the
theatrical arts. It is to provide an op-
portunity for students to gain ex-
perience in mounting theatrical pro-
ductions. Its final purpose will be
to encourage a greater understand-
ing of the theatre as an art among
the students of the University.

The major changes in the Trouba-
dour organization introduced in the
By-laws were the creation of two
new executive positions. There are
now five officers of the Theatre in-
cluding the President, the Seasonal
Stage Manager, the Publicity Direc-
tor, the Personnel Director, and the
Business Manager. This group to-
gether with two members-at-large
will form the Troubadour’s execu-
tive committee.

Also included in the By-laws was
a detailed point system to be used
for determination of members quali-
fication for the group’s two types of
membership and for the various
official duties.

The two types of membership are
Apprentice memberships and Voting
memberships. The Apprentice mem-
berships are open to all newcomers
to the Troubadour’s. This would in-
clude all freshmen interested in
working with the Troubs. Voting
members are those members who
have earned a specified number of
points through service to the Theatre.

The Troubadour Theatre will hold
monthly meetings this year as speci-
fied in its constitution. These meet-
ings will be devoted to programs on
the theatre arts and perhaps include
a series of motion pictures. These
meetings will provide the members
with a background of theatrical his-
tory and lore in addition to practical
production experience.

The Troubadour Theatre will hold
its next meeting on Tuesday evening
at 7 p.m. at the Theatre building.
This meeting will be for the election
of officers for the 1960-61 season.
Freshmen interested in working with
the Troubadours in either acting or
technical capacities are urged to at-
tend this meeting.

 

Six newly selected SWMSFC members.

 

 

Washington and Lee University
will play host Oct. 21-23 to some
800 mothers, fathers, and guardians
of students for the sixth annual
Parents’ Weekend here.

Advaned reservations for hous-
ing and tickets to the parent’s lunch-
eon show that attendance for the
weekend will probably be the largest |
since the program was initiated in
1955.

Purpose of the weekend program
is to provide students’ parents an
opportunity to visit the Washington
and Lee campus, hold individual |
conferences with members of the
faculty and hear reports from uni-
versity and student body officials.

Parents’ Weekend is under the
sponsorship of the university and
the Parents’ Advisory Council, a'|
56-member body whose special in-
terest in Washington and Lee af-
fords an effective communications
channel between the universitiy and
the students’ parents.

James W. Whitehead, assistant to
the president for administration and
director of university relations, heads
up the arrangements for the pro-
gram.

Registration for parents and other
guests will open at 10 am. Friday
and will continue until 9 p.m. Par-
ents requesting conferences will be
able to meet with faculty members
that afternoon.

The Parents’ Advisory Council
will meet at 2:30 p.m. in the confer-
ence room of the year-old Evans
Dining Hall. L. P. Nelson, Jr., of
Culpeper is the 1960 chairman of
the council. His successor will be
named at this session.

Five Washington and Lee facul-
ty members will participate in Fri-
day night’s program at 8. Professor
O. W. Riegel, chairman of the de-
partment of journalism and com-
munications, and Dr. Ollinger Cren-
shaw, professor of history, will de-
bate “Political Campaigning—Then
and Now.” Dr. E. D. Myers, chair-
man of the department of philoso-
phy; and Dr. Marshall W. Fishwick,
professor of American studies, will
discuss “Educational Perspectives at
Home and Abroad.” Both Doctor
Myers and Fishwick have been in
Europe within the last two years.

Dr. Marion Junkin, chairman of
the department of fine arts, will be

Billy Martin Represents
Philip Morris On Campus

Billy Martin, a Sigma Chi senior
from Englewood, N. J., has been
selected by Philip Morris, Inc. as

its Washington and Lee student rep-
resentative for this year.

Martin says that the campus-wide
contests will be larger than ever this
year. Individuals and organizations |
will compete for the prizes on an|
equal basis.

The first contest will begin later
this month, and the rules and prizes |
will be announced at a later date.

 

 

W&L Host To Parents
With Weekend Program

the fifth faculty member of the
evening’s program.

Many parents have scheduled ap-
pointments with their sons’ profes-
sors Saturday morning. The oppor-
tunity to meet face to face with
faculty members has been one of the
most popular features of former
parents’ weekend programs. Some
parents will attend classes with their
sons.

The Student Service Society will
conduct guided tours around the

|campus throughout the morning.

The highlight of Saturday’s sche-
dule will be the annual “Report to
Parents” by university and student
body officials. The 11 a.m. program
will open with a talk by student

| body president R. Kent Frazier of

Tampa, Fla. His talk will be followed
by reports from Dr. William W.
Pusey, Dean of the College; Dr.
Lewis W. Adams, Dean of the School
of Commerce and Business Adminis-
tration; Professor Charles P. Light,
Dean of the School of Law; and
Frank J. Gilliam, Dean of Students
and Director of Admissions.

President Fred C. Cole will close
the program in Doremus Gymnasium
with a report on his work.

A buffet luncheon for parents,
students and faculty will be held
from 12:15 to 1:45 p.m. in the dining
hall.

Parents and guests are then sche-
duled to atend the football game at
Wilson Field between Washington
and Lee and Johns Hopkins Uni-
versity. A Glee Club Concert is set
for 8:30 p.m. in the gymnasium.

The parents are invited to attend
the churches in Lexington Sunday
morning.

(Continued on page 4)

Mock Trial Set
For Kidnappers

By C. C. FLIPPEN
Staff Reporter

Students in the Freshman Dorm
were more than mildly shaken from
their studies Wednesday night by
screams of “Kidnappers, you tried
to kidnap me.”

Pouring out of the Dorm, they
were able to witness the opening
act of the Student Bar Association’s
bi-annual Mock Trial.

 

John Hess hes accused Warren
Welsch and Jack Buchanan of kid-
napping him. Hess said the two

students asked him to go for a ride
after he had left the Paramount
Inn. When he got in the car they
drew a gun on him and forced him
to drive. In an effort to escape Hess
said he drove the car into an on-
coming vehicle. In the wreck Welsh
was thrown from the car and re-

| ceived minor injuries. The other car

was driven by John Petzold.
It was later learned from Richard
(Continued on page 4)

SW MSFC Selects Members;
W&L Political Lines Broken

Montgomery
Representing
Independents

By ROY GOODWIN
Assistant Managing Editor

Five members of the Student War
Memorial Scholarship Fund Com-
mittee were selected at a meeting
of the organization held last Tuesday
night at the Student Union.

New Members are Dave Montgom-
ery, John Mullin, John Refo, Danny
Markstein, and Lanny Butler.

The election of Montgomery into
the organization, marks the splitting
of the formerly University Party
dominated group. Montgomery is a
Delt sophomore, and is consequently
a member of the Independent Party.

Last Independent in 1955

The last member of the Indepen-
dent Party to become a member of
SWMFC came in 1955 when John
Grobey, also a Delt, was elected to
the group.

Tuesday’s election doesn’t mark

» the first time that Montgomery has
caused political ties to be broken,
as he was elected to Sophomore Class
Secretary in last Spring’s elections.

Montgomery is a member of the
Student Service Society, a former
member of the Ring-tum Phi staff, a
Dean’s List student, and was a mem-
ber of the varsity wrestling team
last year.

From Richmond, Montgomery had
an overall grade-point ratio of 2.4
for last year.

John Mullin is a KA sophomore
from Atlanta. He is an LF.C. repre-
sentative, a former member of the
Ring-tum Phi staff, a member of
the Mongolian Minks, and is a fra-
ternity officer.

John Refo, a Sigma Chi Sopho-
more, is a member of the Assimila-
tion Committee, a member of the
Graham-Lee Society, and is on the
Honor Roll. He is from Norfolk,
and had a 2.66 average last year.

A Birmingham, Ala. sophomore,
Danny Markstein, is the new mem-
ber from ZBT. He is vice president

(Continued on page 4)

 

Alumni Association
Is Re-Activating
Funds Campaign

The Alumni Fund Council of
Washington and Lee University’s
Alumni Association has granted per-
mission for initial planning of the
re-activation of the association’s
drive for funds.

Meeting during the university’s
annual homecoming weekend, the
eight-man council voted to begin im-
mediate organization of the drive.
Actual solicitation from some 7,000
of Washington and Lee’s 10,000
alumni will not begin until after
January 1, 1961.

The re-activated campaign will be
conducted among those alumni who
are not still obligated to Washington
and Lee’s nearly completed capital
funds drive. The campaign will be
handled through class agents and
agents for certain regions throughout
the country.

The Alumni Association’s annual
fund drive has been merged with
Washington and Lee’s two-million
capital funds campaign for the past
two years. The money from the uni-
versity’s drive will be used for new
facilities in science and journalism.

Approximately $113,681 was col-
lected by the Alumni Association in
1958-58—the last year of a full-scale
alumni drive.

Last year, alumni officials received
$21,562 aside from the capital funds
campaign, according to William C.
Washburn, Alumni secretary.

In other activities during the
homecoming weekend, the Alumni
Board of Trustees, the governing
body of the organization named Dr.
Fitzgerald Flournoy, professor of
English at Washington and Lee, as
faculty representative in the edi-
torial board of the quarterly Alumni
Magazine. Rodney Cook of Atlanta,
Ga., will represent the alumni trus-
tees on the magazine’s board.

More than 350 alumni and guests
turned out for the week-end’s ac-
| tivities which were marred by rain
' Saturday.

 
 

 

 

Page 2

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

Che Ring-tum Phi

Friday Edition

Member of Virginia Intercollegiate Press Association

 

Let’s Be

Specific

“The difference between coarse and refined abuse
is the difference between being bruised by a club and
wounded by a poison arrow. ”

—Dr. Samuel Johnson

Physical abuse is not justifiable at Washington and Lee,
secretly or otherwise. If the abuse is “refined”? in honorary
induction rites it is still violating university regulations as es-
tablished by the Board of Trustees and radified by the Admin-
istrative Committee of the Faculty.

In a special session of the Executive Committee last year

the following was adopted:

“The Executive Committee of the Student Body requests |

that the Administrative Committee of the Faculty and the uni-
versity re-afirm and re-interpret the abolition of physical haz-
ing in the fraternities to cover all campus organizations.”
Perhaps it is wrong to assume that an organization must jus-
tify its existence, but justify its abusive practices—it cannot.
For this reason the societies or fraternities fall subject to
university restriction and should be dealt with accordingly.

 

Secret Societies, Vann’s Topic;
Is Justification Necessary?

By JIM VANN
Friday Columnist

With the fall initiations into the
various “secret societies” there has
arisen here on the
campus, editorially
speaking at any
rate, quite a flurry
in regard to the
status of these
clubs. In one ar-
ticle the societies
were strongly re-
buked for viola-
tions of the Uni-
versity regulations
and asked to either
justify their exist-
ence or leave the campus. As far as
the first of these objections goes, I
feel that it is hardly necessary for
me to state my opinion. Washington
and Lee has the perfect right to de-
mand of her students anything that
she chooses as long as she makes
these demands clear to the student
body before they enter the Universi-
ty. Any group that runs afoul of the
University regulations is certainly
liable, as far, as I am concerned, to
discipline from the University.

 

But it is the second part of the
argument that I would take issue
with—the demand to the groups to
either justify their existence or leave
the campus. Why should a group of
friends have to justify its association
to anyone? Has it gotten to the
point in America where a group has
to submit a body of altruistic prin-
ciples to the public at large before
its existence is to be permitted? It
really seems nowadays that any
slight deviation from the norms of
mediocrity that society sets for it-
self immediately results in pressure
from the group to conform, ie., put
forth a body of principles that has
our approval, or get out.

Where Is Spirit of Freedom?

Where is the American spirit of
vigorous freedom? What’s all this

 

business of conformity! If men want
to get together and form a social
club of their friends as long as the
club is willing to operate within the
bounds of propriety, where does
the other element even have the right
to criticize? What is the basis upon
which they even stand in making
their complaint? This is just like the
policy that other schools have taken
in regard to making their fraternities
operate on the 100 per cent basis.
When the groups become dictated to
by outside organizations and their
membership becomes predetermined,
then the word fraternity becomes a
contradiction in terms.

Not Democracy

This is not what is meant by de-
mocracy! Entirely too many people
today have come to believe that de-
mocracy means that no one has the
right to have anything that anyone
else doesn’t have. This couldn’t be
further from the truth. A democracy
entitles each person to earn what he
can. All men are equal in that they
have equal chances but they certain-
ly are not all equal in ability and
personality. And if a group of like-
minded people want to get together
in an_ association, then there
should be no one to deny them that
right .

Sigma Is Example

Take for example the Sigma club.
Perhaps I am sticking my neck out
in using this group as an example
since I am not a member and, there-
fore, know nothing about it. But it
is a secret society and one that
seems to be surrounded with a great
deal of prestige and mystery. Why
should a group such as this of com-
patible friends be denied the right
of association or made to put forth
a bunch of principles for the world to
inspect? What’s wrong with them
simply saying that they are a sec-
ret group and being as selective and
exclusive as they choose. And if they

(Continued on page 4)

 

McLin Gives American’s View Of Oxford

 

By JON B. McLIN
Friday Columnist

(Editor’s Note: This is the first
of a series of articles to be written
by Washington and Lee graduate
McLin, Class of 1960, who is pres-
ently a Rhodes Scholar at Oxford
University in England. McLin, a
former Editor-in-Chief of the
Ring-tum Phi, plans to write a
column to be published every other
week in the Friday Edition.)

Wadham College, Oxford, Oct. 9—
The first thing to confront a fresh-
man who “comes up” to Oxford for

Brownlee Writes

 

the first time is college life. This is
a way of organizing one’s living
which is peculiar to Oxford and
Cambridge among the universities of
the world.

It is often surprising to those who
hold the University of Oxford in
great awe that the only functions
of the University here are to ar-
range lecture programs, give ex-
aminations, and bestow degrees.
Virtually everything else—and that
is quite a lot—falls within the domain
of Oxford’s 31 colleges.

Oxonian colleges are complexes of
life which really have no counter-
parts in the States. Each college is
a compact unit consisting of its own
rooms for commoners, scholars, and
fellows (or dons); its own dining
hall, or simply “hall,” as it is called
here; its own library; its own chapel;
often its own gardens; more fre-
quently its own bar; and always its
own clubroom, called the Junior
Common Room, where meetings and
discussions are held and current
magazines and newspapers of several
countries may be read.

All of these several parts are
under one roof, usually. Moreover,
the schematic arrangement of them is
very similar for all colleges, with the
buildings forming around one or
more quadrangles. Any sides which
are not enclosed by buildings are
blocked by high stone walls; some of
these have myriads of fragments of
broken glass imbedded in the tops
to prevent mischievous students’
climbing over the top.

About Rules;

Gives Other Side Of Argument

By MALCOLM BROWNLEE
Friday Columnist

Two weeks ago this column showed
how rules weaken traditions at
Washington and Lee. It argued
against placing new requirements on
students. Obviously there are many
arguments for additional rules on
campus; so this week I will try to
present the other side of the story.
This argument has the advantage of
having been begun in rhymed lines
and the disadvantage of having been
finished that way.

There’ve been many _ complaints
about our debauching and drink-
ing,

About vulgar misconduct and stu-
dent’s not thinking.

The pastimes that we are fondly en-
joying

Seem to others
highly annoying.

The townspeople of Old Lexington

Delight in our business but not in
our fun.

For this, fellow students, we should
never feel shame,

For we are not the ones who're
subject to blame.

We are babes in this land of free
living and thought.

Who can expect us to act as we
ought?

The faculty with competent, elder
insight

Has never made clear what’s wrong
and what’s right.

I ask you, dear friends, what one can
expect

When we have only few rules that
we can respect?

intemperate and

In viewing our codes you will

 

quickly discover

Many conditions they do not spe-
cifically cover.

Plainly our rules are so pitfully few

That we should not be asked to
know what to do.

Just look at them summed in this
three-line review:

Each student must dress in his shoes,
coat and tie.

A freshman speaks first when an
upperclassman walks by.

There’s no cheating or stealing or
telling a lie.

But the clever will find that even
in these

There are many technical intricacies.

Lines should be drawn, and more
rules should be made,

Privileges outlined and restrictions
laid.

Right conduct and wrong should be
clearly defined;

Each punishment fixed and plainly
outlined.

Adam and Eve in their garden of
bliss

Could only discern one detail amiss;

But this one thing made them ex-
ceedingly sad:

They could not distinguish the good
from the bad.

They search for the knowledge
which the apple protects,

And to their surprise they come up
with sex.

What wonderful joys that are secret-
ly hidden

May be ours if we learn what’s dis-
tinctly forbidden.

Likes Moses, who all the command-
ments did make,

We'd have power in our hands all the

(Continued on page 4)

Senator Goldwater’s Conservatism Refuted

By VIC LASSETER
Friday Columnist

In the 1960 Presidential campaign
John F. Kennedy is the candidate
of the moderate Democratic party.
Richard M. Nixon, however, is the
candidate of the radical Republican
party. No longer can Nixon charge
that the Democratic party is too “ex-
treme,” as he did on his first tele-
vision debate, or that the Demo-
cratic party is the party of “treason,”
as he did in 1952 and 1956.

Ironically enough, the party of
Nixon is the center of radical in-
fluence; the century-old Republican
charge of “socialists” will no longer
be used to label the Democratic
party; obvious hyprocisy cannot
fool the American television audi-
ences all of the time.

The center of Republican radi-
calism is Senator Barry Goldwater
from Arizona, who looks more like a
middle-class department store owner

 

than a senator. Goldwater’s party,
however, is more radical than any
Democratic New Deal legislation,
which was only progressive at best.

In a recent editorial (“Who’s A
Conservative,” October 10, 1960) The
New Republic pointed out very suc-
cintly that Barry Goldwater is not a
conservative (generally defined as
“one who favors the conservation
of existing institutions and forms of
government”), but rather a radical
(generally defined as “one who ad-
vocates sweeping changes in laws and
methods of government”).

A good look at Goldwater’s best-
seller, Conscience of a Conservative,
will show the validity of the New
Republic’s pertinent observations.
Domestically, Goldwater advocates
sweeping changes which will take
the U.S. back to its pre-Teddy
Roosevelt days; Goldwater will strip
the Federal government of all func-

 

tions not expressly given to it by

the Constitution; Goldwater will
abolish Social Security, which he
describes as a harsh restriction upon
individual enterprise, and even more
radical, Goldwater will abolish pro-
gressive taxation.

Goldwater’s justification for the
abolition of progressive taxation is
an example of the naivite, self-
righteousness, chauvinism, and plain
ignorance which have helped make
Goldwater’s book a best-seller. Since
the average American, reasons
Goldwater, pays 32 per cent of his
income in taxes to the federal gov-
ernment, one-third of this man’s
income is confiscated, this man is
spending one-third of his time work-
ing for the federal government, and,
alas, the nation is already one-third
socialized. No true conservative
could believe this nonsense, for
author Goldwater omits the fact that
most of this tax money is indirectly

 

returned to the taxpayer through

indirect government services, such
as through our court system, for
example.

Senator Goldwater, moreover, pur-
posefully omits the fact that over
one-half of this tax goes for de-
fense spending, and if there is one
form of federal spending pleasing
to Goldwater, it is defense spending.
Goldwater, moreover, would increase
federal spending and taxation to
provide for an American offensive
against the Communist bloc of na-
tions.

Goldwater’s foreign policy is no
less radical than his domestic policy;
Goldwater would refuse to recog-
nize Communist governments; he
would break off all negotiations with
them (for the present) and, in direct
contradiction to international law
and common morality, would en-
courage internal revolt in Commun-
ist nations. The United Nations,

(Continued on page 4)

 

 

CY 77 Fink I cAN

UNDERSTAND YOUR
FEAR OF LIBRARIES,

“LIBRARY FEVER” IS SIMILAR TO
OTHER MENTAL DISTURBANCES...
YOU FEAR THE LIBRARY ROOMS
BECAUSE THEY ARE STRANGE
TO YOU,, YOU ARE OUT OF PLACE...

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

4-//

WHICH WE FEEL / FEEL OUT OF
OUT OF PLACE X PLACE, CHARLIE

 
    

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The reason that such practices are
necessary is that all colleges lock
their gates at midnight, and—theoret-
ically—students cannot get in after
this hour without paying a fine.
In practice, each college has one
or more well-known places where
entry can be gained at any hour.

It is an interesting commentary
on college discipline that when one
of these “escape hatches” was acci-
dentally blocked recently by a
grounds-keeper who was unfamiliar
wih the traditions of Oxford, the
Dean of the college immediately
ordered the hole re-opened. He did
not, however, let it be known that
this had been called to his attention.

Such rules, even though they are
largely ignored, are inconsistent with
the general tenor of student free-
dom, which is considerable. Colleges
frequently have their own bars, and
college butteries frequently sell to
the students the liquor which they
may, if they wish, use in their rooms.

Even more liberal, by W&L stand-
ards, is the permission to admit
women guests to rooms in college,
provided they are out by 10 p.m.

If the American who comes to Ox-
ford is pleased by the leniency of
the rules, he will not be happy about
the material comforts and conven-
iences which are available. Bath-
rooms are frequently outdoors, and
even when indoors they are often
unheated. Where hot water is far
away, the Oxonian receives, on
awakening, one bowl of water in

 

which he is to wash, shave, and
brush his teeth.

Much can be done, however to-
wards overcoming material “hard-
ships” if one has a sympathetic un-
derstanding, and knowing scout. The
scout, or manservant, is assigned to
4-6 students and for them renders
the following services (if he is com-
petent): awakes you for breakfast;
washes the dishes, cleans the room
and makes the bed; procures for
you such items as bicycles and
gowns, which can be bought eco-
nomically second-hand; offers help-
ful advice to those unfamiliar with
English ways.

The importance of such advice is
well-illustrated by a custom called
the “sconce,” which is practiced in
most college dining halls. According
to this tradition, if a student comes
to dinner without a tie, mentions
religion or a girl’s name during he
course of the meal, smokes after din-
ner, or commits any breach of social
etiquette or gentlemanly conduct he
may be challenged to drink in three
minutes a large quantity of ale (the
quantity varies, but averages around
2 1/2 pints). If he succeeds he chal-
lenges his challenger; this continues
until one of the two loses, and the
loser pays for the ale. In case of
dispute, appeal may be made to the
High Table, but such appeal must
be made in grammatical Greek,
Latin, or Hebrew. This often proves
embarrassing to appellant and High
Table alike.

Dr. Moger, History Prof,
Discusses En glish Systems

By ALLEN W. MOGER
Professor of History

My six weeks spent last summer observing the teaching and
methods of instruction at the University of London was a
stimulating and enlightening experience. I also visited the
great universities at Oxford and Cambridge where methods

are similar to those in London.

To me, observing and participating
in the work of a tutorial group was
the most valuable. This group is di-
rected and led by a faculty member
who is a specialist in his field, and
it is in this group that the individ-
ual student’s work is pretty thor-
oughly supervised by the tutor in
charge. Each group is small. Stu-
dents present papers and participate
in the discussion of each paper pre-
sented. Also private conferences
with the tutor provide direction and
supervision of the work of each stu-
dent as he “reads” in his major sub-
ject for a degree.

A much smaller proportion of the
population goes to college in Eng-
land than in the United States, and
the students are better prepared,
more mature and self-reliant when
they start. This selection of the best
prospects seems almost demanded
by the methods and requirements
which the students must meet.

A student at Eton told me, “I
doubt if I can get into a college in
England. I think I shall go to college
in the States like my brother did.”
However, college students are now
selected on a much more democratic
basis than they used to be.

Social position and wealth count
for less, and many able students
without much economic means now
get into the great universities of Eng-
land. However, the fact remains that
only between ninety and a hundred
thousand out of a population of about
52,000,000 attend college in England.

In America we have 4,000,000 col-
lege students from a population of
175,000,000. Perhaps too few go to
college in England and too many in
America, but if I had to choose be-
tween the two in the modern world
I would choose the American policy
of greater opportunity. England’s
college attendance has greatly in-
creased since the war.

While a student in an English uni-
versity has much freedom in theory,
there are restrictions. He must be
in his quarters before twelve. At
Cambridge he must wear his aca-
demic robe when he goes down town

*

 

in the evening or when he calls on
his tutor or professor for a con-
ference. Requirements of this kind
vary, but in general a student must
conduct himself honorably and by
his work and habits make himself a
credit to the school. Failure to meas-
ure up may cause him to be asked
to make way for someone more
worthy.

A summer spent in the great city
of London provides many fabulous
opportunities for an American. As a
teacher of British history I visited
dozens of places and_ institutions
which I had read and talked about
for years. Cathedrals, castles, mu-
seums, eighteenth century country
estates, the homes of Dr. Johnson,
Keats, and many other prominent
figures are there.

Many enjoyable trips to famous
places were arranged and conducted
as a part of the summer course at
the University of London. Trips to
some places such as Oxford, Cam-
bridge, Windsor Castle, and Hamp-
ton Court were made more mean-
ingful and enjoyable by a lecture
the night before on the history and
architecture of the place to be visited.
And guides arranged for by the
University were better informed than
the usual tourist guide.

Independently, one can see many
excellent plays on the London stage
at prices much below those in New
York. Also among my very en-
joyable experiences were trips to
Canterbury, to the English Lake
Country made famous by Words-
worth, to Edinburgh and its “Royal
Mile” extending from Edinburgh
Castle to Holy Rood Palace, to other
parts of Scotland, and to Chester
and York.

Such a summer in England is
available to students who have fin-
ished at least two years of college
work in America,

I spend ten delightful days in
Paris and vicinity with Professor
Francis Drake, and three days in
Rome before flying to London. I
recommend such a summer to any
interested and inquiring student.

 

Notices

Students are requested not to
bring their cars on the campus on
Saturday, Oct. 22, due to Parents’
Weekend, All available parking
space must be left for the parents
on that day.

There will be a meeting of the
Forensic Union next Monday at
7:15 p.m. The topic this week is
“Resolved that American Colleges
Should Be Subsidized in Athletics.”
All interested students are invited
to attend.

 

There will be a meeting of the
Lexington Grotto of the National
Speleological Society tonight at 8
p.m. in the Student Union.

 

Che Ring-tum Phi
Friday Edition

The Ring-tum Phi is published Tues-
day and Friday during the college year.
It is printed a, the Journalism Labor-
etery Press, ashington and Lee Uni-
versity. The mailing address is Box
899, Lexington, Va,

Entered ag second class matter Sep-
tember 20, 1946 at the Post Office, Lex-
ington, Va., under the act of March

8, ;

National Advertising Representative:
The National Advertisers Service, Inc.,
420 Madison Ave., New York, N.Y.

  
  

Editor-in-Chief................ Nathan Simpson
Business Manager.............. Huntley Biggs
Editorial Board
Managing Editor................ George Honts
Assistant Managing Editor....................
usin eeseiioee cn. Roy Goodwin
POW WAP iscccessississsscersisas Andy Nea
Sports Editor..... Bill Outman
Associate Editor Tom Rains

Copy Editor Tom Jordan
Photography Editor..Clarence Renshaw

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

esi

 
 

 

THE RING-TUM PHI

Page 3

 

 

 

Will Randolph-Macon be stopped or be able to stop W&L’s George Cruger, Barton Dick, Bill Wills, and Tommy

Goodwin!

—Photo by Borthwick

 

Bootmen Fall To Duke, 3-0,
Meet Carolina Wednesday

A complacent Washington and Lee
varsity squad, resting on the laurels
of its first two wins of the 1960
season, succumbed to an aggressive

Duke team at Durham, N. C., last
Tuesday.
The W&L booters lacked the

drive which had been character-
istic of their previous matches.
The play for the Generals was
sluggish both offensively and de-
fensively. The offensive could never
sustain an attack on the Blue Devil’s
goal and the defense could never
get off their heels to clear the ball
to the forward line. Misjudged kicks
and poorly executed pass patterns
typified the style of soccer played
by the W&L club.

Duke opened the scoring on a
penalty kick with nine minutes
gone in the first period. Washing-
ton and Lee threatened to tie the
game but failed to take full ad-
vantage of the opposing team’s mis-
takes. The half ended with the score
still one to nothing. Early in the
third period, a failure in teamwork
on the part of W&L accounted for
another Blue Devil tally. A pressured

 

 

BROWN’S
CLEANING
WORKS
We call for

and deliver
HO 3-2013 14 Randolph St.

 

 

 

Lexington
Laundro Matic

209 S. Main
*

HAND IRONED
SHIRTS

Dry Cleaning

Service

for your convenience

 

 

Congratulations

you're still alive
but,
how safe are your tires?

We are tire specialists
Let us inspect your tires
regularly
General Tires

Kraft System Recapping

SPENCER GENERAL
TIRE CO.

Route 60 East

attack on the Duke goal by the
Blue and White ended abruptly
when the Generals’ center-forward
missed a beautiful scoring opportuni-
ty on an indirect kick. The Duke
eleven scored again in the fourth
period to make the final score, 3-0.
The only bright light on this rath-
er dismal day was the exceptionally
fine play of Clark Valentiner who, as
W&L’s goalie, made twenty-five
saves. Also, with this defeat, comes

 

the guarantee form Coach Lyles and
the varsity soccer team that the
rest of opposition this fall will not
find the goin so easy.

The Generals get a chance to re-
deem themselves when they meet
North Carolina next Wednesday in
a home contest. The Tarheels have
always proved to be a formidable
opponent, but this year it will take
more than just a “big-name uni-
versity to defeat our eleven angry

(Continued on page 4)

 

&L Aim Saturday:

By JOHN ALLGOOD

After Washington and Lee rallied
to tie Randolph-Macon, 33-33, in a
wild mele last year, the Yellow
Jackets promised their fans a sure
victory over W&L this year.

But Coach Lee McLaughlin and his
Five-Star Generals have different
ideas.

The Generals go into tomorrow’s
clash with R-M at Ashland with a
three-game win streak and have
no intentions of letting the Jackets
snap that victory string.

After three games W&L has only
one trouble spot—pass defense. Two
of the three touchdowns against the
Generals have come on passes and
the other TD was set up by a pass.

* The Generals have actually given

up less yardage (241-249) in the air
than on the ground. But the passing
gains have come on the crucial plays
and have given the Generals some
anxious moments.

Probably the main reason that the
Generals’ loose pass defense hasn’t
hurt them to a large extent is that
none of their first three opponents—
Centre, Dickinson, and F&M—had
a top notch passer.

But Randolph-Macon does not
fall into the lack-of-a-good-passer
category.

 

Lereorseseeeseeeeeesrsedy
¢ ROBERT E. LEE ¢
: BARBERSHOP *
* David M. Moore ;
- P fet ”
* roprietor *
Peteeedeebebtebtbdttobtbdge

 

 

Hamric and Sheridan
JEWELERS
Watch and Jewelry Repair
Hand Engraving and Class Rings
HO 3-2022

 

 

 

Expert Motor Work

FOREIGN CARS AND STUDEBAKER LARKS
OUR SPECIALTY

MAIN STREET MOBIL STATION

Open 8:00 a.m.—8:00 p.m.

 

 

TETLOW
TV Service

221 S. Main HO 3-2841

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Open a convenient student Checking account
TODAY

at

Rockbridge National Bank

Member Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

all the time. If you use

with ‘V
neater longer.

iTS CrEAR SY
iS CLEAN !

aseline’ Hair Tonic.

    

do girls get in your hair?

This is the kind of problem ‘Vaseline’ Hair Tonic creates
water with your hair tonie (as
most men do) count on ‘Vaseline’ Hair Tonic to replace
the oil that water removes. Use all the water you want
Your hair looks great, stays
And just a little does a lot!

« VASELINE HAIR TONIC

“VASELINE' IS A REGISTERED TRADEMARK OF CHESEBROUGH-POND’S INC

MOTT:

 

The Yellow Jackets have a very
capable passer, Jim Gravett, and
two fine receivers, ends LeRoy
Davenport and Walt Pendley, who
will give the Generals’ pass defense
its toughest challenge of the young
season.

R-M threw only two passes (both
were intercepted) in their 14-6 loss
to Western Maryland last week. But
Coach McLaughlin is quick to point
out that the Yellow Jackets are a
passing team.

“We're not letting Randolph-Ma-
con’s two passes against Western
Maryland lull us into thinking we
won't be seeing any passes,” Mc-
Laughlin said.

McLaughlin said that Randolph-
Macon will be “the toughest op-
ponent we’ve met so far” and has
greater depth than any team W&L
has faced this season.

 

4th Straight Victory

Last Saturday Coach McLaughlin
unleashed the full fury of W&L’s
Go-T and Spread offensives against
helpless Franklin and Marshall.

The Generals ground out 430 yards
on the ground and added another 100
yards in the air as they crushed
the Diplomats, 38-8.

Despite the aweing running and
kicking show put on by Doug Mar-
tin, the Five-Star Generals’ 159-
pound junior fullback, McLaughlin
called the W&L success a “real
team victory.” “But didn’t Doug
have a good day!” he added quickly.

Martin had a good day indeed.
He had his biggest day in his W&L
career.

The pint-sized fullback, who gives
the Generals breakaway potential
as a position where they’ve never
had it before, picked up 176 yards

(Continued on page 4)

 

 

 

   

 

On Comput seco

(Author of “I Was a Teen-a
Loves of Dobie

on Dwarf” ,““The Many
Gillis”, etc.)

   

 

  

*“HOME SWEET HOMECOMING”

A great number of people have been asking me lately, “What
is Homecoming?” but I have been so busy trying to find out
why my new sports car leaks that I haven’t had time to answer.
I am now pleased to report that I finally discovered why my
sports car leaks—I have been driving it upside down—and so
I am ready today to turn my attention to Homecoming.
Let’s begin with definitions. Homecoming is a weekend when
old grads return to their alma maters to watch a football game,
visit old classrooms and dormitories and inspect each other’s

bald spots.

The weekend is marked by the singing of old songs, the slap-
ping of old backs and the frequent exchange of such greetings
as “Harry, you old polecat!” or “Harry, you old porcupine!”

or “Harry, you old rooster!” or

“Harry, you old wombat!”

As you can see, all old grads are named Harry.

It is not just old grads who behave with such liveliness during
Homecoming; the faculty also comports itself with unaccus-
tomed animation. Teachers laugh and smile and pound backs
and keep shouting “Harry, you old Airedale!” This unscholarly
behavior is carried on in the hope that old grads, in a transport
of bonhomie will endow a new geology building.

The old grads, however, are seldom seduced. By game time
on Saturday their backs are so sore, their eyeballs so eroded,
their extremities so frayed, that it is impossible to get a kind
word out of them, much less a new geology building.

\ lawy ye al Mindi t

   

Even the football game does not improve their tempers.
“Hmmph!” they snort as the home team completes a 101-yard
march to a touchdown. “Do you eall that football? Why, back
in my day, they’d have been over on the first down! By
George, football was football in those days—not this namby-
pamby girls’ game that passes for football today! Take a look
at that bench—50 substitutes sitting there. Why, in my day,
there were 11 men on a team and that was it. When you broke
a leg, they slapped a piece of tape on it and you went right back

in. Why, I remember the big game against State.

Harry Siga-

foos, our star quarterback, was killed in the third quarter. I

mean, he was pronounced dead.

But did that stop old Harry?

Not on your tintype! Back in he went and kicked the winning
drop kick in the last four seconds of play, dead as he was. Back
in my day, they played football, by George!”

Everything, say the old grads, was better back in their day —

everything except one.

Even the most unreconstructed of the

old grads has to admit that back in his day they never had a
smoke like Marlboro—never a cigarette with such a lot to like
—never a filter so easy drawing, a flavor so mild yet hearty, so
abundant, so bountiful—never a choice of flip-top box or soft

pack.

So old grads, young grads, and undergrads, why don’t you

settle back and have a full-flavored smoke?
filtered cigarette with the unfiltered taste,

Try Marlboro, the
and Homecoming

will be a happy occasion and the sun will shine and the air will
be filled with the murmur of wings and no man’s hand will be

raised against you.

*

*

© 1960 Max Shulman
*

At Homecoming time—or any time—try Marlboro’s unfil-
tered companion cigarette—mild, flavorful Philip Morris...
Regular size or king size Commander—a brand new and happy
experience insmoking! Havea Commander—welcomeaboard!
 

Page 4

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

Conservatism Is Refuted

(Continued from page 2)
moreover, would be used only as
an instrument of U.S. foreign policy.
In short, Mr. Goldwater, who calls
himself a “conservative,” would de-
stroy all of the machinery for world-
peace which has been constructed
since Wilson’s abortive League of
Nations.

The logical consequences of such
a foreign policy are disgusting, un-
American, and frightening. Gold-
water makes few attempts to cover
up his bellicosity, chauvinistic at-
titude; he claims that America must
not compete with the Communists,
America must defeat the Commun-
ists, by war if necessary. Goldwater
admits that his brand of foreign
policy “runs the risk of war and
holds forth the promise of victory.”
For Americans who cherish their

W&L Seeks
4th Victory

(Continued from page 3)

 

in 13 carries—an average of 12.9
yards a carry. He scored two of
the Generals five touchdowns on
runs of 26 and 85 yards and added
quick kicks of 61 and 54 yards for
extra flavor.

Another standout was junior end
Ned Hobbs. Hobbs blocked Terry
Gebhard’s punt on the Diplomat
20, picked up the loose football on
the two, and stepped into the end-
zone for the Generals’ fourth touch-
down.

Although the offense led by Mar-
tin, Bob Funkhouser, Tommy Keesee,
and Steve Suttle, received most of
the praise, the iron defense, anchored
by Barton Dick, Terry Fohs, and
Tommy Goodwin, completely con-
tained F&M’s highly-rated ground
express, John Tomasko.

The Diplomats managed to
punch out only 78 yards on the
ground against W&L’s stonewall
defense, and Tomasko accounted
for more than half of that 78-yard
total with a 46-yard run just be-
fore the half.

Only after the Diplomats took to
the air, did they manage to score or
gain any appreciable amount of
yardage.

 

 

STANLEY WARNER

STATE

LEXINGTON, VA.

 

 

LASTS TIMES SATURDAY

COLOR By DELUXE

 

 

SUN.-MON.-TUES.

ie

9 [LAUGHTON

 
 
   

 

 

 

HICKMAN’S ESSO

South Main Street
HO 3-2024

 

 

nn a

, 35 S. Main Street

, Phone HO 3-4121

| «= THE HOME OF QUALITY
7

 

 

iv

ont Pte

 

 

THE DUTCH INN
For Reservation Call
MRS. KATHERINE ADAMS
HO 3-3433

 

a fy
>
|  Waggy’s Jewelers

 

 

 

 

eee eedededetebbtobdettote

ote

% NEW TOWN INN ¢
* Short Orders—Lunches *

* Catering to Students

Peete eteteetee ete

lives, but their freedom more, the
choice cannot be difficult.” Mr. Gold-
water admirably enough, isn’t afraid
of a few little old H-Bombs.

Thus, the policies of Barry Gold-
water, as seen in The Conscience of a
Conservative, are indications of the
radicalism in the extreme right-
wing of the Republican party. Sen-
ator Goldwater, of course, controls

and therefore exerts a considerable
influence upon Richard M. Nixon
(but then, who doesn’t?).

Southern conseravtive Democrats
and Republican conservatives should
think twice before voting Republi-
can this year. The old notion of
“creeping socialism” in the Demo-
cratic party has been dispelled. The
Republican policy makers now open-

illogical, and openly bellicose.

The only true comment on the
jacket of Goldwater’s book is from
Pravda: “A dangerous, unwise af-
fo.

 

SW MSEC Selects Members

(Continued from page 1)
of his class, on the Dean’s List, a
member of the Calyx staff, and was
on the soccer team last year.

Also from Birmingham is Frank
Young, a Phi Delt sophomore. He
is a member of the Glee Club, a
fraternity officer, and had a grade
point ratio of 1.94.

Lanny Butler, SAE, is from Mem-
phis, Tenn. He was a member of
the freshman football team last year,
a Dean’s List student, and a member
of the Ring-tum Phi staff. His grade
point ratio was 2.03 last year.

Members of the committee this
year are juniors Bob Doenges, Bill
Ide, Harry Foltz, Gerry Dattel and
Rosie Page. Senior
Carter Fox, Dave Lefkowitz,
MeWilliams, Henry Harrell, and Ned
Olds.

Bootmen Meet UNC

(Continued from page 3)
men. Coach Joe Lyles also feels that
it just might be nice to the settle
the score with the Tarheels; for last
year we lost to them, 5-2.

epwnric

SUN.-MON.-TUES.

 

 

 
   

 

HARD ARUGER SNE BIER WEE PRES

Sr SES 1. 4 ALN WHTLE ESE PHN ie
DAvO DEUTSCH JOSEP LOSEY= BEM BARDKAM ang MILLARD LAMPELL

the conservative block of his party |

members are,@
Bill | @

 

 

 

Mock Trial Set
(Continued from page 1)

Parsons, Mock Trial chairman, that
Hess had been bodily thrown out of
the Inn by the proprietor, Bob
Chipply for being drunk and dis-
orderly. It has also been reported
that Hess’ father, David Hess, re-
ceived a ransom note about his son
earlier.

The Trial date has been tentatively
set for Nov. 20, at 3 p.m.

| Participants in the courtroom
drama will be Hugo Hoogenboom,
prosecuting attorney and Bob Mc-
Guire, attorney for the defense.
Charles V. Laughlin, procedure pro-
fessor, will preside.

i “The trial, which will held in the
| moot court of Tucker Hall is an open
| trial and any member of the student
| body may attend,” Parsons said. He

 

ly rely on the advice and support | also added that any undergraduate! Just how much noise should a gentle-
of a man whose ideas are radical,| wishing to serve on the jury should|

i contact him.
Schrag Exhibition

(Continued from page 1)

in which most of the picture is de-
voted to flowers, trees, mountains,
and sky. This juxtaposition of im-
ages is also seen in his “Waves of
Love and of the Sea.” Most of his
former work and development are
culminated in the “strength and con-
fidence” of the powerful ‘“Mont-
serrat.”

The next exhibition of modern
painting to be exhibited in duPont
Hall will consist of two one-man
shows. Maurice Bonds and Theresa
Pollack are co-directors of the
Richmond School of Art. Their
paintings will be here in about two
weeks. Mr. Bonds is a former pupil
of Dr. Junkin, the head of the
W&L Department of Fine Arts.

TEXACO
Super Service Station
Lexington, Virginia
Corner Main and Nelson
Coeeesesecesesooeecesee

 

 

 

 

LEXINGTON
HARDWARE
COMPANY

Phone HO 3-2242

 

 

 

Brownlee Writes

(Continued from page 2)
commandments to break.

The Master, revealing our Father
above,

Reduced all the old laws to one old
one, love.

All his disciples in striving to try it

| Have only one problem; that’s how
to apply it.

The golden rule, we agree, is some-
thing terrific,

But we are week and need rules
more specific.

“We're only one rule,” said Robert
E. Lee,

| “And that’s that each man a gentle- |
man be.”

From this we conclude that the rea-
son for sin is

That he did not prescribe what a

| gentleman is.

 

;__man make?

| How many desserts can he lawfully

| take?

Is a gentleman sober like a gentle-

| man high?

| Can a gentleman tell just a little
white lie?

Can he lie to his date but not to
the dean,

| And can he be gross when he’s not
publicly seen—

Parents’ Weekend Set

(Continued from page 1)

Washington and Lee’s parents’
program has won two first-place na-
tional awards from the American
Alumni Council. In 1955 the over-
all program was judged the best in
the nation, and in 1957 the “Wash-
ington and Lee Notes” newsletter for
parents was a blue-ribbon winner.

 

It’s Good usiness
To Do usiness
with IERER’S

PHARMACY

 

| Without danger

About Rules

By many, that is, but only a few?

How gross can he be and come
piously through

To hold his head high wherever he
goes?

With never a care whether anyone
knows?

How much hell can a gentleman
raise?

How many C’s are worth a gentle-
man’s A’s?

We are gentlemen born; we are
gentlemen bred,

But just how far can a gentleman
go

of landing upon
social pro?

How can he know how far we should
go?

We've no elders to lead us and no
laws that will guide us.

No restrictions impede us; so no fun
is denied us.

What we need is more rules.

“More rules?” Yes, more rules.

Prolific, specific, significant rules;

Refined and declined, magnificent
rules;

Rules of right conduct and
of right thought

So that everyone here will act and
think as he ought,

Rules that will outline each thing
we should do,

And cover each detail of life through
and through.

rules

 

CALL BY NUMBER
and Save Time

LEXINGTON
TELEPHONE CO. @

—

sbeteteteceleteteteteoeofetototobobobobebotedetoe
PEE eee ST HEHE eeE

fe ee nfe she she she agente

se oe

Melero lerferderferferherierte

%
* R.L. Hess and Bro.
= JEWELERS z
5 Lexington, Virginia :
ps HO 3-2833 -
#

%
eho rbe nde oer nde ne rle rhe rhe renee entero rere he ohertorts

Vann On Secret Societies
(Continued from page 2)

want to make branding as a criterion
for membership, then why shouldn’t
they be permitted to do so? No one
has forced anybody to join the group
and so the group, it would seem to
me, has the perfect right to set any
criteria it chooses for membership.

Everyone May Decline

Every person invited certainly has
the right to decline. This group has
never made any attempt to clothe
itself in any false principles—indeed,
I never even knew it existed until
I noticed several of my friends wear-
ing rings with the letter on them.
The point is simply that they have
never violated any democratic prin-
ciples; and I don’t think that it’s
right to deny groups of people the
right to get together and form clubs.

There is too much of a tendency
in America, and especially here at
W&L to try to weld all people onto
one common level. People are not all
alike and as long as they are all
given the right to better themselves
to the limit of their ability then the
fundamental rights of democracy are
being maintained.

 

TOLLEY’S PHARMACY

Prescriptions Filled
Immediately

PURCHASE DRUGS
HO 3-2211

 

 

elon se rhe rhe nde tere ole oe ole ole she ole rhe ndeterie ole oheofente |”

 

*Dodge and Dodge Dart
and Lancer
America’s First Fine
ECONOMY CAR
*

Rockbridge Motor Co.
INC.

Phone HObart 3-3146

 

 

 

Wayland’s Drug Store

Prescriptions, Russell Stover
Candies

Next to Rockbridge Bank

 

 

 

 

 

COSHH OOOSSCESOOSOSOOOHOOOHOOOTHOOOOOOOOOOOOOOSE
FOR ROOM RESERVATIONS—CALL HO 3-2151

LEXINGTON
Large Rooms—U. S. 11 By-Pass South
Free TV—Phones—Continental Breakfast
Only Motel in corporate limits of Lexington
©0000 SS0OOSOOOOOOOHLHOO09800COO8OCOOCOOOO0OOOEEE

MOTEL

 

 

 

 

.

GOOSSSSSS9 9ST OO OOS OSINTS
%

 

Highway 60 East

 

 

* :
: Baker :
% %
: Ford Sales
: :
% %
% %
; ‘
: BETTER DEALS

%
: CLEARANCE :
: of lot for 1961 Models ’

4
bs ’
* NEW AND ;
; USED CARS ;
: ;
te ;
% *
| te 2

Pat higt Mat Mat Mat Mat Mt gt Mat Mat Mat Pa Mgt Met Ma

eee oe oe oe oe afe whe fe of feof of oe oe ae ofe ofe ae age feos

Se

 

 

DIXON’S

ESSO SERVICE CENTER
ROUTE 60 EAST IN LEXINGTON

Across from the White Top Resturant
HO 3-4214

Wash, Grease, Lube, Road Service

Charge Accounts Welcome

SOHOHOHSSSHSHSHSHOHSSEHSSSOHSSSSSSHHHHTHHHHHSSSOHETSSSESEE

S®@escoceecesereeeoeeooce see?

 

 

Hi

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ea

    

PARAMOUNT
i

 

 

 

 

 

 

ta

sr 6

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ae

6 ~s

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

        

 

GUTEei

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

FORMAL WEAR

 

and
Complete Formal Accessories

The
COLLEGE TOWN

 

Shop

 

 

 

y=

 

 

Au

THE COLLEGE INN

The Best Food in Town

American and Italian

Catering to the Students, Faculty,
and Towns People

OPEN SUNDAYS

7

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   

Tried
Regular

Filter
Cigarettes?

When your taste tells you
it's time for a change,
remember: Only Kool—
no regular filter cigarette,

 

©1960, BROWN & WILLIAMSON TOBACCO

 

Tried
Other

Menthol
Cigarettes?

no other menthol cigarette—
gives you real Menthol Magic!

YOU FEEL A
NEW SMOOTHNESS
DEEP IN YOUR THROAT!

\

CORPORATION ings

 

ay

NOW! Come Up...All The Way Up
to the MENTHOL MAGIC

of KOOL!

  
 
 
      

ALSO
AVAILABLE
WITHOUT
FILTER

ities

THE MARK OF QUALITY IN TOBACCO PRODUCTS

 

 
 

TUESDAY
Edition

Che KRing-tum Phi

Washington and Lee Semi-Weekly Newspaper

TUESDAY
Edition

 

Volume LXI

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA, OCTOBER 18, 1960

Number 10

 

Ed Croft, John Paul Gain F

Bipartisan Representation Shown
In Results of Monday Elections

Last night, Oct. 17, Ed Croft and John Paul were elected
Executice Committeemen from the freshman academic and
law classes. Croft, the University Party candidate for Freshman
EC, defeated Bill Noell by a plurality of 68 votes. John Paul
defeated Mal Lassman for the EC post from the freshman law

class.

Croft is a KA pledge from Atlanta,*

Georgia, where he attended the
Westminster Schools. At Westmin-
ster, he was the President of his
Junior Class; was outstanding in
football, wrestling, and track; and
was the President of the Westmin-
ster Honor Council in his Senior
year.

Croft has already begun to show
his potential and to prove that he
definitely possesses the qualities
of leadership and competence
which are requisite for the posi-
tion of Executive Committeeman.
He is the President of his KA
Pledge Class and is playing Fresh-
man football.

Ed Croft said that he was honored
by his election to this important po-
sition and that he would strive to
live up to the W&L tradition and
the faith entrusted to him by his
classmates.

An SAE freshman, A. J. Barranco,
nominated Croft at the Assembly last
night. Barry Greene, a ZBT, made
the seconding speech. John Kirkley,
Phi Gam pledge president, nominat-
ed Bill Noell. Bill Cromley seconded
the nomination.

John Paul, the new Executive
Committeeman from the freshman
law class, is a Pi Kappa Phi gradu-
ate of Washington and Lee. He grad-
uated two years ago Magna Cum
Laude with honors as a physics ma-
jor.

During his undergraduate years at
Washington and Lee he was on the
Library Committee and was an of-
ficer in his fraternity. Recently he
has been writing law review com-
ments. He will also serve as the As-
sistant Defense Attorney in the Mock

 

Despite Deemphasis

The Randolph-Macon game Sat-
urday marked the first time in thir-
ty-seven years that a Washington
and Lee football team has won five
straight games. Not since 1923, when
the Generals defeated Western
Maryland, Kentucky, St. Johns,
V.P.L, and Virginia, has a similar
record been compiled

The present streak includes the
last game of the 1959 season.

Glee Club Concert Will Feature Extras

The Washington and Lee Univer-
sity Glee Club will make its first ap-
pearance at 8:30 p.m. Friday night in
Doremus Gymnasium. The occasion
is the annual Parent’s Weekend Con-
cert.

Featured in this year’s perform-
ance will be the John Graham Brass
Choir, under the direction of Mr.
Robert Stewart. The “Cappereles,”
a newly-organized freshman singing
group, will entertain at intermission.

 

Trial. Last year, John was an In-
structor in physics at the University
of Virginia. He is a member of PDP
legal fraternity.

Other freshman law elections were
held last night. Pete Dauk was chos-
en as President of the class. Alan
Caldwell is the new Vice-President
and Paul Boswell is class secretary.

Charlie Jenkins.

The academic freshman elections
were held at 7:00 p.m. in the Lee
Chapel. The meeting was presided
over by SAE Bill Buice. Assisting
him were Nathan Simpson, Jim
Vann and Kent Frazier.

 

W. and L. Debaters Attend
Public Affairs Conference

For the first time, Washington and
Lee entered a team in the Virginia
Conference on Public Affairs held at
the University of Virginia on Fri-
day, October 14. Nine members of
the debate team, along with Mr.
Willian Chaffin, Debate Director,
traveled to Charlottesville for this
Conference to discuss the question:
“What should be done to provide
adequate medical care for all Unit-
ed States citizens?”

At the conclusion of the day’s ac-
tivities Washington and Lee’s Rich-
ard McEnally had won one of five
gavels presented to the most effec-

chosen by his discussion group to
present and defend one of the two
resolutions debated on the floor of
the Legislative Assembly, and Peter
Straub had won the admiration of
the entire Conference by his skillful
use of parliamentary procedure on
the floor of the Legislative Assembly.

ing against such debate powers as
North Carolina, Davidson, Univer-
sity of Virginia, University of Rich-
mond, Randolph-Macon, and others.
In all, eleven schools were repre-
sented at Charlottesville.

Bill Buice, Whit Fitzgerald, Lon At-
kins, and George Birdsong also rep-
| resented W&L at the Conference.

 

The Glee Club this year will be
made up of more than sixty Wash-
ington and Lee undergraduates.
Dr. Stewart, Assistant Professor
of Fine Arts, is director. Don Pard-
ington, a Phi Gam senior, is presi-
dent of the club, and Tom Ride-
out and Dave Spencer are librari-
ans.

| Saturday night’s concert will be

highlighted by three solo perform-
ances. Sam Channell will sing the

 

 

Guggenheim Loan Popular Exhibit

Paintings from the John Simon
Guggenheim collection are now be-
ing shown in the West Wing of the
Letitia Pate Evans Dining Hall. As
usual, the paintings exhibited in this
wing are of a modern nature. There
are representative works of such
artists as Harry Bertoia, Cesar Dom-
ela, Albert Gleizes, Fernand Leger,
Jean Metzinger, and Laszlo Moholy-
Nagy.

One of the more widely known
masterpieces is Mare Chagall’s
“Village Street.” Chagall was
born in Vitebsk, Russia. His father
was a worker in a fish shop and
Mare was one of ten childen. Af-
ter studying art for two years in
Petrograd, Chagall was sent to
Paris about the time of World War
I. He has also lived in Venice,
where he won an _ International
Prize for Engraving in 1948. His
paintings show the effects of his
early environment on a_ highly
imaginative mind. His works are
characterized by a kind of lyric

poetry in color and usually con-
tain lovers, flowers, barnyard ani-
mals, and a sun or moon.

There are also two works of Vasily
Kandinsky in this collection. Kan-
dinsky’s work has had a profound
effect on contemporary painting. He
is the originator of non-objective
painting.

Paul Klee, a late Swiss painter,
said to be “one of the most original,
inventive, and amusing artists in
modern times,” is also represented.

The “Frightened Rabbit” of Franz
Mare, a Bavarian painter, is exhibit-
ed. Dr. Junkin, the head of the W&L
Art Department, says that Heinrich
Campendonk’s “Animals and Flow-
ers” is one of his favorites in this
collection. Campendonk’s painting is
best described as “lyric cubism.”

These paintings have been loaned
to the University for a six-month
period by Mr. Harry F. Guggenheim,
the President of the Board of Trus-
tees of the Solomon R. Guggenheim
Foundation.

 

tive speakers, Otis Hess had been)

Washington and Lee was compet-|

Walter Steves, Robert Cafferata, |

The historian for the class will be*

 

 

 

  
 
 
   
 

Ed Croft

John Paul

 

Openings Dance Arrangements

Far Along Road To Completion

“The preparations for the 1960
Openings Dance Set are in full
swing,” President Pearce Hardwick
announced last night. The plans for
the Friday night cocktail party are
completed.

As announced last week, “The
Greatest Show on Earth” is the
theme of this year’s Openings.

The decorations committee, head-
ed by Pete Agelasto and John White,
has announced that the decor of the
gym will be completely different
from that of past sets. The false ceil-
ing is gone. It has been replaced by
a huge red and black crepe paper
circus tent.

The art work is on the road to
completion. On the wall opposite
the bandstand there will be a full-
length mural showing all the col-
orful events seen under a “Big
Top.” The man on the flying tra-
peze, the lion-tamer, the tight-
rope walker, and the beautiful girls
on horses will be depicted.

On either side of the bandstand
there will be murals showing at-
tractions found outside the main
tent; animals, the hilarious clowns,
and all the circus sideshow attrac-
tions. In addition, much material de-
picting other scenes of circus life has
been received from the Ringling
Brothers and Barnum & Bailey Cir-
cus, presently located at Sarasota,
Florida.

Hardwick said that all the com-
mittees were working “toward giv-
ing an accurate picture of the ex-
uberance and color of circus life

evening’s third selection, “As I Ride
By,” by John Kernochan. Wes Os-
tergren will present the famous Por-
gy and Bess ballad, “It Ain’t Nec-
essarily So,” as the fifth selection.
John Baker, a freshman member of
the Glee Club, will be featured in
the final presentation, “Landsight-
ing” by Edvard Grieg.

The Glee Club will open the even-
ing’s entertainment with the Wash-
ington and Lee Alma Mater, “Col-
lege Friendships.” This will be fol-
lowed by a selection from Bach,
“Good Fellows Be Merry.”

Following Channell’s selo, the
group will present “Widerspruch,”
by Shubert. The first half of the
performance will conclude with
“It Ain’t Necessarily So.”

“I Got Plenty O’ Nuttin’,” another
Porgy and Bess tune, will open the
second portion of the program. This
will be followed by an unusual ren-
dition of the beautiful ballad, “Come
To Me, Bend To Me!”

“IT Could Have Danced All Night,”
a popular tune from the musical
comedy My Fair Lady will follow.
The program will close with the
“Washington and Lee Swing.”

The John Graham Brass Choir

while retaining a proper atmos-
phere for the dances.”

At 4 o’clock on Friday afternoon
the Set officially opens. Beta Theta
Pi then gives a cocktail party in hon-
or of Set President Hardwick. This
party is scheduled for the Pine Room
of the Mayflower Hotel. However, if
weather permits, it will take place in
the center of Red Square directly
behind the Beta House.

In either event, TNT Trible, “The
Walking Drummer,” will enter-
tain the guests with his famous
music and earthy humor. Scotch
and Bourbon will be served at the
Beta party.

The dance band of Ray Eberle will
entertain at the evening dance. His
music is closely allied with that of
Glenn Miller’s, a fact due to Eberle’s
association with the great Miller
band of the late Thirties and early
Forties.

At the concert on Saturday after-
noon the Four Freshmen will ap-

ros

h EC Posts

| Journalism Dept. and Law School

To Sponsor Press Law Seminar

A law seminar for newspapermen who cover the courts

will be held December 3 at Washington and Lee University.
The special session is being sponsored by the University’s

Lee Memorial Foundation and the School of Law.

The seminar is designed to provide working newsmen for

| newspapers, radio and television with information about the law

 

Faculty Panels
For Weekend
Are Announced

There will be many discussions
around the campus for the benefit of
the parents who will be visiting this
weekend. Dr. E. B. Hamer is re-
sponsible for most of the arrange-
ments for the Parents’ Weekend. A
record number of more than 900
parents have already made reserva-
tions for the program.

Dr. Marion Junkin, professor of
fine arts, will conduct a program en-
titled “From Realism to Cubism” as
a special addition to the activities
of Parents’ Weekend. Dr. Junkin
will present a demonstration from
the stage of the duPont Auditorium
at 8 p.m. this Friday. He plans to
spend about fifteen minutes painting
a realistic sketch of a live subject,
and then turn to the more modern,
cubist style. As he paints, Dr. Junk-
in will discuss the difference in
technique as shown by his two ex-
amples.

There will be a Chemistry Semin-
ar Friday afternoon at 5 p.m. in
Howe 302. Mr. George B. Fozzard
will discuss “Electrophoresis.” There
will be a tea preceding the seminar
in Howe 311 at 4:30 p.m.

Dr. O. W. Riegel, professor of jour-
nalism, and Dr. Olinger Crenshaw,
professor of history, will discuss
“Political Campaigning—Then and
Now,” at 8 p.m. in Lee Chapel.

Dr. E. D. Myers, professor of phil-

 

pear. And, as extra attraction under

the “Big Top,” these four gentlemen |
will sing with Eberle’s band at the’

Saturday evening informal dance. |

 

 

will perform between the two |
segments of the Glee Club per-
formance. They will present ‘Mu-
sic for King Charles Il” by Math-
ew Locke, “Canzona per Sonare
No. IV” by Giovanni Gabrieli, and
the “Fanfare” from La Peri, by
Paul Ducas.

The next performance of the Glee |
Club will be at Sullins College on}
November 11.

| democrats at seven p.m. tomorrow in
| the Student Union.

| cussed, If enough interest is shown,

Faculty Gets S&U Reports,
Number of U’s Goes Up

S and U reports for this year show |
that 173 members of the Class of 1964
have received a grade of U. The re- |
maining 152 freshmen have received
an § rating. |

By comparison, this year’s fresh- |
man class shows an increase of 33)
students receiving U’s over the 141
members of the Class of 1963, wien |
received the same mark last year. |
The increase in this year’s freshman |
class, however, has been greatly af- |
fected by the new ruling which)
raised the value of the U to corre-|
spond with a grade of D, whereas it |
had only ineluded F’s and F plus’s
heretofore.

A breakdown of the report
shows 81 freshmen receiving one
U, 51 receiving two U’s, 32 re-
ceiving three U’s, eight receiving
four U’s, and one receiving five
U’s. The Class of 1963 compiled the
following statistics: 84 with one
U, 37 with two U’s, 12 with three
U's, and two with five U’s,

The purpose of the S and U reports
is primarily to call a freshman’s at-
tention to a particular subject in
which he is not doing the required
work. The grades are not registered
permanently on a student’s record.

Dean Gilliam has the following to
say concerning the S and U grades:
“The grades, whether satisfactory or
not, should be regarded as definitive
with regard to future work.”

All freshmen must see their fac-
ulty advisors as soon as possible to
receive their individual reports.

Notice

There will be a meeting of young
Plans for Senator Smather’s visit
to Lexington on Friday will be dis-

Senator Smathers will meet with
students on campus after a lunch-

osophy, and Dr. Marshall W. Fish-
wick, professor of American studies,
will discuss “Educational Perspec-
tives at Home and Abroad,” at 8
p.m. in Newcomb 8.

 

Notice
Students are requested not to
bring their cars on the campus on
Saturday, Oct. 22, due to Parents’
Weekend. All available space must
be left for the parents on that day.

The Washington and Lee Debate
Council will meet Tuesday night at
8 p.m. in Payne 32.

 

Prep and High Schools
Are Visited by Faculty
In Stepped-up Recruiting

Several members of the Washing-
ton and Lee faculty have begun a

| series of visits to preparatory and

high schools in connection with the
university's admissions program.

The program of faculty visits
is Washington and Lee’s attempt
to establish some liaison between
teaching faculty and secondary
school students, according to
Frank J. Gilliam, dean of stu-
dents at the University.

Dean Gilliam also points out that
the new program helps relieve his
office in fulfilling requests for the
various college programs in Virginia
secondary schools.

During October, three members
of the Washington and Lee facul-
ty will visit in Richmond, Charles-
ton, West Virginia and Martins-
ville. One visit has already been
made in Roanoke.

Dr. A. Ross Borden, Jr., professor
of English, will attend the college
program at Thomas Jefferson High
School in Richmond on Oct. 13. This
program will include all Riehmond
high schools.

A second English professor, Dr.
Sidney Coulling, will travel to
Charleston, West Virginia, on Oct.
31. Dr. William Jenks, professor of
history, will speak at the high schools
in Martinsville.

In past years, few Washington and
Lee professors have paid visits to
secondary schools. This year’s pro-

 

eon in his honor at the R. E. Lee
Hotel.

gram marks the first of scheduled
visits to as many schools as possible.

 

from specialists and to promote ac-
curacy, clarity, and interest in writ-
ing and editing of legal topics. The
seminar will not deal with libel and
other laws directly concerning the
press.

Visiting lecturers for the semin-
ar will be James A. Ejichner, a
member of the Department of Law
of the City of Richmond; and An-
thony Lewis, Supreme Court cor-
respondent for the New York
Times.

Five members of Washington and
Lee’s law faculty will round out the
legal discussions.

The seminar is expected to at-
tract journalists from Virginia, West
Virginia, North Carolina and the
District of Columbia. Registration
will close November 15, according to
Professor O. W. Riegel, director of
the Lee Memorial Journalism Foun-
dation.

Three students from the Wash-
ington and Lee department of
journalism and communications
and three from the School of Law
will attend the sessions.

In addition to lectures, the semin-
ar program calls for a tour of the law
library at the University, opportuni-
ties for consultation with lecturers
and a motion picture of a criminal
proceeding accompanied by explana-
tory remarks.

Newsmen participating in the sem-
inar will be sent advanced informa-
tion with suggested reading assign-
ments in preparation for the sessions.

Post-seminar plans feature an
assignment in local legal report-
ing. Each participating journalist
will be given a selected appellate
court decision on which to write
a news story. These stories will in
turn be read and criticized by a
committee from the department of
journalism and communications
and the School of Law. Certificates
will be presented to those partici-
pants who complete all the work,

This is the first such seminar to
held at Washington and Lee. The
University has sponsored previous
seminars on libel and other laws di-
rectly concerning the press.

A five-man advisory committee
has been established for the semin-
ar. Committee members include M.
Carl Andrews, Roanoke, past chair-
men of the National Conference of
Editorial Writers; Chief Justice John

(Continued on page 4)

 

Troubadours Rehearsing
Christopher Fry Play

The Troubadour Theatre of Wash-
ington and Lee University will open
its 1960 season with Christopher
Fry’s verse comedy, The Lady’s Not
For Burning. This fanciful drama
deals with the germination of a
beautiful love between a charming
maiden accused of witchcraft and a
soldier of fortune seeking to end
his life. The play’s 15th Century set-
ting helps make it an excellent ve-
hicle for a cast composed predomin-
ately of favorite Troubadour actors.

The role of the lady who is not
for burning, originally written for
and created on Broadway by Pamela
Brown, is played by Margaret Da-
vis, a resident of Lexington with a
long string of Troubadour credits.
Her leading man, playing an intel-
lectual vagrant, is John Dunnell,
who was featured in all three pro-
ductions here last season.

The supporting cast is also full of
familiar names. Dick Roberts, whose
comic ad libbing in “Taming of the
Shrew“ will long be remembered on
the campus, will present the hard
working clerk, Richard. Bob Allen,
seen in The Devil’s Disciple, chases
witches again as the dogmatic mayor
of Cool Cleary. Undertaking comic
roles for the first time as the foppish
brothers are Ron Alenstein and Firth
Spiegel.

Andy Leonard is one more taking
on the frock and tuning his lute in

(Continued on page 4)
Page 2

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

Che Ring-tum Phi

Tuesday

Edition

Member of Virginia Intercollegiate Press Association

 

Reform Needed

The seventy-six freshmen who did not pledge a fraternity
during rush week became eligible for deferred rush as of last
Friday. Their reasons for not pledging during rush range from
hesitation to choose between two fraternities to the disappoint-
ment either of receiving no bid at all or of not receiving a bid
from a much admired fraternity.

Many of these boys have expressed a desire to join a social
fraternity. Those who held back because they were not sure
which fraternity to join have, by this time, made up their minds.
Those who were frightened by the rush of their first week at
Washington and Lee have for the most part regained their com-
posure and are ready to face the already hostile ranks of fra-
ternity men who have settled down to the year’s routine and who
now regard all freshmen as “‘pledges.”’

Even after seeing their fellow freshmen return from the
first “‘line-ups’’ and hearing them complain of the many duties
involved in pledging, these boys are anxious to join a fraterni-
ty. Despite the valiant efforts of the Campus Club to provide
entertainment for these boys, several have admitted to us that
they ‘feel left out.” They have realized that to enjoy the social
conveniences which their classmates take for granted, they must

join a fraternity.

We feel that these boys do not get a fair chance to look at
the fraternities under the present rules of deferred rush. Most
of the fraternities are fairly well satisfied with their pledge clas-
ses. Some of them are simply not interested in deferred rushing
under any circumstances. Others look on deferred rushees as
boys whom nobody else wanted. (We know of at least one boy
who received bids from three fraternities but turned them down
in hopes of receiving another more desirable bid during defer-

red rush.)

These boys should be given a better opportunity to see the
fraternities in which they are interested. Under the present sys-
tem, their only method of communication with the fraternities
is through the pledge classes (unless they have the courage to
walk into one of the houses and announce that they are in-
terested). In any case they are required to approach some fra-
ternity man, pledge or active, and ask to be allowed to come to
the house for a meal or some other function.

We suggest that the first Saturday of deferred rush be
set aside as a day of formal rush with certain hours during which
fraternities may make dates with rushees and during which in-
terested freshmen might make dates with the fraternities.

If all fraternities would cooperate, the deferred freshman
would be given a chance to see all the men in the fraternity and
the active members would have an opportunity to meet those
boys in whom their pledges express an interest.

We feel that the present system leaves too much respon-
sibility with the freshmen, both pledges and rushees, and that
some of this responsibility should fall on the shoulders of the

upperclassmen.

Both the deferred freshman and the fraternities would bene-

fit from the new program.

 

Poll Finds Nixon’s Campus Prestige

Due To Parents,

By GERRY OUELLETTE and
WYNN KINTZ

With less than three weeks to
Election Day, the nation’s “sampl-
ing” pollsters still find the presi-
dential candidates running neck-
and-neck. The climate of opinion
within the confines of W&L differs,
however, from the findings of these
pollsters, at least so far as we can
ascertain.

The sentiment shown by the stu-
dents for Vice-President Nixon ap-
pears overwhelming. For example, in
a poll conducted at random last week
in front of Washington Hall, sixteen
out of twenty-five students expres-
sed their preference for Vice-Presi-

dent Nixon over Senator John Ken- |

nedy.

We find this simple result ex-
tremely puzzling. Could it be that
the pollsters’ estimates are in er-
ror? Will Nixon swamp Senator
Kennedy despite the predictions of
a tight race? Of course, this out-
come is always a possibility; past
experience, however, indicates
otherwise.

May we now offer various ex-
planations which may possibly clar-
ify this matter. First, this strong pro-
Nixon sentiment here might rest on
the fact that Republican sentiment
in Lexington may have rubbed off
on the students. (Lexington went for
Ike in ’52 and ’56.) This assumption,
however, seems meaningless. W&L
student contact with Lexingtonians
is, at best, non-political. Moreover,
it is doubtful whether mature col-
lege students would be swayed by
any such pressures.

Second, one might think that the
faculty’s tendencies would influence
student favoritism. This possibili-
ty, we maintain, has merit. The stu-
dent’s mind (definitely the more
open in a toss-up between him and
a professor) looks for cues from his
entourage. The professor remains for

 

Not Professors

him the more infallible of places;
consequently, an influence is born.
However, faculty influence falls
greatly when the count is taken:
professors split on their individual
choices very near the 50-50 mark.

We advance another explana-
tion, and to us, what seems the
most logical reason. Economics
offers us, to a certain degree, the
best answer thus far. It is not un-
known that W&L students are,
on the whole, products of families
of means, and that many students’
fathers head, manage, or control
interests in large industrial con-
cerns. Since, traditionally, the Re-

(Continued on page 4)

 

Allen Exposes
Hollins Gestapo

By HARVEY ALLEN

While dissecting the latest edition
of the Hollins Columns, we came
across a story about a recent meet-
ing of the Student Government As-
sociation. We did a double take when
we read the following paragraph:

Members of house board, who
carried out the room check sug-
gested by the executive council,
reportedly found no girls remain-
ing in their dormitory rooms dur-
ing the compulsory meeting.”
Good grief!

First, it would be well to remem-
ber that Hollins has an honor sys-
tem, much like ours. It covers ap-
proximately the same things ours
does, with obvious modifications for
a young ladies college. Although
their executive council is not exact-
ly like our Executive Committee, it
is similar.

Second, consider that this S.G.A.
meeting was a “compulsory meet-

(Continued on page 4)

 

Florida Democrats Mend Fences, Regain Strength

By PETER JAMES LEE

Former Editor of the Ring-tum Phi

It is now possible to venture a few
tentative comments on the Florida
political picture. Lyndon Johnson
spoke in Pensacola two days ago,
winding up his two day blitz of Flor-
ida. Before his visit, things were
pretty rough for the Democrats.
Governor Collins is staunchly pro-
Kennedy, but he’s not very strong
any more because of what most Flor-
idans feel is his too liberal position.
The titular head of the party is now
Farris Bryant, the Democrat-nom-
inee for governor and a shoo-in for
the post. While Bryant is a Harvard
law man, an extremely brilliant and
capable legislator, he is also an ex-
treme conservative. Bryant and the

other Democrats running for state |

offices met in Jacksonville several
weeks ago and drafted a set of con-
servative principles as a platform—
a position which explicitly repudi-

ated the national platform. All the!

state-wide candidates said then they
would vote Democratic, but would
not campaign for the national ticket.

Sen. Spessard Holland made a
similar statement. Sen. George
Smathers, Kennedy’s southeastern
campaign manager was, of course
more strongly for the ticket, but
also has attacked the national plat-
form. The few liberal Democrats
in the state haven't had much to
say—if they did say much, they
would do more harm than good.

The regular GOP organization has
been working harder than ever be-
fore. There’s the state-wide “Flori-
dians for Nixon-Lodge” organiza-
tion separate from the regular GOP
which has also organized in just
about every county. Before Johnson
spoke in Florida, the tide was strong
for Nixon.

Although Florida will perhaps be
the major battleground in the South,
I think the picture has changed con-

 

siderably this week. Johnson’s whis-
tle-stop tour was successful in gath-
ering large crowds, but most import-
ant, successful in drawing together
the diverse wings of the party. Now
the conservative elements under
Bryant have come out “enthusiasti-
cally” for Kennedy (in Bryant’s own
words). Sen. Holland, Sen Smathers,
and the entire congressional delega-
tion are now 100 per cent behind the
national ticket, and the talk about
the platform has been pushed aside.
Johnson made a big hit with his
“Y’all are my kind of folks” pitch,
and Lady Bird’s Southern accent was
drooling.

Surprisingly, civil rights doesn’t
seem to be an issue in Florida. The
religious issue and foreign affairs,
in that order, appear to be foremost
in voters’ minds. However, the area
where one would expect the strong-
est anti-Catholic sentiment is in
Baptist, Anglo-Saxon, Old South
Cracker West Florida’s Third Con-
gressional District—from Pensacola
east through Tallahassee—and
fortunately for the Democrats, West
Florida is traditionally the strong-
est loyalist section in the state. There
is little talk of Nixon among the “av-
erage” people of this section. Of
course, the talk at the country clubs,
Episcopal and Presbyterian church-
es, Rotary clubs and cocktail parties
is almost all the way Nixon, but
that’s not surprising. The important
thing is that the Third District, es-
pecially after Johnson’s visit is, I
think, fairly solid in the Democratic
column. The only major threat was
Faubus’ name on the ticket, and the
Arkansas governor officially request-
ed Florida’s secretary of state to take
it off. These crackers would vote for
Faubus but never for a Republican.
I’ve been to a couple of rural politi-
cal rallies, and invariably the speak-
ers mention Hoover and the depres-
sion, Eisenhower’s sending troops to
Little Rock, Reconstruction, Castro,

 

Recent Argument A gainst Senator
Goldwater Distorts I nformation

By HUGO HOOGENBOOM

In last Friday’s Ring-tum Phi a
column appeared which was devoted
to an attack on Senator Barry Gold-
water and his book. The main point
of the attack was that Goldwater
isn’t really a conservative because a
conservative is one who wants to
preserve the present form of gov-
ernment, and Goldwater actually
wants to change it. This makes Gold-
water a radical. Besides indicating
a definite dislike of Goldwater, the
article proved little else but the
danger of becoming tied to words
whose meaning is largely emotional
and changes according to who uses
them.

The “conservatives” of today gen-
erally advocate a minimum of gov-
ernment interference in the affairs of
men. They were formerly called lib-
erals, and were opposed to the con-
servatives of their day who advocat-
ed government control of nearly ev-
erything. Gradually the liberals won,
and when they had, seeked to main-
tain the system they established.
Then, through the mysterious al-
chemy of politics, they become con-
servatives and those who opposed
them liberals. This is an outrageous
over-simplification, but explains
why Goldwater considers himself a
conservative, to the apparent con-
fusion of some.

Other than attacking Gold-
water’s use of the term “conserva-
tive,” the article confined itself to
stating some of his positions and
then stating the writer’s disagree-
ment. While this may be an ad-
mirable statement of a personal
credo, it is hardly a valid criticism
of a book.

One of Goldwater’s positions
which the article held up to scorn
was the one opposed to social secur-
ity. Social security is so generally
accepted that an attack on it is re-
garded as evidence of insanity. The
reaction is: “He’s against social se-
curity. (Isn’t he dumb?)” Nothing
more is said. Social security is one of
this age’s ikons, and nothing more
need be said.

But the reason people are opposed
to social security is that it is compul-
sory, it is governmental interference
in the individual’s right to use his
earnings as he sees fit. A man has
no choice as to whether he will par-
ticipate or not. Mr. Goldwater, a con-
servative (by his definition), one
who is opposed to government inter-
ference into private affairs, is thus
opposed to social security. If you
grant his premise, his logie is sound.
To attack his position, you must at-
tack his premise.

The article ended by agreeing
with the Pravda review which
called the book “dangerous.” This
should mean either that the book
should be burned, or that it is so
forceful as to endanger the cur-

 

rently popular political attitude.
We must presume that an earnest
liberal would be opposed to book-
burning (except in the obvious
case of “Little Black Sambo” and
“Huckleberry Finn”) and accept
the alternative, that the book must
be a good defense of the conserva-
tive position and consequently a
telling attack on that of the lib-
erals.

It is currently fashionable, among
the so-called educated class, to be
liberal. Therein lies the greatest
danger to liberalism: too many of its
new recruits are only capable of
pointing and crying “Troglodyte!
Fascist! McCarthyite!” and seem to
be unable to state a solid intellectual
basis for their position. They might
be compared to the average college
student of thirty years ago who went
about crying “Red!” It is the con-
servatives who are now breaking the
ikons, and you can’t stop them by
crying heresy.

 

Reporter Urges
UN Resolution

By GEORGE BIRDSONG

Along with many other Americans,
I find myself wondering why the
U.S. does not take the offensive in
our struggle with international Com-
munism. Is it that we have been
cleverly convinced by the Russian
propaganda that they are not the
most imperialistic and colonial pow-
er in the world today?

Let’s reveal the facts and then
point a finger at the real villain
USSR. In the UN this year “colon-
ialism” is one of the dirtiest words
used. Everyone repeats that the co-
lonial era is finished, and that all
colonies must be liberated immed-
iately.

No delegates gave more lip ser-
vice to this principle than Khrush-
chevy when he said it is time “to
mount the final offensive against
colonialism.” He then continued by
saying “colonial administration in
all its forms should be abolished
completely.”

Why then has no Western delegate
risen to offer for Assembly vote a
resolution applying these universally
sound principles to the only remain-
ing major colonial administration,
the Soviet Empire? Add Red China,
and you have the two nations that
are continuing to expand at the ex-
pense of other peoples.

Both are Communist countries,
and all told, these two nations now
rule a colonial empire that covers
one fourth of the earth’s surface
and includes 18 major colonies, with
1.4 million square miles of territory
and a colonial population of 139 mil-
lion. This empire has expanded rap-

(Continued on page 4)

 

and Joe Kennedy’s death in a plane
with a Texas Baptist—these are the
things that appeal to the Crackers,
and you can count on West Florida
for the Democrats.

The picture in the rest of the
state is more difficult to assess.
Central Florida—the orange grove
county—is perhaps the area where
the religious issue will be most ef-
ective against Kennedy. Sarasota,
St. Petersburg, and Orlando are
probably safe for Nixon. In Jack-
sonville, it will be close, with Ken-
nedy in the lead, but Barry Gold-
water has been very effective
there, but mostly on the aristoc-
racy. Both Nixon and Kennedy ap-
pear there next week. Tampa and
Miami are anybody’s guess. Again,

LETTERS

TQ THE | »

We are thoroughly disgusted! In

Dear Editor:

last Friday’s edition of the Ring-tum
Phi there appeared a column en-
titled “Senator Goldwater’s Con-
servatism Refuted,” which gave an
example of an uninformed, biased
person’s attempt to write about poli-
tics. What resulted was an erroneous
misrepresentation of the views of
one of the great political philoso-
phers of this generation, Senator
Barry Goldwater. We shall try only
to answer the allegations made in
the column, rather than to present
and defend Senator Goldwater’s phil-
osophy.

The first two paragraphs of the ar-
ticle brand it as an utterly ridicul-
lous distortion of political realities.
The Democratic Party, dominated
by Jack Kennedy, Hubert Humph-
rey, “Soapy” Williams, Walter Reu-
ther, and Eleanor Roosevelt, is rec-
ognized as the party of the Left, and
any attempt to make it appear mod-
erate is just the wishful thinking of
a group of die-hard Democrats who
do not realize political truths.

Though the Republican Party
certainly has its left-wing, it is
controlled by middle-of-the-road-
ers, such as President Eisenhower,
Richard Nixon, Thruston Morton,
and Walter Judd. How can the
Democratic Party be labeled mod-
erate and the Republican Party
radical?

 

3

 

In a democracy there is a need for
diTerences in political thinking. Only
a government formed through com-
promise can represent the general
public. The Republican Party toler-
ates divergence by seeking the help
and influence of Senator Goldwat-
er’s faction.

In direct contrast, the Democrat-
ic Party has told its conservative-
wing, the Southern Democrats, that
they are not needed for election, and
has insulted them with boos in Los
Angeles.

The columnist attacks Senator
Goldwater on the basis of person-
al appearance. Does he think that
Senator Kennedy has the mature
mien of a President of the United
States? Or doesn’t he look more
like a Harvard playboy?

We wonder whether the columnist
has even read Senator Goldwater’s
book, The Conscience of a Conser-
tive, or whether he has just read a
review of the book by The New Re-
public, one of the most radical pub-
lications in this country. Should peo-
ple avoid reading this book for fear
of being accused of “naivite (sic),
self-righteourness, chauvinism, and
plain ignorance” as purported by the
columnist?

The columnist implies that Vice-
President Nixon is influenced by all
members of his party, including Sen-
ator Goldwater. Isn’t Senator Ken-
nedy influenced by Walter Reuther,
John Galbraith, and the Americans
for Democratic Action?

The columnist suggests that all
conservatives vote Democratic this
year because “the old notion of
creeping socialism in the Demo-
cratic party has been dispelled.”
Has it been dispelled, or has it
been intensified?

A portion of the column was de-
voted to Senator Goldwater’s for-
eign policy. Although we do not
agree with all facets of the Sena-
tor’s foreign policy, we do wonder
why he is attacked for proposing a
tough policy toward international
communism. The Democratic Party
should have been tougher with the
communists during its twenty years
of fiascos in regard to Soviet Rus-
Sla.

We can respect people who dis-
agree with Senator Goldwater’s
philosophy of government; however,
people who ridicule and criticize the
Senator without any factual ref-
erences and bases do not deserve
our sympathy.

GEORGE T. COWARD

both candidates will speak in each
place next week, and that might
be the turning point.

To sum up: three weeks ago, most
people felt Nixon had a good edge
in Florida. Johnson has mended
fences and the Democratic organiza-
tion is now moving, and moving fast.
What happens in the next few weeks,
of course, will be the deciding factor,
but I might venture that the relig-
ious issue will either be forgotten or
the Democrats will play up a “If
you vote for Nixon you're a bigot”
theme. Probably the main issue,
more and more, especially in the key
area of Miami, will be foreign af-
fairs. Castro means a lot down there,
and the party which proves it can
handle him effectively might be the
winner. In the long run—and I’m just
guessing—I think Kennedy will take
Florida.

 

Webster Unabridged
Speaking Rules,
UCA Discussed

Signs of the times: one afternoon
last week, having completed my de-
gree application, I strode out of
Washington Hall into the tradition-
al October sunshine. The atmos-
phere was redolent of ivy, tweed,
,and learning.

My glance wandered over the daz-
zling columns, with their perpetual
Ipana smile; past the tastefully at-
tired trees; across the greensward’s
smoothness.

Down the slope, a beer can’s throw
from Old Cyrus, were thirty little
girl-children, playing dog-and-bone.
The game appeared entirely spon-
taneous and disorganized; the play-
ers were in a ragged circle, and
seemed unable to keep in a fixed
pattern. What’s more, gentlemen,
they were—oh, the monstrousness
of it—actually shrieking with de-
light!

Obviously these girl-children had
not been assimilated into the tra-
ditions of Washington and Lee Uni-
versity. They did not know that we
frown on frivolity.

But, come to think of it, perhaps
they picked an ideal spot to be friv-

olous in.
* * *

We understand that the UCA is
learning about “Campus Gods” again
this year. Also that the Forensic
League is debating the merits of sub-
sidized athletics.

My guess is that, after the foot-
ball team’s eye-opening successes
this fall, there’ll be very little in-
terest in exhuming the subsidiza-
tion controversy. As for campus
gods, we enjoy worshipping them too
much to do anything except point
a self-righteous finger every now
and then.

ae * *

As a few freshmen seem confused
about the speaking tradition, some
elucidation of the rules seems appro-
priate. It is necessary to speak to
someone only when:

1. He looks as if he expects you to
speak.

2. His tie is tightly knotted, and of
the proper design.

3. He passes within three feet of
you, approaching at an angle be-
tween 145 and 180 degrees. (Note:
a convenient custom is for the
freshman to mumble “Hi” just as he
passes abreast of the other person.)

* * ok

Last, and certainly least, a note
of thanks is due to the SWMSFC
(pronounced “Swumps”) for relax-
ing its entrance requirements enough
to admit an Independent Party man.
Truly the mercy of the University
Party surpasseth understanding.

 

NOTICE

There will be a meeting of the For-
ensic Union at 7:15 p.m. Thursday
in the student union. The topic will
be: “Resolved that American col-
leges should be subsidized in ath-
letics.”. Everyone interested is in-
vited to attend.

The Ring-tum Phi
Tuesday Edition

The Ring-tum Phi is published Tues-
day and Friday during the college year.
It is printed by the Journalism Labor-
atory Press, ashington and Lee Uni-
versity, The mailing address is Box
, jexington, Va,

sntered as second class matter Sep-
tember 20, 1946 at the Post Office, Len-
ington, Va., under the act of March
oe. '

ational Advertising Representative:
The National Advertisers ervice, ine.
420 Madison Ave., New York, N.Y. :

OE cocessicsccsesteceseacssee Rosewell Page, III
Business Manager............... Huntley Biggs

Editorial Board

Managing Editor... Bill Roberts
Assistant Managing Editor

 

‘ict Fun
Sports Edito : "hue Gra
eature Editor... Harvey Allen
Associate Editors....... Lanny Butler, Bill
Smith, Ronnie King

 

News Editor

 
    

 

ROBERT G. HOLLAND

COP BGG ssiiscicc, Roger Paine,
Hunter Manson

Photography Editor.................. Bill Young

 

 
 

THE RING-TUM PHI

Page 3

 

 

Generals Victorious Yellow Jackets, 26-3

W&L Capitalizes on Macon’s
Mistakes In Game’s Second Half

The Washington and Lee Gener-
als traveled to Ashland, Virginia,
Saturday, and gained their fourth
victory of the season with a 26-3 tri-
umph over Randolph-Macon. W&L
got off to a slow start but scored
three times in the second half against
the outgunned Yellow Jackets.

Much to the delight of the partisan
Homecoming crowd, Randolph-Ma-
con stopped the powerful W&L run-
ning attack and drew first blood
early in the second quarter on a
thirty yard field goal by Harry Hul-
vey. The Generals took the ensuing
kickoff and drove down to the Jack-
ets’ 10, where the drive stalled.

Two plays later, the alert W&L
defense recovered a fumble on the
19. This time the Blue and White
were not to be stopped and quar-
terback Steve Suttle cracked over
from the 3 for the touchdown. The
half ended with W&L holding a
precarious 6-3 lead.

The Generals’ running attack
finally got rolling in the third quar-
ter. Bob Funkhouser capped a sixty
yard scoring surge with a 2-yard
plunge. Suttle ran over for the two
extra points to give the Generals a
14-3 lead. Suttle scored the touch-
down which was set up by Dan
Blain’s bunt which rolled dead on
the Jackets’ 4.

In the waning minutes of the
game, Suttle tossed a 39-yard scor-
ing pass to halfback Jim Hickey
after a Randolph-Macon fumble.
The try for two points failed and

 

the game ended with the Generals
on top 26-3.

Once again the feared W&L de-
fense proved too much for the oppo-
sition as the Yellow Jackets were
held to a mere 73 yards on the
ground. Bob Funkhouser led the vic-
tors’ ground attack while Terry Fohs
intercepted two passes and recover-
ed a fumble to spearhead the de-
fense.

YARDSTICK

WEL R-M
Fittt GOW ociccscsssciain 12 9
Yards rushing ............ 208 73
eS erOE ORES aii 58 114
PIM noni itelt 12-22
Passes intercepted by....5 0
POE i haan 7-36.6 5-34.8
FHMDICN  1OOE....scsesssssneress 1 3
Yards penalized ............ 61 81

REMAINING GAMES

Oct. 22—Johns Hopkin................. Here
Oct.

Nov. 5—Carnegie Tech................ There

Nov. 12—Sewanee............cssessee Here*

Nov. 19—Washington Coll......... There

NOTICE

This Saturday, the Generals will
face what is probably their toughest
opposition of the season. Johns Hop-
kins has a strong team. Thus far they
are undefeated in two seasons. The
Blue and White have their longest
undefeated streak since the advent
of the deemphasis policy. Let’s sup-
port the team.

 

Es oc BO

 

Facing W&L’s Steve Suttle in the quarterback position this week is Johns
Hopkins Al Freeland.

 

I-M NOTICE

The next round of the fall intra-
mural sports is scheduled to start
within the next week. The four
events which are included in this
series are swimming, bowling, touch
football, and Sigma Delta Psi.

Swimming starts the 24th of this
month and will be followed by
touch football starting on the 30th
and Sigma Delta Psi.

 

 

For those extra pieces
of

FURNITURE

for your room
see our stock
before buying

8
VARNER AND POLE

 

 

VARSITY
BILLIARD
ACADEMY

Catering
To Students

Corner of

Washington and Jefferson

LPSEeEES TEESE ETE E EES

IDEAL
BARBER SHOP

QUICK SERVICE

IO I
Te Pat ge Ee ES Mgt PEt Mat MES Mat OO MET

eee

 

Pebbbetbeetbeddbeddd

Leetrerseeseseeeeeseess

 

THE NEW

White Top

Restaurant
*

eee pee eee eee eee &

A personal invitation
to the
Students

Try our delicious foods
Route 60 East

‘ithe atte ate Ma Ma Ma site ate ste se ste ste tte ste te ta te ite tte Ma te a Bate ite te Ba te Be te tte tate te
ee eS eS Se Se eS eS eS eS ee eee

 

eee

ee ee ee

 

29—-Hampden-Sydney...... There Fullback hiner Martin breaks away from opposing tacklers in ow recent

Homecomings game.

 

 

X-C Team Loses
To Lynchburg

The cross-country team of Wash-
ington and Lee suffered a 49-15 de-
feat from the runners of Lynchburg
College last Friday afternoon on the
Hornets home course.

The first six places in the meet
were taken by Lynchburg men with
Mike Brumby, Mike Shank, and
Stoney Duffey following them.

The meet, which was run dur-
ing the halftime of the soccer game
between American University and
Lynchburg, was the fourth for the
Generals and the first loss of the
season. They had previously de-
feated Prieffer, Randolph-Macon,
and Hampden-Sydney.

The next team the cross-coun-
try men will meet will be Rich-
mond on the 28th of this month.
The W&L team was originally
scheduled to participate in the
State AAU Meet but plans have
been changed. Following the Rich-
mond meet the team will run
against High Point and Catawba
in a dual meet at High Point,
North Carolina, and will close the
season with the State Meet at
Hampden-Sydney.

 

Frosh Defeated

By Staunton
In Close Game

The Freshman football team lost
to the Staunton Military Academy
team, 7-6, last Friday afternoon. The
freshman team, while making the
first score of the game, could not
keep their edge over the Staunton
team.

Throughout the game the Baby
Generals fought their opponents
off the goal line and only allowed
them one touchdown, but the ex-
tra point conversion was the de-
ciding factor.

Coach Hal Bates said the biggest
factor in the loss was the off week
which the team had between the
game with Woodberry Forest and
Staunton. Also a contributing factor
to the loss was the amount of ill-
ness which has hit the team in the
last week or so.

Bates also cited halfback Jay
Norman as being probably the
most outstanding of our team in
the game last Friday. Norman
came out late for practice, and
this was the first game he had real-
ly been able to play in.

 

 

 

7o get awey from a GRIZZL

 

The Southern Inn

Cordially invites you to make this your headquarters for good food
Here you get the best food for the most reasonable prices

Our Specialties:

Steaks, Chicken, Country Ham, and the best sandwiches
in town

Meet your friends here

 

 

 

SevooeS Teo e Te Tee eT eer OT eE TE rere TNS NTE TION TIONS

eee

fr eeberte ober soboesbe ode obe rte leben hoe oe oe oe oe nde rb oboe oe eee tebe bebe nde bende nde ode nbn ooo ode dente of oleate

We Feature

SEALTEST

Dairy Products
“To get the best get Sealtest”

over twenty different products in addition to
delicious Sealtest ice cream

Block and Crushed Ice

Your favorite mixes—Ice Cold

Maple-Rock Distributors, Inc.

Phone HO 3-2168

$0000000e00sseeseeeeennensseeeseees

Fohs Is Named
R-t Phi Player
Of The Week

One of the reasons for W&L’s
tromping of the Randolph-Macon
Yellow Jackets last week was the
strong line play of the team which
centers around Terry Fohs, center
and tri-captain. His performance in
last Saturday’s game and his con-
sistent defensive game earned him
this week’s player of the week.

In the Randolph-Macon game Ter-
ry, in his line backer position on the
line was one of the main reasons for
keeping the Yellow Jeckets at only
nine first downs and 73 yards rush-
ing compared to W&L’s 12 first
downs and 208 yards rushing.

Fohs, by his performance at Ash-
land, showed again why he was
named “roughest” player of the team
his freshman year and has led the
team in tackles for the last two years.
His talent comes out in the defensive

tackling field and his hard-hitting
enthusiasm on the line provides
| a spur to the rest of the team.

In recognition of his game Sat-
urday, the Richmond Times-Dis-
patch named Terry the Lineman of
the Week, an honor which we heart-
ily concur with.

Bootmen Play UNC;
J.V. Team Loses to U.Va.

The Washington and Lee soccer
team will play its fourth game of
the season this Wednesday on home
ground when it meets the Univer-
sity of North Carolina on the Alum-
ni Field at 3:15.

The bootmen’s record so far
stands at 2-1 with wins over Pfeif-
fer College and Randolph-Macon.
In their encounter last week
with Duke University they lost
3-0.

The Coaches Corner

Coach Reviews
And Previews

What a wonderful thing this mo-
notony is! Let’s hope that it keeps
up.

Again I must report the victory as
squad earned. The “blues” scored
twice, the “reds” once, and the
“golds” once. After a shakey first
half, our boys really went to work
as the fired up Yellow Jackets be-
gan to wilt in the muggy heat.

I was especially proud of the over-
all effect on defense, the work of
the “blue” line on offense, and Dan
Blain’s punting which was a big
factor in the game’s outcome.

For unsung heroes I pick Malcolm
Brownlee and Bill Wheeler. It was
the blocking of these two tackles
that enabled our halfbacks to gain
consistently on our quick opening
plays.

Why didn’t we go for the one point
rather than the two point conver-
sion? We are greedy.

This week we will meet the
strongest opponent we have played
thus far. Johns Hopkins is unde-
feated and this past week they
smothered Haverford 48-0. The Blue
Jays run mostly from a “wing-flank-
er” formation. The attack features
the passing of Henry Ciccarone and
Joe Cioni. Norman Steketee is the
principal runner from the fullback
spot.

COACH MAC

 

 

 

North Carolina which is rated as}
second in the south, should pro-!
vide a stiff opponent for the Gen- |

(Continued on page 4)

Radio Hospital

*
Radio, TV, Phonograph
Sales and Service

*

HO 3-3531

 

 

 

 

Meee eee lee ees

LLL R DE Rt eles

Shirt Service as You Like it

Quality Cleaning and Pressing

UNIVERSITY CLEANERS
HO 3-

4
4
* :

:

“Your Campus Neighbors” ;
‘

4

”

i i i i i i iti i i i i i i tt

te cMte Mia che Ain Ate Bie Ain Bia hie a Ba ce

Ta RY MES MES PES EE TES MRS MES MET MES MES Mt Me Pe Re PEt Pt Mt Me Ee a

3622

 

-

 

LELEEEEE TEETER EDEN E ETE ETE E EEE E ET

We ote

 

 

Tee Tee ee eee ode oe oer ode ade ode ode onde endo ode sere oe oe ate oe we fe ofe ae oe ole ole af ae ole ole ole ale ofoofe fe ole oe oleae ofe atest

etetoited

 

'STUDEN 7 ACCOUNTS
INVITED HERE

Regular or Special Accounts

The Peoples National Bank

101 South Main Street
Lexington, Virginia
Member Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation

ie oho of ofe 0} Be ebenbenle sree oe oe se ote oe rte rte of nde rte te ote

a

Se eos oo ode nde oe nde oe oe ofe ae ofe ole oe ofr ofe of of of of oe we fe fo ne fone ne oho fe ale ae none ae oe oe oe oe oe he oe she oho he she she she she she oe

9

i i i te ee ee

Oy

 

  
  
  

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
  
  
  

  

[SHE'S GAINING...

Pou

  
 

  

IFWEGET 2 pve
ACROSS THE 7 ruAT CURRENT

RAPIDS... WOULD BOWL
SHE'LL auir! £1

 

 

CARRY IT
ACROSS!

  
  

 
 
 

    
 
   
 
    

        
   

PICK UP WHAT YOU SURE THINK.
ONE OF FOR? IT FOR YOURSELF!
THOSE ROCKSH cr Weicy MUST BE WHY YOU

    

NOW WE'RE
AcRoss-
WHAT DO I
DO WITH
THE ROCK?

50 POUNDS!
E>

 

 

SMOKE VICEROY

'YOU BET! VICEROYS
GOT IT...AT BOTH ENDS!

me GOT THE FILTER,
GOT THE BLEND!

  
    
   
    
  
 
   
  
 
    
 
   
 

GOT

K THE

FILTER...

 

 

©

Viceroys got it...
at both ends

     
  
 

160, BROWN & WILLIAMS

  
  
     
   

GOT a
7 face

Filter Tip

» Nicymox 4

 

ON TOBACCO CORP

 
 

 

Page 4

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

Hollins Gestapo Questioned

(Continued from page 2)
ing.” The words “compulsory meet-
ing” eall to mind things like Uni-
versity Assemblies on our campus,
which are covered by our Honor
System.

With these two points firmly
fixed in mind, consider what the
aforementioned “room check”
amounts to. We consider the thing
and come up with visions of some-
thing like a “Hollins Gestapo,”
making unannounced or irregular
checks during required meetings
and assemblies, such as the S.G.A.
meeting, to see if all able-bodied
Hollins girls did actually attend
the “compulsory meeting.”

Even though the same story goes
on to say that “... the check of rooms
was simply a reminder to ‘lagging’
students of the five point penalty for
cutting reguiarly scheduled meet-

Varsity & J.V. Soccer Lose |

(Continued from page 3)

 

erals and according to Coach Joe |
Lyles, “This will probably be the|
hardest team we will meet this year, |
excluding first-rated Maryland. We}
will have to work hard to win.” In
their lineup the North Carolinians
have an All-American Candidate
and a number of returning letter-
men.

The remaining schedule of the
team includes Lynchburg, North
Carolina State, Roanoke College,
Virginia, and Maryland, which is
rated the first team in the south.

* * *

The Junior Varsity squad of the
soccer team lost its first game of the
season to the University of Virginia
Freshmen, 7-1.

Coach Joe Lyles attributed the
defeat to lack of interest on the part
of the students, especially in coming
out for the sport. The squad consists
of only nine men, while a regulation
squad has eleven. Lyles said that he
was sure that there were boys in
the freshman class who had played
soecer in high school or prep school,
but they had just not come out.

 

 

STANLEY WARNER

STATE

et) cece)
|_HOBART 223424 |

 

 

LAST TIMES TODAY

mein

Ll CHARLES

  

 

STARTS WED.

MATINEE WED.
1:30 p.m.

ings of the association,’ the whole
operation seems to have an air of
snooping to us. We have the word of
more than one Hollins girl that these
room checks are not used just at the
beginning of the year, but might oc-
cur any time during the school year.

It is not immediately evident that
to cut such a meeting would be any
more serious than cutting a Univer-
sity Assembly, but the fact remains,
however, that the University does
not question whether or not the
white card with our name and date
on it really was filled out by the per-
son whose name is on it or not. Our
Honor System takes care of the au-
thenticity of attendance cards.

We wonder if attendance cards,
like ours, would be an acceptable
substitute for the “room check”
used by the executive council of

S.G.A. at Hollins. If so, then the |

problem is solved.

Our impression, from the story and
from subsequently talking with Hol-
lins girls about it, is that such cards
wouldn’t be an acceptable substi-
tute at Hollins.

We realize the strength or weak-

ness of the Hollins honor system is |

not an earth shaking problem for
W&L men to lose sleep over. Earth
shaking or not, doesn’t it raise a

| question or two as to the strength

of or validity of the honor system
at Hollins College in your mind? We
at least wonder about it, though not
constantly.

 

NOTICE
There will be a meeting of the Stu-
dent War Memorial Scholarship

Fund Committee tonight at 7 o’clock
in the Student Union. All new mem-
bers are requested to be present.

 

 

 

COLOR by DELUXE

CINEmaSc ore Sm ,

 

 

mek ie

WED.-THURS.
“A GREAT FILM”

Archer Winsten, NY. Post
“A UNIVERSAL
EXPERIENCE”

Bosley Crowther, N.Y. Times

 

 

at ‘2th Street
WA. 46339

Sth AVENUE Cinema

 

 

 

 

ee

’

w
<=
=
2
Q

<
=
a

Store

(Opposite State Theater)
i
Phonographs—Hi-Fi
Expert Repair Service
ik

5 W. Nelson St.
HO 3-3522

Lexington, Va.

Fee oe Se endo oder afene ne oho ae se fone ofe whe ole fe ole oe afe ofe ae afe ohe ae ofe ole ofe ole af
Sete nfo nde ole ole oe nfe oe ofa ne sfonde feof feof ae oon feof fe she afe slo ale ode ofe fe ole fe

%
seofrfeodeofeteofecteoofesteoteteoteoteofetectestetetete

%

%

 

 

 

 

 

 

ROCKBRIDGE LAUNDRY

and
Dry Cleaners

Shirts Transparently Wrapped
for Freshness
*
AGENTS:

Fraternities, Dorms and Co-op

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Open a convenient student Checking account
TODAY

at

Rockbridge National Bank

Member Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation

The Four Freshmen, the McCoy
Brothers and Buddy Morrow will be
the musical features for Hollins Co-
tillion Weekend, November 18-20.

Two dances at the Hotel Roanoke,
Friday afternoon dormitory open
house, Saturday afternoon concert
and a Sunday brunch are the sched-
uled events for the big weekend at
Hollins.

Buddy Morrow and his band will

evening from 10 ’til 2 in the Hotel
Roanoke ballroom.

 

| Music Convention Chooses |

| Dr. Stewart’s Composition
|
| ter,” a composition by Professor
| Robert Stewart, associate professor
‘of fine arts at Washington and Lee
| University, has been selected for in-
| clusion in a program of contemporary

works at a music critic’s convention
| early in November in Chattanooga,
| Tenn.

The quintet will be presented Nov.
4, at the national convention of the
Music Critics Association. It will
be played by the Chattanooga Sym-
phony.

Professor Stewart's composition
was selected for the convention pro-
gram by the Southeastern Com-
posers League, of which he is a
member.

A member of the Washington and
Lee faculty since 1954, Professor
Stewart directs the University’s Glee
Club in addition to his regular teach-
ing duties.

play for the formal dance Friday |

Morrow’s band made _ famous)

“Five Visions for Woodwind Quin- |

Hollins Cotillion Will Feature Four Freshmen;
Tea And Two Dances To Be Held At Hotel Roanoke

“Night Train” as well as “One Mint
Julep” and “I Don’t Know.” In ad-
dition to the band’s music, Buddy
Morrow’s trombone also on the rec-
ord, “Tara’s Theme” from
With the Wind, is pointed out by
laymen and musicians as an example
of excellent musicianship.

Morrow’s musical repertoire in-
cludes the whole spectrum of pop-
| ular music from early dixieland,
| rhythm and blues, and intricate
ballads to full progressive jazz
interpretations.

 

| The Four Freshmen will entertain
lat the Saturday afternoon concert.
The Four Freshmen,
played at most major colleges in the

United States, not only sing but also

| play seven instruments.

The Capital recording stars have
‘made numerous songs popular and

| famous. “Day by Day,” “Blue World”

;and “There Will Never Be Another
You,” are a few Four Freshmen hits.

The McCoy Brothers, reported-
| ly the new and up and coming band,
will play from 8 ’til midnight Sat-
urday at the informal dance in Ho-
tel Roanoke’s ballroom.

| eR eT RT svninnoiee

Journalism Seminar
(Continued from page 1)

W. Eggleston, Norfolk, Chief Justice
of the Virginia Supreme Court of
Appeals; I. William Hill, Washington,
feature editor of the Washington
Star; Robert J. McClandish, Fairfax,
president of the Virginia Bar Asso-
ciation; and William J. Missett, Suf-
folk, president of the Virginia Press
Association.

 

 

Finest

SUNDAY

 

 

 

 

Choice Meats
WwW

Route 60 Buena Vista

Tareyton has the taste—

Dual Filter
does it!

Ted’s Steak House

Foods

DINNERS

Gone

who have

UN Resolution

(Continued from page 2)

idly in recent years while colonial
empires of the western nations have
shrunk. Up to this time not one of
the Communist colonies has been set
free.

It is necessary that we bring this
fact to the immediate attention of
the world’s population, both the
leaders and the masses. What bet-
ter way could we bring this fact to
the attention of the world than by
a dignified presentation of the facts
before the UN.

Why then should not a resolution
be directed at the USSR? Perhaps,

 

Troubadour’s Present
(Continued from page 1)

order to represent a plot to trap the
witch. To continue his repitoire of
| character presentations, Tim Morton

will play the comic drunkard whose
| disappearance sets the entire plot in-
| to action. The pompous town justice
1 is presented by Merv Clay.

 

Lovely Lisa Tracy will make her

second appearance with the Troubs,
| this time as an innocent young coun-
| try girl who finds that love is more
| wonderful than she had ever imag-
ined.

 

the next resolution offered in the UN
should read something like this:
Whereas, Albania, Bulgaria, Cxecho-
slovakia, Hungary, Poland, Rumania,
North Korea, Latvia, Lithuania, Es-
tonia, ete...are and of right ought
to be free to choose their own form
of government...the UN calls on
the government of the USSR to pre-
pare, at once, popular elections by
secret ballot within each of these
nations, under UN supervision, with
prior opportunity for political ten-
dencies to present their candidates
and programs....

 

Raven Rants
(Continued from page 2)

publican party has stood as the
party of “big business,” it is logi-
cal to believe that many students’
parents sympathize with Republi-
can party policies, and hence fav-
oritism for Nixon.

We must assume that students
at W&L merely reflect the views of
their parents. We realize that this
simplified explanation appears to
run away from the main question, or
rather it tends to place us full cir-
cle facing the original problem. The
faults of this explanation we cannot
discount, however, it remains the
best idea with which we were able
to satisfy the query.

 

 

BROWN’S
CLEANING
WORKS

We call for

and deliver
HO 3-2013 14 Randolph St.

Green Valley Motel

One Mile North on
U. S. Highway No. 11

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA
HO 3-2195

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The First National Bank

of Lexington
*
has special checking accounts

for students

 

 

Filters for

flavor
—finest flavor by far!

THE TAREX. TON RING MARKS THE REAL THING!

   

A

 
    

Here’s how the DUAL FILTER DOES IT:

1, It combines a unique inner filter

of ACTIVATED CHARCOAL

. ++ definitely proved to make the taste of a cigarette mild and

smooth...

2. with a pure white outer filter. Together they select and balance
the flavor elements in the smoke. Tareyton’s flavor-balance gives
you the best taste of the best tobaccos.

wew puar rer LATEVLON

_ J, Qz > “e : : "
Product of She marican SAbaceolom, ny — © baceo is our middle name ©4 1 co

 

 
 

 

Ww Ww

FRIDAY
Edition

Kennedy For President-See Page 2

Che Ring-tum Phi

Washington and Lee Semi-Weekly Newspaper

Ww Ww

FRIDAY
Edition

 

Volume LXI

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA, OCTOBER 21, 1960

Number 11

 

$300,000 Robert E. Lee Research Fun

 

Senator Smathers Lashes At Nixon;
Says The South Will Vote Democratic

People Hungry for Leadership, Reds 90 Miles Away,
Voting Republican Vogue Out of Style””—Smathers

By GEORGE HONTS
Managing Editor

Speaking before 150 ardent Demo-
crats at a luncheon in the Robert E.
Lee Hotel Thursday, Senator George
Smathers of Florida said that the
“People of the U.S. are hungry for
leadership,” and that they are tired
of the lax leadership of the Republi-
can administration.

Sen. Smathers who has campaign-
ed in 32 states for the Kennedy-
Johnson ticket also told the enthu-
siastic audience that he is confident
of a Democratic victory on Novem-
ber eighth. He based his prediction
of victory on the large crowds which
Kennedy has been drawing across
the country. Everywhere, according
to the Florida senator, Kennedy’s
crowds outnumbered Nixon’s by
5,000 to 7,000. And in Jacksonville,
Fla., a supposedly strong conserva-
tive city, Kennedy drew 28,000 list-
eners in the same day Nixon drew
12,000.

Return of the South

Smothers confidently predicted the
return of the solid South to the
Democratic fold. He said that the
people of the South are realizing
that it is in the Democratic party
that they belong. With 15 of 19 im-
portant Senate committee chairman-
ships being held by Southerners
when the Democrats are in power, it
is illogical to vote for a Republican
executive. Sen. Smathers also said
that the vogue to vote Republican as
“the thing to do” is fading, just like
the vogue that made ulcers “the
thing to have.”

Smathers’ contention that the so-
called “Democrats for Nixon” (also
known as “Hyphenated Hybrids” by
former Virginia governor John Bat-
tle) are returning to the party of
their birth. Smathers credited this
trend to Kennedy’s straight forward-
ness in his speeches and the fact that
the Massachusetts senator included
a Southerner on his ticket over the
protests of other groups.

Lashes Nixon

Smathers then lashed out at Nix-
on’s two-tonguedness. He cited the
fact that Nixon told his audience in
Richmond that there was no place
in the Democratic party for the
South. Then he traveled to New
York and told an audience in the

garment district there that the
South’s viewpoint is over-represent-
ed in the Democratic controlled Con-
gress.

Smathers’ praise for Kennedy
drew an ovation from his Lexington
audience. Smathers called Kennedy
a man who could “walk with kings
and never lose the common touch.”
He called him a man of courage and
great intellectual capacity. Combined
with these traits is Kennedy’s tre-
mendous popularity. “He is some-
thing like a cross between Elvis
Presley and FDR,” was Smathers
comment.

Two, Maybe Three

The Senator admitted that two,
possibly three, states in the South
are shaky at this time. He confident-
ly predicts that Florida will go Dem-
ocratic after the wide acclaim that
Kennedy and Johnson received
there. That state has been considered
undecided. The Senator is also op-
timistic about the Old Dominion. He
cited a poll by the Norfolk Ledger
which gave Kennedy 57 per cent to
Nixon’s 42 per cent in Virginia’s sec-*
ond district which was strongly Re-
publican in 1952 and 1956. He also
said that Virginia’s Hyphenated
Hybrids” are coming back to the
Democratic party in droves.

Smathers indicated that the relig-
ious issue was taking its toll in Ok-
lahoma, but that Texas would defi-
nitely go Democratic.

On Cabinet Posts

In a news conference following the
luncheon, Smathers commented on
Kennedy’s position on cabinet posts,
particularly in regards to appoint-
ing a Negro. Ledze’s statements have
been unwaveringly in favor of ap- |
pointing a Negro to a cabinet post.
Kennedy has stated and stands by
his stxtement that he will not pick a
cabinet unti! he is elected, but then
he will chose men who are qualified
regardless of race or other inhibi-
tions, Smathers said.

He also said that President Eisen-
hower had refused to spend the
money eppropriated for defense, and
consequently the defense of the na-
tion had lagged. The Senator was
confident that the American people
had become aware of this lag, and
also that the communists are only

(Continued on page 4)

 

 

Staunton Host
To Eisenhower

Dwight David Eisenhower, Presi-
dent of the United States, will visit
Staunton next Thursday, Oct. 27, and
will speak at the annual meeting of
the Woodrow Wilson Birthplace
Foundation at the Wilson home.

The President will also be guest
of honor at a luncheon given by the
city of Staunton, the Birthplace
Foundation and Mary Baldwin Col-
lege in the college’s King auditor-
ium. Seven hundred tickets will be
sold at $10 a piece for the luncheon,
and will be issued on a first-come,
first-serve basis. Orders are being
received by the Staunton Chamber
of Commerce.

President Eisenhower is scheduled
to speak from the porch of Mary
Baldwin College—the same spot that
Wilson delivered his address on
“Service” during his homecoming.

Eisenhower is the second chief ex-
ecutive to visit the Wilson shrine.
President Franklin Delano Roose-
velt dedicated the manse in 1941 as
a national shrine. The President has
expressed a desire to visit the birth-
place of his mother near Staunton
on what is locally known as the “Old
Stover Farm.”

Following his speech, President
Eisenhower will fly back to Wash-
ington for a dinner engagement.

 

Notice

A reception for all non-fraternity
students and their parents is to be
given in the Student Union directly
after the football game. Several
members of the faculty and adminis- |
tration are expected to be present.

 

Undersecretary Abbott
Refutes Religious Issue

The Undersecretary of the Inter-
ior said in Lexington yesterday that
the public will have to judge if the
frequent reference to the religious
issue in the 1960 presidential race
“is a planned campaign of anti-
bigotry bigotry.”

George W. Abbott said at a press
conference here that “I am amazed”
that Democratic spokesmen keep
raising the question.

“It ought to have halted a long
time ago,” he said.

Abbott said that he thinks both
Sen. Kennedy and Vice President
Nixon “sincerely mean it” when they
say religion should not be a factor
in the campaign.

He said that he believes the num-
ber of persons who will vote either
for or against Sen. Kennedy solely
because of the Senator's Roman
Catholic religion “is negligible.”

Abbott drove here from Wash- |
ington, D.C., at the invitation of |

(Continued on page 4)

 

| demonstration by Dr. Marion Junk-

 

Smathers Talks with Chairman of Young Democrats, Jerry Hyatt.

 

ee eae

 

Three Evenin g Programs

Begin Parents’ Weekend

Parents began registering this
morning for Washington and Lee’s
sixth annual Parents’ Weekend.
More than 900 parents and guardians
are expected for the weekend.

Indications are that this will be
the largest attendance for Parents’
Weekend since the program was ini-
tiated in 1955.

Registration, which wes held this
morning from 10 to 12 and from 2
to 5:30 this afternoon, will be re-
sumed from 7 to 9 tonight in Wash-
ington Hall. Those parents arriving
tomorrow will be able to register
from 9 to 11:30 am. in Washington
Hall.

At 8 this evening parents may at-
tend one of three programs present-
ed by the faculty of Washington and
Lee. Professor O. W. Riegel, chair-
man of the department of journalism
and communications and Dr. Ollin-
ger Crenshaw, professor of history,
will dicuss “Political Campaigning—
Then and Now.” Donald Rhinesmith
will preside over the discussion
which is to take place in Lee Chapel.

A discussion on “Educational Per-
spectives at Home and Abroad,”
will be held by Dr. E. D. Myers,
chairman of the department of phil-
osophy and Dr. Marshall Fishwick,
professor of American studies. This
discussion will take place in New-
comb 8. James Vann will preside.

The third program offered this
evening will be a lecture-painting

 

Nine Men Earn Degrees

During Summer Sessions

Washington and Lee University
has granted degrees to nine men who
completed requirements during the
summer.

Five bachelor of arts, three bachel-
or of science and one bachelor of law
were awarded following approval
of the applicants’ records by the uni-
versity’s Board of Trustees.

J. E. Buchholtz, Vickeburg, Miss.;
received his LL.B. Bachelor of arts
degrees were given to William T.
Bosserman, Winchester; Curtis Grin-
nell, Rochester, N. Y.; J. J. Haun,
Marcellus, N. Y.; J. D. Wilcox, Way-

 

land, Mass.; and W. B. Young,
Louisville, Ky. Bachelor of science |
degrees went to Willoughby Newton, |
Richmond; and K. E. Rohnke, Long |
Beach, Calif.; R. B. Kilmon, Balti-|

science degree in Commerce.

in, chairman of the department of
fine arts. Dr. Junkin will discuss
“Realism vs. Cubism.” He will spend
approximately 15 minutes painting
a realistic sketch of a live subject.
Then he will turn to the more mod-
ern cubist style. As he paints he
plans to discuss the difference in
technique as shown by his two ex-
amples. The demonstrations will be
held from the stage of the duPont
Auditorium.

Following the programs, coffee will
be served for parents in the home
of President and Mrs. Fred C. Cole.

Tomorrow morning parents may
meet by appointment with the fac-
ulty and administration. Parents may
also attend classes with their sons.

During the morning the Student
Service Society will conduct guided
tours around the campus. Tours will
be leaving every few minutes from
Washington Hall.

The highlights of Saturday’s pro-
gram will be the “Report to Parents”
at 11 am. in Doremus Gymnasium.
The program will be opened with!
an invocation by The Rev. David
Sprunt, University chaplain; this is
to be followed by a talk from Kent
Frazier, president of the student

(Continued on page 4)

 

UCA Lecture
Given by Rector

The Rev. John C. 7 letcher, Rector
of the Robert E. Lee Memorial Epis-
copal Church, spoke on Contempor-
ary Theology to a group of interest-
ed students Tuesday evening. This
lecture was the first in a series of
three leading up to the University
Religious Conference that will be
held November 9-11.

The conference will feature Dr.
Nels F. S. Ferre, a noted theologian
from Andover-Newton Theological
Seminary. The overall topic of the
Conference will be “Biblical Faith
and Modern Thought.”

Next Tuesday evening, Dr. Paul
Hayner will speak on Existential-
ism. The following Tuesday evening,
Dr. Sprunt will lecture on World Re-
ligions. These lectures will be held in
the Student Union and will last from
7 to 8 p.m.

During the University Religious
Conference, there will be three lec-
tures for the entire student body.

 

i|more, Md., received a bachelor of | On these days, classes will be short-

(Continued on page 4)

d Established

The establishment of a Robert E. Lee Research Fund for

undergraduate research at Washington and Lee was announced
today by President Fred C. Cole.

President Cole said a gift of $300,000 from an anonymous
donor will endow the program. In addition, he said that $20,000
has been made available for appropriate activities during the

 

Dr. Moses Hadas
To Be October
Seminar Speaker

By NED BROWNING
Staff Reporter

Dr. Moses Hadas, Jay Professor of
Greek at Columbia University, will
be the next Seminar Speaker on Oc-
tober 31.

Dr. Hadas got his A.B. at Emory
University in 1922. He was a student
at the Jewish Theological Seminary
from 1922-26. In 1925 he received his
M.A. from Columbia, and his Ph.D.
in 1930.

Columbia’s Jay Professor of Greek
is the University’s oldest named
professorship. Created in 1830 to
honor the memory of John Jay, first
Chief Justice of the Supreme Court
and 1764 graduate of Columbia Col-
lege, the chair was first held by the
noted 19th century classicist, Charles
Anthon.

Dr. Hadas, who succeeds Professor
Kurt von Fritz to become the sixth
holder of the chair in its 126 year
history, has been on the faculty of
Columbia since 1925, with two peri-
ods of absence. In 1928-30 he left to
teach at the University of Cincinnati.

In 1942, Professor Hadas took a
four year leave of absence to serve
with the Officer of Strategie Services
in North Africa and Greece as liaison
officer to the Greek government
forces. After World War II he was
invited to deliver an address to the
Parnassus Club, the leading intel-
lectual society of Greece. Professor
Hadas delivered the address in
Greek.

He is the author of several books,
among which are: “A History of
Greek Literature,” 1950; “Aristeas to
Philocrates,” 1950; “A History of

(Continued on page 4)

PAD and PDP
Pledge 6 Men

Phi Alpha Delta pledged four men
and Phi Delta Phi pledged two men
in a recent law school rush.

Only those law students who had
successfully completed one semes-
ter of work in the law school were
eligible for rush at this time. Conse-
quently, the only men rushed were
those students who entered the law
school at mid-term of last year.

The 45 freshmen who began their
law studies this fall will be eligible
for rush next spring.

Those students pledging PAD le-
gal fraternity were: Jim Howe, Dan-
ville, Ky.; Charles Stowe, Phoenix-
ville, Pa.; Andrew ‘Uncas’ McThen-
ia, Alderson, W. Va.; and John
O’Brien, Scarsdale, N. Y.

New PDP pledges are John Paul,
Harrisonburg, Va. and Dick Radis,
New Haven, Connecticut.

 

 

Brass Choir Makes Debut;
To Appear with Glee Club

The John A. Graham Brass Choir
will make its 1960-61 debut this Sat-
urday night in Doremus Gymnasium.
Appearing with the Brass Choir will
be the Washington and Lee Glee
Club, and both organizations will
present a program for visiting par-
ents.

This year’s brass choir includes
two new trumpet players who are
Eric Wilson, a freshman from Scars-
dale, N. Y., and Kenneth Everett, a
freshman from Bastrop, La. Wilson
played also cornet his senior year
in the Scarsdale High School Band.
Everett played solo cornet his en-
tire 4 years at Bastrop High School.

Numbers that will be featured
this Saturday night include “Can-
zona No. 455” by Gabrieli, “Music for

 

*first year of the fund’s application.

Three Purposes

As established by the Univer-
sity’s Board of Trustees, the Robert
E. Lee Research Fund will serve
three basic purposes, President Cole
said. They include:

1) Promoting faculty research
activities in which promising un-
dergraduates may take part as re-
search assistants or apprentices.

2) Establishing research assist-
antships or apprentices for prom-
ising and interested undergradu-
ates for work during the school
year and during the summer
months.

3) Encouraging faculty and stu-
dent participation in interdisciplin-
ary seminars on research tech-
niques, tools, and methodology.

“It is our belief at Washington
and Lee that we should make every
effort to introduce our students to
the intellectual stimulation of re-
search and investigative study at the
earliest possible time in their aca-
demic careers,” President Cole said.
“We hope such work on the under-
graduate level will result in greater
numbers of our students going on to
graduate schools and advanced de-
grees, and also for those who will
not continue in graduate school we
feel there are basic intrinsic benefits
in such experience.”

All Disciplines

President Cole said all academic
disciplines——including physical and
natural sciences, humanities, and
social sciences,—will share in the re-
search fund’s application.

Under present plans, academic
credit will not be given to students
taking part in the program, but
President Cole said participation
would contribute greatly to a stu-
dent’s general education.

“Through their stipends as re-
search assistants and  appren-
tices, students will have an oppor-
tunity to earn a portion of the costs
of their education in a way that will
be more meaningful to them than the
experiences of the usual part-time
jobs on and off campus,” President
Cole declared.

15 Projects

Some 15 research projects involv-
ing the use of student assistants
have been submitted by Washington
and Lee faculty members for consid-
eration. President Cole said appro-
priate officials will review projects
and recommend approval for neces-
sary funds.

President Cole said he hoped the
Robert E. Lee Research Fund would
help bring about a closer relation-
ship between the university func-
tions of teaching and research.

“Particularly in an institution such
as Washington and Lee, faculty re-
search should bear the closest rela-
tionship possible to the improvement
of teaching and the advancement of
understanding and learning for our
students,” President Cole said.

Marine Visits

Captain Rodgers T. Smith, Marine
Corps Selection Officer, will be on
the Washington and Lee campus for
the first time this first semester, next
Thursday afternoon.

Captain Smith will discuss the
various Marine Corps Officer Train-
ing programs, all of which permit the
individual to graduate from college
and thereafter fulfill his military ob-
ligation as a lieutenant in the Mar-
ine Corps Reserve.

Freshmen and sophomores com-
plete the required twelve weeks’
training during the summer months
through the Platoon Leaders Class.

Qualified seniors may participate
in ten weeks of precomissioning
training following graduation, if ac-
cepted for the Officer Candidate
Course or Aviation Officer Candidate
Course.

Students

 

who are interested in

King Charles” by Matthew Locke,| talking with Captain Smith may see

and “Brillian Fanfare” by Dukas.

him in the Student Union.
Che Ring-tum Phi

Sen. John F. Kennedy For President

The Friday Edition of the
Ring-tum Phi would like to go
on record as supporting the
candidacy of Senator John
Fitzgerald Kennedy for the of-
fice of President of the United
States.

To qualify our endorsement
we choose to comment on the
following issues of the cam-
paign: foreign affairs, domestic
policy, civil rights, and the “‘re-
ligious issue.”

Putting aside the fabricated
issue of experience (for Sen.
Kennedy has served in govern-
ment as long as Nixon but in a
different capacity) although
there are comments to be made
on both sides, both candidates
agree on the goals or ends in foreign affairs—it is just in the
area of means for attaining these goals that they differ.

 

Se
Sen, John F. Kennedy

This can be dramatically pointed out in the approach that
Nixon and Kennedy took on the offshore islands of Quemoy
and Matsu. Senator Kennedy would be the first person to
admit that containing, and, where possible, eliminating, com-
munism is the overall policy of the United States. The essen-
tial difference in the candidates’ approaches is that Nixon in
his affluent (yet folksy) way would commit the United States
on specific matters without considering the other aspects of his
action. As Sen. Kennedy has pointed out, we are treaty-bound
to meet our obligations in Formosa and the Pescadores, but
the off-shore islands are not included in that treaty and be-
cause of this we can meet our commitments without jeopardiz-
ing American lives over a political issue.

He has explained that through these bickerings the United

Well Done, Generals

We are proud of our football team, its coaches and its rec-
ord. For years now editorials and columns of this newspaper
have approached Washington and Lee varsity athletics in
moods reflecting concern, indignation, regret, apathy, and
often, mere toleration.

Although we, as a student body, seemed to meet the non-
subsidization crisis with protest, we eventually surrendered to
an incomplete, unsatisfying system which surpressed the one-
time glamour and predominance of intercollegiate athletics.
While suffering the sting and embarassment of countless de-
feats, we questioned whether such a program would ever achieve
contemporary standards.

Over the past four years, a movement, or “exodus,” from
our supposed plight has been maturing. Through diligence and
acceptance of things as they are, several men are approaching
their goal. They are turning a psychological liability into a
material asset. No longer are athletic teams paid for—they are
made. Our track and swimming teams were undefeated last
season. Our football team is compiling a record of wins, and
according to the information office, “if W&L can pull it off, a
victory Saturday will (1) assure the Generals’ of their first win-
ning season since 1951 when holdovers from the ’Gator Bowl
team posted a 6-4 mark; (2) give McLaughlin his first winning
year asa college coach; and (3) provide the Generals with their
longest winning streak (six, including the 1959 finale) since
1914-15.”

We congratulate all those who have shared the dream that
Washington and Lee can fulfill its athletic goals in a manner
more conducive to academic excellence.

Welcome Parents

We would like to extend a cordial welcome to all of the
parents and relatives visiting Washington and Lee students. We
hope that your stay in Lexington will be rewarding.

We would hope that students will cooperate with univer-

sity officials in making the sixth annual Parents’ Weekend a |
success. Perhaps the student’s most important duty is to en- |

courage his parents to attend the events planned so that they
may gain a better knowledge of W&L.

The university has done its part in planning a weekend
filled with discussions, activities, and social functions. From
participation in these, our parents will leave W&L with a better
concept of student life.

 

No “Sudden Death” Quiz and No Law Suit
Give Luthy An Opportunity To Visit Sem.

By TOM LUTHY
Friday Columnist

I'd met my date before or not. We
had had a rather beery pig party at
the house on the previous Saturday,
but from her first “oink” on, I knew
who she was. I still can’t figure out
how the Abominable Snowman got
out of the Himalayas without being
shot!

Somewhat grudgingly I got into
the back seat of the car and quietly
contemplated suicide. The monotony
of it all was crushed when we stop-
ped at the College Inn to pick up a

.. And then there was the joker
who suggested going to Sem on
Tuesday night! Since the movie
theaters’ libel suit against me
wasn’t being pressed, and my “pop”
hour quiz in statistics didn’t mate-
rialize, I twisted my own arm and
talked myself into making the short,
but treacherous road trip to Buena
Vista. (They’ve got a swell police
force in B.V. too.)

Actually, I couldn’t remember if

 

(Continued on page 4)

States has focused attention on an area that should have been
left alone. As Sen. Smathers pointed out yesterday, ‘Dick
Nixon has the same military experience as Sen. Kennedy and
myself. But on a tactical matter such as the off-shore islands
he should have confidence in the military discretion of those
more fully acquainted with the area, specifically the military
command.” Kennedy, however, when the president endorsed
Nixon’s plan, held that since the issue has become the policy
of the present administration, we should uphold it. Before be-
coming policy, this plan was a dangerous instrument. Because
it was political taffy, Vice President Nixon planned to pull with-
out eating. We were not prepared at the time of the original
statement to tactically meet and strategically fortify ‘this am-
biguity in foreign policy. It is of far greater concern for
Americans to recognize the disaster in Cuba, just 90 miles from
Florida, than to risk intervention in an area to which so much
nebulous foreign diplomacy is attached.

Senator Kennedy is a realist in domestic affairs, and not in
an effort to shock, but to arouse, does he cite the characteristics
of a static America. The unrealized steel capacity, the farm
problem, and other such cancers plight our nation. Kennedy
recognizes these problems and advocates a program that will
relieve the present situation. Bound by his loyalties, the vice
president says that America is as good as always, and better than
than ever. These loyalties will not cease to exist after January.
But for Senator Kennedy, America can only achieve inter-
national prestige by becoming sound nationally. Currently, our
image abroad reflects our internal disorder.

Of great concern to the South is the issue on Civil Rights.
This has been an issue before. As reflected by their platforms
both parties agree on the ends; but, as illustrated by their ap-
proaches, they do not, again, agree on means. Votes or not,
Democratic candidates do not believe in, nor would make a simi-
lar statement to that of Republican Henry Cabot Lodge in
Harlem. Nor would a Democratic president have sent troops
into Little Rock. Statistically and traditionally the best interests

of the southern states have been best served by Democratic
administrations, and this policy will continue to flourish if John
Kennedy is elected. Lyndon Johnson represents the fervor of
the southern ideal—Virginia and Florida, as well as other bord-
er states, vigorously supported him at the convention, and will
continue to do so on November 8. The South sees in Johnson
a strong representative of her interests, and in Kennedy a per-
son cognizant of her needs.

There is no religious issue in this campaign. The candidates
do not debate about it, nor do they condone it. John Kennedy
washed his hands of the matter in his acceptance speech, at
San Francisco and has not sought to propagate it—only to dis-
pell it. There only remains the bigotry which seeks to deny the
office of president to a man only because he was christened in
his youth and holds the tenets of a religious faith. The im-
portant thing is that he worships God, and as Sen. Smathers
said, can cherish this ideal to the destruction of its opposite,
communism.

Sen. Kennedy is an advocate of progressive reform. He has
stated on numerous occasions that this reform will not be
realized without sacrifice. We feel that an analogy can be drawn
between the progress that Jack Kennedy knows is vital and nec-
essary and the progress that any university community, such
as Washington and Lee, anticipates. Both are promoted through
sound judgment and an understanding of the needs in those
areas under consideration; both have a goal—be it national
or academic excellence; and both are dedicated to the removal
of derelection of any form. If we are cognizant of both of
these ideals and pay lip service to neither, we are more apt to se-
cure both the blessings of liberty and the fruits of a good edu-
cation. On the other hand, if we become smug and self-satis-
fied with the ever-available status quo, and settle down amid
a guise of conservatism, then we cannot expect our institution
(nation or university) to meet the requirements of survival in
an age which enjoys constant and considerable flux.

It is therefore in good conscience that we endorse Senator

 

Kennedy’s candidacy.

 

 

Nixon Fumbles Issues with Lack of Candor;
Foreign Policy, Topic of Friday Columnist

By ROBERT C. KETCHAM
Friday Columnist

Tonight the moroniscope will car-
ry the last of the great debates in this
campaign. There will presumably be
talk of the off-shore islands, Cuba,
and the problem of American pres-
tige.

The issue of prestige, of our rela-
tive power and influence, is the ov-
erriding and most important issue,
but a difficult one to explain and an
easy matter to obfuscate. The dis-
heartening thing to this writer is the
manner in which it is refuted by
the Republicans. They accuse the
Democratic candidates of gloom and
fear, saying it is wrong to talk of
this country’s faults and deficiencies.

This kind of refutation cuts to the
very nerve of our dilemma, and is
the thinking which conforms to what
I would call the mal due siecle. In
America we are not supposed to be
unhappy or to feel a need for sacri-
fice—this goes against the trend of
our prosperous society. We find se-
curity in believing that the country
is well and that all others alike think
that this is so.

We are, in effect, the victims of our
own doing, of things and circum-

 

stances which we have created.
Americans lose sleep over health,
money and family problems, but
they do not lose sleep about the
problem of society. To think of the
weighty matters of state is for oth-
ers—we cannot see its effects today
they say, so why worry. Mr. Nix-
on and Mr. Lodge can pretend that
there is no problem of American
prestige, they can continue to talk
down to the voter and leave them to
wallow in complacency. But unless
we know the truth of our situation—
where we are—we cannot know
where to go, or how to get there.

From the past we have the slogan,
“politics in America should stop at
the water’s edge.” That policy is not
feasible today with our involvement
and concern as a nation in world af-
fairs; however, ad libbing under the
lights as to future policy in this field
presents much danger. It might make
for a good show to talk of what one
would do with the off-shore islands
if elected President, but it is not
very realistic in the glare of the TV.

Our position as to the off-shore
islands has remained ambiguous un-
der the present administration, and
that, in itself, is good. We do not

want to give Chiang any more of a
blank check by what we say now.
The issue is confused, too, at this
moment; Mr. Kennedy having stat-
ed and restated that he favors the
present position while Mr. Nixon ex-
tended his policy under the “princi-
ple” doctrine, but is now endorsed by
Eisenhower which takes him back to
the similar position of Kennedy.

Technically Mr. Kennedy is cor-
rect. There is no specific commitment
to defend the Quemoys and Matsus;
and a long list of military authori-
ties have said they were not essen-
tial to the defense of Taiwan. How-
ever, the fact remains that the old
way of tedious negotiations, of which
our allies would be a part, will be
the method of changing our com-
mitments and to talk further or push
this argument any more would be
absurd.

Cuba, A Vital Concern

Cuba is a vital matter of concern
today; especially since Latin Ameri-
ca is becoming the greatest battle-
ground of the cold war. Even after
Castro’s revolution, Mr. Nixon was
assuring the American people that
“the Cuban people themselves will

 

not tolerate a Communist govern-

 

ment or a Communist takeover.” Re-
gardless of this assurance, it is so.
Our diplomats hide behind the doc-
trine of non-intervention and have
achieved a spectacular diplomatic
defeat. Nor can we fully realize its
repercussions today. With half the
world struggling for improvement we
cannot maintain such a policy. With
“friendly revolutions” in several
Latin American countries, noticeably
Guatemala, we might wonder
what kind of money and what kind
of brains are behind us.

We cannot afford a fumbling with
the issues, a lack of candor or a
failure of foresight. I do not contend
that our administration is responsi-
ble for all difficulties in the present
world. Nevertheless the administra-
tion is responsible for failing to real-
ize and meet the challenge in tech-
nology and production, it is respon-
sible for having not achieved a for-
eign policy to recognize the new
balance of power, with the neutral
block of nations and the more formi-
dable Communist powers; and for a
foreign policy that is defensive and
lacks initiative. It must answer with
more than “you are downgrading
America.”

 

U, pperclassmen Lack Respect For Dormitory Rules

By MALCOLM BROWNLEE
Friday Columnist

It is midnight in the freshman
dorm. Some of the freshmen are al-
ready in bed and others are quietly
studying. A few bull sessions are
going on behind closed doors. In
room 291 a dorm counselor is getting
ready for bed. He marvels at how
quiet things are, turns off the lights
and lies down for a peaceful night’s
rest.

Suddenly the stillness of the night
is torn apart by a shrill cry from the
hall outside the counselor’s room.
“No, not tonight,” cames the cry;
“please, not tonight, Bill.”

The counselor lies still and hopes
that this unwelcome noise will go
away. But he hopes in vain. He hears
doors opening up and down the hall,
and the clamor of voices is added to

 

the original. Slowly he crawls out
of bed, turns on a light and blinks
a few times adjusting his eyes to the
light. He opens the door and walks
into the hall.

A crowd of freshmen has gath-
ered around the staircase and is
shouting at something that he can-
not see. He pushes his way through
the crowd and tells the freshmen to
return to their rooms. Some do.
Then he sees the cause of the con-
fusion.

Two upperclassmen have hold of
a freshman’s arms and are dragging
him down the stairs. The freshman
is trying to resist but is not very
successful. “Please, Bill,” he whines,
“I don’t want to go, not tonight.”

“Let’s quiet it down, fellows,” says
the counselor. He wishes he could
say more but he does not know ex-

 

actly what to say. He watches the
upperclassmen let go of the fresh-
man and silently and unforcefully
continue down the stairs with him
and out the door.

The above is a type of scene which
occurs far too often. During the first
semester of each year, the freshman
dorm counselor have almost as
much trouble with disturbances from
the upperclassmen as with disturb-
ances caused by freshmen. A stu-
dent who has graduated from the
freshman class seems to think that
he is no longer subject to dormitory
rules.

Sometimes excessive noise arises
when an upperclassman who is
merely talking to a freshman fails
to show courtesy to others in the
dormitory. More often, however, the
noise is created by an upperclass-
man who is trying to take a pledge

 

to his fraternity house.

Fraternity raids on the pledge
classes in the dorm have become a
tradition which in the minds of some
takes precedence over dormitory or-
der. Some upperclassmen seem to
believe that a dorm counselor has
no right to prevent them from do-
ing what they want to their pledges.

This attitude must be changed. All
students should realize that dormi-
tory order depends on all who are
in the dormitory, and this includes
upperclassmen as well as freshmen.

The use of physical force in order
to drag a pledge to his house seems
to me a somewhat primitive as well
as an awkward way to accomplish
this purpose. Social pressures should
be much more effective, and social
pressures cause far less noise.

Raids on the dormitory, however,

(Continued on page 4)

 

Poe

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

2-29

 

 

  
 
   

 
 

WAS BEETHOVEN
EVER A TEEN-AGER?

 

 
 

 

THE RING-TUM PHI

Page 3

 

 

Quarterback
Suttle Fires

 

Hickey
Set To Go
Saturday

Halfback Jim Hickey, a 9.9 man in
the 100-yard dash who scored 40
points for the Generals in 1959,
should be ready for unlimited duty
tomorrow for the first time this sea-
son.

Hickey, who has been sidelined
with an injured knee, has made only
three appearances in W&L’s first
four games.

Last week against Randolph-
Macon, the speedy halfback dem-
onstrated his 1959 form when he
scored a touchdown on his only
play of the game. Taking a delayed
swing pass from quarterback Steve
Suttle, the speedster raced 39-
yards for the final W&L TD.

Jim’s scoring play against the
Jackets reminded fans of 1959 when
Hickey scored three touchdowns in
the Generals’ 33-33 tie with R-M.

“That play did more to cure Jim’s
knee than all the treatment we could
give him in a year,” Coach Lee Mc-
Laughlin said. “I think he’s ready
to be a big help to us now. He'll give
us that extra burst of speed neces-
sary to turn the corner that we
haven’t displayed so far.”

Last year the 5-9, 160-pound jun-
ior from South Boston, Virginia,
paced the team in yards per carry
with a 4.6 mark. His total rushing
yardage of 208 was third best.

Hickey also was the squad’s lead-
ing pass receiver, snaring 13 passes
good for 256 yards and two touch-
downs.

The return of Hickey to the Gen-
erals’ lineup for the Johns Hopkins
game may give the Generals the ad-
ded punch they need to win their
sixth game in a row.

 

Notice

All I-M managers are reminded
that beginning Oct. 30, preliminaries
will begin for both touch football
and Sigma Delta Psi.

 

sDodge and Dodge Darts
° and Lancer °
; America’s. First Fine $
e e
* ECONOMY CAR °%
e 2
* :
: Rockbridge Motor Co.
° INC. °
° Phone HObart 3-3146 .
seeccccccceccccccccccces

 

 

Congratulations

you're still alive
but,
how safe are your tires?

We are tire specialists
Let us inspect your tires
regularly
General Tires

Kraft System Recapping

SPENCER GENERAL
TIRE CO.

Route 60 East

 

 

 

c

Underdog Generals’ Bite

Threatens Jay Win String

Underdog. |

Yes, underdog, a word familiar to |
W&L teams of the past six years, |
will make its first appearance on the |
Washington and Lee scene this year
tomorrow at 2 p.m.

Tomorrow the Five-Star Gener- |
als, who are currently riding a
five-game win streak (including
the last game of the 1959 season),
collide with Johns Hopkins’ unde-
feated grid machine at Wilson
Field. |

defense is still the weakest spot in
W&L’s defensive armour.

Johns Hopkins’ double-wing of-
fense is important because the
Generals haven’t faced this type
of offense yet this season.

“We may find it hard to adjust to

1

their double wing,” McLaughlin said.
“They use their fullbacks (Harry
Leet and Phil Sutley) very well
for ground power and their tailbacks
| (Henry Ciccarone and Joe Cioni)
are good passers, as good as any
we've faced.”

On the W&L side of the ledger

 

 

 

   

s

Johns Hopkins has snatched the, = ee

favorite’s role, but the Generals are |
hungry for their sixth win in a row— |
a feat a W&L football team has not
accomplished since 1914-15.

W&L Coach Lee McLaughlin,
kanxious to be cast as the underdog
in tomorrow’s encounter, said, “We’ll
be facing our toughest opponent yet,
and if we win, it'll have to go as an
upset.”

To back up his assertions Mc-
Laughlin cited the Jays’ 7-1 record
last year, their Middle Atlantic and
Mason-Dixon Conference champion-
ships, and their unscarred record this
year.

The Jays have two more advan-
tages on their side: a good passing
attack and their double wing of-
fense,

A good passing attack is advantag-
eous because of W&L’s supposedly
weak pass defense.

The Generals’ pass defense is im-
proving every game (in the past two
games the alert defense has picked

 

off ten opponent passes), but pass

 

Wednesday afternoon proved to be
a black day for the Generals as the
Varsity soccer team was handed its
second straight defeat. The North
Carolina “Tarheels” routed W&L
4-0 in a one-sided scoring tilt.

What was thought to be a toss up
contest before game time proved to
be an almost one-sided affair by the
time the final gun was sounded.

North Carolina scoring attack was
spread over the first three quarters,
and only chance prevented them
from tallying in the final period.

The Tarheels jumped off to a 1-0
lead mid-way in the first period off
a deflected kick which rebounded
off W&L’s left halfback and past
goalie Clark Valentiner.

The second tally came in the sec-
ond period as a result of a well
placed corner kick which was turned
into a point by the U.N.C. forward
line.

 

Co-captain Frank Smith drives past a North Carolina defender in the

 

second period of Wednesday’s contest. Frank later suffered a severe

shoulder separation.

The final scoring took place in the
third period as the Carolina center
forward accounted for two goals, off
well placed shots from close to the
nets.

Although the 4-0 score doesn’t in-
dicate it—the Generals palyed ag-
gressive ball throughout the con-
test. Center forward Dave Knight
deserves credit probably as being the
game’s outstanding player for the
Generals. Dave turned in a fiery per-
formance although bothered severly
by a bad ankle.

Also injured in Wednesday’s con-

 

 

 

 

THE DUTCH INN

For Reservation Call
MRS. KATHERINE ADAMS
HO 3-3433

 

 

 

 

 

—Photo by Renshaw

Bootmen Bow To UN c.
Meet Lynchburg Tuesday

test were Co-captain Frank Smith
and Right halfback Bob Pagano.
Frank suffered a shoulder separa-
tion while Bob sustained injury to
his foot. Both should see action next
week.

Next Tuesday the Generals will
meet powerful Lynchburg on their
home field. Game time will be 3:15.

 

 

Lexington
Laundro Matic

 

 

 

ROUTE 60 EAST

 

——

—_——

a

i
=

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Across from the White Top Resturant
HO 3-4214

Wash, Grease, Lube, Road Service

Charge Accounts Welcome

DIXON’S

ESSO SERVICE CENTER

IN LEXINGTON

SOHHOHSSOHOHHOCSCCOHOOOCEOES

PARAMOUNT
Wa

 

 

|

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

there are three factors: depth, re-
venge, and desire.

McLaughlin alternates three
complete units throughout the
game and wild-cards other play-
ers at crucial moments. This three-
team depth has been one of the
main factors in the Generals’ 4-0
record this year.

As for revenge, Johns Hopkins

' tackled W&L in 1957, McLaughlin’s @

first year as head coach here, and

;| went home with a 13-12 victory.

Seniors such as Bob Funkhouser,
Courtney Mauzy, Bill Willes, and

,_|Tom Budd should not have any

trouble getting up for a second crack

| | at the Jays.

ing to post Washington and Lee’s
first winning season since 1951;
to give Coach McLaughlin his first
winning year as a college coach;
and to chalk up a six-game victory
string—the first since 1914-15.

Only Common Foe

The only common foe that W&L
and Johns Hopkins have met is
Franklin and Marshall. The Jays
edged F&M, 12-6, the week before
the Generals battered the Pennsyl-
vania crew, 38-8.

“That comparison doesn’t mean a
thing,” McLaughlin quickly pointed
out. “We got the jump on F&M,
that’s all.”

Statistically the Generals go into
tomorrow’s contest with a total of-
fensive average of 377 yards per
game and have allowed their op-
ponents only 170 yards per game.

Pint-sized fullback Doug Martin
heads the W&L rushers with 381
yards in 48 carries—a remarkable 7.9
yards per carry.

Funkhouser with 200 yards is sec- |
ond. Steve Suttle with 142 yards is
third and Tommy Keesee with 106
yards is fourth.

 

 

Vee ee TO eT eee yee eee TC

35 S. Main Street
Phone HO 3-4121

THE HOME OF QUALITY

The desire is the team’s long- x

 

To Windy Weed
... Touchdown

 

Freshman J. Baker Wins

Fall Tennis Tournament

The 1960 Fall Tennis Tournament’s
new champion is John Baker, an
SAE pledge. Baker defeated Jerry
Wilbourn, a senior, 6-0, 6-2.

The result was a direct reversal
of last year’s tournament final, in
which a senior defeated a freshman.

The match included many long
volleys and was a fitting climax to
a hard fought tournament. The one
sided score was not indicative of the
match. Baker himself remarked that
it might have gone either way.

He received the Thomas, Ltd.,
Trophy, presented annually to the
winner of the tournament. Baker is
the second ranked amateur in the
state and should prove to be a valu-
able addition to W&L’s fine tennis
team.

 

 

 

eee eee”

i i it htt ttt

TETLOW
TV Service

221 S. Main HO 3-2841

 

 

 

 

Expert Motor Work

FOREIGN CARS AND STUDEBAKER LARKS
OUR SPECIALTY

MAIN STREET MOBIL STATION

Open 8:00 am.—8:00 p.m.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

209 S. Main (7 ~
*
HAND IRONED THE COLLEGE IN N
SHIRTS The Best Food in Town
Dry Cleaning American and Italian
Service Catering to the Students, Faculty,
. and Towns People
for your convenience ons eae
. J,

 

 

 

 

 

PLAYBOY
Tuxedo

 

 

 

 

The
COLLEGE TOWN
Shop

Complete

Formal Wear

Ser De

and

    

 

 

Accessories

Don’t Forget... Opening Dance Set October 28th and 29th

OXFORD
Tuxedo

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
Page 4

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

Sen. Smathers Lashes At Nixon;

Says South Will

(Continued from page 1)
90 miles away, in Cuba. He expressed
confidence that they would elect an
administration with a positive pro-
gram—namely, the Democratic one.

When asked how he knew Cas-
tro was communistic, Smathers re-
plied that he had been running
with the Reds since 1949. In 1954,
the bearded wonder was connected
with the Reds in Guatemala and he
has been associated with various
pink or red groups in university
activities.

On the Cuban question, Smathers
said that the people of his state were
concerned over the situation there.
They, and many other Americans,
fear the possibility of a Soviet mis-
sile base on the island. Also, he said,
many Americans are aware of com-
munist inroads in other Latin
American countries. For these rea-
sons, Smathers said the people of
America are hungry for leadership.

Battle Speaks

William Battle, son of the former
governor, and campaign chief for
Virginia, also addressed the lunch-
eon audience, predicting the large
ground swell for Kennedy in Vir-
ginia would continue to grow until
Virginia returned to the party of
Jefferson and Sen. Harry Byrd.

Charles Davidson, Rockbridge
county commonwealth attorney and
chairman of the Democratic organi-

 

 

Dr. Moses Hadas S peaking
At Oct. English Seminar

(Continued from page 1)

Latin Literature,’ 1952; “Ancilla to
Classical Reading,” 1954.

Last year, Time said: “Dr. Hadas
is a rare phenomenon—the great
teacher. Author of 32 classical texts,
former rabbi, German scholar, and
OSS agent, he leads a class with the
mixed sensitivity and audacity of an
impassioned symphony conductor.
His white beard electric with energy,
his slender, tapered fingers clutch-
ing for some bit of wisdom from the
ancients, he exhorts, recites, swears.”

Dorm Rules Disregarded

(Continued from page 2)

have become far more than just a
means of getting pledges to the
house. It is for many a game similar
to the childhood games of Cowboys
and Indians and Cops and Robbers.
The freshman seeks to avoid the ter-
rifying upperclassman and may even
hide out in someone else’s room in
order to do so. The upperclassman
searches diligently in order to find
the freshman which he can bring
to his idea of the straight and
narrow.

Such games can be fine if they
are played quietly or in other places
than the freshman dorm. The dorm
however is no place for excessive
noise or rowdy behavior. Most fra-
ternities have already found better
methods to get their pledges to their
houses. Those who cannot get con-
trol of their pledges without exces-
sive racket or physical force or both
also must find more effective and less
disorderly methods.

 

 

STANLEY WARNER

STATE

LEXINGTON, VA.
L_MOBART 32-3424 |

 

 

LASTS TIMES SATURDAY

2-5-8 p.m. continuous

 

    
 

  

} ig ona tour
: for amour...
: with

Dale ROBERTSON

y 4% AND

\VifroRIO DeSICA

| SExy”

® TECHNICOLOR - TECHNIRAMA

2 ve
;

¢3 A COLUMBIA PICTURES RELEASE

 

 

 

 

Go Democrat

zation here, introduced Senator
Smathers. Davidson is a graduate of
Washington and Lee and has served
on the Alumni board.

Other guests included Delegate
Baldwin G. Locker of Rockbridge
County, Prof. Paxton Davis, chair-
man of the county committee for
Kennedy, and former state senator
Stuart Carter or Fincastle. Two
prominent Virginians, Senator A.
Willis Robertson and Congressman
Burr Harrison of Lexington were ab-
sent due to prior commitments. They
both expressed their regrets and
stated their support of the Ken-
nedy-Johnson ticket. The Rev. John
Fletcher of the Robert E. Lee Episco-
pal Church gave the invocation.

Senator Smathers was born in 1913
in New Jersey, but moved to Florida
in 1919. He was president of the stu-
dent body at the University of Flor-
ida. During the second world war
he was a marine officer. In 1946
Smathers was elected to Congress,

SCHEDULE OF EVENTS
FOR PARENTS’ WEEKEND
Friday Evening

7:00-9:00
Hall

8:00—Coffee hour with Dr. and Mrs.
Cole

Registration, Washington

Saturday Morning

9:00-11:30-—Registration, Washington
Hall

9:00-11:00—Appointments with fac-
ulty

11:00—“Report to Parents,’ Doremus
Gymnasium
Saturday Afternoon and Evening

12:15-1:45—Buffet luncheon in Evans
Dining Hall

2:00—Football Game, W&L vs. Johns
Hopkins

8:30—Glee Club concert in Doremus
Gymnasium

'UCA Lecture

(Continued from page 1)

ened to allow
There will also be various informal
discussion groups and _ individual
meetings.

 

ard Nixon. In 1948, Smathers and
Nixon were advanced to the Senate
and Kennedy defeated Henry Cabot
Lodge two years later to join his
compatriots.

From this long association with
Kennedy, Smathers said, he had
come to greatly admire him for his
intellectual capacity and ability in
office.

People everywhere are looking to
Kennedy with hope, the Senator said
in concluding. A poll of people of
other nations, made by the Republi-
cans, show that people everywhere
now consider the Soviet Union to be
the nation with a future. In every
case, Smathers said, American pres-
tige has dropped and we are no long-
er the Number One nation in the
world in the eyes of the people. Re-
ferring to this situation Smathers
said that the people are looking to
Kennedy with hope and that he is
very capable of fulfilling their hopes.

 

—_ = e
Che Ring-tum Phi
Friday Edition

The Ring-tum Phi is published Tues-
day and Friday during the college year
It is printed by the Journalism Labor-
atory Press, Washington and Lee Uni-
versity. The mailing address is Box
899, Lexington, Va,

Entered as second class matter Sep-
tember 20, 1946 at the Post Office, Lex-
ington, Va., under the act of March

1878.

National Advertising Representative:
The National Advertisers Service,
420 Madison Ave., New York, N.Y.

Editor-in-Chief...............Nathan Simpson
Business Manager..............

Editorial Board
Managing Editor................ George
Assistant Managing ree ee.
.Roy Goodwin
Andy Nea
-Bill Outman

   
   
  
 
  
 

News Editor

Sports Editor..
Associate Editor. ..Tom Rains
Copy Editor Tom Jordan
Photography Editor..Clarence Renshaw

 

 

 

LEXINGTON
HARDWARE
COMPANY

Phone HO 3-2242

 

 

 

along with Jack Kennedy and Rich- |

inc., |

Huntley Biggs |

Honts |

Mr. Hodges, co-ordinator of the
| event, emphasized that the Univer-
| sity Religious Conference would not
| be a “Religious Emphasis Week.”
Rather, it would be a conference that
| is organized and run by the Univer-
sity Christian Association for the
benefit of the entire student body.

Abbott Refutes Issue

(Continued from page 1)

the local Republican Committee. His
press conference was held on the top
floor of the Robert E. Lee Hotel,
while five floors below local demo-
crats were having a luncheon in
honor of Sen. George A. Smathers
of Florida, a spokesman for the Ken-
nedy-Johnson campaign.

TEXACO
Super Service Station
Lexington, Virginia
Corner Main and Nelson
0000080806000 009808800

No Quiz, No Law Suit;

Luthy Visits Sem.
(Continued from page 2)

six-pack of Pepsis. (Undoubtedly,
you're familiar with the rule that
Seminary women can’t imbibe on
Tuesday nights—nor any other night
for that matter.)

Well, anyway I sure was glad that
Mom sent me a Scrabble Board for
a Columbus Day present. If Dad
hadn’t shot the Easter Bunny, I'd
have received it last spring.

I knew that my date must have a
gigantic vocabularly, since she was
sufficiently lacking in other facets of
her personality. Two thousand syl-
lables and three Pepsis later, I de-
cided to push her off the porch of

 

student attendance. |

my apartment. My Washington and
| Lee gentleman’s code restrained me,
| so I amused her by showing her last
Tuesday’s edition of the Ring-tum
Phi. Her only comments were, “I
| didn’t know Barry Goldwater was
running for President,” and “Mrs.

organized that Gestapo at Hollins.”

The minutes dragged on toward
the bewitching hour of 10:30, at
which time I hoped she might turn
into a pumpkin, or at least be many
miles away from me.

I can’t remember too well what I
said that night, for the last Pepsi
had gone to my head; however I can
recall faintly this parting shot,
“Don’t call us, we'll call you for a
dinner date and then bid you in the
dorm later!”

 

Ty
HICKMAN’S ESSO

South Main Street
HO 3-2024

PPT Tr rrr
ee ee ae ae

a til

 

 

 

Lemley, our hallmother, must have |

 

It’s Good
To Do
with

usiness
usiness
IERER’S

B

PHARMACY

 

 

 

 

(Continued from page 1)
body. Reports will then be given by
Dr. William W. Pusey, Dean of the
College; Dr. Lewis W. Adams, Dean
of the School of Commerce and
Business Administration; Professor
Charles P. Light, Dean of the School
of Law; and Frank J. Gilliam, Dean
of Students and Director of Admis-
sions. President Cole will close the
assembly with a report on his work.

A buffet luncheon for students and
parents will be held in the Evans
Dining Hall from 12:15 to 1:45.

Following the luncheon parents
are scheduled to attend the football
game at Wilson Field between Wash-
ington and Lee and Johns Hopkins
University.

The University Glee Club will
make its first appearance of the year
at 8:30 tomorrow night. Parents are
invited to attend the concert which
will feature, in addition to numbers
by the 60 man Glee Club, solos by
Sam Channell, Wes Ostergren, and
John Baker. The Capperales, a newly
organized singing group, will enter-
tain during intermission.

|

 

 

Hamric and Sheridan
JEWELERS

Watch and Jewelry Repair
Hand Engraving and Class Rings

HO 3-2022

 

 

T

 

feeb btteeEeeseeeeaesTaed
= R.L. Hess and Bro. *
z JEWELERS z
Lexington, Virginia :
; HO 3-2833 z
* +

Heefeoeeteoeoteoeoteotetenteotetesteobeteoteteotesteteoteteod
Sooke eoteobeteolesteoteoteotestetecteoteteotestoteotesteteotess

 

 

% CALL BY NUMBER +
+ and Save Time z
% +
z LEXINGTON ;
% TELEPHONE CO. ?
| %
| peetesegetetetebobebobetetetebebedegobobebders

|

 

Three Evening Programs

Begin Parents’ Weekend

Churches in the Lexington area
invite the parents to attend Sunday
services with their sons. Several
churches have planned programs for
the Weekend to follow the morning
worship service.

Parents’ Weekend is under the
sponsorship of the university and the
Parents’ Advisory Council, a 56
member body whose special interest
in Washington and Lee affords an
effective means of communication
between parents and the university.

The purpose of the weekend is to
provide parents with an opportunity
to visit the campus, meet with mem-
bers of the faculty and hear reports
from university and student body
officials.

James W. Whitehead, assistant to
the president for administration
heads arrangements for the program.

eof eoesfeoesteotesteoteotofeobeteobeteobeteobeater

 

steak
a

= ROBERT E. LEE
: BARBERSHOP

- David M. Moore

= Proprietor

Pagledeeele toledo detebdebdedebedotebde
ese heen e see ester reso re oe oe see toate ete

Baker
Ford Sales |
:

 

BETTER DEALS

CLEARANCE
of lot for 1961 Models

NEW AND
USED CARS

Me
4
le
le
ie
<
+
-
4
le
i.
i.
ie
le
le
i.
<
-
i.
¥
ie
ie
le
\e
re
.
i.
re
; Highway 60 East
‘.

.

 

Sebo oho rhe ee oho ofe oe afeafe ae she oho oho fe oe she afe afe ae feof

 

 

'

|
|
|
|
|

 

 

NEW TOWN INN
Short Orders—Lunches
Catering to Students

.

Peele

sooo rene ofeoteoeoesfesfesteofesfeoteoteofeoteoleole fest

ee

| ate

 

 

 

Wayland’s Drug Store

Prescriptions, Russell Stover
Candies

Next to Rockbridge Bank

 

 

 

 

TOLLEY’S PHARMACY

Prescriptions Filled
Immediately

PURCHASE DRUGS
HO 3-2211

 

 

BROWN’S
CLEANING
WORKS
We call for

and deliver

 

HO 3-2013 14 Randolph St.

|

eobeoeteobeteobeteobeteobeteogeteoteteogeteoteteatengeteny |

Feber

|
|
|
|
|
|
|
|

 

NAME: John Hulse AGE: 27 MAJOR: Bus. Adm.

where you have

western Bell.

One of his first

Today he is
City, lowa.

 

 

 

© 00 000000000000 0000000 0000C 0 OOOOH OOOO OOOLDEC®
FOR ROOM RESERVATIONS—CALL HO 3-2151
LEXINGTON MOTEL
Large Rooms—U., S. 11 By-Pass South
Free TV—Phones—Continental Breakfast
Only Motel in corporate limits of Lexington
SOOSOSSSSOOSOSOSHHOHSSOHHOSHOHOSSHSOSSHOOESEOOESESSE

 

 

South Dakota, he had his own set of “‘do’s” and
“don’ts.”’ Don’t become a mere cipher on some-
body’s payroll. Don’t sit on the shelf waiting for
your first taste of responsibility. Do get a job

a chance to show your stuff

right from the start. Do the job.

John knew his B.S. in Business Administra-
tion could lead him into almost any field. He
chose the telephone business and joined North-

assignments: streamlining oper-

ating procedures for the telephone offices of lowa’s
five largest cities. In this work John showed
good judgment and sound organizing ability.

Telephone Manager of Sioux

ligent, positive and imaginative men

we can possibly find.”

FREDERICK R. KAppe., President

American Telephone & Telegraph C

PRESENT JOB: Telephone Manager, Sioux City, Iowa

When John Hulse was a senior at the U. of

Besides managing day-to-day operations,
helping plan tomorrow’s telephone growth is
an important part of John’s job. A typical ex-
ample is the work he does with the Sioux City
Industrial Development Association. In this role,
he’s the answer man on projecting, planning and
supplying the communications needs of new in-
dustry. He’s shown above with Bob Sweeney,
manager of the Sioux City Chamber of Commerce.

“You must always be thinking of the future
in this business,’ John says. ‘We have to stay
ahead. I think a man who has something to offer
this outfit won’t have a minute’s worry about

what it can do for him.”

If you’re a capable guy—looking for an action
job with rapid rewards for the man who can handle
it—you’'ll want to visit your Placement Office for
literature and additional information.

“Our number one aim is to have in all
management jobs the most vital, intel-

 

oO.

BELL TELEPHONE COMPANIES

 

 
 

 

TUESDAY
Edition

Che Ring-tum Phi

Washington and Lee Semi-Weekly Newspaper

TUESDAY
Edition

 

Volume LXI

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA, OCTOBER 25, 1960

Number 12

 

 

Parents and sons enjoy luncheon held in their honor in the Evans dining

hall on Saturday.

Luncheon, Lectures, Football
Make Weekend ‘Great Success’

By JOHN KIRKLEY

The sixth ennual Washington and
Lee Parents’ Weekend was held on
Oct. 21-23. A total of 931 parents
representing 29 stetes and the District
of Columbia made this Parents’
Weekend the largest in the history of
the school. Dr. E. B. Hamer, chair-
man of the Parents’ Weekend Com-
mittee, termed the weekend “a great
success.”

Parents and guests began to arrive
Thursday evening, just as the beau-
tiful Virginia Indian Summer was
being seasoned with a few wintry
blasts. Registration began early Fri-
day morning in Washington Hall.

Registration continued Friday
afternoon, while those parents who
had already registered had ap-
pointments with various members
of the faculty and administration.
The Parents’ Advisory Council also
met Friday afternoon in the Con-
ference Room of the Letitia Pate
Evans Dining Hall. The Council,
presided over by Chairman L. P.
Nelson, Jr., of Culpeper, Va., was
addressed by the President of the
University.

Dr. Cole reported on various de-
velopments which have occurred
during the past year. He discussed
the financial aid program, the recent-
ly established research fund for un-
dergraduates and faculty, and the
new science facilities which are to
be completed before the fall of 1962.
He also mentioned the high calibre
of the student body, and explained
the innovations in the campus motor
vehicle regulations, largely a pro-
duct of this same Council.

Following Dr. Cole’s talk were a
discussion period and the election
of next year’s officers. Mr. Richard
T. Edwards (class of ’35) of Roa-
noke, Va., is the chairman for 1960-
61.

The

Council is an organization

designed to promote understanding |

between the parents and the Univer-
sity and to serve the University in
an advisory capacity.

 

Openings Collegian Ready;
Sweet Briar Featured

The Openings issue of the South-
ern Collegian will be available for
the student body on Oct. 28.

As in the past, the Southern Col-
legian, which is published four times
a year, will reflect the humorous
side of Washington and Lee’s cam-
pus activity through the use of
satire, caricatures and other forms
of high humor.

Additional features of the cur-
rent Collegian will include a guide
to the Virginia girl’s schools, an
article on the Commons, and the
beauty section, which will feature
Sweet Briar.

The staff of this year’s Collegian
is headed by Hugo Hoogenboom,
editor; Ken Beale, managing edi-
tor; Bill MeCardell, business man-
ager; and Bill Young, photography
editor.

Hoogenboom stated that positions
are still open on the staff for any-
one interested in working for the
Collegian.

 

Formerly, membership has been
limited to a representative number
of parents with boys in each class
and from a variety of geographical
hackgrounds. This year, however,
three students also attended the
meetings: Dave Lefkowitz, Don
Partington, and Louis Nelson.

Fridsy evening there were two
discussions and a lecture which the
parents could attend. Mr. Reigel and
Mr. Crenshaw spoke on “Political
Campaigning—Then and Now.” This
group met in Lee Chapel under the
direction of Don Rhinesmith. Jim
Vann presided over a discussion of
“Educational Perspectives at Home
and Abroad”; Dr. Fishwick and Dr.
Myers were the speakers. Dr. Jun-
kin conducted a lecture and paint-
ing demonstration in the auditorium
of duPont Hall on the topic “Realism
vs. Cubism.” He was assisted by Don
Thalacker and Norbert Irvine.

The scheduled events for Friday
concluded with a coffee given for
parents and their sons at the resi-
dence of Dr. and Mrs. Cole.

Saturday morning, parents had
further appointments with faculty
members and other school of-
ficals. Donald H. Partington, the
President of the Student Service
Society, and other members of the
SSS conducted campus tours for
the parents.

At 11:00 am. there was an assem-
bly of parents in the Doremus Gym-
nasium. This “Report to Parents”
included short talks by Warren

(Continued on page 4)

Hayner Talks
Tonight at 7:00

Dr. Paul Hayner, Associate Pro-
fessor of Philosophy, will conduct
a discussion on Existentialism tonight
at seven o’clock in the Student Union.
This discussion is a preliminary to
the lecture on that subject to be de-
livered by Dr. Nels Ferre on Nov.
10 during Religious Emphasis Week.

A student of men prominent in the
field, such as Dr. Paul Tillich of Har-
vard, Dr. Hayner has an extensive
background in Existentialist philos-
ophy. After attending Union College
in Schenectady, N. Y., he received
his Bachelor of Divinity at Union
Theological Seminary in New York
City and his Ph.D. at Columbia Uni-
versity.

 

Dr. Hayner plans to present in
outline the main teaching of
the Existentialist movement as a
whole, discussing the bearing of
the philosophy on both the Chris-
tian and non-Christian points of
view. Some of the issues that Ex-
istentialism has raised will be
brought up for discussion and
criticism,

Dealing with a subject that has
confused so many students, Dr.
Hayner says he will have a method
of presentation which will bring the
philosophy into a sharp focus. He
adds, however, that the purpose of
the discussion is merely to show that
Existentialism is not just a name,
but a way of thinking which has
come alive.

 

Rabbi Wice Well-Known Leader

Rabbi David H. Wice of Congrega-
tion Rodeph Shalom in Philadelphia
will be a supporting speaker for
the Religious Emphasis Week, Nov.
9-11. Dr. Wice will speak Wednesday
evening, November 9, on “Religion,
Sex, and Marriage” and Thursday
evening, Nov. 10, on “Science and
Religion.”

W&L Graduate

Dr. Wice graduated from Washing-
ton and Lee, with the degrees of
Bachelor and Master of Arts. While
a student here he was elected to
Phi Beta Kappa, Kappa Phi Kappa,
and other honorary groups. He was
recipient of the Howard Houston
teaching fellowship, “The highest
academic award given by the Univer-
sity.” In 1948, he was awarded the

honorary Doctor of Divinity degree.

After five years of rabbinic
training at the Hebrew Union Col-
lege in Cincinnati he was ordained
a Rabbi in 1933. In 1954, he received
the Honorary degree of Doctor of
Hebrew Letters. Having served as
Rabbi of Temple Israel in Omaha,
Neb., and of Temple B’nai Jesh-
urun in Newark, N. J., Dr. Wice
now has a life tenure with his
Philadelphia congregation at Ro-
deph Shalom.

In each of these cities, Dr. Wice
has been an active worker in the
community. His work has dealt
mainly with social service, especial-
ly in the field of family life. He
has lectured at many universities
throughout the country, and has

served on the Executive Committee
of the Central Conference of Amer-
ican Rabbis, and on the Board of
Governors of the Hebrew Union
College—Jewish Institute of Religion.
In 1954 he was elected president of
the Philadelphia Board of Rabbis,
and in addition to this position, he
serves on numerous other Philadel-
phia boards in such fields as mar-
riage, family, and education.

Dr. Wice has traveled in many
countries of the world and has been
made chairman of the “World Com-
mittee for Liberal Judaism in Is-
rael.” He was formerly American
Director for the World Union for
Progressive Judaism.

George Birdsong, UCA publicity
director, says that Dr. Wice should

 

 

 

add variation to the program.

Dr. Wice

 

Staunton Host
To Eisenhower

On Thursday

Staunton, Va., and Mary Baldwin
College will be host to a luncheon
honoring President Dwicht D. Eisen-
hower, on Thursday, Oct. 27. The
President will follow in the tradition
of three other Presidents, Calvin
Coolidge, Franklin Roosevelt, and
Woodrow Wilson, all of whom have
visited Staunton.

The President will -rrive et the
Shenandosh Valley Airport about
11:30. After a review of an Honor
Guard there, the President will pro-
ceed to the birthplace of his mother
near Ft. Defiance, and shortly there-
after arrive on campus at Mary Bald-
win.

The Trustees of the Woodrow
Wilson Birthplace Foundation will
conduct the President on a tour
of the National Shrine, at whose
invitation the President is appear-
ing in Staunton. After visiting the
Birthplace of Wilson, the Presi-
dent will go to the front porch of
the Main Building of the college
and, on the scene where President
Wilson delivered his speech on
“Service,” make a short non-polit-
ical address.

Mr. Eisenhower will then go to
King Auditorium of Mary Baldwin
College where he will be guest of
honor at a luncheon sponsored by
the City of Staunton, the Birthplace
Foundation, and the college.

Approximately 700 tickets will
be sold for this event on a first-
come, first-served basis. The price
will be ten dollars a plate. Fol-
lowing the luncheon the President
will return to the airport by car
and fly back to Washington for a
dinner engagement.

Three Washington and Lee stu-
dents will go to Staunton Thursday
to cover the visit of President Eisen-
hower to Mary Baldwin College. The
students are Dave Goller, senior PEP
from Martinsville, Va., Harvey Al-
len, KS senior from Fort Worth,
Texas, and Bill Smith, SAE soph-
omore from Birmingham, Ala. Goller
is director of Home Edition and
Allen is Program Coordinator of
Radio Washington and Lee. They
will make a tape recording of the
President’s speech for use by both
Radio Washington and Lee and
Home Edition. Smith is an associate
editor of the Tuesday edition of the
Ring-tum Phi and will cover the
occasion for the paper.

 

Notices

The EC has announced last night
that dance plans are not transfer-
able. If an attempt is made to
transfer a plan, it will be consider-
ed as a breach of the schools
honor code.

* + *

The International Relations Club
will meet Thursday in the Student
Union at 7:15 p.m. Professor Myers
will speak: “Reflections on Ger-
many.”

* * *

The Young Republicans and the
Young Democrats will both hold
meetings in the Student Union
tonight at 7.

* 1 *

There will be a meeting of the
W&L Debate Council on Thurs-
day, Oct. 27, at 7:15 p.m, in Payne
32.

 

Dr. Moses Hadas, professor at Co-
lumbia and famous classicist, will
speak at W&L on Monday.

 

Study By Phillips Published
In Economists’ Journal

Dr. Charles F. Phillips, Jr., assist-
ant professor of economics at Wash-
ington and Lee University, is the
author of an article in the forth-
coming November issue of Land Ec-
onomics, a quarterly journal distrib-
uted to major American colleges and
universities.

The article—entitled “The Com-
petitive Potential of Synthetic Rub-

ber”—is a revised chapter from Dr.

Phillips’ thesis for his Ph.D. from
Harvard University. The paper deals
with the question of whether syn-
thetic rubber can or cannot com-
pete with natural rubber.

Land Economics, a journal that
deals with planning, housing and
public utilities, is published for na-
tional college distribution by the
University of Wisconsin.

Syme To Speak
On Duke Plan

Mr. Sam Syme of Duke Univer-
sity, a Washington and Lee alumnus,
will be on the campus on Thursday,
Oct. 27, to discuss the Duke Master
of Arts in Teaching Program with
interested students. Appointments
may be made with Dr. W. M. Hin-
ton in duPont 204.

The Cooperative Program in
Teacher Education at Duke has re-
cently been expanded under a grant
from the Ford Foundation. Approx-
imately 40 students will be accepted
into the fifteen month program for
1961-62. Upon completion, the stu-
dents will have received a full year’s
salary and experience as a teacher,
tuition scholarship, a master’s de-
gree and certification for public
school teaching.

 

Two summers of academic work
are taken on the Duke campus
and in the intervening year, the
intern teaches in one of eight co-
operating public school systems in
North Carolina and Virginia.

Washington and Lee is one of 23
colleges formally allied with the Co-
operative Program from a five state
area. Dr. William Hinton, the official
W&L representative, said, “the Pro-
gram in Teacher Education at Duke
is considered to be an all univer-
sity responsibility. As a result, it
operates under an advisory commit-
tee consisting of the Dean of the
Graduate School of Arts and Sci-
ences, the Chairman of the Depart-
ment of Education, and professors
from the humanities, the natural sci-

 

ences, and the social sciences.”

Mock Election To Be Sponsored
By Home Ed., Sigma Delta Chi

Home Edition, Washington and, register the students reactions to as

‘Lee redio news show, and Sigma! much of the campaign propaganda as
Delta Chi, journalism fraternity of | possible.

Washington and Lee, will sponsor

a mock election for the students and at : —— he _ d

feculty of the W&L campus on Mon- a ee —— a
: ocrets end the Young Republicans

~ tg a —. . | would give their whole-hearted sup-
the lobby of Washington Hall for| Port to the election and that they
= ; would campaign to have their can-

a oe oe — bit fac- | didates elected. He emphasized that
” : 1 a = <— ail aa S€P-| Home Edition is an impartial organ-
a | ization that has teken no stand on

The outeome of the mock elec- | the election issues or the respec-

 

tion should give both the Young
Republicans and the Young Dem-
ocrats some idea as to how effec-
itve their campaigns have been to
date and how much emphasis each
group must place on the last week
before the election.

David Goller, Home Edition di-
rector, said that the election is be-
ing held as near to the November
8 election as possible in order to

 

tives platforms or slates of candi-
dates.

There is no age requirement for
voting in this election. All students
and faculty of both the Academic
and Law Schools are eligible. Mem-
bers of the administrative staffs are
also urged to participate.

Results of the election will be
broadcast over Home Edition on
Monday night.

 

Oder, Chairman

Of Local GOP,

Challenges Democrats To Debate

Henry Oder, Jr., a young Lexing-

 

ton attorney, has issued the follow-
ing challenge: “I will debate anyone
favoring the Democratic ticket on
any phase of the 1960 Presidential
campaign.” Oder informed the Tues-
day Ring-tum Phi that if any person
answering this challenge would con-
tact either Chris Harrell or Bob
Chipley at the Paramount, he would
gladly answer the challenge.

 

Student Bar To Hear Talk
On Law’s Practical Aspect

The Student Bar Association will
present Mr. Arnold Schlossberg at
7:30 p.m. on Thursday, Oct. 27, in
the Moot Court room on the third
floor of Tucker Hall.

The subject of Mr. Schlossberg’s
talk will be Legal Economics—a
Law Student’s Viewpoint. He will
deal with the practical aspects of
a law practice. All members of the
Student Body and especially the
pre-law students are invited to at-
tend. A reception will follow the
lecture in the student lounge of
the Law School.

 

Seminar Members Chosen
Dr. Borden Announces

Yesterday, Dr. Ross Borden, head
of the English Department, an-
nounced that the English Seminar
Committee had elected seven new
members. “Two of the appointments,”
he said, “were given to members of
the faculty. The five remaining
members were selected from the stu-
dent body.”

Dr. Cecil Eby and Dr. Francis
Drake are the new faculty mem-
bers of the Seminar Committee.
The new student members are as
follows: James McClung, Bob Al-
len, Ray Robrecht, Ken Kleeman,
and Meade Christian.

The English Seminar Committee,
which is a self-perpetuating body,
selected the new members on the
basis of their interest in Seminar
Committee work. In the future, they
will help decide which speakers will
be invited, help in arrangement, and

 

actively participate in seminar pro-
grams.

 

 

Oder added two stipulations to
the debate. First, that there be a
completely non-partisan moderator,
and then that his opponent from the
Democratic camp inform him as to
the general items in the campaign
that he wished to challenge.

Oder said, “I am ready and will-
ing to argue any point in the cur-
rent campaign, be it foreign affairs,
domestic affairs or other issues. All
I ask is that the subject matter
under debate be agreed upon by
both sides. I hope that some inter-
ested Democrats answer my chal-
lenge, as I feel that such a debate
might serve to point out some im-
portant differences in the Democratic
and Republican platforms.

J-School Names
Placement Head

John K. Jennings, an instructor
in Journalism at Washington and
Lee University, has been named the
University’s first placement counsel-
or for the University’s Lee Memor-
ial Journalism Foundation.

The 26-year-old faculty member
was appointed by Professor O. W.
Riegel, head of W&L’s department
of journalism and communications.

 

Jenning’s duties will include
recommendation of suitable stu-
dents and graduates for the po-
sitions open with newspaper, ra-
dio, and television. Jennings will
conduct a continuous job oppor-
tunity survey of communications
media.

The placement counselor’s duties
will also include the establishment
and maintenance of a current jour-
nalism alumni file.

Jennings will work in cooperation
with the University’s Placement
Bureau, headed by James D. Farrar.

A member of the Washington and
Lee faculty since September 1959,
Jennings served with the Armed
Forces Radio in Germany from 1956
to 1958. He was a member of the
staff of the Roanoke radio station
WDBJ for one year before coming
to Washington and Lee. He received
a bachelor of arts degree in Jour-
nalism from Washington and Lee in
1956,
Page 2

THE RING-TUM PHI

Che Ring-tum Phi

Nixon-Lodge Ticket Best For The U.S.

The Tuesday Edition of the Ring-tum Phi endorses the
Nixon-Lodge ticket in the 1960 presidential campaign. We
feel that the Republican ticket offers the candidates who are
most qualified to deal with both the domestic and international
problems which face the United States today. We also feel
that the Republican platform comes closer to espousing con-
servative principles of government which the Democratic Party
in the “Solid South” has stood for in the past and is fighting
for in the present.

The Republican candidates are most qualified to govern.
Vice-President Nixon has served in the lower house of our
national government. He has been Vice-President of the United
states for eight years. He has experience which his opponent
unquestionably lacks. We feel that his years as vice-president
have been a good conditioner for the struggle that lies ahead of
the next President of the United States.

Henry Cabot Lodge has been our representative to the
United Nations, where he led the fight of the free world against
Communist domination. By virtue of his position in the UN,
Lodge is probably the best informed man in the nation in the
field of international politics. He will be a more able adviser
to the President during this age of intenational strain than will
the Democratic vice-presidential candidate.

The “religious issue” is very real in this campaign. It is
so real that leaders of the Democratic Party have seen fit to
ally themselves with some of our outstanding religious leaders
in anti-bigotry societies, and even to hint that those who vote
the Republican ticket are religious bigots. The Democratic
candidate’s religion has become a political football which the
party’s leaders are determined to carry to pay dirt.

We turn now to the Democratic platform. That platform
which guarantees freedom of speech, press, assembly, etc., but
which denys the people of the states to the right to enact “right
to work laws.”

The platform which was adopted in Los Angeles and
which both of the Democratic candidates have unqualifiedly
endorsed rejects the principle that “the right to join a union”
presupposes “the right not to join a union,” in order to get
a job. That principle which seems to us to be one of the bases
of individual liberty in our country has been officially rejected
by the national Democratic Party and apparently by its candi-
dates and most of its informed supporters.

Mr. Nixon and his running mate as well as the Republican
platform have made it clear that they will do everything in their
power to protect the rights of the individual citizen and to as-
sure the people of this country of a government under which
private enterprise and initiative will not be swallowed up by
the federal leviathan.

Concerning the labor issue, the Democratic candidate has
said, “The American labor movement wants for America what
I want for America. .. The American labor movement op-
poses what I oppose. Their goals are the goals of all America,
and their enemies are the enemies of all progress.”

He has stated further that the interstate nature of com-
merce and industry makes “uniformity” advisable in laws per-

eral instead of state regulation of “right to work laws,” schools, |
etc.

Uniformity, especially compulsory uniformity, is a liberal
word. Liberals don’t want diffusion of power as a curb against
absolutism. It cramps their style. They want a government in
Washington that will implement the Reuther-Schlesinger ideol-
ogy to regulate the social, educational, and economic life of the
nation.

Mr. Nixon said in his Capitol speech, “if you believe in that,
don’t vote for us.”

The Democratic stand on the Quemoy-Matsu issue has
been modified somewhat in the past week. We still believe that
the stand that they (the Democratic candidates) have taken
is weak. We believe that these islands should be defended, and
that preparation should be made for their defense before they
are attacked.

We do not understand this talk of defending only those
countries that we are committed to defend against Communism.
We believe that, as long as any country in the free world is
willing to accept or to solicit our aid in fighting the creeping
spread of Communism, we should do all that is within our
power to support them. It is more than a matter of principle.
It is a matter of life or death; the life or death of the free world
and the democratic principle.

Hitler fed on Europe in small bites. It is the avowed pur-
pose of International Communism to dominate the free world
by whatever means possible. Every inch of free land and every
free man that falls within the iron or bamboo curtains is another
inch or another man toward the fulfillment of that purpose.
Peace at any time is not worth Communist domination of the
countries of the world. The US should draw the line and be
ready to defend any inch of free territory that wishes to re-
main free.

It should also be remembered that Quemoy and Matsu
are excellent observation posts from which activity on the
Chinese mainland can be watched. The Quemoy group domi-
nates the approach to the important Communist port of Amory,
while the Matsu group can partly obstruct the sea approaches

or at least neutralized before a successful Communist attack
could be made on Nationalist-held Taiwan.

Mr. Nixon has maintained throughout the campaign that
he would defend these islands from Communist aggression.
We believe he is absolutely right.

We are strongly convinced that Mr. Nixon and his run-
ning mate are the best men to lead America for the next four
years because of their abilities, their experience in high office
and in international affairs, and because of the stands that they
have taken and the opinions that they have expressed through-
out the campaign.

We trust that the American voter will not be overwhelmed
by the popular appeal of the Democratic candidate. He has
been described in a campaign speech by a Democratic senator of
some renown as a cross between Elvis Presley and FDR. From
anything resembling Elvis in the White House, Good Lord

to the port of Foochow. Both groups would have to be captured :

Each issue in the 1960 Presidential campaign must be put

in its place as a token of the larger issues dividing the nation
and the world. Most voters will find that the campaign will not
entail any immediate gain or loss for them. They will, therefore,
base their vote on their conscious or unconscious attitude to-
ward these larger issues.
We are looking for two things as we follow this campaign:
each candidate’s attitude toward the the relationship between
government and the individual; and each candidate’s attitude
toward the relationship between the United States and the rest
of the world.

Senator John Kennedy and the liberal wing of the Demo-
cratic party, beginning with the degrading spectacle of the Dem-
ocratic convention at Los Angeles, have shown every willingness
to steamroller their ideas, right or wrong, through whatever
obstacles encountered. The Democrats are avowedly more
ready to have the federal government step in where they con-
sider the work of private interests or state and local govern-
ments inadequate.

We fear and decry this trend toward big government. Per-
haps free enterprise and capitalism do not produce the rate of
growth the Russians claim, perhaps every single man, woman
and child is not assured of material comfort, perhaps we have
lost prestige in the world. But we are free and we are capital-
istic.

We would rather see the United States remain a bastion of
freedom and of capitalism.

Yet every additional tax, every power taken by the fed-
eral government from the states and localities, every new beau-
rocrat ensconced behind a desk in Washington, every new con-
cession to the power of organized labor pounds one more nail
into the coffin of individualism and capitalism.

Freedom and capitalsm are not unmitigated gifts. They
presuppose a certain courage and force of character. They de-
mand the individual choose his own way and choose to discipline
himself to follow that way. The frontiersman has long been
an American symbol of these qualities. Is this self-sufficient and
proud character to be driven from our heritage by the doctri-
naire “‘New Frontiersman,” out of the Ivy League? Mr. Nixon
knows what it is to succeed by dint of one’s own talent and ini-
tiative and he knows how to keep this ideal alive.

Mr. Kennedy tells us that United States prestige has de-
clined. But let us remember that prestige is relative. We could
not help but lose some prestige as other nations began to
rival our wealth. But let us consider what type of prestige we
would have.

WE HAVE LOST THE COLD WAR IF WE RESORT
TO INCREASING CENTRALIZATION OF GOVERN.
MENT TO “BEAT” THE RUSSIANS. The American peo-
ple must somehow find the strength within themselves as indi-
viduals to make the sacrifices necessary to assure the survival of
democracy. Now is the time for the generation of men now in
college to commit themselves to lead the United States toward
the finest achievement in government, economic life, science,
literature, art—in every facet of life. Let us prove these are
goals worth achieving as free individuals, in the service of de-

 

 

taining to labor relations management. Uniformity means fed-

Webster Unabridged

 

Research Fund Holds Great Promise For W&L

deliver us.

By HUGO HOOGENBOOM
One of the basic differences be-

mocracy.

Kennedy Backs Over-Centralized Gov.

the fullest extent, and to lever more
power out of the people.

said, though, the argument is in-
conclusive. The question is, in

By ED WEBSTER

The $300,000 Robert E. Lee Re-
search Fund, announced Friday by
President Cole, appears to be a
milestone in the academic history of
W&L. In addition to being the uni-
versity’s first large research allot-

ment of a general nature, it carries |

with it some interesting concepts of
educational philosophy.

Beginning this year, students and
professors will be able to apply for
funds for research projects, experi-

 
 

——

 

 

 

 

 

 

ments, and seminars. The students—
from freshmen on up—will probably
undertake their projects with a
specific professor, but in some cases
may work independently.

Ultimately, every student at W&L
may feel a direct or indirect effect
from the fund.

The projects will be of three
kinds: those conducted by faculty
members with student assistance;
those conducted primarily by stu-
dents; and interdepartmental pro-

 

 

 

 

 

 

grams. A faculty committee will
administer the fund.

As a starting point, 15 faculty pro-
jects are already under considera-
tion. If, for instance, a history pro-
fessor wants to explore a certain bat-
tle, he might ask competent students
to help him glean pertinents facts
from the mountainous piles of avail-
able material. Or a science profes-
sor, wishing to use a new experi-
mental device in his lab, might ask
a student to help him construct it.
These student assistants, besides get-
ting a first-hand look at research,
would be paid out of the fund.

In allowing some projects to be
originated by the students them-
selves, the fund aims to give them
a taste of intensive research while
they are still undergraduates.
As long as a project is useful to
the student himself—and this is an

(Continued on page 4)

 

tween Republican and Democratic
economic thought is the extent of
government control of the economic
affairs of this country. Unquestion-
ably we have a great deal of control
now, and the quarrel is whether we
should extend it still still further.
Senator Kennedy feels we must in
order to maintain and increase our
superiority vis-a-vis the Soviet
Union. Vice-President Nixon holds
that we can do this without increas-
ing centralized government planning,
etc. Both can quote statistics that
support them. The difference, how-
ever, is not whose statistics we be-
lieve, but what me must do as the
United States.

Comparisons in this field are
bootless, because we start from a
much higher plateau than does the
USSR, so their growth rate must
appear to be spectacular. As I

 

We

 

LEELA ELLE OEM ody
Feature

SEALTEST
Dairy Products

“To get the best get Sealtest”

over twenty different products in addition to
delicious Sealtest ice cream

Block and Crushed Ice

Your favorite mixes—lIce Cold

x
Maple-Rock Distributors, Inc.

Phone HO 3-2168
Se eof odo oe of ode of of oe oka eof of oe whe oe fe se oe of oe whe oe ade ofa of of feof of ae of fe fe fe afe ole of ole eof of ole fe oe ode

 

4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
*
4
4
4
4
4
4
+,
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
‘
4
%
4

De i ad

competition with the Russians we
must not make the mistake of be-
coming like them. What good can
it be to best them and end up with
a society which cannot be distin-
guished from theirs.

And like theirs in every respect,
for it is the contention of the con-
servatives that freedom is indivisible,
that political freedom cannot be sep-
arated from economic freedom. This
was true in the days when the big
corporations held sway and _ the
workingman was pretty much polit-
ically impotent. He who controls
our bread controls our lives, and it
would be stupid to entrust a party of
a government with this power just
because we think they would not
abuse the trust. In the history of
governments, it has always come
about that power, once granted or
seized has eventually been used to

 

In essence, Senator Kennedy is
asking the people of the United
states to entrust their lives to him,
in return for which he will keep
them fed, housed and amused to
the extent which he and his ad-
visers think is good. The remainder

(Continued on page 4)

Che Ring-tum Phi
Tuesday Edition

The Ring-tum Phi is published Tues-
day and Friday during the college year.
It is printed a, the Journalism Labor-
atory Press, Washington and Lee Uni-
versity. The mailing address is Box
899, Lexington, Va,

Entered ag second class matter Sep-
tember 20, 1946 at the Post Office, Lex-
ington, Va., under the act of March
8, 1878.

National Advertising Representative:
The National Advertisers Service, Inc.,
420 Madison Ave., New York, N.Y.

Ce Rosewell Page, III
Business Manager.............. Huntley Biggs

 

 

 

 

 

ROCKBRIDGE LAUNDRY

and
Dry Cleaners

Shirts Transparently Wrapped
for Freshness
*
AGENTS:

Fraternities, Dorms and Co-op

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

THE RING-TUM PHI

Page 3

 

Generals Tie Johns Hopkins; Frosh Win

Generals Find Blue Jays Tough

As An Offensive

By JACK COVER

The Five-Star Generals remained
unbeaten Saturday as they battled
the Johns Hopkins Blue Jays to an
8-8 tie, before a large Parents’
Day crowd. The tie assured Wash-
ington and Lee of its best season since
1951, when the Generals’ subsidized
team compiled a 6-4 record. Wash-
ington and Lee’s string stands at
six, and Johns Hopkins’ streak is
now eight, with both teams keeping
their undefeated records intact.

The Generals were hardpressed
in gaining the tie as the Blue
Jays completely dominated the
play in the second half. Their
drives led by Henry Ciccarone,
were stopped many times by pen-
alties, fumbles, and bad breaks.

The game opened with Washing-
ton and Lee’s Jim Russ taking the)
kickoff for twenty-five yards to the!
forty. The Generals were unable to
move the ball and had to kick on
fourth down. The Blue Jays then be-
gan to march with Ciccarone doing |
most of the running from his tail-|
back position. Bob Funkhouser |
stalled the drive with an intercep- |
tion on the Generals’ 12.

 

Early in the second quarter, the |
Generals began to move towards |
their only score. The crucial play
of this drive was a screen pass
from Suttle to Charlie Gummey
for eight yards and a first down.
Hickey, who was playing his first
complete game of the season, took
the ball around end for 26 yards
to the 2. Hickey ran it over for
the score with ten minutes left
to play in the quarter. Keesee add- |
ed the two points on a slice off left |
tackle. |

The Blue Jays took the kick-off |
and started their scoring march from |
their 30-yard line. Led by Ciccarone |
and Harry Leet, Johns Hopkins drove |
to the two, where Ciccarone scored
on a run around left end. On the
same type of play, Ciccarone added
the two extra points. The Generals |
then moved down to the 30-yard
line, before John Doud intercepted
a pass and brought it back to the
W&L 48-yard line. The half ended)
after the next play with the score |
tied 8-8.

The second half saw Washington
and Lee on the defensive. The Blue
Jays took the kick and marched

 

 

Green Valley Motel

One Mile North on
U. S. Highway No. 11

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA
HO 3-2195

 

 

 

Peeseeeeesesereeeeensses
; THE NEW
A
$

White Top

Restaurant
*

eee epee eee eeey

:

A personal invitation
B to the

: Students

"
*
*
es
%
*
%
*%

Try our delicious foods
Route 60 East

Deed eente ote rte rte eee se rdeoote ode ote oe sterte

 

VARSITY
BILLIARD
ACADEMY

Catering
To Students

Corner of

Washington and Jefferson

PEELE EEE EEE EEE EES

Football Squad

to the Generals’ 42, where they
were forced to punt. Johns Hop- °
kins recovered the ball a few plays
later—on our 25 when Suttle’s lat-
eral was deflected. A clipping pen-
alty against the Blue Jays halted
this drive and their punt went out
of bounds on the Generals’ 2-yard
line. On second down, Doug Mar-
tin quick kicked from the 4 out to
the Blue Jays’ 49-yard line.

The Blue Jays then put together
a sustained effort and drove down
to the Generals’ one. Again it was
Ciccarone’s running and passing to
Derwin Kim that spearheaded the
drive. With the ball inches away
from the goal and second down, Leet
fumbled and Suttle recovered on
Washington and Lee’s four. Martin
brought the ball out to the 15, and
then Dan Blain got away a 40-yard
punt.

The Blue Jays made their final
drive to the Generals’ 18. Cic-
carone found Kim in the open and
threw a touchdown pass, but the
play was called back because of °

(Continued on page 4)

Golf Team Berths
Are Announced

In tryouts held last week for the
| golf team, the field was narrowed
| down to the top nine men in a qual-
|ifying round of thirty-six holes.
| Those who qualified were Jack Var-
daman, captain; Tom Couch; Ronald
Stewart; Charles Vance; Ned Olds;
Ronald Lee; Bob Bridewell; Warren
Hughes; and Steve Henry.

Coach Twombly stated that hav-
ing the tryouts in the fall would
enable the team to have more prac-
tices under favorable weather con-
ditions, and he could be sure of |
the top six men for the team by
opening of the season in March,

The team is expected to compile
an even better record than last year’s
team which had a 4-2-2 record.

Radio Hospital

*
Radio, TV, Phonograph
Sales and Service

*

HO 3-3531

 

 

 

 

 

 

*

 

Quarterback Steve Suttle (12) tries to get away from a Johns Hopkins

*

tackler in Saturday’s tie.

 

Tom Goodwin Is Named Ring-tum Phi Player-of-Week

Johns Hopkins, in last Saturday’s
game provided the Five-Star Gener-
als with what will probably be the
best test of their defense all season.
The fact that the Blue Jays were
held to a tying score can be atttribut- |
ed party to W&L’s line play and)
especially to the performance of;
Tom Goodwin, who earns this week’s |
title as player of the week.

Tom, a 195-pound guard from Roa-
noke, has seen action on the Gener-
als’ team ever since his freshman
year and has been a_ hard-hitting

 

| member of the line every year. This
year he is a member of what has
been termed the “Big Four” guards
which have proved to be an effective

(Continued on page 4)

 

; MYERS
HARDWARE
* COMPANY

 

 

 

   

 

Member

 

   

STUDENTS ACCOUNTS INVITED HERE

BANK:

F.D.LC.

 

 

 

Or do they just go? Ifs
specially for men who

 

 

 

 

wsScearR y 7
IT'S Ceean (1°S

* VASELI

    

do girls go to your head?

o try ‘Vaseline’ Hair Tonic—made
use water with their hair tonic

(and who doesn’t!) ‘Vaseline’ Hair Tonic’s 100% pure,
light grooming oil replaces oil that water removes. It
will not evaporate — will stay clear and clean. Your hair
looks great, stays neater longer. Just a little does a lot!

VASELINE nar tonic

NE’ 16 A REGISTERED TRADEMARK GF CHESEBROUGH-PONO'S ING,

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

AMA Defeated

The freshman football team trav-
eled to Fort Defiance, Virginia, last
Friday and captured their third vic-
tory in four starts from Augusta
Military Academy, 23-13.

A.M.A. jolted the Baby Gener-
als as they struck for a touch-
down on the second play of the
game. The score came on a fifty-
three yard pass play from quarter-
back Trott to end Blaylock. The
Washington and Lee offense sput-
tered during the first half, but a
hard charging defensive line led
by center Charlie Savage kept the
pressure on Augusta. Bruce Law-
ton from his right tackle slot
crashed into the A.M.A. backfield
and blocked an Allison punt out
of the end zone for a two-point
safety. Augusta tallied again with
a pass from Trott this time to
Gevreign to give the home team
a 13-2 halftime edge.

In the second half the determined
Baby Generals took the kickoff and
marched eighty yards to pay dirt.

(Continued on page 4)

 

The Coaches Corner
Coach Views
Hopkins, H-S

A tie is not as good as a win but
it is certainly a great deal better than
a loss. There were times during the
fourth quarter when we would have
been glad to settle for a tie but then
a few minutes later it looked as
though we might pull off a last min-
ute win. Except for a missed tackle
here and a missed block there we
might have done just that. How-
ever, the Johns Hopkins people have
quite a few “if” and “mights” to play
around with too.

We were very impressed with the
clean hard play of the Blue Jays.
This kind of play is a credit to the
players and coaches of the Hopkins
team. We think they can say the
same thing of our boys.

Terry Fohs was in on 23 tackles
and along with Jim Hickey and
Steve Suttle shone for our Gener-
als.

It is Tommy Goodwin who is my
unsung star for the game. Tommy
hobbled through practice last week
but mended well enough to get a

(Continued on page 4)

 

 

   

On Compus Vox San
(Author of ‘I Was a Teen-age Dwarf’’, ‘The Many
Loves of Dobie Gillis’’, ete.)

    
 

 

A FRAT TO REMEMBER

Every year, as we all know, the Benevolent and Protective
Order of Collegiate Fraternities awards a highly coveted prize
to the fraternity house which, in its judgment, has done the
most to promote and enhance the fraternity way of life. The
prize this year—eight hundred pounds of white putty—goes to
the Signa Phi Nothing chapter of the South Dakota College
of Dentistry and Renaissance Art.

The award this year is exceptionally richly deserved, for the
Signa Phi Nothing house is the very model of all a fraternity
should be. It is, first of all, a most attractive house physically.
The outside walls are tastefully covered with sequins. Running
along the upper story is a widow’s walk, with a widow stationed
every three feet. Moored to the chimney pot is the Graf Zeppelin.

Indoors, the house gives an impression of simple, casual charm.
The chapter room is furnished in homey maple and chintz,
with a dash of verve provided by a carp pool three hundred feet
in diameter. A waterspout rises from the center of the pool with
the housemother bouncing on the top.

Members’ rooms are gracious and airy and are provided with
beds which disappear into the wall—permanently. Each room
also has a desk, a comfortable chair, a good reading lamp, and
a catapult for skeetshooting. Kidney-shaped desks are avail-
able for kidney-shaped members.

Perhaps the most fetching feature of the house are the packs
of Marlboros stacked in heaps wherever one goes. If one wishes
to settle back and enjoy a full-flavored smoke, one needs only
to reach out one’s hand in any direction and pick a pack of
Marlboros—soft pack or flip-top box—and make one’s self com-
fortable with a filtered cigarette with an unfiltered taste—that
triumph of the tobacconist’s art, that paragon of smokes, that
acme of cigarettes, that employer of mine— Marlboro!

 

The decor, the grace, the Marlboros, all combine to make
Signa Phi Nothing a real gas of a fraternity. But a fraternity
is more than things; it is also people. And it is in the people
department that Signa Phi Nothing really shines.

Signa Phi Nothing has among its members the biggest
BMOCs on the entire campus of the South Dakota College of
Dentistry and Renaissance Art. There is, for instance, William
Makepeace Sigafoos, charcoal and bun chairman of the annual
Stamp Club outing. Then there is Dun Rovin, winner of last
year’s All-South Dakota State Monopoly Championship, 136
Pound Class. Then there is Rock Schwartz, who can sleep stand-
ing up. Then there is Tremblant Placebo, who can crack pecans
in his armpits. Then there is Ralph Tungsten, who went bald
at eight.

But why go on? You can see what a splendid bunch of chaps
there is in Signa Phi Nothing, and when one sees them at the
house in the cool of the evening, all busy with their tasks—
some picking locks, some playing Jacks-or-Better, some clipping
Playboy—one’s heart fills up and one’s eyes grow misty, and
one cannot but give three cheers and a tiger for Signa Phi
Nothing, fraternity of the year!

© 1960 Max Shulman
* * *

And while you’re cheering, how about a huzzah for the new-
est member of the Marlboro family of fine cigarettes—unfil-
tered, mild, delightful Philip Morris king-size Commander!
Have a Commander—welcome aboard!
Page 4

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

Parents’ Weekend Highlights

(Continued from page 1)
Goodwyn, the ODK president; Dean |
Pusey; Dean Adams; Dean Light;
Dean Gilliam; and Dr. Cole. Dr.
Sprunt gave the invocation and Mr.
L. P. Nelson presided over the as-
sembly.

Over eleven hundred persons at-
tended the pre-game luncheon in
the Evans Dining Hall.

The Washington and Lee Generals
tied the powerful Johns Hopkins
team 8-8 in a hard-fought battle on
the gridiron. One of the most ex-
citing games of the season, the Johns
Hopkins encounter added a touch of
color to the weekend and also ex-
tended an unusually long undefeat-
ed streak for the Generals. For the
first time in years, the officials had
to delay a W&L game because the
fans were making too much noise.

During the latter part of Satur-
day afternoon, the parents were

 

Kennedy and Centralization
(Continued from page 2)

of the people’s income will be
used to attain national purpose
which Mr. Kennedy and his friends
will work out some time after the
election.

If the people of the United States
want to abdicate their lives and
freedom to the goals and purposes of
the hierarchy of the Democratic
Party, that is their affair. People
have given up before. But they
should at least know what the choice
is, so they cannot later say they
were duped into giving away their
freedoms.

 

Hopkins Finale
(Continued from page 3)

illegal formation against Johns
Hopkins. The next play Ciccarone
again found Kim open, but this
time Kim caught the ball outside
the end zone. After an incomplete
pass, the Generals took over.

Suttle was in complete charge as he
took a fourth down gamble and
gained six yards from a punt forma-
tion for a first down on the 48. After
another first down, Suttle picked up
eleven yards around left end to the
19. On the final play Suttle, finding
no receiver in the open, tried to run
but was thrown for a loss as the
game ended with the score 8-8.

 

 

STANLEY WARNER

STATE

a1) [ep ce)
|_HOBART 23-3424 |

 

 

WED. through SAT.

2-4 p.m, 7-9 p.m.

The world
famed
novel is
on the

  
 
   
   

starring
TREVOR HOWARD: DEAN STOCKWELL
WENDY HILLER-MARY URE

HEATHER SEARS
DIRECTED BY JACK CARDIFF
SCREENPLAY BY GAVIM LAMBERT and LES, CLARKE

 

 

 

 

entertained at their sons’ fraterni-
ty houses. The Campus Club held
a meeting for parents in the Stu-
dent Union. At 8:30 Saturday night,
the Glee Club, directed by Mr.
Robert Stewart, gave a concert for
the parents in Doremus Gymna-
sium.

Fifty-one per cent of the fresh-
men were represented by their par-
ents. Of the upper classes, 40 per
cent of the sophomore parents, 36
per cent of the junior parents, and
35 per cent of the senior parents
attended the weekend. In the law
school, 9 per cent of the students
were represented by their parents.

 

Webster

(Continued from page 2)

important concept—there is no re-
quirement that it be useful to
others. If a student learns the fun-
fundamental methods of good re-
search, and if he captures some of
the satisfaction of uncovering or
synthesizing knowledge, the pro-
gram will serve its purpose.

When this research program is put
into effect, the university will be one
step closer to realizing its full po-
tential.

 

Freshman Football
(Continued from page 3)

Halfback Stuart Yoffe, co-captain
Henry Sackett, and fullback Sid But-
ler led the march with co-captain
John McDaniel directing the play
from the quarterback position. Yoffe
topped off the third period with a
twenty-yard jaunt off tackle. Mike
Jenkins added the extra point mak-
ing the score Augusta 13, W&L 9.

Halfback Yoffe hit again in the
third period with an off tackle play
after a sixty-yard march which put
the Baby Generals ahead to stay.

In the final period Butler drove
through the middle from six yards
out and then carried for the two
extra points to give the visitors a
commanding 23-13 lead.

The Freshmen play a strong, well
coached, undefeated Ferrum Junior
College squad this Friday.

VwRic

TUES.-WED.

The Crucible

Starring
SIMORE SIGNORET

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

IDEAL
BARBER SHOP

QUICK SERVICE

ie Me Be Be Me Be Ba te Bad
“see ee eee

 

 

he ae alte Me aM, Me Be He se Me se site se sta she site ate ate ale
Tet EO eS Se ee eee

 

 

 

BROWN’S
CLEANING
WORKS
We call for

and deliver
HO 3-2013 14 Randolph St.

 

 

 

For those extra pieces

of
FURNITURE

for your room
see our stock
before buying

B
VARNER AND POLE

Player Of The Week

(Continued from page 3)

deterent to the enemy’s offensive
game.

In the game against Johns Hopkins,
this weekend, Tom made ten or
eleven individual tackles and suc-
ceeded in breaking up the Blue
Jay’s strong offensive play a num-
ber of times.

Aertetorte stented feterete heretofore orto

 

Seer petro Pere e eee ree nr

Shirt Service as You Like it
Quality Cleaning and Pressing
UNIVERSITY CLEANERS

 

Coaches Corner

(Continued from page 3)
starting call. His slashing tackles
finally forced Johns Hopkins to run
the other side while he was in the
game.

Work has begun on our game with
Hampden-Sydney. We will be back
to playing a “T” team. Unless I miss
my guess our boys really want this
game. Coach Mac

The First National Bank

of Lexington
*
has special checking accounts

for students

 

 

 

 

The Southern Inn

Cordially invites you to make this your headquarters for good food

*
HO 3-3622
* $ Here you get the best food for the most reasonable prices
t Our Specialties:
“Your Campus Neighbors” z P :
* Steaks, Chicken, Country Ham, and the best sandwiches
feof oe of of of obo fe of ode of fe ode fe oe oe oe ofe oe oe of oe of oe we of oe oe of feof oe ofr ofe fe oe oe oe oe oe ake ake ofr of ole ole of ofe oe in town

 

SUNDAY

Ted’s Steak House

Finest Foods
Choice Meats

w

Route 60 Buena Vista

Meet your friends here

 

 

 

Open a convenient student Checking account
TODAY

at

Rockbridge N ational Bank

Member Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation

DINNERS

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Welcome to One and All

Happy Openings

For Sporting Goods

For Camera and Photographic Supplies
For Gifts

For Hobbies

For Toys

For Sight and Sound

Stereos—T V’s—Transistor Radios

For College Novelties and Gifts

For Your Friendly Shopping

Pres Brown’s

14 West Washington Street

 

 

 

turned on their radio...
2 CONVICTS HAVE
ESCAPED FROM
STATE PRISON AND 4

AN’ RUSTLE

 

SHS SEEEAE SEEDED EES
* +
* White’s Music?
: ite’s USIC ¢
o
: S :
: tore :
z (Opposite State Theater) =
* eg
*
: ? :
: ;
_uiR f
: Phonographs—Hi-Fi :
: 2
: Expert Repair Service :
+
: ;: %
cy %
* . ; %
* 5 W. Nelson St. Lexington, Va. *
+
: HO 3-3522 :
+ &
+ *
seogeofeteoteefeofeoteofeoeeteotesteoeteedeobete rte rtecdeodeoteo®

US UPSOME F
GRuB!

Campers Bob and Pete have just

 

Pete puts a
rock at each
SURE. T'LLGETA side of the
COUPLE OF ROCKS SR? ee

SHUT DAT
(( TING OFF!

 

Me

 

  
 
 
 

——— 7
When the state
troopers arrive .-- Ii

Viceroys gottit..
at both ends

EXPLODING Jal
iP wes... =
iy YOU SURE THINK
FOR YOURSELVES!
TLL BET THATS

i y
a
eo.

i

L_ WHY YOU'RE
VICEROY

 
  

GOT
THE

 

 

 

 

 

Note: Bob and Pete knew that rocks in a
stream often take up water; when these
rocks are heated, the water turns to steam
-and the rocks explode!

 

VICEROYS GoT IT...
AT BOTH ENDS!

GOT THE FILTER,

GOT THE BLEND!

   

 

© 1960, BROWN & WILLIAMSON TOBACCO CORP
>

 

FRIDAY
Edition

Che King-tum Phi

Washington and Lee Semi-Weekly Newspaper

FRIDAY
Edition

 

Volume LXI

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA, OCTOBER 28, 1960

Number 13

 

Ciardi, Humphrey, Miller Are Glasgow Lecturers

Towler Elected President
Of Troubadour Theatre

 

Mock Trial Set
For November 12

By DAN BELL

The Law School’s Mock Trial will
be held Thursday, Nov. 11, at 2 p.m.
in the Moot Court of the Law School.

Mock Trial chairman Rich Parsons
announce that the positions of judge
and court clerk and counsels for
the prosecution and defense have
been filled. The judge is Prof. Charles
V. Laughlin and the court clerk is
Tim Ireland.

Attorneys

The prosecuting attorney is Hugo
Hoogenboom, co-counselors are
Leigh Ansell and Tom Feazell. As-
sistant counsels are Bob Armstrong,
Malcolm Lassman, and Jim Ran-
dolph.

Bob McGuire is defense counsel,
Dick Barbour and John Paul are co-
counsels, and Dick Lang, Lyle Lut-

(Continued on page 4)

 

President Cole To Speak
To Florida Alumni Groups

President Fred C. Cole will leave
Sunday for a four-day speaking tour
in Florida. He will speak at alumni
meetings in Miami, Palm Beach and
Orlando.

President Cole is scheduled to ad-
dress the 71st annual meeting of the
Association of American Medical
Colleges Monday in Hollywood, Fla.

In Miami Beach

In Miami, Dr. Cole will speak to a
dinner meeting of alumni, parents
and special guests at the LaGorce
Country Club, Miami Beach. Wed-
nesday, he will speak to a similar
gathering at the Coral Beach Club
in Palm Beach.

The president’s final talk will be

(Continued on page 4)

 

 

Three professional writers will visit

' the Washington and Lee University

campus between Nov. 28 and Dec. 9
under the auspices of the Glasgow

_ Endowment Fund.

 

John Ciardi

 

McThenia, Law Student,
Authors Geology Work

An intermediate law student at
Washington and Lee University is
the author of an article in the recent
annual issue of the Billings Geologi-
cal Society Guidebook.

Andrew W. “Uncas” McThenia,
Jr., of Alderson, West Va., has writ-
ten an article entitled “Geology of
the Madison River Canyon Area
North of Ennis, Mont.” for the na-
tionally distributed guidebook.

Research for the article was done
under the auspices of Dr. Edgar
Spencer, head of the Washington
and Lee geology department, and
Columbia University. McThenia’s in-
vestigation in the Montana area is
part of a project Dr. Spencer is do-
ing for the National Science Founda-
tion.

A Phi Beta Kappa graduate of

(Continued on page 4)

Welcome To

The Four Freshmen, Ray Eberle,
And TNT Tribble In Center Ring

By PETER ALFORD
Staff Reporter

Ray Eberle, The Four Freshmen,
T.N.T. Tribble and “The Greatest
Show on Earth” all are combining
to make 1960 Openings most success-
ful in the series of dance sets. A
cocktail party, the formal dance,
Saturday afternoon’s concert and an
informal dance that evening will
highlight the weekend.

Openings starts this afternoon with
the cocktail party given by the Betas
in honor of Pearce Hardwick, pres-
ident of the dance set. The party is
being held in the Pine Room of the
Mayflower Inn beginning at 4:30.
The feature entertainment is T.N.T.
Tribble, accurately billed as “the
walking drummer.”

Eberle Plays

At the Openings Dance tonight,
Ray Eberle, who was so successful
at last year’s Openings, will play
again. Vice-Presidents in charge of
art decorations and _ construction,
John White, Pete Agelasto, and Bud-

 

dy Jones, have transformed somber
Doremus Gymnasium into a colorful
circus atmosphere. “The Greatest
Show on Earth” theme is furthered
by appropriate murals on two walls,
circus rings and animal cages.

A new feature this year, which
does away with the false ceiling used
in past dances, is the crepe paper
tent which adds to the carnival ef-
fect.

The figure will be directed by
vice-president Grantham Couch
and announced by Roy Goodwin. It
is composed of president Hardwick,
vice-presidents Charles Commander,
David Beale, Agelasto, White, Jones
and Couch. The Cotillion Club and
their dates will be presented at 10
p.m.

Four Freshmen Sing

The traditional Saturday afternoon
concert, from 4-5:30, will will be
presented by the nationally famous
quartet, The Four Freshmen. This
group, known for “In the Still of the
Night,” “Got a Date With an Angel,”

(Continued on page 4)

 

 

Miss Ebbie Emens
University of Alabama
With Grantham Couch

 

Miss Anne Middleton
Mary Baldwin College
With David Beale

Noted poet John Ciardi, novelist
William Humphrey and television-
screen writer Merle Miller will come
to Washington and Lee for a series

' of public addresses and classroom

discussions, according to Dr. A.
Ross Borden, Jr., chairman of the
Glasgow committee.

Second Use

The writers’ appearances mark the
second application of the “Arthur

; and Margaret Glasgow Endowment.”

The fund was established at Wash-
ington and Lee in 1957 “to promote
the art of expression by pen and

*tongue” at the university.

Ciardi, currently professor of Eng-
lish at Rutgers University, will be
here Nov. 28-30 as the first of the
Glasgow-sponsored visitors. Hum-
phrey will be here Nov. 30-Dec. 2
and Miller will speak Dec. 7-9

Ciardi

Ciardi, who serves as the poetry
editor of the Saturday Review of
Literature and director of the Bread
Loaf Writers’ Conference, has pub-
lished 12 books of poetry since 1940.
He achieved national recognition in
1954 for his translation of Dante’s
Inferno. He plans the publication of
a translation of Dante’s Purgatorio
next year.

He was born in Boston and re-
ceived his bachelor’s degree from
Tufts College in 1938. He did gradu-
ate work at the University of Mich-
igan. Ciardi was an assistant profes-
sor of history at Harvard University
between 1946 and 1953.

He is a fellow in the American

 

 

Famed Authors Appearing Nov. 28-Dec. 9; Miller |
Wrote ‘Kings Go Forth’; Ciardi Translated ‘Inferno’;
Humphrey Is noted For Novel ‘Home From The Hill’

Academy of Arts and Sciences and
the National Institute of Arts and
Letters. He holds six international
literary prizes.

Humphrey

Novelist Humphrey is the author of
Home from the Hill, published in
1957. He had a volume of short stories
published two years before his novel.

A native of Texas, Humphrey at-
tended both Southern Methodist Uni-
versity and the University of Texas.
He has served on the Bard College
faculty.

Miller

Miller is the author of four novels
and a non-fiction work, He has had
television credits with “Playhouse
90” and a NBC special production on
the life of Ira Hays. He wrote the
screen adaptations for “Rains of
Ranchipur” and “Kings Go Forth.”

A native of Iowa, Miller received
his B.A. from the University of
Iowa. During World War II, he was
a correspondent for Yank magazine.
He has worked for both Time and
Harpers magazines.

Miller expects to publish a novel
entitled A Gay and Melancholy
Sound this January. His other novels
include That Winter, A Secret Un-
derstanding, A Sure Thing and Re-
union.

Art and Public

Each of the writers will develop
themes centered around their par-
ticular fields. The whole series will
deal with the “problem of the arts
and the public.”

Novelist Katherine Anne Porter
was Washington and Lee’s first Glas-
gow professor. She was in residence
at the university during the Spring
semester of 1959.

(Continued on page 4)

 

 

By HENRY STROUSS

Troub Publicity Director
John Cotten Towler, a Delt senior
from Halifax, Virginia, was elected
president of the Troubadour Theatre
of Washington and Lee University
for its 1960-61 season at a recently
held meeting.

Towler has appeared in several
Troub productions in the past few
years. His most well-received char-
acterizations were the young student
in “Visit to a Small Planet” (1958),
and his performance as the Samur-
ai warrior in last season’s produc-
tion of “Rashomon.”

Other Activities

Towler has also been active in
other phases of school life. He has
been secretary of his fraternity, news
editor of the Ring-tum Phi, and a
member of the student library com-
mittee. He is currently serving the
W&L ROTC corps as Deputy Battle
Group Commander, a student ves-
teryman at Lee Memorial Episcopal
Church, and is for the second year,
announcer at the home football
games.

Towler’s principal duty as presi-
dent of the Troubs will be to serve
as liaison officer between the stu-
dent and faculty-administration of
the theatre group.

Other Officers

In the same election, Luke Kauf-
man, of Staten Island, N. Y., was
elected business manager. As such
he will handle the Troub financial
affairs as well as the front of the
house arrangements. Tim Morton, of
Roanoke, Va., was selected as sea-
sonal stage manager. He will super-
vise all physical aspects of the pro-

 

ductions and will assist the director
at rehearsals.

John Dunnell of Brooklyn, N. Y.,
will serve as Troub Personnel Di-
rector. His work will include acting
as secretary for the organization as

(Continued on page 4)

 

Sullins Group
Sings Te Deum
With Glee Club

By TOM EDWARDS
Glee Club Publicity Agent

The combined singing groups of
Sullins College, in Bristol, Va., and
Washington and Lee will sing Mon-
day, Nov. 7, in Doremus gymnasium.

Before the intermission, both
groups will sing a number of their
selections. Following the intermis-
sion, the groups will join to sing
Te Deum by Anton Bruckner. This
number was written from 1881 to
1885 and was first heard with full
orchestra on January 10, 1886.

Newbin Says

Famed critic Dika Newbin says of
Bruckner: “His religion was the
foundation of everything he said and
did.”

Thus in Te Deum we become
aware of the spiritual quality which
permeates the life of its composer.
Te Deum, in fact, was dedicated to
God and His glorification.

Columbia Records has this to say
of Bruckner: Te Deum in its record-
ing of his work:

(Continued on page 4)

“The Greatest Show On Earth”

Students Asked To Pay Money
On Dance Plans; Rules Outlined

 

Se ee *

Miss Reese Edmondson
Mary Baldwin College
With Peter Agelasto

 

Miss Jan Pfau
University of Ohio
With Pearce Hardwick

Miss Vicky Coxe
St. Mary’s College
With Charles Commander

 

*

James Vann, president of the
Washington and Lee Dance Board,
said last night that several cases of
failure to meet the obligation of pay-
ing for dance plans had not been met.

Due Oct. 15

The money for the plans was due
Oct. 15, and those who have still not
paid are advised to do so immedi-
ately by the Dance Board.

Vann also re-emphasized the fact
that the dance plans are not trans-
ferable, and any attempt to trans-
fer them would be considered a vio-
lation of the W&L honor code.

Formal Dance

The first dance tonight is from
nine to one. The dress is formal,
and no one will be admitted to the
dance floor unless they are in for-
mal attire.

At the Saturday afternoon con-
cert and the Saturday night dance,
from eight to 12, the dress is to be
conventional.

It is re-emphasized by the student
executive Committee that there is to

Miss Judith Shafer
Hollins College
With John White

 

be no drinking at any university
function.

Smoking on the dance floor has
also been banned this year due to
the hazard of fire.

All other rules of the university
are in effect this weekend, also, and
the students are urged by the stu-

 

The EC announced Monday
that dance plans are not transfer-
able. If an attempt is made to
transfer a plan, it will be consider-
ed as a breach of the school’s
honor code.

 

dent body officials to heed the rules.

Students are reminded that there
is to be no public drinking.

Caution is also urged for those
who are driving this weekend. The
staff of the Ring-tum Phi wishes to
join in the plea for caution. The
university has had only one serious
accident thus far this year, and it is
the hope of all that accidents be con-
fined to that one.

(Continued on page 4)

 

Miss Anne Shepard
Hollins College
With Buddy Jones
 

Page 2

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

Che KRing-tum Phi

Friday Edition
Member of Virginia Intercollegiate Press Association

 

Openings 1960

The social season of Washington and Lee formally begins
this evening as Openings Weekend gets underway. We are
anticipating excellent entertainment, and would like to thank
the University Dance Board for providing the set with the
Four Freshmen and Ray Eberle.

We would ask the student body to support their dance
board and encourage everyone to attend both the dances and

the concert.

 

By TOM RAINS
Associate Editor

Recently galavanting around the
grounds of Washington and Lee
campus has been a_ gargantuan
whilopo-whalopus, sucking up
leaves, stirring dust into whirlwinds,
and generally causing the greatest
amount of curiosity that has ever
stretched the imaginations of cam-
pus observers. The mysterious ma-
chine just seems to appear out of
nowhere, romp around yards creat-
ing its disturbance, and then it is
gone. It will again seem to appear
arbitrarily on the scene for a re-
peat performance only to arouse the
wonderment of onlookers. It just
seems to come and go and nobody
knows what it is.

Finally, yesterday, one staunch
soul sought bravely to find the origin
of such a roustabout; and success
of his efforts was found in the of-
fice of the Superintendent of Build-
ings and Grounds, Mr. Pat Brady.
Mr. Brady’s explanation of the
curiosity-producer follows and
should appease the troubled souls
who have allowed themselves to
become upset by this newfangled
thing.

Cost About $300

The technical name of the machine
is a Utility Harvester, and its orig-
inal purpose was to cut and harvest
green alfalfa and various other types
of hay. It is believed that the ma-
chine is an outdated model. It be-
longs to Baker Brothers, Inc., who
are dealers of farm equipment here
in the town of Lexington. Washing-
ton and Lee has not yet bought the
machine, but it probably will within
the next week. Mr. Brady estimated
the cost of the thing at about $300.

The primary purpose of the harv-
ester during the Fall months is to
pick up the leaves. And plans are
being made to use it for cutting
grass in the rough areas during the
summer months. These plans of
course will call for adaptation of the
machine for such purposes. The har-
vester was originally designed sole-
ly for the purpose which the name
implies. However, it is so built that
many purposes can be derived from
the original.

Many questions have arisen about
the machine in general, one of which
deals with the source of the bags
which flap in the breeze as the ma-
chine romps. They are “wool sacks”
originally used for shipping wool.
They hold approximately one bale
of leaves, and they are rented from
a local feed store. The means by
which the bags are attached to the
chute is a homemade affair along
with several other minor improve-
ments.

Another question is “What hap-
pened to the old process of leaf gath-
ering and what happened to all of
the men who had that wonderful

 

Washington and Lee’s very own Gargantuan Whilopo-Whalopus shown here
“raking” leaves in front of the Library.

Mystery Solved: Leaf Machine
Is Gigantic Whilopo-W halopus

 

rn tl rs

—Staff photo by Renshaw

job?” In the past the leaves have
been raked and baled up and carted
away. Several extra men were hired
during the season for the jceb; and
a hay-baler was borrowed from
a local farmer along with the farmer
himself and the was was thus done.
What happened to the leaves? Well,
many times the farmer took them for
his own use, but sometimes they were
dumped down the hill behind the
Chemistry annex and left to rot.
However, the problem arose that
W&L was running out of the com-
post which these rotten leaves pro-
duced and decided to replenish the
supply. Utilizing the idea of keeping
the leaves for producing compost,
some one in the Building and
Grounds Department hit upon the
idea of harvesting the leaves; and
now we have a leaf harvester.

Instead of having someone else
gathering up the leaves, Washing-
ton and Lee now does all the work.
They pile up the leaves to produce
compost, most of which already has
been used around the shrubbery at
the Commons.

As for what happened to the men
who used to have the great job of
raking, they are now employed in
other services in the same Depart-
ment of Building and Grounds.

Mr. Brady seemed to be rather
pleased with the machine as he has
great aspirations for it. As for a
comment on the questions which
had been asked about the eo:
he merely said, “It’s a big, ugly, noisy
machine.”

Che Ring-tum Phi
Friday Edition

The Ring-tum Phi is published Tues-
day and Friday during the college year.
It is printed wi the Journalism Labor-
arery Press, ashington and Lee Uni-
versity. The mailing address is Box
899, Lexington, Va,

Entered as second class matter Sep-
tember 20, 1946 at the Post Office, Lex-
ington, Va., under the act of March
8, 1878.

National Advertising Representative:
The National Advertisers Service, Inc.,
420 Madison Ave., New York, N.Y.

Editor-in-Chief................ Nathan Simpson
Business Manager.............. Huntley Biggs

 

Editorial Board
Managing Editor................ George Honts

Assistant Managing Editor.................
| Hine ae Roy Goodwin

  
  

 

Te ine ies Andy Nea
Sports Editor......... Bill Outman
Associate Editor... Tom Rains

 

Oe Be iiss Tom Jordan
Photography Editor..Clarence Renshaw

English ‘Rush Week’ Offers
Over One Hundred Choices

By JON B. McLIN
Friday Columnist

“Whenever two Englishmen meet,
a new club is born.” A more apt
quotation could not be cited to ex-
plain the maze of clubs and socie-
ties which, to most incoming fresh-
men, is at once the most awesome
and the most promising aspect of
Oxford life.

Most of the freshman’s first two
weeks at Oxford is occupied with the
local brand of rush week, during
which colleges representatives of all
the University clubs and societies
make ardent efforts to get his two and
sixpence (35c) and his name on the
rolls of their respective groups.

The total number of these groups
is probably 100, although the exact
number is truly incalculable, as
clubs are coming into and going out
of existence constantly. In addition,
the thirty-odd colleges have many
such organizations among themselves.

Every conceivable interest is rep-
resented by one or more of these
groups. Politics, religion, the arts,
individual faculties (language, his-
tory, sociology, etc.), national groups,

 

|

affairs each week, and the speakers
who come for them are generally
quite distinguished. Members of
Parliament, Ministers, and Civil
Service officials are frequent visi-
tors. In addition foreign dignitaries—
both in and out of the academic
world—are regularly featured.

Other activities of the groups in-
clude the pursuit of the special pur-
poses for which they were formed:
for dramatic groups, the production
of plays; for political groups, the
conduct of propaganda campaigns,
etc. There are also occasional social
functions with members of one or
more of the five women’s colleges.
In addition, some groups have facili-
ties—such as meeting rooms, librar-
ies, and bars—which may be used by
their members.

Many Display Enthusiasm

The range of zeal with which these
activities are pursued is consider-
able. Many groups display great en-
thusiasm and dedication. A notable
example of this are the liberal po-
litical groups and, in particular, the
Combined Universities Campaign for

sports, and special interests are all} Nuclear Disarmament, which sup-

represented by many different
groups.

Among the most slothful, unen-
thusiastic solicitations which many
freshmen received was that of the
Apathy Club, one of the more re-
cently formed groups. Asked about
its nature, a spokes replied: “We
have no meetings, no members, no
interests.”

Lists of Speakers

Standard operating procedure for
these clubs is to provide the new
members with a card listing the
speakers which that club will sponsor
during term. Each group averages
about one of these seminar-type

 

ported the unilateralist position re-
cently adopted by the Labor Party
Conference at Scarborough.

At the other extreme is a Wad-
ham College group called the Birk-
enhead Society. At a recent meeting
of the student government of the
college the President of the Society,
when asked to report on its opera-
tions, responded with a motion to do
away with it. Although he was Pres-
ident, he said, he had never attend-
ed a meeting of the group nor did
he know what its function was.
Characteristically, his motion was
defeated and he was re-elected in
reward for a job well done!

One organization which stands out
among these many and variegated
groups is the Oxford Union Society,
the University debating club. The
Union, as it is generally known,
sponsors weekly debates during term
in which undergraduate members of
the University participate jointly
with well-known public figures. Such
is the reputation of the Oxford de-
bates that few men who are out-
standing in British public life have
not appeared at some time in one
of them.

In addition to its role as a debating
hall the Union provides club facili-
ties—consisting of a 50,000 volume
lending library, dining room, bar,
billards and television rooms, and a
dance hall—to the University mem-
bers, most of whom belong to the
Union. Elaborate though it is, U.Va.’s
“ping pong palace” cannot hold a
candle in comparison!

Trifling Tidbits

Humiliating to all Oxford men
was the academic ranking of the
various colleges, based on last term’s
results and just recently released:
the five women’s colleges were all in
the top six places. Tops for the men
was Magdalen, followed by Wad-
ham...Americans are finding it
difficult to assess c impaign news
from the States, as English news-
papers all show a heavy pro-Ken-
nedy bias, even in the news stories.
Reaction: an ed in the London
Times classified section enlisting
support of those desirous of a fair
press treatment for Nixon...Ox-
onians have a unique term for the
British counterparts of the Ameri-
can “square,” “out,” or “conform-
ist.” Here they are called “grey men,”
and greyness is a thing to be de-
plored by those with verve.
; Cheerio!

 

Non-Partisan Leadership Issue
Neglected In Current Campaign

By VIC LASSETER
Friday Columnist

One of the issues which has been
neglected in the current political
campaign is the question of which
presidential candidate can provide
the necessary non-partisan leader-
ship during the next four years. Some
reasons for this neglect are (1)
neither candidate can tell the Ameri-
can people that he and only he has
the imagination, leadership, and
sense of equity to serve as a non-
partisan president and then escape
the charge of immodest boasting and
(2) this issue is essentially intan-
gible and cannot be reduced to for-
mulae; it must be treated some-
what speculatively.

Nonetheless, this is an issue worth
discussion because of the importance
of non-partisan leadership in the
crises which will invariably face the
next president. These crises will oc-
cur in such areas as US. prestige
abroad, for the Communists will be
doing everything possible to dis-
credit U.S. leadership in the world;
and in space and defense programs,
for we will be faced with (1) increas-
ing Russian competition and with
(2) the possibility of a growth in
the possession of nuclear weapons to
minor powers. To meet these chal-
lenges the next president will have
to rise above his party affilation and
lead the nation as a whole.

Leadership Needed

To meet these challenges, and we
are deceiving ourselves if we deny
their existence, the next president
must exert a vigorous executive lead-
ershop. Vigorous executive leader-
ship does not necessarily mean more
government control; it means that the
president must be a leader who is
in command of every situation and
who can gain the confidence of the
people. It means that the president
is a symbol of the aspirations of the
people, and these people stand be-
hind him with affirmative popular
support.

The requisites for non-partisan
leadership are therefore the ability to
capture the trust, confidence, and
imagination of all the people, and
also command of a strong party or-
ganization which can serve as a uni-

 

fied foundation of the president’s be-
liefs.

In general, neither Mr. Nixon nor
Mr. Kennedy has the complete con-
trol of their respective political par-
ties. Mr. Kennedy, however, has
only one faction, the Southern con-
servative block, with which to con-
tend; Mr. Nixon must deal with the
liberal wing of his party, led by Gov.
Rockefeller, and the ultra-conserva-
tive wing, led by Sen. Goldwater.
Mr. Kennedy, however, will have
the services of Lyndon Johnson in
dealing with the Southern faction
and Mr. Johnson is no mean master
of party politics. What is more, the
Southern conservatives are in a
minority and are not intent upon
capturing the leadership of their
party.

Sen. Goldwater, however, has
promised to lead the ultra-conserva-
tives back to power in the Republi-
can party, and this threat might ser-
iously challenge Mr. Nixon’s lead-
ership of his party. The closer
the views of all factions of a political
party to the views of its leader, the
firmer foundation upon which that
leader can lead the nation.

Liberals for Kennedy

Another requisite for non-partisan
leadership is the affirmative support
of the national electorate. Negative-
voting is no strange phenomenon to
American politics, but it is present in
this campaign to a frightening degree.
Mr. Kennedy has the unqualified
support of the liberals of the nation;
these liberals will not be voting
against Mr. Nixon, they will be vot-
ing for Mr. Kennedy.

Mr. Nixon, however, lacks the af-
firmative support of the nation’s
conservatives. Conservatives, as ex-
pressed by many Washington and
Lee students will vote for Mr. Nix-

on because he is “the lesser of two

evils,” not because they believe in
him as a great leader. For the same
reason, Mr. Nixon will receive the
votes of some Protestants who would
be delivered from the Catholic men-
ace.

Why does Mr. Nixon lack this en-

thusiastic, affirmative popular sup- |

port? Mr. Nixon is not clearly a
liberal, not clearly a conservative, not

clearly a middle-of-the roader; the
thus is unable to obtain the whole-
hearted committment of any of these
groups. Mr. Kennedy, however, is
by his own definition a liberal, he has
this group firmly on his side.

Nixon Lacks Warmth

Secondly, Mr. Nixon lacks that
communicative warmth which char-
acterized such great leaders as Lin-
coln, Wilson, and FDR each of
whom was able to lead the people
through crises because the people be-
lieved in Lincoln, Wilson, and FDR.

Perhaps Mr. Nixon can improve
himself in this respect, but his re-
cent campaign speeches make this
seem rather improbable. Instead of
aiming at the higher faculties of the
voting public, Mr. Nixon aims at
the lower faculties. Such statements
as “Look behind the label...See if
its the kind of goods you want to
buy,” “Jack’s jack can’t solve our
problems” can hardly capture the
imagination and affirmative sup-
port of the intelligent voter.

Kennedy Not ‘Elvis or FDR’

Mr. Kennedy does have this ar-
ticulateness necessary for leader-
ship. His popularity is based on his
warmth, not his subliminal adver-
tising. Mr. Kennedy is not, as claim-
ed in a recent editorial in the Tues-
day Ring-tum Phi, a cross between
Elvis Presley and FDR. Sen. Ken-
nedy’s popularity was described by
Sen. Smathers as a cross between the
popularity of FDR and Elvis Pres-
ley in an aside aimed at the ironic
sensibilities of a college-town audi-
ence, most of whom would be ex-
| pected to interpret the statement in
j its context.
| Our next president should be
| elected on the basis of his position
!towards the great issues. Nonethe-
less, these intangibles which make
a great leader remain the best lead-
| er is the leader who has the positive
; support of the people, and I feel
| that Sen. Kennedy has this support.

 

 

i NOTICE

The Assimilation Committee re-
minds all students that the rules
of conventional dress are in effect
i this weekend and asks students to
observe them.

 

 

PEANUTS

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

| a 3S)

pitoR

The Editor
Tuesday Edition
The Ring-tum Phi:

Without being a party to an un-
ending round of charges and coun-
tercharges I would like to clarify
my recent article on Sen. Goldwater
which was both misinterpreted and
roundly rejected in a column of last
Tuesday’s Ring-tum Phi.

At that time I was accused of
attacking the ultra-conservative an-

\

 

tipathy toward Social Security
without being aware of the premise
of this repugnance. While Sen.

Goldwater and others do have cer-
tain valid objections to Social Se-
curity, I tried to point out that
Sen. Goldwater’s objections seemed
a little ridiculous in view of the
fact that he wishes to abolish not
only Social Security, but also pro-
gressive taxation and all govern-
mental activity not expressly given
to the federal government by the
Constitution. Furthermore, I pointed
out the illogical premise of Sen.
Goldwater’s attack upon progressive
taxation. His premises for oppos-
ing Social Security are, I feel, equally
illogical, and if I was not specific
enough in my article I would like
to take this opportunity to clarify
my views.

If, as the Tuesday columnist says,
the basis for conservative opposi-
tion to Social Security is the belief
of conservatives that such legisla-
tion deprives the individual of eco-
nomic freedom, then I feel that this
premise shows a lack of common-
sense. Social Security is an involun-
tary tax as are, of course, all other
forms of taxation. Taxation does not
deprive the individual of economic
freedom or of the right to control the
means of production. Just as a paci-
fist pays approximately three-fourths
of his tax dollar for defense which
is necessary to national military sur-
vival, so must an advocate of eco-
nomic laissez-faire pay Social Se-
curity taxes to help preserve our
economic survival.

Social Security helps preserve our
economic survival because (1) it
acts as a stimulant in depressionary
periods, and (2) it eliminates some
of the inherent weaknesses of the
capitalistic system. Our economy is
not, as economic conservatives like
to believe, an automatic process.
Businessmen alone cannot prevent
periods of economic disaster, but the
government can to a certain extent.
Furthermore, our state of advanced
technology almost automatically de-
prives the worker of employment
after he has reached the age of 65.
It is therefore not inconsistent with
capitalism to alleviate this inherent
injustice. Social Security, therefore,
helps control the business cycle of
the free enterprise system and ac-
tually strengthens this system by
eliminating some of the weakness of
capitalism upon which Communism
thrives.

When apostles of the doctrine of
economic laissez-faire realize that
our economy cannot function in
times of depression without some
government activity in economic ac-
tivity perhaps they will give up
their notion of an automatic econ-
omy. In the meantime, however, I
feel that their objections to Social
Security are based not on their de-
sire to preserve our system of free
enterprise, a desire shared by eco-
nomic liberals, but on their pocket-
books. If we are one of the most
prosperous nations in the world
we at home often seem to be the
most parsimonious.

VICTOR K. LASSETER

 

To the Editor
The Ring-tum Phi:

Are you an “intellest” or an “in-
tellect” (what is it?), and or both?

This is the case which generally
exists at Lexington, Virginia, home
of the pride of our Valley. Wash-
ington and Lee University, I think,
contains a fine example of the Lazy
American, not the Ugly one.

“Somebody tells me that the Vic-
torians, not just Englishmen, had
“hideous taste” (and therefore shock-
ing) in (1) architecture; (2) music
(?); and (3) literature (!?). I dis-
agree with everything here, but the
contention about architecture, of
which the Lee Chapel is an example.
The point, if there is one, is that we
are far worse off than the Victorians
now, and in larger, glaring aspects
of our society,—“Red” or “Blue”
Square, Lexington, Virginia.

The frat system is not sick. We
love all our brothers; our big broth-
er says to! And the Weavers are
wonderful when they sing “On Top
of Old Smoky.” What we are doing,
in our swinging, minkish way is to
convince ourselves that we are sick
in America, at W&L. We are not sick,
and we should stop thinking so. We
are trying to be indifferent, blase.

The search of every man for his

(Continued on page 4)

 

 

 

 
afte

THE RING-TUM PHI

Page 3

 

Bob Funkhouser Is Out For H-S Contest; Hickey,
Gummey Will Share Left Halfback Duties On Sat.

By JOHN ALLGOOD
Assistant Sports Editor

Washington and Lee’s Generals,
who lost a major part of the “Go”
in their “Go-T” offense last week,
descend tomorrow into Hampden-
Sydney’s Death Valley.

W&L faces the Tigers, who have
crushed the Generals the last five
years in a row, minus the services
of its first three men at left half-
back—the position Coach Lee Mc-

Laughlin describes as “the most
important” in W&L’s “Go-T” of-
fense.

Sidelined are Bob Funkhouser,
Dave Tharpe, and Skipper Smith.
Funkhouser, the team’s leading
scorer and second leading rusher,
is out with a kidney ailment;
Tharp, the number two man, has |
the flu; and Smith, the third unit |
operative, is lost for the season
with a head injury.

 

But big, smiling McLaughlin isn’t |
particularly disturbed. He figures,
the Generals’ main asset—depth— |
will carry them through the —_
spots. At least he hopes so.

Stepping into the number one left |
half spot is junior Jim Hickey, who |
returned to full action against Johns |
Hopkins after missing the Generals’ |
first four games with a leg injury. |

|
|

Against Hopkins, Hickey spear-
headed the Generals’ only touch-
down drive with a 26-yard burst
around left end, which gave W&L
a first down on the Hopkins’ two.
Two plays later the 165-pound

speedster plunged over from the
one for the score.

Should Hickey re-injure his leg,
McLaughlin will send in sophomore
Charlie Gummey, whom the coach
has switched from right halfback

to the troubled left half slot. This
may be a key transfer.

“Charlie was our regular left half
on the freshman squad last year,”

McLaughlin said, “and he should fit

in well without too much difficulty.

 

He would have been there on the
varsity if we hadn’t had such ex-
perienced men in front of him. Now
he'll get a real chance.”

Although Gummey has carried
only ten times as a second unit
right halfback, he has averaged a
neat 5.9 yards per carry. In addi-
tion he is the Generals’ leading
pass receiver with six receptions,
84 yards, and one touchdown.

At 191 pounds, Gummey has both
speed and power and will beef up
the W&L offense.

In putting the first mar of the
year on the Generals’ record, Johns
Hopkins became the first team that

was able to both run at will on
W&L’s defense and hold W&L’s
powerful offense.

But McLaughlin was pleased
with the Generals’ performance,
especially the hard play of Little
All-American candidate Terry
Fohs and guard Tommy Goodwin.
Fohs accounted for an almost in-
credible 23 tackles and Goodwin’s
tough play forced Hopkins to run
to the opposite side while he
was in the game.

“Our boys had their backs to
the goal the entire second half,” Mc-
Laughlin said. “They could have
cracked any one of a half dozen

 

 

times, but they kept digging in when
it counted. Sure, we had a few
breaks on defense, but it took a lot
of heart to play as they did.”

The Generals will have their hands
full as usual against Hampden-
Sydney tomorrow McLaughlin said.

“We'll see the best backfield we'll
face all year. We know what Charlie
Sears can do to us, and we've got
all the respect in the world for Lew
Everett and the other Tiger backs.”

The Tigers splashed through the
mud at Petersburg last year to top
the Generals, 12-0. Everett set up
the first H-S score and Sears broke
away for the second Tiger tally.

Coach Mac Solves Defensive Problems
With Algebraic Equation: ‘Men, X-O’

Coach Lee McLaughlin doesn’t
profess to be a math teacher, but
some simple algebra-like drills in
defense have equalled success for
Washington and Lee’s football team
so far this season.

As in algebra, the problem is
“X”, and if the Generals solve
Coach McLaughlin’s equations cor-
rectly, then “X” always equals zero

or minus yardage.
But for the Generals, finding out

| FOOTBALL AND ALGEBRA—Coach Lee McLaughlin “(left) eile what “X” equals is not as important

W&L’s new “X” defense to Ned Hobbs, Tommy Goodwin, and Chip Day. as getting to where “X” is.

 

Werner, Kavor Lead Lynchburg Scoring As Booters
Fall 7-1; Generals Ready For Wolfpack On Monday

An injury-ridden Washington and
Lee varsity soccer squad registered
its third defeat this past week against
our neighbors from Lynchburg Col-
lege. Hampered by the loss of Co-
captains Dave Knight and Frank
Smith who were injured in the
hard-fought contest against the
North Carolina Tarheels the week
before, the Generals were unable to
contain the impressive scoring com-
bination of Lynchburg’s Werner and
Kavor, and came out on the short

 

Dave Knight in action.

 

end of a 7-1 score.

The Generals became aware of this
powerful one-two punch early in the
first period when tiny Kavor lam-
basted the nets for the game’s initial
tally. This score came minutes after
Werner had powered a drive past the
W&L secondary only to have the
kick miss the crossbar by inches.

This first period proved to be a
scoring one for the Generals also as
the Blue and White forward wall
drove deep into Hornet territory. On
one of these drive plays right wing

» | Charlie Begg set up teammate Steve

Hawkins, and the alert center for-

» | ward headed the ball past the Hor-
#|net goalie for W&L’s first and only
: | tally.

Lynchburg came back moments

| later, and high scoring Helmut “The

Cannon“ Werner registered his first

of two goals for the afternoon. The,

drive somehow had the effect of
deflating the Generals’ aggresive-
ness as the Blue and White bogged
down on several other occasions
during the course of the afternoon.
Lynchburg, however, capitalized on
several scoring opportunities which
were afforded them during the re-

Sore DERETToEHEoEEToEtes
NEW TOWN INN

*
*
*
Short Orders—Lunches %

Catering to Students

Merle ede rorfortedertes

%

i te he i i hee eh es

 

 

FORMAL WEAR

 

and
Complete Formal Accessories
The
COLLEGE TOWN

Shop

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

PEPE S eee tee
CALL BY NUMBER ”

and Save Time z

+

LEXINGTON =
TELEPHONE CoO. ;

Werberke rere ofe se oferfeofe rhe ofa ote ole oe rde ee obo ere rhe odors

PREP ee

mainder of the contest, and Werner
and Kavor each added one more to
their credit while teammates Rothgot,
Crawford, and Cheeves each found
the range for one goal.

The Generals now sport a 2-3
record for the season. There is a

very good chance, however, that they | @

will get the chance to even this up,
for on Monday Oct. 31, W&L plays
host to the Wolfpack from North
Carolina State.

This game is also being played at
Washington and Lee, and it is the
profund hope of this writer that
some students take enough interest
in the game to make it up to Smith
Field for the contest. It was most
disheartening for our Generals dur-
ing the Lynchburg game to play
before a crowd of a little over 100

(Continued on page 4)

 

 

e

Using the familiar slogan of “X
marks the spot” for inspiration, Mc-
Laughlin has worked out his line-
men’s defensive assignments in terms
of getting to pre-determined loca-
tions in the opposition’s backfield be-
fore the play develops. The theory is
that if guard Tommy Goodwin, end
Ned Hobbs, or any other W&L line-
man “gets to X” when the ball is
snapped, then the opponents will get
nowhere on that play.

 

TEXACO

Super Service Station
Lexington, Virginia
Corner Main and Nelson

 

 

Hamric and Sheridan
JEWELERS
Watch and Jewelry Repair
Hand Engraving and Class Rings
HO 3-2022

 

 

 

Wayland’s Drug Store

Prescriptions, Russell Stover
Candies

Next to Rockbridge Bank

 

 

 

 

 

THE DUTCH INN

For Reservation Call
MRS. KATHERINE ADAMS
HO 3-3433

 

 

 

 

 

 

LEXINGTON
HARDWARE
COMPANY

Phone HO 3-2242

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Lexington
Laundro Matic

 

 

 

 

 

Baker
Ford Sales

Se ste Me ite Ma the de te Ma te ta ite Me te ta te tha Ba tte te a a a Ba Bae
ee ee ee a a ee a a a ee ee ee ee

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

+
oe
Ba
a
ae
ay
a
+
fe
&
: % °
209 S. Main * @
es :
TETLOW :
+ BETTER DEALS
HAND IRONED :
° SHIRTS ts CLEARANCE
] V Service t of lot for 1961 Models
Dry Cleaning +
%
Z * *
af) S. Main HO 3-2841 for your convenience = : z
* Highway 60 East *
* *
S caemee ene SE cit iB Seen
> 4\\>
, 4q\ ir ’ It’s Good usiness
} HICKMAN’S ESSO jj} Waggy’s Jewelers To Do [ed usiness
b 4|| | 35 S. Main Street with IERER’S
( South Main Street , Phone HO 3-4121
wo oars } THE HOME OF QUALITY PHARMACY
4
sa caine i la Pe ER eens merneer a eer ners eran

 

 

 

 

 

 

“Getting to X” has become the
catch-phrase of the W&L defense.
Every lineman has his “X” assign-
ment in every W&L defense, with
with execution varying from play
to play, depending on how the
opposition lines up offensively, Mc-
Laughlin explains.

Assistant Coach Boyd Williams
has adapted an old adage to suit
the “X” defenses. Says he, “He who
hesitates will not get to X.”

McLaughlin emphasizes that “get-

 

ting to X” is the lineman’s first job,
making the tackle is secondary.

“If everybody up front gets to X

first, then linebacker Terry Fohs
will get a clear shot at his ‘X’,” says
McLaughlin.

And where is the Little All-
American candidate’s “X” assign-
ment?

“Oh,” says McLaughlin, “some-

where between the ball carrier’s
knees and his ankles. Or putting it
algebraically,” adds the Generals’
coach, “6X-+-No. 550.”

 

 

PARAMOUNT

 

 

 

Tried i
Filter
Cigarettes?

 

‘Tried
Other

Menthol / |
Cigarettes?

 

NOW! Come Up...All The Way Up

to the MENTHOL MAGIC

of

When your taste tells you
it's time for a change,
remember: Only Kool—
no regular filter cigarette,

no other menthol cigarette—
gives you real Menthol Magic!

©1960, BROWN & WILLIAMSON TOBACCO CORPORATION agsy

KOOL!

 
    
   

MILO MENTHOL

ALSO
AVAILABLE
WITHOUT
FILTER

 
  
 

  
 
   
  
 

THE MARK OF QUALITY IN TOBACCO PRODUCTS
Page 4

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

Students Urged To Vote

Nixon Predicted

Over Kennedy In Mock Ballot

Vice-President Richard M. Nixon
will take a 50 per cent win from
Senator John Kennedy in a mock
election to be held here Monday, a
study made by W&L’s Dr. L. W.
McCloud and his Statistics class re-
vealed today.

A random group of sixty students
was selected by the the school’s
new International Business Machine
(1.B.M.) equipment, and the group
was polled as to their presidential
choice by the Statistics class.

From this data, it was found that
80 per cent plan to vote for Nixon
in the mock election, while only 20
per cent intend to vote for Kennedy.

The majority of the students
polled, Dr. McCloud said, were of
the Episcopal and the Presbyterian
faiths, and their parents were found
to be almost entirely in the upper
income bracket.

Nixon supporters, the survey re-
vealed, were comprised of 55 per cent
from the North and 45 per cent from
the South, while Kennedy’s sup-
porters were 34 per cent from the
North and 66 per cent from the
South.

The accuracy of this prediction that
Nixon will win by this margin is de-
pendent on the fact that all the

 

Dance Set Rules
(Continued from page 1)

Prospects for a good weekend are
high. Vann added to his comments,
saying that Pearce Hardwick and the
vice-presidents of the dance set have
worked hard to make it a most suc-
cessful set and he urged all students
to participate in the university func-
tions and to enjoy the weekend.

The staff of the Ring-tum Phi joins
to wish you a happy, safe, sane and
enjoyable weekend.

Glee Club Sings

(Continued from page 1)

“The opening Te Deum Laudamus
speaks immediately of the vigorous,
triumphant spirit that characterizes
the work, the first theme standing
forward in boldly outlined tonality.

“The Te Ergo section opens with
a soprano solo of striking expres-
siveness.

“The final section...opens with a
statement by the four vocal solo-
ist...then the text is treated again
in a great fugue until the final huge
sonorities of the last pages cap this
estatic expression of one of the
great masters of coral music.”

Last year, the Glee Club sang
The Seasons with the Hollins Col-
lege group. The combined perfor-
mance with the Sullins club con-
tinues this series of performances
with neighboring colleges which has
been spread over the past few years.

In the spring, the W&L Glee Club
is planning to present the Four Way
Requiem with the Longwood Col-
lege Glee Club.

 

 

 

 

STANLEY WARNER

STATE

LEXINGTON, VA.

 

 

LASTS TIMES SATURDAY

a 20, JERRY WALD'S

production of
1

 

 

CinemaScoPE
COLOR by DELUXE coterie on

 

BROWN ’S
CLEANING

WORKS
We Call for and Deliver

24 Hour Service

 

Student agents in the
dormitory and fraternities
HO 3-2013 14 Randolph St.

 

 

 

To Take Win

students polled will vote in Mon-
day’s election.

David Goller, news director of
Home Edition, urged students to be
sure to vote. He said that only if a
large percentage of the student body
participated, would the election be a
true reflection of the student opin-
ion.

“Many students are always criticiz-
ing the nation for having only 60
per cent turnout in an election; now
is the time for the students to see
if they can do better.” Goller said.

The polls will open at 8:25 am.
Monday, and will close at 5 p.m., and
will be set up in the lobby of Wash-
ington Hall.

 

Law School Mock Trial
Set For November 12

(Continued from page 1)
cken, and Sam Patterson are assist-
ant counsels.

The defendants, Jack Buchanan
and Warren Welsh, have been in-
dicted on a charge of kidnapping
John Hess on the night of Oct. 12 as
he left the Paramount Inn. Hess was
forced at gunpoint to drive his car
and crashed into another car in an
attempt to escape.

The Mock Trial is a_ bi-annual
event sponsored by the Student Bar
Association for the purpose of giv-
ing the law students experience in
courtroom procedure. Larson ex-
pressed a desire for all undergrad-
uates who are interested in serving
on the jury to contact him as soon
as possible. The Trial is open to
the student body without charge.

President Cole Speakes
(Continued from page 1)

Thursday at the Cherry Plaza Hotel
in Orlando.

The Florida dinners are part of
Washington and Lee’s University De-
velopment Program now in its final
active stages of providing over
$2,000,000 for new facilities in science
and journalism.

Dean of Students Frank J. Gil-
liam, Alumni Seeretary William C.
Washburn and Director of Univer-
sity Relations James W. Whitehead
will accompany President Cole.

Alumni Chairmen

Letter to the Editor
(Continued from page 2)

own Grail: love or money, happi-
ness or resignedness, relative right
or relative wrong (many want this,
I think), is a compelling race, as well
as a search. A race must be run
rightly, but we are not even run-
ning at all!

We drink, we go to class, we pick
on the House Mother because of
the food, we “cut” each other’s poli-
tics or taste in girls. But do we
really want to vote to change? Do
we go out to try to change the
situation now bothering us on this
campus? Do we cheer loudly for
W&L when we play Sewanee? (I
do not, for one.) But my brother
cheers for his Sewanee squad.

Everything depends on the circum-
stances, and so does our life-race.

“You pays your money, sir, and
you takes your choice.”

WILLIAM MASON
Class of 1961

 

Greatest Show On Earth

(Continued from page 1). .~

“Give me the Simple Life ” and many
other hits, is making its first appear-
ance at Washington and Lee.

Openings 1960 will come to an of-
ficial close with the informal dance
Saturday night from 8-12 o'clock.
Ray Eberle and his orchestra will
provide the dance music and The
Four Freshmen are expected to make
an appearance.

POHOOSSSOSSOHOSSSOSSOOEOOOESOOEEIOOSOSEEOOSEOESELE
FOR ROOM RESERVATIONS—CALL HO 3-2151

LEXINGTON MOTEL
Large Rooms—U. S. 11 By-Pass South
Free TV—Phones—Continental Breakfast
Only Motel in corporate limits of Lexington
PPSOOCESOSSHOOEESSSOHOHSOOSSOOSSEOOOSOOESOOSEOEEEOE

 

Glasgow Writers

Visit Campus
(Continued from page 1)

The special endowment’s donor
was the brother of Ellen Glasgow,
Virginia novelist. His father, Fran-
cis T. Glasgow, was graduated from
Washington College, as Washington
and Lee was then known, in 1849.

Funds unexpended in the actual
administration of the visiting lec-
turers program will accumulate as
a Glasgow Publication Fund. It will
be used for publishing work of the
writers under the endowment and
students in the program.

 

Generals Ready For Wolves

(Continued from page 3)

people, only to realize that all but
about six of them were from Lynch-
burg. If they are able to travel
40 sime-odd miles just to watch their
team play, maybe it isn’t too much
to ask the W&L “gentlemen” to hop
in his late model sports car and make
the jaunt up to the field where God
knows he will be this weekend after
hours.

Serr re renee

 

= R.L. Hess and Bro. ¢
; JEWELERS z
; Lexington, Virginia
: HO 3-2833 ;

We rKe rhe oer afore ses ofe ole ofe oe ole sfe ode ote ole she ofe fe ofe

 

 

(7

 

 

THE COLLEGE INN

The Best Food in Town

American and Italian

Catering to the Students, Faculty,
and Towns People

OPEN SUNDAYS

m=

McThenia Writes Article
(Continued from page 1)

Washington and Lee in 1958, Mc-
Thenia, 25, received his M.A. degree
in geology from Columbia Univer-
sity earlier this year. He was an
instructor at Washington and Lee
during the 1957-58 academic year.

This summer, McThenia worked in
Germany as an international ex-
change trainee.

He is a member of the Geological
Society of American Phi Alpha Del-
ta national legal fraternity and Delta
Tau Delta social fraternity. He holds
a Menkemeller academic scholarship
at Washington and Lee.

FR

supply lasts).

ing also.

 

To every car owning student. A long lasting fine writing ball point
pencil, Guaranteed to run out of ink if you use it, but we will re-
place FREE when you bring it back. (This offer good as long as our

Say fellows, we have a truck load of new tires at unbelievably
low prices. RUSH over and get yours. Expert recapping and repair-

SPENCER GENERAL TIRE CO.

E. Nelson St. Extension

Towler Is President

Of W&L Troubadours

(Continued from page 1)

well as maintaining a personal file on
all student actors and technicians.

Frank D’Lauro, of Fairview Vil-
lage, Pa., and Steve Danzansky, of
Washington, D.C., were selected as
members-at-large to the Troub
executive committee. The members-
at-large will direct the program and
social committee’s activities.

The executive committee created
for the Troubs under a new con-
stitution and organization, will will
hold weekly meetings with the di-
rector, Dr. Cecil D. Jones.

EE

 

FOREIGN CARS AND

Expert Motor Work

 

OUR SPECIALTY

MAIN STREET MOBIL STATION

STUDEBAKER LARKS

Open 8:00 a.m.—8:00 p.m.

 

 

 

 

 

 

DIXON’S

ESSO SERVICE CENTER
ROUTE 60 EAST IN LEXINGTON

Across from the White Top Resturant
HO 3-4214

Wash, Grease, Lube, Road Service

Charge Accounts Welcome

 

 

Alumni chairmen for the dinners
are Charles J. Bradshaw in Miami,
Beverley H. Smith in Palm Beach
and Warren H. Edwards in Orlando.

 

 

 

 

SUN. - MON, - TUES.

Biyoorsed

    

 

 

“EXPRESSO
BONGO

 

 

TOLLEY’S PHARMACY
Prescriptions Filled
Immediately

PURCHASE DRUGS
HO 3-2211

 

 

 

aoe ete eee oe oe oe oteote nde oleate teateoteate
+

ROBERT E. LEE

 

%

BARBERSHOP
David M. Moore
Proprietor

Hele lelede eb ete ieee

 

@ e
*Dodge and Dodge Darts
© e
e and Lancer °
. America’s First Fine :
es e
: ECONOMY CAR :
*
: Rockbridge Motor Co. °
= oJ
° INC, :
° Phone HObart 3-3146 °
* S

Meee

 

Tareyton has the taste—

Dual Filter
does it!

NEW DUAL FILTER Tar

Product of at ~tinendvan Sebaceo Company ~<a is our middle name. ©. 7. C0,

Filters for

flavor
—finest flavor by far!

 
  

wag
LS.
<

 
 
   

1. It combines a unique inner filter of ACTIVATED CHARCOAL
definitely proved to make the taste of a cigarette mild and smooth...

2. with a pure white outer filter. Together they select and balance
the flavor elements in the smoke. Tareyton’s flavor-balance gives
you the best taste of the best tobaccos,

  

HERE’S HOW THE DUAL FILTER DOES IT:

eyton

 

 

 
 

 

TUESDAY
Edition

Che King-tum Phi

Washington and Lee Semi-Weekly Newspaper

TUESDAY
Edition

 

Volume LXI

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA, NOVEMBER 1, 1960

Number 14

 

Vice President Nixon Sweeps Campus Election

Both Faculty And Student Votes;

Favor Republican Party Nominees

By BOB BRIDEWELL

The Washington and Lee student
body, faculty, and administration
joined hands yesterday in endors-
ing the Republican ticket for 1960.
Sixty-three per cent of the total
votes cast were for Richard Nixon
and Henry Cabot Lodge, 36 per cent
cast their lot with the Kennedy-
Johnson team, and one per cent
chose to write in their choice for
chief executive.

The students, as was expected, led
the Republican bandwagon, voting
75 per cent for the Nixon-Lodge
combination, but the real surprise
to most came from the faculty and

 

ELECTION RESULT

 

Students

No. Voting %

75

24

1

48

%

51

49

69

Percentage by Classes

No. No. °
Class Voters Voting %
Freshman ............ 326 131 40
Sophomore .......... 289 130 45
PUNE ccsessseseczssss 250 140 55
BOMOF in cccesccss. 189 107 57
OW isn. 119 54 45
TINGE einsccan 8 4 50

TORE once 1181 564 47.92

 

administration. While most observers
had predicted a Kennedy victory
from these groups, the voters them-
selves proved them wrong, as the

 

final faculty and administration count
showed 46 votes for Nixon compared
to 44 for Kennedy.

Dave Goller, Director of Home
Edition, the co-sponsor of the
Presidential Election along with
Sigma Delta Chi, stated that the
total student turnout comprised
only 47.92 per cent of the eligible
voters, a number well below the
national average. The freshman
class showed the lowest percentage
turnout, with only 40 per cent vot-
ing, while the senior class led all
students with a 57 per cent turn-
out. Sixty-eight and 92 hundredths
per cent of the faculty and admin-
istration cast their ballots in the
election.

Goller said, “I believe that the ad-
ministrative personnel probably car-
ried the faculty and administration
for Nixon, plus the fact that sev-
veral avowed Kennedy supporters
failed to vote. Even if the admin-

istration had not carried the vote|

for Nixon, it would have been
close, which is surprising to me in
view of the strong Kennedy voices
heard recently in the faculty.”

The Mock election gained the in-
terest of newspapers throughout the
state, with news services in Roa-
noke, Lynchburg, and Richmond re-
questing information. Both the AP
and UPI wires transmitted the re-
sults of the poll throughout the area.

Princeton recently held a similar
mock election, with the following
results: Students—8 to 1 for Nixon;
Faculty “overwhelmingly” for
for Kennedy.

Of the five write-in ballots, one
was for Byrd, one for Talmadge, one
for Goldwater, one for Homer A.
Tomlinson, and one for T. Coleman
Andrews.

 

Freshmen, Eberle Draw Crowds
Despite House Competition

The Four Freshmen were the hit
of Openings Weekend. This can best
be shown by the large crowd pres-
ent at the Saturday night dance to
hear them repeat their musical suc-
cesses of the afternoon concert. The
Saturday night affair has drawn only
sparse crowds at best in the recent
dance sets, but this occasion found
the gym floor packed despite the
“No Smoking, No Drinking” rule and
the competition of fraternity house
combos. Jimmy Vann, president of
the University Dance Board, was all
smiles when he said, “This is as
good a crowd as I ever hope to see
at a Dance Set.” Ray Eberle pro-
vided some very danceable sounds,
but the Four Freshmen’s renditions
of such tunes as “Day by Day” and
“In the Still of the Night” made the
evening musically memorable.

 

While the Four Freshmen and Ray
Eberle were holding forth in the
center ring, combos were performing
on either side. There were a few
side shows, but the majority of the
house parties provided good enter-
tainment. Friday afternoon found
TNT Tribble playing to an enthusias-
tic crowd at the cocktail party given
by the Betas for Dance Set President
Pearce Hardwick. Another popular
group new to the W&L campus was
the Delicados. Such old favorites as
The Little Boys, Piano Red, and the
Jivers could also be heard sound-
ing forth at all hours of the day
and night during the weekend’s fes-
tivities. Friday night’s dance was also
well attended,

Credit for the excellent dance set
goes to Pearce Hardwick and St.
James of the House of Vann.

 

 

Moses Hadas speaking in duPont Auditorium last night.
—Photo by Young

 

Hadas On Classics And Moderns:

‘Greeks Were Great, So Are We’

By STEVE HENRY

Dr. Moses Hadas, Jay Professor
of Greek at Columbia University,
opened the 35th Washington and Lee
Seminar in Literature before a
packed house in duPont Auditorium
here last ngiht, praising a 20th cen-
tury generation for producing a so-
ciety equally as brilliant as that
of the Greeks.

“Our generation’s got nothing to
be ashamed of,” said Dr. Hadas.
“Why should we run ourselves down
in useless comparisons with the
Greeks?”

He cited the 20th century as an
extraordinary example of man’s
ability to gain control over the
physical universe and his own
environment.

“T owe a lot to the Greeks,” he
said. “I’ve gotten my bread and but-
ter from them for a long time. But
our generation has produced an age
just as great.”

“Centuries from now, we will be
looked on as a remarkable civiliza-
tion,” he commented.

“There is no denying our debt to
the Greeks, but we are still of our
own making.”

These were unexpected words
from a man introduced as “the dean
of classical study in America.”

The audience seemed ready to
listen to a dyed-in-the-wool classic-
ist deride our own civilization and
offer up highest praise for the Greek
way of life.

But Dr. Hadas said at the outset

 

that he was no self-styled “evangel-
ist of the Olympians.”

His hour-long lecture, entitled
“Humanism, the Ancient Ideal and
Its Survival,” touched on a wide
range of subjects.

Dr. Hadas never put either classi-
cism or humanism on a _ pedestal,
however.

He gave no specific definition of
Humanism, saying that it was too
closely associated with everything—
politics, religion, ete—to be de-
fined.

“Anyone speaking on the sub-
ject of Humanism should be sus-
pected at once,” he said. “The
term can denote almost anything.
For the Greeks, the measure of
Humanism was the man, the indi-
vidual.”

“Man was preoccupied with his
own importance, but importance to
the Greek meant that the individual
should excell, both for himself and
also for the state.”

“The big thing for a Greek was to
have his name remembered as hav-
ing done something to further the
cause of his people or his country.
Achilles is a perfect example.”

And Dr. Hadas went on to ex-
plain the Greek conception of a
hero, using characters from classic
tragedy and epic literature.

“We have to take Greek heroes
at face value. These men accom-
plished what they did as a result

(Continued on page 4)

 

Local Women Lead In Troub Play

By HENRY M. STROUSS
Troub Publicity Director

The Troubadour Theatre of Wash-
ington and Lee University has been
fortunate to secure the services of
three talented and experienced act-
resses to fill the female roles in their
production of Fry’s “The Lady’s
Not for Burning,” to be presented
in November.

Playing the title role will be Miss
Margaret Davis. Miss Davis began
her acting career acting in numerous
productions at King’s Hall, Compton,
Quebec. Continuing her education in
England, she had the opportunity to
frequently attended performances of
the London stage.

A distinct accent marks Miss
Davis’ Canadian and British back-
ground. This pleasant quality
makes her voice especially well-
suited for the poetic passages she
must negotiate in “The Lady’s Not
for Burning.”

The major development of Miss
Davis’ acting talent has taken place
in Lexington in her work for the
Troubadour Theatre. Under the skill-
ful guidance of former Troub di-
rector Lloyd Jackson Lanich, she
performed roles in “Witness for the

 

Prosecution,” “Twelfth Night,” and
numerous other productions. She
has won acclaim and admiration from
Lexington audiences for her artistic
distinction.

The feaured actresses in “The
Lady’s Not for Burning” are Yvonne
Dickins and Lisa Tracy.

Mrs. Dickins, wife of Dr. David
Dickins of the Washington and Lee
German Department, is appearing
in the cast of this season’s first play.
She is currently teaching English
and French at Lexington High
School and is the director of the
Teenactors organization there.

 

The family of Col. M. W. Tracy has |

been active in the Troubadour|
Theatre for many years. Originally |
Mrs. Tracy assisted the group, then |
her daughter Jeanne, now studying |
the drama in Germany on a Ful-|

bright Scholarship, participated. Now | ®

Col. Tracy’s youngest daughter steps
into the spotlight.

In last season’s “The Skin of Our |
Teeth,” Lisa held a small role, but
in “The Lady’s Not for Burning”
she is undertaking the secondary
romantic lead. In addition to her
Troub experience, Lisa has partici-

pated in productions by the Lexing-| Lisa Tracy (left), Yvonne Dickins and Margaret Davis rehearse for “The

ton High Teenactors,

iy

  
 
   

Lady’s Not for Burning,”

 

Toynbee To Talk Here March 10:

‘Does History Make Sense?’

By TOM LYBASS

Dr. Arnold Toynbee, the most dis-
tinguished historian of modern times,
will discuss the question: “Does
history make sense?” in a lecture
that will be presented on Friday,
March 10, at 8:00 p.m. in Doremus
Gymnasium.

The entire student body is invited

to attend the lecture which is spon- ©

  

sored by the University Lecture

Committee of which Dr. Allen Moger
is Chairman.

Dr. Toynbee, who was a visiting
professor at W&L four years ago, is
well known to Lexingtonians, many
of whom are his personal friends.
During his three day stay in Lex-
ington, he will be the guest of Dr.
and Mrs. Edward D. Myers.

Arnold Toynbee is the author of
300 books and articles in English,
the chief and most famous of which
is the monumental Study of History.
The eleventh and final volume of

The Study was written in collabor-*

ation with Dr. Edward D. Myers,
well-known member of the W&L

faculty.
Now in his seventy-second year,
Toynbee served as Director of

Studies at the Royal Institute of
International Affairs. While acting
in this position, he also served as
editor of “The Annual Survey of
International Affairs.”

After retiring four years ago, the
noted historian began an 18-month
trip around the world. Four of those
months were spent in India, Parkis-
tan, and Afghanistan. Last spring,
Dr. Toynbee gave a series of lectures
in Germany and at Rome and Bolog-
na in Italy, after which he and Dr.
Myers made a study tour of the
island of Sicily. During the coming
second semester, Toynbee will lecture
at the University of Pennsylvania.

His lecture at W&L is expected to
attract many people from surround-
ing areas.

 

Father McCarthey Speaks
Religious Emphasis Week

Father Francis R. McCarthy, pas-
tor of St. Patrick’s Roman Catholic
Church here in Lexington, will be
a supporting speaker for Religious
Emphasis Week, Nov. 9-11. He will
conduct an open discussion on “Re-
ligion and the East-West Conflict” on
Wednesday evening, Nov. 9, and a
discussion on “Religion and Racial
Exclusiveness” Thursday evening,
Nov. 10.

Father McCarthy has been in his
present position at St. Patrick’s since
last June, coming from Dayton,
Ohio where he had done some par-
ish work. A native of Hartford, Conn.,
he graduated from St. Joseph’s Col-
lege in Renssalaer, Indiana, in 1936.
After receiving his A.B. degree there,
he went to the University of Indiana
and earned a Master’s degree in Eng-
lish there. He was ordained at St.
Charles Seminary in Ohio in 1942,
and then went back to St. Joseph’s
to teach for several years.

 

Notices

There will be a meeting of Stu-
dents for Kennedy at 7 p.m. in
the Student Union. All interested
are urged to come. Plans to go to
Kennedy rally in Roanoke on Fri-
day will be discussed.

* *

Wednesday, Nov. 2 and Thurs-
day, Nov. 3 will be make-up days
for all those students who haven’t
yet had their individual pictures
taken for The Calyx. Pictures will
be taken at Borthwick Studio from
1:30-5:00 p.m,

*

The Athletic Department at
Virginia Military Institute an-
nounced today that the tickets for
the VMIi-Lehigh game at Wilson
Field Saturday will be available
to Washington and Lee faculty and
students for the half-price figure
of $1.50.

The tickets must be purchased at
the VMI Athletic Office by Satur-
day at 10:30 a.m. All tickets on sale
at the gate will be $3.00.

*

* *

* *

Dr. Sprunt will speak at 7 to-
night on “World Religions,” in the
Student Union.

 

 

Dr. Toynbee

 

Local Grotto
Spelunkers Host
Regional Society

The Lexington Grotto will play
host this weekend to the Virginia
Regional Meeting of the National
Speleological Society. The conven-
tion plans to attract the top “cave-
hounds” in the state as well as those
groups active in the Washington,
D.C. area. At least five prominent
cavers have promised to present
lectures on their specialized work in
fields ranging from rapelling to geo-
logical formations.

Three-day Convention

The three-day convention will
consist mainly of films, slides, lec-
tures, and demonstrations, although
the Lexington Grotto has planned
a series of field trips to some of the
more than one-hundred caves in
the Rockbridge area. The Washing-
ton and Lee cavers have also estab-
lished a camping area for those visit-
ing spelunkers who wish to take ad-
vantage of it. Recently the group
constructed a window display of
Spelunking equipment at Adair-
Hutton which will remain on dis-
play throughout the convention, and
bulletin boards outside the auditor-
ium will be used for a photo salon.

The formal meeting will begin at
1:00 p.m. on Saturday in duPont
Auditorium. The opening address
will be given on behalf of the host
grotto by Nick Denton, Phi Psi
sophomore. Some features are still
to be added to the actual program
but as of now the following are
definitely scheduled:

Dr. Francis Bick of the W&L Ge-
ology Department will talk on the
local geology of the area. John R.
Holsinger plans to deliver an ad-
dress entitled “Steam Tracing by
the Fluorescin Method.” William J.
Stephenson will discuss “An Experi-
ment to Determine the Age of Tol-
ley Cave,” this cave being located
near Lexington. Burton S. Faust will
review his paper on cave mining
which will be part of the Virginia
Cave Survey book.

One of the first projects of the
newly formed Lexington Grotto was
the exploration and subsequent map-
ing of Cave Springs, a cave familiar
to all Washington and Lee geology
students. The group spent over 140
hours last year in chartering the
almost three miles of passageways in
this cave. The resulting map which
was submitted to H. H. Douglas,
Chairman of the Washington, D.C.
Grotto and Director of the Virginia
Cave Survey, will be included in
his recently completed book on Vir-
ginia caves. Mr. Douglas, noted as
one of the area’s foremost spelunkers,
will feature this book in his lecture
to be given in conjunction with the
weekend's activities.

Another highlight of the meet-
ing will be a special exhibition in
rapelling from the face of Natural
Bridge. “This manuver,” said
Denton, “is planned for Sunday.
It involves the descent of the
bridge by using only ropes, and
should provide an exciting climax
to the convention.”
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 2

THE RING-TUM

PHI

 

Che Ring-tum Phi

Tuesday

Edition

Member of Virginia Intercollegiate Press Association

 

Help For Campus Club

Harry Meem and his Campus Club boys are doing a good
job. They put on a rush this year. They spoke at freshman
camp. They have provided for the freshmen who did not join
a fraternity a means of transportation to the various “mixers”’

at the neighboring girls schools.

They also held a reception for the parents of the Campus
Club boys after the parents’ weekend football game. This re-
ception was well patronized including among its attendents Dr.
Cole, Dean Farrar, and various other University dignitaries.

The club has obviously been more active this year than it
has been in the past. It needs and deserves encouragement. We

hear from its officers that this

year’s beginning has been en-

couraging. We would like to offer our encouragement and serv-

ices if they are needed.

We once heard one of the University’s recruiters tell a
parent that if a boy wasn’t in a fraternity at Washington and
Lee, he had a hard row to hoe. While we know there have been,
and still are, boys who have had quite successful and satisfying
careers at W&L without joining a fraternity, we have found
that most students, fraternity and non-fraternity, agree with

the above statement.

We have also heard that there is a plan afoot that would
put all students who wanted to join a fraternity in one of the

Greek letter clubs on campus.

We haven’t heard the details

of the plan and we presume that any such move would have
to be approved by the IFC or some other student committee
before it could become official. However, there has been some
serious consideration of such a plan.

We feel that if the Campus Club were to become even
more active and that if it had facilities with which to entertain
its members, it could take up the slack and provide those boys
who do not join a fraternity with much needed and varying

forms of recreation.

We realize that any plan for expanding and improving the
Campus club would require close cooperation and better or-
ganization among its members. We feel that these boys are
ready to cooperate and organize.

With a little aid from the University, a little work, and a

little effort on the part of the

club boys to cooperate a little

more, the Campus Club could become a more effective threat
to the Greek boys during rush week and a better organization
to provide social recreation for those boys who do not choose to

join a fraternity.

 

Kennedy Shoots

First, Asks

Foreign Policy Questions Later

By HUGO HOOGENBOOM

Foreign policy is one of the areas
in which the candidates have their
greatest disagreement, and yet each
seems to take inconsistent positions.
Nixon favors toughness in the For-
mosa area, yet accuses Kennedy of
irresponsibility when he called for
U.S. intervention in Cuba. Thus it
seems that Nixon is more concerned
over events 8,000 miles away than he
is over those 90 miles of the Florida
coast.

There is no real inconsistency in
Nixon’s position, however. Nixon
wants us to defend those parts of the
world which are free, and to let the
Soviet Union and China know we are
willing to defend them, so that there
will be no necessity for another Ko-
rean “police action.’ Quemoy and
Matsu have the strategic importance
of blocking the two most likely ports
from which an invasion of Formosa
can be launched, and they are held
by an ally, the soverign state of the
Republic of China.

Cuba, on the other hand, is an
independent state in an extremely
volatile area. Direct, open Ameri-
ean intervention would only stiffen
the opposition of the Cuban people,
who seem to be behind their leader,
and alienate other Latin American
peoples. A quarantined Cuba can
be of real harm to no one but
herself, and will eventually be ripe
for the kind of subtle, indirect in-
terference which was used so ef-
fectively against Guatemala.

Che Ring-tum Phi
Tuesday Edition
The Ring-tum Phi is published Tues-

day and Friday during the college year.
It is printed by the Journalism Labor-

   
 
  
  
   

atory Press, ashington and Lee Uni-
versity. The mailing address is Box
899, Lexington, Va,

Entered ag second class matter Sep-
tember 20, 1946 at the Post Office, Lex-
ington, Va., under the act of March
8, 1878.

National Advertising Representative:
The National Advertisers Service, Inc.,
420 Madison Ave., New York, N.Y
GT cet ee Rosewell Page, III
Business Managef............+ Huntley Biggs

Editorial Board
Managing Editor.......c Bill Roberts
ssistant Managing Fiesssensnoeavieuaanies
ee erneuwiicaiaan Steve Galef
News Editor....... .Bob Bridewell
Sports BEAItOL........ccccccsssserseveseesss Steve Guild

eaiiatl Harvey Allen
.Lanny Butler, Bill
Smith, Ronnie King
Copy EitorS.......sccsesesereeseess Roger Paine,

Hunter Manson
Photography Editor.........0008 Bill Young

eature Editor
Associate Editors..

 

 

Latin American distrust of Yankee
interference is growing greater, and
Mr. Nixon is correct in not trying
to increase it. Thus, Nixon’s stand
on these two foreign policy problems
is not only a solution for these prob-
lems, it is indicative of his attitude
towards handling all foreign policy:
problems must be approached calmly,
rationally, with the future in mind,
so that the policy is an ordered
structure, not a make-shift hodge-
podge of patches and jury-rigging.

There is logic in Senator Kennedy’s
position, too. At the time that the
question was posed, someone had
decided to run a series of clips of
Kennedy talking to some old Ken-
tucky women who had lost sons in
one of the recent wars. Here, it must
have seemed, was a perfect chance to
get in another “no American boy will
fight on a foreign battlefield” speech.
So Kennedy said he thought we
should abandon the off-shore islands.

This, I’m sure, was hastily said
without any real comprehension of
the results of such a policy, which
would be a clear invitation to the
Chinese Communists to attack. Some
time later Kennedy retreated a little
from his original position, presum-
ably after he’d thought about it a
little. Perhaps he remembered the
disastrous results of a similar state-
ment by Mr. Dean Acheson con-
cerning Korea.

Then came Cuba. Possibly the
Democrats felt that Kennedy’s im-
age was not strong enough where
Communism was concerned, so
Kennedy said we should intervene
in Cuba. Once again we must con-
fess that we believe Senator Ken-
nedy to be an honorable and
thoughtful man. The pressure of
the campaign probably didn’t per-
mit Kennedy to think the matter
ever carefully enough. He has now
“explained” his original remarks
and now they sound a good deal
less wild than at first.

Twice, in the space of two months,
Kennedy has said things which, had
he been president when he said
them, would have led to serious
crises. He said them because he
was under pressure, not because he
didn’t understand the problems. He
just didn’t have time to understand
them.

In 1957 he made a speech about
Algeria which infuriated the French

(Continued on page 4)

 

RH

Members and

Spelunkers Prepare Cave Assault

By HAL McCLANAHAN

The Lexington Grotto held their
first meeting for the forthcoming year
Friday, Oct. 14, in the Student Union
Building. The Grotto, which is one
of the many chapters of the National
Speleological Society (NSS), is com-
posed of W&L students and VMI
cadets.

The exploration of caves combines
the worlds of the sportsman and the
scientist. Spelunking is a year-round
sport, which challenges one’s imagi-
nation and physical prowess. It is
a very demanding sport, as the
Grotto usually takes six hours to
explore a cave.

Speleology is a relatively new
science. Of all the caves in the
world, only ten per cent of them
have been properly inspected, and
new caves are being discovered
sonstantly. The opportunities for
original research in _pratically
every natural science is limitless.
Nick Denton, a Phi Psi and chair-
man of the Lexington Grotto, says
“spelunking is like climbing a
warm Mount Everset at night.”

The program in the Grotto’s ini-
tial meeting was designed to acquaint
the potential members with the pur-
poses and activities of the NSS.
Slides were shown by Dr. Edgar W.
Spencer, Head of the Geology De-
partment and faculty adviser to the
club, and a discussion was held on
some of the techniques of spelunking.

The National Speleological So-
ciety was founded in 1939 by a
group of men and women in the Dis-
trict of Columbia, who were inter-
ested in the exploration and study
of caves. Affiliated with the Amer-
ican Association for the Advance-
ment of Science as well as foreign
speleogical organizations, the So-

 

 

initiates of the reorganized Lexington Grotto of the National Spelunking Association talk over

future plans.

ciety is the coordinating agency for
any information relating to spele-
ology. Its primary purpose is to pro-
mote the discovery and recording of
new caves and to protect caves and
their contents from vandalism.

In 1946 W&L had the largest
Grotto in the world with over 200
members. However, the club be-
came lax in the observance of vital
safety rules and the Grotto had to
be disbanded.

In September of 1959 a group of
students at W&L and VMI interested
in spelunking, banded together to
meet the NSS’s Grotto requirements
and were later granted a charter.
As members of a recognized Grotto,
spelunkers have access to many of
the NSS’s libraries, slides and pho-
tographs as well as unpublished rec-
ords, files, and maps of the Society.
A member may also buy his equip-
ment through the Grotto at reduced

rates. A recognized Grotto and its,

members may also explore any com-
mercial caves. It should be pointed
out that spelunkers who have ob-
served the NSS’s safety rules have
had not fatalities... yet.

The present Lexington Grotto
conducts most of its field trips and
cave explorations on Sunday after-
noons. A minimum of three persons
must be present for a “cave climb.”

Since the Shenandoah Valley is
considered on the five best caving
areas in the world, the Grotto is not
limited in its activities to one or
two locations. In fact, there are over
1200 recorded caves in the state of
Virginia alone. Rockbridge County,
itself, contains at least 100 known
caves of all kinds and sizes.

Besides exploring caves, the Lex-
ington Grotto works with the Lex-

 

ington and Buena Vista Rescue
Squads. Their main job is to locate
victims lost in caves and prepare
them for evacuation. The members
of the club also assist in W&L’s
geological field trips.

As a project last year, the Lexing-
ton Grotto mapped Cave Springs
Cave; the first time this had ever
been done completely. This project,
which took roughly 140 hours, re-
vealed almost three miles of under-
ground passagesways, which des-
cended through six levels and enter-
ed at various places into an under-
ground river. The maps from the
Lexington Grotto’s project will be
used in the forthcoming scientific
book, Virginia Cave Survey. As of
yet no projects have been set for
this year.

In order to become a member of
the Lexington Grotto, a person must
first, of course, have an interest in
spelunking. He will be given a
working knowledge of cave climb-
ing and cave safety by the Grotto’s
members before going on an organ-
ized climb. This precaution is taken
because every spelunker’s safety
underground depends on each of the
other members of the party.

On being accepted, a member must
also provide himself with the club
helmet as well as a secondary light
source.

To date, the following boys have
applied for membership: Bill Robin-
son, Bob Powell, Charles Kimbell,
Lynn Hammond, Fred Hulett,
Charles Urquhart, Jay Clark, Rick
Belser, Fred Bartlett, Charles Head,
Dick Heard, Jack Guthrie, Les Foote,
Herb Smith, and Spence McEvoy.

The next meeting of the Lexington
Grotto will be announced at a later
date. Anyone interested in joining
the club should call Nick Denton at
HO 3-5213.

 

Raven Rants

School Traditions Questioned

By GERRY OUELLETTE

The University, it appears to us,
is undergoing a great period of
transition. Physical changes have
been effected: a new president, a
reestablishment of the administration
under three separate heads; a reju-
venation of the library schedule; the
installation of IBM and News Re-
lease units.

Material changes have not escaped
the trend. We now have adequate
lighting facilities in the library. The
Dean’s Offices, now centralized in
Washington Hall, certainly can be
counted as a major beneficial im-
provement.

We here list the changes, that
we have become acquainted with,
for the simple reason that we an-
ticipate (and urge) reformation of
other aspects. We refer to what
could be called the spirit of Wash-
ington and Lee.

Basically our spirit is part of the
Tradition. The Tradition, we feel, in
itself represents a good thing. Ideal-
ism elevates man. A challenge is the
stuff which creates good athletes
and saints; and the Tradition is a
challenge. We conclude that Tradi-
tion is worthwhile—fine.

Opposes Paraphernalia

What we oppose consists in the
paraphernalia with which the Tra-
dition is saturated. The parapher-
nalia of spirit never ceases to amaze
us. We wonder at what the spirit
allows under the label of “tradition-
ally W&L.” All we are left with af-
ter such a defense is a weak, “Oh?”,
and we swallow with difficulty.

There are many things—-some
intangible, some unmentionable—
which compose what is known as
Tradition. We are forced to re-
duce (perhaps conveniently) its
entity to three major traits: the
speaking tradition, conventional
dress, and the honor system.

 

These three form the bulwark of
the Tradition. It is our conten-
tion that this mighty triumvrate
consists in two parts fallacy.

The first, the speaking tradition,
means something to some freshmen;
but even then, very little time is
required before even this class of
undergrads realizes how mythologi-
cal this phase of University life real-
ly is. By the time the freshman be-
comes a sophomore, he has passed
the need to speak. However, he re-
members that last year he spoke,
and this year the sophomore con-
tents himself with a grunt or a groan,
as he passes another student.

The junior reduces the speaking
tradition further to a nod of the head,
sometimes accompanied by a slight
squint of the eyes and a quivering
of the lips. The senior avoids the
tradition altogether by looking the
other way.

The second great fallacy of the
Tradition, we name the old cus-
tom of conventional dress. This
ideal obviously is held by and for
the administration, the faculty, and
some of the students, some of the
time. It would prove interesting
to have the Assimilation Commit-
tee actively gestapoeing, say, Fri-
day and Saturday of Openings
week-end.

The third facet, the honor system,
is, to us, The Tradition. This ele-
ment of the Tradition stands alone as
a brightly burning torch, represent-
ing something very real. The Honor
System (the core of which states that
there are no dishonest students at
W&L) works; and we maintain that
anyone who tampers with the func-
tioning of the Honor System does not
remain among us long.

The purpose of this harangue is
to point to one heart felt desire
of ours, that could be achieved
during this period of transition
which we mentioned earlier.

 

We feel that any renovation of
the Tradition or spirit of W&L will
have to be a subtle move, which we
can only see as originating from
above. Evidently the student body is
ready for a modification of the defi-
nition usually given the Tradition of
Washington and Lee.

May we suggest to those in power
to arrive at definite results that the
Tradition be made equivalent with
the Honor System; that the para-
phenalia (the speaking tradition, the
conventional dress, and the meaning-
less publicity which is real only in
the minds of a few) be put to death.

LITTLE MAN

 

 

 

 

oat

HWE WOULD FE TARDY TH DAY THEY Su er ON THAT CHAPTER.”

Webster Unabridged

Diary Recalls
Student’s Day
Of Class, Study

By ED WEBSTER

Having heard several complaints
that the average college student
doesn’t know the value of time, we
set out on some research. First we
asked a group of sophomoes to
choose one of their number as “Mr.
Average Student”; then we requested
this chap to keep a diary of his ac-
tivities.

Although he protested he didn’t
have the time to bother with an ex-
tended diary, Mr. A. S. was kind
enough to submit a few personal no-
tations on his activities for a single
day. It was a day like all days;
only, we were there.

As anyone can see, he was doing
something almost every minute;
therefore any charges of idleness
would seem to be unfounded:

7:45 am. Arose, breakfasted on
coffee and toast, read comics.

8:33. Arrived at class. Since prof.
had started lecturing, took no notes.
(Note: remember to copy notes be-
fore next quiz.)

9:20. Free period. Cup of coffee and
discussion of sex in Co-op.

10:15. English class. Report on
imagery in Paradise Lost is due next
week. (Note: must get plot outline
from Charley.)

11:10. Met Bob in library. Discus-
sion of sex.

12:05. French class. Professor dis-
cussed sex.

1:15 p.m. Being hungry, ate large
lunch. Became drowzy, decided that
movie would wake me up.

2-4:15. Flick team, Bad movie, but
many opportunities for ad-libs from
audience.

4:30. Popcorn had made me thirsty;
got beer at Paramount. Larry re-
minded me of history parallel as-
signment tomorrow. (Note: call
someone tonight and see if Larry was
telling the truth.)

5:15-6. Took well-earned nap.

6:15-6:30. Supper. Spaghetti again.

6:30-8:15. Played bridge, lost again.
Obviously my partner hadn’t been
keeping in practice.

8:30-9:45. Watched fraternity
brothers in scrimmage basketball
game. Pretty disheartening.

10-11. Two fairly good Westerns
on TV. Very relaxing after a hard
day.

11:05. Remembered history parallel
assignment; too late to call anyone.
Probably Larry was kidding any-
way.

11:06 Read July issue of Nugget.
Joe and I discussed the nude in art.
(Note: he prefers Escapade.)

11:18. Read Joe’s copy of Escapade
for purposes of comparison. (Note:
all women are basically the same.)

11:30. Looked over tomorrow’s
psychology lesson. What a bunch of
nonsense.

11:37. Got hamburger at White Top.
(Note: what ever happened to that
cute waitress?)

12:10 a.m. Looked over last week’s
economics assignments. Must re-
member to read them more thor-
oughly before quiz.

12:30 . Roommate and I argued
whether his chemistry professor is
harder than my economics prof.
(Note: we decided a language major
is easiest. Maybe I'll give Spanish a
try.)

12:57. And so to bed.

 

NOTICE

All non-fraternity men can pick
up their Southern Collegian in the
Student Union.

ON.CAMPUS

(F mevenvenm

© 70. BONS, ALRHARET, KANE ALL

  

Lge

$-40
THE RING-TUM PHI

Page 3

 

Generals Trounce Tigers,

H-S Dominates First Half Play; |

W&L Shines In Closing Quarters

Washington and Lee’s Five-Star
Generals assured themselves of their
first winning season since 1951 with
a come-from-behind 14-7 victory
over the fighting Tigers of Hampden-
Sydney. The victory stretched the
Generals’ undefeated streak to seven
games and left them 5-0-1 for the
season.

Play in the first half was domi-
nated by Hampden-Sydney, as the
Generals were slow getting started.
W&L’s only drive of the half was
stalled on the Tigers’ six, minutes
before the intermission. Twice in
the early part of the game the
Tigers, led by the passing of Stew-
art Shelton to end Bob Saylor,
threatened to score. Both times
they were stopped: once by a
fumble on the 21-yard line and
the second time by a pass inter-
ception on the 30.

The beginning of the second quart-
er saw the Tigers take over on
downs at Washington and Lee’s 44.
Lewis Everett, on the second play,
broke away and carried the ball
down to the 15. After a loss of four
yards, Shelton completed a 16-yard
pass to Tony Rucker for a first down
on the three. Two plays later, Shel-
ton scored on a quarterback sneak.
Fred Mitchell converted the point
after touchdown to put the Tigers
out in front 7-0 with thirteen min-
utes left till the half.

The Generals, moving 84 yards,
scored the first time they got the
ball in the third quarter. Steve
Suttle ignited the drive with a
22-yard pass to Doug Martin.
Charlie Gummey picked up twenty
more yards on two carries to move
the ball down to the Tigers’ 12. Two
plays later, Gummey went around
right and for 10 yards and paydirt.

 

Gummey Is Star Of Week

This week’s selection for the out-
standing player in the game with
Hampden-Sydney last week is
Charlie Gummey, a sophomore from
Wilmington, Del. Gummey was
moved to a starting role at halfback
to replace the ailing Bob Funkhouser
this week, and once there he per-
formed like a veteran. In leading the
Generals to victory Gummey carried
the ball 14 times for a total of 62
yards, an average of 4.4 pards per

(Continued on page 4)

Radio Hospital
*
Radio, TV, Phonograph
Sales and Service

*

HO 3-3531

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ooo ole oe ere nfo rhe nfo she oko she ofe ae ake ae ofa fe ofe re nfs

THE NEW

White Top

Restaurant
*

A personal invitation
to the
Students

Try our delicious foods
Route 60 East

a
er ee ee eee

Oe erforte rhe fo fone ne sho ao ne fe whe eo ae nfo nhe ate nfo ale she ake ae ake oe oe ake oho oho oho she oe she shoot

 

Seletobdetetemdetetetedogebtetetebaed

 

 

VARSITY
BILLIARD
ACADEMY

Catering

To Students

Corner of

Washington and Jefferson

 

 

 

 

The try for the extra point failed, |
and Hampden-Sydney led 7-6.

Midway in the fourth quarter, the
Generals struck for 80 yards and
the decisive touchdown. Again, it
was a Martin-Suttle pass, this time
good for 26 yards, that got Washing- |
ton and Lee moving. With the ball |
on the Tigers’ 43, Martin burst
through the middle for 13 yards. |
After a one yard gain, the Generals
scored on a 29-yard pass from Mar-
tin, who faked a sweep around left
end, to Ned Hobbs, who was stand-
ing alone in the end zone. Gummey
bulled his way over for tH® two
extra points and put the Generals
ahead for the first time 14-7.

Washington and Lee made an-
other bid for a score in the wan-
ing minutes of the game when Ter-
ry Fohs intercepted a pass and re-
turned it 43 yards to Hampden-
Sydney’s six. Four plays later, the
Tigers took over on downs on their
own six-inch line.

Charlie Gummey was the leading
ground gainer with 65 yards on 15
carries. For the day, the Generals
picked up 304 yards to the Tigers’
196 yards.

 

Ferrum Beats Freshmen
In Close Game Friday

Friday, Oct. 27, Ferrum Junior
College handed the Washington and
Lee Freshman football team its sec-
ond loss of the season, 20-18. The
game featured several long runs
and passes including a 97 yard kick-
off return. The Generals’ offense
moved well against the Panthers,
but the W&L defense could not con-
tain the big, hard driving Ferrum
backs.

Ferrum took the opening kickoff

(Continued on page 4)

 

MYERS
HARDWARE
COMPANY

 

 

 

John Baker as finalist Jerry Wilbourn looks on.

Tom Baker, owner of Thomas, Ltd., presents the Fall Tennis Trophy to |

 

Cross-Country Team Defeats University Of Richmond

The Washington and Lee cross-

The next three places in the meet

country team scored a 19-46 victory} went to W&L’s Youngblood, Wil-
over the University of Richmond} liams, and Ganeston.

last Friday on UR’s home course.

Although most of the meet was
run in a steady downpour, the
Generals’ Mike Shank scored first
place with his time of 23:20 on the
4.2 mile course. The second place
berth was filled by Bill Lumpkin
of Richmond.

The team record now stands at
6-1. Coach Miller said that the next
meet will be with High Point and
Catawba in a dual meet at High
Point, N. C., on Nov. 4. Following
this the team will then participate in
the state meet at Hampden-Sydney
on November 14.

 

 

 

Open a convenient student Checking account
TODAY

at

Rockbridge National Bank

Member Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation

 

 

 

In Lexington

McCrum’s Drug

Store

For Prescriptions

and

All your Drug Needs

Fountain Service

Notions

Magazines

Photo Service

Phones HO 3-2323—HO 3-2433

17 S. Main St.

 

|

Bootmen Win

Third Game

The Washington and Lee soccer
team evened their season’s record at
3 wins and 3 losses with a decisive
6-2 victory over North Carolina
State on Smith Field yesterday.

Led by Steve Hawkins with 4
goals and Jim Starkey and co-captain
Dave Knight with one goal apiece,
the Generals scored in every period
including three tallies in the final
frame to win their first game in the
last four starts.

Halfback Bob Pagano, fullbacks
Dunlop Ecker and Harry Preston,
along with goalie Clark Valentiner,
who had 25 saves, played good ball
containing the powerful Wolfpack
offense to two scores.

North Carolina State, fielding a
team made up predominately of
foreigners, played short passing, con-
trolled soccer at a much slower pace
than the Generals were used to. The
first period was marked by sloppy,
indecisive play from both teams, and

| W&L failed to turn two penalty

kick opportunities into goals.

North Carolina State struck first
in the scoring department as right-
wing Del Carmen got behind the

(Continued on page 4)

 

The Coaches Corner

Coach Mac
On H-S Tilt

It was a satisfying win in “Death
Valley.”

Hampden-Sydney played inspired
football in the first half in an ef-
fort to win for their homecoming
crowd. However, our Generals came
out for the second half determined
to win and quickly took the initiative
away from the fighting Tigers. The
second half was all ours.

Terry Fohs had another fine day.
He took part in 20 tackles and in-
tercepted a pass to snuff out Hmp-
den-Sydney’s last bid for an ef-
fective drive. He ran the ball back
some 40 yards to the eight-yard
line and just missed going all the
way.

Tommy Goodwin and Courtney
Mauzey played well. Joe Hess is se-
lected as the unsung star for his work
on the defensive. He thwarted the
Tigers’ attempts to round his end,
and he was the prime rusher who
caused many of their passes to go
astray.

Wish us luck in Pittsburgh this
Saturday.

 

 

 

  
   

 

On Campus i220

(Author of “I Was a Teen-age Dwarf,” “The Many
Loves of Dobie (illis,” etc.)

THE PARTY WEEKEND: ITS CAUSE
AND CURE

With the season of party weekends almost upon us, my mail of
late has been flooded with queries from young inmates of women’s
colleges wishing to know how one conducts one’s self when one
has invited a young gentleman for a weekend, so let us today
take up this burning issue.

Well, my dear girls, the first thing to remember is that your
young gentleman is far from home and frightened. Put him at
his ease. You might, for instance, surprise him by having his
mother sitting in a rocker on the station platform when he gets
off the train.

Next, what kind of corsage should you send your young gentle-
man? Well, my beloved maidens, orchids are always acceptable.
So, indeed, are phlox and delphinium. In fact, most any flora
will serve. Do try, however, to avoid carnivorous plants.

If you find, my esteemed fillies, that your local florist has run
out of stock, do not be dismayed. Make a corsage out of paper.
But pick good, stiff, durable paper—twenty dollar bills, for
example.

Remember at all times, my fond wenches, to show your young
gentleman courtesy and consideration. Open doors for him,
walk on the traffic side of the path, assist him to the punch bowl,
zip his parka, light his Marlboros. (What, you ask, if he doesn’t
smoke Marlboros? Ridiculous, my precious nymphs! Of course,
he smokes Marlboros! Don’t you? Don’t I? Doesn’t everybody
who knows a hawk from a handsaw? What other cigarette
gives you such a lot to like? Such easy-drawing filtration? Such
unfiltered taste? Such soft pack or flip-top box? No other, my
sweet minxes, no other. Marlboro stands alone, and any man
worthy of you, my estimable damsels, is bound to be a Marlboro
man.)

   

* ben Fe. h; ape ge J :
Cutnnise biee wlew ke Gel of fe Cale x
If you will follow the simple instructions stated above, my
good lasses, you will find that you have turned your young
gentleman into a fast and fervent admirer. There is nothing
quite like a party weekend to promote romance. I am in mind
of a party weekend some years ago at Miss Pomfritt’s Seminary
for well-born females in West Linotype, Ohio. Serafina Sigafoos,

a sophomore at this institution, majoring in napkin folding, sent
an invitation to a young man named Fafnir Valve, a junior at

the Joyce Kilmer School of Forestry, majoring in sap and boles.
Serafina had been ape for Fafnir since high school, but Fafnir
preferred a girl named Gelia Fleshwound, the high school drum
majorette who once threw a baton so high she impaled a south-

bound mallard.
Anyhow, Serafina sent an invitation to Fafnir, and he came,
and she showered him with kindness and cuff links, and then

he went away, and Serafina sat anxiously by the mailbox,
wondering whether she would ever hear from him again. Sure
enough, two weeks later she got a letter: ‘‘Dear Serafina, Can
you let me have fifty bucks? Yours, Fafnir.”’

Whimpering with ecstasy, she ran to the bank and withdrew
the money and mailed it to him. From then on, she got the
same request every week, and as a result, she became very well
acquainted with Ralph T. Involute, teller of the West Linotype
Bank and Trust Co., and their friendship ripened into love, and
today they are happily married and live in Stamen, Oregon,
where Ralph is in the extruded molasses game and Serafina

is a hydrant.

© 1960 Max Shulman

* * *

Every weekend is a party weekend with Marlboros—or Marl-
boro’s unfiltered companion cigarette—mild, flavorful Philip
Morris. Try the newest Philip Morris—the sensational king-
size Commander. Have a Commander—welcome aboard!

    
Page 4

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

Frosh Football

(Continued from page 3)

and drove all the way to score. The
visitors also added the two extra
points, the only successful conver-
version of the afternoon. W&L struck
back near the end of the first quarter
and scored on a 16 yard pass from
John McDaniel to Stu Yoffe. Fer-
rum scored again in the second quart-
er after recovering a bad pitch-out
on the W&L 23. The half ended with
the Generals trailing 14-6.

The Panthers had another scor-
ing opportunity in the third quart-
er when a pass interference penal-
ty gave them the ball on the W&L
25. This time the General defense
tightened and held Ferrum for the
4 downs. W&L scored for the sec-
ond time when Mike Sheffey inter-
cepted a pass on the Ferrum 27 and
McDaniel again hit Yoffe on a pass
play for the score.

In the final minutes of the game
Ferrum took the ensuing kickoff
and went 54 yards in two plays to
boost their advantage 20-12. Yoffe
took the kickoff on the W&L three
yard line and scampered 97 yards
behind fine blocking to score. Henry
Sackett was stopped short on the try
for two extra points. W&L got the
ball again with a minute left, but
time ran out with the Generals on
the Ferrum 40 yard line.

 

Dr. Moses Hadas S peaks
On Ancient Greece and US

(Continued from page 1)

of a great driving force of self-
interest, and there are both good
and bad qualities in all of them.”

“The Romans let self-interest fade,
however,” said Dr. Hadas, “and Hu-
manism as a force faded until the
Renaissance.”

Then, he pointed out, this obsession
for self-interest arises again in the
individualistic, yet imitative, styles
of the Renaissance men.

“People began looking for some-
thing worthwhile, and happened to
find it in classicism. But the bond
was not some intangible ethical doc-
trine of Humanism, but instead a
bond of scholarship, and individual
scholarship at that.”

 

 

STANLEY WARNER

STATE

LEXINGTON, VA.

 

 

WED.-THURS.

            
    

 

VICTORIA

Aces i

in the CHARLES H. SCHNEER Production

 

A MORNINGSIDE
PRODUCTION

(Continued from page 2)

and embarrassed the State Depart-
ment. To all intents and purposes,
he came out in support of the Alger-
ian terrorists, who throw bombs into
cafes, machine-gun beaches, etc. It
was a speech which had effects, far
beyond his dreaming, and was prob-
ably the result of haste without
care,

Senator Kennedy has a tendency
to open his mouth too quickly, to
speak without thinking beyond the
immediate effect of his words.
While this may not be too serious,
perhaps even refreshing, in domes-
tic matters, it is madness in for-
eign affairs.

But there is no reason to be harsh

 

Beats North Carolina State
(Continued from page 3)

fullbacks and scored on a fast break.
Washington and Lee evened the score
up before the end of the first period

a pass from Steve Hawkins and out
manuvered State’s goalie Brough-
ton.

After four minutes of the sec-
ond period Hawkins, from his new-
ly acquired center forward spot
topped off a W&L offensive drive
with a goal that put the home team
ahead to stay.

Play went back and forth during
most of the third period. The off-
side penalties against North Carolina
State and alert play on the defense
helped the Generals’ cause. Later in
the period, taking an out of bounds
kick from Wick Hollingshead, Knight
headed the ball into the nets mak-
ing the score 3-1 for the Blue and
White.

 

when left inside Jim Starkey took |

she he Be Be he Be te te Maite.
eee eer eee

Hoogenboom On Kennedy

with Mr. Kennedy. He can’t be ex-
pected to know much about foreign
affairs beyond what he reads in the
papers. School (the Congress) was
open, but Jack was playing hooky.
Senator Kennedy’s greatest achieve-
ment to date has been to win the
Democratic nomination from poor old
perennial loser Humphrey, a more
than unusually coy Stevenson, dull
Stu Symington, and that vain egotist
from Texas, who was alternately a
Southerner or a Westerner, depend-
ing on whether he wanted to be pres-
ident or vice-president.

Perhaps Kennedy has that old
“communicative warmth” if by that
is meant communication without the
cooling effect of reason, but just be-
cause he makes you feel tingly all
over when he opens his mouth
doesn’t mean he'll have the same
effect on Khruschev.

 

oO
~%

 

%
%
%
—
%
~
7
™
%

IDEAL
BARBER SHOP

QUICK SERVICE

te eho hehe he he Bo taMe

wwew we eee oe

 

 

 

 

Player of the Week

(Continued from page 3)

carry. Charlie scored one touchdown,
ran for a conversion, returned a
kickoff 27 yards, and ran back a punt
return for eleven more.

Although the Hampden-Sydnely
game marked Gummey’s initial ap-
pearance in a starting position, he
still ranks fifth in total scoring with
14 points, third in individual rushing
with a 5.1 yard average per carry,
second in individual punt returns,
and first in individual kickoff re-
turns.

Last year Gummey was named the
outstanding freshman athlete.

 

 

BROWN’S
CLEANING
WORKS
We call for

and deliver
HO 3-2013 14 Randolph St.

 

 

 

 

 

The Southern Inn

Cordially invites you to make this your headquarters for good food
Here you get the best food for the most reasonable prices

Our Specialties:

Steaks, Chicken, Country Ham, and the best sandwiches
in town

Meet your friends here

 

 

 

 

LEXINGTON
CLEANERS

Phone HO 3-3813 108 S. Jefferson

 

 

 

Green Valley Motel

One Mile North on
U. S. Highway No. 11

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA
HO 3-2195

 

 

 

 

 

For those extra pieces

of
FURNITURE

for your room
see our stock
before buying

ee
VARNER AND POLE

 

 

 

 

eles

White’s Music

Store

Expert Repair Service
+

5 W. Nelson St. Lexington, Va.
HO 3-3522

 

 

 

: :

%

KA

%

%

te

= (Opposite State Theater)

oy
Phonographs—Hi-Fi

:
%
$
i

+ '

Bes %

$ %
+

Whe oe sore ofa fee ne oe ofe ne fe ofa she ae oe ae oe fe ste ake ae fe

 

 

a o

  

 

OE ET ee eee

W-ac PEOPLES NATIONAT BAN)

 

Mee

STUDENTS ACCOUNTS INVITED HERE
Member F. D.I. C.

   

 

 

 

a,

a
le
x
a
‘.
.
e
a
a
e
ie
ie
ie
+
.
le
le
4
-
¥
4
ie
ie
e
x
i.
re
4
a
le
e
a
a

Ted’s Steak House

Finest Foods
Choice Meats

w
SUNDAY DINNERS

Route 60 Buena Vista

We Feature

SEALTEST

Dairy Products

“To get the best get Sealtest”
over twenty different products in addition to

delicious Sealtest ice cream

Block and Crushed Ice

Your favorite mixes—Ice Cold

x
Maple-Rock Distributors, Inc.

Phone HO 3-2168

.
ee eee enone noe orto ate ofe ote oe sere fee oe oe eof oe fe ese ese ote oe ese oe eae rede e eo eee

 

ote oeofesfeofenteoentesfeofefeotsfeofenteoeognteotenfeotesfeodenfefeafentendesteoesteoenteofenteofoobntenteoeofestesetenteobteok

MF Sener deo de ene oe rde oe oe ee ene oe eee eee oe oof oe offend ote of afeate

 

 

 

 

ROCKBRIDGE LAUNDRY

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

and
: : Dry Cleaners
: Shirt Service as You Like it :
- 3 Shirts Transparently Wrapped
% uality Cleaning and Pressin *
% Y g g he
+ + for Freshness
”
* UNIVERSITY CLEANERS : +
= HO 3-3622 *
: % AGENTS:
* * ” ’
ey %
: : * Fraternities, Dorms and Co-o
$ “Your Campus Neighbors” z ' P
e %
* +

 

 

 

 

 

 

Tareyton has the taste—

Dual Filter
does it!

Filters for
flavor

—finest flavor by far!

  

NEW DUAL FILTER

ce eee mi ee
a

    

 

 

Here’s how the DUAL FILTER DOES IT:

2. with a pure white outer filter. Together they select and balance
the flavor elements in the smoke. Tareyton’s flavor-balance gives

pw 1, It combines a unique inner filter of ACTIVATED CHARCOAL
? ...definitely proved to make the taste of a cigarette mild and
smooth...

you the best taste of the best tobaccos,

Fy J, : Fs > "ago : : “
Product of She Smenean SsbaccoLompany — Sbacee is our middle name ©4171 &

areyton
FRIDAY
Edition

Che Ring-tum Phi

Washington and Lee Semi-Weekly Newspaper

FRIDAY
Edition

 

Volume LXI

Dr. Robert Bradley Made
Fifth Professor Emeritus

Dr. Robert F. Bradley, retired
chairman of the department of ro-
mance languages at Washington and
Lee University, has been named a
professor emeritus by the univer-
sity’s Board of Trustees.

A member of the Washington and
Lee faculty since 1936, Dr. Bradley
retired last June and is now living
in Columbia, S. C. He was on the
University of Wisconsin faculty be-
fore coming here.

Dr. Bradley was a professor on
the Thomas Ball Foundation at the
time of his retirement. He received
his A.B. degree from the University
of South Carolina in 1911 and his
M.A. there in 1914. He was awarded
his doctorate from the University
of Wisconsin in 1932. Dr. Bradley
is also the author of books on
French literature and grammar.

He is one of five professors emer-
iti at Washington and Lee.

 

 

We believe this is a “Time tor
Greatness.” For editorial on why
Kennedy should be president, see
page 2.

 

Tulane Professor And Novelist
Are Lecturing Here On Monday

Novelist Shirley Ann Grau will
make a special appearance Monday
at Washington and Lee University
under the sponsorship of the Glas-
gow Endowment Fund.

Miss Grau will conduct an after-
noon discussion with selected stu-
dents active in the study of creative
writing. She will talk about the
problems of creative writing.

She is the author of The Black
Prince and Other Stores, published
in 1955 and The Hard Blue Sky, pub-
lished in 1958.

The Louisiana novelist will be
visiting the Washington and Lee

 

Sullins Group
Will Sing With
W&L Glee Club

The combined voices of the glee
clubs of Sullins College and Wash-
ington and Lee University will be
featured in a concert here Monday.

“TeDeum,” the famous liturgical
work by Bruckner will be the high-
light of the 8 p.m. program in the
university’s Doremus Gymnasium.

The two groups will present a
similar concert Friday (Nov. 11) in
Bristol.

50 Voices

The 50-voice Washington and Lee
Glee Club, under the direction of
Professor Robert Stewart, will pre-
sent samplings from folk, religious
and show music for its portion of
Monday’s concert.

“College Friendships,” Johann S.
Bach’s “Good Fellows Be Merry”
from the “Peasant Cantata,” Franz
Schubert’s “Widerspruch” and
“Landsighting” by Edward Grieg will
be among the W&L presentations.

“T Got Plenty of Nothin,” “Come
To Me, Bend To Me” and “I Could
Have Danced All Night” will be
among show tunes sung by the club.

 

campus with her husband, Professor
James K. Feibleman, chairman of
the philosophy department at Tu-
lane University. Professor Feibleman
will speak on the “Importance of
philosophy” Monday at 7 p.m. in
the university’s duPont Auditorium.

A graduate of Newcomb College,
the women’s division of Tulane, Miss
Grau has published stories in lead-
ing literary magazines throughout
the United States. She has done grad-
uate work in English literature of
the Renaissance and the 12th cen-
tury.

Professor Feibleman’s visit is being
sponsored by the Washington and
Lee philosophy department.

A native of New Orleans and a
member of Phi Beta Kappa, Profes-
sor Feibleman is the author of 23
books, his latest being Religious Pla-
tonism, published in 1959. He has
contributed chapters to four other
books. The Tulane professor has
written more than 100 articles for
United States and European journ-
als.

He was educated in the New Or-
leans public schools, attended the
University of Virginia and did five
years of private study in Europe.

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA, NOVEMBER 4, 1960

 

Sazeracs Select
Tartt, Wilson

The Sazeracs, Washington and
Lee’s informal student singing
group, have selected freshman Jo
Tartt, SAE, and Eric Wilson, Delt,
as new members.

Huntley Biggs, president of the
group, stated that more than 20
boys tried out for the two openings.
He said that there will be another
audition in the spring to fill the
spaces that will be vacated by the
graduation of five seniors.

Last year, the 13-man group went
to Florida where they were the
guests of the Colonnade Hotel. Dur-
ing their stay, they presented con-
certs at the hotel and the near by
Tequesta Country Club. Last year
was the third consecutive year that
the Sazeracs were guests of the
Colonnade Hotel.

This year they have similar plans
along with other formal and infor-
mal profesisonal engagements. There
will also be a few volunteer ap-
pearances by the group.

Included in the Sazeracs are Hen-
ry Harrell, Billy Martin and Hardie
Karr, Sigma Chi’s; Bud Lee, Sigma
Nu; Cal deColigny, Beta; Huntley
Biggs, SAE; Wally Cox, Phi Psi.

 

Dr. Turner Announces
Colonial Writing Contest

Dr. Charles W. Turner, professor
of American History, announces the
annual writing contests sponsored
by The Colonial Dames and The
Cincinnati Society. This contest is
held each year and the general top-
ics are Colonial Virginia History and
Colonial Military History. The Colo-
nial Dames have a state-wide con-
test and offer a cash prize of $200.
The Cincinnati Society contest is
sponsored by Washington and Lee
University and offers a prize of $50.

Rules and suggested topics may be
obtained from Dr. Turner.

 

 

Moot Court Team To Meet UVa

The national Moot Court Team of
Washington and Lee University Law
School will enter the regional com-
petition at Wake Forest College in
Winston-Salem, N. C., Nov. 18.

Co-chairmen Robert L. Gilliam, ITI,
and John C. Morris announced that
the team is composed of Thomas B.
Bryant, III, senior law student from
Orangeburg, S. C.; Gerald E. Small-
wood, senior law student from Win-
chester, Va.; and Robert E. Shep-
herd, senior law student from Rich-
mond, Va. Gilliam and Morrison are
both senior law students and _ hail
from Union City, Tenn., and Charles-
ton, W. Va. respectively.

The Moot Court team will take

 

Dunnell Has Lead Role

In Troub’s Opening Play*,

By ANDY LEONARD
Troub Publicity Agent

Male actors will dominate the stage
of the Troub Theatre in Christopher
Fry’s “The Lady’s Not for Burning.”
Eight of the eleven players in the
cast are W&L students, and they are
now hard at work rehearsing for
opening night, Nov. 16.

The play is a comedy in verse
set in the fifteenth century which
demands the services of a domin-
ant protagonist to carry the action.
Dr. Cecil D. Jones, Troubadour fac-
ulty director, has found him in
John Dunnell. Dunnell has shown
the ability to handle the difficult
characterization of Thomas Mendip,
a moody, cynical ex-soldier. He is
quickley mastering Christopher Fry’s
poetry and is expected to excite his
audiences.

Different Character

Two very different characters
share the spotlight with John. Dick
Roberts will handle the part of
Richard, a lowly orphaned clerk ele-
vated by the throes of first love,
while his master, the Mayor Tyson,

 

will be portrayed by the talented
Bob Allen. His controlled comical
voice and his perfect timing are
guaranteed to delight onlookers as
they have in the past.

To play the Devise brothers, Nich-
olas and Humphrey, Dr. Jones has
selected two distinctive, Ron Alen-
stein and Firth Spiegel. Tall and
dark, Firth, as Humphrey, directs
a slow, deep voice of disdain at his
brother, Nicholas. The shorter, light-
haired Ron replies with a sharp,
sarcastic voice just to irritate and
ridicule Humphrey. It is easy to
understand why they almost come
to blows.

Three character parts round out
the male roles in “The Lady’s Not
for Burning.” Merv Clay portrays
the portly justice, Tappercoom, en-
grossed in legalities and pomposity.
Andy Leonard plays the simple-
minded Chaplin, an unfavorable
symbol of the clergy. The small
role of the drunk, Skipps, will be
taken by Tim Morton. However,
Morton’s contribution to the show
is twofold. As Stage Manager he is
Dr. Jones chief production assistant.

the respondence side of the case:
National Labor Relations Board v.
Blackheart Insurance Company.

Alternates to the team are Ray-
mond Robrecht, senior law student
from Plainfield, N. Y.; William
Moore, intermediate law student
from Norfolk, Va.; and Joseph
Spivey, III, intermediate law sut-
dent from Raleigh, N. C.

The team will face the moot court
team from the University of Virginia
which will take the petition side of
the case and argue against the
Minks.

Other law schools which are
members of this region include the
University of North Carolina, Uni-
versity of Richmond, William and
Mary College, Duke University, Uni-
versity of South Carolina, University
of West Virginia, North Carolina
State College and the host school,
Wake Forest College.

 

  

Major General Barksdale Hamlett

 

Editor’s Note: Statistics released
by the secretary of the Assimilation
Committee indicate that the com-
mittee has been active in maintain-
ing the traditions on the campus and
in town.

The figures also show that the
committee has not been overbearing
in distributing fines to those who
appear before it. In all, 90 persons
have been assimilated. Fifty-nine
of these received fines and thirty-
one were released with warnings.
A majority of those assimilated and
those released have been freshmen
and sophomores. Fifty-one under-
classmen have appeared before the
committee and nearly one-half of
these have not been fined.

The following is a letter to the
Friday edition of the Ring-tum Phi
from a student who is vitally inter-
ested in maintaining the traditions
of W&L. Don Partington, chairman
of the Assimilation Committee writes:
Gentlemen:

In the Tuesday edition of the
Ring-tum Phi, Mr. Gerry Ouellette

 

A Letter To The Editor...

Assimilation Committee Chairman
Gives Views Supporting Traditions

presented his views on our Wash-
ington and Lee traditions.

I am writing a reply to Mr. Ouel-
lette, not in the capacity of chairman
of the Assimilation Committee, but
as a senior and member of the stu-
dent body who is personally offended
by such tirades against this uni-
versity.

I would not disagree with Mr.
Ouellette’s statement of the obvious
fact that the University has made
changes. Nor would I disagree with
his statement that idealism elevates
man. However, Mr. Ouellette seems
to be operating under one basic fal-
lacy. He has reduced his attacks to
broad generalizations which are not
entirely substantial. I would not dis-
agree that there are some students
because of a sophomoric attitude to-
wards university life in all of its
phases are the only students who
wish to abolish our speaking tradi-
tion and conventional dress. How-
ever, this same student, who refuses
to buy a dance plan, snubs his nose

(Continued on page 4)

 

Number 15

Gen. Hamlett To Speak November 15
On ‘Army Role In Modern

Warfare’

W&L ROTC
Sponsors Talk

Major General Barksdale Ham-
lett will speak in Lee Chapel on
Tuesday night, Nov. 15, at 8 p.m.,,
on the subject of “Planning for the
Army’s Role in Modern Warfare.”
The talk is being sponsored by the
Military Science Department of
Washington and Lee.

Since his graduation from the
United States Military Academy in
1930 and commissioning in the Field
Artillery, General Hamlett has serv-
ed with distinction in both World
War II and the Korean War.

General Hamlett’s education has
continued throughout his military
career and has included the com-
pletion of courses at the Field Army
Regular School in 1935, the Ecole
Superieure de Guerre in 1946, and
the National War College in 1949.

His pre-war duty included assign-
ments at Fort Sam Houston, Texas,
Schofield Barracks, Hawaii, and Fort
Sill, Oklahoma.

During World War II he served in
the United Kingdom, North Africa,

x and Central Europe. In October 1946

he was appointed gunnery instruc-
tor at the Artillery School at Fort
Sill, and later became the director
of the Department of Gunnery in
July 1947.

He went to Korea in December of
1951 for duty as artillery command-
er of the 24th Infantry Division. It
was during this tour of duty that
he achieved the rank of Brigadier
General.

General Hamlett returned to Eu-
rope in 1957 where he was appointed
United States Commander, Berlin
(USCOB) and Deputy Chief of the
United States Mission, Berlin. This
assignment continued until Dec. 3,
1959.

Upon returning to the United
States, General Hamlett was ap-
pointed to his present position as
Assistant Deputy Chief of Staff for
Military Operations, Department of
the Army.

General Hamlett’s citations and
awards include the Silver Star; Le-
gion of Merit with Two Oak Leaf
Clusters; the Bronze Star; Army
Commendation Ribbon; Czech War
Cross; and the United Nations Serv-
ice Medal. :

General Hamlett is married to the
former Frances Underwood of Bowl-
ing Green, Ky. The Hamlett’s have
one daughter, Otila, who is married
to First Lieutenant Robert F. Stan-
ley, of the West Point class of 1955.

 

W&L Religious Emphasis Week

Interest Is Aroused By Lectures

By JACK EURE
Staff Reporter

Dr. David W. Sprunt, Chaplain
of Washington and Lee University,

 

spoke Tuesday night in the Student
Union Building on the attitudes of

 

Dr. Cecil Jones.

John Dunnell talks over his part in the forthcoming Troub play with

 

—Phote by Renshaw

 

Christians toward non-Christian re-
ligions.

The talk was one of a series de-
signed to stimulate students to
think about religion in preparation
for the lectures which Dr. Nels F. S.
Ferre will deliver during the Reli-
gious Conference.

The annual event will get under-
way Wednesday with a talk by Dr.
Ferre, a member of the Andover
Newton Theological Seminary.

Dr. Ferre will speak to the en-
tire student body at 12 noon in
the university’s Doremus Gymnas-
ium. He will talk on “Biblical
Faith and Modern Thought.”

Other visiting theologians for the
three-day conference will be Dr.
David Wice, rabbi of Congregational
Rodeth Shalom in Philadelphia, and
the Rev. Francis R. McCarthy, pastor
of St. Patrick’s Roman Catholic
Church in Lexington.

Dr. Wice and the Rev. Mr. Mc-
Carthy will deliver talks during
night sessions of the conference.

Each speaker will conduct class-
room discussions and informal pri-
vate talks with students. George
Birdsong, a junior from Suffolk, is
chairman of the event.

Sprunt Said
“Christians,” said Dr. Sprunt,
“have three different prospectices
concerning non-Christian religions.”
They are namely, the “traditional

orthodox,” the “liberal,” and the
“mediating” attitudes.

The “traditional orthodox” attitude
assumes an exclusionist’s view, for it
sets up Christianity as the only true
religion, the only road to salvation;
thus it requires a complete break
from all other religions.

Must Find God

Those who have a “liberal” atti-
tude, on the other hand, violently
oppose the exclusionist’s point of
view and contend that every person
must find God for himself in his own
way. Other religions, believes the
“liberal,” are striving for the same
goals and achieving the same re-
sults as are Christians; only they
are going about the work in differ-
ent ways. The Hindu saying, “Truth
is one; men call it variously,” well
sums up the “liberal” attitude to-
ward other religions.

As may be suspected, the “me-
dian” viewpoint is more or less a
combination of the first two: for this
attitude is neither one of total ac-
ceptance nor one of total rejection.
Although the “median” concept of
non-Christian religions contends
that the highest truths are found
in Christianity, this attitude does
not deny the virtues of other be-
liefs. Emphasis is placed on person-
al understanding of the religions
of fellow men. A Christian of the

 

“median” attitude is willing to put

(Continued on page 4)
THIS IS THE “TIME FOR GREATNESS!”

“All America speaks on November 8th, and we speak to all |
the world—to freedom fighters in a Polish attic; to Africans |
building a jungle school; to Latin Americans fearing the advent |
of other Fidel Castros; to Japanese mothers still binding up |
the wounds of Hiroshima; to students in Bombay; to editors |
in Beirut; to all who wonder which way lies the future—with | nationally. Once we are cognizant of our present position we
freedom or with slavery. America will speak to all of them on)

November 8th—and to Mr. Khruschev, too.”—Senator John |
F, Kennedy.

Washington and Lee, it appears, spoke on October 3 1st— |
or was it a voice at all? The blatent, satirical observations of |
a Tuesday columnist reflect the sentiment of many here. Unfor-
tunately the above mentioned columnist not only imputes
motives to the individual candidates, but no doubt would also
boast of his experience and knowledge of foreign policy as

superior to that of one of the aspirants. The campus survey |

would lead us to believe that the 47 per cent of the student body

who spoke here Monday were heralds of world opinion. |

However, we feel that this like most polls will prove inaccurate,
and the Tuesday column, like most columns, tasted of a destruc-
tive, negative element—that motivation which continually de-
sires the abolition of traditions, societies and the like. This
bias criticism rather than constructive, logical and dedicated |
reason is a cancer of journalism.

This ‘journalistic negation” is not the common voice of an
idealistic America, nor for that matter, Washington and Lee.
Our thoughts are positive, although we are ever mindful of
negative threats; our goals are idealistic, although we are
checked by conservative satisfaction; and our intentions are
good though often branded by ignorance and error.

Next Tuesday America’s voice will be heard. Voting trends
will reflect particular sentiments—often regional. Not every
American will vote with the same conviction. A president will
be elected, however, and it will be the duty of every loyal citizen
to rally behind him—not necessarily cherishing his means, for
they will be challenged, but sharing with him a goal for the
future of America.

This goal is crucial, and the means, as the campaign issues
suggest, are also important. Sen. John F. Kennedy is an idealist,
but his idealism is not a reservoir of lip service. He recognizes
the critical fact that America must move toward her goal as
a nation, acknowledging her present situation as potentially
dangerous, and realizing the hope for the nation as it must
be. So far, time has tolerated our static trend, but if history
repeats itself, our clocks had best be rewound.

Senator Kennedy recognizes the domestic crisis as well as
international peril. As has been suggested by a political analyst,
his opponent, Vice-President Nixon also harbors an awareness
and cherishes goals, but Nixon has been telling the voters:

“Elect me and Lodge, and we will arrange it for you.” Mr.

views to a cause whose shadow looms over Eastern Europe

Che Bing-tum| [Phi

Kennedy’s constant appeal to America has been: “Wake up,
go to work, realize the deadly seriousness of the contest, and
persevere.”

Kennedy is no soothsayer, he is only calling for a realistic
appraisal of this nation’s status, both domestically and inter-

should be better able to work for the realization of our ideals.
| These ideals must be realized, or we ultimately will fall subser-

and now ninety miles from our southern coast. The com-
| munist threat advocates a firm policy, it definitely has an ideal
|to which their whole system is oriented and the realization of
this ideal will remove our country from the face of the earth.

If our domestic posture continues in stagnation, we can
hope for nothing short of malignancy, both in its governmental
and social, as well as economical ramifications.

The following observation was made recently by a noted
commentator in The Washington Post:

“It has been said that the hard doctrine which Kennedy
preaches downgrades America. Quite the contrary. The preach-
ers of the hard doctrine, which calls for effort and sacrifice, '

 

 

| placency, who shock the people with the bitter truth, are the
ones who believe in their people, who believe in them enough |

gence, do not downgrade the nation. They force it to look at its

have usually been, like Winston Churchill in the days of Stanley
Baldwin, the greatest patriots and the truest servants of the
| people.

“Those who arouse the people from torpor and com-

to summon them to greatness. The Churchills who cry out when
the people are lazy, selfish, and sluggish with private indul-

best possibilities, and in doing that they revivify, they rejuven-
ate, they renew the spirit of the people, and invest them with
pride that goes with the full exercise of human powers.”

We have stated previously the analogy that can be drawn
between the progressive reform advocated by Senator Kennedy
and the progress anticipated by a university community such
as Washington and Lee. Both are promoted through sound
judgment and an understanding of the needs in those areas un-
der consideration; both have a goal—be it national or academic
excellence; both are dedicated to the removal of derelection of
any form. If we are cognizant of both these ideals and pay lip
service to neither, we are more apt to secure both the blessings
of liberty and the fruits of a good education. On the other hand,
if we become smug and self-satisfied with the ever-available
status quo, and settle down amid a guise of conservatism, then
we cannot expect our institution (nation or university) to
meet the requirements of survival in an age which enjoys con-
stant and considerable flux.

Now is the time for greatness! Rather we should tighten
our belts than chains. Sacrifice on the part of a nation or an
individual is not a glamorous vote appeal—it is stimulated by

 

the sharp sting of reality. This sting can be temporarily soothed
by the tranquilizers of illogical boasting and political chest

 

 

pounding, but the poison is under the skin and only through
its removal will the wound heal and vitality be restored.

Senator John Fitzgerald Kennedy is a man who can lead
this country with purpose and courage so that it may coalesce
in strength and move toward a realization of its potential as a
nation. His victory will not be an easy one Tuesday, nor will
our victory be an easy one from now on. A man seldom finds
spiritual meaning by assuming or affecting a false air of piety.
It is usually secured by an honest self-appraisal and dedication
and by getting down upon one’s knees. So shall this nation
realize its future, and of such shall we speak.

 

Kennedy: A Positive Program

Students Shouldn’t Be Required
To Attend ‘Emphasis Week’ Meets

By JIM VANN as it is fine for the English Commit-

For Leadership

By Robert Ketcham
Friday Political Writer

This campaign has now progressed
to the point of differentiating the
two candidates and committing most
of the voters. It has not been like
an action of law where the moot
question is inadmissible, but an
open field of activity with never
ending crescendo. Mr. Kennedy has
directed his thoughts to a more vig-
orous country, while Mr. Nixon has
constantly maintained that we are
in excellent health, but could im-
prove a bit.

There is a deep-seated difference
in the candidates which becomes in-
creasingly clear. Mr. Kennedy is
liberal by conviction and campaigns
in the same spirit, “It is reasonable
to say we've got to do something
about low-income housing, we’ve got
to do something about minimum
wages, we've got to do something
about our schools. Reason tells me
we've got to do these things.”

Nixon Wants Image

Mr. Nixon is liberal by political
pragmatism, there is no philosophic
base to his thinking. He is what he
thinks the people want him to be;
he looks for his image in their eyes.
He is willing to use Madison Avenue
tactics and talk down to those who
treat him as just another product.
Perhaps this approach will get him
votes, but it is not the kind of ex-
perience that will count when is-
sues of leadership arise after inaugu-
ration.

Admittedly, it is hard to identify
oneself with the type of administra-
tion now in power, and at the same

 

time criticize its weakness. However,
Mr. Nixon had the opportunity to
campaign in a Rockfeller-like man-
ner with an assessment of the na-
tional situation and an appeal for the
vice-president to lead it forward. He
did not do this; in extemporizing
the soft doctrines and searching for
issues he has lost much ground and
has now reverted to the President’s
coattails.

In the field of foreign affairs there
is one similarity: neither candidate
has taken an admirable stand on
Cuba. Mr. Kennedy’s advocating
U.S. aid for anti-Castro rebels is
sad because his campaign has been
relatively rational. Nor is he to be
excused because his opponent Mr.
Nixon, in a masquerade of horror,
followed in similar manner by stating
that we repeat in Cuba “what we
did with Guatemala” (which was a
U.S.-financed uprising.)

Foreign Policy Issue

Foreign policy was the big issue
in the 1956 campaign. It still is. Mr.
Nixon’s bold assertion that “at the
present time American prestige is at
an all time high” is a bland assur-
ance which even Administration re-
ports do not back up. The Ameri-
can Image, in adman’s language,
is an important quotation on the
international market. Mr.

chosen to say that it is downgrad-|
ing America to talk of declining pres- |

tige, and this long after the con-
cealed report had been made to the

National Security Council of which |
(who |

Nixon is a member. Mr. Alsop
is admittedly pro-Kennedy) consid-
ers the ignoring of the report a mor-
al question, in that Mr. Nixon is

Nixon has |

In The Sixties

consciously deceiving the nation. To
this writer it is merely pathetic; it
is the saddest kind of spectacle to
see an intelligent man like Mr. Nixon
so caught up with his own campaign
web that he must go this far to at-
tempt escape.

Set Moral Tone

The President of this country needs
to be of strong character, granted
he must also be a politican or hero,
but he needs a fiber of courage to
lead and set the moral tone for
America. Several instances give con-
cern to this writer as to Mr. Nixon’s
capabilities: if he is elected, I hope
I am wrong as to capabilities, but at
least they should be stated. Mr. Nix-
on attacked Truman’s firing of Mac-
| Arthur and introduced a resolution
demanding the General be restored
to his post. However, when he ran
for Vice-President he made much
of Eisenhower’s pledge to seek an
armistice in Korea. MacArthur was
fired for advocating a “hot pursuit”
which would have pushed the war
into China, while the
wished to fight a limited war of
containment.

Mr. Nixon voted to kill the Trade
Agreements Act in 1949, although he
| has generally taken a liberal trade
| position. He was one of the original
sponsors of the Bricker Amend-
| ment in 1952, an issue not entirely
dead even today, but has associated
'himself with the President’s oppo-
| sition to the amendment. When Mr.
Stevenson proposed unilateral sus-
pension of nuclear tests, Nixon de-
| nounced it, saying, “Mr. Stevenson’s
| brand of peace seems to amount to
| achieving peace through weakness.”

 

 

| agencies;

President |

 

He has defended Mr. Eisenhower’s
unilateral suspension of tests, never-
theless, as a proposal of strong ini-
tiative. Mr. Nixon endorsed the
repeal of the Connally Amendment,
along with the American Bar Asso-
ciation and others. Three weeks ago
he reversed and is now committed
to support the amendment. When Mr.
Eisenhower calls for a “man who
will think first and then act wisely”
he forgets, as do others who talk of
opening mouths too quickly, of Nix-
on’s public advocacy of intervention
in Indochina by American ground
forces in 1954, and these afore-
mentioned reversals.

Another major difference is the
candidates’ philosophy of govern-
ment; and it is this area that W&L
men seem to be the most concerned.
On the one hand government is con-
sidered inherently dangerous and |
undesirable, there being a pronounc- |
ed preference for non-governmental

 

 

on the other it is wel-
comed, it is deemed the appropriate |
instrumentality for promoting the |

Three Recessions, 7 Years |

Neither Mr. Eisenhower nor Mr.
Nixon mentions economic growth as
a method of paying for further pro- |
grams. It is because the administra- |
tion has no way of combatting infla-
tion except for an almost chronic de- |
pression. Nixon says the nation is
producing a great deal of wealth, |
so it is. However, it is relatively less |
than most all our industrial competi- |
tors. Mr. Kennedy would raise so- |
cial security taxes to finance medi- |
cal care, reform the tax structure to |
take in more revenue by closing well |

(Continued on page 4)

|
|
|

Friday Columnist

As I have so often remarked, this
has certainly been an eventful and
progressive year
here at Washing-
ton and Lee. Not
only have there
been physical
changes, but there
have also been
many worthwhile
changes in the cat-
alog. But there is
still one area of
the University
policy that I feel
is ready for some
very definite modification and
change. This is the conduct of the
University Religious Emphasis
Week—an event that is all too soon
to be upon us. It is certainly not
my purpose to belittle the intent
and, I’m quite sincere, the sincerity
that is behind this week; but I do feel
that it is a very grave imposition
upon the student body-at-large to
force them to attend assembly and
shorten the classes for several days.

Vann

To a great many people, myself
included, religion is a very personal
matter and there is, to these people,
something very unappealing about
“Emphasis Weeks.”

This is not to say that I am ques-
tioning the right or the good taste

| of the Christian Council to hold these

meetings, but I am questioning the
validity of the University in making
the student body subscribe to them.
By forcing a great many indifferent
men to participate in a program in

| which they have absolutely no in-

terest, one encourages a response of
| the worst sort—such as, offensive
i flippancy or even worse, sickening
| hypocracy. To those who have no
interest, the assembly itself is an
irritating interruption.

It is fine for the Christian Council |
to sponsor a group of speakers just

 

tee on Seminars to sponsor their
speakers; but I wonder why it is
that the one gets the benefit of
shortened classes and a command
audience while the other must sand-
wich itself in some evening be-
tween quizzes? The reason is cer-
tainly not in the calibre of the men
that the different groups invite to
speak! No offense to the Christian
Council’s choice of speakers, but
these other groups have probably
much more eminent men— eminent
in the sense that their national pres-
tige is higher—and yet they aren’t
given all these fringe benefits.

The point then is simply that I
do not feel that it is fair for one
group here on the campus, especial-
ly a group that is concerned with
very private and personal matters,
to be given a position of enforced
prominence. If the calibre of the
Religious Emphasis Week is of such
a nature that the majority of the
student body choose to attend, all
well and good.

But, if the majority of the students

(Continued on page 4)

Che Ring-tum Phi

Friday Edition

The Ring-tum Phi is published Tues-
day and Friday during the college year.
It is printed by the Journalism Labor-
oe? P reas. Washington and Lee Uni-
versity 1e mailing address is Box
899, Lexington, Va, és

Entered ag second class matter Se »p-
tember 20, 1946 at the Post Office. Lex-
peton, Va., under the act of March

National Advertising Representative
The National Advertisers Service. Inc.
420 Madison Ave., New York, N.Y.
Editor-in-Chief................Nathan Simpson
Business Manager ..Huntley Biggs

Editorial Board
Managing Editor George Honts
Assistant Managing Editor beieiidi 2

Us eetmeemnbiierennian ass Roy Goodwi
News Editor....... , “Andy Wea
Sports Editor....... Bill Outman
Associate Editor w.Tom Rains
Copy Editor Tom Jordan
Photography Editor..Clarence Renshaw

 
nnn

 

THE RING-TUM PHI

Page 3

 

Generals Carry 5-0-1 Mark
Into Carnegie Tech Game
Tomorrow At Pittsburgh

winning touchdown.

Doug Martin, 159 pounds of power; turned passer last week against |
He got the drive rolling by tak-

from Ft. Thomas, Ky., who is fast} Hampden-Sydney.

Injury-Riden Freshmen
Tackle Massanutten Sat.

Four key injuries may prevent Washington and Lee’s fresh-
man football team from posting its first winning season since
the start of the non-subsidized athletic program. The Brigadiers
face Massanutten Military Academy tomorrow at Weedstock,
Va., in their season final.

The Brigadiers, who have rolled up a 3-2 record so far,

go into their last game without the*

 

becoming a do-everything-well foot-
ball player, will get another chance
to show his versatility tomorrow
when the Generals tackle Carnegie
Tech at Pittsburgh.

Not settling for anything less
than perfection, the little fullback
faked a power play to the left, then
fired a 29-yard scoring strike to
end Ned Hobbs, which gave the

Martin, who has paced the W&L | Generals a 14-7 win,

ground gainers all season and who
has gotten the Generals out of four

In fact, Martin was the key in

jams with 50-yards-plus quick kicks, | the Generals’ 80-yard drive for the

 

      

songecent
4

seonivonet

4
ro
cmon

 

ood

j
Sneed

ing a short pass from quarterback
Steve Suttle and racing 26 yards
to the W&L 46. From the 50, he
powered 13 yards up the middle and
finally from the 29, he heaved the
scoring pass to Hobbs.

Statistically Martin has gained
442 yards on the ground in 66 car-
ries for a 6.7 average. He has scored
three touchdowns and a two-point

 

PAT. He has completed one of two
passes for 29 yards and a touchdown.

|He has caught three passes for 56
'|yards. He has quick kicked four

‘times for a 50.8 average.

Yes, indeed, as Coach Mc-
Laughlin said, “Martin is becom-
ing a do-it-all player.”

|
|

Carnegie Tech, the Generals’ op-
ponent tomorrow, boast a 3-3 record.
The keys to the Tartans’ attack
| are ends Larry Arendas and Marty

| Poad, who, according to the Car-

 

a |negie Tech football pressbook, are

__} | probably the best pair of ends the

PiKA I-M Tennis Champions—standing Ray Lovelace, John Gillette, Paul
Scoville, and Johnny Graham. Seated, Bill Davis, John Trible and Tim
Ireland.

| Tartans have ever had and this in-
cludes the ends of Tech’s big-time
era.

Both Arendas and Poad were
particularly pesky in Carnegie
Teche’s 20-16 win over the Gen-
erals last year.

Poad is the favorite target of
quarterback Alex Bouxein while
Arendas is a defensive stalwart who
specializes in blocking punts and
stopping touchdown drives.

The Generals should remember
one of Arendas’ specialties. The tall
end blocked two W&L punts last
year that gave the Tartans short

(Continued on page 4)

 

 

PiKA Captures Intramural Tennis Championship;
Delts Take Unofficial Lead In I-M Standings

Thus far Washington and Lee’s
Intramural program has seen the
completion of only three of the fall
sports—track, swimming, and recent-
ly tennis.

In a close fought match for the
tennis championship, the PiKA’s de-
feated the Betas, the Law School,
and the Phi Kaps for the tennis
crown. Although this championship
has been decided, the points for all
house has not been determined, and
therefore cannot be included in the
tabulation below.

In the season’s first event, Immediately
track, the Delts captured the COv- | a sssegupstteesteteitetiaedeteletet tet PURCHASE DRUGS
eted crown on the basis of captur- HO 3-2211

ing 50 points in both participa-
tion and board points. They were
followed by the Phi Delts, KAs,
and SAEs.

In the only other I-M sport to

 

 

 

reach completion, the Phi Psis cap-
tured the swimming championship
with the SAEs, Phi Phis, and Delts
rounding out the top contenders.

At present, there are still two
contests in contention before the fall
season will officially draw to a close.
The league playoffs are still in pro-
gress for the golf crown, while the
touch football program has just be-
gun.

In this year’s football contest
there appears to be a close race
in the making. Last year’s champs,
Beta, has been tied by the PEPs

 

NEW TOWN INN

eee

Short Orders—Lunches

%

%

%
: '
5 %
% : *
: Catering to Students :
%

Hehe rhe forte forte nde rhe fe rte fe sfonde afe ote ole oe ole oke oho roots

 

THE DUTCH INN

For Reservation Call
MRS. KATHERINE ADAMS
HO 3-3433

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

TEXACO
Super Service Station
Lexington, Virginia
Corner Main and Nelson
©00000600060080000080860808006000

 

 

 

FORMAL WEAR

 

and
Complete Formal Accessories
The

COLLEGE TOWN

Shop

 

 

 

 

 

while runner-up PiKA has defeat-
ed the Phi Gams. Also in conten-
tion, and considered a real threat
is the Law School team which has
defeated the Phi Delts and the
ZBTs already this year.

League bowling began last Wed-
nesday evening and will continue
throughout the fall season and into
the winter competition.

 

 

TOLLEY’S PHARMACY
Prescriptions Filled

 

 

 

Hamric and Sheridan
JEWELERS

Watch and Jewelry Repair
Hand Engraving and Class Rings

HO 3-2022

 

 

 

JOHN McDANIEL
... Freshman Quarterback

» good passing attack and a fast team,

» They are about our size.”

services of starting center Mike
Sheffey, first team linebacker Jack
Neal, and quarterback A. J. Bar-
ranco.

Halfback Stuart Yoffe, who scor-
ed all 18 of the Brigadiers’ points
in a 20-18 loss to Ferrum Junior
College last week, is a doubtful
starter because of a sprained ankle.

Yoffe injured his ankle midway
through the Ferrum game, but the
injury did not seem to slow him
down. In the fourth quarter, he out
ran the whole Ferrum team, racing 97
yards with a kickoff for the final
W&L touchdown.

In appraising Massanutten, Coach
Hal Bates said, “Massanutten has a

but I think we can handle them.

Massanutten has compiled a 3-2
record in its first five contests.

The W&L freshman team, which
is being called the best freshman
squed in years et W&L, boasts a
speedy backfield and a stout line.

 

Yoffe and halfback Henry Sackett
supply fast, outside running while
fullback Sid Butler is a powerful
up-the-middle man.

Quarterback John McDaniel and
a trio of glue-fingered receivers—
ends Ed Croft and Buck Oglivie
and Yoffe—give the Brigadiers a
potent passing attack.

Anchoring the offensive line are
Croft, Oglivie, Bob Henley, Jim
Sylvester, Charlie Savage, and Wil-
mont Kidd.

The second unit, sparked by
George Craddock, Neal, John Madi-
son, Jim McCeneny, and Barranco,
is Coach Bates’ defensive team.

In collecting their 3-2 record, the
Brigadiers whipped Hargrave, 20-0;
Woodberry Forest, 13-0; Augusta,
23-13. They lost to Staunton, 7-6,
and Ferrum, 20-18.

The team has played exceptionally
well despite several minor injuries
and despite their great handicap of
non-subsidization. Much credit is due
to Coach Bates, but especially for this

 

Bootmen Aim Toward Roanoke’s ‘Homecoming’
With Improved Offensive Unit; Knight Injured

Tommorrow, the Washington and
Lee soccer team will be seeking their

fourth victory of the season when! that the starting nucleus will be

they meet Roanoke College in Salem,
Va.

This game should prove to be a!
rough one for the Blue and White:

not only because of the fact that
Roanoke has an experienced squad,
but also due to the fact that it is
“Homecoming Weekend” in the Star
City, and believe it or not, the day’s
big game will be soccer!

The Generals, however, will be
operating at almost full strength,
with the only player on the dis-
abled list being Co-captain Dave
Knight. Several of the team will

Peoerererrervrrrererrrrs

= R.L. Hess and Bro. ‘
< JEWELERS
Lexington, Virginia
HO 3-2833

eee bee eee ete torte

 

 

 

TETLOW
TV Service

221 S. Main HO 3-2841

 

 

 

 

 

FOR ROOM RESERVATIONS—CALL HO 3-2151
LEXINGTON
Large Rooms—vU. S, 11 By-Pass South
Free TV—Phones—Continental Breakfast
Only Motel in corporate limits of Lexington

MOTEL

 

supply lasts).

ing also.

FREE

To every car owning student. A long lasting fine writing ball point
pencil. Guaranteed to run out of ink if you use it, but we will re-
place FREE when you bring it back. (This offer good as long as our

Say fellows, we have a truck load of new tires at unbelievably
low prices. RUSH over and get yours, Expert recapping and repair-

SPENCER GENERAL TIRE CO.

E. Nelson St, Extension

 

 

 

THE COLLEGE INN

The Best Food in Town

American and Italian

Catering to the Students, Faculty,
| and Towns People

OPEN SUNDAYS

 

 

 

 

 

STUDENT
TRAVEL...
STUDENTS

CAN
AFFORD!

40 ITINERARIES
featuring:
Western & Eastern Europe
Scandinavia « Africa
South America « Japan
round-the-world

54-80 days  $825-$2,200

 

TRAVEL-STUDY
PROGRAMS

some scholarship
assistance available

40-70 days $875-$1,080

 

SPRING VACATION
TRIPS

Bermuda « Puerto Rico
Hawaii

from $195

 

OXford 5-5070

 

U.S. NATIONAL STUDENT ASSOCIATION
Educational Travel, Inc., Dept. cn
20 West 38th Street, New York 18, New York

| STUDENT TRAVEL PUBLICATIONS
International Student ID Card
Hostels & Restaurants Handbook
Work, Study, Travel Abroad

 

&

“USNSA 8 a non-profit organization serving the American student community”

 

be playing the game with minor |
injuries, but Coach Joe Lyles feels |

|
in reasonably sound shape.

Another factor favoring the Gen- |
eral eleven is the improvement which |
has come about in the offensive |
scoring attack. The N. C. State game |
marked the first time since the sea- |
son opener that W&L had exhibited |
any real offensive threat.

Steve Hawkins, Charlie Begg, Jim |
Starkey, Wick Hollingshead, and)
Tain Tompkins will be carrying the |

scoring attack to the Roanoke goal,

 

 

and if practice has paid of —~W&L
should have a forward wall that will
score throughout the contest.

Roanoke, although sporting a
losing record, has a strong defen-
sive squad unit headed by center
halfback Jack Klegg, who started

(Continued on page 4)
Lebee REMI deep tee:

 

*%

+ ROBERT E. LEE
BARBERSHOP *
David M. Moore :
Proprietor ;

 

 

Wayland’s Drug Store

Prescriptions, Russell Stover
Candies

Next to Rockbridge Bank

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

BROWN’S

CLEANING
WORKS

We Call for and Deliver
24 Hour Service

Student agents in the
dormitory and fraternities

 

HO 3-2013 14 Randolph St.

 

 

Poets obettetetebetetetetetetedere

 

Lexington
Laundro Matic

209 S. Main

*

HAND IRONED
SHIRTS

Dry Cleaning

Service

for your convenience

 

 

 

 

ROUTE 60 EAST

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ah

 

 

 

 

le i \ 7
= +) =

4 THT
PIZZA , gsi,
HAMBuRGeRs

Across from the White Top Resturant
HO 3-4214

Wash, Grease, Lube, Road Service

Charge Accounts Welcome

©0088 S00 O00088O8F808808 COO 80880008080 9080008888088

PARAMOUNT
YN

DIXON’S

ESSO SERVICE CENTER

IN LEXINGTON

S@EeSOeSSCeesoeeeoeesoeoeece

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

‘.———
oe

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

IoaIa4-}-
i
. HAPPY How n,
eS Lance gluss a
\ TEES. RTS

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
Page 4

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

Assimilation Committee Chairman

Gives Views Supporting Traditions

(Continued from page 1)
at anyone with an an academic mind
and persists in calling anyone who
does not come up to his standards
of social recognition a fish.

Mr. Ouellette, any student will de-
rive from Washington and Lee as
much as he gives to this university.
Granted this is a truism, but you
seem not to be aware of it. You can-
not deny that the friendly greeting
of another Washington and Lee
student is uplifting. You cannot deny
that the wearing of coats and ties is
distinctive. If you are interested in a
university which has no distinctive
qualities, no traits which sets it
apart from other institutions of
learning, you should not be at Wash-
ington and Lee.

Before a boy comes to Washington
and Lee, before he arrives on the
campus, he is aware that this is a
school of fine traditions. Any boy

 

Kennedy Offers
Positive Program

(Continued from page 2)

known loopholes, and give tax in-
centives to capital investment, and
stimulate the growth of the economy
to put an end to the sorry achieve-
ment of the past few years, three re-
cessions in seven and one-half years.

This country has solved the prob-
lems of producing goods, but the
problems of private indulgence and
full exercise of our society’s power is
still with us. A President who can
mobilize public opinion to make
recognizable the urgent needs of
military, economic, scientific, and
cultural power would be one who
has a firm belief that our people can
be summoned. Merely to point out
that this country is great because
it is rude to Khruschev, has kept
China out of the UN, and has a high

who feels he is above traditions has
no place at Washington and Lee.
And I would question the possibility
of abolishing the speaking tradition.
Do we simply announce that tomor-
row nobody will greet another per-
son? Is this what we do? Do we
just throw away intangible qualities?
I question your belief that we must
get rid of a tradition because it does
not reach the ideal state. If you
really believe that we should get rid
of these traditions, perhaps we should
get rid of the fraternity system. Does
100 per cent brotherhood exist in
every house on campus? You also
seem to forget that the changes made
on this campus have been for the
best. I doubt if you believe the abo-
lition of the speaking tradition or
conventional dress would be better
for this campus.

You also misunderstand the pur-
pose of the Assimilation Committee
(a committee which ideally should
not exist). This committee has never
served as a gestapoeing force. If we
have, so has the Executive Commit-
tee.

You should also read the history
of your university. General Lee did
not say a gentleman was only a
man who did not lie, cheat or steal.
Conventional dress and the speaking
tradition are also qualities of a
gentleman. I maintain that the boys
who flaunt our traditions and have
no regard for them, have no place
in this university. You do not advo-
cate a change for the better. You
advocate the abolition of our herit-
age.

Sincerely,

DON PARTINGTON

 

 

me BE

   

 

 

 

standard of living is not enough. FRI-SAT.
JACK HAWKINS
STANLEY WARNER GIA SCALA

STATE

LEXINGTON, VA.

 

 

FRI-SAT.

Robert
Mitchum

Strikes Under
Cover of Night...
And Lives Under
3 Sentence
of Death!

 
   
  
      
  
   
    
 

 

 

 

SUN. - MON. - TUES.
Pre-Release Showing

A NEW KIND OF MOVIE
WITH THAT &

aiagi |
TOUCH! /

REATH"

<SCANDY

LOEW. CHEVALIER ©

GAVIN

  
     

4

ANGELA

CANSBURY

wr TULLIO CARMINATI TECHNICOLOR®
Produced by CARLO PONT! and MARCELLO GIROS!
) Based on a Play written by
Directed by FERENC MOLNAR and

MICHAEL CURTIZ - acapted by SioNey HOWARD

A PARAMOUNT RELEASE

  

MILLY

ROBERTO ISABEL

VITALE « RISSO - JEANS

 

The Wwo-Headed
Spy

A COLUMBIA PICTURE

 

 

SUN.-MON.

   

 

 

 

 

LEXINGTON
HARDWARE
COMPANY

Phone HO 3-2242

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Scholar dollars
travel farther
with SHERATON
HOTELS

STUDENT-
FACULTY
DISCOUNTS

Save on the going prices
of going places at
Sheraton Hotels.

Your Sheraton card gets
you special save-money rates
on singles and greater savings
per person when you share a
room with one, two or three
friends. Generous group rates
arranged for athletic teams,
clubs and college clans
on-the-go.

Send for your Sheraton
Student I.D. Card or
Faculty Guest Card with
credit privileges. Please tell
us where you are a student
or full-time faculty member
when you write to:

MR. PAT GREEN
College Relations Dept.
Sheraton Corporation
470 Atlantic Avenue

 

 

 

Boston 10, Mass.

IFC Blood Drive Is Set
Nov. 18; Thefts Discussed

At a recent meeting of the Inter-
fraternity Council, IFC President
Dave Lefkowitz said the two major
topics discussed were first, the Blood
Drive and, second, the matter of
stealing during party weekends.

As usual, the IFC is sponsoring
a Blood Drive this year in conjunc-
tion with the American National
Red Cross. John Mullin, a KA soph-
more, is chairman of the Blood
Drive Committee. He says that the
drive will take place on Nov. 16
between the hours of 10 a.m. and 4
p.m. A keg of beer will be awarded
the house donating the most pints
of blood and another will go to
the house which has the highest per-
centage of its members contributing.
There are usually two Blood Drives
each year.

On Stealing

Dean Farrar spoke to the IFC
concerning stealing during party
weekends. To avoid theft of dates’
purses it is recommended that each
house provide space for the girls’
belongings. The housemother’s room
was suggested as a place. It is also
recommended that either Proctor
Murray or the police be contacted if
anyone is caught stealing during a
weekend. This policy would tend to
keep town campus friction to a min-
imum, he said.

Students nominated for Wood-
row Wilson National Fellowships
are urged to take the Miller An-
alogies Test Nov. 2 at 3 p.m.

 

 

«Dodge and Dodge Dart
and Lancer

America’s First Fine

ECONOMY CAR
*

Rockbridge Motor Co.
INC.

Phone HObart 3-3146

unnoticed.

 

 

 

Intramural Standings

Listed below are the unofficial
standings of the fraternities in in-
tramural competition. For complete
story see page 3.

1, Delta Tau Delta .................. 185
2. Sigma Alpha Epsilon ............ 164
STP WO WO ncaa 16014
Sg 146
S. FORIGR UIE vcestesiise, 13114
GC TERBOR BIDIR crssssesessssssccssccsssress 130
Te PR BE isi ictsttscccccs, 125
BBG FE iii psi: 121
9. Phi Kappa Sigma .................. 1174
TU TOR TON Piers 101
11. Phi Gamma Delta .................. 99
eS er 9614
13. Lambda Chi Alpha ................ 97
7A, OG TER TAN nn esis 8514
15. Sigma Phi Epsilon .................. 75
Be ME INE assis susie 6014
ee ee 47
Te WEE fidssnsnicconanne 23
At I: BE oiisiscvisisscaccrsnss 23

 

Religious Emphasis Week

(Continued from page 1)

himself in the other man’s shoes be-
fore making a comparison of that
man’s religion to his own. Is this
not the only means of making a
just comparison?

Dr. Sprunt’s talk was followed by
a brief discussion period during
which students and guests had an
opportunity to air their views on
World Religion.

General Bootmen
(Continued from page 3)
at goalie last season. Scouting re-
ports show that although not im-
pressive Roanoke is still to be
considered a formidable opponent.

Last Wednesday, the Baby Gen-

,,| erals closed their season by losing to

the Wahoo freshmen, 3-1. This was
the second encounter with U.Va. for

21 them this season, and improvement

was noted over the previous con-
test in which our neighbors to the
North defeated them 7-1. Their over-
all record for the season was 0-3,

*| yet due to the lack of an actual

freshman team as a playing unit
this is indeed justification for the
season’s showing.

 

5|Student Attendance

(Continued from page 2)

2} elect not to attend the meetings or

hear the speakers, then I don’t feel
that they should be compelled to.
For, if the University is going to
make a policy of rearranged sche-
dules and command assemblies for
one group, then in all fairness the
same consideration should be shown
to all the speakers that are asked
here.

 

 

 

 

SFT ee ee oe eee she oho oe oe oe ofe oe ole oho ole eens

- CALL BY NUMBER
: and Save Time
: LEXINGTON

TELEPHONE CoO.
Be bedeteteoteeteteteoetetetteoetetetee

teterferdeoh heck obesfeods

 

It’s Good usiness
To Do usiness
with IERER’S
PHARMACY
oo

 

HICKMAN’S ESSO

South Main Street
HO 3-2024

rrr ee ee eee
iid ie

iain lit i tat tae

 

 

 

Generals Carry 5-0-1 Mark

Into Carnegie Tech Game
(Continued from page 3)

marches for touchdowns.

Physically, the Generals go into
the Tech game in as good shape as
they went into the Hampden-Syd-
ney contest. Halfbacks Bob Funk-
houser and Skipper Smith are out
for the year, but McLaughlin has
three healthy replacements for
them.

Sophomore Charlie Gummey, who
was quickly switched from right to
left half last week and who shared
the spotlight with Martin, gained
62 yards in 14 carries and scoring
eight points, is again ready for left
halfback duty along with Jim Hick-
ey and Dave Tharp.

Again McLaughlin figures that
W&L’s three-man depth at each po-
sition will play an important role
in the Tech game. The Tartans are
strong but lack depth.

Seeded ete te bet debledetbeet

Baker
Ford Sales

.

+

ie

ie

-

le

i.

o

le

ie

i. @ s

&
s =

%

i.

ke

ie

.

le

-

 

BETTER DEALS

CLEARANCE
of lot for 1961 Models

’
i.

.

. NEW AND
: USED CARS
; Highway 60 East
ie

.

i

 

he Me a Ba te Be Be Be te te Be te te Be BeBe Bede te Be Be a Be Be te Be Be a te te te a te Ba Bate

erherfortorforfe she ste nfo nfo she she she fe ne nfenfe she fe fe feof oe she fe nf oe she she oho sono nfo ofeofe

Sebebeeteteteeteeteeteetetebetetetetetet

 

 

TT ee

Waggy’s Jewelers
35 S. Main Street
Phone HO 3-4121

THE HOME OF QUALITY

 

PO ee eee

ile teat tite

with a powerful yen for excitement. His kind of
excitement — Engineering.

He got what he bargained for (and a little
more) when he joined Pacific Telephone. One of
Stu’s early assignments was to find out how
existing Long Distance networks could be used
to pipeline high speed “conversations” between
computers in distant cities.

The fact that he did a fine job did not go

Today, four years after starting his tele-
phone career, Senior Engineer Stuart Smith
heads a staff of people responsible for telegraph
and data transmission engineering in the huge

FREDERICK R. KAPPEL, President

American Telephone & Telegraph Co.

Expert Motor Work

 

 

FOREIGN CARS AND STUDEBAKER LARKS
OUR SPECIALTY

Open 8:00 a.m.—8:00 p.m.

MAIN STREET MOBIL STATION

 

STU’S EXPLAINING HOW MACHINES WILL
SOME DAY “OUTTALK” PEOPLE

“Stu” Smith graduated from Southern Cal

Los Angeles area. As a pioneer in this new data
transmission field Stu predicts data processing
machines will some day do more Long Distance

“talking” than people.

Stu contacted 12 other companies before join-
ing Pacific Telephone. “I don’t think there’s any
limit to where a man can go in the telephone
business today. Of course, this isn’t the place for
a guy looking for a soft touch. A man gets all the
opportunity he can handle right from the start.
He’s limited only by how well and how fast he

can cut it.”

If Stu’s talking about the kind of opportunity
you're looking for, just visit your Placement Office
for literature and additional information.

“Our number one aim is to have in all
management jobs the most vital, intelli-
gent, positive and imaginative men we
can possibly find.”

BELL TELEPHONE

 

COMPANIES

 

 
TUESDAY
Edition

Che Ring-tun Phi

Washington and Lee Semi-Weekly Newspaper

TUESDAY
Edition

 

Volume LXI

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA, NOVEMBER 8, 1960

Number 16

 

IFC Approves Plan For Hell

 

Tulane Professor Tells Audience

Philosophy Pervades 20th Cent.

By STEVE HENRY

Professor James K. Feibleman of
Tulane University, speaking here
under the sponsorship of the Glas-
gow Endowment Fund, told a duPont
Auditorium audience last night that
philosophy is the dominant force
acting on modern society.

The human mind, said Feibleman,
has four great routes of inquiry—
religion, art, science, and philoso-
phy—and of these philosophy plays
the most important single role.

“Without philosophy, we have
no institutions of any kind—gov-
ernments, no educational systems,
no nothing. There has got to be an
accepted philosophy behind every-
thing we believe.”

“Communism for example, is just
another philosophy, but it is a phil-
osophy made efficient by force in
both Russia and China. And this is
only one example of the power of
philosophy in today’s society.”

“It prevails in every institution,
and is just plain unavoidable for
any of us.”

Fiebleman was lecturing on the
“Importance of Philosophy,” a
subject too broad for the short time
he was allowed. But he held his
audience with a series of philo-
sophic anecdotes and a generous
helping of 20th century “sick hu-
mor.”

“The fundamental question is
how and why we came about,” said
Fiebleman. “Now I don’t think any-
one can really hope to answer that,
and especially not me. Once, some-
one asked Buddha six great philo-
sophical questions about the why and
how of mankind, and he said in so

 

many words, ‘How in Hell should I
know?”

“I guess if I were going to be
anything, Fiebleman said, “I'd have
to be a Buddhist.”

“Once upon a time,” Feibleman
said, “I saw a man die—the first
dead man I had ever seen, I asked
my mother if that was going to
happen to me some day, and when
she said it was, I decided I wanted
to go back where I had come from
in the first place.”

“But mother said, ‘That’s impos-
sible! Run along and play.’ and that’s
worried me ever since.”

He then defined existentialism,
saying that a true follower of this
philosophy is not aware of his own
reality until he “is nauseated and in
a state of profound doubt.”

“One existentialist wrote a book
named Nausea. I read it, but I found
the philosophy more appealing than
the title.”

Then he apologized for his jibes.
“T hope there aren’t any existen-«

 

Professor James K. Feibleman

 

tialists out there tonight,” he said.
“Also, I hope there are no tomatoes
or eggs.”

Prof. Feibleman got his points
across in a funny manner.

“We've go to quit making philoso-
phy an out for failure. ‘Taking some-
thing philosophically’ is a ridiculous
expression, especially when applied
to failure.”

“Philosophy only wants to refine
the problems of life, and not answer
all the unsolvables men can dream
up.”

“If philosophy can get complacent
men to quit taking too much for
granted, then half the battle is won.”

 

Home Edition To Handle Returns
In WREL Broadcasts Tonight

Home Edition, Washington and Lee
University’s nightly news show, will
handle all election news for the lo-
cal radio station, WREL tonight.

A 17-man staff will begin broad-
casting at 7:30 tonight from the Uni-
versity’s studios located in Payne
Hall. The staff has been divided into
two teams—one for the national
election and another for Virginia
and local election news.

David Goller, senior PEP, Home
Fdition News Director, said an
election scoreboard will be kept
by the staff in the journalism room
of Payne Hall (Payne 6) for stu-
dents who wish to watch the elec-
tion returns come in.

In addition to receiving election
returns from the Journalism depart-
ment’s Associated Press wire serv-
ice, students will also collect and
compile local election returns. Roy
Goodwin, KA junior, will be in

 

charge of collecting the local re-
turns.

Arrangements have also been
made for Virginia Senator A. Willis
Robertson, of Lexington, to par-
ticipate in the broadcast. Senator
Robertson is up for re-election this
year and has no major opposition.

Goller said that in addition to
giving election returns various mem-
bers of the staff will interpret the
returns from various parts of the
country in order to give listeners a
complete picture of the election.

Members of the Home Edition staff
participating in the special election
night show include: David Goller,
Roy Goodwin, Harvey Allen, Bruce
Whethan, Paul Gilbert, Howard
Schram, Steve Parel, Jerry Verlin,
Spud Slater, Jon C. Peterson, Clar-
ence Renshaw, Jay Ganong, Gene
Hulber, Bob Sykes, Peter Blakeslee,
Dick Kelly, Howard Hammersley,
and Bob Diehl.

Guild Presents Symphony, Pianist
Stewart’s Arrangement Included

By RICHARD CRUSE

The Washington and Lee Concert
Guild will present two concerts be-
fore the Christmas holidays.

On Saturday, Nov. 19, in Doremus
Gymnasium the Concert Guild will
present the Atlanta Symphony Or-
chestra, Henry Sopkin—conductor.
The Atlanta Orchestra’s program will
include “Prelude for Strings” by
W&L Fine Arts Professor Robert
Stewart.

The Atlanta Symphony Orchestra,
is ranked among the twenty-five
major orchestras of America,
Under the dynamic leadership of
Henry Sopkin, the Atlanta Sym-
phony Orchestra extends is varied
activities far beyond its home city
to the concert centers of the seven
Southeastern states.

Henry Sopkin falls into a some-
what elite group of American-born
musicians who are conductors of
major symphonies. Only nine of the
30 major orchestras in the United
States employ Americans on the po-
dium.

Mr. Sopkin has been in Atlanta for
the past 15 years and he is credited
with having built the orchestra he
conducts up to its present high sta-
tus. He has served for several years
on the faculty of the Georgia State
College in Atlanta. For several sea-
sons he was on the faculty of Po-
mona College, Claremont, Califor-
nia.

Sopkin has more than 200 works
for orchestra published in his name
and has done work from time to
time for most of the major publish-
ing houses. He is a member of the

Ferre Opens Religious Emphasis

By KEN LANE

National Honorary Music Fraternity,
ASCAP, and a National Patron of
Delta Omicron.

On Dec. 6 Michel Block will give
a piano recital in Lee Chapel. He
will play Partita IV in D Major by
Bach, Sonata in B Minor by Liszt,
Kinderscenen-Op. 15 by Schu-
mann, Trois Movements de Pe-
trouchka by Stravinsky.

Michael Block was born in 1937
in Antwerp, Belgium, of French par-
ents. He now lives in Mexico City
where he made his debut with the
Mexican National Symphony Orches-
tra at the age of 16, playing three
concerts in one evening.

Sullins—W &L Glee Clubs

The Washington and Lee and Sul-
lins College Glee Clubs performed
the first of two joint concerts at
Doremus Gymnasium here last night.

The concert featured perform-
ance by the two clubs of Bruck-
ner’s Te Deum. The nineteenth
century liturgical composition is
considered one of the finest ec-
clesiastical works ever produced.
Ranging from the sweetly flowing
“Salvum Fac Populum” to the fiery
“Te Deum” chorus, it provides a
supreme test for the diversified
voices and moods of a large chorus.
The concert also featured arrange-
ments by the Sullins group of both
spirited and nostalgic tunes. Wash-
ington and Lee’s sixty male voices,
led by Professor Robert Stewart,
sang a mixed program featuring most
of the same pieces they sang here in
the Parents’ weekend concert.

 

Week Observers

{Lefkowitz Seeks Student Support

For “Human Dignity And Decency’

 

7

Troub’s Comedy
A Popular One

By ANDY LEONARD

The Troubadours believe their
fellow students are in for a special
treat when they see Christopher
Fry’s “The Lady’s Not for Burning,”
to be presented Nov. 16-18. Dr.
Cecil D. Jones, the new Troub di-
rector, has selected it as the sea-
son’s first show, convinced that it is
the responsibility of the Troubs to
perform for the students plays of
the highest quality, both classical
and modern. He will not select plays
merely for their popularity.

“The Lady’s Not for Burning” is
not an old play as many seem to
think. In fact, its New York opening
took place exactly ten years ago
last night, with the original London
cast headed by John Gielgud, Pamela
Brown, and Richard Burton. It is a
comedy in verse about a witch hunt
in fifteenth century England. The
frightened and superstitious Mayor
of the town, Hebble Tyson, is de-
termined to burn the _ supposed
witich, Jennet Jourdemayne, whether
guilty or not. The complication comes
when Thomas Mendip, an ex-soldier,
arrives and demands to be hanged in
order to divert attention from Jen-
net.

The play is technically excellent.
Fry’s lines are beautiful, meaning-
ful, and very funny. He manages to
compare things that have never been
compared before and he gives his
characters, particularly Thomas,
some hilarious off-the-cuff remarks
to make.

But “The Lady’s Not for Burning”
is more than just a comedy. It has
deeper meaning. For instance, Fry
protests strongly in the character of
Thomas against the provincial ignor-
ance of men like the Mayor, the
justice Tappercoom, and the simple
Chaplain. Jennet and Thomas come
to value life as they never had be-
fore.

Here is a tip: go to the theatre
next week to have fun, but also
listen closely. Critics disagree about
the meaning of “The Lady’s Not for
Burning.” What do you think Fry
is saying?

NOTICE

There will be a meeting of the
Dance Board on Thursday, Nov.
10, at 7 p.m. in the Student Union.

 

All members are requested to be

The IFC adopted the first draft of a new proposal providing
for a Help Week at Washington and Lee this year. At a meet-
ing last night the group accepted the proposal offered by the
subcommittee by a vote of 15 to 1.

The committee, designed to devise a plan to cut out Hell
Week abuses and work out the mechanics for enforcing their

K proposal, will now attempt to form
a more specific group of proposals
to be presented to the IFC. The
IFC intends to put the plans into
effect during the second semester
of this year.

IFC President Dave Lefkowitz
reminded the group that they de-
cided last spring to take this ac-
tion. After discussion in the var-
ious houses, they also decided to
take a firm and encompassing
stand as soon as possible. He said
that the committee had worked
long and hard in organizing this
proposal,

The committee includes Clinton
Anderson, SPE; Ralph Elias, PEP;
Carter Fox, KA; Ned Olds, SAE;
Stephen Paley, ZBT; and Ed Webs-
ter, Lambda Chi. They are working
in coordination with the Positive
Committee that intends to draw up
a list of specific activities that will
be allowed during the Help Week.

Lefkowitz expressed hope that the
Student Body would provide the nec-
essary support to carry the eventual
plan out successfully.

The first draft, as accepted last
night, is as follows:

Under the present fraternity sys-
tem at Washington and Lee, the
fraternities each year plan a con-
centrated program of activities for
their pledges during the first week
of the second semester. It is our be-
lief that such a week of activities
should continue to exist.

During this week, several valu-
able ends are served. First, pledges,
being engaged in a common field of
strenuous activity, develop a sense
of unity among themselves. Second,
they develop a stronger attachment
to the fraternity in laboring for it.
Third, by obeying orders from upper-
classmen, they are reminded of their
junior position in the fraternity, and
develop respect for the authority of
the fraternity as a whole.

We maintain, however, that no
pledge can increase in his respect
of any individual or group of in-
dividuals which forces him to per-
form deeds that violate his basic
sense of human dignity and de-
cency.

Moreover, we believe that no good
ends are served by submitting the
pledge to physical pain or prolonged
discomfort. By the same _ token,
schemes to cause mental or emo-
tional anguish are also undesirable.

Instead, we hold that the highest
purpose of this Help Week can be
fulfilled by occupying the pledges
with constructive projects and ac-

 

present.

In the fall of 1937, Dr. Ferre be- | himself by writing a research for}

(Continued on page 4)

Wee

2:30 p.m.—lInformal discussion

Dr. Nels F. S. Ferre, one of the | gon his teaching career as Instructor
country’s lesding theolovians, will be ; in Philosophy at Andover Newton.
the main speaker for this year’s Re- There during 1940-1950, he served as
ligious Emphasis Week, Nov. 9-11.| Abbot Professor of Christian Theol-
His first lecture, “Contemporary | °%y. In 1947-48, he was a visiting
Theology,” will be tomorrow, at 12| lecturer to Harvard. He became in
o'clock, in Doremus Gymnasium. /1950 a professor of Philosophical

Currently the Abbot Professor of | Theology at Vanderbilt University
Christion Thesleey ot Andover New- | in the School of Religion, and served

ts Shesladiogds Gabel Oe. Pern | @ this position for seven years. In
: “ : | In 1951-52, he wes a visiting profes-

Carnegie Grant, entitled “The Rela-| with Dr. Ferre on “Contemporary

 

Nels Ferre to speak tomorrow.

 

 

hes lectured extensively in the Unit-
ed St>tes and in England. He is the
author of some fifteen popular books
on theology, including Faith and

Reason, The Christian Undersanding |

of God, and Making Religion Real.

Born in Lulea, Sweden, in 1908,
Dr. Ferre immigrated alone to the
United States at the aze of thir-
teen for his education. In 1931, he
received his A.B. degree at Boston
University, and his B.D. dezree
in 1934 at the Andover Newton
Theological School. Also in 1934,
he was ordained a Congregational
minister. In 1936, he received an
A.M. degree at Harvard. Follow-
ing a year in Europe as a Sheldon
Travelling Fellow, he attained his
Ph.D. from Harvard in 1938.

| sor in theology at Oxford University,
| England, and was at that time a Ful-
| bright Lecturer there. Dr. Ferre re-
| turned to Andover Newton in 1957,
where he has since been the Abbot |
Professor of Christian Theology. '

Achieving prominence as one of |
the foremost theologians, Dr. Ferre |
has held the following positions in |
learned societies: a Co-chairman of |
the Institute of Religious and Social |
Studies in Boston in 1947-48; a mem- |
ber of the Nations] Council on Re-|
ligion in Higher Education; a mem- |

 

ber of the American Theological So-
ciety, of which he was president in |

tion Between the Historical Doctrine
of God and Contemporary Process
Philosophy.”

In addition to his lecture to-
morrow on “Contemporary Reli-
gions,” Dr. Ferre will speak on
“Existentialism” Thursday morn-
ing, and on “World Religions” Fri-
day morning. On Wednesday,
Thursday, and Friday afternoons,
he will have open discussions
dealing with the lecture of the
previous morning.

In preparation for his visit, a series
of discussions has been held in the
last three weeks dealing with each
of Dr. Ferre’s lectures. In addition,
a number of his books have been
purchased and put on sale in the
University Supply Store.

The schcedule for the week is as)

follows:
Wednesday, Nov. 9

Short Classes
12:00—The

University Christian

 

ican Philosophical Society, in which] Ferre. He will speak on “Contem-
| he is a Phi Beta Kappa Associate.| porary Theology.” Required Univer-
In 1950, Dr. Ferre distinguished! sity Assembly. Doremus Gymnasium.

957; end a member of the Amer-| Association presents Dr. Nels F. S. |

Theology.” Student Union.

7:00 p.m.—The University Christian
Association presents Father Francis
| McCarthy, rector of St. Patrick’s
Church, Lexington. “Religion and
the East-West Conflict.” Student
Union.

7:00 p.m.—The University Chris-
tian Association presents Dr. David
Wice, Rabbi of Congregation Rodeth
Shalom, Philadelphia. “Religion,
Sex, and Marriage.” Student Union.

10:30 p.m.—Informal Discussion led
by Dr. Wice. Freshman Dormitory.

Thursday, Nov. 10
Short Classes

10:25 am.—Dr. Ferre talks
| “Existentialism.” Lee Chapel.
2:30 p.m.—Informal discussion
| with Dr. Ferre on “Existentialism.”
| Student Union.

 

on

7:00 p.m.—‘Religion and Racial
Exclusiveness.” Father McCarthy.
Student Union.

7:00 p.m.—“Science and Religion.”
| Rabbi Wice. Student Union.

| (Continued on page 4)
Page 2

Che King-
Tuesday Edition

Member of Virginia Intercollegiate Press Association

tum Phi

 

9 &
Here’s Hoping
We believe the Pied Piper of Hyannisport to be so far into

the forest that he can’t see the trees.
We hope that the American public doesn’t find itself in the |

same position.

W&L Traditions

There has been much talk of late concerning the “tradi-
tions” of Washington and Lee. There are those who argue that
they should be abolished except for the honor system. There are
those who reply that they must be enforced.

Traditions are not concrete things that may be abolished or
enforced. It is true that they may be encouraged or discouraged,
but tradition based on custom cannot be maintained or abol-

ished by decree.

The Southern tradition like the Southern prejudice lives on

despite adverse influence in the

and politics. These traditions have altered somewhat with the
pressures of time and law. Undoubtedly the pressures of time
and changing circumstances will alter them further.

If some school authority were to announce that the con-
ventional dress and the speaking traditions were no longer in
effect, we do not believe that the students of this institution
would stop speaking to each other or even wearing their coats
and ties. There would be that minority which is found in every
body of men that would appear on campus dressed in a sloppy
fashion. We see them now. It is because of them that we have

our Assimilation Committee.

Last week when one of our columnists suggested the aboli-
tion of these two traditions, a storm of indignation swept
through a small portion of the student body, the faculty, and
evidently the Assimilation Committee. At least one professor
was indignant enough to bring the matter up before his classes.
One senior to whom the traditions of our school are especially
dear commented on the column as a nice piece of satire. He
felt that the attack on the traditions would make students more

aware of their existence.

We ask those who would have our traditions abolished to
travel to one of our neighboring state universities and observe
the mode of dress. We feel that they will agree that our time
honored traditions are worth encouraging. We agree with them
that these traditions need encouragement. We do not think that
they have yet reached the mythical stage.

The fact that the proposal of abolition did not draw more
response is alarming. It might be attributed to the fact that no
one took the proposal seriously.

Columnist Sees Khruschev As Key
To Tensions On The World Level

By LANDON BUTLER

Premier Khruschev and his Com-
munist gang have been home for
two weeks and newspaper headlines
have returned to normal. But the
Free World is still guessing at the
motives behind the Russian leader’s
spectacular and disgraceful perfor-
mance in the General Assembly.

Khruschev has worked many years
to build up before the world an
agreeable image of himself. Why
should he suddenly have changed
his tack and resorted to the crude
behavior which he displayed in the
U.N.?

The answer seems to lie in the
fact that the Russian Premier is
walking a political tightrope at
home. In the Communist bloc of
nations, there is currently an
idealogical struggle over the “in-
evitability” of war. Khruschev
maintains that war is not inevit-
able, but that the Communist sys-
tem can win the world struggle by
its economic might.

Opposing Khruschev are the lead-
ers of the Chinese Communist gov-
ernment. They maintain, as did
Lenin, that war is inevitable as long
as capitalism and imperialism exist.

This question is not merely an
academic discussion of Communist
doctrine. Obviously, if war is in-
evitable, then war should be pre-
pared for. And if starting a war will
make it easier to win, then war
should be started.

The question then is whether
Khruschev or the Chinese shall
lead the Communist nations. The
outcome of the stuggle will have
an obvious effect on the Free
World.

Khruschev was in undisputed con-
trol until the U-2 incident. He could
boast to the folks back home of his
“friendship” with Eisenhower, and
was hopeful of a favorable settle-
ment of the Berlin question. To the
Communists, there was every indi-
cation that Khruschev was right,
that war was not inevitable.

The U-2 incident, and stiffened
U.S. policy on the question of Ber-
lin, ruined all this. To the people at
home, Krhuschev was made to look
foolish, and his only hope was to
torpedo the summit conference,

fields of economics, industry,

We hope that this is the case.

thereby saving face. But despite his
antics, the Russian premier remain-
ed weakened.

The General Assembly meeting
in New York provided the perfect
opportunity for Khruschev to re-
gain his lost strength, since the
Chinese Communists would not be
represented. Khruschev alone
would be on the stage for all the
Communist world to see.

Khruschev’s problem then was
how best to please the party mem-
bers at home. He reacted in typical
Bolshevik fashion, and attemped to
cause as much disturbance as pos-
sible.

He used the General Assembly
meeting as a show-case for his own

THE RING-TUM PHI

Glee Clubs of Washington an
page 1.

Lee

   

and Sullins performed last night in

 

3
he

i |

 

Son ee

Doremus Gymnasium. See story on
—Photo by Young

 

Raven Rants

Rel. Week

By GERRY OUELLETTE

Tomorrow the faculty, the student
body and other interested persons
will assemble in Doremus Gymnas-
ium to initiate this year’s Religious
Emphasis Week. Following the open-
ing session, private and public con-
ferences will take place, the theme
of which will be, generally, “Reli-
gions: How and Why.”

We claim that these conferences
are beneficial. We don’t assert, how-
ever, that the intent of Religious
Emphasis Week is to “convert” any-
one. Certainly a program that fea-
tures theologians of the Jewish, Prot-
estent, and Catholic persuasions,
simultaneously, cannot be based on
conversion.

 

It has been our experience to
attend religious conferences here
and elsewhere. It has also been our
past experience to approach re-
ligious conferences with a melee
of attitudes.

Our first and most avid feeling for
religious conferences remains skept-
icism. We cannot help but suspect
that this is also the case for other
students. We don’t particularly
cherish skepticism in the partakers of
religious conferences, but we can
appreciate the part that skepticism
naturally plays when one listens to
a lecture on religion given by a man
of a different religious persuasion.
We bemoan this situation, but we
cannot say sincerely that the feeling
is ill placed.

There is another attitude which
we can assert to be very much in
bad taste during lectures on religion.
This green monster is one very much
in fashion in our beloved surround-
ings: closed-minded prejudice.

We think that the most perfect

Requires Open Mind

attend the lectures with an open-
mind in search of knowledge. We
would recommend that all stu-
dents attend the lectures with the
same attitudes that they main-
tain during any other lecture—
let the scope range from Economics
to Philosophy.

We can do nothing but praise the
members of the University Christian
Association for their work in the past
and for their efforts this year, culmi-
nating in the exciting panel which
they have arranged.

We also feel that each student
should do his part to make the
“Week” a success. The success will
be measured not by the amount of
inspiration the conference has com-
municated—this is utter foolish-
ness—but by the measure of per-
sonal knowledge the individual stu-
dent, faculty member, or other in-
terested person has added to his
store of learning.

We personally believe that this
is the intent of the University
Christian Association, presenting
this program each year, and the
University itself in endorsing the
function. Is not knowledge the sole
purpose of University and student?

May we further suggest that a
gentleman’s code be adopted for the
ensuing conference. If the student
keeps in his mind that he is after
knowledge and nothing else, we be-
lieve that this can be made practical.
The code is simply this: let the stu-
dent question the speaker on any
point that he finds questionable or
ambiguous ON THE FLOOR OF
THE CONFERENCE ROOM. This we
believe to be a more gentlemanly
procedure than the usual amateurish
rehash of the lecture (and the verbal

 

attitude with which to participate
in Religious Emphasis Week is to

“cutting of the speaker) following
the assembly.

 

|
By GEORGE BIRDSONG

World War III, a cold war between

 

propaganda, much as the Bolsheviks

hed done with the Duma in the years |

following the revolution of 1905. The
Russians would probably like very
much to destroy the United Nations,
but as the Communist bloc is not

powerful enough to make a boy-'|

cott successful, they must resort to
internal corruption. This explains
the attempt to replace the Secretary-
General with a committee. And the
premier’s behavior seems to be an-
other attempt to undermine the U.N.
from within. Khruschev, like any
good politician, was trying to please
the folks back home.

From Other
Campi

From The Sophian, Smith College,
Northampton, Mass.

 

Raymond Joel Dorius, associate
professor of English, and Edward
W. Spofford, instructor in classics,
were each given a one year sus-
pended sentence and a five hun-
dred dollar fine in Superior Court
on October 18.

The two professors were con-
victed last week on a charge of
possession of obscene pictures “for
the purpose of exhibition, loan, or
circulation.”

The two men are expected to
appeal the findings.

—Always heard Smith was a stim-

 

ulating school.

Communism and the free world, has
begun. Communism is succeeding in
many parts of the world today be-
| cause peovle like you and I don’t
try to understand Communist fronts.
Therefore, we should consider the
Communist meaning of peaceful co-
existence as it pertains to summit
conferences.

When Premier Khruschev speaks
of co-existence, what he really means
is that what he has is his, and what
we have is his to get. Peace offen-
sives are, of course, the basis of this
co-existence front, and the most ob-
vious of the Communist peaceful
overtures has probably been the
summit conference.

|

What is the Communist policy
toward summit meetings? Four
experts on Communism testified
before the Un-American Activities
Committee in 1958 that “the Krem-
lin looks upon a summit confer-
ence as another weapon in its pro-
gram of global conquest.” Mr. Mc-
Namara declared at this same time
that “in seeking an international
conference, the purpose of the
Soviet Union is not to negotiate
peace but to disarm the West in-
tellectually and psychologically.”

Perhaps we should now look for
more concrete evidence to support
these claims. An American Bar As-
sociation Committee report revealed
that during the last 25 years, the U.S.
' has had over 3400 meetings with the
Communists. These led to 52 major

 

Peace Offensive By Communists
Controls Soviet Policy On Summit

agreements, and Soviet Russia has
broken 50 of them. This is the most
deplorable record in all history for
the violation of solemn traties.

Still, if we do not feel well in-
formed on the official Communist
policy toward summit meetings, we
need only quote Nikita Khruschev
himself. He told the Communists at
the Leipzig Fair in 1959 that “you
should not take too seriously the
treaties made with the imperialists.”
This statement alone sustains the
comment Dr. Dexter Perkins made
recently in duPont Auditorium. He
maintained that Khruschev had
never gone to a summit conference
with pure _ intentions... including
the Paris Fiasco last spring.

So we see that even on an import-
ant issue like the summit confer-
ence, the Communists are insincere.
Furthermore, in 1956, Khruschev
made a statement in Warsaw which
openly reveals a disbelief in the co-
existence policy he advocates in the
U.N. “We must realize,” he told
the assembly, “that we cannot co-
exist eternally. One of us must go
to his grave....So what must be
done? We must push them.” Per-
haps more aptly stated this meant,
“we must bury them.”

I am not inferring we should never
attend another summit conference
with Khruschev, but I am suggest-
ing we must not be so naive as to
believe every agreeable statement
Khruschev makes to be a new and
sincere Communist effort to build
a fertile summit conference, or to

* * *

We wish to thank Mr. Don Part-
ington for his reply to our “tirade.”
We cannot, in sincerety, apologize
for what we said. We write as we
do after observing our beloved Uni-
versity (at which place we are ex-
tremely proud to be), and with the
single ounce of genius that God gave
us we rationalize not with the intent
to crush but to better—create if we
must.

LETTERS

TQ THE

DiTO

3

We received a copy of the follow-
ing letter.

 

Mr. John T. Jones President

The Houston Chronicle Publishing
Company

512 Travis Street

Houston 2, Texas

Dear John:

I am enclosing an editorial from
the student newspaper at Washing-
ton & Lee University, Lexington,
Virginia, which I consider so good
that I felt it should be brought to
your attention. If you agree with me
as to its quality and to its signifi-
cance because of its source, you
might feel that it merits reproduc-
tion.

I consider this one of the most ef-
fective and penetrating editorials for
the Nixon-Lodge ticket that I have
read but, to me it is not only the
excellent espousal of the ticket that
makes it important; equally, if not
more important, is the fact, there
evidenced, that youngsters in college
can write with such lucidity and
force and exhibit such a grasp of, and
interest in, the issues in the cam-
paign which are of lasting signifi-
cance.

As an aside, I think it will be of
interest to you to know that this
student paper is edited by one group
for its Friday Edition and an entirely
different group for its Tuesday Edi-
tion. The Friday edition favors Ken-
nedy and the Tuesday Edition fav-
ors Nixon and Lodge, so they are
having a Kennedy-Nixon debate of
their own. Probably very few votes
will be affected by these boys’ efforts,
but, certainly, this competition will
make better citizens of them and
of the student body represented. A
copy of the Friday Edition’s editorial
stand for Kennedy is also enclosed.

I would like to have these papers
back when you are through with

them. Sincerely,

Webster Unabridged

| An Open
| Letter;
W&L Parking

Mr. Alphonse Whizz
Whizz Bicycle Co.
Peoria, Illinois

Dear Sir:

A small school in the Valley of
Virginia, with a rather affluent stu-
dent body, has a situation which
might be profitable for both of us.
Washington and Lee University
has parking spaces for 350 automo-
biles on or near campus. According,
however, to the University proctor,
there are more than 485 student-
owned cars in town, and another
100 cars registered to the faculty

‘| and administrative personnel.

As anyone who drives on cam-
pus around 10:15 can attest, the
place tends to fill up in a short
while.

Because of the peculiar topog-
raphy of this campus, there seems
to be no further room for expanding
parking areas. When construction of
the new science building begins next
spring, some existing parking spaces
will even be taken out of use.

Therefore, why not begin an in-
tensive sales drive here on behalf of
Whizz Bicycles, emphasizing the
miseries of owning a car? Your slogan
could be something like: “Why tear
your hair or rant and rave? Buy a
Whizz and save, Save, SAVE!”

You might point out that a bi-
cycle never needs gas, oil, or anti-
freeze; that a fraternity brother
will never ask to borrow it for a
trip to Lynchburg; and that a bi-
cycle is safer and considerably
faster than a car in Lexington traf-
fic.

The outstanding difference, of
course, is that a bicyclist doesn’t
have to waste 10 minutes looking for
a parking space. He can drive almost
to the door of his classroom.

Although bicycling also provides
good exercise, I wouldn’t play up this
angle, as physical fitness is a rather
sore point among P. E. students. Be-
sides, most Minks pride themselves
on the horrible shape that they’re
in.

For those students demanding
sports models, you might provide
dual chains and spinners on the
wheels. Foreign license plates would
also be desirable.

This campus would, I think, be
an excellent place for you to link
bicycling with intellectualism. (A
future ad campaign might play up
up “Whizz, the Thinking Man’s
Bicycle.”)

For this great potential market, I
would be happy to act as your agent,
with a 10 per cent commission on
each sale. I hope you will consider
this offer promptly, as I am about
to make a similar proposal to Liber-
ty Hall Stables.

Profitably yours,

Edward Webster, Jr.

Che Ring-tum Phi
Tuesday Edition

The Ring-tum Phi is published Tues-
day and Friday during the college year.

 

It is printed by the Journalism Labor.
atory Press, Wa hi :
atory,srress. Washington and Lee Uni

mailin
is, Lontanton Ve. & address is Box
Entered as second class matte =
tember 20, 1946 at the Post Office, fse-
Peon, Va., under the act of March
‘National Advertising Repr :
The National Advertiters crvie tae
420 Madison Ave., New York, N.Y. :

Editor Ssshdibessaeieeinas apeeacs Rosewell Page, III
Business Manager.............. Huntley Biggs
Editorial Board
Managing Editor... Bill Roberts

Assistant Managing Editor.....................
ie Coen
ports Editor. tee Guild
eature Editor.. -Harvey Allen
Associate Editors...... geanny Butler, Bill
mith,
Copy Editors. fae we

 
 
  
 
  

News Editor..

 

John C. Dawson

Hunter Manson
Bill Young

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

CLOM Pa

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(Continued on page 4)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

SAL

 

 

 

 
 

 

THE RING-TUM

PHI

Page 3

 

W&L Shuts Out Carnegie

Keesee Stars In

Muddy Battle

Against Hard-Hitting Tartans

A 64-yard touchdown run by Tom-
my Keesee in the third quarter gave
the undefeated but once tied Wash-
ington and Lee football team a 6-0
victory over Carnegie Tech Saturday.

Keesee cut across left guard, broke
into the open, and outraced Tech’s

secondary for the TD. Joe Hess’ run!

for extra points fell short of the
gorl, but the touchdown was all
the Generals needed for their sixth
victory.

There were seven fumbles in the
geme which was played in a steady
rain, Washington and Lee fumbled
three times and lost the ball each
time. Tech recovered only one of
its four fumbles.

Lost fumbles stopped Tech drives
in Washington and Lee territory on
three occasions—on the 8, 34, and 13-
yard lines. Terry Fohs of Washing-
ton and Lee cut short another Tech
drive with an interception on the
21.

The victory marked the first time
the Generals had shut out an op-
ponent since 1953 when the Generals
wholloped Shephard 47-0. The loss
left Tech with a 3-4 mark with only
one game remaining.

The Generals’ touchdown drive
began when Keesee fell on a Tech
fumble on his own 23 yard line
early in the third quarter. Keesee

 

carried the ball two times for a

first down on the 36. Jim Russ
failed to pick up any yardage on
a run,

Then Keesee broke through left
guard and was off on his touchdown
sprint.

Tech’s best chances for a touch-
down c2me early in the first period
when Court Burrell returned a punt
60 yards to the Washington and Lee
16. Quarterback Pete Bouxsein slip-
ped through the Generals line to
the 8 on a keeper. But fullback Dale
Stewart fumbled on the next play
and Fohs fell on the ball in the
end zone for a touchback.

There were several injuries in-
flicted on the Blue and White by
the hard play of the game. Ned
Hobbs suffered a back injury and
will not be able to play in Satur-
day’s game. Lanny Butler is out
for the year with a foot injury, and
Bob Funkhouser who has had had
a kidney ailment, will not be in
the starting lineup for the rest of
the year.

Next Saturday will be the last
home game for the Generals. In ad-
dition the game against Sewanee will
be the last time eleven seniors will
play on Wilson Field. These include
Courtney Mauzy, Terry Fohs, Bill
Willes, Mal Brownlee, Graham Ful-
ton, Tom Budd, Windy Weed, Joe
Hess, Jim Russ, Tiff Tiffany, and
Bob Funkhouser.

 

Swimming Practices

The Washington and Lee swim-
ming team will meet its first oppon-
ent, Roanoke College, on Dec. 3.
Coach Norris Eastman expects to
have another winning season after
seeing the results of the time trials
held last week. The team held its
first pool workout on Nov. 1, after
having concentrated on exercises
since the middle of September.

Only three men were lost from
last year’s team which posted an
undefeated season. Nearly every
member of the current team saw
action last year and in addition
there are ten returning lettermen.

The captains of the tankmen this

 

 

Green Valley Motel

One Mile North on
U. S. Highway No. 11

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA
HO 3-2195

 

 

 

EERE ee heehee ehh ete

'Z

 

Begin; Meets Listed

year are Maury Purnell, Jim Parker,
and Eliot Maynard who will again be
counted on heavily. The team’s great-
est weakness will be in the diving
category, since Art Blank, who was
rated in the top ten collegiate div-
ers last year, graduated.

The complete swimming schedule
follows.

(Continued on page 4)

 

he aXe alle he he se ihe he he he Be he Ba he he he Be Be he Be he he
wevvevwevvuwrvuewuvruvwrvevVT

White’s Music
Store

(Opposite State Theater)

y
Phonographs—Hi-Fi
Expert Repair Service
*

5 W. Nelson St. Lexington, Va.
HO 3-3522

 

OO

Tarra Mat Mae Mae
See Me Me Se Bia Mn Ma Me Me ste, Me ae se ste, Me Me ate, Me Me Ma Mle sMte iM Men Bea Ma Me see sMhn Meo Me she ithe, Mts
Te eS eS eS eS eS eee ee ee ee ee ee a eT Ee ET Gt

OE eS Se SS eee. ee

A A A A A I
ee eee ee eS

 

 

 

Meee bodes atest obede seated ntedeoteopetese endo onto efedeobedeodedeobecbdeobededeobedenteteoteteteee
Shirt Service as You Like it
Quaiity Cleaning and Pressing

UNIVERSITY CLEANERS
HO 3-3622

*
“Your Campus Neighbors”

Serene

PLES E Rebbe ebbbbehdbebbbbetbbte

 

 

 

 

The First National Bank

of Lexington
*
has special checking accounts

for students

 

 

Tommy Keesee breaks through the line for long jaunt.

 

 

XC Team Falls To Catawba

On last Friday afternoon the Wash-
ington and Lee cross-country team
was defeated 15-42 by Catawba Col-
lege at Salisbury, N. C.

The first five places went to the
powerful Catawba team, with Cataw-
ba runner deVictor taking the indi-
vidual first place on the flat, 4.2
mile course.

The Generals took the last five
scoring places with Shank, Williams,
Youngblood, Reynolds, and Garret-
son coming in in that order.

 

Seeteetebteteteteteetegegeneeeetes

¢

THE NEW

White Top
Restaurant
*

A personal invitation
to the
Students
Try our delicious foods
Route 60 East

Ter ee ee ee eee eee er rrrrrtrtrt_._7epttg'ts

eetortofo rte rte Terk nent ote ofe fe nfe nfo ole ofeaefe fe oferferte

he he Re Be he he Be le Be he Me Be Be Be Be Be Be Be Ba Ba Be Ba Be Bie Ba Bee Ba Ba Bea Bee Bes Be Be Se BeBe,

 

 

Bootmen Lose To Roanoke

The Washington and Lee soccer
team suffered its fourth loss of the
season by a score of 3-0 to Roanoke
College in Roanoke. Rain, a partisan
crowd and the rough play of Roanoke
upset the Generals’ attack. It is a
disappointing loss for the W&L squad
after rolling over North Carolina
State the week before.

Cloy led the Roanoke attack with
two goals and played an outstanding
game. The third Roanoke goal was

(Continued on page 4)

 

Tech, 6-0; Record 6-0-1

 

 

|

Coaches Corner

Coach Mac Praises WGEL
Teamwork In Tech Shutout

If we had not seen Pittsburgh
from the air we might have thought
it a small hospitable town. As it was
we knew it to be a big hospitable city.
We were treated well by all except
the weatherman and the Carnegie
football players. The former gave
us a cold, rainy day and the latter
a hard-charging, fighting football foe.

It was only a six point margin of
victory, but the big zero for our
opponent was very gratifying. We
have waited so long to see it on a
scoreboard. It took some good de-
fensive plays and a little luck to
bring of the whitewash. We inter-
cepted three Tech passes and re-

Frosh Tally, 3-3

The Washington and Lee Baby
Generals finished out their 1960 grid
schedule with a 14-12 loss to Mas-
sanutten last Saturday.

Coached by Hal Bates and Bill King
the freshmen football team posted a
respectable 3-3 for the season.

In the game Saturday, played at
Woodstock, Virginia, Massanutten
took the visitors’ kick-off and
marched sixty yards for the initial
score. Al Crompton, a_ halfback,
ran the ball over from twenty
yards out.

 

It is interesting to note that the

‘ Baby Generals haven’t won a toss

all season and consequently have
(Continued on page 4)

 

 

 

 

 

 

ROCKBRIDGE LAUNDRY

and
Dry Cleaners

Shirts Transparently Wrapped
for Freshness
*
AGENTS:

Fraternities, Dorms and Co-op

 

 

 

 

ie be oer e oes rhe ese see se rere relate oe oe ented

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

@ Rangers Bob and Joe, on
snow patrol in a new area,
have taken a short cut in
their race to camp before
an approaching blizzard...

 

ao:

\. [RIGHT Across \>
OUR PATH!
THE ONE GULLY
WE DIDN‘T
KNOW ABOUT!
am

 

5

 

ae 7

IT'LL TAKE HOURS TOGO
; AROUND THE BOTTOM~AND 1
~| ABOVE, THAT SNOW LEDGE WOULD fae
AVALANCHE ATA LOUD NOISE! )

 

 

the traditional look
in broadcloth sport shirts

The fabric, the fashion, the feeling
. all lend the look of classic au-
thenticity to these favored sport
shirts. Distinctively printed on
broadcloth in handsome, muted
colorings . .
down collar and back pleat.
Tailored in exact sleeve length.

cum laude collection

by
-ARROW=

@eeeeeeteeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeveeeeee eevee ee eee

. styled with button-

$5.00

 

 

 

THERE YOU ARE~

SNOW FROM RIM

TORIM! SAFE AS
P--( ASIDEWALK FOR

“A MAN ON Skis!

7

A, ee

 

GOES TO SHOW, YOU
CAN'T STOP A MAN
WHO THINKS FOR

= Note: When an “avalanche
slope” is in delicate balance,
the slightest vibration in the
air, such as Bob's shout, will
cause it to let go.

 

 

I SEE By your )

THINK FOR YOURSELF
ABOUT CIGARETTES,

VICEROY'S GOTIT...
AT BOTH ENDS!
GOT THE FILTER,

\_ GOT THE BLEND!

VICEROY YOU

‘TOO

FILTER...

Viceroys got.
at both ends

    
  

© 1960, BROWN & WILLIAMSON TOBACCO CoRP.

 
  
     
  

THE

BLEND! VickROY

Filter Tip

NACNMON Ge

 

 

 

covered three Tech fumbles. The
defensive effort was led by our in-
domitable Terry Fohs, who recovered
one fumble and intercepted a pass
to shut off two of the Tartans’
thrusts. Other individuals who stood
out in the defensive effort were
Wayne Bradshaw, Doug Martin,
Dave Monroe, Steve Suttle, Tom
Budd, and on and on.

Tommy Keesee, Jim Russ, and
Charlie Gummey provided the of-
fensive striking power. It was a
beautifully executed trap play that
sent Keesee oT on his 65 yard touch-
down run. Tommy Goodwin trapped
the Tech right tackle for the key
block. And as others carried out
assignments, Keesee broke into
the clear, gaining the half-step he
needed to outrun his pursuers.

This week we play our last home
game of the season. It will be the
last appearance on Wilson Field for
eleven of our squad. Sewanee has a
very fine team, and it should be an
excellent game. See you there!

COACH MAC

Radio Hospital

*
Radio, TV, Phonograph
Sales and Service

*

HO 3-3531

 

 

 

 

 

yours?

These are the silver wings of a
U. S. Air Force Navigator. As a
flying officer on the Aerospace
team, he has chosen a career of
leadership, a career that has
meaning, rewards and executive
opportunity.

The Aviation Cadet Program
is the gateway to this career. To
qualify for this rigorous and pro-
fessional training, a high school
diploma is required ; however, two
or more years of college are highly
desirable. Upon completion of the
program the Air Force encourages
the new officer to earn his degree
so he can better handle the respon-
sibilities of his position. This in-
cludes full pay and allowances
while taking off-duty courses un-
der the Bootstrap education pro-
gram. The Air Force will pay a
substantial part of all tuition costs.
After having attained enough
credits so that he can complete
course work and residence require-
ments for a college degree in 6
months or less, he is eligible to
apply for temporary duty at the
school of his choice,

If you think you have what it
takes to earn the silver wings of
an Air Force Navigator, see your
local Air Force Recruiter. Ask
him about Aviation Cadet Navi-
gator training and the benefits
which are available to a flying
officer in the Air Force. Or fill in

and mail this coupon.

 

There’s a place for tomorrow’s

leaders on the [ J S.

Aerospace Team.

&
Air Force
“MAIL THIS COUPON TODAY.

AVIATION CADET INFORMATION
yy pr a 3

BOX 7608, WASHINGTON 4, D.C.

T am between 19 and 26 1/2, a citizen
of the U. S. and a high school gradu-
ate with years of college, Please
send me detailed information on the
Air Force Aviation Cadet program
Name
Street
City
County .
Page 4

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

IFC Resolution

(Continued from page 1)

tivities that will test their capacity
for resourcefulness and teamwork,
without debasing them by the
practices listed previously.

Although not all of the so-called
“hazing” practices of the old Hell
Week were harmful per se, many of
them were decidedly antithetical to
the spirit of the Interfraternity Coun-
cil’s regulations. In order to pre-
vent the undesirable practices, it
may be necessary to restrict a few
non-harmful ones. Here is how we
propose that “Help Week” should
be regulated:

Regulations:
According to the present rules:

“A. No fraternity shall violate
the principles of good taste;”

“B. No initiation or pledge train-
ing activity shall constitute any
physical or emotional hazard to the
individual.”

These two rules should be inter-
preted in the light of the foregoing
Statement of Purpose, with the ad-
ditional understanding that a “haz-
ard” is clearly defined as any clear
and present danger of harm to the
physical or emotional processes.

Enforcement:

The whole Interfraternity Council
shall be ultimately responsible for
the enforcement of these rules and
the arbitration of disputes. A com-
mittee composed of the IFC member
from each fraternity shall hear and
immediately investigate all charges
of pledge training practices that vio-

 

Summit Conferences
(Continued from page 2)

foster co-existence.

Futhermore, by understanding the
summit conference as a front, a
well informed person might logically
conclude that the facts reveal, and
that the statements of Communist
prove, that although peaceful co-
existence is the cry, World War III
is the reality.

 

 

OPN ES rds

STATE

LEXINGTON, VA.

 

 

WED.-THUR.-FRL-SAT.

 

 

TECHNICOLOR® trom WARNER BROS,

Robert Preston
Dorothy McGuire

 

late the above rules. The committee
shall have full powers to investi-
gate, and recommend action on, vio-
lations of IFC rules alleged by any
upperclassman or any two fresh-
men. It shall hold the entire fra-
ternity chapter responsible for the
action of any of its upperclassmen.

During Help Week two represen-
tatives, not from the same frater-
nity, shall visit each fraternity house
on one of the five nights of Help
Week and then two more for the next
night and so on.

If the representative notices or
hears of any probable violation of
the above rules by a fraternity he
shall immediately notify the chair-
man of the committee and an officer
of the fraternity, and submit a writ-
ten report. This report will go to
the judicial committee of the IFC
to decide what fine will be imposed
upon the guilty fraternity, if it is
decided as such.

1960-61 SWIMMING SCHEDULE

Dec. 1—Roanoke College............ There
Dec. 6—Univ. of Virginia............ Here
Dec. 10—Catholic University ....Here
Dec. 12—West Virginia U......... There
Jan. 12—Norfolk W&M................ Here
Jan, 13—Univ. of Maryland........ Here
Feb. 6—Georgetown Univ......... There
Feb. 7—American University.... There
Feb. 17—Wake Forest College There
Feb, 18—East Carolina Coll..... There

Feb. 24-25—State Meet Richmond
March 9-11—Eastern Intercollegiate
Princeton

Rami

TUES.-WED.

AN aa
ELIA KAZAN prooucrion ae
BUDD SCHULBERGS i

inthe *
Crowds ‘

presenteo By WARNER BROS. starring

ANDY GRIFFITH«©PATRIGA NEAL

Story and Screen Play by BUDD SCHULBERG + Songs by TOM GLAZER and
BUDD SCHULBERG + Directed by ELIA KAZAN + A NEWTOWN PRODUCTION

 

 

 

 
  
     

 

 

 

 

 

MYERS
HARDWARE
COMPANY

| SPOSSSSSSSSOOSSSSSOSSSS

 

 

VARSITY
BILLIARD
ACADEMY

Catering
To Students

Corner of

Washington and Jefferson

 

 

in t

Meet your

The Southern Inn

Cordially invites you to make this your headquarters for good food
Here you get the best food for the most reasonable prices

Our Specialties:
Steaks, Chicken, Country Ham, and the best sandwiches

ce

own

friends here

 

=

md

Member

 

  

a

STUDENTS ACCOUNTS INVITED

4
|

|
i

BSS.

HERE
F.D.LC.

 

 

Tommy Keesee Is Named
Player of the Week

This week’s selection for player-
of-the-week is Tommy Keesee.
Tommy, a sophomore from Mem-
phis, Tenn., made the only touch-
down of last Saturday’s shutout
against Carnegie Tech and was

Richmond Times Dispatch.

Tommy has played a consistent
game throughout the season this
year, having the fourth highest net
rushing yardage and third highest
rushing average. The speedy full-
back has run a total of 210 yards
for an average of 4.9. In the passing
department, Keesee has received four
passes for a total of 56 yards gained.

ing his average for the day to 9.8.
In addition his touchdown play
which saved the game from a 0-0
score was a 64-yard run from scrim-
mage.

Coach McLaughlin, commenting
upon Keesee, said, “Tommy is one of
| the most promising sophomores that
| we have on the team this year. He
has played an excellent game all
season and we have great hopes for
him next year.”

 

'

 

LEXINGTON

 

 

named back of the week by the)

In Saturday’s game Tommy had a|
total of 9 runs for 89 yards, bring- |

Ferre Speaks

(Continued from page 1)

 

10:30 p.m.—Informal discussion with
Father Francis McCarthy. Freshman
Dormitory.

| Friday, Nov. 11

|

| 12:05 p.m.—Talk by Dr. Ferre on
| “World Religions.” Lee Chapel.

| 2:30 p.m.—Informal discussion with
| Dr. Ferre on “World Religions.”
| Student Union.

|
Soccer
(Continued from page 3)

scored when W&L’s Frank Smith in-
advertantly slipped one into his own
nets.

Coach Joe Lyles said the next
game will be with Virginia in Wed-
nesday’s encounter at Smith Field.
It would be a big boost to the W&L
team to have a good crowd on
hand.

 

 

 

BROWN’S
CLEANING
WORKS
We call for

and deliver

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

SEAL

So Sin Mo Ste ste Ma ake sa se ate Me ite a Ba a a Ba he a tte te he Ba ta he a he ihe ta a a he Bae
OGt MG Gt Gt Gt MG Mt Mt PES MEF MES GT Gt MET MGT GP PG" PHT MG ET MGT Me” Mae Et ME MET MEE MGS PET PES MEE ME MET MES

 

CLEANERS
Phone HO 3-3813 108 S. Jefferson |j| "0 22013 14 Randolph St.
LEE Eeehbbbebeeeee neha hehehe
We Feature

Dairy Products
“To get the best get Sealtest’”’

over twenty different products in addition to
delicious Sealtest ice cream

Block and Crushed Ice

Your favorite mixes—Ice Cold

*
Maple-Rock Distributors, Inc.

Phone HO 3-2168

TEST

Se te he he Me Be Me Be Be Be Ba he Ba Be te ta Ba Be le Ba ta Ba Be ie Ba the tha tha Ba Be ite Ba Ba he
a ae ae a Mae ae ae ES Mae Mae et Mae PE MES ae Mat MGT Ma aS PET Ma MEY MES MES MES MET Ma Mgt Mat Mat MG MET

 

 

he the he ate he Be Be Me he Me Ma Me Be Be Be Be Be Ba he Ba Ba Be Be Be he Ba Be Be Ba a Bn
ee eS ee ee

| Tareyton has the taste—

Dual Filter
does it!

NEW DUAL FILTER Tar

Gq aN “aN ”
Product of SE Mnarioan Sebaceolompany — JSobaceo is our middle name ©4.7. co

 

ee ee ee ee ee

Filters for
flavor

—finest flavor by far!

 
 

§
: s
‘A

Freshman Team Finishes Season With 3-3 Record

(Continued from page 3)

kicked off every game.

In the second quarter the deter-
mined visitors got back in the game
with a touchdown by fullback Syd
Butler after a sustained drive from
our thirty-five. Later in the same
period Massanutten roared back with
a long, forty yard pass to the W&L
one-yard line. The stubborn Baby
Generals’ defensive unit held for
two plays, but the opposing full-
back finally plunged over for the
score to give Massanutten a 14-6
halftime edge.

The third quarter saw the Wash-
ington and Lee freshmen stuck
in their own territory. Wet, rainy
conditions prevented quarterback
John McDaniel from too much

 

Teh obe oho obo oe oe oho oho oe feof whe fee oe ole fe fe ole abe ages

IDEAL
BARBER SHOP

QUICK SERVICE

eh heeled

:
:
;

*%
rede rhe ode rte teste ole oho ode obese afe ole ole ole ole ole ole she desde she fe

passing and nine-man defensive
line bottled up the sputtering
W&L offensive.

In the final quarter McDaniel took
to the air and with three minutes
remaining in the contest hit right
end Ed Croft with an aerial in the
end zone. A pass for two extra points
and a tie failed but the Baby Gener-
als weren’t through. Mike Jenkins,
who has been carrying out the kick-
ing duties all season, attempted an
on-side kick.

 

 

 

For those extra pieces

of
FURNITURE

for your room
see our stock
before buying

oF
VARNER AND POLE

 

 

 

 

SUNDAY

Ted’s Steak House

Finest Foods
Choice Meats

Ww

Route 60 Buena Vista

DINNERS

 

 

 

 

Open a convenient student Checking account
TODAY

at

Rockbridge National Bank

Member Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation

 

 

  

 
 
   

 

THE TAREYTON RING MARKS THE REAL THING!

 

HERE’S HOW THE DUAL FILTER DOES IT:

1. It combines a unique inner filter of ACTIVATED CHARCOAL
definitely proved to make the taste of acigarette mild and smooth...

2. with a pure white outer filter. Together they select and balance
the flavor elements in the smoke. Tareyton’s flavor-balance gives
you the best taste of the best tobaccos,

eyton

 

 
 

 

FRIDAY
Edition

Che Ring-tum Phi

Washington and Lee S

emi-Weekly Newspaper

FRIDAY
Edition

 

Volume LXI

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA, NOVEMBER 11, 1960

Number 17

 

 

Me? ,

Washington And Lee Has Two

TWENTY-FOUR NAMED TO WHO'S WHO

Atlanta Group
To Perform Here
On November 19

The Atlanta Symphony Orchestra
under the direction of Henry Sopkin
will perform Nov. 19, at Washington
and Lee University.

The concert, under the auspices of
Washington and Lee Concert Guild,
will be held in the University’s Dore-
mus Gymnasium.

Among featured program selections
will be “Prelude for Strings,” com-
posed by Robert Stewart, associate
professor of fine arts at Washington
and Lee.

Other Selections

Other selections will include “Sym-
phony No. 2” by Brahms, “Mother
Goose Suite” by Ravel and “Branden-
burg Concerto No. 3” by Bach.

The Atlanta Symphony is 15 years
old having been founded in 1945 as
the Atlanta Youth Symphony. Its
first conductor was Henry Sopkin.

Prior to coming to Atlanta, Sopkin
was widely known for his work with
student orchestras and by the many
musical works he has edited and ar-
ranged.

 

 

The members of Who’s Who are, first row, left to right, Jim Vann, Steve Danzansky, Joel Kocen, Billy McWilliams,

Chris Harrell, Roy Carpenter, Ned Ames. Second row, Al Broaddus, Brian Vitsky, Paul Coffey, Robert Gilliam, Don
Partington, Ed Ladd. Third row, Malcolm Brownlee, Nathan Simpson, John Morrison, Hugh White, Kent Frazier, Court-
ney Mauzy. Fourth row, Bill Buice, Dave Lefkowtiz, Henry Harrell, and Warren Goodwyn. Not present was Bob

Funkhouser.

 

Dr. Ferre Holds “Extreme Middle”
As Religious Conference Closes

By P. H. ALFORD

The religious conference, sponsor-
ed by Washington and Lee Universi-
ty, and arranged under the super-
vision of the University Christian As-
sociation, past into its closing phases
today.

With the general theme, “The Bibli-
cal Faith and Modern Thought,” Re-
ligious Emphasis Week started Wed-
nesday with morning lectures.

Dr. Ferre

The main speaker, who lectured
at three morning assemblies, was Dr.
Nels F. S. Ferre, nationally known
theologian, author and lecturer.

Father Francis W. McCarthy, pastor
of St. Patrick’s Catholic Church in
Lexington, and Dr. David H. Wice,
Rabbi of Congregation Rodeth Salom
in Philadelphia were available to stu-
dents throughout the Conference for
consultation and informal discussion
groups as part of the program.

 

University Assembly

Religious Emphasis Week got under
way Wednesday morning with the
University Assembly in Doremus
Gymnasium. After the invocation by
the University Chaplain, Dr. David
Sprunt, George Birdsong, the confer-
ence director, discussed the import-
ance and opportunities offered every-
one by Religious Emphasis Week and
the conferences.

Birdsong, an SAE senior from Suf-
folk, Va., then introduced Dr. Ferre.
A native of Sweden, Dr. Ferre now
holds the chair of Abbott Professor of
Christian Theology at Andover New-
ton Theological School in Massachus-
etts, Dr. Ferre holds A.B., B.D., M.A.,
Ph.D., and D.D. degrees.

Four Positions
Dr. Ferre discussed the four posi-
tions of religion in regard to the
“castle of Christian faith.” To the right,
he defined the fundamentalist and the

, neo-othodox positions. To the left he
talked of the liberals and the ex-
treme left, the existentialist positions.
By doing so, he set the tone for the re-
ligious week.

Over the three-day convocation, Dr.
Ferre discussed the general topic of
the theology of social fulfillment.

Thursday, in Lee Chapel, Dr. Ferre
continued this major topic with a talk
specifically dealing with Existentialism.
He defined the Existentialist position
in the world today and labeled it “a
freedom without faith” with “no doc-
trine.”

The Extreme Middile

Finding no sufficient answer to a
theology of social fulfillment, in any

with all interested persons for in-
formal discussions in the Student Un-
ion. Also in the Student Union, Wed-
nesday and Thursday evening, Father
McCarthy and Dr. Wice led discus-
sion groups.

“Religion and the East-West Con-
flict” and “Religion, Sex and Mar-
riage” were topics for the first eve-
ning, while “Religion and Racial Ex-
clusiveness” and “Science and Re-
ligion” were topics for Thursday’s
meetings.

Informal gathering with Dr. Wice
and Father McCarthy in the Reading
Room of the Freshman Dormitory each
night from 10:30 ’til 11:00 were also in-
cluded in the program.

 

of these religious interpretations, Dr.
Ferre, pleading “the extreme middle,” |
‘talked on “World Religions” in his,
_ last university address today.

| From 2:30 to 3:30 each afternoon
| during the conference, Dr. Ferre met!

 

The three speakers and Lexington
churches’ chaplains ate lunch and din-
ner in the various fraternity houses
during the conference to give stu-
dents another opportunity to partici-
pate in Religious Emphasis Week.

 

New Members Chosen

Advanced ROTC Party Saturday;

McLaughlin To Speak Tuesday

“tT,” Company of the 10th Regiment
of Scabbard and Blade, the national
honorary military science fraternity,
will sponsor a party this Saturday
afternoon in honor of the members
of the Advanced Course in ROTC.

Members of the Advanced Course
include all juniors and seniors now
enrolled in ROTC. The party for them
will begin immediately after the foot-
ball game with Sewanee and last until
6 p.m. It will be held on the mezza-
nine of the Robert E. Lee Hotel.

Cocktail refreshments will be serv-
ed and live music will be provided
by a combo.

New Members

At its meeting last night, Scabbard
and Blade elected three new seniors to
membership. They are Cadet Captain
Charles W. Day, IJ, company com-
mander of “A” Co.; Cadet First Lieu-
tenant Perry L. Gordon executive of-
ficer of “B” Co. Cadet Master Sgt.
C. Calvin Adams Jr., first sergeant of

-—” Ge.
Col. McLaughlin Speaks
Colonel Charles V. McLaughlin,

Deputy Director of Military Operations,
Department of the Army, will speak
Tuesday night, November 15, in Lee
Chapel. The talk, set for 8 p.m. will
be on the subject “Planning for the
Army’s Role in Modern Warfare.”
Colonel McLaughlin was born in
New York City, June 29, 1912. He is
a Columbia University graduate, hold-

 

ing a Bachelor of Science degree. He
is a 1959 graduate of the United States
Army War College at Carlisle, Pa., and
has completed a course at the Com-
mand and General Staff College.

Col. McLaughlin’s decorations in-
clude the Bronze Star and the Com-
mendation Ribbon, with Oak Leaf
Clusters.

When it was learned that Gen. Ham-
lett would not be able to give the talk,
his Deputy, Col. McLaughlin was
nominated to speak in his place.

 

Summer Session Planned
For University of Mexico

Applications and _ enrollment
American students and teachers to the
1961 Summer Session Program of the
National University of Mexico,
Mexico City, was announced today by
Dr. Hilton Bell, Director, University
Study Tour to Mexico.

Summer Session at the 500 acre,
gorgeously muraled campus, one of the
most beautiful in the world, offers
students and teachers a six-week sum-
mer of foreign travel, study and en-
joyable living. Internationally-renown-
ed and the leading University in Latin
America, the University of Mexico of-
fers a wide variety of unusual and
standard courses in Spanish and Eng-
lish for teacher in-service require-
ments or undergraduate credits.

(Continued on page 4)

of |

‘Dr. Barrett’s Translation

Of **Mexico”” Now On Sale

A volume on Mexico by Erico Ver-
| issimo translated by Dr. L. L. Barrett,

|chairman of the department of ro-
|

|mance languages at Washington and
i Lee University, has been placed on
sale in bookstores throughout the

United States.
The book, entitled Mexico, has been

W&L Seeking
Moot Court Win
Over Univ. Va.

By JACK EURE
Staff Reporter

The national Moot Court Team of
Washington and Lee University has

 

published by Orion Press. Verissimo
is regarded as Brazil’s leading novel- |
ist. His latest book, originally written |
in Portuguese, was translated by Dr. |
Barrett for a London Publisher and |
Orion Press bought the US. rights. |

Reviews from the Saturday Review
of Literature, the New York Times, |
and Chicago Tribune praise the book |
and its translation. |

Dr. Barrett, a member of the Wash- |
ington and Lee faculty since 1948,|
received his doctorate from the Uni-
versity of North Carolina. He trans- |
lated Verissimo’s Night into English |
in 1956.

Paper to Conference

Dr. James S. Patty, associate pro-
fessor of romance languages at Wash-
ington and Lee University, presented
a paper at the recent annual meeting

Association in Charleston, S. C.

He gave a paper entitled “Neither
Black nor White: An Interpretation of
Merimee’s “Tamango’.”

sity professors attending the meeting.
Others included Dr. William W. Pusey,
(Continued on page 4)

 

Professor Patty Presents |

of the South Atlantic Modern Language |

Dr. Patty was one of four Univer-

its eyes set for no less than a vic-
tory in the regional competition to

be held Nov. 18 and 19 at Wake Forest

College in Winston Salem, N. C.

The team, led by co-chairmen |
Robert L. Gilliam, II, and John C.
Morrison, will take the respondent

side of a case under the National Lab-
or Relations Act. They take on the
tough team from the University of
Virginia in the first round of compe-

tition.

Washington and Lee won the na-
tional competition only three years

| ago. If the team wins at the regional

debate it will go to New York for a
crack at another first place.

The Young Lawyers Committee of
the Association of the Bar of the City

| of New York sponsors the Moot Court

debates. The national Moot Court is
in turn divided into regions. In this
region Washington and Lee will com-
pete against Wake Forest, Universi-
ty of Virginia, U. of Richmond, U. of
North Carolina, U. of South Carolina,
William and Mary, and Duke Univers-
ity for the regional title.

The Moot Court of W&L plans to
have a practice argument in prepara-
tion for the trial at 7:15 Tuesday eve-
| ning. All who are interested are wel-
| comed to attend.

|

 

More Members

By GEORGE HONTS
Managing Editor
Twenty-four academic and law sen-
iors from Washington and Lee Uni-
versity have been selected for mem-
bership in Who’s Who in American
Colleges and Universities.

The Students’ Who’s Who is not the
same organization as the Marquis and
Company Who’s Who in America but
draw up from lists of leading students
in all important American institutes of
higher education.

The W&lL students, like all others
chosen for the honor, were chosen
for outstanding leadership in academic
and extracurricular activities in their
perspective colleges,

W&L Members
Those chosen from W&L are:

Edward Almer Ames, Delta Tau
Delta senior from Accomac, Va., edi-
tor of the 1961 Calyx, editor of the
freshman handbook, Ring-tum Phi,
Student Service Society, Assimilation
Committee member, “13” Club, Pi
Sigma Alpha, Dean’s List and house
officer.

John Malcolm Brownlee, Jr., senior |
from Rockbridge Baths, Va., president
of University Christian Association,
Mahan Award, football, dorm coun-
selor, Honor Roll.

John Alfred Broaddus, Sigma Nu
senior from Richmond, Va., president
of Finals, Phi Eta Sigma, dorm coun-
selor, commerce fraternity, house of-
ficer.

William Thomas Buice, Sigma Alpha
Epsilon senior from Carlotte, N. C.,
Executive Committee, Calyx, IFC, “13”
Club, basketball.

Roy Carpenter, senior from Bryan,
Tex., vice-president of sophomore
class, Dance Board, Phi Eta Sigma,
dorm counselor, baseball, Honor Roll.

Stephen Ira Danzansky, Zeta Beta
Tau senior from Washington, D.C.,
SWMSFC director, cheerleader, fra-
ternity officer, Dean’s List.

Robert Kent Frazier, Kappa Alpha
senior from Tampa, Fla., President of
the Student Body, Omicron Delta Kap-
pa, president of Phi Eta Sigma, wrest-
ling.

Robert Justin Funkhouser, Kappa
Alpha senior from Charles Town, W.
Va., co-captain of the football team,
track, vice-president of Varsity Club,
fraternity secretary.

Robert Lindsay Gilliam, Sigma Al-
pha Epsilon, law school senior from
Union City, Tenn., president of Phi
Delta Phi, co-chairman of Moot Court
Team, Assimilation Committee, asso-
ciate editor of Law Review and W&L
Lawyer, Law School Board of Gov-
ernors.

Paul Huber Coffey, law school sen-
ior from Roanoke, Va., president of
Student Bar Association, the Law Re-
view, and treasurer of SBA.

 

Warren Hudson Goodwyn, Sigma}
Alpha Epsilon law senior from Mont- |

Than Last Year

gomery, Ala., president of Omicron
Delta Kappa, president of SAE, Ex-
ecutive Committee.

Henry Howze Harrell, Sigma Chi
senior from Sabot, Va., Vice-President
of Student Body, Omicron Delta Kap-
pa, SWMSFC, Phi Eta Sigma.

Lyman Christian Harrell, Kappa
Alpha law school senior from Emporia,
Va., president of Publications Board,
editor of Southern Collegian, foot-
ball.

Joel Evan Kocen, law school senior
from Richmond, Va., associate editor
of Law Review, Phi Beta Kappa, treas-
urer of SBA, Betta Gamma Sigma,
Phi Eta Sigma.

Edward Bradford Ladd, Beta Theta
Pi senior from Mobile, Ala., vice-
president of senior class, editor of
1960 Calyx.

David Lefkowitz, Zeta Beta Tau
senior from Shreveport, La., president
of Interfraternity Council, president of
SWMSFC, Student Service Society,
Psi Chi, freshman camp counselor,
Calyx, Dean’s List.

Courtney Roller Mauzy, Sigma Al-
pha Epsilon senior from Charlotte,
N.C., president of Varsity Club, captain
of football team, Sigma, Honor Roll.

John Cooper Morrison, Sigma Chi
law student senior from Charleston,
W. Va., chairman of Cold Check Com-
mittee, president of fraternity, presi-
dent of freshman law class, co-chair-
man of Moot Court Team, vice-presi-
dent of Sigma, secretary of Phi Delta
Phi, vice-president of Openings.

William Brymer McWilliams, Phi
Delta Theta from Selma, Ala., secretary
of student body, Omicron Delta Kappa,
Pi Sigma Alpha, SWMSFC, tennis,
Dean’s List.

Donald Herbert Partington, Phi
Gamma Delta senior from Culpeper,
Va., president of Fancy Dress, presi-
dent of Glee Club, chairman of As-
similation Committee, fraternity pres-
ident, Student Service Society, Dean’s
List.

Nathan P. B. Simpson, Kappa Alpha
senior from Tampa, Fla., editor of
Ring-tum Phi, commander of ROTC
corps, Executive Committee, fraterni-
ty president, Dean’s List.

James Allen Vann, Phi Kappa Psi
senior from Birmingham, Ala., presi-
dent of junior class, Executive Com-
mittee, president of Dance Board,
president of Concert Guild, Honor
Roll.

Brian Howard Vitsky, Zeta Beta
Tau senior from Richmond, Va., Phi
Beta Kappa, Phi Eta Sigma, president
of Alpha Epsilon Delta, chairman of
Library Committee, vice president of
fraternity.

Hugh Vernon White, law school
senior from Holland, Va., editor of
Law Review, president of Phi Alpha
Delta, Menkemeller scholar, chairman
of Moot Court Committee, VMI Honor
Court.

 

W& L Sponsors Seminar

For Newsmen December 3

Some 20 newspapermen who cover
the courts have registered for a special
law seminar scheduled for Dec. 3 at
Washington and Lee University.

Registration for the special session,
which is under the sponsorship of the
university’s Lee Memorial Journalism
Foundation and the School of Law,
closes Nov. 15.

Featured speakers for the seminar |
will be Anthony Lewis, Supreme |
Court correspondent for the New
York Times, and James A. Eichner, |
assistant city attorney of Richmond
and a former reporter for the Rich-
mond Times-Dispatch. Five members
of the Washington and Lee law facul- |
ty will serve as supporting lecturers. |

The seminar is designed to provide
working newsmen for
radio and television with information |
about the law from specialists and to

newspapers, |

Lee Memorial Journalism Foundation
and chairman of the University’s de-
partment of journalism and communi-
cations.

In addition to lecturers, the seminar
program calls for a tour of the law
library at the University, opportunities
for consultation with lecturers and a
motion picture of a criminal proceed-
ing accompanied by explanatory re-
marks.

Lewis will discuss “Covering the
Courts” while Eichner will talk about
the “Status of Legal Reporting: Prob-

lems and Suggestions for Improve-
ment.”

Speakers from Washington and Lee’s
School of Law will include Dean

Charles P. Light, and Professor Charles
R. McDowell, Robert E. R. Huntley,
Wilfred J. Ritz and Charles V. Laugh-

lin. Each man will discuss a different

promote accuracy, clarity and inter-| phase of the law including contracts,

he ss ;
writing and editing of legal | criminal law and procedure, torts and

| damages and federal jurisdiction.
Journalists from Virginia, West Vir- |

est in
topics.

g:nia, North Carolina and the District

of Columbia have been invited to par- | University

This seminar is the first of its kind
to be held at Washington and Lee. The
sponsored

has previous

ticipate in the seminar, according to| seminars dealing with libel and other
Professor O. W. Riegel, director of the | related laws.
 

Page 2

Che Ring-tum Phi
Friday Edition
Member of Virginia Intercollegiate Press Association

 

Ww Ww

From somewhere deep

Ww w

in the woods, Americans

heard the Pied Piper of Hyannis Port playing his pro-

gressive tune.

Fortunately, they remembered the Mayor couldn’t
get rid of the rats, and now the Pied Piper is under con-

tract.

 

IFC Needs Student Backing

Needless to say we were elated to read that the IFC is
proposing a stand on “Hell Week” abuses. The proposal has
merit, and the potential course of action indicated by the IFC
and its representatives is indeed long-awaited.

Although the mechanics of this system to abolish violations
of the “basic sense of human dignity and decency”’ will be
forthcoming, we feel that the only way the success of this pro-
ject can be guaranteed is by a consolidation of student support
behind it. Only if the individuals in a fraternity recognize the
need for imposing these regulations and are firm in a conviction
to uphold standards of membership which exclude all such
“cancers of immaturity” as have blighted our past, will this
movement of the IFC be truly effective.

We urge the student body

to rally behind their IFC and

insure the success of this proposal.

 

Glee Club Has Problems;
Student Attendance Lags

By JAMES VANN

Friday Columnist
What happened at the Glee Club
concert last Monday night? How many
students even real-
ized that a concert
was being held?
And for that mat-
ter, how many fac-
ulty men? Well, if
the crowd _ that
turned out for the
event is any indi-

cation, then there
weren’t too many.
At best, _—ithere

might have been
five faculty men
and thirty students, the remaining
twenty in the audience were loyal
townspeople. Surely the reason for
no attendance wasn’t lack of knowl-
edge. The performance was well ad-
vertised.

I am only glad that I was not in
the position of Professor Stewart who
had to explain to the Sullins Glee Club,
a group that had given up two days
of school to make the trip up here,
why the gymnasium, with chairs set
up for two or three hundred people,
contained only fifty or sixty people.

Of course, I am aware of the fact
that a performance has to be good in
its own merit to attract a crowd and
you can’t expect people to give up
their time to support something that
is essentially unworthy of their sup-
port. To be sure, the Glee Club might
not measure up to the standard that
many set for good entertainment, but
when they never have anyone but the
same faithful few who attend each
concert there is little incentive to try
and do well.

For this last performance with Sul-
lins, the Club sung Bruckner’s Te
Deum, a work that if performed well,
can provide pleasure to the most dis-
criminating ear. In the past there has
been quite a cry for the Club to move
away from its stock repertoire of
Gershwin and Thompson and _ try
some really difficult music. The group,
for the most part, did this and got
together ‘with another group—at
great sacrifice of time on both parts—
and did the Te Deum very well, fifty
people bothered to come....

In my opinion it was a tragic mis-
take for the Glee Club to try and
schedule this performance so close
to the one on Parents’ Weekend. This
prevented their polishing their old
songs and learning such a difficult piece
well; but, the fact remains, even if
the performance had gone well, which
it unfortunately did not, there was
really no one to hear it!

In conclusion, every one here at
Washington and Lee, both faculty and
students, has a great many demands on
a limited and precious amount of
time. But there are certain worth-
while groups that ought to be en-

Che Ring-tum Phi

Friday Edition

The Ring-tum Phi is published Tues-
day and Friday during the college year.
It is printed by the Journalism Labor-
atory Press, ashington and Lee Uni-
vareity. The mailing address is Box
899, Lexington, Va,

Entered as second class matter Sep-
tember 20, 1946 at the Post Office, Lex-
ington, Va., under the act of March
3, ‘

National Advertising Representative:
The National Advertisers Service, Inc.,
420 Madison Ave., New York, N.Y.

Editor-in-Chief................ Nathan Simpson
Business Managev.............. Huntley Biggs

 

 

 

couraged and supported in any Liberal
Arts school that is worthy of the name.
One of these activities is a musical
program. Perhaps this program here
at Washington and Lee doesn’t meas-
ure up to your standards of worth,
but there is only one way for it to
get better; and that is for you to
support the concerts with your pres-
ence and let the members in the
club know that you are interested and
eager for the group to excell.

The Glee Club is on perilous ground
right now and is facing quite a num-
ber of problems. And, if there is no
more encouragement shown them in
the future than is being shown right
now, then I wouldn’t blame them a
bit for giving up the idea of ever
giving concerts here and sing simply
for their own enjoyment.

 

THE RING-TUM PHI

Tutorial Plan New To Americans;
Oxford Requires No Exams, Tests

By JON B. McLIN
Friday Columnist

Wadham College, Oxford, Nov. 6—
After having devoted the first two of
these columns to college life and to
the maze of student organizations in
the University, I would like this week
to discuss the academic life in the
colleges, i.e, the tutorial system, and
to make some random observations of
daily Oxford life.

Perhaps the most difficult adjust-
ment which the American undergrad-
uate at Oxford has to make relates to
the tutorial system.

It is often said that the student
here can do pretty much what he
wants, academically, and the saying
generally is true. There is no compul-
sory schedule of lectures, no weekly
quizzes or semester exams, no term
papers or pledged reading.

The core of the academic life rather
consists of a weekly meeting with
one’s tutor, a meeting which generally
lasts an hour. At such tutorials, the
student reads the essay which he has
been assigned for the week, hears
criticisms of it from his tutor, and
proceeds to discuss other points re-
lated to the subject of discussion for
that week.

As preparation for such tutorials,
students are generally given a list of
four to six recommended books on
the subject. The extent to which this
reading list is used, however, is left
entirely up to the individual student.

In addition to these tutorials,
there is a rather wide range of topics
in each field which are treated in
lecture series, some of which may be
recommended to the student. Again,
the number of lectures a student at-
tends is left up to him, and most
students attend rarely or, at best, in-
frequently.

Students are, in addition, expected
to do some work during the year’s 28
weeks of vacation (the school year
consists of three terms of eight weeks
each). Again, however, an individual
may do none or a great deal of work
depending on his temperament and
goals.

Certain modifications of this program
are made for students in the sciences
and for students reading for advanced
degrees. Scientists are generally as-

Have Typewriter, Will Write

‘Mirror, Mirror, On The Wall;
Who’s The Funniest Of Them All’

By THORNS CRAVEN
Friday Columnist

After looking at my by-line above
I guess you have said by now one
of two things. Either “Who in hell
is he?” or “Why in hell is he writ-
ing a column?” I can answer these
two questions easily enough: Thorns
Craven and because.

As you've no doubt guessed this
is to be a humorous column. And as
I’ve no doubt guessed you’ve prob-
ably said by now: “I bet he’s no
funnier than the rest.” This is a
brilliant criticism of my column,
but read on, I might drop in some
four-letter words for everyone to
chuckle at.

Now that I’ve been uproariously
funny for two paragraphs, and now
that all of you are satisfied that
I’m no funnier than the rest, I’m
supposed to launch into a biting,
ripping, slashing, cutting, brilliant,
thinly-veiled satire on some well-
known Lexington and/or W&L tra-
dition and/or institution. I actually
like most of these things, but I’ve
go obligations to you, the reader,
who is never wrong, to amuse you.
And since I’m told that the Lex-
ington Telephone Company is an
object of much derision, I'll start
with it.

Dial 113... and Wait

I did a little bit of primary re-
search work to build the groundwork
for this little essay, and it turns out
that the research work becomes the
essay. I began by dialing 113. This
was just after lunch. Pledges worked
shifts all afternoon waiting for an
answer, and around 8:30, when I
checked by the booth to see if any-
thing was happening, I heard a se-
ductive voice whisper in my ear:

“Just a minute, please.”

So I sent a pledge out for beer
and sat down to wait. Around ten
I was snapped out of a nap by a
little voice coming in remotely with:

“I’m sorry we've kept you wait-
ing, sir, but we just had to finish
that last rubber of bridge.”

So I said politely:

Phat's all...”

And at that point I was hit in the
ear with a:

“Awright,

whaddaya want, for

 

chrissake!”

So I said, “Information.”

The answer I got to this meek lit-
tle request sounded like the giant
in Jack and the Beanstalk with
laryngitis, shouting through a
wind-tunnel, and saying: “Well why
in the hell did you call me, I’m only
the Information operator,” and she
hung up with a blinding flash, the
thunder of hoofbeats, and a hearty
Hi-yo Silver.

Call Cost $39.85

So I called Long Distance, was put
off, got a busy signal, then gave
up and decided to write about the
shortage of good sex magazines at
McCrum’s. But before I could get
out of the booth the phone rang,
and the original soft, sexy, seductive
voice said softly, sexily, and seduc-
tively: “That will be an additional
thirty-nine dollars and eighty-five
cents, please.” So I’m sitting here in
the booth, typing a column, dropping
in nickels, and reading the phone
book. Did you know that there are
fifty-two white pages, four blue ones,
and fifty-two yellow ones? And on
blue page four it says that “fertile
limestone soils make excellent pas-
tures.”

And like you said, I’m no funnier
than the rest.

 

Notices

A meeting for the election of of-
ficers of the Forensic Union will be
held Monday, Nov., 14, at 7:15 p.m.
in the Student Union. All members
are urged to be present for this im-
portant meeting.

The Assimilation Committee will
meet Tuesday.

 

signed, rather than a weekly essay, a
series of problems to work out theo-
retically and/or experimentally in the
laboratory. They also are more closely
supervised, generally, than arts stu-
dents; nevertheless, they are still
much more at liberty than their Amer-
ican counterparts.

Students reading for advanced de-
grees have widely differing study pro-
grams, but are all marked by a notor-
ious lack of supervision. A student
reading for a Ph.D., for example, may
not see his supervisor more than once
a month, if that often.

It is perhaps a sad commentary on
the trend of English education that the
student-tutor relationship is so much
more a formal one today than it was
in earlier days of the University. At
that time, tutors were counselors of a
personal nature, not merely instruc-
tors. Moreover, each student then was
assigned, in addition to his academic
tutor, a “moral” tutor, who super-
vised his extracurricular development,
kept check of his expenditures, etc.

If this description conveys the idea
of a leisurely approach to education,
it is perhaps because it fails to note
the proper place of formal University
training in British education.

British students at Oxford—and
at Cambridge—come up from sec-
ondary schools where they have al-
ready—during their last two years—
begun to specialize in only one or
two subjects. Once here, they pursue
courses of study at Oxford which are
specialized to the point that they
may, to some Americans, seem il-
liberal. For example, a student read-
ing English studies nothing but Eng-
lish for three years; a student read-
ing physics studies nothing but phys-
ics, along with co-requisite math,
for three years, etc.

The aim, then, of the formal Univer-
sity training is the acquisition of depth
in a given field, not breadth. And in
this, they are largely successful, ow-
ing to the system of early specializa-
tion.

But what, it will be argued, about
the idea of a liberal education? Do the
British not believe in it? The answer is
that indeed they do and indeed the
Oxford student is expected to be “lib-
eralized” while he is here, but this

 

doesn’t happen by taking University
courses in the widely varying fields
with which a liberally educated per-
son is expected to be familiar. Rather,
one is expected to learn these things in
an extracurricular way; and, indeed,
in the intellectually stimulating at-
mosphere of Oxford, if one doesn’t
learn more informally—even if by the
process of osmosis—than he does for-
mally, it can only be because his eyes
and ears are closed.

* * *

On Friday, Nov. 4, Oxford was
decked in the royal purple for a visit
by H. M. the Queen and H. R. H.
the Duke of Edinburg. It was a day of
ritual, as they appeared in the Town
Hall and at Christ Church—the ritziest
of the colleges—before participating
in two ceremonies for the University.

The first was an official convocation,
conducted, for the most part, in Latin,
and presided over by the University
Chancellor, who only happens to be
the Prime Minister as well, Harold
Macmillan.

Later in the day, the Queen laid
the cornerstone for the new building
being begun for one of the colleges,
St. Catherine’s Society.

The latter ceremony ended in trag-
edy, as three students with little
regard for royal prestige returned to
the college site the following night
and absconded with the corner-
stone. But alas, they were found out
the next day and received for their
efforts a temporary expulsion from
the University!

In acting as they did the students
were probably getting an early start
for Guy Fawkes Day which on Nov.
5 is the British version of Halloween.
Mischievous crowds and sparkling fire-
works—even if not trick-or-treaters—
roam the streets in annual commem-
oration of the abortive attempt of Guy
Fawkes to dynamite Parliament, years
ago. Police were put on extra duty and
college gates locked early in efforts
to curb vandalism this year. Never-
theless, large—if innocuous—crowds
roamed the streets..

Trifling Tidbits...
An enlightening commentary on the

British Welfare State appeared in the
London Observer recently in the form

 

of a news story. The story deals with
a man, 34 and father of seven, who
has not worked at his trade for three
and a half years because his unemploy-
ment payment leaves him more money
than would wages in his job, after
the deduction of taxes and national
health service fees.

He says: “We can manage quite
well. The national assistance board
keeps badgering me to get a job, but
why should I when it means my fam-
ily will suffer?” A more sobering
thought still: for every such case that
is reported, how many go unnot-
iced? ...

A Wadham scout (janitor-manserv-
ant) of some 30 years’ service was
asked what was the main difference
between undergraduates then and now.
His reply: “Back then the gentlemen
would change their shirts every day
and bathe once a week; nowadays
they bathe every day and change their
shirts once a week.”... Recent results
of the debates at the Oxford Union
Society are interesting for showing
trends of student thought. Samples:
A resolution that “This House Has No
Confidence in Her Majesty’s Govern-
ment” was soundly defeated; one that
“British Trade Unions Are Living in
the Past” was carried; and one that
“Capital Punishment Must Be Abolish-
ed Immediately” was carried over-
whelmingly.

The last debate followed closely after
a controversial murder trial here in
which two of the three murderers were
sentenced to hang while the third,
who was under 18, was put in reform
school.... Another controversial trial,
in which Lady Chatterley’s Lover was
acquitted of charges of obscenity, paves
the way for the novel to be serialized
in the press and conspicuously dis-
played in every book shop....The
250-odd American students at Ox-
ford are not letting a 5-hour time lag
prevent them from hearing presiden-
tial election returns as they come in.

We're gathering for an_ all-night
party at Rhodes House to hear the re-
sults piped in over short wave. British
television technicians, who are con-
siderately providing the short wave
equipment, will also have cameras to
catch students reactions to the re-

sults.

W&L Lacks Funds and Prestige
To Compete With “Ivy” League

By VICTOR LASSETER
Friday Columnist

Although Washington and Lee has
always enjoyed a reputation as one
of the better liberal arts colleges in
the South, our reputation is diminished
when compared with some of the
large Eastern schools. Washington and
Lee lacks the prestige, endowment
funds, and physical facilities to com-
pete with Harvard, Yale, or Colum-
bia. Yet in terms of absolutes, leav-
ing aside comparisons, it can be said
that Washington and Lee lacks the
necessary emphasis upon the humani-
ties to be called a true liberal arts
institution.

Our school of commerce, for instance,
has been established since the turn of
the century, but our fine arts depart-
ment was not established until some
fifteen or twenty years ago. We gradu-
ate a large number of executives, law-
yers, and journalists, but very few
historians, novelists, or critics.

If these executives, lawyers, and
journalists were the product of a lib-
eral education then Washington and
Lee would have accomplished her as-
piration: “to put major emphasis upon
broad cultural or general training.”
Fortunately, there is little emphasis
upon technical courses at Washington
and Lee, but there is not a correspond-
ing emphasis upon broad cultural
training. Our humanities courses too
often produce dilettantism. Among the
student body existentialism, Cezanne,
and Faulkner are spoken of quite free-
ly, but not taken seriously.

Courses in modern art and contem-
porary literature are nonetheless popu-
lar here, with humanities majors and
commerce students alike. The product
of such training, of course, is the well-
rounded man. What is this well-

 

rounded man? He is, according to the
artist Ben Shahn (from his 1957 lec-
tures at Harvard), “likely to be most
strikingly wanting in accomplishment
of perceptivity, in the noncurricular
attributes of sensitiveness and of con-
sideration toward all those finer arts
which are generally conceded to have
played a great part in the humanizing
of man.”

In spite of our claim to be a liberal
arts institution we are often embar-
rassed or outraged in the presence of
art, and we are often guilty of anti-
intellectualism. The outrage or em-

 

barrassment can be seen almost every
day in the duPont Hall art gallery;
the anti-intellectualism in our concept
of the gentleman’s “C” average.

There are at least three reasons for
this lack of emphasis upon the human-
ities and the ensuing dilettantism. We
are not endowed with the advantages
of a large-city cultural atmosphere
such as Columbia enjoys in New York
City. The sociological make-up of
our student body is such that many
students have decided to go into busi-
ness even before they come to Wash-

(Continued on page 4)

 

Washington and Lee Students Behind Team;
A Victory For Non-Subsidized Athletics

By MALCOLM BROWNLEE
Friday Columnist

Support of Washington and Lee’s
athletic policy reached a new peak
two weeks ago when an unexpectedly
large number of students made the
trip south to view the game with
Hampden-Sydney. The number of
Generals’ supporters at the game was
especially remarkable in light of the
fact that a dance weekend was in
process at the same time. There had
been many predictions that only a
small handful of students would be
present, but the number there ex-
ceeded the most optimistic expecta-
tions.

Most of the students who attended
the game undoubtedly had purchased
dance plans and thus were able to see
the Four Freshmen for no extra
charge. That they made the two-hour

| trip to the game instead shows a high-

ly commendable amount of school
spirit and loyalty.

 

The team can be more proud of this
type of support than any other, in-
cluding national publicity. One pur-
pose of intercollegiate athletics is to
promote school spirit. Much of the
criticism of non-subsidized athletics
has rested on the premise that such
a policy would produce an apathetic
student body and alumni with no
school loyalty. The attendance and
spirit at this year’s games seem to
destroy the foundations for this ar-
gument.

Thus the team member in viewing
this year’s attendance can feel a sense
of accomplishment. The team appre-
ciates school support more than the
average fan realizes. Much of football
is psychological, and student enthus-
iasm can, in some cases, provide an
impetus which means the difference
between victory and defeat. The sup-
port of the faculty and student body
puts a game on a higher level. It
makes it not only an individual and
team effort, but also school effort.

 

   
 

SOCIETY SAID
TO DO...

IM DOING JUST
WHAT THE MAN
FROM THE HUMANE

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

SAVED

 

KC

 

 

 
 

 

THE RING-TUM PHI

Page 3

 

 

Watch Out, Sewanee! |Generals Draw Up Battle Plans
© ® For Seventh Victim -- Sewanee

 

Washington and Lee’s Jim Hickey is on the move

Neither rain, nor sleet, nor snow can
keep Coach Lee McLaughlin’s Five-
Star Generals from their destiny—an
unbeaten season.

Playing in a steady rain last Sat-
urday, the Generals sloshed to a
6-0 win over Carnegie Tech.

Tomorrow the Generals meet Se-
wanee, the last team that was able to
defeat them, in W&L’s final home
contest at 2 p.m. on Wilson Field.

The Generals have rolled to seven
victories and one tie since they lost
to Sewanee, 15-14, last November in
the rare air atop Sewanee Mountain.

And it was the weatherman who
dealt the Generals a losing hand at
Sewanee.

Rain came down in avalanches,
a biting wind howled out of the
north, the temperature hovered just
above freezing, and a fog, so dense
that neither the fans nor the teams’
benches could see the play most of
the time, covered the field.

Even though the weather was un-
friendly, the Generals were their own
worst enemies. W&L mistakes gave
the Tigers both of their touchdowns.
The first Tiger score came on an
intercepted screen pass and their win-
ning touchdown followed a W&L
fumble in its own end zone.

“The conditions here Saturday could
not possibly be worse than last year’s

: weather at Sewanee,” McLaughlin said.

After bridging a gap at left half-
back caused by a wave of injuries,
McLaughlin has a new trouble spot—
end.

 

Steve Hawkins Leads Generals Over Virginia

In 4-0 Tilt; Soccermen Prepare For ‘Tourney

Washington and Lee’s highly erratic
varsity soccer team bounced back
from last Saturday’s pathetic loss to
Roanoke College, and trampled the
Wahoos from Charlottesville, 4-0, in
a contest here Wednesday.

Once again the Generals came to
life behind their forward scoring wall,
and once again it was center forward
Steve Hawkins who led his team to
victory—this time by scoring three
goals.

It may be remembered that in the
North Carolina State game a week
ago, it was Hawkins who pounded
the nets with four tallies that after-
noon.

In Wednesday’s contest Hawkins
put the Blue and White ahead early
in the first period as he sent the ball
past U.Va. goalie Duke Felt with barely
three minutes gone in the game.

Late in the second quarter, the
Generals put on a scoring splurge
as Hawkins picked up his second
goal. Moment later, right inside Jim
Starkey placed the ball out of reach
and into the nets as the scoring end-
ed for the half.

 

 

It’s Good usiness
To Do usiness
with IERER’S

PHARMACY

 

 

 

With a 3-0 halftime lead, W&L put
the finishing touches to their perfect
day as Hawkins powered his way
through the Cavalier defense and
added his third score of the afternoon
and the Generals’ final tally.

One sour note was sounded in the
contest, however, as a second period
pileup resulted in the injury of
General fullback Dunlop Ecker.
Ecker received a severe ankle in-
jury, and was lost to the team for
the remainder of the game.

With a 4-4 season thus far, the
Generals now prepare for the State

ale the Be ale se Be ae de he Be Be Be Be Be Be Bc Be Be de Be Be Be
ee eee ee ee ee ee

Baker
Ford Sales

@

BETTER DEALS

CLEARANCE
of lot for 1961 Models

 

 

NEW AND
USED CARS

Highway 60 East

Mie Be Ma Be Be Me Me Me Me Me Me Me Be Me Be Ma Be Ba Be Ba Be Ba BeBe Ba Bette Bete Be Be ite Ba Be
eee eeertrtrt#eeet'*'''e'e0'e0er0rrrrree

Se Me Me ie se Me atte Me ite Me Ma Ma te ie ta ha tte the tte a tte ite tte a tte ta ta ha he tte ite a Be
We Et OES Mat ORS ES ES MGS MES MES ES GS MES MGS MRS MES MES ME ET ME EY MEY Mat Mae MEY MEY Mae Mae Mae MEY MEN MET MES

 

 

 

 

 

 

THE COLLEGE INN

The Best Food in Town

American and Italian

Catering to the Students, Faculty,
and Towns People

OPEN SUNDAYS

 

 

 

2)

 

supply lasts).

ing also.

FREE

To every car owning student. A long lasting fine writing ball point
pencil. Guaranteed to run out of ink if you use it, but we will re-
place FREE when you bring it back. (This offer good as long as our

Say fellows, we have a truck load of new tires at unbelievably
low prices. RUSH over and get yours. Expert recapping and repair-

SPENCER GENERAL TIRE CO.

E. Nelson St. Extension

tournament next week at Lynchburg.
The only obstacle to this second an-
nual affair appears to be Lynchburg
College itself, which may accept a
NCAA bid to the Regional soccer
finals. In this event the State Chap-
ion will still be decided, yet there
will be a different location for the
contest.

Last year in the tournament held
here in Lexington, W&L placed second
in the State behind Lynchburg’s pow-
erful eleven. Earlier this season Lynch-
burg defeated the Generals 7-1 on
Lexington’s Smith Field.

Sete btobebbebbbebebeeteteten
NEW TOWN INN

Short Orders—Lunches
Beefootesfeoteofendo nto ode oteoferfeoteotertectenteofeoteoteoteoteoteode

 

Catering to Students

PRP

Both first unit end Ned Hobbs
and second unit end Landon Butler
were injured in the Carnegie Tech
game. Hobbs was sidelined with a back
injury on the third play of the game.
Later in the first quarter, Butler re-
ceived a severe cleat wound on his
ankle. He is lost for the season.

Also out of action for the Sewanee
contest are quarterback Phil Sharpe
and tackle Tom Budd.

The Tigers will bring a single-
wing offensive attack to Lexington
Saturday. McLaughlin hopes the
Generals will have better success
against Sewanee’s single-wing than
against Johns Hopkins’ double-
wing. The Generals tied Hopkins,
8-8.

Sewanee has a 4-2-1 record includ-
ing a 14-6 win over Hampden-Sydney
and a 14-13 victory over Centre. W&L

 

 

i i i

HICKMAN’S ESSO

South Main Street
HO 3-2024

itt a tii te tite te te il

errr rrr

 

 

%

: R. L. Hess and Bro. =
JEWELERS z

: Lexington, Virginia ;
‘ HO 3-2833 z
& ”
oe %

eee oho ee nfe fe ole ohe fe steele she ete eestor

 

      
     
     

  

Fora

WEEKEND in
NEW YORK
Gil it’s
naturally
SPECIAL COLLEGE RATES
$525 (3't0.2 room)
$625 5 Per person
$800 single

(2 to a room)

For information or reservations
address Mr. Ralph Schaffner,
The Biltmore, New York 17, N. Y.
Madison Avenue at 43rd Street
MUrray Hill 7-7000
“WHERE EVERYONE MEETS

     
     
      
  
  

   
 
 

  
  
   

 

=
:
UNDER THE CLOCK”’ 8

   

 

SPSSSESSS0S0059050090089908008200000009008SS80008 |
FOR ROOM RESERVATIONS—CALL HO 3-2151

LEXINGTON MOTEL
Large Rooms—U. S. 11 By-Pass South
Free TV—Phones—Continental Breakfast
Only Motel in corporate limits of Lexington
Seeccccccccccccecccccccceoceceeeeeccecocococccce

whipped Hampden-Sydney, 14-7, and
Centre, 21-6.

“Sewanee has been an opportunist
again this year,’ McLaughlin said.
“Hampden-Sydney made _ mistakes
against Sewanee and lost, if we make
mistakes, we’ll suffer, too.”

The Tigers’ offense is centered
largely around sophomores and-
freshmen. The main cogs are tailback
Wallace Pinkley, a 150-pound soph-
omore, and freshman fullback Pete
Woods, a 185-pound speedster.

A sharp passing attack may be a
secret weapon the Tigers plan to spring
on the unsuspecting Generals.

“We've seen Sewanee twice on wet
days when they couldn’t throw too
much, so we don’t really have a fair

pitted detibdetet eden teres

 

appraisal of their passing game,” Mc-
Laughlin said.

The Generals, unbeaten, and once
tied in seven games, are seeking their
first undefeated season since 1914. They
hope to make Sewanee their seventh
victim.

In 1958, Sewanee crushed W&L, 12-
0, on their way to an unbeaten season.
Oddly enough, the Generals were
the Tigers’ seventh victim that year.

 

 

TETLOW
TV Service

 

 

 

 

i

EX ay

wea 4

IZZA gE UL

STGAKS

HAM BuReRs

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

DIXON’S

ESSO SERVICE CENTER
ROUTE 60 EAST IN LEXINGTON

Across from the White Top Resturant
HO 3-4214

Wash, Grease, Lube, Road Service
Charge Accounts Welcome

PARAMOUNT

o-oo
pear
en
——————
+
+
nom
“

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

uth

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Sata} } ; Ht [Ts
. _
Wer Hour |
R LARGE Olas w/
= qT
: “i . x aes hic nT
{2 \ mV
1
'f rm t,

= =

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

a —}

.
e
5
2
.
\
’
,
k

% eehesfe fe ode fe oe ote of ofeote

 

foe oho oe ohe oe oho ole she oe oe oe oho fe oho ahe e ofe ae oe afe nfo nf

ROBERT E. LEE
BARBERSHOP

David M. Moore
Proprietor

221 S. Main

 

 

HO 3-2841

 

 

 

 

(Author of ‘I Wasa Teen-age Dwarf”, ‘The Many
Loves of Dobie Gillis’’, etc.)

 

A MODEST PROPOSAL

A movement is afoot—a shocking, startling movement—to
solve the problem of overcrowded colleges by the simple expe-
dient of refusing admission to women at coeducational schools!

It is argued by proponents of this plan that in today’s world
a college education is absolutely essential for a man, while for
a woman it is merely a pleasant interlude between adolescence
and housewifery. There is simply not room enough for both men
and women in our overburdened colleges; therefore, in all fair-
ness, women who have far less need of a degree than men, mist °
yield their places.

Well sir, when I heard this drastic proposal, I was so shocked
that I sat right down and lit a Marlboro. I always sit right down
and light a Marlboro when I am shocked. I also always sit right
down and light a Marlboro when I am not shocked. There is
no time, no condition, no mood, no estate when it isn’t a source
of soul-deep gratification to settle back and have a full-flavored
smoke— Marlboro, the filtered cigarette with the unfiltered taste
—Marlboro, the jewel of cigarettes— Mariboro, the pinnacle of
the tobacconist’s art— Marlboro, my comfort, haven, and eng
harbor.

Well sir, I sat smoking my Marlboro and thinking over the
shocking proposal to keep women out of coed schools, and hoping
fervently that another solution can be found. If the calamitous
day ever comes when women are banned from coed colleges, I
will gnash my teeth and rend my garments and take to my bed
without supper. Like any other Marlboro man, I love women.
I love the sight and sound of them, the cut of their jibs, their
beauty and grace, their cunning little spitcurls, their sleek
dimples, their middy blouses, their aura and effluvium. More-
over, I freely admit that when it comes to brainpower, they can
give the average man cards and spades and big casino too. It
would be a shame, a disgrace and a catastrophe to keep these
beautiful, intelligent creatures out of college.

However, it is always wise in time of fair weather to prepare
for foul. What if the advocates of keeping women out of college
begin to gather strength? We who abhor this fiendish plan must
be ready with a substitute... and it just so happens I have
one—and a mighty ingenious little plan it is, if I say so myself.

Granted that classroom seats are in short supply, and granted
that men need degrees more than women, it is still not necessary
to bar women from college. Let them go to college but—here is
the beauty part of my plan—don’t let them go to class!

 

tle tl siti 00 Saad of Hore.

This solution, it seems to me, answers every requirement. It
releases hundreds of thousands of classroom seats to needy males.
At the same time, it does not deprive women of the rich and

varied benefits of campus life. They can join sororities, shoot pool
at the Union, build bonfires for Homecoming games, pour at the

Dean’s tea, plait daisies in their hair, organize drag races, sculpt
in ice, hook rugs, walk their cheetahs, play Monopoly, find love
—in short, they can do anything except go to class.

Tell the truth, girls: Is that bad?

© 1960 Max Shulman

* * *

Classroom space is short, but smoking pleasure is in abun-
dant supply. Try Marlboros—or Marlboro’s unfiltered sister
cigarette— mild, flavorful Philip Morris, now available in
regular size or the sensational new king-size Commander.
Have a Commander—weicome aboard!
Page 4

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

Dunnell Views Leading Role
In ‘The Lady’s Not for Burning’

Ed. Note: John Dunnell is fea-
tured in the leading role of the
Troubadour production of Fry’s
“The Lady’s Not for Burning.” The
play will be presented at the Theatre
at 8:30, Nov. 16, 17, and 18. Season
tickets and individual tickets may be
purchased at the door. For reserva-
tion call HO 3-2814.)

By JOHN DUNNELL

According to Harold Clarman, drama
writer for the New Republic, there are
three basic ways of facing life: the
creative way, love and struggle with
it; the destructive way, loath and curse
it; the civilized way, suffer and accom-
modate oneself to it. The first of these
is rapidly becoming rare, the second
is a distorted form of pessimistic hero-
ism, and the third is the prevalent pat-
tern of modern intellectuals. I face life
in the third way, and sometimes even
slip back into the second. My name is
Thomas Mendip, a character in Chris-
topher Fry’s “The Lady’s Not for

ter is immediately a _ contradiction,
since this play does not have charac-
ters, it has metaphors for men. “What
a wonderful thing is a metaphor,” I
remark at one point; and how true it
is. In fact after seeing the play the
first reaction might well be that the
whole thing was a metaphor with
meaning seeping out all around the
edges.

“The Lady’s Not for Burning” deals!
with a man, a “splendid, gentlemanly, |
worldweariness” who finds life as it}
normally is a terrific bore, and who|
is willing to die for one last moment
of excitement in the aid of a young

 

 

 

MP tame Cu 2 |

STAT

LEXINGTON, VA.
|_MOBART 8-8426 |

 

 

SUN. - MON. - TUES.

RAW, REAL-LIFE
EMOTIONS!

 
  
  
     
     
 

   

SHELLEY WINTERS

—~ 1950 Academy inert oe

JAMES DARREN - JEAN SEBERG
RICARDO MONTALBAN
~ ELLA FITZGERALD

 

 

 

woman whom he finds rather attrac-
tive. In an attempt to save the woman,

Jennet Jouremayne, from being burned |

as a witch, I come to town arguing that
I should be hanged for murder, in
the hope of turning the town’s attention

from Jennet to myself. Throughout the |

play is found a conflict between dis-
pair and hope, between fanatasies and

essential facts, until I finally realise |
that there is something in the world |

to live for—Jennet.

Out of this cliche-ridden world and |

the beautiful use of metaphors comes
my philosophy of life. “Shall we not

suffer as willingly as we can?” If life |
is giving us a hard time let’s laugh|

our way through it and make it as
enjoyable as possible. Whenever you
feel that all life is against you and
you want to kill yourself, Stop! and
remember there is always something
to live for.

The role of Thomas Mendip, the vet-
eran soldier, has become a great chal-

i ' | lenge for me. Here I have the oppor-
Burning.” But calling myself a charac- |

tunity to combine into one role witty
sarcasm, turbulent anger, and a ten-
der romantic line.

Notice

There will be a meeting of the Edi-
torial Board of the Friday Edition of
the Ring-tum Phi in the Student Un-

ion on Wednesday, Nov. 16 at 5 p.m.

 

 

make ee

SUN.-MON.-TUES.

 

 

“GREAT!” “A CLASSIC!”

-N.Y TIMES -N. Y. NEWS

“EMBARRASSINGLY

”
~— SATURDAY REVIEW

INTIMA’

  

cy A SUMMER:
...love on a summer's night!

LOUIS ARMSTRONG « MAHALIA JACKSON + GERRY MULLIGAN
DINAH WASHINGTON + GEORGE SHEARING * CHICO HAMILTON
ANITA O'DAY + JACK TEAGARDEN + THELONIUS MONK

A FILM BY BERT STERN

 

 

 

‘Quemoy And Matsu Issue Was Process

| Bebated In Forensic Union

| “America should defend Quemoy

Mock Trial On; |
| and Matsu instead of offering them as

e e

| an appeasement to the Chinese Com- | Verdict Awaited
| munist aggression,” Bob Street, a KA |
senior, said at Monday night Forensic | Once each semester the students of
Union debate. | the Washington and Lee Law School

Street, who defeated Bill Buice, a|SPonsor a Mock Trial. The students
| SAE senior, contended that the U.S. | themselves arrange and conduct the |
| would lose face with the Communists | trial with the members of the law
| and the free world if it did not defend | faculty serving only in an advisory
| the Nationalist-held islands. capacity. The judge is a faculty mem- |

“The defense of Quemoy and Matsu | ber and the jury is composed of var- |
is a question of appeasement. We can- | 10S members of the student body.
not afford to follow the appeasement| For this first semester the Mock
policy of Neville Chamberlain unless | Trial Chairman is Richard Parsons.
we want another world war,” said | He had the responsibility of organiz-
Street. | ing the crime and setting up the cir- |

The defense treaty of 1949 with cumstances on which the cases would |
Formosa does not state clearly the | be based. The counsels for the defense |
United States’ obligation toward the} and the prosecuting attorneys were |
defense of the off-shore islands. Buice | chosen by Parsons.
pointed out that Former Secretary} The prosecuting attorney is Hugo|
of State Dean Acheson said that Amer- | Hoogenboom; his assistants are Tom
ica was not tied to the defense of! Feazell and Leigh Ansell. Robert Mc-
Quemoy and Matsu. But Street argued| Guire is the lawyer for the defense
that these off-shore islands are a part| and his co-counselors are John Paul |
of the soverign nation of Nationalist | and Dick Barbour.
China, and an attack against them is
an attack against Nationalist China |

itself. THE DUTCH INN

During the Eisenhower administra-
For Reservation Call

tion, Buice said, both a Joint Congres-
sional Committee and the Joint Chiefs MRS. KATHERINE ADAMS
HO 3-3433

 

 

 

 

of Staff decided that the U.S. would
not be able to defend Quemoy and
Matsu and asked Chiang Kai-shek to
remove his troops. But he refused.

 

 

 

Wayland’s Drug Store

Prescriptions, Russell Stover
Candies

Next to Rockbridge Bank

Hamric and Sheridan
JEWELERS
Watch and Jewelry Repair
Hand Engraving and Class Rings
HO 3-2022

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

W&L Lacks Prestige
(Continued from page 2)
ington and Lee; they do not have to
go through those periods of doubt and
searching which helps produce the
educated inquiring mind. These are the
dilettants, for they seek the image of
the well-rounded man, not the attri-
butes of sensitivity and _ perceptiv-

ity.

Our new research fund, increased
student interest in extra-curricular
seminars, and an increasing cosmopol-
itanism in incoming freshmen classes
are highly encouraging signs point-

| ing toward a greater emphasis upon

the humanities at Washington and Lee.
Nonetheless, Washington and Lee can-
not claim to be a true liberal-arts
college until a majority of her stu-
dents possess that perceptivity and
sensitivity which Ben Shahn describes.

Patty Present Paper
(Continued from page 1)

III, dean of the college, Dr. Edward
B. Hamer, associate professor of ro-
mance languages, and Dr. Arthur R.
Borden, professor of English. Dr. Patty
joined the Washington and Lee faculty
this September.

 

 

Lexington
Laundro Matic

209 S. Main

*

HAND IRONED
SHIRTS

Dry Cleaning

Service

for your convenience

 

 

 

Mexico Summer Session
(Continued from page 1)

Summer Session Program members
will also enjoy six weeks of planned
travel and leisure events. Included
are weekend sightseeing trips, social
functions bullfights, pyramid history,
art and culture... over 15 activities.

Special Program rates for students
and teachers, residing in modern apart-
ment hotels, begin as low as $474 and
include air transportation, living ac-
commodations and the full schedule of
activities.

Complete information for the Sum-
mer Session Program, considered to
be the outstanding foreign study-vaca-
tion to Mexico, may be obtained by
writing to: Dr. Hilton Bell, Director,
University Study Tour to Mexico,
3305 Wilshire Blvd., Los Angeles 5,
California.

 

 

TOLLEY’S PHARMACY

Prescriptions Filled
Immediately

PURCHASE DRUGS
HO 3-2211

 

 

Waggy’s Jewelers
35 S. Main Street
Phone HO 3-4121

THE HOME OF QUALITY

rrr Te ee
lil iali til ill

 

 

tht cl tn nth ncn nan

 

 

e
0
5
o.
99
oe
2
3
A.
0
5
a.
ag
o
0
R
a

and Lancer

America’s First Fine

ECONOMY CAR
*

Rockbridge Motor Co.
INC.

Phone HObart 3-3146

©OSSOCHOEHHOCHOEEEEEE
Seeeeeeooeeesoeeeeeeeee

 

 

Expert Motor Work

 

FOREIGN CARS AND STUDEBAKER LARKS
OUR SPECIALTY

MAIN STREET MOBIL STATION

Open 8:00 a.m.—8:00 p.m.

 

 

 

* as

° TEX ACO ° Traditional

: Super Service Station > cae ee -

: Lexington, Virginia : ' at aa -

. Corner Main and Nelson °
Cocccccccccseccceccecoes|| fhe

Pee TeEEMERMMeeee edb E COLLEGE TOWN
% CALL BY NUMBER = ee
z and Save Time * Student Charge Accounts
5 LEXINGTON : Welcomed

% TELEPHONE CO.
rites

 

BROWN’S
CLEANING
WORKS
We call for

and deliver
HO 3-2013 14 Randolph St.

 

 

 

 

 

 

two heads are better than one

Especially when one happens to be a delectable girl-type head.
Lovely heads are always attracted to male heads that use
‘Vaseline’ Hair Tonic — made specially for men who use water
with their hair tonic. ‘Vaseline’ Hair Tonic’s 100% pure groom-
ing oil replaces oil that water removes. In the bottle and on
your hair the difference is clearly there! Just a little does a lot!

mcagrk > 7
T'S Ceean

VAS

ELINE

  
  

‘VASEUNE’ 1S A REGISTERED TRAGEMARK OF CHESESROUGH-POND’S

 

 

Vaseline
per

| TONIC

Ae ata Way

|]

is Py Stata
| | Pandrstt

 

 

 

 

   
 

  
  

|
$

Phi

  

 

 

 

  

 

 

 

 

The College Town Shop
Thomas, Ltd.

and better stores everywhere

     
 

you're ready

for anything in

ADLERS!

ADLERS, IN WHITE AND COLORS, FOR MEN AND WOMEN, AVAILABLE AT

 

 
 

TUESDAY
Edition

Che KRing-tum Phi

Washington and Lee Semi-Weekly Newspaper

TUESDAY
Edition

 

Volume LXI

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA, NOVEMBER 15, 1960

Number 18

 

Kidnappers Are
Cleared; No

Motive Proven

By HAL McCLANAHAN

James Buchanan and Warren Welsh,
members of the Law School, were ac-
quitted of a kidnapping charge fol-
low the three hour and twenty minute
Mock Trial held last Friday in the
Moot Court of the Law School. A 12-
man jury, composed of undergraduates,
deliberated for ten minutes before
reaching the verdict of “not guilty.”

Buchanan and Welsh had been in-
dicted on a charge of kidnapping Joe
Hess, a law student, after he had been
thrown out of the Paramount Inn on
the night of Oct. 12, 1960. They had
allegedly attempted to force Hess to
drive them to West Virginia, but Hess
had crashed his car into another car
driven by John Petzold in front of
the freshman dormitory in an attempt
to escape.

The attorney for the defense, Bob
McGuire, and his assistants, John Paul
and Dick Barbour, sought to establish
their clients’ innocence by showing
that neither of the defendants had in-
tent to kipnap Hess and that neither
of them had a motive for the crime.

Hugo Hoogenboom, the prosecut-
ing lawyer, and his aides, Tom Feazell
and Leigh Ansell, attempted to prove
that the victim, Hess, did have money
and, produced a ransom note as evi-
dence of the defendants’ motive. They
also attempted to prove that Hess was
forced to drive at gun point before he
intentionally wrecked his car.

During the trial ten witnesses took
the stand, seven for the prosecution
and three for the defense. Three of
the prosecution’s seven witnesses, how-
ever, were impeached by the defense,
thus raising the question as to the
credibility of their testimony.

The Student Bar Association spon-
sors the Mock Trial as a semi-annual
event to give the law students simu-
lated courtroom experience. The law
students, aided by the law faculty in
an advisory capacity, arrange and
present the trial.

Some member of the law faculty, or
some local judge or practitioner acts
as judge. The crime, the circumstances,
the evidence—all phases of the Mock
Trial are coordinated by the Mock
Trial Chairman; this semester’s chair-
man is Richard Parsons.

No admission is charged and any-
one who wishes to see a Mock Trial
may do so. The date for the second
semester’s Mock Trial has not yet been
set.

 

Notices

There will be a meeting of the As-
similation Committee tonight at 7
p.m. in the Student Union.

* * *

The Student Service Society will
meet on Thursday, Nov. 17, at 5 p.m.
in the Student Union. All members
are requested to be present.

a * *

There will be fittings for Fancy
Dress costumes for the members of
the figure on Monday afternoon, Nov.
21, in the Student Union.

Allen, Andy Leonard, and Merv Clay.

 

Members of the cast of “The Lady’s Not for Burning” to be presented Wednes-
day, Thursday, and Friday at the Troub Theatre. They are (left to right) Bob

—Photo by Young

 

FD To Regain “Old Spirit”

 

Bond Johnson Appointed Editor

Of Winter Issue

At a recent meeting of the Board
of Publishers of Shenandoah, The
Washington and Lee University Re-
view, Bond Johnson was appointed
editor of the Winter, 1961 issue of
the magazine. Dr. Keith Shillington,
who has previously been published
in Shenandoah, will serve as director
for the issue.

Bond Johnson is a junior at W&L,
having graduated from Ramsay High
School in Birmingham, Ala.

Currently Johnson is a member
of the English Seminar Committee
and the Concert Guild. He took part
in Troubadour productions during
his freshman year. Academically, the
student from Alabama has consist-
ently been listed on the Honor Roll
and the Dean’s List.

When told of his appointment,
Johnson said, “I feel this to be the
greatest honor that has ever befallen
me. Shenandoah should be more of
a student activity; and whatever little
I do for the magazine, I hope, will be
a further step in that direction.”

During the course of the same meet-
ing two new members were appointed

 

NOTICE

There will be a meeting of the
Commerce Fraternity Thursday eve-
ning at 7 o'clock, in Newcomb 36.
All students from the University at
large who are interested in obtain-
ing summer jobs abroad are urgent-
ly requested to attend.

 

Faculty representatives have an-
nounced that 21 Washington and Lee
seniors have filed applications for post-
graduate study abroad through the
Rhodes and Fulbright scholarship pro-
grams. These two plans for student
aid provide over 1,000 scholarships
which will be awarded to outstand-
ing graduates in colleges and univer-
sities throughout the nation.

Dr. Charles Turner, W&L represent-
ative for the Fulbright Scholarships,
has filed a record fifteen applications
by the Oct. 1 deadline. Those apply-
ing for one of the 900 Fulbright grants
for a year of study abroad are: Mal-
colm Brownlee, from Rockbridge
Baths, Va., who plans to study philos-
ophy in England; David Haslett, Lamb-
da Chi from Hickory, N. C., who ap-
plied for a grant to study Philosophy in
Germany; Ed Webster, Lambda Chi
from Norfolk, Va., who lists his course
of study as international relations and
his preferred country as Great Britain.

Victor Lasseter, a Pi Phi from Kis-
simmee, Fla., has applied for a course
of study in European history in Ger-
many. Huntley Biggs, an SAE from
Huntington, W. Va., plans to study
commerce in Columbia. Roy Carpenter,
from Bryan, Texas, has applied to
Germany for a course of study in

 

 

chemistry. Don Partington, a Phi Gam
from Culpeper, Va., has applied for a
grant to study Church history in
France. Jim Vann, a Phi Psi from
Birmingham, Ala., plans to study his-
tory in Austria. Kent Frazier, KA from
Tampa, Florida, has applied to France
as a history student.

Walt Maupin hopes to study Ger-
man literature in Germany. John Paul,
a Pi Phi from New York, has applied to
England for a program of study in
law. Henry Harrell, a Sigma Chi from
Sabot, Va., plans to study English lit-
erature in England.

Drew Danko, a Phi Psi from Bound-
Brook, New Jersey, has applied to
Norway as a student of industrial
psychology. Al Broaddus, a Sigma Nu
from Richmond, Va., hopes to obtain
a scholarship in European economics
in France. Don Rhinesmith, Phi Gam
from Williamsburg, Va., has aplied to
England as a student of English Co-
lonial History.

Dr. Turner mentioned that this
was the largest group of W&L sen-
iors ever to apply for Fulbright
Scholarships. He said, “These stu-
dents have shown a wide variety of
interest in both subject matter and
location of study. The three major

 

Record Number Apply For Fulbrights

countries offering Fulbright grants
are well represented, with England
having five applicants, France three,
and Germany four. I feel that this
outstanding group of seniors should
present some eligible candidates for
Fulbright Scholarships.”

The Rhodes Scholarships are offered
annually to American college gradu-
ates who wish to study in one of the
26 colleges of Oxford University in
England. Six of this year’s W&L grad-
uates have applied for these coveted
scholarships. The regional applicants
include two from Virginia, two from
Florida, one from Louisiana, and one
from Alabama.

Henry Harrell, Sigma Chi from Sa-
bot, Va., hopes to read law at Oxford
after completing his English major at
W&L. Roy Carpenter, also registered
in Virginia has applied to Oxford as a
student of chemistry with the ultimate
goal of teaching science in prep school.

Kent Frazier, a KA from Tampa,
Fla., hopes to read history at Ox-
ford with a career as history profes-
sor in mind. Nathan Simpson, also a
KA from Tampa, Fla., has applied to
Oxford as a student of either theology
or English. George Pardington, a SPE

(Continued on page 4)

 

Of Shenandoah

to the Board of Publishers: Dr. Cecil
D. Eby, Jr., of the English Department,
who is the author of “Porte Crayon”:
The Life of David Hunter Strother,
replaces Dr. Perry; and Professor Bu-
ford S. Stephenson who translated parts
of the Autum issue of Shenandoah
under the editorship of Dean Pusey.

Appointments to the Business Staff
were also ratified: James P. Apple-
baum, a PEP junior, was named as-
sistant manager. William Burke, a
Beta sophomore and George Peters, a
SPE senior, were appointed to the
staff.

W&L Debaters
Cop State Title

An inexperienced Washington and
Lee debate team defeated the top
debating powers in the state last
weekend to capture the Tau Kappa
Alpha State Debating Championship.

Debate team coach William Chaffin
sent three freshmen and a sophomore
to Roanoke to compete in the state-

 

wide debating tournament. None of |

the four had ever competed in a
collegiate debate before.

Representing Washington and Lee
for the affirmative were two Lambda
Chi pledges, Richard McEnally and
Al Eckes. These two freshmen com-
piled a 3-1 record in competition
against 12 teams representing eight
Virginia colleges and universities.

Handling the negative for W&L
were Bill Boardman, a Beta sophomore,
and Jay Clark. In posting a 4-0 rec-
ord, this two-man team defeated both
William and Mary and the University
of Richmond, two schools which have
monopolized the debating scene in
Virginia for years.

This year, William and Mary came
in second, and Richmond finished third.

Mr. Chaffin praised his team’s
showing against their more exper-
ienced opposition, saying that “our
boys did a remarkable job in bring-
ing the state championship to Wash-
ton and Lee.”

He especially cited Jay Clark for
his showing in the meet. Clark, who
has only a few months of debating ex-
perience, pulled down third place in
the entire championship, negative di-
vision.

Mr. Chaffin expressed the hope
that his team would also be entered
in other major debating tournaments
this winter, including the Johns
Hopkins tournament to be held in
Baltimore in late January, and the
Marshall-Wythe tournament, sche-
duled for February in Williamsburg.

“Both Richmond and William and
Mary have been perennial favorites
in Southeastern debates,” he said, “but
our victory in Roanoke has established
W&L as a school to watch this year.”

‘As You Like It’? Theme

Offers Innovations

By STEVEN HENRY

Washington and Lee’s Fancy Dress
Ball will get a needed face-lift this
year, designed to restore to the event
the social prominence it once enjoyed,
Fancy Dress President Don Partington
announced last night.

Fancy Dress—1961—will have as its
theme “As You Like It” or “William
Shakespeare in the Time of James I.”

In 1952, when the same theme was
used Life Magazine thought enough
of the idea to give the dance full
coverage in one issue.

This, however, was in the days when
Fancy Dress was more than “just an-
other weekend.”

But Fancy Dress officials this year
are ready to bring back the event’s
old-time color and pageantry.

They’re starting with the decora-
tions,

There will be more than murals
around the gym this time.

The entire gym will be completely
enclosed, designed after the super-
structure of the famed Globe
Theatre, Shakespeare’s home base in
England.

Featured will be balconies, columns,
a raised stage, and a workable curtain.

There won’t be any false ceiling,
either.

Instead, the flags from various houses
of English nobility will be draped
across the ceiling adding even more
color and realism to the setting.

Added to this, Professor Fitzgerald
Flournoy, quite an authority on
Shakespeare himself, will announce
the Fancy Dress figure.

And the John Graham Brass Choir
will play during the procession.

In a prepared statement for the
Ring-tum Phi, Partington summed it
all up like this:

“In picking this theme, we are
trying to return to the old regality
of Fancy Dress.

“We are trying to get away from
the hodge-podge of costumes which
in the past few years have run the
gamut in time from Knights in
armor to confederate generals.

“We are trying to restore Fancy
Dress to its old splendor by having a
single theme which will lend unity to
the entire dance set.”

 

Professors Attend Meeting

Three members of the faculty of
the School of Commerce and Business
Administration at Washington and Lee
University will attend the annual meet-
ing of the Southern Economics Asso-
ciation this weekend in Atlanta, Ga.

Dr. L. W. Adams, Dean of the
school, Dr. Charles F. Phillips, Jr., and
Dr. Stanley T. Lowry, both assistant
professors of economics, will attend
the sessions which begins Friday.

Dean Adams will attend a deans’
conference of the association Thurs-
\day in Atlanta.

 

Generals Roll Toward Second Undefeated Season

 

—Photos by Young
 

 

Page 2

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

Che King-tum Phi

Tuesday

Edition

Member of Virginia Intercollegiate Press Association

 

IFC Proposal

The “Help Week” proposals adopted recently by the IFC
are basically sound and certainly deserve student support. The
very fact that the proposal was passed by a vote of fifteen to
one would indicate that at least the fraternity leaders approve of

the plan.

The effectiveness of this proposal depends not only upon

these leaders, but also upon

the whole student body and

more especially upon the work of the ‘‘Positive’’ committee
within the IFC, whose duty it will be to draw up a list of activities
which will be permitted during this “Help Week.”

It is significant to note that this is a “‘positive’’ committee,
and that it will take a positive approach by giving a list of ac-
tivities that will be permitted rather than vaguely prohibiting
the violation “of the principles of good taste” and all activities
that “constitute any physical or emotional hazard to the indi-

vidual.”

To avoid friction and misunderstanding in the enforcement
of the new proposal, the “positive” committee must be specific.
Every precaution must be taken to avoid ambiguity. The list
must be drawn up in such a manner that it would be virtually
impossible for the fraternity authorities to infer from its listed
activities more than was intended either by the “‘positive’”’ com-

mittee or by the IFC as a whole.

The list which is to be drawn up should not be too narrow or
restrictive and should omit only those activities which the com-
mittee believes to be imminently dangerous to the physical or
emotional well-being of the fraternity initiates.

“Help Week” definitely has its place on the Washington
and Lee campus. Since the advent of the Commons, it has be-

come even more important. It

is the only period during the

freshman year that the freshmen spend any appreciable length
of time at their respective fraternity houses. It is usually the
only period other than rush week that all of the active members
of a fraternity come in contact with their freshman class as

a class.

It is one of the few periods during the year that the pledges
have to act together as a class. They develop a sense of unity
among themselves. Strangely enough, they become more at-
tached to the fraternity. In addition, they are drawn closer to
the body of active members through their participation in a

common system of initiation.

The plan which has been passed by the IFC will serve to
protect this necessary institution from abuse from without
by restricting the abuse which has, in the past, been inherent
from within the institution itself.

 

Webster Unabridged

 

Ferre Praised; Academic Flops

Solaced; Announcer Scolded

By ED WEBSTER

To many students, the University
Religious Conference is about as wel-
come, and about as necessary, as
light is to a pair of lovers. Tradition-
ally, classes are shortened, assemblies
are held every other hour, and speak-
ers earnestly tell the students, (a)
what we already know, or (b) what
we don’t want to know.

This year’s conference was a notable
improvement over some held in pre-
vios years. For one thing, each of the
speakers held a different point of
view, for one was a rabbi, another
was a priest, and the third was a lib-
eral Protestant theologian.

Dr. Ferre, the theologian, was
warmly personable, and at the same
time outspokenly critical of the er-
rors of modern religion. Out of the
wreckage of the traditional schools
of Christianity, he built a religious
framework that was new, and yet not
really new at all. If we don’t get
busy and formulate a dynamic re-
ligion, he warned, we may be invit-
ing destruction.

Even people who dislike religious

conferences will have to admit that Dr.
Ferre may be right.

which watched the election returns
much as a spectator watches a tennis
match, will be growing up under a
new era. Kennedy, from all appear-
ances, is about the most dynamic and
effective leader in the United States
today.

If it’s any consolation to you,
Kennedy was a flop in college. He
was undoubtedly bright, but his pro-
fessors accused him of lacking pur-
pose. (Probably Harvard didn’t of-
him any New Frontiers.) What's
more, he was a poor speller.

I seem to recall that a lad named
Churchill made a notoriously poor
record in his British prep school. In
fact, many of the great artists, scientists,
and statesmen of Western civilization
have been academic misfits.

I wonder how many future geniuses |

flunk out of W&L each year. Of course,
W&L prides itself on producing gentle-
men, not geniuses.

* * *

Speaking of gentlemen, Southern
hospitality would seem to demand that
the announcer at our football games be
a little more tactful in his witticisms.
The visiting team has enough problems

 

 

. 9 on the field without having to tolerate
The present college generation,! insults from the stands.
(2-3 ° e
° °
i
i

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

e%es ©

Sctue- *

 

 

 

 

 

“Jazz on a Summer’s Day” Rated Excellent

By BILL ROBERTS

“Jazz on a Summer’s Day,” which
has just finished playing at the Lyric,
is one of the best flicks we’ve ever
seen. It certainly does credit to Mr.
Ed Side’s continuing effort to bring
the best motion pictures to Lexington.

It stands to Washington and Lee’s
credit that the local cinemas have
been feeling lately the effects of a
more critical attitude toward movie-
going. There are few courses on the
hill which fail to outdraw, say, “They
Came to Cordura.”

The film is made up of color foot-
age shot at the 1958 Newport Jazz
Festival and the America’s Cup races
late that summer. All these miscel-
laneous scenes have been woven into
a selection of music from the Festival
to form an absorbing and coherent
whole. The finished product once
again shows film-editing can rank
alongside directing, photography, and
acting as an art. Or, in broader
terms, that technology and art are

not incompatible.

The men who produced this motion
picture were faced with a tremen-
dous temptation to lapse into that
cynical depiction of normal human
gracelessness we are so used to.

The merciless photographs of audi-
ence and performer and party-er at
the Festival show a great many people
in less than advantageous poses. The
movie judiciously reveals what people
look like when they don’t know they’re
being watched and affirms that this is
as much us as the public pose.

This type of movie, one with no
narartive and no predetermined se-
quence depends, of course, very much
on the event which it considers. The
Newport Jazz festival is the biggest
and best-known of the growing num-
ber of summer jazz festivals in the
United States. It and the other similar
festivals provide a place for jazz de-
votees to get together and sample
in a few days the varying musical
fare presented them under the gener-

 

ic heading, “jazz.”

Jazz music as represented at the
Festival is a uniquely American art.
Serious jazz musicians and their listen-
ers participate in the semi-spontaneous
experience which typifies the concept
of “empathy” so often discussed in
introductory art classes. The motion
picture makes this point beautifully
and reiterates the classlessness of jazz.

“Jazz on a Summer’s Day” is one

of those few motion pictures which
set one to ruminating on abstract
and supposedly higher themes:
America, art vs. life, the direction
of modern society, etc. And one
leaves with the satisfaction that
something has been said; an attempt
to answer questions about our life
and society.

The most striking note in the pic-
ture is the diversity of music pre-
sented. It is impossible to compare
Chuck Berry and Mahalia Jackson,
and hard to conceive of a program

 

that can include them both, But that
very program presented them, and
Louis Armstrong, and Gerry Mulligan,
and many others. The festival pre-
sented them without comment. It
simply erected a bandstand and pro-
vided for an audience.

The movie does comment. Its
razor-sharp camera work probes the
physiognomy of Thelonious Monk
and juxtapositions those shots with
the announcer’s introduction of the
pianist at the festival, The ever-
grinding cameras record the wide
variety of reactions to each artist.
One comes to know certain individ-
uals in the audience.

All in all, “Jazz on a Summer’s
Day” is a wonderful motion picture,
one worth seeing again and again. The
Lyric had a good print of it this week.
We only wish the sound system were
better there. The music selected for
the film deserves the best reproduc-
tion possible.

 

LETTERS

TO THE

pitok

\3

Gentlemen:
Steps must be taken to correct the

 

unfortunate and shameful situation
now existing in Lee Chapel—not only
in the chapel itself, but more specifi-
cally in the basement museum.

One of the first horrors to greet!

the students, parents, alumni, and tour-
ists is the dreary brown linoleum run-
ner slithering down the aisles of the
chapel. Yet, this is elegent when com-
pared with the deteriorating, tasteless,
orange linoleum which covers the plat-
form. This ugly picture might be
likened to the floor of a bar and grill
rather than to that of a chapel hous-
ing the remains of General Lee and
his family.

The lighting system is also an eye-
sore. At night, those countless rows of
naked, glaring, and offensive light-
bulbs which stretch across the ceiling
presents a bizarre sight indeed.

The greatest disgrace, however,
awaits the visitor in the museum on
the basement floor. The most basic
precautions usually taken to pre-
serve valuable documents, memen-
toes, and other items of historical
interest are either unknown or vir-
tually ignored by those responsible
for their preservation. Rare original
documents, including letters and
diplomas signed by Lee, the map he
used during the war, and other items
too large in number to mention, are
suspended inside their clumsily de-
signed glass cases by thumbtacks and
scotch taps, like so many Playmate
pinups or announcements on the
ODK board.

Flags, clothing, and uniforms per-
taining to Lee and the Confederacy
are fair game to moths and other in-
sects. At least it must be assumed, for
as late as last spring one or two of
the information cards in the cases
(they have since been removed or
replaced) were partially consumed by
destructive insects.

It also appears that the same mind
that would drive a thumbtack through
the Declaration of Independence, if it
had the chance, also conceived (or is
happy to ignore) the chaotic fashion in
which the objects are displayed in the
cases. Documents are piled on docu-
ments, flags on flags, etc. The most im-
portant items seem to be on the bottom
but this is merely speculatory because
a close examination is impossible. Of-
ten the object covers up the sign de-
scribing it, or vica versa! Many signs
are upside down.

It might be argued that the mu-
seum is cramped for space, but
much of the material on display is
not worthy of being in any muesum.
Some of the items are irrelevant,
having no significent bearing on the
University, the Lee family, or the
war.

I strongly urge that action be taken
to correct the situation. Our museum,
at present, is as attractive, coherent,
and meaningful as the back end of a
loaded Salvation Army truck.

Sincerely,
RICHARD W. HOOVER

Che Ring-tum Phi

Tuesday Edition

The Ring-tum Phi is published Tues-
day and Friday during the college year.

 

It is printed w, the Journalism Labor-
atory Press, ashington and Lee Uni-
versity. The mailing address is Box
899, Lexington, Va,

Entered as second class matter Sep-
tember 20, 1946 at the Post Office, Lex-
ington, Va., under the act of March
8,

National Advertising Representative:
The National Advertisers Service, Inc.,
420 Madison Ave., New York, N.Y.

Eqitor.........s0000--k08eWell Page, III
Business Manager.............. Huntley Biggs
Editorial Board
Managing Editor................. Bill Roberts
Assistant Managing Editor..................00

 

  
 
 
  

News Editor .Bob Bridewell
Sports Edito .. .Steve Guild
Feature Editor Harvey Allen
Photography Editor.............0 Bill Young

 

 

 

The Moot Court Team of the W&L Law School entering competition at Winston-Salem, N.C. is as follows: Seated

*

(left to right) Bryant, Shepherd, and Smallwood. Standing, Co-Advisers Gilliam and Morrison.

—Photo by Young

 

Raven Rants

 

Saturday’s Game Elating Experience

By GERRY OUELLETTE

Last Saturday’s game elated us as
nothing has so done for quite some
time. From the initial kick-off our
pride increased progressively with
each new quarter. We walked the
footbridge, at the close of the game,
very tall for our size. We can only
pity those who had the occasion to
witness the game and did not do so.

In all honesty, however, we must
admit that our original plan called

 

for a Saturday afternoon spent in the
library; but fate had decided other-
wise. We discovered after trying to
force the front door several times that
our attempts were in vain. After temp-
ering our first reaction with a “Oh,
well, you can’t work all the time,”
we headed for Wilson Field. Needless
to say, research or no research, we
felt after the game that our involun-
tary choice had been worthwhile. We
can assert that having such a thing

 

Dance Board Should Not Stretch
W&L Honor System Too Far
Columnist Hoogenboom Cautions

By HUGO HOOGENBOOM

One of the strengths of the honor
system at Washington and Lee is that
it concerns itself only with those mat-
ters which are properly questions of
honor. In the main, efforts to incorpor-
ate petty little rules into the honor
system have failed, because it was
realized that an honor system can, un-
der certain conditions, degenerate in-
to an informer’s system.

For a long while the fantastic of-
fence of hiding library books was put
under the honor system, as neatly
printed cards announced. This was
done away with, to the good of the
system, for nothing creates contempt
and scorn for an honor system more
quickly than efforts to employ it to
enforce basically un-enforceable rules.

In my opinion, we are once again
attempting to enforce a rule which
does not properly come under the
honor system. This is in the matter
of non-transferability of dance plans.
The dance board decided, for per-
fectly valid reasons of their own, to
make dance plans non-transferable.
Then, faced with the extremely dif-
ficult job of enforcing this rules,
presumably asked the executive
committee to make it an honor vio-
lation (this is in no way intended
to reflect on the present dance board,
for this regulation has been in effect
for several years).

Now, borrowing a dance plan is not
inherently dishonorable, or doesn’t
seem so to many people. There is, con-
sequently, a great temptation to use
another’s plan, and the user doesn’t
feel that he’s doing anything which
can be equated to lying, cheating, or
stealing. The psychological effect of a

 

 

successful violation is great: It makes
a subsequent violation, a more serious
one, easier to commit. It breeds con-
tempt for the system as a set of petty
rules. This obviously weakens the
system.

Analogous to the present mis-use
would be a sudden declaration that
drinking in the dormitory was a vio-
lation. No transfer is equally absurd.

It is the perogative of the dance
board to decide that for financial rea-
sons they don’t want dance plans go-
ing from hand to hand. But it is, in
that case, the responsibility of the
board to enforce its own rules. A
simple system would be to announce
that any dance plan transferred to and
used by a non-owner is voided.

If something of this sort were
done, the honor system could be kept
out of the peripheral areas, where
it doesn’t belong, and returned to the
plain areas, where it does. Continued
abuse of the system will cause it to
degenerate to a condition similar to
that in many girls schools, where
even smoking is under the honor

system.
+ * *

Another of our cherished traditions
is also verging on the ridiculous, and
is being weakened by overly rigid ap-
plication. That is, of course, conven-
tional dress. It should be enforced
only within the confines of the campus.
If people won't dress decently because
of social pressure, then the appearance
our student body presents is a sham,
and doesn’t matter anyway. And per-
haps we could be spared this year
the dictates of the arbiter elegantiarum
as to whether bermuda shorts are ac-
ceptable for the concert or not.

 

as a “Football Weekend Schedule” at
the library is justified, as indeed our
experience revealed.

May we suggest that the spirit ex-
hibited by the library be spilled over
into another great source of school
spirit: the sports page of the Ring-
tum Phi. What is by name “the
sports page” often strikes the eye
as more of an advertisement page;
and this is true for both editions.

We don’t claim to be adept in the
business facet of our newspaper, but
we feel that more sports and fewer
ads on page three are in order. What’s
the use of everyone talking about
school spirit, if the school’s newspaper
displays an incapability of promoting
this very thing.

If the problem lies in the lack of
copy, may we suggest that sports
editorials and sports feature stories
are not unborn creations of the jour-
nalistic world.

* * *

We went to the flick one evening
last week, and we were rather sur-
prised at the small student attend-
ance. We wonder what new trend
has suddenly overtaken the students
of this University. We don’t see the
students in familiar town places of
entertainment; and others remark that
University sponsored activities attend-
ances are not as they should indeed
be. What has caused this? Where are
the students? Has the early cold snap
in the weather moderated the stu-
dents’ usually energetic urges; or have

| the students suddenly become addict-

ed to a new disease, which for like of
a better word, we could name study-
itis?

* * *

Rumor has it that the First Lady-
elect, Jackie Bovier Kennedy, pro-
nounced herself on the question of
American education one day last
week. When asked for her views,
she replied that she thought all
Americans should attend the Sor-
bonne. We cannot help but link this
remark with that of another First
Lady who nonchalantly murmured,
“Let them eat cake!”

* * *

Anecdote of the week heard on
campus: When reminiscing of past
great moments of his presidential ca-
reer, Franklin D. Roosevelt liked to
recall the accepted invitation to speak
at the annual, multi-dollar-a-plate,
national dinner of the Daughters of

(Continued on page 4)

 

 

 

 
 

 

THE RING-TUM PHI

Page 3

 

— Generals Win Again; This Time It’s Sewanee, 32-8

W&L Nears Undefeated Season
As The Five-Stars Smash Tigers

By BEN CHAPMAN

With their offense and defense tak-
ing equal bows, the undefeated and
once-tied Five-Star Generals took
complete command of Sewanee on
Wilson Field last Saturday and scored
a surprisingly easy 32-8 decision.

W&L piled up 439 yards on the
ground and scored in every quarter in
the almost one-sided contest. Full-
back Doug Martin and _ halfback
Charley Gummey picked up most of
the yardage for the Generals.

W&L took the opening kick-off
and drove to the Sewanee 20 yard
line where a clipping penalty halted
the march. The Sewanee single
wing attack was unable to move and
the Generals took over on the Purple
Tiger 37. This time the Generals
were not to be denied and Jim
Hickey skirted his own right end for
4 yards and the touchdown. Hickey
also added the two extra points and
W&L led 8-0.

M'nutes later Doug Martin set up
the second General score with a 43
yard dash to the Tiger 17. Charley
Gummey drove over from 4 yards out
for the score.

Leading 14-0 with several minutes
left in the half, the Generals had
another opportunity to score when
Dan Blain’s punt rolled dead on
the Sewanee 1. The Tigers punted
on their third down, but W&L’s
third unit took over on the 29. With
10 seconds remaining in the half, |
Joe Hess drove from the 2 to end |
the half, 20-0.

In the third quarter Steve Suttle
returned a Sewanee punt to the Tiger,
19 to set up W&L’s fourth score. Jim |
Russ went around end for the last |
few yards and the touch down. The try
for two points failed and the Generals
led 26-0.

In the fourth quarter Sewance |
turned to the air. Tailback Wallace
Pinkley hit wingback Agnew on the
sidelines for a 45 yard pass and
touchdown. The visitors passed for

 

 

the two extra points after faking
a kick. With five minutes remaining
in the game, the Generals scored
the final touchdown of the day. Doug
Martin scored this one from 18 yards
out to cap a 70 yard drive.

Appearing on Wilson Field for the
last time were Courtney Mauzy, Ter-
ry Fohs, Bill Willes, Mal Brownlee,
Graham Fulton, Tom Budd, Windy
Weed, Joe Hess, Jim Russ, Tiff Tiffany,
and Bob Funkhouser. Russ and Fohs,
while not seniors, are on the 3-2
plan and will move on to Carnegie
Tech next year.

The Generals will close out the
season next week against Washington
University in St. Louis on the 19th.

 

Halfback Charlie Gummey (44) breaks through to pick up a first down.
—Photo by Young

 

 

YARDSTICK
W&L Sewanee
Dit GOW coins 24 10
Rushing yardage .......... 439 79 «
Passing yardage 36 141
Pan 64 2-8 10-22
Passes intercepted by.... 0 1

Punts
Fumbles lost
Yards penalized

 

 

Frosh Swimming Team
Begins Practice With 16

|

The freshman swimming team will |
have its first test of the season in a
practice meet with VMI Wednesday,
the 16th.

Coach Norris Eastman says the
squad of 16 “has more swimming
background than last year’s team
and has a lot of potential.” The
frosh tankmen will have five regu-
lar meets in December and two in
January. The second semester they
will train for the North Carolina
Freshman Invitational Tournament |

The team this year consists of John |

 

| McDaniel, Jim Weam, Walt McManus, |

John Mendell, Bob Hollman, George |
Spalding, Willy Williams, John Lun-
(Continued on page 4)

 

 

MYERS
HARDWARE
COMPANY

 

LEXINGTON
CLEANERS

Phone HO 3-3813 108 S. Jefferson

 

 

 

The Southern Inn

Cordially invites you to make this your headquarters for good food
Here you get the best food for the most reasonable prices

Our Specialties:

Steaks, Chicken, Country Ham, and the best sandwiches
in town

Meet your friends here

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ROCKBRIDGE LAUNDRY

and
Dry Cleaners

Shirts Transparently Wrapped
for Freshness
*
AGENTS:

Fraternities, Dorms and Co-op

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ise 2d Se dina

 

    

STUDENTS ACCOUNTS INVITED HERE
Member F. D.1. C.

stewie: 5 eitciasccies od latch anda. 4

 

 

=
|
|
|

 

Cagers To Open
‘On December 1

|
| 1°60-61 season has been announced
| with a few changes from last sea-
| son’s. Norfolk Division of William
and Mary and Franklin and Marshall
| College are the only new teams on
| this schedule, with Washington Col-
|lege being dropped. Of the teams
on the eighteen game schedule, only
two of them hail from states other

The basketball schedule for the

than Virginia. With the addition of

i Norfolk William and Mary, the Gen-

|erals meet all Little Eight teams

| except RPI.

4

The complete schedule is printed
below.

| 1960-61 BASKETBALL SCHEDULE

Delts Still Lead In I-M Events; Phi Delts Win Golf Tie

A busy week of intramural activity
was climaxed on Friday afternoon by
the annual Turkey Trot.

The Turkey Trot this year was won
by the Delts, although they did not
take the first place position. Coming
in first was Phi Gam pledge Skip
Essex.

The finals of the golf round-rob-
in developed into a three-way tie,
and in the playoff Friday afternoon,
the Phi Delts picked up the vic-
tory over second place Phi Gams

 

 

PPePereeeTeseeereeeneones

%

$ IDEAL :
BARBER SHOP +
QUICK SERVICE :

*%
eode oho ohe she rhe rhe ole nfo fe oho ote ofe whe fe ake oe ole ole ae oe ole oho fe

 

and third place Kappa Sigs.

Play in the football leagues con-
tinued with the league champions to
be decided shortly. Another event,
bowling, entered its second week of

(Continued on page 4)

Radio Hospital

*
Radio, TV, Phonograph
Sales and Service

*
HO 3-3531

 

 

 

 

 

Route 60 Buena Vista

POSSE SOOOSOHOOHSOOOO OOO ESOSOTOOCOSESOSESGOOOHDOSES |

Ted’s Steak House

Finest Foods
Choice Meats

w
SUNDAY DINNERS

 

 

Got the good word about
Greyhound Scenicruiser
Service®? It's the latest,
the greatest way to go...
with air-conditioning, pic-
ture windows, air-suspen-
sion ride and complete
restroom! You'll have a
ball headin’ home on a
Greyhound — it’s often
faster than other public
transportation, and always
less expensive!

IT’S SUCH A COMFORT
TO TAKE THE BUS...AND

GREYHOUND TERMINAL

 

 

HIP, HIP, HURRAY

for the
GREYHOUND way

to save money!

     
 

    

COMPARE THESE LOW,

LOW FARES:
NEW YORK...................814.08
PHILADELPHIA ........ 10.89
BALTIMORE. ................. 7.98
WASHINGTON 6.38
*plus tax

 

BAGGAGE PROBLEMS? You can take more with you on a
Greyhound. Or, send your belongings by Greyhound Package
Express. They arrive in hours and cost you less!

LEAVE THE DRIVING TO US!

 

HO 3-2424

125 McLaughlin

 

 

 

 

 

Dec. 1—Bridgewater College....There
Dec. 3—Norfolk W&M.................. Here
Dec. 5—Univ. of Richmond................

(Site to be decided)

Dec. 8—Randolph-Macon............ There
Dec, 10—Sewae’..........csscsssessosssssee Here |

 

Coaches Corner

Sewanee G WU

The white jerseys didn’t seem to
hurt us and neither did the purple
ones of the Sewanee Tigers.

It was as much a defensive victory
as it was an offensive one. The de-
fensive play of Tommy Goodwin, Doug
Martin, Bill Willes, Tommy Keesee,
Mickey Walker, and Joe Hess took
away from Sewanee the favorite play
of the single-wing attack, the off-
tackle power play. While the three
unit combination was accomplishing
this feat the rest of the squad managed
to hold the Sewanee ground attack to
a mere 76 yards.

For the first time this season we
failed to intercept an enemy pass.
This is a credit to the fire-bullet
passing of the Tigers.

For an unsung hero I pick Phil
McCaleb who switched from tackle
to end this week to fill a vacancy
created when Ned Hobbs was side-
lined. Phil did yeoman service on
the Gold unit.

(Continued on page 4) (Continued on page 4)

 

    

 

—,

(Author of “I Was a Teen-age Dwarf”, “The Many
Loves of Dobie Gillis’’, etc.)

    
 

HOW TO BEAT THE BEAT GENERATION

My cousin Herkie Nylet is a sturdy lad of nineteen summers
who has, we all believed until recently, a lively intelligence and
an assured future. Herkie’s father, Walter O. Nylet, is as every-
one knows, president of the First National Artificial Cherry
Company, world’s largest maker of artificial cherries for ladies’
hats. Uncle Walter had great plans for Herkie. Last year he
sent Herkie to the Maryland College of Humanities, Sciences,
and Artificial Cherries, and he intended, upon Herkie’s gradu-
ation, to find him a nice fat wife and take him into the firm as
a full partner.

Could a young man have more pleasing prospects? Of course
not. But a couple of months ago, to everyone’s consternation,
Herkie announced that he was not going into the artificial cherry
business. Nor was he going to stay in college. “I am,” said
Herkie, ‘‘a member of the Beat Generation. I am going to San
Francisco and grow a beard.”

Well sir, you can imagine the commotion in the family when
Herkie went traipsing off to San Francisco! Uncle Walter would
have gone after him and dragged him home, but unfortunately
he was right in the middle of the artificial cherry season. Aunt
Thelma couldn’t go either because of her old leg trouble. (One
of her legs is older than the other.)

            

“une Wo aesou P

So I went. I searched San Francisco for weeks before I found
Herkie living under the counter of a Pronto Pup stand. “Herkie,
how are you?” I cried, looking distraughtly upon his tangled
beard, his corduroy jacket, his stricken eyes.

“Beat,” said Herkie.

I offered him a Marlboro and felt instantly better when he
took it because when one smokes Marlboros, one cannot be too
far removed from the world. One still has, so to speak, a hold
on the finer things of life—like good tobacco, like easy-drawing
filtration, like settling back and getting comfortable and enjoy-
ing a full-flavored smoke. One is, despite all appearances, basi-

cally happiness-oriented, fulfillment-directed, pleasure-prone.

“Herkie, what are you doing with yourself?” I asked.

“T am finding myself,” he replied. “I am writing a novel in
the sand with a pointed stick. I am composing a fugue for
clavier and police whistle. I am sculpting in experimental ma-
terials—like English muffins.”

“And what do you do for fun?” I asked.

“Come,” he said and took me to a dank little night club
where men in beards and women in basic burlap sat on orange
crates and drank espresso. On a tiny stage stood a poet reciting
a free-form work of his own composition entitled Excema: The

Story of a Boy while behind him a jazz trio played 200 choruses
of T'in Roof Blues.

‘“Herkie,” said I, “come home with me to the artificial cherries.”
“No,” said Herkie, so sadly I went home to tell Uncle Walter
the bad news. He was less distressed than I had feared. It seems
Uncle Walter has another son, a quiet boy named Edvorts, about
whom he had completely forgotten, and today Edvorts is in

business with Uncle Walter and Herkie is beat in San Francisco,
and everyone is happy.
© 1960 Maz Shulman

* + o

And you too will be happy—with Marlboros, or if you prefer
an unfiltered smoke, with Philip Morris. Try the brand-new
Philip Morris king-size Commander—long, mild, and leis-
urely. Have a Commander—welcome aboard!
 

 

Page 4

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

A ski and skate show will be held |
in the mezzanine of the Robert E. Lee
Hotel this Saturday from 10 a.m. until
5 p.m., it was announced today by |
Pres Brown, sponsor of the program. |

On hand will be Sepp Kober, well-|
known ski instructor at the Home-
stead, and Betty Shurbin, skating in- |
structor at the same resort.

Seven door prizes, including a trans- |
istor radio, ice skates, a wool ski shirt, |
an imported pullover ski shirt, alum- |
inum ski poles, and a how to ski}
record, will be given away, according |

to Brown.

The senior class placed the largest
number of students on the mid-se-
mester honor roll. Eighteen of the 38
honor roll students were seniors.

In the junior class, nine students
achieved honor roll standing. The
sophomore and freshman classes each
placed three students.

Dean Frank J. Gilliam explained that
seniors earned the higher grades be-
cause they had become adjusted to
feeling their potential. In comment-
ing on the number of freshmen on
the honor roll, he stated, “By past
experience, the number of freshmen
on the honor roll will increase at
the end of the semester.”

Last year only twenty-six students
were on the first mid-semester hon-
or roll. Of that number, only two
were freshmen.

To qualify for honor roll standing,
sudents must earn a 2.5 average, re-
ceive no grade below a “C” and suc-
cessfully meet the requirements of
the Physical Education Department.
This year four students were denied
placement on the honor roll because
of the provision concerning physical
education.

Jerry Dattel, Chairman of the Sen-
ior Ring Committee, announced that
senior rings will go on sale Wednes-
day in the fraternity houses. The rings
will vary in price from $30.50 to $36.95.
The schedule for the ring sales is as
follows:

 

 

STANLEY WARNE®

STAT

LEXINGTON, VA.

 

 

STARTS WED.

“6 ..we had put her
living in the tomb!”

    

 

AMERICAN INTERNATIONAL presents

EDGAR
ALLAN
POES

classic tale of THE EVIL

House oF
OG

.CINEMaScCOPE
»o COLOR

stavainc VINCENT
mite

 

 

 

For those extra pieces

of
FURNITURE

for your room
see our stock
before buying

Cs
VARNER AND POLE

News Briefs

Wednesday
Phi Delt, PiKA;

Friday through Monday—Sigma Chi,
Sigma Nu, Phi Kap;

Tuesday and Wednesday—Delt, DU,
Kappa Sig;

Tuesday, Dec. 6 and Wednesday,
Dec. 7—ZBT, Lambda Chi, Phi Ep.

Senior rings will be sold in the
Co-op and the Student Union from
Thursday, Dec. 8, until Christmas va-
cation.

and Thursday—Beta,

Officers for the newly reorganized

| Forensic Union were elected last night.

Philip McCaleb, DU, was elected pres-
ident of the group. McCaleb, a soph-
omore, is on the varsity football team,
debate team, and was a freshman re-
porter for the Ring-tum Phi.

Pete Bennett, a Sig Ep junior, was
elected vice-president. Bennett has
served two years on the W&L debate
team. John Poyner, a Phi Psi junior,
is the new corresponding and publici-
ty secretary. He also serves on the
executive board of the Concert Guild.
In addition, Allan Barnett, a Sig Ep
sophomore, was elected secretary of

 

21 Apply For Scholarships
(Continued from page 1)

from Houma, La., plans to enter the
Episcopal ministery after studying the-
ology at Oxford. Jim Vann hopes to
read history at Oxford in preparation
for a career as a history professor.
Dr. Fitzgerald Flournoy, W&L rep-
resentative for the Rhodes Scholarship
Committee, said, “This is the strong-
est group of applicants that we have
ever had. Since they are applying
in four states, we hope that we may
get one or two scholarships.”

 

 

 

 

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Coaches Corner
(Continued from page 3)
the new Union. oe This week we have two enemies to
fight, the wounded Bears of Washing-
From The Sun Dial, Randolph-| ton University who have a 2-6 rec-
Macon Woman’s College, Lynch-| ord and complacency. If we can get
burg— this one we will have a good chance
Since there are no longer na- | 0f having a fairly good season!
tional sororities on campus, and COACH MAC
the old sorority houses are being
used for the activities of all stu-
dents, the SUN DIAL will spon. | Basketball Schedule
a contest for the re-naming of (Continued from page 3)
these houses. Dec. 13—Emory & Henry............ Here
It is suggested that those enter- Dec, 15—Catholic Univ There
ing submit a list which has cen- : ee
tral theme upon which the names Dec. 1¢—Franklin & Marshall..There
of all houses can be based. This, | Jan. 7—Univ. of Chattanooga....Here
however, is not necessary. Jan, 9—Hampden-Sydney............ Here
Entries should be submitted to | Jan. 11—Bridgewater College....Here
Box 222, Main by November 15. | Feb. 4—Hampden-Sydney........ There
They should be typewritten with | Feb. 8—Randolph-Macon............ Here
the contestants name clearly indi- | Feb 11—Lynchburg College......There
cated. The editors of the SUN | Feb. 13—Univ. of Va.............0.0.00... Here
DIAL and the presidents of SGA | Feb. 15—Roanoke College.......... There
and the House Council will be | Feb. 17—Catholic Univ................. Here
judges. Feb. 21—Emory & Henry............. There
—We can think of a few names.
|
| Delts Still Lead IM BROWN’S
(Continued from page 3)
competition, but no winners have CLEANING
been decided yet.
With the fall phase of the intra- WORKS
murals nearly over, Director Joseph
Spivey said that the Delts have re- We call for
tained their unofficial lead in the :
point totals. and deliver
The next events scheduled to get|| HO 3-2013 14 Randolph St.
underway are handball and basketball,
which start on Nov. 28.
ele oot oeste eof oefeoeote sented oententeogenfeoeateeotenteoeetesteoeodeteeobeeoteteodeseobeteteoteteoet

 

 

We Feature

 

 

 

Coach Eastman Announces

Frosh Swimming Schedule
(Continued from page 3)

dy, Pete Summers, Warren Holden,

Skip Hickenlooper, Butch Kross, Kim
Kimble, and Ed Norton.

Rounding out the team in diving
events will be Bruce Houghton, Randy
Wooten, and Brian Dorsk.

The freshman schedule is as follows:

Freshman Swimming Schedule

Dec. 6—Univ. of Va. Frosh............ Here
Dec. 7—Staunton Military
Dec. 9—Massanutten Military........Here
Dec. 15 Lynchburg College............ Here

 

 

Green Valley Motel

One Mile North on
U. S. Highway No. 11

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA
HO 3-2195

 

 

 

 

Raven Rants
(Continued from page 2)

the American Revolution. Mr. Roose-
velt, who had been the first president
to speak to the formal gathering for
quite some time, approached the speak-
er’s rostrum with his usual dignity
as first gentleman of the Republic.
His opening words were, “Fellow im-
migrants....” Mr. Roosevelt was not
applauded nor was he ever reinvited.

 

 

White’s Music
Store

(Opposite State Theater)
*k
Phonographs—Hi-Fi
Expert Repair Service
i

5 W. Nelson St.
HO 3-3522

Lexington, Va.

Ce ee ee
la lh i a lh li el oe he ee
Se sBe Be he ste he Re he Re tte Be Be Be Be te te the Ba te te Bete tte-tte he Be tte te tte Bette tee te
ee ee Se Se eS eS eS eS Se ee ee

 

 

Se Me Be Be Me Be Be Ba he he he a Be he he he he he he ee ete
gt PEt Ee gt at ET ET ET ES NN RS SS eS ee

 

 

 

LEEEEE LEED L EEE LEEDS ED EEE ELE ELLE EEE

Shirt Service as You Like it
Quality Cleaning and Pressing
UNIVERSITY CLEANERS

\

.

5

:

a HO 3-3622

%

*

; “Your Campus Neighbors”
.

.

ee eho enhe ote rhe borbe ere ote eee ere ofa oe obese esse ender ofe eof ese esrb he obese oe fete

wie

OF ele ore dere odode nfo fe fended rte nfo rfenteofedenteode

 

 

 

Open a convenient student Checking account
TODAY

at

Rockbridge National Bank

Member Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

$00000000000000000000004

Try our delicious foods
Route 60 East

 

 

 

z a
¢ THE NEW }
+ 4
° 4

: White Top ;
4

% 4
: Restaurant :
4

* %
[ =
+ 4
= A personal invitation 3
5 to the ;
z Students :
: :
- ;
* 4
% S
* cS
;: ;

ate
ee re a a re re re a a te te ee eS eS SS eee

 

Fe oGe of ofa ole oe ole oe ode fe oko ae ole oho oho oe ofe af ole afe ofe fool

 

 

 

 

The First National Bank

of Lexington
*
has special checking accounts

for students

does

 

 

 

Tareyton has the taste—

Dual Filter

% *
' ¢
+ +
4
i \ * : ¥
* Dairy Products *
+
WED.-THURS. $ “To get the best get Sealtest’”’ :
me || *
‘é yy | Is over twenty different products in addition to *
BRI LL ANT : delicious Sealtest ice cream *
Bosley Crowther, Times = Block and Crushed Ice %
v : Your favorite mixes—Ice Cold :
-RANCOIS TRUFFAUT'S : * ;
- * e me
: Maple-Rock Distributors, Inc. :
2 Phone HO 3-2168 z
with
“Ps SEAM PIERRE LEAUD F ® l t f
VARSITY fl
BILLIARD a \ Or
ACADEMY —finest flavor by far!
Catering
To Students
Corner of
Washington and Jefferson

THE TAREYTON RING MARKS THE REAL THING!

it!

 

NEW DUAL FILTER

Do az > "¢ : .
Product of She thesrtonn Ire bon any — Subaceo is our middle name ©a 7 co
os

 

 
    

Here’s how the DUAL FILTER DOES IT:

1, It combines a unique inner filter of ACTIVATED CHARCOAL
... definitely proved to make the taste of a cigarette mild and

smooth...

2. with a pure white outer filter. Together they select and balance
the flavor elements in the smoke. Tareyton’s flavor-balance gives
you the best taste of the best tobaccos.

Tareyton

 

 

 
 

 

FRIDAY
Edition

Ohe Ring-tun Phi

Washington and Lee Semi-Weekly Newspaper

FRIDAY
Edition

 

Volume LXI

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA, NOVEMBER 18, 1960

Number 19

 

Thirty - Three
On Honor Roll
At Mid-Semester

Midsemester reports show that 33
students have made the Honor Roll.
These 33 students represent an in-
crease of seven over those students
making last year’s midsemester Honor
Roll.

Of these 33 students. 30 of them are
upperclassmen, while three are fresh-
men. Twenty-four upperclassmen and
two freshmen made the midsemester
Honor Roll last year, while 22 upper-
classmen and two freshmen posted the
necessary 2.5 average or better in the
fall of 1959.

The seniors led the school with
the largest number of honor students,
17, and the juniors were next with
13. The freshmen and sophomores
tied for third place with three honor
students apiece.

The following seniors made the Hon-
or Roll: C. L. Anderson, J. W. Atwell,
J. A. Broaddus, D. P. Danko, S. I.
Danzansky, H. H. Harrell, S. Haw-
kins, T. C. Imeson, C. R. Mauzy, G.
P. Pardington, B. E. Pierce, J. G. Pow-
ell, M. F. Schwartz (all A’s), N. P. B.
Simpson, J. A. Vann, B. H. Vitsky,
and E. G. Webster.

Juniors making the Honor Roll are
S. R. Chernay, J. L. Goldstein (all A’s),
J. W. McClung, W. M. McKim, G. R.
McNab, S. M. Painter, J. C. Parker,
S. W. Rutledge, H. L. Slater, and
C. M. Whitehead.

R. M. Christian, G. T. Coward, and
C. M. Morrow (all A’s) are the three
sophomores who made the Honor
Roll.

Representing the freshman class are
Honor students J. D. Cravens, W. A.
Noell, and J. H. Wiggs.

 

Pres Brown To Sponsor
Ski And Skate Showing

A ski and skate show will be spon-
sored by Pres Brown’s Sport and
Camera Shop tomorrow from 10:30
a.m. until 5 p.m. The show, featuring
both ski and skating instructors from
the Homestead and continuous show-
ing of winter resort films, will be
held on the mezannine of the Robert
E. Lee Hotel.

L've models will show winter sports
outfits, and everything needed for the
skater and skier will be on display.

Refreshments will be served and
door prizes will be awarded.

Sepp Kober, ski instructor, and Miss
Pat Surbin, skating instructor, at the
Homestead will discuss skiing and
skating techniques individually with
all persons.

According to Pres Brown, the fol-
low'ng door prizes will be awarded:
transistor radio, pair of ice skates,
wool ski skirt, imported pullover ski
sh'rt, alumnium ski pole, “how to
ski” record and a can of ski wax.

 

Two Professors

Are Speaking

Dr. Ollinger Crenshaw, professor of
history at Washington and Lee Uni-
versity, will attend a Civil War Round
Table conference this weekend at
Gettysburg College, Gettysburg, Pa.

He will be one of eight college pro-
fessors who will speak at the confer-
ence. Dr. Crenshaw will discuss “Poli-
tics in a Divided Nation.”

Dr. Crenshaw, a member of the
Washington and Lee faculty since 1926,
centered his master’s doctornal re-
search around political activities im-
mediately preceding the Civil War.

He is a graduate of Washington and
Lee and received his Ph.D. from Johns
Hopkins University in 1945. He is
the author of The Slave States in the
Presidential Election of 1860.

Dr. Leonard E Jarrard, assistant
professor of psychology at Washing-
ton and Lee University, will be one
of two featured speakers Friday at a
regional meeting of the American Col-
lege of Hospital Administrators in Roa-
noke.

Dr. Jarrard will talk during a morn-
ing session on the subject “Why Peo-
ple Work.” The meeting will be held
in the Hotel Roanoke.

A University of Virginia psychology
professor will be the other key speak-
er for the meeting. Dr. Richard Hen-
neman of the Virginia faculty will
center his afternoon talk Friday around
the theme of motivation.

Dr. Jarrard, who received his Ph.D.

from Carnegie Institute of Technology, |
|Gamma Delta won the keg for the
fraternity giving the most blood.

joined the Washington and Lee facul-
ty in September, 1959.

 

Atlanta Symphony Here Saturday

The Atlanta Symphony Orchestra under the able direction
of Mr. Henry Sopkin will present a concert Saturday, Nov. 19,

 

Atlanta Symphony Orchestra to play here Saturday.

 

Fines Upped To $30
By Library Committee

Due to recurrent violations of li-
brary policy, the Executive Commit-
tee has granted the Student Library
Committee increased fining powers.

The maximum fine for violation
of rules of the library committee has
been increased to $30.00. Formerly,
the maximum fine for an offense was

$5.00.

Brian Vitsky, chairman of the Stu-
dent Library Committee, stated that
this increased fine was necessary be-
cause of the continuing disregard of
the rule of the library committee in-
volving unauthorized removal. He also
stated: “Concern has been expressed
by Mr. Coleman and by the Faculty
Library Committee, as well as by many
professors with reserve shelves in the
library, that this rule is constantly
broken by students.”

According to Vitsky, books and per-
iodicals have been removed without
being properly checked out. The li-
brary committee stressed the fact that
the purpose of this rule is to keep
books available to all students who!

 

have need for them.

The previous $5.00 fine seemed to
be a small threat to many students
so the EC found its recent step neces-
sary. Vitsky emphasized that al-
though the $30 is a maximum fine,
the committee will not be lenient
with deliberate violators. He added
that if the unauthorized removal
constitutes deliberate stealing, it be-
comes an honor offense to be delt
with by the Executive Committee.

In addition to unauthorized removal,
there are three other violations of
committee rules: hiding; mutilation
and destruction; and excessive noise.
Other members of the Student Library
Committee are: Joe Goldstein, Pete
Agelasto, Craig Distellhorst, Dick
Hoover, Herb Salomon, Milford
Schwartz, and Jim Stott.

Vitsky urges all students to help
enforce the library rules. The viola-
tions boxes are located in McCormick
Library and in the chemistry library.
The rules of the committee apply in
all of the university libraries.

 

Col. McLaughlin Emphasizes Sino-Soviet Threat
In Lecture On Army Tuesday Evening In Lee Chapel

Col. Charles V. McLaughlin spoke
before a large crowd of ROTC Cadet
Corps and other interested people last
Tuesday night in Lee Chapel.

In discussing the Army’s role in
planning for modern warfare, he placed
special emphasis on the Sino-Soviet
threat, and called for a flexible mili-
tary response which would provide for
the application of measured force ade-
quate to respond to all aspects of the
threat.

He emphasized the obligation of the
U.S. military forces to prevent Com-
munist inroads anywhere in the world,
and, in doing so, deter all forms of
military conflict. If the deterence part
of planning should fail, the forces of
the United States must be able to
win any type of war, whether of con-
ventional or nuclear nature.

As the two basie principles of high
level planning responsibilities he men-
tioned continual study and vigilance.

 

Fiiis Win Blood-Drive Keg
For Fourth Straight Time |

A Red Cross Blood Drive was spon-
sored at the University this past
Wednesday. John Mullin, a KA soph-
omore from Atlanta, Ga., represented
the IFC and the local Red Cross
worker, Mrs. Adhouser, in seeing that
things went according to schedule.

Mullin reported that the quota of
one hundred and twenty-five pints was
almost reached during the course of
the afternoon’s blood letting.

Of the eighteen fraternities, the
Fijis and the Delts proved to be the
most generous. The former gave thirty-
five pints and the latter eighteen, Thus
for the fourth year in a row, Phi

He reminded the audience that this
high level planning is a very com-
plex and responsible process. The se-
curity policy worked out in this
planning was intended to preserve the
people of the nation, their fundamen-
tal values, institutions, and culture.

As for the Army, specifically, the
program’s purpose is to insure that it
is prepared to conduct prompt and
sustained operations on land, the tra-
ditional role of the United States Army,
as the ground-gaining arm of our de-
fenses.

 

Hollins Cotillion

Opens Tonight
With Morrow

By JOHN KIRKLEY
Assistant News Editor

The Hollins Cotillion, an annual
fling for the young ladies, will be
held tonight and tomorrow. The big
weekend will include two dances at
the Hotel Roanoke, a Saturday after-
noon concert, a Sunday brunch, and,
delight of delights, Open House in
the Hollins dorms on Saturday after-
noon,

Buddy Morrow and his band will
perform at the formal dance which
will be held Friday evening from 10
until 2 in the ballroom of the Hotel
Roanoke,

Morrow’s band has produced such
famous songs as “Night Train,” “One
Mint Julep,” and “I Don’t Know.” In
addition to the regular music, there
will be the outstanding musical vir-
tuosity of Buddy Morrow on the
trombone. His skill is evident in such
famous pieces as “Tara’s Theme” from
Gone With the Wind.

Morrow’s musical repertoire includes
the whole spectrum of popular music
from early dixieland, rhythm and
blues, and intricate ballads to full pro-
gressive jazz interpretations.

The Four Freshmen, a popular group
here at W&L, will entertain the ladies
and their escorts at the concert, which
is to be given Saturday afternoon.

Saturday evening the McCoy Broth-
ers, a group new to the entertainment
field, will play for the informal dance.
Again the dance will be in the Hotel
Roanoke ballroom; this time however,
it will last from 8 until midnight.

Usually, there is at least one fatal |
accident during this time. Charles F.
Murray, the university proctor, urges
all W&L students to observe safe driv-
ing over the weekend. Students, he
said, should be extra careful if the
roads are foggy or wet.

 

Glasgow Lecturers ‘Here
Between Nov. 28--Dec. 9

Three professional writers will visit
the Washington and Lee campus be-
tween Nov. 28 and Dec. 9 under the
auspices of the Glasgow Endowment
Fund.

Noted poet John Ciardi, novelist |

William Humphrey, and _television-
screen writer Merle Miller come to

W&L for a series of public addresses |
and classroom discussion, says Dr. Ross |
Borden, chairman of the Glasgow com- |

mittee. Each of the writers will de-
velop themes centered around their
particular fields. The whole series will
deal with the “problem of the arts and
the public.”

The appearance of these writers
on campus will mark the second ap-
plication of the “Arthur and Margaret
Glasgow Endowment,” a fund estab-
lished at Washington and Lee in 1957
“to promote the art of expression by
pen and tongue” at the university.

 

Ciardi, currently professor of Eng-
lish at Rutgers University,

 

will be'

here Nov. 28-30 as the first of the
Glasgow-sponsored visitors. Hum-
phrey will be here Nov. 30-Dec. 2 and
Miller will speak Dec. 7-9.

Cairdi was born in Boston and is
a fellow in the American Academy
of Arts and Sciences and the National
Institute of Arts and Letters.

Novelist Humphrey is the author
of Home From the Hill, published in
1957. He had a volume of short stories
published two years before his novel.

Miller is the author of four novels
and a non-fiction work. He has had
television credits with Playhouse 90
and an NBC special production on the
life of Ira Hays. He wrote the screen
adaptations for “Rains of Ranchipur”

| F. Phillips,

 

and “Kings Go Forth.”

Funds unexpended in the actual ad- |
ministration of the Glasgow program |
accumulate as a Glasgow Publications |
Fund. It will be used for publishing |
of the persons under the endowment
and students in the program.

in the Doremus Gymnasium at

8:15 p.m.

The Orchestra is being brought to the Washington and Lee

| campus by the W&L Concert Guild.

The program for the evening includes Bach’s Brandenberg

W@GL Enters Moot Court
Competition Against UVa.
Today At Wake Forest

Washington and Lee University’s
Moot Court team entered regional
competition today at Wake Forest
College in Winston-Salem, N. C.

The five-man team, under the di-
rection of co-chairman Robert L. Gil-
liam, Jr., Union City, Tenn., and John
C. Morrison, Charleston, W. Va., will
defend the Blackheart Insurance Co.
in a case with National Labor Rela-
tions Board. They will argue against
a team from the University of Vir-
ginia.

Moot Court teams from the Univer-
sity of North Carolina, University of
Richmond, William and Mary, Duke
University, University of South Caro-
lina, North Carolina State College,
Wake Forest and the University of
West Virginia will participate in the
two-day competition.

The winner of the regional competi-
tion will take part in a national com-
petition in New York City.

Team members from Washington
and Lee include Thomas B. Bryant,
III, Orangeburg, S.C.; Gerald E.
Smallwood, Winchester; and Robert
E. Shepherd, Richmond. All are sen-
ior law students.

Alternates for the team are Ray-
mond Robrecht, Plainfield, N. J.; Wil-
liam Moore , Norfolk; and Joseph
Spivey, III, Raleigh, N. C. They are
intermediate law students.

W&L Seniors
Visit Exchange

Twenty-four Washington and Lee
University seniors enrolled in ad-
vanced economics courses will tour
the New York Stock Exchange Tues-
day and Wednesday in a specially ar-
ranged visit.

The students—all enrolled in invest-
ment and business cycles courses in
the university School of Commerce and
Business Administration—will also visit
two stock brokerage firms and other
New York financial companies.

The trip, the ninth such for busi-
ness and commerce seniors, will in-
clude an unprecedented visit of the
floor of the Stock Exchange, according
to Dr. L. W. Adams, dean of the School
of Commerce and Business Adminis-
tration.

 

 

 

Public Utilities Fortnightly
Carries Dr. Phillips’ Article

A discussion of “Regulation in a
Competitive Economy” by Dr. Charles
Jr., assistant professor
of economics at Washington and Lee
University, will appear in the Nov.
24 issue of Public Utilities Fortnightly.

The article is a revision of a paper
Dr. Phillips presented in September
at an economics symposium at Har-
per’s Ferry, W. Va. The symposium
was sponsored by The Chesapeake
and Potomac Telephone Companies.

Dr. Phillips argues in his article that
“the regulation of public utilities must
be more efficient and flexible if pub-
lic utilities are to survive.”

Public Utilities Fortnightly is dis-
tributed nationally to management
personnel and college libraries.

Dr. Phillips, a member of the Wash-
ington and Lee faculty since 1959,
is the author of eight articles for other
economic journals. His current field
of research is government regulation
of business.

He received his A.B. degree in 1956

from the University of New Hampshire. |

He earned his M.A. and Ph.D. degrees
from Harvard University.

Carter Fox Gives Seminar

Carter Fox, a KA senior from Aylett,
Va., spoke to a Chemistry Seminar to-
day at 5 p.m. His subject was “Pre-
stressed Concrete.”

A tea was served at 4:30, followed
by Fox’s talk.

In his talk, he pointed out the
qualities of pre-stressed concrete and
its use as a building material.

* Concerto No. 3 in G. Major, Symphony

No. 2 in D Major by Johannes Brahms.
Prelude for Strings, a composition
by W&L’s own Prof. Robert Stewart
will be played also.

Prof. Stewart’s Prelude was written
for the 1959 Southeastern Conference
and was first performed at the sym-
posium by the University of Alabama
Symphony Orchestra conducted by
Mr. Sopkin. The Prelude is being in-
cluded in all the tour programs of
the Atlanta Symphony this season.

Mother Goose Suite Featured

Following the performance of the
Prelude, the Orchestra will play
Mother Goose Suite (Ma Mere L’Oye),
a piece written for the ballet in 1912 by
Maurice Ravel.

The concluding selection will be
“The Pageant of P.T. Barnum Suite for
Orchestra,” composed in 1924 by Doug-
las Moore. Mr. Moore received the
Pulitizer Prize for music in 1951 and
is considered one of America’s lead-
ing composers. The movements in the
“Pageant of P. T. Barnum” include
Boyhood at Bethel, General and Mrs.
Tom Thumb, Jenny Lind, and Circus
Parade.

Atlanta Group Founded in 1945

The Atlanta Symphony Orchestra is
in its fifteenth year, having been
founded in 1945 as the Atlanta Youth
Symphony. Its first conductor was the
talented Mr. Henry Sopkin. Prior to
joining the Atlanta Symphony Orches-
tra, Mr. Sopkin gained wide recog-
nition for his work with student or-
chestras and by many musical works
he has edited and arranged.

In Top 25 Orchestras

In the span of fifteen years the At-
lanta Symphony has grown to a mem-
bership of 80, and is ranked among
the 25 major orchestras of America.
The orchestra extends its activities to
the concert centers of seven South-
eastern states.

Admission to the concert is by sea-
son ticket, or by paying $1.25 for a
ticket.

The next program presented by the
Concert Guild will be on Dec. 6, when
Michael Block, pianist, plays in Lee
Chapel.

Glee Club Sings

The Washington and Lee Glee Club
will sing Handel’s Messiah along with
other choral groups and The Roanoke
Symphony Orchestra Sunday, Dec.
4, at 4:00. The concert will be at the
American Theatre in Roanoke.

This concert is an annual one, and
it is a great honor for the glee club to
be asked to participate. Washington
and Lee’s will be the only college
singing group; the others will be local
choirs and choral groups for the most
part.

The Roanoke Symphony Orchestra,
conducted by Gibson Morrissey, is
well-known throughout the state and
considered by many to be the finest
orchestra in Virginia.

 

 

Go Generals,

Beat The Bears;

   

{

*

Ve

Go

 
 

 

Page 2

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

Che Ring-tum Phi

Friday Edition

 

Retrograde

Withdrawing from our usual sallies of “gadfly’’ intent, of
crying for reform and lauding progress, we question the moti-
vations under which this University is moving toward excel-
lence.

Although old areas of nebulous interpretation are being re-
defined, which appears a necessary contribution to progress,
more and more there is denial of student integrity in situations
of University life.

We would cite three “progressive” movements which, in an
effort to better provide for the student body as a whole, are, in
essence, denying the individual necessary consideration.

Those students and faculty which comprise the Student
Library Committee visualize a goal of dramatic reduction in
“unauthorized removal” and other violations. Consequently,
they have raised the maximum fine, tightened the restrictions
and increased their threat.

The Dance Board wishes to provide the University with
adequate dance sets, but recognizes that financial prerequisites
must be met. Their effort, consequently, is severe and de-
manding. There can be no transfer of dance plans at the risk
of jeopardizing the necessary financial status. To assure this,
once again restrictions are tightened, and the Honor System,
unjustly, serves as the deterrant looming over the student’s
head.

Another illustration of this tendency can be found in the
athletic department. Formerly, a student who participated in
Intramural athletics had to meet medical requirements by
signing a pledge guaranteeing the specific amount of practices.
Once again, failure to properly follow policy equals punish-
ment. The motivation, however, is deeper than the threat, and
more than likely, a new policy to guarantee compliance will be
formulated by the athletic department and the intramural
board policy which will be worded under the concept of “do
this or else...”

And again, the main problems confronting the IFC in
their “Hell Week dilemma” are those of enforcement and
punishment with regards to the restrictions they levy. Paradox-
ically, they are seeking to strengthen the position of the indi-
vidual.

The Honor System has a purpose, and it does not deny
an individual integrity. It maintains standards of honor, but an
individual is not forced to be honorable at Washington and Lee.
That is probably one of the reasons the system has endured
here for a century. The Honor System, as well as the other
traditions, do not, as many think, pose a threat, they foster an
ideal. This ideal reinforces an individual’s integrity.

We call for a re-examination in those progressive areas
whose means are thwarted with this “force” concept. If this is
not successful, we would sanction student protest on the grounds
as we have stated them.

If we can achieve our goals by srengthing the integrity of
our members, rather than sacrificing it, Washington and Lee
will truly be doing its part as a liberal arts institution.

Slow Down And Live

The Friday Staff of the Ring-tum Phi asks all students who
are going to the Hollins Cotillion tonight and tomorrow night
to slow down—and live.

As the university proctor pointed out today, at least two or
three accidents occur between W&L and Hollins during this
weekend every year.

We realize that it is a temptation to travel a little faster
than the speed limit, but we urge all students traveling the roads
to observe safe driving habits, especially during this weekend.

We would ask that all students remember this: “Slow

   

 

down—the life you save, may be your own.”

—R. R. G.

 

Characters In Troubadour Play
Are All Given Excellent Rating

By BOND JOHNSON
Friday Reviewer

Pride, you know, is one of the seven
deadly sins. Or so we were told last
night at the production of Christo-
pher Fry’s “The Lady’s not for Burn-
ing.” Let’s hope it’s not too deadly,
because the Troubs are going to have
a hard time avoiding it after tossing
about Fry’s sensibly nonsensical lines
so delightfully last night.

Peopled by such characters as a
mother who tells us she is sure the
end of the world will come in the fall
instead of in April because God would
never disappoint the bulbs, and a drunk
who in his thanatopsis tells us how
tiring this everlasting life is, the play
clips along at a healthy pace.

Setting in 15th Century

In a setting that is “more or less
exactly” fifteenth century, the mori-
bund, the nonchalant, and the male-
volent have a lot to say that juxtaposes
quite fittingly into our own topsy-
turvy century. The cast says it all,
very skillfully.

Andy Leonard as the chaplain gave
a poignantly hilarious portrait that was
in ways the triumph of the evening.
Passionately in love with his mis-
treated violin, always appealingly lost,
he was the only character who in-
spired spontaneous applause on his
exit.

Performance By Allen Is Funny

Bob Allen, once he warmed up to
the audience’s laughs, gave a perform-
ance that was equally, if in a more
sophisticated way, funny. Never once
losing the character of the mayor, he
delivered some of the best lines in the
play devastatingly. Mervyn Clay as
the judge formed an effective foil to
the mayor. His performance was ex-
cellently sustained.

Yvonne Dickens, practical and solid
as the mother, Ron Alenstein and
Firth Spiegel, moon-eyed and virile

 

as her sons, were all attractive in their

 

WHAT A NIGHT! Troub actors shown here in their production of “The Lady’s
Not for Burning” which completes its three-day run tonight. —Renshaw Photo

roles. Liza Tracy and Dick Roberts
were the beguilingly simple-minded
young love birds.

Dunnell Portrays Mendip

John Dunnell brought to the role
of Thomas Mendip the same resound-
ing voice and calculated grace that
made him such a success in “Taming
of the Shrew.” Margaret Davis, as the
lady not for burning, was charming.
Her voice her movements, her insight
into the role are those of a profes-
sional.

Tim Morton, as the ruddy-nosed and
omni-beneficient drunk who appeared
near the end, was good enough to

 

The Leaf-raker’s Concert

Snubbed By Students

By THORNS CRAVEN
Friday Columnist

Last Friday I made my initial appear-
ance on this page, and since you've
all laughed loud and long I’m going

to do it again.
Since I’ve already
been here once
there’s no need to
re-introduce my-
self, and I can
launch immediately
into my humorous
bit.

From the head-
line you’ve probab-
ably surmised
(since you're so
smart) that this is
a critical review (in the Jimmy Vann,
or James Vann vein) of the annual
Leaf-Raker’s Concert. I’m sorry that
it’s a week late, but since the Friday
Edition is only published on Friday
(except leap years when it comes out
on Friday), this tardiness must, in all
fairness to me, be overlooked.

And since you're overlooking me,
I'll overlook Mr. Vann as is the cam-
pus custom. But I will not overlook
him until I have criticized his lack
of depth reporting in his column of

he

Craven

 

last week. While his words were well-

chosen concerning the Sullins-W&L
concert he completely omitted any
mention of the concert presented on
the preceding evening by the Amal-
gamated Leaf-rakers and Campus
Cleaners Union, Local No. 709 1/4,
Branch 47-J of the International
Teamsters Union, under the leader-
ship and paternal protection of our
father and protector, Jimmy Hoffa;
James C. Petrillo conducting.

If Mr. Vann is going to chastise the
student body and faculty for missing
Te Deum then he should at least men-
tion the inspiring, if off-key, rendition
of “Autumn Leaves” offered by the
Leaf-raker A Cappela choir. Naturally
this was the high spot of the evening,
since it is the group’s theme song,
naturally.

The rest of the program consisted
of raking over the coals of other old
standards. Things like “September
Song,” “Gone With the Wind,” and a
reworking of the old favorite “I'll Be
With You in Leaf-Raking Time,” done
to the tune of the Star Spangled Ban-
ner.

Needless to say, those of you who
missed the program (held at Liberty

(Continued on page 4)

 

U.S. Hopes For Sign Of

In Results Of Japanese

By ROBERT C. KETCHAM
Friday Columnist

With the campaign over several
esoteric comments can be made on
another election to
be held this month,
Japan’s general
election on Nov.
20. The Liberal-
Democratic Prime
Minister Hayeto
Ikeda is expected
to win this elec-
tion running on
what was original-
ly billed as the
“Security treaty”
platform.

This election seems to be turning
more on economic policy than on de-
fense policy; therefore, a victory of
Ikeda’s party does not necessarily mean
that Japan’s votes unqualifiedly support
the treaty. There are 467 seats in the
Diet; the Liberal-Democrats are put-
ting up 396 candidates, while the So-
cialists are running 186. The Socialists,

   

Ketcham

 

who prefer neutralism, cannot hope
to win a majority, but they can claim
a moral victory if their vote increases
by about 30 per cent.

The United States emphasis on de-
fense is largely traceable to the Ko-
rean War. That conflict encouraged
us to build up our policy of con-
tainment by a chain of interlocking
global bases, military alliances and
regional military forces. Japan, Oki-
nawa and the Philippines were utilized
as forward bases from which to plan
defense. It is demonstrable that this
policy has deterred Communism.
However, our defensive policy has also
bred fears and phobias which reduce
the certainty of its future value.

People Think of Security

Most peoples are prone to think in
terms of their own security. When a
local base is looked upon by the popu-
lation as capable of drawing unde-
sirable elements and also appears in-
defensible, it is no longer wanted. The
United States must recognize that its
base must be capable of doing more

 

than protecting our own security. Our
own vested interests extend into the
concepts of friendships and allegiance
of that country in which the base is lo-
cated.

There have been several unfortunate
incidents which have lowered our
respect and appreciation in Japan: the
U-2 incident and its profitable propa-
ganda exploitation, Kishi’s unpopu-
larity with his people, some base in-
cidents which involved citizenry and
the Okinawa American administra-
tion which, many Japanese feel, vio-
lates “residual sovereignty.”

Friction Somewhat Abated

On the other hand, the friction has
been abated somewhat with the dis-
appearance of most of American
ground forces in Japan. The afore-
mentioned incidents are unlikely to
reoccur, but they have seeded doubts
not easily overcome.

Economically Japan is much improv-
ed, largely because of the close eco-
nomic ties with the U.S. Last year
the Japanese rate of growth was an;

 

Victory
Election

unbelievable 16 per cent. The Japanese
people associate this record with the
Liberal-Democrats, and by implica-
tion with the U.S.

If we can maintain our reciprocal
trade, giving them a market for their
products, we can do much to prevent
Peking’s successful wooing of Japan.

Relations Would Be Natural

Establishment of the trade relations
between Japan and Peking would be
a natural, were one party not Com-
munist, because of the Sino-Japanese
similarities of culture and thought,
not to mention geographical proximity.
Even with the Communist threat
many Japanese industrialists wish to
resume trade with this block and,
at the same time be impliedly com-
mitted to staying in our shadow. To
minimize this trade possibility we must
maintain a positive presentation of
capitalism wth freedom, plus the op-
portunities for trade.

With Japan coming of age to think
for herself it is almost too much to

(Continued on page 4)

make us wish we had seen a lot
more of him.

Direction and Costumes Good

The vaulted sets were better than
the sets for Fry’s translation of
Girandoux’s “Duel of Angles” pro-
duced in Washington. The direction
was gracefully effortless and yet care-
fully controlled. The costumes were,
as the sets, very nicely done.

Unfortunately, due to the poor fa-
cilities of the Troub Theatre, there
was some trouble with sound effects.
Once, before a cock’s crow, there was
a noise that sounded suspiciously like
surface static on our record player.

Need New Curtain Apparatus

Oh yes, one last thing. It seems that
the Troubadours with their splendid
sets and performances, have shown
themselves worthy to be given a new
curtain pulling apparatus. This one
behaved embarrassingly during the
last two acts and the curtain call.

 

Notices

All students interested in officiating
intramural basketball games please
contact the head basketball official,
Larry Smail, in the law school or at
HO 3-4463.

Prior experience playing or of-
ficiating basketball is desired but not
necessary .

Remuneration is two ($2.00) dollars
per game.
* * *
The Editorial Board of the Friday
staff will meet Wednesday at 5 p.m.

 

Honor System

Should Not Be
Over-Extended

By MALCOLM BROWNLEE
Friday Columnist

My honor is like a small rubber band.
It can be stretched, s-t-r-e-t-c-h-e-d,
s-t-r-e-t—ched! Whoops! Too far.
Can you not see it is only a small rub-
ber band? You must consider its limi-
tations.

Within its limits my honor is very
strong, very strong indeed for its size.
Gentlemen always
have strong hon-
or—for them, it is
a cardinal virtue—
and I, of course,
am a_ gentleman.
But everything has
its limits, and my
honor is no excep-
tion.

It is strongest, in
i s fact, when it is not

stretched at all,
_— somewhat flabby
then perhaps but in its most comort-
able state. How I wish it could always
be in that comfortable state; but it
cannot be, for people do not recog-
nize my honor’s limitations.

   

Recognize It’s Limitations

Why can they not recognize its limi-
tations? Why must they stretch the
rubber band until it breaks? Can
they not see that an unstretched, un-
broken band is better than a band
that is stretched and broken? They
are trying to destroy my honor. They
are trying to snap it in pieces.

These Dance Board people, for in-
stance, what right have they to stretch
my honor? What is there dishonor-
able about telling a white lie about
my name? Is there dishonor in avoid-
ing a few dollars’ fee? One would
think I was a kid sneaking into a
circus. My honor cannot be concerned
with such petty things.

 

Notice

The Graduate Record Examina-
tions will be given in Washington
Hall 25 tomorrow morning. Students
taking the exams are requested to
be in the room by 8:45 a.m.

 

Che Ring-tum Phi

Friday Edition

The Ring-tum Phi is published Tues-
day and Friday during the college year.
It is printed wi, the Journalism Labor-
ere Press, ashington and Lee Uni-
versity. The mailing address is Box
899, Lexington, Va,

Entered as second class matter Sep-
tember 20, 1946 at the Post Office, Lex-
ington, Va., under the act of March

National Advertising Representative:
The National Advertisers Service. Inc.,
420 Madison Ave., New York, N.Y.

 

  

Editor-in-Chief................ Nathan Simpson
Business Manager.............. Huntley Biggs
Editorial Board
Managing Editor................ George Hont,
Assistant Managing iiditor... reassess .
seseibt pasiietdiariansiviecsions oy Good
BEG FE is asnsisiasosincasiessleces v! n > Nea
Sports Editor.. ll Outman

‘om Rains

Copy E Tom Jordan
Photography Editor..Clarence Renshaw

Examination Schedule
January 16, 1961 through January 26, 1961

It is the responsibility of each student to know the time and place of
meeting of each of his examinations. The hours for examinations are 9:00-12:00.
and 2:00-5:00. Any student more than five minutes late must present a sat-
isfactory reason for his lateness to be allowed to take the examination.

The ommission by a student of any regular examination causes him to for-

 

 

 

 

feit his place in the class and to receive grade F for the semester, unless he is
excused for reasons deemed sufficient by the Dean and the instructor concerned.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

MORNING—9:00 A.M. AFTERNOON—2:00 P.M.
DAY Sled tnmetantions Consolidated Examinations
All Sections of:
16 January | Classes at Block I—M.WF.| Commerce 201
Monday 12:05 except those otherwise! History 107
scheduled.
17 January | Classes at Block B—T.T‘S. Accounting 101
Tuesday 8:25 except those otherwise| Biology 1, Chemistry 1
scheduled. Geology 1, Physics 1
History 265
18 January | Classes at Block D—T.TS.| Military Traini i
Wednesday | 9:20 except those otherwise re
scheduled.
20 January | Classes at Block F-TTS. Classes at Block J—TT: ag ee
Friday 10:15 except those otherwise] 12:05 exce otherwi
: pt those otherwise
scheduled. scheduled,
21 January {Classes at Block H—T.T\S.| French 1, 151, 161, 201
Saturday 11:10 except those otherwise | German i oh 151
scheduled. Spanish 1, 151, 161, 201
23 January (Classes at Block A—M.WF. Economics 101
Monday 8:25 except those otherwise| English 1, 5
scheduled.
24 January | Classes at Block C—M.WF| Political Sei
Tuesday 9:20 except those otherwise ee
scheduled.
25 January | Classes at Block E—M.W-F.| Mathematics 1, 151
Wednesday | 10:15 except those otherwise Psychology 101
scheduled.
26 January | Classes at Block G—MWF. English 151
Thursday 11:10 except those otherwise History 1
scheduled.

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

/

THE RING-TUM PHI

Page 3

 

Generals Launch Final 1960 Campaign Saturday,
Seek 8th Win, First Undefeated Season Since 1914

By JOHN ALLGOOD
Assistant Sports Editor
One more game.
One more win.

An undefeated season!

With a win over Washington Univer-
sity of St. Louis tomorrow, Coach Lee
McLaughlin and his Five-Star Gen-
erals will step into the Washington
and Lee football hall of fame.

With a win, the Generals will post

seamen eee

Peas
[ .

the second undefeated season in the
school’s history.

Already McLaughlin and his Gen-
erals have crushed enemy after enemy
in piling up the best football record
since 1915.

Already McLaughlin and his Gen-
erals have proved that a non-subsi-
dized football team can win just
as often as the subsidized teams.

Depth—W&L is three-deep at each

   

Courtney Mauzy, W&L tri-captain, makes last appearance tomorrow.

position—has been one reason that the
Generals have been so successful this
season.

The depth helped in the early games,
but it really began to pay off when a
wave of injuries struck the team about
mid-October. As General after Gen-
eral was injured, there was always
another General waiting to take his
place.

The injury bug first struck left
halfbacks Bob Funkhouser and

 

W&L Booters Plan Surprise, 4-3-3 Attack,
For Lynchburg In Virginia Tournament Today

This afternoon marked the opening
of the second annual Virginia State
Soccer Tournament which is being
held this year at Lynchburg.

The opening round began earlier
this afternoon as the University of
Virginia met VPI in a contest at 1:00.

The afternoon’s second match at
3:00 featured the W&L Generals
against the Hornets of Lynchburg
College.

The tournament finale will take place
tomorrow night at Lynchburg’s base-
ball stadium with the two losers of
today’s games playing at 6:30. To-
day’s winners will play the champion-
ship playoff at 8:30.

In last year’s tourney held at W&L,
the Generals placed second to Lynch-
burg in a contest that saw the Blue
and White play three games in the
last day, only to drop the nightcap,
4-3.

This year Coach Joe Lyles hopes
to pull the upset of the year, and

 

 

Lexington
Laundro Matic

209 S. Main

*

HAND IRONED
SHIRTS

Dry Cleaning

Service

for your convenience

 

 

 

 

   
      
    
  

WEEKEND in
NEW YORK
it’s

‘
GBILT MORE
naturally
SPECIAL COLLEGE RATES —
per person a
$525 (3 to a room)
per person
$625 (2 to a room)
$800 single
For information or reservations
address Mr. Ralph Schaffner,
The Biltmore, New York 17, N. Y.

Madison Avenue at 43rd Street
MUrray Hill 7-7000

“WHERE EVERYONE MEETS
UNDER THE CLOCK”

  

 

 

at the same time avenge a rather
long standing grudge that exists
between W&L and the Hornets.

It is a sad, but sorry fact, that a
W&L soccer team has never managed
to win a single contest from Lynch-
burg in the five years that Lynch-
burg has played soccer.

Although Lynchburg trampled the
Generals earlier this season, 7-1, Lyles
figures that his new offensive attack
pattern may prove to be the margin
of victory against the rather com-
placent Hornets.

This attack involves an entirely new
offensive line that forms in a 4-3-3 pat-
tern rather than the accustomed 5-3-2.
While this may not impress too many

 

 

BROWN’S
CLEANING
WORKS

We call for
and deliver

HO 3-2013 14 Randolph St.

 

 

 

 

spectators, it may definitely serve to
surprise Lynchburg, and maybe even
slow up their All-American cannon,
Helmut Werner.

The General soccermen face George-
town University in their last game of
the season next Tuesday in Wash-
ington. With a 4-4 mark, exclusive
of their tournament record, the Blue
and White will face a team that is
subsidized.

Baker
Ford Sales

BETTER DEALS

CLEARANCE
of lot for 1961 Models

 

 

NEW AND
USED CARS

Highway 60 East

2. .2..2..3..2.2.2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 © 2 2 © 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 6 2 2 eo 2
Teer. TjT'*'*t'*''t't'ter reer
Se-ste he he See Be Ba Be Be Ba Be te Ba tie tte ite te ta Ba ite ite Be Me tte ithe dhe te te he te ta tte te Be
TTT eT TTT eee

 

 

Be he Be Be Be he Me Be he he he he he a he he he Ba he ta te he
——s eS se eT eee eee eee

 

DIXON’S

ESSO SERVICE CENTER
ROUTE 60 EAST IN LEXINGTON

Across from the White Top Resturant
HO 3-4214

Wash, Grease, Lube, Road Service
Charge Accounts Welcome

 

PARAMOU

—

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

r

 

 

ue al

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ee 4) 1 TTT
A ~ ‘op?
a Af a > >! Z Om
= EE
PIZZA _ . Warr P
HAM Bupatas Langs glass wi
; > TueS.Nic WTS
’ ¥
i s Bk buf ‘"] ike
\ iY ’ é- =
Ss ME i)
am, p
= rn
ie S\N

 

 

 

 

 

Skipper Smith, then the bug hit ends
Ned Hobbs and Landon Butler.

Now fullback Doug Martin and half-
back Charlie Gummey, the two race
horses who galloped for 246 yards
against Sewanee last week, are on
the injured list. Both are doubtful
starters for tomorrow’s game.

But as usual McLaughlin has sev-
eral seasoned football players stand-
ing in line to take over Martin’s and
Gummey’s positions.

Ready to go at fullback are sopho-
more Tommy Keesee and senior Joe
Hess.

McLaughlin has no worries about
Keesee—he’s the boy who chugged
64 yards in the mud to give the
Generals a 6-0 win over Carnegie
Tech.

Ready at Gummey’s left half slot are
juniors Jim Hickey, who has been
showing flashes of greatness after an
early season injury, and Dave Tharp.

The Bears of Washington U. have
only a 2-6 record to place against
W&L’s 7-0-1 mark, but they play
a tougher schedule, according to Mc-
Laughlin.

“We know from experience that
Washington will be a cut above the
level of opposition we usually en-
counter on Saturday,” McLaughlin
said. “They play very strong teams
and they have looked well on oc-
casion despite their six losses.”

The Bears seemed to have had
trouble putting two good halves to-
gether since they beat Missouri
Mines, 34-12, and Wabash, 10-8,
early in the season.

Scout Buck Leslie reported that last
week the Bears had little trouble mov-
ing the ball against Butler in the first
half, but bogged down in the second
half.

Washington utilizes straight power
and effective trap plays off their wing-
T formation. Halfbacks Al Huenfeld
and Terry MacKey supply the Bears’
running power.

Last year the Generals staged a come-
from-behind 35-26 victory over the
Bears to climax a 3-4-1 season.

Fighting to keep the team from
taking a complacent attitude, Mc-
Laughlin said, “I'm hoping that the
boys will recall how the Bears push-
ed us around for better than three
quarters last year before making
mistakes that cost them the game.”

(Continued on page 4)

 

“With one freshman, nine sopho-
mores, three juniors, and a_ senior,
this year’s squad certainly will be
young,” basketball coach Bob Mc-
Henry said.

“This team will make mistakes, but
with an emphasis on defense and team
effort, it will give its opponents real
trouble.”

After several weeks of practice the
starting five consists of John Kirk
and Bret Thackston, guards; Dave
Grogen and Roger Fauber, forwards;
and John McDowell, center.

McDowell is a 6-5 freshman whom
McHenry considers to be a prime
basketball prospect.

Pushing hard for a starting berth is
returning letterman, Ken Kowalski, a
clever playmaker.

The W&L basketball team will
start its 18-game schedule at Bridge-

 

 

Waggy’s Jewelers |
35 S. Main Street
Phone HO 3-4121

THE HOME OF QUALITY

re

re

lieth

M cHenry Plans To Emphasize Defense,
|Team Effort With Youthful Cage Squad

water Dec. 1. The first of nine home , and Fred Ridolphi.

games will be Dec. 3 against Nor-
folk Division of William and Mary.

Last year’s cage squad compiled a
7-10 record. It lost twice to Bridge-
water, 62-59, and 63-51; and did not
play Norfolk Division of William and
Mary.

McHenry tested his squad against
VMI last Wednesday and was fairly
pleased with its showing.

The freshman cage team is also
shaping up.

Coach Joe Lyles’ starting five at
this stage are Dave Britt, Steve
Walsh, Robin Kell, Gordon Taylor,

Pressing for a first string position
are Jeff Williams, Fred Shaffer and
Charlie Savage.

Lyles has been scrimmaging his
charges every day in an effort to give
them conditioning and game-like ex-
perience.
reer eee eee re eee ee ones

= ROBERT E. LEE
BARBERSHOP
David M. Moore
Proprietor

Pee ebb dedededetetededeoh heb

 

4
4
4
‘
4
4
*
4

 

ES eee ee Ft

 

 

Traditional
W&L BLAZER
With University Crest
and Buttons
The
COLLEGE TOWN
Shop

Student Charge Accounts

Welcomed

 

TETLOW
TV Service

221 S. Main HO 3-2841

 

 

 

 

 

It’s Good
To Do
with

PHARMACY

usiness
usiness
IERER’S

 

 

 

 

   

Tried
Regular

Filter

Cigarettes?

When your taste tells you
it's time for a change,
remember: Only Kool—
no regular filter cigarette,

 

Tried
Other

Menthol
Cigarettes? “""*

NOW! Come Up...All The Way Up
to the MENTHOL MAGIC

of KOOL!

no other menthol cigarette—
gives you real Menthol Magic!

 

 

FOR ROOM RESERVATIONS—CALL HO 3-2151

° LEXINGTON MOTEL
. Large Rooms—vU. S. 11 By-Pass South
. Free TV—Phones—Continental Breakfast

Only Motel in corporate limits of Lexington
SCOOHHSSSSSSOOHOSHHOHOOOSOOHOOESEEOOOESECESESEEEE

YOU FEEL A
NEW SMOOTHNESS
DEEP IN YOUR THROAT!

©1960, BROWN & WILLIAMSON TOBACCO CORPORATION ingiyy THE MARK OF QUALITY IN TOBACCO PRODUCTS

   
 
 
 
 
  
         

ALSO
AVAILABLE
WITHOUT
FILTER
Page 4

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

Varsity Billiard Academy Caters
To Students, But Faces Problems

By TOM JORDAN
Copy Editor

“Rack, Teddy!”

A dark-haired, young man jumps
up from the stool he is sitting on,
puts down his Police Gazette, and hur-
ries to rack the billiard balls for some
impatient pool players.

This is a familiar scene at the Var-
sity Billiard pool room. Ted Macheras,
the friendly proprietor, runs the pool
room exclusively for W&L and VMI
students. He bought it in January of
1960 and, unfortunately, thinks that he
will have to sell it before June.

“Business is good for seven months
of the year, when the students are
here, but for five months there’s no
business,” says Teddy. “I'll either
sell the pool room or open up another
business here.”

Students Will Miss Pool Room

Several students will miss the pool
room if Ted should sell. VMI cadets
would miss it too, for they usually
take over when they are let out. There
are, percentage wise, very few W&L
students who play pool, but the ones
who play do so frequently, and, in
general, make up for the deficiency in
number.

“Exam time is the most active,” Ted
says, “because many students like to
play for a break in studying.” Of
course, party weekends are usually
slow for Ted.

Teddy has been in business in Lex-
ington for almost 20 years, most of
the time in the beer business. The
pool hall was a new venture for him
when he bought it from Pete at the
College Inn.

Pool Room Is Clean

The most impressive feature of the
pool room is its clean appearance.
Pool rooms are usually thought of
as dark, dirty joints where hoods
hang out all the time. It is just the
opposite here. Ted’s pool room is clean
and well-lighted, and one is always in
the company of students. Music is
usually heard over the radio, and the

two pin-ball machines in the rear are
generally in use, and the four pool
tables are clean and in good condi-
tion. To be sure one occasionally has
trouble breathing when the air be-
comes saturated with smoke, but the
large fan suspended from the ceiling
usually relieves the situation. The
room has a semi-modern appearance
with large windows, a few comfortable
chairs, and fluorescent lighting. A
magazine stand with such literature as
Post, Look, Life and, Teddy’s fav-
orite, Police Gazette provide enter-
tainment if one is waiting for some-
one else to play a game with.

Caters to Students

Teddy caters to students by giving
them a clean, attractive place to spend
those extra hours. His prices are
reasonable and he occasionally is host
to a bottle of coke.

It is surprising that more students
don’t play pool. “About 90 per cent
of those who play never touched a
cue before coming here,” according to
Ted. Pool, although it may have a bad
connotation as far as some people are
concerned, is a difficult game to play
and requires a great deal of skill, after
one gets out of the eight-ball rotation
stage. There’s a lot more to the game
than hitting a billiard ball into a
pocket, as a few have found out.

If Teddy should close the Varsity
Billiard, several students will miss
him, and, I’m sure, hope that Teddy
doesn’t sell.

 

Notices

Costume fittings for members of the
Fancy Dress Figure will take place
on Monday, Nov. 21, from 9 a.m. to
5 p.m. in the Student Union.

* * *

There will be no meeting of the
Friday Staff of the Ring-tum Phi on
Wednesday.

 

 

 

 

 

STATE

LEXINGTON, VA.
|_MOBART 3-3424 |

 

 

SUN. - MON. - TUES.

B SURPRISE CAST!
. SURPRISE STORY!
‘gq PRIZE-PACKAGE COMEDY !

COLUMBIA PICTURES

 

Rake

SUN.-MON.

The Rank Organization presents
PETER FINCH
EVA BARTOK

 

 
   
   

aise starring ALEXANDER KNOX *
Sereenpiay by MICHAEL McCARTHY and JOHN ELORIOGE
Produced by MAURICE COWAN
Directed by MICHAEL McCARTHY

 

 

     
 

 

 

 

PEANUTS (aaa THE NEXT THING YOU KNOW
WANT TO SEE THEY'LL BE SELLING BEETHOVEN
BEETHOVEN'S SWEAT-SHIRTS !
BIRTHDAY
COMMERCIALIZED: '} : (<>
i (ey «%3e
Hi ~ -
H ge
— oy
Laon if - os

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

DIO SOMEONE
MENTION BEETHOVEN
SWEAT-SHIRTS 7

(aa

  
 

  

 

 

U.S. Hopes For

(Continued from page 2)

hope for that she will be strongly
anti-Communist. At best we can hope
to preserve a non-Communist Ja-
pan. All of Asia must be within our
new vision to insure no one’s com-
mittment over the Communists. Aid for
“defense support” to achieve military
objectives by giving economic benefits
| to support the regional military estab-
| lishment should not be today’s priority
| thinking. Technical aid in the country
| itself, with the extension of educa-
| tional facilities would do much more
| to promote political stability. A mar-
| ket for rubber, tin, copra and other
| traditional products of the underde-
| veloped East is also necessary.

Once a country acquires the frame
of mind embraced in “rising expecta-
tions” they want to move fast and
with the best system achieve their goal.
We cannot maintain our defensive out-

 

' will be in our favor with such an

Victory In Japanese Election

treaty by voting for Ikeda, and it, Ikeda wins. The glow of prosperity
will thereby continue another 10 years.| can carry much along with it for the
China, who thinks in terms of cen-| present time. Genuine misgivings about
turies, not decades, is willing to wait | the security treaty will still exist; so
this short time. The external factors | will the void of trade with Peking.
Our attitudes towards defense, and
agreement. However, for our relation- | aid and the development of Asia can-
ship to continue it must be because |
they also wish to do so. It must be
because they believe our policy to-
wards them and towards those poorer
countries in Asia is the most advan-
tageous policy.

an election board this year; they might
be in the near future, and _ that’s
where today’s thinking is decisive.

 

The forthcoming election will hardly . TEXACO °
be, as Roscoe Drummond put it, al : : ;
“repudiation of U.S. foes,” even if ° Super Service Station ¢

=

3 Lexington, Virginia °

Generals Seek 8th Win @ Corner Main and Nelson ¢
#

(Continued from page 3) ©0000000000000008060080080

not, in all probability, be tallied on!

\Leaf-Raker’s Concert
| Snubbed By Students

| (Continued from page 2)
Hall, at midnight, just after a Cippola
initiation) should feel ashamed of your-
selves. And the Leaf-raker Choir is a
dedicated group. As Mr. Vann says,
“J wouldn’t blame them a bit for giv-
ing up the idea of ever giving concerts
‘here and sing simply for their own
| enjoyment.” It would serve you right.
Amen

| spebobebebobobetopebebebdetetetetetetetebetots

| % oa
& R.L. Hess and Bro. =
¢ JEWELERS .
| Lexington, Virginia %
if HO 3-2833 ;

&

_%
Me erde fondo re ode fee nde ote rfe oe oe rere este toot ote

 

In crushi g Sewanee, 32-8, last week, @0CCOCCSCCESCOCHOOOCESESEE

the Generals won what McLaughlin
called “our lucky seventh win of the

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

®
*
°
look and hope to keep these coun-| year.” e FR
tries in our camp. Washington U. should be lucky :
Japan will undoubtedly sign the} number eight! °
on *
° pencil. Guaranteed to run out of
Wayland’s Drug Store THE DUTCHINN ij\s
: supply lasts).
Prescriptions, Russell Stover For Reservation Call e
Counties MRS. KATHERINE ADAMS ° Say fellows, we have a truck
Next to Rockbridge Bank HO 3-3433 $ ing also.
6
®
| $0080000000S SO OSCCSSES | OTT rrr rrr rr rrr rrr ry >
| &
'} NEW TOWN INN |} HICKMAN’S ESSO }/$
% 4q\@
i Short Orders—Lunches 5 South Main Street :
: &
Fe Catering to Students $/f HO 3-2024 j\s
* iP {lie
Peepteeeeedeteteteebeedeteteteteteee k AAAB ABBR ERR R denne DEED ti eoveccccsccccooceseoeeee

To every car owning student. A long lasting fine writing ball point

place FREE when you bring it back. (This offer good as long as our

low prices. RUSH over and get yours. Expert recapping and repair-

SPENCER GENERAL TIRE CO.

E. Nelson St. Extension

EE

ink if you use it, but we will re-

load of new tires at unbelievably

 

 

 

 

 

CALL BY NUMBER
and Save Time
LEXINGTON
TELEPHONE CoO.

+
%
Ca
+
%
%
J
%
%
$
We ofoodeofe ote ofe fe ofe oe ofe oleae ole ale ake afer oe ode ake fe ode fe

MO Ge Te te ere ene ode obo fe ole ole oe ole oe ole nde ode te ofe ole

OG oho ode fete ote fe ote ote ate te

 

 

TOLLEY’S PHARMACY

Prescriptions Filled
Immediately

PURCHASE DRUGS
HO 3-2211

 

 

*Dodge and Dodge Dart
and Lancer

America’s First Fine

 

 

ECONOMY CAR

 

Hamric and Sheridan
JEWELERS

Watch and Jewelry Repair
Hand Engraving and Class Rings

HO 3-2022

*

Rockbridge Motor Co.
INC,

Phone HObart 3-3146

 

 

 

and hard work.

 

Expert Motor Work
MAIN STREET

FOREIGN CARS AND STUDEBAKER LARKS
OUR SPECIALTY

Open 8:00 a.m.—8:00 p.m.
MOBIL STATION

 

 

Catering to the

 

 

THE COLLEGE INN

The Best Food in Town

American and Italian

and Towns People

OPEN SUNDAYS

Students, Faculty,

in a $10,000 ann

 

—)

 

 

 

 

With a B.S. in Business Administration from
the University of Nebraska, Jack knew he could
look in many directions. And he did. He talked
to 20 companies. And then in August, 1957,
joined Northwestern Bell, in Omaha, Nebraska.

His chance to show what he could do was
not long in coming. On his first assignment Jack
came up with answers that made it possible to
handle long distance calls made at night in the
Omaha area with less force and equipment than
was needed under the old system. This resulted

Next, Jack worked on a training and devel-

 

 

 

tance charges.

JACK SAVED HIS COMPANY *10,000
: ON HIS FIRST ASSIGNMENT

While Jack Trabert was in college he had
some definite career ideas. He knew what he
wanted—a job with a payoff for good judgment

opment program for “mark sensing’—a new
method for mechanized processing of long dis-

Today, Jack has an important role in plan-

distance services.

right from the start.”

ual saving. want to visit your Placement

and additional information.

“Our number one aim is to have in all
management jobs the most vital, intel-
ligent, positive and imaginative men

we can possibly find.” on

FREDERICK R. KAPPEL, President
American Telephone & Telegraph Co.

ning and developing telephone facilities to keep
pace with Omaha’s ever-increasing need for long

Jack puts it this way—“If a guy can keep
his average up, there are places to go in this
outfit. A man doesn’t have to wait around for
opportunity to knock—he has all he can handle

If you want a job in which you’re given a chance
to show your stuff, and held strictly accountable for
your decisions, right from the start—then you'll

Office for literature

   

BELL TELEPHONE COMPANIES

 
 

 

TUESDAY
Edition

Che Ring-tum Phi

Washington and Lee Semi-Weekly Newspaper

TUESDAY
Edition

 

Volume LXI

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA, NOVEMBER 22, 1960

Number 20

 

WAL Has First Vasstoatee Season In 46 Years

 

Coaches Corner

 

Coach Mac Praises Effort; | ¢
Thanks Everyone Involved

We were happy and we didn’t care
who knew it. As players, coaches and

well-wishers, we were all a bunch of
kids.

After each game this year as win
followed win, there was cause for jubi-
lation. However, there was always the
sobering thought that next week our
opponent was plotting to break our
string. Now we had 8 wins, no losses,
one tie and an undefeated season. No
one could take it away from us. Like
I said... We were happy.

The victory over Washington
University was not easy. Their line
was big and strong. The Bears had
a strong ground game and _ they
moved the ball nearly every time
they gained possession.

Our “blue” team found the going
very heavy and was not able to score
all afternoon. However, they contained
the Bears and helped set up the “red”
team’s scores. The “red” unit was very
sharp. Robin Wood moved his team
well, scoring one touchdown himself
and passing to Wallace Tiffany for an-
other. It was Joe Hess who got the
“first olive out of the bottle” on his

 

Coach McLaughlin

59 yard run. Joe also played a fine
defensive game. It was his spectacular
“clothesline” tackle that shook the ball
loose from the Washington quarter-
back and led to our final touchdown.

The Washington players and coaches
were high in their praise of “that 55.”
“We have not seen a better linebacker,”
was one comment.

While individuals must be men-
toned, touchdowns and victories be-
long to the team and the glory should
be shared by all members of the
squad.

It has been such a pleasure to coach |
th. s wonder ful crowd of boys this year

that I want to take this means a)
thanking you, the players. Your hard
work during the off season as well as
during the fall has pleased me tre-
mendously. The devotion of the squad
members for one another is no little
factor in your success. When our
admissions office selected you to be
; admitted to Washington and Lee, we
were insured of having intelligent
boys who could understand and carry
out our offense and defense. Use that
intelligence to keep your academic
: work up to the level you have main-
| tained during football season.

| In any success of the nature of our
football program here at Washington
and Lee, one attempts to supply a sim-
ple cause. To do this is a mistake.
There have been many factors contrib-
uting to the rise of football here. I
have only mentioned a few.

 

The general enthusiasm and co-
operation of the faculty, the admin-
istration, the student body, the stu-
dent press, and the alumni have been
wonderful and heartwarming.

One other factor that I want to
mention is the astuteness, faith, and
hard work of my assistants, Boyd Wil-
liams, Buck Leslie and also Charlie
Harrington who could not be around
to enjoy the fruits of his labors.

To all of you I want to say...

Thank You and God Bless You.

COACH MAC

Plane Trouble

 

 

‘Slows Generals

Over half of W&L’s football squad
| took the field against Washington U.
Saturday afternoon, completely worn-
, out after a long delay caused when

» | the cabin door of a chartered Piedmont
> | airliner literally fell off.

It happened like this.
En route to St. Louis for the game,
both chartered DC-3’s pulled in at

| Evansville, Indiana for a refueling

job.

Minutes before take-off, the door
on one of the planes lost it’s thick
cast-iron hinges, causing the door
to dangle outside the plane.

After an hour’s delay, mechanics
at the airfield declared the DC-3 un-
safe for flight, and grounded it, along
with nearly half of the Washington
and Lee team.

There was nothing to do except
‘radio the pilot of the lead plane and
, have him return to Evansville—a flight
‘of an hour and 15 minutes—after he
| had taken the other half of the squad
| into St. Louis.
| In all, the incident caused a delay
of over three hours.

 

 

Robin Wood on the move against Washington University.

 

 

Hobbs, Suttle, Dick, Elected
To Captain 1961 Football Squad
In Post-Game Locker Room Vote

Steve Suttle, Ned Hobs, and Barton
Dick, have been elected tri-captains
for W&L’s 1961 football squad. They
were elected to their new posts by
their teammates immediately after
W&L’s 28-0 victory over Washington
University last Saturday in St. Louis,
Missouri.

Head football coach Lee McLaugh-
lin made the following comment on
the annual locker-room election’s re-
sults: “I am very pleased with the:
team’s choice for next year’s captains,
and I feel certain that they have made
a wise decision. I am sure that these
three boys will furnish the excellent
leadership that is necessary to lead
W&L to another undefeated season.”
Coach McLaughlin also mentioned the
fact that the three boys represent the
different sections of the team, Suttle
with the backs, Hobbs with the ends,
and Dick with the interior linemen.
According to the coach, all three boys
are equally good on both offense and
defense, and all three will probably
be on next year’s Blue team.

Steve Suttle

Steve Suttle, a junior from Uvalde,
Texas, led the team at the quarter-
back slot this year. In his three years
at W&L, he has been very active in
athletics, lettering in football for two
years, as well as in freshman track
and JV lacrosse his sophomore year.
Last year Steve won the “Roughest
Player Award” of the W&L football
team. Suttle is also a member of the
Varsity Club. Steve takes an active
interest in the academic side of W&L

 

also. since he has posted a 2.25 overall
average for four and a half semesters.
In addition to this, Steve is the Sec-
retary of the Junior Class, is president
of Delta Tau Delta, and a member of
the Student Vestry of the R. E. Lee
Memorial Episcopal church.

Ned Hobbs

Ned Hobbs, a junior from New
Canaan, Con., bolstered the W&L line-
up this year at right end. Besides let-
tering in football for two years, Ned
has lettered in baseball for W&L for
two years, is the captain of the 1961
squad, and is also a member of the
Varsity Club. Hobbs made the Dean’s|
List his sophomore year and is a
member of the Assimilation Commit-
tee. He was president of his Delt
pledge class in 1958 and is a member
of the Student Vestry of the R. E. Lee
Memorial Episcopal Church.

Barton Dick

Barton Dick, a junior from Morris-
town, Tenn., helped the team on of-
fense and defense from his left guard
position. In his sophomore year Dick
received the Moomaw Blocking Award
for his hard, consistent blocking. He
is a pre-medical student and is a mem-
ber of Alpha Epsilon Delta, the pre-
medical honor fraternity. He made the
Dean’s List his freshman year and is
Assistant Treasurer of the Delts.

These three, Steve Suttle, Ned
Hobbs, and Barton Dick will succeed
this year’s tri-captains, who led the
Generals to an undefeated season:
Courtney Mauzy, SAE; Terry Fohs,
Delt; and Bob Funkhouser, KA.

 

Williams, Leslie Instrumental In Wins

 

Coaches Williams and Leslie take in practice knocks.

Editor’s note: We hear a lot about |
unsung heroes these days. Our |
choice goes to Coaches Boyd Wil-
liams and Buck Leslie who are in
no small part responsible for Wash-
ington and Lee’s football success this
year.

This season was the seventh for |
Boyd H. Williams at Washington and |
Lee. In 1954 he coached the jayvee |
team which played a four-game sche-
dule after the varsity team had been
disbanded because of a player short- |
age. He came to W&L when football
fortunes were at a low ebb and has
been an integral part of the now suc- |
cessful non-subsidized progrram. Al- ;
though Williams devotes much time |
and thought to football, coaching is!
only a part-time interest. He main-
tains a prosperous insurance business
in Lexington,

Williams is 38 and comes from
Spangler, Pennsylvania where he
played his high school football. He
played center for four years at
Syracuse. After graduation in °43
he entered the Air Force as a physi-
cal training instructor. In 1946 he
played with the Richmond Rebels
professional football team and work-

 

 

ed at Randolph-Macon College.

'the W&L coaching staff this year. A|

| had ten years of successful coaching
| experience behind him at nearby Na-

| football teams won 37 games, lost 14,

He played with the Philadelphia
Eagles in 1947,

 

E. Graham (Buck) Leslie joined |

graduate of Washington and Lee, he |

tural Bridge High School where his

and tied 3.

Leslie who is 35, is a native of
Rockbridge County and quarter-
backed Lexington in his high school
days. After serving with the Navy
in the Pacific during World War Il,
he played four years of varsity base-
ball at W&L. Strangely enough, he
passed up football participation be-
cause of an eye toward a possible
professional career in baseball.

Leslie’s team won the 1956 Group
II, District 5, championship. During
this period of success, Natural Bridge
posted a seventeen game winning

 

but returned to the!} on
| Rebels in 1948. Williams acted as line
| coach for VMI in ’49 and ’50 and served | novelist William Humphrey will re-
| in the same capacity at the University

| of Richmond in ’51 and ’52. |

Washington Of St. Louis
Falls To Generals, 28-0

Washington and Lee’s Generals closed out their first un-
beaten season in 46 years with a resounding 28-0 trouncing of
Washington University in St. Louis, Saturday.

Led by Terry Fohs, who made 26 tackles for the tough
W&L defense, and an array of offensive stars, the Generals
capitalized on six fumbles by the Bears to score twice in each

New Costumes
For Fancy Dress
Go On Sale Dec. 5

|

«half.

For Fohs, Little All-American can-
didate in his junior and last year for
i W&L, it was the third time this year

‘he has gotten at least 20 tackles. His

former season high was 23 against

| Johns Hopkins, the only team to put
‘a blot on W&L’s 8-0-1 record with a

tie. He had 20 against Hampden-

Costumes for the 1961 Fancy Dress | Sydney.

ball will be on sale Dec. 5, 6, 7, and 8.

W&L’s touchdowns came on long

They will be sold in the Student | runs and passes. They were scored on a

Union from 9 am. to 5 p.m.

This year’s costumes will represent
various Shakespearean characters.
The members of the figure will depict
characters from six Shakespearean
plays, and the rest of the costumes will
follow suit.

The costumes are coming from the
Hooker Howe Company in Haver-
hill, Massachusetts, through Oak
Hall distributors in Roanoke. This
will be the first time that W&L has
used this company, which normally
outfits professional productions.

There will be 50 new costumes made
for the members of the figure. In addi-
tion to this, there will be almost 200
outfits made especially for this ball.
The costumes will cost the normal
$18 per set for those people who
do not have Dance Plans. However,
those people with Dance Plans receive
the costumes for $16.

Students must be measured for
the following specifications: chest,
waist, height, weight, hat size and
length of outseam. In addition they
must provide the following measure-
ments of their dates: bust, waist,
hips, height, weight, hat size, dress
size, and length of skirt from waist
to ankle. It is important that these
measurements be correct in order
to ensure proper fitting.

The six plays that will be repre-
sented are: Julius Caesar, depicting
the Roman period; Anthony and Cleo-
patra—the Egyptian period; Merchant
of Venice—the Italian renaissance;
Henry IV—the French renaissance;
King Lear—the medieval period; and,
Hamlet—to bring in the Scandinavian
theme.

The first day for costume sales will
be be Monday, Dec. 5.

Ciardi To Open
Lecture Series

Poet-critic John Ciardi will begin
a series of Glasgow-sponsored lectures
on Monday, Nov. 28, at 8:15 p.m. in
duPont Auditorium.

Ciardi,
Rutgers University and a frequent
contributor to the Saturday Review
of Literature, will speak on “The
Last Time I Saw Wordsworth.”

On Tuesday, he’ll return to duPont
at the same hour, this time to lecture
“The Next Time I see Confusion.”
On Wednesday, Ciardi will leave, but

place him.

Humphrey, author of Home from
the Hill, will make two appearances in
duPont Auditorium, each at 8:15 p.m.
His Thursday night lecture will be
entitled, “Figures in a Landscape.” On
Friday his theme will be “Operatic.”

Five days later, on Wednesday,
Dee. 7, television-screen writer Merle
M'ller will arrive in Lexington. Miller,
who adapted The Rains of Ranchipur,
and Kings Go Forth, for the screen, is
scheduled for two appearances.

Wednesday night, he will be in
duPont Auditorium for a lecture on
“The Night Nobody Looked.” The
following evening, he'll be back in
duPont, speaking on “Bach on the
Musical Saw.”

Glasgow Committee Chairman A.
Ross Borden said yesterday that admis-
sion to duPont Auditorium appear-
ances during the series will be by ticket
only.

The appearance of these writers on

a professor of English at,

 

streak, His baseball teams fared even| campus is provided by the Glasgow |

better, with a 65-20 overall record, |
and a perfect season,

year in 1956.

championship .

Endowment Fund, established in 1955

at W&L.

to promote the art of expression by |
|}pen and tongue,”

|

59-yard run by Joe Hess, a 29-yard
run by Charlie Gummey, a 13-yard
keeper run by quarterback Robin
Wood, and a 38-yard pass from Wood
to halfback Wallace Tiffany.

W&L’s offense, which compiled 286
yards on the ground, was led by
the running of Hess, Gummey and
Tommy Keesee. Hess led with a total
of 93 yards. Gummey added 58 and
Keesee compiled 48.

Fohs and company gave up only
107 rushing yards, mostly in the mid-
dle of the field. The Bear’s Terry Mac-
key, a workhorse all day, got most of
it, a total of 87 yards.

W&L scored its first touchdown with
41/2 minutes left in the first quarter on
Hess’s fine 59-yard run. The senior
fullback from Deerfield, Ill., cut off
right tackle to the sidelines and had
almost a clear field to the goal.

Washington’s Jay Hopkins caught
him from behind on the five, but
Hess fell across the goal for the
score. Wood tried right end for the
¢4wo points, but was thrown back
for a three yard loss. It was 6-0
with 4:36 left in the first quarter.

But W&L couldn’t score again until
there were only 58 seconds remaining
in the first half.

Gummey carried on four of the five
plays it took to score after W&L re-
covered a Bear fumble. His run around
left end carried the last 29 yards for
the score. Gummey also ran the extra-
points, this time around right end, and
W&L took a 14-0 lead at halftime.

The Generals played “cough up the
ball” in the third quarter as the
Bears threatened twice. The Gen-
eral defense, led by the ever-present
Fohs, stopped WU once on _ the
Generals’ 23, and another lost Bear
bobble stopped the second drive
on the W&L 36.

After recovering a third fumble, the
Generals quickly gave the ball back
via a fumble of their own on the
Bear’s 47. Then Hess made an out-
standing defensive play, followed it up
with a fine offensive play, and the
Generals got their third score.

Hess broke through to hit Bear
passer Don McGuire from the blind
side. He almost took McGuires head
off and caused him to lose the ball with
Dan Blain recovering on the WU 31.

Hess then side-stepped his way for
18 yards and Wood ran it over on
the next play. Jim Hickey ran the
extra points to make the score 22-0
with 4:43 left in the game.

Then W&L’s depth definitely began
to pay off as the tough General line
broke through to make the Bear’s of-
fense run backwards and give up the
ball on the WU 42.

One play later, Wood flipped a per-
fect 38-yard pass to Tiffany for the
Generals’ fourth score. His pass to
Windy Weed for extra points was no
good and it was 28-0 with 2:21 remain-
ing.

Coach Lee McLaughlin then ran in
the seniors to finish out the game.

YARDSTICK
W&L Washington
First Downs ................ 12 10
Yards Rushing .......... . & 107
Yards Passing ............. 38 10
OE cic 1-5 3-7
Passes intercepted by 0 0
UE ees 4-403 5-39.4
Fumbles lost ................ 3 6
Yards penalized 15 15

* * *

In 1914, the Generals’ other unde-
feated season, Morris-Harvey was
tromped by W&L by a score of 103-
0. Quite a shutout!
Page 2

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

Che Ring-tum Phi

Tuesday Edition
Member of Virginia Intercollegiate Press Association

Undefeated Season Gives Pride

We would like to add our word of praise and congratulations
to the Washington and Lee coaching staff and football team
for giving the school its first undefeated season in almost half
a century. They have given something of which Washington
and Lee and all those who are in any way connected may be
exceedingly proud.

 

For several years now we have had to hang our heads and
shuffle our feet uneasily whenever the record of the Washington
and Lee football team has been mentioned. We have suffered
abuse at the hands of many of our friends who attend the neigh-
boring small colleges and even the State University across the
hill. It gave us a feeling of great satisfaction to swagger across
the grounds of these neighboring schools on last Saturday
night, and gloat, along with the rest of our W&L compatriots,
over the second undefeated season in Washington and Lee’s
history.

The boys and the coaches of our 1960 football team have
already become an integral part of Washington and Lee’s tradi-
tions. It has been proposed that maybe the name of the school
should be expanded to read ‘“‘Washington and Lee McLaughlin
University.”” Like the rest of our traditions, our football team
made us proud of our institution.

The boys, as well as the coaches on this year’s team, came to
Washington and Lee when the fortunes of the new “‘amateur”’
program were at their lowest ebb. The University was the laugh-
ing stock of the region. Now after three or four years of patient
watching, working, praying, and waiting, as well as a little suf-
fering on the part of the coaches, the players, and a few diehard
supporters (parents and coaches wives for the most part) , some
of those who came to scoff have returned to praise.

The boys who wear the Blue and White have begun to make
a name for themselves. There has been more than one mention
of the “big, quiet man” that has done so much for Washington
and Lee. There has been less mention of, but no less admiration
for, another big and maybe not so quiet man who has ridden
out the storm and done so much for Washington and Lee’s foot-
ball team at the position of end coach. Nothing more can or
need be said of Coach Charlie Harrington than that he, more
than anybody else, embodied the spirit of amateur football at
Washington and Lee. To the new member of our coaching staff,
we say thanks. We don’t see how they could have done it with-
out you.

These undefeated seasons are the kind of things that most
folks dream about at the end of the season when they begin
to think about next year. It hasn’t been many years since the
folks around here were worrying about snapping their latest
losing streak. Now the shoe is on the other foot, and the worry
about next year is a little more pleasant, but nevertheless it’s
still a worry.

It’s been said that success breeds success, and if that is the
case we have every reason to be optimistic. Just look at next
year’s tri-captains. The team couldn’t have made a better choice.
Check out a few of the freshman prospects; things look pretty
bright there too.

Unfortunately, there is one sour strain in our song of hap-
piness. Washington and Lee is losing some good football players
to graduation and to its three-year cooperative engineering plan.

Things still look pretty good though. Just the other day,
somebody asked when W&L had started giving football scholar-
ships again. That must be some sort of compliment. It shows
that people are thinking about us.

Congratulations again.

Congratulations To The Coach

Our thanks and congratulations to Coach Lee McLaughlin
for bringing us out of the woods. If all the credit had to go to
one man we feel that he would have to take the bows. Encore!

Come Back!

We hate to belabor the point, but its holiday time again
and the police and the drunks are back on the road. If you
don’t worry about your life, think of your pocket book. Speed-
ing can be expensive. Besides, we would like to see everybody
back for the post-Thanksgiving, pre-Christmas round of quizzes.

 

 

PEANUTS

YOU THINK
GIVING GIRLS
PRESENTS WILL

BE COMMERCIALIZING

BEETHOVENS BIRTHDAY?

WELL, HOW LONG DO 4OU THINK
IT CAN BE KEPT FROM BEING
ICOMMERGALIZED? DON'T BE NAIVE!

 

 

 

 

  

 

 

DO YOU THINK IT CAN BE KEPT
NON-COMMERCIAL FOREVER 7!
GOOD GRIEF! SOMETIMES YOUR
NAIVETINESS AMAZES ME:

 
  
 

sn

  

“ma “arenes aemoey pamun he ong: -mto>|

posses yi uy

 

 

 

 

 

By HARVEY ALLEN

If the people going to New York
from this area and the various celeb-
rities now in the nation’s largest city
have anything to say about it, this
year’s Thanksgiving vacation should
turn out to be the usual four day
bash.

Of primary interest to all are the
supper clubs and the places where one
can catch some good sounds. Touch-
ing on some of the more familiar
names and locations we find Jonah
Jones holding forth, as usual, at the
Embers. If this year’s anything like
the past few, better check reservations
here.

Birdland, though prone to higher-
than-minimums, presents a good line-
up, maybe even good enough to war-
rant fighting the large crowds and
high prices. Buddy Rich and his group
will move in there from the Metropole
shortly before we arrive and be joined
by Maynard Ferguson, formerly with
Stan Kenton, as arranger and general
trumpet player.

Some time during the four days
you'll want to go by Eddie Condon’s,
an old standby sort of place, currently
featuring one of its alums, Peanuts
Hucko. It’s not dazzling but serves as
a good filler at reasonable prices for
all.

Buddy Rich’s departure from the
Metropole brings in new names and
continues the choice offering there.

 

Sol Yaged and Lionel Hampton will

carry the cause at the location, alter-
nating days and shows.

Sonny Stitt and Miles Davis offer
more of the far out sounds at the
Village Vanguard, while Marian Mc-
Partland will keep things quietly mov-
ing at the Hickory House.

If you’re making the more expensive
spots like Sardi’s and 21, check by
the Copa on comedian Joey Bishop and
the Four Lads. While we’re on singers,
it'll bear mentioning that Johnny Ray
will be appearing at Basin Street East,
along with Quincy Jones, who is some-
what less well known.

In midtown Manhattan there’s a
place that’s just been open a little
over a year, called The Roundtable.
The first W&L crowd went there last
Thanksgiving and they all gave the
place rave notices. Tyree Glenn can
generally be counted on to be around
and it’s not unusual to see Steve Allen
drop by and sit in for a few choruses.
Glenn will be around with added at-
traction Adam Wade and the man with
the exotic sounds from “the islands,”
Martin Denny.

A frequently overlooked or unknown
spot to people around here is Upstairs
at the Downstairs, which has featured
the reviews of Julius Monk for some
time now. His latest is “a formal
affair dedicated to rattling the skele-

| The latter may be difficult to get to

 

tons in the closets of Park Avenue,
Broadway, Washington, and Fort |
Lauderdale.”

Finally, on the music and supper |

club scene there’s the Jazz Gallery,
currently hosting Thelonius Monk.
Here again is one for the more devoted
of the strictly jazz group.

Along the lines of general comments
and long-established spots, dancable
sounds will pervade the Roosevelt Grill
to the tune of Warren Covington and
his Tommy Dorsey Orchestra.

The Hotel Lexington will doubtless
continue its general polynesian theme
in its Hawaiian Room, if the prices at
the Roundtable are too much or you
want more of the Martin Denny-type
thing.

Carnegie Hall will feature two
evenings of entertainment of more than
passing interest. Iconoclast Mort Sahl
appears Friday night, following the
Kingston Trio’s Wednesday night spot.

or impossible, depending on your ar-
rival time plans for said day.

For a good view, good drinks, and
good quiet music, you'll need to visit
the Rainbow Room in the RCA build-
ing, if you haven't already. It’s sort
of a cinerama-globeramic-sized cock-
tail lounge, large enough to float
multi cocktail olives, simultaneously. A
trio is usually the musical fare here.

As for Broadway shows, most of the
familiar long runs are still on. Things
like “Take Me Along,” “Bye Bye
Birdie,” “Fiorello!” “Gypsy,” “The

Music Man,” and “The Sound of Mu- |

sic.”

The Big City Highlights Good Shows

For Coming Weekend Entertainment

for these you might as well forget
about them. Unless of course you don’t
care how much you pay for the tickets,
over and above the list price. The best
chances would probably be “The Mu-
sic Man” and “Gypsy,” since they have
both long since lost their original lead-
ing stars.

In the realm of dramas and plays,
there are several that look good and
have gotten good reviews, including
Tennessee Williams’ new one, “Period
of Adjustment.”

Other good shows include “The Mir-
acle Worker,” the life of Helen Keller,
“The Tenth Man,” “A Therber Carni-
val,” which stars Therber himself,
“Becket,” with Anthony Quinn and
Sir Laurence Oliver. Jack Lemmon’s
in a new one called “Face of a Hero,”
while the well publicized play by
Gore Vidol, “The Best Man,” stars
Melvin Douglas and Frank Lovejoy,
and enjoys good house nightly.

For a final touch, with football fans
primarily in mind, there’s action on
Thanksgiving Day at the Polo Grounds.
The Dallas Texans meet the New York
Titans there at 11 in the morning.

Generally, that’s about the best of
the New York scene, exclusive of
special exhibitions, art galleries, and
main points of tourist interest.

For details of these and other pos-
sible activities, check the current issue
of the New Yorker, to which we are
indebted for most of our information.

 

If you don’t already have tickets

 

 

. ssdiene Sacer ¢ 3 : 4
The 1960-61 SAZERACS are: standing, left to right, Eric Wilson, Joe Tartt, Billy Head, Dave Peters, Henry Harrell,
Bob Van Rensselaer and Hardie Karrh. Kneeling are: Billy Martin, Wally Cox, Huntley Biggs, and Dave Knight.

 

By HUGO HOOGENBOOM

With Autumn past the half-way
mark and gridiron schedules nearly
completed, its particularly fitting to
look back on some of the grander mo-
ments the game afforded us this season.
Big and little college ball have re-
ceived their share of publicity, as
have high school (and, in the Roanoke
papers, sand lot) and junior high
school ball. Various coaches, players
and teams will be selected to this or
that all-something or named to this
or that particular honor, and the pig-
skin season will become just another
memory to be mulled over in front of a
pleasant winter fireplace.

And yet true connoisseurs of the art
of carrying leather up and down the
greensward will know that something
is lacking, that credit was not given
where credit was due. That is to the
roughest fastest, trickiest band of
football in this part of the Common-
wealth, the football played in the
little dell across the street from the
University Cleaners. The boys who do
or die down there don’t do it for
money or for glory, but for the love
of the game, as any of the fans who
watch can testify. For those of you who
haven’t seen this Lexington version of
classic Americana, permit me to de-
scribe a typical afternoon’s game.

Che Bing-tum Phi

Tuesday Edition

The Ring-tum Phi is published Tues-
day and Friday during the college year.
It is printed by the Journalism Labor-
atory Press, Washington and Lee Uni-
versity. The mailing address is Box
899, Lexington, Va.

Entered as second class matter Sep-
tember 20, 1946 at the Post Office, Lex-
ington, Va., under the act of March
3, 1878.

National Advertising Representative:
The National Advertisers Service, Inc.,
420 Madison Ave., New York, N.Y.

Wor. .....Rosewell Page, III

Business Manager..............Huntley Biggs
Editorial Board
Bill Roberts

 

 

Managing Editor....................

Photography Editor................. Bill Young

The casual passerby on his way
to the Paramount will probably
notice, just after three o’clock, a few
clean-limbed young lads about the
dell throwing the football and other-
wise working off their youthful ex-
ubance after a confining day at
school. Gradually, almost impercept-
ibly, the number of boys frolicking
like young goats increases, and soon,
in the irrepressible competitive spirit
of untrammelled youth, sides are
chosen and a game begins.

At the same time, and as imprecept-
ibly, a crowd begins to gather around
the hedge. At its peak it will consist
of a few dyspeptic students, a couple
of idle cab drivers, and some young
ladies up to the age of fourteen, but
looking considerably more nubile.

In common with true sportsmen
everywhere, the crowd is basically
uninterested in the score. “It’s not
whether you win or lose, but how
you played the game.” And they sure

able crowd to its feet. A bone-jarring

placed elbow... these are what count.
And if the girls, in their excitement, oc-
casionally let fly an expeletive not
usually considered lady-like, why, who
can help but forgive them their mo-
mentary indiscretion. Evil to him who
evil thinks, I always say.

After a while, players of a duskier
hue show up, and begin “having a
catch” on the periphery of the regu-
lar game. This (although it is a regu-
lar occurrence) causes the other
players to huddle and discuss the
new situation. When enough players
of the other shade appear, the gaunt-
let, as it were, is cast down, and an
interracial game begins. Both sides
play determinedly, for honor is at
stake. And the spectators are witness

 

to a world struggle in microcosm.

Recently, however, these struggles

Mudlot Football Is Clash For Honor

have changed in character, for the
teams are mixed. Sociologists would
make much of that although it’s only
a game, if it wern’t for the fact that
they much preferred to travel about in
the South Seas, Pago-Pago and so
forth,

But as they say, it’s not who won,
but how the game was played, and
if you don’t play well enough to win,
we sportswriters just haven’t much
time for you.

Webster Unabridged

 

 

tackle, a cleverly executed clip, a well- |

pretty attractive piece of architecture.

But, as Dick Hoover pointed out last
| Tuesday, the illusion tends to vanish
play a rough game. A good play, not| when you catch sight of the chapel’s
a score, is what brings this knowledge- interior. And after 15 minutes on those

| benches, disenchantment sets in quick-
ly.

I'm happy to report (unofficially,
to be sure) that the long-overdue re-
modeling of the chapel may not be
far off.

plans for a complete overhauling, from

the staggering cost of this project, a

being considered by this group.

plan, would be fireproofed and struc-
turally reinforced. Every effort would
be made, however, to preserve the
present appearance.

The proposed modifications would
include more comfortable benches,
; @ new floor, a modern lighting sys-
tem and a reshuffling of the museum.

 

The University has drafted explicit
the belfry to the basement. Because of

private group has been asked to give
financial assistance. Plans are now

The whole building, according to this

Singing Group Goes North;
Sazeracs To Entertain
At Massachusetts Cotillion

The Washington and Lee Sazeracs
travel to Worcester, Mass., this week-
end to sing at the Worcester Cotillion
and a dinner party to precede it. The
Cotillion is one of the outstanding
debutante events in the area.

This is the first time the Sazeracs
have accepted an engagement over
the Thanksgiving Holidays. In the past,
the group has always confined its va-
cation activities to their trip to Florida
in the Spring. For the past four seasons,
the Sazeracs have spent the Spring
Holiday at the Colonnades Hotel in
Palm Beach Shores. They have been
invited to return again this year.

Founded in 1955 and named after
the famous bar and patented drink
in the Hotel Roosevelt in New Or-
leans, the Sazeracs have charmed
audiences of all ages since then.

The 1960-61 Sazeracs are: Huntley
Biggs, President and Director, Billy
Martin, Business Manager and Treas-
urer, Dave Knight, Bill Heald, Dave
Peters, Henry Harrell, Wally Cox,
Hardie Karrh, Bob Van Rennsalaer,
and freshmen Eric Wilson and Jo
Tartt.

_ Adding New Songs

The Sazeracs are currently adding
many new songs to their repetoire
and abandoning some of the ones that
they feel have been with the group too
long. President Huntley Biggs says
that the group feels that the only way
they can give consistently fresh per-
formances is to regularly add fresh
material.

To Cut Record
Further plans for this year include
the cutting of a 12” record in February
and the possible use of guitars, bongo
drums and other instruments in some
number in the repetoire.

 

Private Group Is Considering

Plans To Remodel Lee Chapel

From the outside, Lee Chapel is a

While all this is going on, I hope that
the University might find some more
appropriate place to hang those mis-
cellaneous portraits. The front wall
should be devoted entirely to Lee and
Washington.

Progress, being leisurely around
here, is doubly welcome when it ar-
rives. The last major renovation of the
chapel was done in 1883, when the
back portion was extended and the
recumbent statue of Lee was placed.

Around 1925, the museum area was
remodeled.

Once, creeping through the organ
loft, I came across various notes on
the wall that had been written by
a before the turn of the cen-
ury.

No one discussed it much, but the
balconies were condemned last spring
as unsafe for use,

We hope the remodeling plans will
come to fruition. It is only fitting that
this chapel, the resting-place of a
great family and the meeting-place for
a potentially great University, should
be a permanent and attractive adjunct
to our campus.

 

 
 

THE RING-TUM PHI

Page 3

 

Sports Editorial

A Backward Look At A P

By AL CURRAN

For the first time in forty-six sea-
sons Washington and Lee’s fighting
Five-Star Generals have gone through
their football schedule undefeated. In
four short years the W&L squad has
come from the depths of football medi-
ocrity into the select ranks of the un-
beaten.

The 1960 team has shown all of the
talents which makes a football team
great, a fine offense, a stubborn de-
fense, fine coaching and most of all,
the will to work and win. Rolling up
a total of 196 points in nine games,
the Generals showed wide versatility
in the scoring department. Bob Funk-
houser and Charlie Gummey shared
team scoring honors with 28 points
apiece. Both Funkhouser and Gum-
mey played out of the left halfback
position with Gummey moving up to
the “blue”
Funkhouser was sidelined after the
Hopkins game with a kidney ailment.
Doug Martin, Jim Hickey, Steve Sut-
tle and Ned Hobbs were all close to
the leaders, each scoring 18 points or
better. Fullback Martin led the team
in total rushing with a net season’s
gain of 619 yards.

Fine quarterbacking by juniors
Steve Suttle and Robin Wood kept
the General offense clicking through-
out the season. Suttle, always an
extremely dangerous runner, de-
veloped into an effective and reliable
passer to fill the gap left by Jack
Groner, W&L’s passing ace of 1959
and all-time General great. Wood
as signal-caller of the “red” unit
sparked his team on numerous
touchdown drives. Although lighter
than Suttle, he has demonstrated
good running ability, and as a left
handed passer he has shown great
potential.

The key to the Generals’ offensive
power centered around the strong line
headed by senior tri-captain Court-
ney Mauzy at center. Guards Tommy
Goodwin, George Cruger, Barton
Dick and Bill Willes provided the
interior blocking which enabled the
General ground game to function so
effectively through the middle. It was
Goodwin who landed the key block
that broke Tommy Keesee loose for

unit when tri-captain |

his spectacular 64-yard scoring run
in the Carnegie game.

Tackles Mal Brownlee and Bill
Wheeler of the “blue” unit along with |
Dave Munroe, Bob Payne, Graham
Fulton, and Tom Budd of the “red” |
and “gold” provided the necessary |

 

power to spring the fast General :

halfbacks over the opponent’s defens-
es. Jim Russ, playing right halfback, |
carried the ball only occasionally, but
as a fine blocker, he led General ball-

deserves particular praise for their
outstanding performance in every |

 

game of the season. Opposing teams |‘

averaged a scant 5.1 points per
game against the Generals. No team
scored more than once against W&L
while Carnegie Tech and Washing- |
ton were held scoreless, |

 

Undisputed leader of the defensive |
unit throughout his three seasons on
the team has been W&L’s Little All- |
American candidate, Terry Fohs.|
Weighing only 145 pounds and playing

defensive center, Fohs is truly ali

 

SEASON’S RECORD

Wa&LL........ ae Oe iia 6
Wicked WOOD oiiiscance. 6
W&L........ 38 Franklin & Marshall....8
WA&L........26 Randolph-Macon. .......... 3
WL.......5:: 8 Johns-Hopkins ............... 8
W&LL........ 14 Hampden-Sydney ........ 7
WE sss: 6 Carnegie Tech .............. 0
W&LL......... Be OWED iosssseseessccsncics 8
Wee CORR ona 0

 

collegiate football first. Described by
opponents as “too small to block; too
fast to fall on; impossible to hurt and
a ferocious ankle-high tackler,” Fohs
has been outstanding in every game.
In Saturday’s game against Washing-
ton, Fohs was credited with 26 tackles,
a season’s record. In the Hopkins game
Fohs made 23 tackles and led the
Generals defense in stopping repeated
Hopkins scoring threats. It was the
spirited defense which saved the day
for the Generals and allowed the team
to salvage an 8-8 tie with the power-
ful Blue Jays, who were also unde-
feated at that time. Aside from his

 

great tackling ability, Fohs also led | practice, and many of those that did

Ce
| ¢

carriers on many long gaines. | §
The Generals’ 1960 defensive unit |

SS

E

 

a ae ee ee ee

é i

the team in pass interceptions with
four. Fohs timely pass interceptions in
the waning moments of the Hampden-
Sydney game snuffed out the last |
Tiger hopes for an upset.

However, Fohs has not been the only
General defensive star. Linemen Bar-
ton Dick, Tommy Goodwin, Tom
Budd, Bill Wheeler and Ned Hobbs
have been particularly hard on the op-
position. Backs Joe Hess, Wayne
Bradshaw and Richard Mosby have |
been stalwarts in the defensive sec- |
ondary. Hess has turned in many fine
performances throughout the season
and was especially effective in last
Saturday’s victory.

Certainly no one would question
the fact that team depth has been
one of the main assets of the 1960
team. In 1957, when Coach Lee Mc-
Laughlin took over as head coach, he
had 19 men turn out for fall football

 

come out had little or no varsity ex-
perience. The 1957 season turned out
to be the most dismal year in W&L
football history because the Generals

| lost eight games without a win. A

measure of the great progress Coach
McLaughlin has made was evidenced
at the start of the 1960 season when
28 lettermen, a handful of players
with limited varsity experience and
about 15 promising sophomores were
our for the team.

Throughout the season McLaughlin
used his depth resource skillfully and
with good results. The Generals were
able to wear down the opposition by
frequent substituting of playing units.
The substituting also developed many
of the less experienced men and
kept enthusiasm up among all players.
The great advantage of depth was felt
when injuries began to pile up. When

|halfbacks Funkhouser and Skipper

Smith were injured for the remainder

 

e e
«Dodge and Dodge Darts

eee rte seed endef e see reste ofertas eae oe eae ne alee nde oe rhe oe oe oe ae ate oe nee ene rhe oleae fe odode

Shirt Service as You Like it

 

BOtSSStS0900490000000000

CALL BY NUMBER
and Save Time

 

 

 

     
  
  
 
 
  
 
 

 
  

oe negara
|
i |
|
3
|

f" by greats Gil Bocetti
' Michaels, established an 8-2 record

 

a ot cgay ences

of the season after the Hopkins game,
Jim Hickey, who had recovered from
an early season leg ailment, returned
to the line-up for full-time duty.
Sophomore halfback Charlie Gummey
and Junior Dave Tharp moved up to
fill the gap in convincing style. Sopho-
more ends Lanny Butler and Phil Mc-

 

 

 

Wayland’s Drug Store

Prescriptions, Russell Stover
Candies

Next to Rockbridge Bank

 

 

 

 

 

 

ve Grid Team

Caleb moved up from the secondary
units to active service early in the
season after Rosie Page sustained a leg
fracture in the Centre game. Quarter-
back Chuck Lane, center Jerry Hyatt
and guard Mickey Walker were all
used extensively and did fine jobs
w.th the “gold” unit,

No review could be complete with-
out some words of praise for Coach
Lee McLaughlin, assistant coaches
Boyd Williams and Buck Leslie and

|| trainer Norris Eastman. Operating un-

der the unsubsidized program which
he inherited upon his arrival at W&L
in 1957, Coach McLaughlin with the
aid of his assistants developed an un-

} defeated football team in four seasons.

A decade ago W&L had its most
celebrated subsidized team which, led

and Walt

and brought the Southern Conference
championship to W&L. The team lost

: only to national champion Tennessee,

27-21, and to Virginia, 26-21. The
1959 team played in the Gator Bowl
and was defeated by the University of
Wyoming, 21-7. After 1950 the team de-
teriorated rapidly. The University
was forced to cancel the 1954 schedule
because of a lack of players. It was

“| also in 1954 that the W&L policy of

non-subsidization was adopted. The
poor records of the teams of the fifties
tipped W&L’s all-time won-lost rec-
ord to the “loss” column for the first
time in W&L history. Although the
record now stands at 229 wins, 243
losses, 3) ties (since 1890), it now ap-
pears that it won’t be too long before
the Generals show a victory “profit” on
the ledger.

eee ete orto olee ode rhe sterte ote ofeferdeoeogentesteeogere
+

R. L. Hess and Bro.
JEWELERS
Lexington, Virginia
HO 3-2833
ebebeoteobebeeteopefeogeteotterteoteteteteoeteopeere

hee

 

FOREIGN CARS AND

Expert Motor Work

 

Open a convenient student Checking account
TODAY

at

Rockbridge National Bank

Member Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation

 

OUR SPECIALTY

MAIN STREET MOBIL STATION

STUDEBAKER LARKS

Open 8:00 a.m.—8:00 p.m.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

TETLOW
TV Service

221 S. Main HO 3.2841

 

 

 

 

Spencer General
Tire

E. Nelson Street Extension

BEST IN TIRES
GENERAL

Best in Recapping

Kroft Tread

Compact Tires

 

COOHSSOHOLOOHHOOHOOSHOOHOSOOSOSSHO HOO SSHDOOSOEEECS
FOR ROOM RESERVATIONS—CALL HO 3-2151 ®

LEXINGTON MOTEL

Large Rooms—U. S.
Free TV—Phones—Continental Breakfast

Only Motel in corporate limits of Lexington

*
e
*
11 By-Pass South .
°
+
*
*

 

 

ARAMOUNT

 

 

A

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   
   
 

   

 
 
 

\ p Se Ta
HZ LA gr
HAMBuRcers| A”
—
” Ye co
‘iF
ALO AiR)

cametiateeeiall

  

i

ot 3 Be S: SI -)) r 3
WS ial Ss
AY) =i SESS

7 = Ty

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

o
pe

| ee

6 eee

G—-— +

 

 

 

 
   

 

  

LARGE Glass i
4,
Tue S.NGTS

 

 

 
 
  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

%
%
: $
° and Lancer s LEXINGTON :
° iiciasls Gees She ° Quality Cleaning and Pressing TELEPHONE CO.
* e %
* ECONOMY CAR 2 UNIVERSITY CLEANERS Beebetededeoteteteteteteteseteteteoetetedeteteoede
e e
° * 6 HO 3-3622
: > TOLLEY’S PHARMACY
° — — Co. ¢ * Prescriptions Filled
e Ps s “ Immediately
© Phone HObart 3-346 Your Campus Neighbors PURCHASE DRUGS
Seer eccccccccccccccocees | piiiinhinnndnhbinbidiiehteiee titi tteeetetted oe
(= »
Traditional For those extra pieces
WEL BLAZER THE COLLEGE INN “—_—
ae The Best Food in Town FURNITURE
The American and Italian = jv oe
COLLEGE wae = Catering to the Students, Faculty, before buying
and Towns People Fy
Student Charge Accounts OPEN SUNDAYS
Welcomed ) VARNER AND POLE
\

 

 

 

eeewveevweveeenreenrteeeeeenepeeenspmenereeneeneeeeee @ @

 

 

eRe

 

 

ROUTE 60 EAST

lar style in

Across from the White Top Resturant
HO 3-4214

Wash, Grease, Lube, Road Service

Charge Accounts Welcome

“oxford accent’’...
prints of distinction
The sport shirt that gives you that
rugged masculine appeal...
printed in neat figures in uniquely

attractive colorings. Well-cut col-

lines with box pleated back. In tra-
ditionally favored oxford cloth.

cum laude collection

-ARROW=

ued ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee eo ee

DIXON’S

ESSO SERVICE CENTER

IN LEXINGTON

classic button-down

$5.00

by
Page 4

Footballers Already Look Forward To Next Season

By BILL ROBERTS

Washington and Lee finished its first
undefeated football season Saturday.
For eight months, the players and
coaches will be released from the
constant tension which prevails
through a season when you have to
win every game.

But the odds are heavy that most of
them are already thinking about next
season. And they will have to in
order to produce another record like
this year’s.

If there is one thing about the
schedule W&L plays that is certain, it
is that you can’t let up. Any team on
our schedule could have beaten us
this year. Next year’s team will run
up against even tougher opposition
with the addition of Davidson and
Emory and Henry on the slate. Each
one is tougher than anyone we played
this year.

Serious recruiting efforts began
last night when Coach McLaughlin
and a few of his prize backs at-
tended the E. C. Glass High School
football banquet in Lynchburg.
Coach McLaughlin will spend a lot
of time on the road this winter, try-
ing to round up the horses to keep

 

 

 

OPS ES Medal

STATE

LEXINGTON, VA.
|_WOBART 3-3424 |

 

 

WED. through SAT.
Ff Eee ee ee ee =|

@ SURPRISE CAST!
: a SURPRISE STORY !

#

§

M PRIZE-PACKAGE COMEDY!
gc COLUMBIA PICTURES i
é

a

&

g a STANLEY DONEN prooucnon

  

what we hope will become a winning
tradition.

The players are enjoying their re-
lease from training rules and exper-
iencing the pleasant difficulty of de-
ciding what to do with their after-
noons right now.
Injuries Mended

By the end of a nine-game schedule
there are a substantial number of
players out with injuries and an
even larger number limping from one
thing or another. Now is the time for
those strained muscles and banged-
up knees to mend. But they will have
to do more than mend—before we are
back long from Thanksgiving vacation
Trainer Norris Eastman will have all
the “cripples” working just as hard
as they did during the season trying
to strengthen their weak limbs and
joints.

Freshman and sophomore football
players have usually been placed in a
special afternoon P.E. class for the
rest of the second semester. Most
of the juniors or seniors on the team
attend these sessions to stay in shape
and just have a good time playing
basketball, or handball, or water polo.

maak ke

TUES.-WED.

Paramount Presents

JAMES STEWART
KIM NOVAK

ALFRED HITCHCOCK'S

VERTIGO

 

 

 

 

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

>
>
-
The late Coach Charlie Harrington | |{
started bi-weekly meetings for the ||}
Generals’ quarterbacks last year and | |f
kept in touch with them in summer |}
“correspondence courses” up until f
his tragic death in a Kansas auto-
mobile accident in July. Those ses-

i A i i i ee i i ee i i i

ic i i cl lc cl lll ll nen

4
Waggy’s Jewelers}
35 S. Main Street ’
Phone HO 3-4121 ’
THE HOME OF QUALITY :
4

 

sions will probably be continued in
some form this year.

Some time in February, having just
finished pulling up their grades from
the usual sag during the football sea-
son, some 50 or 60 footballers will re-
port for Spring Practice, bringing
home even more emphatically the fact
that winning football is a year-round
proposition.

Radio Hospital
*
Radio, TV, Phonograph

Sales and Service

 

 

VARSITY
BILLIARD

 

The First National Bank

of Lexington
*
has special checking accounts

for students

 

 

ACADEMY

Catering
To Students

Corner of

 

*

 

 

HO 3-3531

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

BROWN’S
CLEANING
WORKS
We call for

and deliver
HO 3-2013 14 Randolph St.

 

 

 

 

 

 

ROCKBRIDGE LAUNDRY

and

Dry Cleaners

eee ae ee ee ee ee ee ee nfo ofe oho ofe fe
eye TT Tees ss ee eee ee ee ee

Se ee

ebb bbbbheebeeetentndes

%

Washington and Jefferson :
:

! White’s Music ;
e

Oo

HO 3-3522

+

%

:

+

Store :
(Opposite State Theater) ‘
.
Phonographs—Hi-Fi +
Expert Repair Service ;
%

7 :

5 W. Nelson St. Lexington, Va. =
:

+

$

 

LOSSES ESTEE EEE REET EE ES

Baker
Ford Sales

 

eee ooo ree rfe ode ohooh afoot ofe oles of oe oe oe feof ae af ode oe ead ofe ofa ae ae ae ae ae fe ofa oe oe fe rhe nfo nfo

We Feature

SEALTEST

Dairy Products
To get the best get Sealtest”’

over twenty different products in addition to
delicious Sealtest ice cream

Block and Crushed Ice

Your favorite mixes—Ice Cold

Maple-Rock Distributors, Inc.

Phone HO 3-2168

Herb rbe rhe he ofe ode ode ole ole ofe oe ae ne oe oe oe oe oe oe oe oe oe oe ae ae ode ale oes ofa oe oe oe oe afe oe oe ole ole vie nfo oko ofenfende

Best in the book for
air travel...

yegmont
AIRLINES

Piedmont Airlines

  
   

 
  
 

/I
Ty
Arhines

   

 

 

   

 

 
   
  

  
  

 

serves the Top of the South with

fast frequent flights... offers connecting
service to all parts of the world. Call Piedmont

Airlines or your Travel Agent for reservations, information.

 

verte

Phebleolhellh he elolblolbohlebieloh toh hehehehe

Shirts Transparently Wrapped

te CHICAGO

*

   

to NEW YORK

  
 

WASHINGTON

   

   

   
 
 

STAUNTON

HARRISUNBURG
WAYNESBORO.
NEWPORT NEWS -
HAMPT!

CHARLOTTESVILL

BETTER DEALS

CLEARANCE
of lot for 1961 Models

for Freshness

*
AGENTS:

Fraternities, Dorms and Co-op

CINCINNATI

  
 

Ss
MARIETTA
CHARLES ae
Ela LYNCHBURG
~e\ ROANOKE
DANVILLE
~e\
fonnsen cir

KINGS)
os GREENSBORO
en HIGH POINT

LOUISVILLE

    
 
 

KNOXVILLE

     
 

MOREHEAD CITY
BEAUFOR'

\ WILMINGTON

MYRTLE BEACH

FAYETTEVILLE

CHARLOTTE. pinenuR:
SOUTHERN PRES
/ ABERDEEN

:

ASHEVIL \
HENDERSONVILLE

   
 

NEW AND
USED CARS

Highway 60 East

 

 

 

 

 

 

to ATLANTA

 

 

 

 

 

     

——

 

 

Terre eee eee eee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee

STANLEY DONEN ===
eee ee ee

 

 

te Bee Me Me Me Me Be Ba Be BeBe Bie Be Ba Me Me Ba Be Be Bone Bie Ba Bia Mie Ba Bea Be Be Mts Ba Me ae iManitte
erhoobe she ofe fe she nfe oho ofe fe oe ofe oho ole fe ae oe ole fe feof afe of fe ae ae ae ole fe oe oe ale fe fe

28,
%

SEE OEE: . Along the Route of the Pacemakers

 

 

 

 

LEEPER ete

IDEAL
BARBER SHOP

‘
e
i.
Y
;
. QUICK SERVICE
%

%
%
%
%
RA
%
te
%
%
%

 

We aforfe fo cfe ole she of of ofe of +,

oboe ole rfe obese oho ooo eae oe eo oe oka oe oe oe ole se oe oe

 

 

 

THE DUTCH INN

For Reservation Call
MRS. KATHERINE ADAMS
HO 3-3433

 

 

 

 

 

STUDENTS ACCOUNTS INVITED HERE
Member F. D.L C.

 

 

 

 

 

Green Valley Motel

Ted’s Steak House

Finest Foods
Choice Meats

Ww
SUNDAY DINNERS

One Mile North on
U. S. Highway No. 11

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA
HO 3-2195

MoT

 

 

 

HAIR
Man

Perrrrrr rrr rr rr rr TT

   
  

 
     

  

 

 

    
    

    
   

THE NEW Route 60 Buena Vista If
White Top COO OCOOOOHOOOOOOOOOOSOH OOOOH OHO8OSOOSOOS90O8OOSO _ | | Si
Restaurant how to get a head | Ba}

* The Southern Inn It’s easy to make headway (female-wise, campus-wise and i hi Li nM

Hate _.the Matoral Way

  

every-wise) if you use ‘Vaseline’ Hair Tonic ... made spe-
cially for men who use water with their hair tonic. ‘Vaseline’
Hair Tonic’s 100% pure, light grooming oil replaces oil that
water removes. ‘Vaseline’ Hair Tonic will not evaporate ,

 

Chacts Ory Scalp one
| Leone Dondrett

    

Cordially invites you to make this your headquarters for good food
Here you get the best food for the most reasonable prices

|

A personal invitation

oho he odeoe ode ode fe she oho tere fe fe ofo oleae ahead fe ofeetesfeate

to the —
Students Our Specialties: will remain clear and clean. And just a little does a lot!
. . a
a Steaks, Chicken, Country Ham, and the best sandwiches TS ceeaR fF
Try our delicious foods prc T'S Clean 17'S

 

Route 60 East

 

*VASELINE

Meet your friends here

 

  

VASELINE

hoodoo fee fe oho ooo ofeote ooo ae afoote foe ofoafeoleoteofeofe fe ale ale ofeofeofefecfe age

 

ee es

 

1S A REG!

efoto deeb ode ode te ote ote ote ote ote oteoteoteotesteoteotees

STEREO TRADEMARK OF CHESEBROUG H-PONO’S am

 
in th

Ai tim

 

TUESDAY
Edition

Che Ring-tum Phi

Washington and Lee Semi-Weekly Newspaper

TUESDAY
Edition

 

Volume LXI

  

Dr. Borden chats with John Ciardi
Auditorium.

UCA Coaches Local Boys
In Football, Other Sports

Many W&L students who are mem-
bers of the UCA Boys Clubs have
helped this fall in bringing football
on a competitive basis to the boys in
Lexington’s elementary schools.

About a month ago, the boys, all
fourth, fifth, and sixth graders, were
divided up into eight-man teams which
practiced one afternoon a week, and
played on Saturdays. Equipment was
supplied from a $100 budget of the
UCA which was supplemented by Dick
Miller and the W&L Athletic Depart-
ment.

The highlight of the season was a
Thanksgiving Bowl Game held on the
Friday before vacation. The winners
of the day are to be rewarded with
a trip into Cave Spring under the
direction of Nick Denton, head of
the W&L Spelunkers. Directly after
the game a pair of shoulder pads were
awarded to the most improved player
as determined by the UCA men who
had coached.

 

before last night’s lecture in duPont

—Photo by Young

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA, NOVEMBER 29, 1960

By STEVE HENRY

The 20th century literary man is
set apart from the writers of other
ages because he lives in a constantly
changing world where nothing can be
presupposed, John Ciardi told a
duPont Auditorium audience last night.

Ciardi, poet and professor at Rut-
gers University, opened an extended
Glasgow-sponsored literary sympos-
ium, speaking on “The Last Time I
Saw Wordsworth.”

Mr. Ciardi will speak again tonight
in duPont Auditorium at 8:15 p.m.
The title of his talk is “The Next
Time I See Confusion.” The talk to-
night will continue the goal he set
in last night’s talk, pointing out some
of the preconceptions of nineteenth
century poetry and showing how they
are not applicable to the confusion of
20th century life.

Every day we meet confusions
which never once occurred to
Wordsworth,” said Ciardi. “Words-
worth never worried about Freud,
about Darwin, and now such prob-
lems of life are sure to arise.”

 

“Wordsworth didn’t have to ask the
number of questions which any serious
writer asks today,” said Ciardi. “He
didn’t have to contend with Freud,
Darwin or any of the others.”

“No one today is going to write
like Wordsworth. There is nothing
predetermined, and the poet must
choose his own forms to settle a gen-
eral dislocation which grips the artist.”

Ciardi said that the poet must
deal with two major audiences, the
vertical audience and the horizon-
tal audience.

“Everyone alive is part of the hori-
zontal audience,” said Ciardi, “but the
vertical audience is neither all alive
nor all dead.”

“The masses make up the horizontal
audience; they have no reason to be-
long to the vertical audience. Their
role is to give the best-sellers a short,
happy life.”

“The vertical audience, however,
is in touch with the art of all times.
It sees the continuity of all things,
and, assuming the art is good, the

 

|
| doesn’t make sense, are you going to

 

estimation of the vertical audience |

Commerce Fraternity To Initiate New
Foreign Student Exchange Program

The Commerce Fraternity is spon-
soring the International Association of
Students in Economics and Commer-
cial Sciences program at Washington
and Lee. The program is now under
consideration by a steering committee
under the direction of Billy McWil-
liams and Andy McThenia.

The members of the committee in-
clude Huntley Biggs, Carter Fox, Mike
Masinter, Bill Moore and Fred Walk-
er. The faculty advisors are Dr. John
Gunn and Dr. Leland McCloud. At
present this committee is working on
locating jobs in the United States for
foreign students. The number of jobs
that the committee finds will determ-
ine the number of Washington and
Lee students that will be able to enter
the plan.

The final decisions concerning
students entering the plan will be

made on the local level by a com-
mittee of faculty and students. The
most qualified will be chosen ac-
cording to their past record in all
phases of campus activity. While a
firm knowledge of the language of
the country one wishes to attend is
stressed, it is not a requirement.

The students accepted into the pro-
gram can work from six weeks to three
months in the European programs. In
general, their salaries will allow them
to break even during the period they
are employed. They will be required to
pay for their transportation, however
this will be at reduced rates since
AIESEC is chartering a plane to Paris.

The Commerce Fraternity commit-
tee will begin to offer and process ap-
plations in January. It will then sub-
mit it’s decisions to the international

 

convention, and receive word con-

 

cerning those students chosen by
March.

Andy McThenia, a co-chairman of
the committee participated in this
program last summer. He worked in
Germany on a plan that closely re-
sembled a junior executive training
program.

In addition, the steering commit-
tee also asks any students who may
have knowledge of possible jobs for
foreign exchange students to please
get in touch with one of its mem-
bers.

In recognition of the growing in-
terest in international business oper-
tions various universities in the
United States have been supporting
a new type of foreign exchange train-
ing program. This program called
AIESEC, International Association of

(Continued on page 4)

 

37 Grad

By ROY GOODWIN

Friday Assistant Managing Editor

Joseph L. Arnold, a 1937 graduate
of Washington and Lee, has_ been
nominated by W&L for the 1960
Sports Illustrated Silver Anniversary
All-American Team, it was announced
today.

An attorney, real estate developer,
and sportsman of both Lexington and
Versailles, Ky., Arnold received his
LL.B. degree from W&L in 1987.
While a student he was one of W&L’s
finest halfbacks, and in 1935 led the
W&L team to the Southern Confer-
ence Championship.

 

Moot Court Team Loses
In Wake Forest Tourney

On Saturday, Nov. 19, the Moot
Court Team of Washington and Lee’s
Law School narrowly missed a chance
to go to New York to participate in
the national finals. The team lost out
in the second round of the Moot Court
regional debates at Wake Forest Col-
lege in Winston-Salem, N. C.

The W&L team got off to a good start
by defeating the team from the Uni-
evrsity of Virginia in the first round.
In the second round, however, the
team was edged out by South Caro-
lina. As two teams go to the nationals,
this win for South Carolina, in addi-
tion to a bye that they drew in the
third round assured their going to
the nationals.

The team from W&L that went to
Wake Forest consisted of seven
members of the Law School: John
Morrison, Bob Gilliam, Tom Bryant,
Bob Shepherd, Gerald Smallwood,
and two alternates; Joe Spivey and
Ray Robrecht.

The case this year involved a vio-
lation of the National Labor Relations
Act. The National Labor Relations
Board alleged an unfair labor prac-
tice against an insurance company in
that they refused to bargain in good
faith with the union certified to rep-
resent their employees as required by
the Labor Relations Act. The W&L
team had prepared their brief to rep-
resent the insurance company.

|

 

Up For SI Silver All-Stars

A release from Sports Ilustrated
says that nomineees’ names with the
citations by the various universities,
have been submitted to the board of
judges which will pick 25 finalists
for the award in December.

The Silver Anniversary All-Ameri-

can awards are based on distinguished
living during the twenty-five years

intervening since college football, the
release said.

“The essential idea of the awards,
that athletics and education are joined
in ‘the pursuit of rounded human
values,” the release reads, “is il-
lustrated most graphically by the im-
pressive careers of the nominees and
by the great variety of fields of en-

 

 

Deferred Rush Takes Twenty-Six
PiKA, Sigma Chi Pledge Majority

By HAL McCLANAHAN

According to the latest IFC rec-
ords, 27 of those 76 freshmen who did
not pledge a fraternity during rush
week have accepted bids from nine of
W&L’s 18 fraternities.

This year’s deferred pledge repre-
sents a 5 per cent increase in com-
parison to the freshmen who pledged
during deferred rush last year. Last
year 19 of 59 non-fraternity fresh-
men, 32 per cent, pledged after the
formal rush while 27 of this year’s 76
non-fraternity men, or 37 per cent,
have pledged. In comparison to the
number of boys pledging during de-
ferred rush over the past years, the
number of deferred pledges this year
is a little high, since roughly a third
of the boys who did not pledge dur-
ing rush week have been taken by
fraternities heretofore.

IFC President Dave Lefkowitz
had the following to say in regard
to this year’s deferred rush pledg-
ing: “I am quite pleased with re-
sults of this year’s deferred rush.
I am glad that the fraternities have
been so successful with their defer-
red rush pledging.”

At the present moment Sigma Chi
leads the other eight fraternities, who
who have taken new members in de-
ferred rush, with a total of eight
freshmen. The PiKA house is second
with five. These additional pledges
bolster the houses’ pledge classes to
16 and 12 respectively. DU has taken
three freshmen in deferred rush. The
following houses have each added two

freshmen to their pledge classes: Beta,
SPE, Phi Kap, Kappa Alpha, and
Kappa Sigma. Pi Phi and Lambda
Chi have each pledged one new mem-
ber.

Listed below are the names of the
houses and their new pledges: Beta
Theta Pi, Steve Parl and Steve Daven-
port; Delta Upsilon, John Wiggs, Ed
Bundell, and Bill Van Dyke; Kappa
Alpha, Andy Hyde and Bruce Lawton;
Kappa Sigma, Jim Sylvester and Bob
Brewer; Lambda Chi Alpha, Mel
Mitchell; Phi Kappa Sigma, George
Spalding and Chuck Shumate; Pi
Kappa Alpha, Ken Kowalski, Charles
Urquhart, Jim Turner, Dick Lesly,
and Dick Goode; Pi Kappa Phi, Jim
Horton; Sigma Chi, Dick Holiday,
Sandy Ross, Bob Moye, Jim Hardin,
Mark Gee, Jim French, Pete Stelling,
and Craig Blackstock; and Sigma Phi
Epsilon, Steve Colvin and Dick Sager.

 

|

| Since rush week seven fraternities
| have depledged 12 of their pledges.
|The following is a list of the seven
houses and the freshmen they have
depledged: Lambda Chi Alpha, Dennis
Morgan; Sigma Nu, Buddy Kroger,
| Bob Brewer, and Jim Sylvester; Delta
| Tau Delta, Bruce Lawton; Delta Upsi-
| lon, John Lundy, Phi Gamma Delta,
Bill Van Dyke and Noel Bright; Sig-
ma Chi, Jim Dunlap and Sam Rayder
| and Phi Kappa Sigma, Austin Bray.
Bruce Lawton, Bob Brewer, Jim Syl-
vester, and Bill Van Dyke have since
pledged other houses.

 

 

| There are presently 57 non-fraternity
members of the freshman class,

 

deavor in which they have excelled.”
Sixty-seven colleges and universi-
ties across the country have studied
their senior football players of the
year 1935, and entered their choices
in the roster for the award. The men
selected for the award will have ex-
celled in sports, public service, and
business, according to the release.

Arnold entered W&L in 1932 and
was the first football player ever to
wear the “00” number which Wash-
ington and Lee traditionally re-
served for players of exceptional
promise and ability.

Over a three-year career, the re-
lease added, Arnold distinguished him-
self as one of the finest halfbacks in
W&L football history. He received
All-State, All-Conference, and honor-
able mention All-American honors
while a student.

Following his graduation, he joined
Allen, Botts, & Duncan, a Lexington
law firm. In two years, Arnold be-
came a member of the firm.

In World War II, he served with
the US Government as a member of
the counter-intelligence corps, and
served in Okinawa and in Korea.

Since 1946, he has entered the
construction business, the coal busi-
ness, and the real estate business.

The president of Fayette Enterprises,
Ine., which is developing a subdivision
in Lexington, he is also president of
the Lexington Aircraft Sales, Inc., a
corporation designed to sell airplanes
and render charter services.

Arnold achieved national notice on
the country’s sports pages as the pres-
ident of Turfland Corporation, a firm
which buys, sells, and breeds thorough-
bred horses. The first horse acquired
by Turfland was Bally Ache, pur-
chased for the price of $1,259,000.

Arnold was the only nominee from
Kentucky in the race for the award.

 

Student Directories may be ob-
tained in the Registrar’s Office after
tomorrow.

The Debate Council will have its
Calyx picture taken tomorrow night
at 8:00 p.m. in Payne 32.

 

will prove more valid every time
than the estimation of the horizon-
tal audience.”

The poet must make his works ver-
tical, according to Ciardi.

“He must find the human position
in relation to the position of the world
around him and create. The hori-
zontal audience may not want reality,
but the vertical audience does. The
poet isn’t concerned with the pretty,
but instead with the real.”

Ciardi called poetry the “continu-
ing experience of the race, and not
a mere advertisement.”

“People who ask why poetry doesn’t
make sense ruin all decent conver-
sation about the subject,” he com-
mented.

Ciardi asked members of the au-
dience to recall the last vivid dream
each had experienced.

“Just because that dream probably

say that it took a Communist homo-
sexual writing on the left bank of the
Seine to devise the plot?”

“The rhythm of our age is com-

 

Number 21

~ Ciardi On 20th Century Confusion

plex,” Ciardi said. “It is the ryhthm
of the Jazz musician, of the mechan-
ic, of static; and our lives are the
same way.”

“There is no way to set anything as
a standard today. The setting up of a
tradition only leads to the breaking
of that tradition.” a

Life, according to Ciardi, is a series
of patterns familiar to the mind, and
stagnant patterns lead to what the
sociologist call a “cultural lag.”

“The poet sees the new, the anti-
established which breaks away from
the patterns, and he must find new
forms to settle his own needs, even if
it means abandoning some of his own
audience.”

The Glasgow Endowment Com-
mittee-sponsored literary sympos-
ium, entitled “The American Writer
and His Public,” will continue
through Dec. 9.

The schedule for the rest of the
series is as follows:
Wednesday, Nov. 30—Coffee in East
Lounge, Evans Dining Hall, honoring
(Continued on page 4)

Danzansky Spends Holidays
On 1961 SWMSFC Musical;
New Production Taking Shape

By BOB BRIDEWELL

The 1961 SWMSFC Musical is
rapidly progressing from an idea to
a reality. The first act of the play,
based on an old Greek comedy by
Aristophanes, was completed during
the Thanksgiving holidays, and casting
for the 47 available parts in the pro-
duction has been scheduled for the
week before the Christmas vacation.

Steve Danzansky, producer and di-
rector of the musical, which is still
unnamed as of this date, was pleased
at the progress made in “integrating
the many parts of this production to
create a finished work.” He said, “For
months we peck out ideas and pro-
gress slowly, if at all, but as time
goes on the musical seems to pick up
speed as we weave the script, score,
and other details together. New ideas
come quickly, and the finished pro-
duct gradually takes shape.”

Danzansky has been working with
Dr. Ross Borden on the script of
the spring musical.

Last year’s SWMSFC Musical, “The
Cannon’s Mouth,” also produced and
directed by Danzansky, played for
five performances to a capacity crowd
of over one thousand. Over one
hundred people were involved in the
production of “The Cannon’s Mouth,”
making it the largest extra-curricular
activity on the Washington and Lee
campus. This year’s production prom-
ises to involve even more personnel,
as Danzansky has increased the cast
alone from last year’s 35 to an esti-
mated 47 parts for the 1961 Musical.

The casting will be open to the en-
tire student body, with 25 male roles
to be filled. Girls from Sweet Briar
will compete for the 22 female parts
written into the musical. Danzansky
added, “I plan to hold tryouts in
about two weeks so that voice ranges
of the members of our cast will be
known to the arrangers. Professor
Stewart, who did the arranging last
year, is unable to do so this year, so
we've turned to professional sources.
Under consideration at the present
time are several prominent arrangers
in Washington, D.C. We have also
contacted a man who arranged for
Rodgers and Hammerstein on Broad-
way and is now retired.”

Most of the members of the orches-
tra for the Musical have been selected.
Danzansky has tried to produce a
smooth sound by using more strings
and less brass in this year’s group. He
also mentioned the possibility of using
Sweet Briar girls in the orchestra.

Many of the people who worked on
last year’s executive staff are returning
this year. Some positions are still
open, however, and these will be posted

 

 

 

 

 

NOTICE

There will be a Commerce Fra-
ternity beer party at 8 p.m. on
Thursday, Dec. 1, at the Zeta Beta
Tau House. All members and pro-
fessors from the commerce, eco-
nomics and political science depart-
ments are cordially invited to at-
tend.

There will be a meeting of the
Forensic Union at 7:15 in the For-
ensic Union room of the Student
Union tonight,

 

on the ODK board in the next few
days. Danzansky expressed an opti-
mistic outlook concerning student en-
thusiasm in the musical. He added,
“Much of the legwork this year will
be handled by two assistant directors,
Tim Morton and Ronnie Alenstein,
both of whom worked in last year’s
musical. A year’s experience has done
wonders for us all. As this year’s
production evolves, I find myself dis-
satisfied with things that I accepted
last year. I am quite pleased with
what we have done so far, and I feel
that this show will be quite an im-
provement over “The Cannon’s
Mouth.”

Lee Foundation
Holds Seminar

The Law Seminar for Journalists will
be held at Washington and Lee on
Dec. 3, this Thursday. Students in
Journalism and those otherwise in-
terested are urged to attend this
conference.

The Seminar is planned for people
profesisonally engaged in news work
for newspapers, television, or radio.

Registration is completed by fill-
out a questionaire and mailing it,
along with a check for twenty dol-
lars, to the Law Seminar for Jour-
nalists.

The Planning Committee has in-
cluded: James A. Eichner, Department
of Law, Richmond, Va.; Charles P.
Light, Dean, School of Law, Wash-
ington and Lee University; O. W.
Riegel, Director Lee Memorial Jour-
nalism Foundation, Washington and
Lee University.

 

Members of the Advisory Committee
include: M. Carl Andrews, Past Chair-
man, National Conference of Editorial
Writers; The World News, Roanoke,
Va.; John W. Eggleston, President,
Judicial Conference of Virginia, Chief
Justice of the Supreme Court of Ap-
Peals of Virginia, Norfolk, Va.; I.
William Hill, Feature Editor, The
Washington Star, Washington, D. C.;
Robert J. McCandish, President, Vir-
ginia State Bar Association, Fairfax,
Va.; William J. Misset, President, Vir-
ginia Press Association, Publisher of
the News-Herald, Suffolk, Va.

Saturday morning and afternoon
lectures will be given in Payne Hall
6 and in East Room, Tucker Hall.
Lunch will be served in the Letitia
Pate Evans Dining Hall, in a private

Members of the Seminar are invited
to complete, at home, an assignment
in legal reporting. Each member will
be given a text of selected appellate
court decision on which a news story
is to be written. Background research
will involve the finding and consul-
tation of related cases in a local law
library. In some instances it may be
found that there are some local angles
and records relating to the subject of
the Appellate court decision.

To date, 37 men have registered for
the seminar. These include six stu-
dents and 31 professional journalists
from the various fields.
 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 2

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

Che Ring-tum Phi

Tuesday Edition

Member of Virginia Intercollegiate Press Association

 

Editorially Speaking

Overload?

There is no doubt that an honor system may be overloaded
by too many written rules and regulations which deal with the
more trivial aspects of school life. It might be argued that honor
is a relative term and that whether a certain action is, or is not, a
breach of the honor code could be decided by the contemporary
student generation. Our Student Body Handbook states that
such is the case.

If we accept this idea of an honor system that changes with
the generations, as we suppose we must, the next question that
comes to mind is, “what would happen if the present student
generation were to decide that it was no longer a breach of the
honor code to fail to report a suspected honor violation?” The
obvious answer would be that the failure to report a violation
makes up, along with lying, cheating and stealing, the four
cardinal sins against the honor system and that the above viola-
tions are more specific and relatively less troublesome to pin
down.

There has been an alarming tendency among the student of
late to talk of individual honor as a thing that can be pressed
only so far and which, when stretched, or imposed upon, ceases
to be bound by principles of honor and good conduct. There
have been many complaints that the honor system here is be-
coming overloaded, and that certain organizations within the
University Community have misused the honor system in that
they have, through the Executive Committee of the Student
Body, had certain actions declared to be honor violations in
order to cut down on the number of personnel required to
protect their profits. They forget that one of the beauties of
having an honor system is that we do not need a gestapo force
to watch over our every move.

The Dance Board has been the target of much criticism.
There seem to be many students who feel that dance plans
should be transferable. They have, therefore, attacked both
the Dance Board and the EC for declaring that the transfer of
a dance plan is a breach of the honor code.

We ask those who believe that the action of the EC has over-
loaded the honor system to consider these two points:

1) All those who buy a dance plan place their signature be-
low the following statement: “I understand that admission to all
the dance sets is personal and non-transferable.”

2) To transfer a dance plan is to cheat the Dance Board out
of the price of a door admission, which is much more than the
purchaser of the plan has to pay per dance set.

 

It seems to us that any person who had signed the above
statement and then deliberately gave his plan to another stu-
dent would be guilty of an honor violation whether or not the
EC made any previous ruling on the matter. The University and
all the organizations and persons within it should be able to trust
the members of its community to uphold any contract or pledge
which they have signed.

It must also be remembered that the Dance Board has to
work on a projected budget. Door sales make up approximately
one tenth of this budget. Without the money gained from
these sales, The Board would not be able to contract the type
of entertainment to which the W&L dance goers have become
accustomed.

Therefore, when a student transfers his dance plan, he, in
effect, cheats the Dance Board out of a sale and the money from
that sale. It might be argued that one dance plan was bought
and that only one was being used; hence no one lost money.
This argument is seen to be faulty when we recall that admission
at the door is much more expensive per dance set than the price
per set that is paid by the holder of a dance plan.

We maintain, therefore, that the transfer of a dance plan
is and should be considered a breach of the honor system, and
that those who feel that it should not be so considered ought
either to ask that the Dance Board withdraw the statement con-
cerning the non-transferability of the plan from the front of
the plan, or in the event this request is denied, (as we feel that
it should be) cease to purchase the plans and pay the door
prices which are by no means unreasonable.

Send Us A Letter

The Tuesday Edition of the Ring-tum Phi would like to
encourage the students and faculty of Washington and Lee to
write letters to the editor. The letters should be brief and to
the point. We reserve the right to edit these letters as circum-
stances may require.

There are many controversies which arise throughout the
year that affect both the students and faculty. If you have an
opinion, why not make it public? Your ideas may well influence
the decisions that are made by the various representative bodies
around the school.

 

By HUGO HOOGENBOOM

During this time in our lives we
make decisions which will effect our
entire future. The most important one
of all concerns our future profession.
With so many prospective doctors,
lawyers, salesmen and so forth around,
some perfectly fascinating careers are
completely ignored by young college
men. Of the many splendid opportuni-
ties open to young collge men, one
of the most splendid is police work.
Perhaps some of you .are unfamiliar
with the intimate details of this pro-
fession, or are only cognizant of such
aspects as are revealed (albeit in a
warped manner) in the various televi-
sion programs which function as elec-
tronic romans policiers. For you un-
fortunates I can happily recommend
a study of an ordinary American Police
Force, our own Lexington Constabu-
lary.

These clear-eyed, alert, smartly
uniformed officers will serve more
than adequately as examples for my
subject: Police Work as a Life-Time

 

Career. Whether clad in mufti or
in their crisp brown uniforms, Lex-
ington’s police seem to have a per-
manent air of dependability and
forcefulness about them. Even when
performing the onerous task of writ-
ing out a summons (they prefer,
usually, just to give warning, since
they feel that the proper function
of the law is prevention, not pun-
ishment), they do so with a snap and
decision that would do credit to an
Army general. And they do their
writing with an ease which one
would not expect from those who
have not had the advantages of a
grade school education.

But enough about their salutory ef-
fect on the law-abiding citizen. What
is the reaction of the would-be law-
breaker who may inadvertently stray
into the confines of our fair city? Let
the facts speak for themselves. What
would your reaction be if you came
skulking into town to case the Rock-
bridge National with an eye to heist-
ing the priceless photomural of Natur-

 

al Bridge and you came upon, as you
would say in your thieves’ cant, the
local fuzz? There he would stand on
main street, cigar in mouth and hands
in pockets, authority practically drip-
ping out of every pore. Or perhaps you
would come upon him as he was
handing out parking tickets in the
lot behind the movie, or perhaps you
would see him as he was beating up
some student for resisting arrest. You
would come to respect that gleam of
intelligence in his eye and slink off
to tell your accomplices that Lexington
looked too tough.

The casual visitor to Lexington
does not, however, see the police
force doing the painstaking, back-
breaking, detailed work which rarely
pays off but which is so necessary.
A perfect example of this dedicated
sort of work is found in last year’s
license changeover day. Promptly
after midnight of the last day, the
police descended on all parked cars
bearing the wrong license plate
and gave them tickets. There are

 

By STEVE GALEF

This year we have had much cause
to take a long look at the Universi-
ty’s academic regulations. With an in-
creasing emphasis on academic ex-
cellence, it is only natural that we
view the controls and methods for
achieving that excellence in closer
perspective.

One area with which we are par-
ticularly concerned is that of the
grade-point ratio. While our parents
may still be quite baffled about its
internal workings, most of us have
managed to figure it out, and accept
it. However, it is within this marking
system that there is great room for
change, in order to make it conform
with other University policies.

As all of us have happily or un-
happily noticed, there is no pro-
vision within the marking system
that will register a student’s exact
level of achievement. We now ac-
cept the fact that, in general, a B
grade is given for work between
the 83-92 level; an A is given in
the 93-100 area, and so on. The par-
ticular ranges vary with different
professors, but in each case, it is

Raven Rants

 

By GERRY OUELLETTE

Bleary and bushed we returned to
classes yesterday morning following
the four-day Thanksgiving holiday.
Our condition was not due to any long-
distance traveling, for we spent the
vacation in the Lexington area. The
situation arose more from how we
spent the time rather than where we
spent it.

First, we stocked up on the essentials
which provide for a good date week-
end: food and liquor. We could not
decide which offended us most, fight-
ing the Lexington ladies in the local
markets, or trying to get to the counter
of the liquor store on Wednesday after-
noon. Nevertheless, we accomplished
both tasks, being of a stubborn nature,
and we dare say that the results were
much worth the efforts.

Secondly, we drove out to one of
the nearby “Riding Academies,”
and we appropriated one of the
rider. We must comment at this
point that we enjoyed the hours pro-
vided for by these institutions dur-
ing such times as Thanksgiving hol-
idays. There were none.

Following the return trip to Lex-
ington, we commenced our vacation
properly speaking, that is, the relax-
ation which is (or should be) under-
stood by the term “holiday.”

We were pleasantly surprised to
see that many other students had
chosen a plan similar to ours. We kept
running into other couples, the one
individual a W&L student, and the
other a lady rider from one of the
academies, In fact, we could venture to
say that this Thanksgiving holiday

 

saw more students in the Lexington
area than in years of the near past.

 

 

quite obvious that there is a large
range from one grade level to the
next,

As a result, very often a student
will become lazy when he feels fairly
certain he has little or no chance of
achieving a grade in the next higher
range. While one can never question
the value of personal satisfaction, there
seems to be little more that this in-
volved when one receives an 81-C,
or a 92-B. This type of grade does
very little for incentive, and often
goes a long way towards destroying
it.

We cannot question the University’s
reason for maintaining this present
policy, but we can find methods that
might improve upon this policy. We
feel that it is most important to of-
fer incentive to those students who
desire it, and, at the same time, to
give them recognition for it.

Possibly one method to change
the present system would be to put
the marking system on a five point
schedule. Under this system, a stu-
dent would receive a five for a
grade of A. This grade would still

cover the same grade average as

Vacation In Lexington Described
As Enjoyable And Not Lonely

All this goes to show that Lexing-
ton has the potential to enjoyment
even in long periods of academic un-
activity. Perhaps a cabin in the coun-
try, an attractive date, a good supply
of food and liquor, and the pleasant
weather aid in the make-up of a fine
holiday, but nevertheless we must in-
sist that anyone can enjoy himself
even in Lexington, and even during
a Thanksgiving vacation.

We must note, however, that we
were displeased to find the Student
Union and other university buildings,
excepting the Library, tightly secured
for the duration, We thought this an
unnecessary measure of security. One
could have found himself quite em-
barrassed had one invited people over
for a visit, and had he only been able
to point to the exterior of his uni-
versity, providing approximately the
same treatment any tourist with no
affiliations here whatsoever finds.

When we returned to classes on
Monday morning, in the condition we
mentioned earlier, we discovered that
the faculty had been dreaming up
all sorts of projects for the next three
weeks prior to the long break at
Christmas. Such as a concentration of
quizzes and term papers so soon after
a vacation, during which we found
so much delight, can only lead us
to believe one of two alternatives.
Either professors despise vacation
periods, or they find themselves eating
too much during the holidays and
vent their digestive derangements on
the students.

Be it as it may, there are three
short weeks to Christmas vacation;
we beg the help of God to reach
the date and extend a hearty “good
luck” to the rest of the student body.

 

 

 
      
     

  

NOBODY'S
GOING TO GIVE
ME ANYTHING

FOR BEETHOVENS

IM DISILLUSIONED.

 

 

 

 

 

Tn tog U0 Per OFAN rights reserved]
Geer Ihab by Uned torneo Spatooes be

M-30

 

 

 

; YOU KNOW, IT IS KIND OF
HARD TO
WITHOUT A LITTLE GREED

Pes

 

IMAGINE A HOLIDAY
ATTACHED To IT! /

 

 

 

 

Grade System Revision Urged

the present three point credit.

Added to this would be a four
point credit for a grade of B-plus.
This particular grade could be given
to those students whose average falls
into the upper third of the B grade
range. At the same time, a three point
credit would be given to those stu-
dents whose average lies within the
rest of the B range.

The same type of policy could be
applied to the C range of grades. At
this level, a C-plus average could
be given a two point credit, and a
C average, the normal one point credit.
The grades below this would then
be given the usual zero and minus
one credits, for D’s and E’s and F’s
respectively.

(Continued on page 4)

 

Webster Unabridged

Graduate Work
Could Be Asked

In News Career

By ED WEBSTER

Years ago, a man clenching a high
school diploma could go into an of-
fice and come out with a_ respect-
able job. He had all the education
he needed. Today, for almost any
white-collar, air-conditioned, swivel-
chair job, a bachelor’s degree is con-
sidered essential.

The coming trend, now that col-
leges are giving out bachelor’s degrees
by the thousands, is for young pro-
fessional men to have masters degrees.

And, if we may project this trend
into the future, a Ph.D., may some-
day become a prerequisite for these
same positions.

This demand for educated men (or
rather, for degree-bearing people) is
especially noticeable in the newspaper
profession. Metropolitan newspapers
now expect their reporters to be able
to interpret the news—to be able to
record today’s news as it will appear in
history books a decade hence.

While this trend is admirable, it will
have interesting side-effects. Consider,
for instance, the following scene in
a newsroom, about 1975:

The city editor, Josiah Keats,
Ph.D., L.L.D., L.HLD., LittD., is
receiving a phone call. He scribbles
something on a legal pad, then stands
and addresses the news room:

 

“There’s been a double murder and
suicide on East Murphy Street. Who
in here has a sociology degree?”

A slight, pallid girl raises her hand.
“I did my thesis in criminology,” she
volunteers.

“Excellent. Take the photographer,
Dr. Snelch, with you. Try to find out
the murderer’s motivations. Check
his life history. See if he had any
complexes. Get pictures of the en-
vironment — neighborhood, peer
group, et cetera.”

The girl and the photographer walk
leisurely out, pausing now and then to
glance at titles on the floor-to-floor

ceiling bookcases that surround the .

newsroom.

A copy boy enters, bearing a sack
of mail, “You know, sir,” he says to
the city editor, “people are still send-
ing us mail addressed to the Morning
Globe.”

“Idiots!” snorts Dr. Keats. “It was
two years ago that we changed our
name to The Politico-Sociological Re-
view.

“Human beings can be rather try-
ing at times,” says the boy.

 

Hoogenboom Praises Local Police;
Suggests Lawman Career Possibilities

other examples, too numerous to
mention, which describe the Lexing-
ton Policeman’s single-minded de-
votion to his duty.

But mere words cannot do justice,
cannot adequately praise, cannot ex-
press enough gratitude to the Men in
Brown. I can only recommend that
the student some day take time off to
witness this splendid scene: The jack-
booted officer, with a bold careless
grin pokes a cigar in his mouth, ad-
justs his vizor, leaps onto his growl-
ing motor scooter and roars off into the
night on his never-ceasing round of
law-enforcement. No more fitting
words could be used to praise them
than the Jukes family motto: “They
saw their duty and they done it.”

One-Act Play
For Holidays

By BILL ROBERTS

Scene 1. (A_ typical American,
upper-middle-class family is gathered
around the table for what appears to
be a rather special dinner. The father
of the family is carving on a large
turkey and the mother is gingerly
serving a red material We can
hear her saying, “I just can’t under-
stand why my cranberry sauce didn’t
jell ...”)

Enter son and heir, betweeded and
apparently hungover.

FATHER: Well, hello. How was
the party last night? You and Sandra
have a good time?

SON: Not quite. I got shot down by
her for some turkey. (Father, puzzled,
looks at bird in front of him.) I
couldn’t believe it. If it hadn’t been
for a batch of new sounds that Al
had over there, it would have been a
loser.

LITTLE SISTER: (who has a crush
on Al): Who'd Al have a date with?

SON (annoyed): Nobody, he crash-
ed and burned in the afternoon.

LITTLE SISTER (obviously dis-
tressed): Golly, that’s terrible. I hope
he didn’t hurt his new Impala too
much.

SON (coolly): Naw, just a little dent
in his fender skirts. Unfortunately, his
mud flaps were ruined.

MOTHER (still looking sadly at
the cranberry sauce): I didn’t think it
was fashionable to have mud flaps on
your car these days.

SON: Well, Al doesn’t think so any
longer.

FATHER (changing the subject):
Tell us how things are going at school?

SON (glowing with pride): Much
better. I got rid of that dog and don’t
think I’m flagging the Silver Fox any
longer.

FATHER (impressed): And are you
pulling those grades up now?

SON: Yes, sir. No more D’s and F’s.

(Mother leaves table to bring in
the tipsy cake, her prize dish.)

MOTHER (ladling on brandy sauce):
Ummm.

SON( clutching his abdomen): Will
you all excuse me a minute, please?
(He rushes to the bathroom.)

MOTHER: Certainly, Son.

FATHER (chugging leftover sauce):
I don’t think we need to wait on
him. END SCENE 1.

SCENE 2. (The next night at dinner.
The family eats in silence. It is ob-
vious there has been some bitterness
between brother and sister earlier in
the day. Brother smiles cruelly as
sister rushes out to answer phone.)

SCENE 3. (Two nights later at din-
ner. The family eats in silence. It is
obvious there has been some bitter-
ness between mother and son earlier
in the day.)

SCENE 4. (The meal begins in sil-
ence. It is obvious there has been
some bitterness between father and
son earlier in the day.)

SON (tenderly): Golly, I can hardly
believe the vacation’s over. But I’ve
got to get on back to school.

MOTHER: Yes, it’s a shame. But
we're glad to have gotten to see you.

(Continued on page 4)

Che Ring-tum Phi

Tuesday Edition
The Ring-tum Phi is published Tues-
day and Friday during the college year.
It is printed wv, the Journalism Labor-
pend A Frees. aprnaten, and Lee Uni-

versity. e mailing add
899, Lexington, Va, . —
Entered as second class matter -
tember 20, 1946 at the Post Office. eg
ington, Va., under the act of March

 

 

National Advertising Representative:
The National Advertisers ervice, Inc.,
420 Madison Ave., New York, N.Y.

oer Mihbdlaesitizéi pesdiaiaiais Rosewell Page, III
usiness Manager.............. Huntley Biggs

Editorial Board ’ -
Managing Editor.................... Bill Roberts
Photography Editor........... Bill Young

Assistant Managing Editors

sas OANA aiNibeAalicec a Steve Galef
News Editor... Bob Bridewell
Sports Editor Steve Guild
Associate Editors........ Lanny Butler, Bill
: Smith, Ronnie King

Feature Bditor......ccccsssssess., Harvey Allen
ORY WO OFE vsssscsiessccs ccc, Roger Paine,
Hunter Manson

   

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

THE RING-TUM PHI

Page 3

 

Fauber, Kowalski To Lead Cagers Against Bridgewater College

Sophomores Give Best Support

On Young, Inexperienced Team

Washington and Lee’s youthful basketball squad opens its
1960-61 season Dec. 1 at Bridgewater College, and if things
turn out as indicated, W&L fans will be talking about the foot-
ball team’s success until early March.

The Generals, playing their third year under Coach Bob
McHenry, face an 18-game schedule with little experience,
even less height, and a questionable scoring punch.

Only two lettermen return from last season’s squad
which won 7 and lost 10, and which lost its first four
scorers via graduation. Unless McHenry discovers a
new sharpshooter, he’ll depend largely on his veterans,
6-2 Rodger Fauber and 6-0 Ken Kowalski, to assume the
point making burden.

Both boys are sophomores and both work most effectively
as corner men, although Kowalski can shift to the backcourt
with ease. Fauber played regularly last year until sidelined by
an illness, and he averaged 8.8 points and 9.1 rebounds a
game. Kowalski was a top reserve until Fauber’s loss, when
he became a regular and wound up with a scoring mark of 5.8
per game.

McHenry hopes each boy will score more by shooting more.
Fauber displayed 48.2 accuracy from the floor last year,
Kowalski hit on 42.1 per cent of his field goal attempts.

 

while Coach Bob McHenry discusses an important play with the top five o
Fauber, Bill Ide, Ken Kowalski, and Brett Thackston.
x

ee

BO regeagee

f the basketball ‘tome, John McDowell, Roger
—Photo by Young

 

 

*

The Coaches Corner

McHenry Counts
On ‘Go Attack’

Here it is the end of November and
another basketball season is upon us.
The football team and coaches made
all of us proud to be associated with
Washington and Lee. We hope that we,
too, can continue in their footsteps. It
certainly will be no easy task.

What is in store for the 1960-61
Generals’ opponents? We have a young
team that will make up in hustle what
it lacks in experience. The squad will
consist of one senior, three juniors,
nine sophomores, and a_ freshman.
These boys have been going at it for
six long weeks and are anxiously
awaiting their first opponent, the Lit-
tle Eight Champion of last year,
Bridgewater. The Eagles have three
of last year’s starters back from the
team that beat us twice, including
Jim Reedy, a 27 point per game scorer,
who is being pushed for Little All-
American.

After we play Bridgewater on
Thursday, we come home to cozy
Doremus to host Norfolk William and
Mary on Saturday. They too have

(Continued on page 4)

 

 

There is another letterman available in guard John
Kirk, a regular on McHenry’s first 1-15 team in 1958-
59, but scoring isn’t Kirk’s strong suit. He averaged only
2.4 a game as a starter. Even so, McHenry will look to
the 6-1 senior to provide some measure of maturity to
the starting five.

The Generals’ other starters are likely to be 5-9 sophomore
Brett Thackston in the backcourt and 6-6 freshman John Mc-
Dowell at center. Thackston saw some action with the varsity
last year, but he hardly rates as an experienced hand. He’ll be
the playmaker. McDowell is 6-6, the first of such size McHenry
has had as a college coach, and that’s enough to spell
S-T-A-R-T-E-R all across his practice jersey.

Top reserves are 6-3 Steve Rutledge, 6-4 John Culley,
6-1 Dave Grogan, and 6-0 Dave Beale.

Rutledge may move into a starting forward role early in
the season. A dislocated finger has handicapped him in pre-
season practice, but he rebounds well and has a deft jump
shot. Culley was the regular pivot man on the 1959-60 frosh
team, and Grogan was top freshman scorer. Beale uses his
pivot foot better than any player Coach McHenry has ever
seen.

McHenry says he expects to run when he can, but
he’ll rely primarily on patterns off a single pivot. “We'll
work for the percentage shots on offense and hustle like
mad on defense,” he summed up.

 

The Generals play nine games at home, and if they can
(Continued on page 4)

 

| Me lel eltero leet

Matmen Tackle North Carolina In Friday Opener

By STEVE GUILD

The Washington and Lee wrestling |

team will meet its first opponent, the
University of North Carolina, this
Friday at Chapel Hill, N. C.

The team, while it has good depth
this year and could easily fill any
place left vacant by injuries, is com-
posed mostly of juniors and sopho-
mores, and the team’s weakness will
probably lie in this. Both star wrest-
lers Danny Dyer and Drew Danko left
last year. Dyer was the team’s
strength in the 137 lb. class, while
Danko was the team utility man, serv-
ing in practically any position he was
needed. Coach Dick Miller commented
that “with these two men on the
team last year, we could be assured
of two pins right off and that goes
a long way in winning a match.”

Even though the team is younger
this year, Miller feels no uneasiness
in placing what he calls the “two

 

eee short ohe whe herder efe se ale oe nee ole oe ote senders

IDEAL
BARBER SHOP

QUICK SERVICE

%
%

.
.
4
.
ie
a
re
.
.
a

 

‘
%
+
4
*
4
’
‘
4
%

best freshman prospects I have this
year” close to the starting lineup
with the expectation that they will
fill any of the vacant spots that
might appear. Ed Jensen from Bal-
timore, Md., and Herb Smith, a
Newport News boy, will probably
see action in the 137-157 classes,
although their definite positions
have not been decided yet. Dick
Albert, a sophomore from Tulsa,
Okla., seems to the Coach to be “the
upcoming utility man of the team.”

In the heavyweight position on this
year’s squad are Graham Fulton who
is the starter, backed up by Sam

 

 

 

Radio Hospital
*
Radio, TV, Phonograph
Sales and Service

*

HO 3-3531

 

 

 

 

 

There will be a meeting of all
those interested in winter track at

5 p.m. on Wednesday, Nov. 30, in For those extra pieces

 

 

Doremus Gym. of
FURNITURE
for your room
BROWN’S see our stock
CLEANING befece buying
a
— VARNER AND POLE
We call for

 

 

and deliver

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ROCKBRIDGE LAUNDRY |i

and
Dry Cleaners

Shirts Transparently Wrapped
for Freshness
*
AGENTS:

Fraternities, Dorms and Co-op

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

HO 3-2013 14 Randolph St.
VARSITY
BILLIARD
Green Valley Motel ACADEMY
One Mile North on :
U. S. Highway No. 11 Catering
To Students
LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA
HO 3-2195 Corner of

Washington and Jefferson

 

 

 

 

hehe ofe nfo ode oe vee nde oe ergo abe ee ofe ade fete ole ae er

 

 

 

 

Open a convenient student Checking account
TODAY

at

Rockbridge National Bank

Member Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation

 

 

 

Bloch, another sophomore, Miller
feels that this is probably the strong-
est position on the team right now and
hopes that they can make up for any
defecencies in some of the other slots.
At the other end of the roster is
Dave Montgomery in the 123 Ib. po- |
sition who equaled the team’s record
last year with a 7-2 tally.

Three sophomores who will not
start or be on the team the first few
weeks but are counted on to bolster
the squad in the coming season are
Bob Pagano, Tom Clements, and Jud
Babcock, who all have been out for
fall sports and have not had any spe-

 

cific wrestling practice yet.

Captain and senior Sandy Mer-
sereau is expected to bring pins
again this year as he did last sea-
son in the 147 Ib. class. Kent Frazier,
who will not be in the first several
meeis because of his upcoming
Rhodes Scholarship tests, should be
in line sometime before Christmas
in one of the heavier weight classes.

The schedule for the matmen this
year is about the same as last year’s
except for a few changes. The Gener-
als will wrestle Pfeiffer College on

(Continued on page 4)

 

 

 

The Southern Inn

Cordially invites you to make this your headquarters for good food
Here you get the best food for the most reasonable prices

Our S pecialties:

Steaks, Chicken, Country Ham, and the best sandwiches
in town

Meet your friends here

 

 

 

Best in the book for

 

era

Arar

 

 

fast frequent flights .

air travel...

 

    

 

AIRLINES

Piedmont Airlines
serves the Top of the South with

  

. offers connecting

____ service to all parts of the world. Call Piedmont
Airlines or your Travel Agent for reservations, information.

te CHICAGO

 

BRiston
JONnSO ON C
PORT

   

fel
HENDERSONV! it

 

 

 

 

  

 

   
 

{ NO,GLACIER

 
   
 
  

 

THE NEW ne rr AIR? r
: HOLE IN THE
White Top a See |
ade, Alaska bush pilot, from
Restaurant ees ae Oe
+ ee COULD FLY IN THIS SOUP!

  
 
 

GET IN,DOC, INA

A personal invitation LOnS PAR CAE

to the
Students

Try our delicious foods
Route 60 East

 

‘
5
_
a
.
¥
<
°
a
5
-
re
.
5
.
.
°
.
-
%
a
.
4
e
i.
.
a
5
‘
5
re
¥
le
le
°
-

 

*
4
4
4
*
4
*,
4
4
‘
%
4
4
‘
4
4
4
‘
4
4
4
4
4
‘
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
%
.
%

Tee eee he rorte he here ore nte rhe fo ate she

led ee ee eleeehehbbebee

  

STRAIGHT LINE, CLIFF

 
   

 
  

ST By THE

al AY DOWN- |
~ DRAFT!

s

   
 

 

     

 

Note: Tim knew a
glacier surface al-
ways chills the air
above it—causing a
down-draft.
—

 

 

 

Ser

 

;
j
—

 

WAYNESBORO,

PARKERSBURG
MARIETTA
eS ad

     
 

to NEW YORK

WASHINGTON “
STAUNTON
WARRISONBURG

      
 
 

NEWPORT NEWS-
CHARLOTTESVILLE iin

GREENSBORO

\
j
ee HIGH POINT
t FAYETTEVILLE

CHARLOTTE

PINEHURST
SOUTHERN PINES
ABERDEEN

 

GLACIER. NO. 4,
NOW — DOWN
THROUGH THE SouP!

For

So YOu
ACTUALLY
FIGURED OUT
WHERE YOu
ARE BY
DOWN-

BL DRAFTS! pd

HE'LL BE OKAy,
THANKS TO You,
YOu FLY WITH

A MAN WHO THINKS

 
 
 

BE WHY YOU SMOKE
VICEROY

viceROYS GOTIT...
AT BOTH ENDS!

GOT THE BLEND!

YourR HEAD!

HIMSELF! MUST

GOT
THE
FILTER...

THE FILTER,

€

 

© 1

— gotit..
at both er ends

  
   

50, BROWN & WILLIAMS(

  

GOT
THE
BLEND!

wT
IN TOBACCO CORP

 
 

 

 

Page 4

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

Galef Criticizes Grading System |

(Continued from page 2)

The University’s academic require-
ments could then be scaled accord-
cording to this particular system.
This system might tend to raise the
overall average of the University,
since there is no provision for credits
that would result in the B and C
minus levels. However, since the
University at present does not pen-
alize a student for having an aver-
age that might be lower than his
report card grade might appear,
there is little need to do it in the
future.

In any case, the purpose of this
particular change is to provide in-
centive for work accomplished, and
not to offer further discouragement.
This should certainly be the purpose
of an institution devoted to both ex-
cellence and individual attention.

Perhaps this system would not be
the most feasible one for the Univer-
sity to follow. However, there might
be a method that would come closer
to equating a student’s record of
achievement with his report card
average. Some schools accomplish
this by using the method outlined
above. Others keep a factual record
of a student’s numerical average at

Coaches Corner
(Continued from page 3)

one of the states’ leading scorers
in Leo Anthony, who averaged 26
points a game last year. Included in
their starting five are Bill McCraw,
who stands 6’ 7” and Bob Newton at
6’ 6”. Norfolk W&M is predicted to
replace Bridgewater as the top Little
Eight team in Virginia.

Our work is cut out for us in our
first week of competition, but we
think we are ready. I hope that many
of you will come out and root for
the Generals of 1960-61.

COACH McHENRY

 

 

STANLEY WARNER

STATE

LEXINGTON,. VA.

 

 

NOW SHOWING

   

From the best-seller “The Cail Girl”
by Dr. Harold Greenwald

 

WED. through SAT.

      
  
     
     
   
    
   
   
     
     

  

JOSEPH E.LEVINE

presents

GINA
LOLLOBRIGIDA
Pierre
BRASSEUR
Marcello
MASTROIANNI
Melina
MERCOURI

Yves
MONTAND

WHERE THE

Hot WIND
Biows!

Directed by

JULES DASSIN

An M-G-M Release

 
 

 

 

 

 

LEAL EE EEE DEE

i

*

|
|
the end of each semester that he
has taken a certain course.

In any case, these plans accom-
plish one thing. They serve to curb
the apathy that often exists among
those students whose average “just
misses” the next grade level.

Matmen Show
Good Depth

(Continued from page 3)

 

Dec. 16, in a home meet, and North|
Carolina State has been added in
place of Wake Forest, who dropped
their wrestling program entirely last |
year.

Coach Miller thinks that the team’s
two hardest matches will be with
Franklin and Marshall, which they
take on in an away meet on Dec. 10,
and West Virginia University, another
away meet for the Generals on Feb.
16, 1961. These two schools have al-
ways caused considerable trouble for
the Blue and White, and this year
should be no exception, especially since
both are not home matches. The one
bright spot in the Franklin and Mar-
shall picture, however, is that the Dip-
lomats lost four of their best starters
from last year, and this should give
the W&L men an advantage.

As far as the rest of the schedule
is concerned, Miller isn’t making any
predictions. He learned last year that
this isn’t always the best thing to
do. He thought, as the rest of the
team did, that New York University
would be one of the tough ones on
the schedule. As it turned out the
Generals beat them by a sizeable
year.

 

 

TUES.-WED.

A Street Car
Named Desire

 

Marlon Brando
Vivien Leigh

 

“Your Campus Neighbors”

 

 

 

 

* e
. MYERS :
; HARDWARE ;
e th
$ COMPANY °
peeeeeeeeeoooeoooocoooes
LeeeeeeeTee eee hE
a a
e e 4 e
¢ White’s Music :
%
; Store :
= (Opposite State Theater) :
*
: +;
+ saa
: : Phonographs—Hi-Fi :
Expert Repair Service :
i k 5
- :
* 5 W. Nelson St. Lexington, Va. *
4

& HO 3-3522 %
: :
i ata alittle

 

i
* %
: Shirt Service as You Like it :
; Quality Cleaning and Pressing
: UNIVERSITY CLEANERS
‘ HO 3-3622 :
+ :
: = :
oe %
$ :
cs
t

seobebeotestetntntntoeoenentntntentetetoefetetete tees obente dete tetntntetetes oe etetetetetee

 

 

eer See ee

  

oe

STUDENTS ACCOUNTS INVITED HERE
Member F.D.I. C.

 

he “PFOPLES NATIONAL BANK >
< = é

 

 

eC

a

=
i =
.

%

¥,

      

One Act Play For Holidays:

Denouement ...
(Continued from page 2)

Now be careful with my car going
back.

SON: Sure, Mom, don’t worry. And
Dad, I’m sorry about your car. But
I get mine out of the shop Monday,
and I can send Mom’s back next
Sunday with Sandra. She can drive
now that they’ve found someone that
will insure her.

DAD: That’s wonderful. Well, bye.

(All embrace. Exit son. Little sister
begins turning the charm on father.
bitterness fades.)

CURTAIN.

 

Commerce Fraternity Sponsors AIESEC Program

(Continued from page 1) |
Students in Economic and Commer-
cial science, is beginning its fifth year
of operations in this country with the
outlook for expansion to the Washing-
ton and Lee campus. Last year over
2,000 students from some _ twenty
countries were exchanged including |
150 American students who were}
placed in summer business positions |
in foreign countries. An equivalent |
number of foreign trainees came to |
the United States under the AIESEC |
exchange and were employed by such |
companies as I1.B.M., New York Life|
Insurance Company, Allis Chalmers,
The Schering Corporation and others.

 

 

AIESEC is an international stu-
dent administered commercial train-

eeship and educational exchange
program. AIESEC  student-faculty
committees solicit paid commercial
traineeships for foreign students.
These traineeships which are secured
by the students of each participating
college or university are exchanged
on a one-for-one basis at an annual
international congress in March.
Thus if one University secures 10
traineeships for foreign students,
10 students from that school are en-
titled to go abroad as ATIESEC
tarinees.

The purpose of AIESEC is to further
international understanding and edu-
cation—especially among future lead-

Ciardi Talks On
Modern Chaos

(Continued from page 1)

John Ciardi and William Humphrey.

Thursday, Dec. 1—William Hum-
phrey speaks in duPont Auditorium
on “Figures in a Landscape.”

Friday, Dec. 2—Humphrey returns to
duPont for a lecture on “Operatic.”

Wednesday, Dec. 7—Merle Miller
in duPont for a lecture entitled “Bach
on the Musical Saw.”

Friday, Dec. 9—Coffee in Evans Din-
ing Hall honoring Miller.

Appearance at 8:15

All duPont apeparances are sche-
duled for 8:15 and are by ticket only.
Tickets can be picked up in Dr. Bor-

McHenry Counts On Sophomores

continue last year’s pattern, they may approach a break-even | other recreational activities fo rits

seaso
court

The card includes two newcomers to the W&L schedule—
Norfolk division of William and Mary and Franklin and Mar-

shall

ers of the world and business com-| den’s office in Payne Hall.
munity. Each host country arranges

| educational tours social outings and

 

 

(Continued from page 3)

LEXINGTON
CLEANERS

Phone HO 3-3813 108 S. Jefferson

n. Last campaign, the Generals won seven of eight home- | ATESEC guests. For example, during
battles, but they didn’t win a one on the road eS

’ . |in this country visited Washington
and were addressed by Dr. Henry
Wallich of the President’s Council of

Economic Advisers.

 

 

 

 

 

College. Old traditionals, Richmond and Virginia, remain. COOHHOHOOHHSSHSSSHSSHOSSHHOTSSSSSSOSSSSOSSOHHSSHOOOOE

FS, GD DD. GB. Be Be Bs Bie Be He Be Be Me Hie shia ie ihe she aha ihe ate a ee
Mgt Ot GE NGS NGS OG MS Gt Mat Gt gt Mt Mt Mee OES AS Mg OR TO ee SS eS ee ee

 

 

 

 

 

 

e
1960-61 Basketball Schedule ° ’ °
°
Dec. 1—Bridgewater .................. There Jan 9—Hampden-Sydney............. Here Z Ted S Steak House 2
Dec. 3—Norfolk W&M .............. Here Jan. 11—Bridgewater .................. Here | ® e
Dec. 5—Univ. of Richmond.....There Feb. 4—Hampden-Sydney......... There 3 « 2
Dec. 8—Randolph-Macon ........ There Feb. 8—Randolph-Macon.......... Here ; Finest Foods e
Dec. 10— Univ of the South.....Here Feb. 11—Lynchburg_................ There |e = ;
Dec. 13—Emory and Henry........ Here Feb. 13—Virginia ...................000 Here ; Choice Meats e
Dec. 15—Catholic Univ............. There Feb. 15—Roanoke ................... There | e ;
Dec. 16—Franklin & Marshall.There Feb. 17—Catholic Univ. ............ Here z :
Jan. 7—Univ. of Chattanooga...Here | Feb. 2i—Emory and Henry......There | e ke 3
° @
se oentrteoeotfeleoeoenbntnteteoeoesteteobeobenterteteoeobebetetedeteoteteseodetetetetedeseoteteteteototeted | @ °
; SUNDAY DINNERS :
We Feature ° .
*
S E A L = E S _ ° Route 60 Buena Vista ;

e
: :
= 2
Dairy Products COOCOOHOSOSSEOSOOHSESESESSSHOSSSSSHSSOHSIOSSOOEOCES

“To get the best get Sealtest”

over twenty different products in addition to
delicious Sealtest ice cream

Block and Crushed Ice

Your favorite mixes—Ice Cold

*
Maple-Rock Distributors, Inc.

Phone HO 3-2168

 

Me Me Bo Be Be Me Be Be Ba Be Bs Ba Ye Me Be Ba te Ba te Ba ta tte te Be a te Be te te Be Be te Bate
ss 6 ss se 8 S's S'S S'S 8 OO SS ST ee ee ee ee ee

 

 

 

Filters for
flavor

SA Face

—finest flavor by far!

THE TAREYTON ies

Tareyton has the taste—

Dual Filter

does

   

it!

 

‘
oe
ne

NEW DUAL FILTER 7 ad
Product of ae ean Sebaceo Company an is our middle name ©A. 7. Co.

 

 

 

The First National Bank

of Lexington
a
has special checking accounts

for students

 

 

  
    

HERE’S HOW THE DUAL FILTER DOES IT:

1. It combines a unique inner filter of ACTIVATED CHARCOAL
definitely proved to make the taste of a cigarette mild and smooth...

2. with a pure white outer filter. Together they select and balance
the flavor elements in the smoke. Tareyton’s flavor-balance gives
you the best taste of the best tobaccos.

reyton
FRIDAY
Edition

Che Ring-tum Phi

Washington and Lee Semi-Weekly Newspaper

FRIDAY
Edition

 

Volume LXI

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA, DECEMBER 2, 1960

Number 22

 

31 Newsmen
Are Expected
For Seminar

By PETER ALFORD
Staff Reporter

Thirty-one newsmen are expected
to attend the Law Seminar for Jour- |

nalists, sponsored by the Lee Memor-

ial Journalism Foundation in cooper- ||

ation with the Washington and Lee
University School of Law. The Seminar
will be held Saturday.

A spokesman for the Planning Com-
mittee said, “the seminar will pre-
sumably be of benefit to newspapers,
the courts, legal profession, the cause
of continuing education, and the gen-
eral public as ultimate beneficiary.”
The committee is composed of Mr.
James A. Eichner, of the City of Rich-
mond law department; Dean Charles
P. Light and Prof. O. W. Riegel of
the W&L Law and Journalism schools
respectively.

In a memorandum to the speakers
and members of the instructional staff
of the seminar, the objectives of the
convocation are set forth as “to pro-
vide editors and writers with back-
ground on doctrines, organization, vo-
cabulary and procedures of the law
and to provide guidance in legal re-
porting for the purpose of promoting
the accuracy, clarity, and interest of
writing and editing on legal topics.”

All morning sessions meet in the
Journalism Lecture Room in Payne
Hall. All afternoon session meet in
the East Lecture Room of Tucker
Hall.

The Schedule is as follows:
..2:15—Law of Evidence: Prof. C. V.
Laughlin.
3:00—Conflict of Law: Mr. Ritz.
3:20—Coffee Break.

3:30—Relations between courts and
legislatures: Dean Light and Mr.
Eichner.

4:15—The records of a case and
legal sources: Mr. Eichner.

After an informal discussion with
Seminar instructors and dinner in the
Evans Dining Hall, a film on criminal
proceedings will be shown at 7:30 in
the Journalism Lecture Room. A re-
ception for the members and instruc-
tional staff at 9 p.m. will end the sem-
inar.

 

U.S. Affairs Conference

Two Washington and Lee Univer-
sity students are representing the
school at the Twelfth Annual Confer-
ence on United States Affairs being
held today and tomorrow at West
Point.

The students are James Vann, a
Phi Psi senior from Birmingham, Ala.,
and Pierce Hardwick, a Beta junior
from Akron, Ohio. Both Vann and
Hardwick are attending the conven-
tion under the auspices of the joint
sponsorship of the W&L political sci-
ence department and the W&L Re-
serve Officers Training Corps (ROTC).

Major E. J. Roxbury, professor of
military science and tactics of the
W&L unit, said today that headlining
the convention will be the keynote
address given by Governor Nelson

Rockefeller.

 

Sam W.

   
 
   
  

 

1960 “Fancy Dress Ball” Vice Presidents
Announced Today By Don Pardington

£

A
i
1

   

Members of the cas im ost are gi left to right: Steve Danzansky, president Sen Pardington, pe Apele-

baum; standing, Ned Ames, Chip Day and Don Rhinestone. Not present was George Birdsong.

—Photo by Rowe

 

Hard-Hitting Linebacker Honored

Terry Fohs Is Elected 3rd Center
On ’60 Little All- America Squad

Terry Fohs, five-foot seven-inch
linebacker for the unbeaten Generals,
was named to the center position on
the Little-American third team Thurs-
day.

Fohs, a junior majoring in engineer-
ing, won wide renown during the
season for his hard-hitting tackles.
After the Randolph-Macon game, the
Richmond Times-Dispatch passed over
the Big Five stars and named Fohs
Player of the Week. His picture and
stories about him have been run in
major papers throughout the country.
Weighing in at a slight 145 pounds,
his toughness in the linebacker spot
is unusual for so small a man.

The pride of Coach Mac’s defensive
unit, Fohs was in on 154 tackles this
season. His best days were against
Johns Hopkins University, 23 tackles;
Hampden-Sydney, 20 tackles; and
Washington University, 26 tackles.

Terry commented that he is proud
of the honor, but said, “As much
credit goes to Frank Parsons as to me.”
The W&lL information service pre-
pared a special 12-page booklet on
Fohs which was distributed to news-
papers, radio and TV units.

_Fohs says that he still plans to

W&L student body treasurer Sam Rayder

 

 

transfer to Carnegie Tech next year,
but he is not sure whether he will
play football for them. Many peo-
ple would like to see Fohs play a
fourth year of football for the re-
vived Generals.

Coach McLaughlin said, “It is quite
an honor for Terry. He is certainly
an inspiration to anybody who wants
to play football, and especially for the
guy who lacks size. I’m very pleased
that he made it.”

Coach McLaughlin also pointed out
that far more colleges play small foot-
ball than do large. He also noted that

the Little All-America first team cen-| (
ter from Ohio University was drafted |:

by the pros. O. U. also has an enroll-
ment of 8,000 students.

Fohs is a graduate of Baltimore

Polytechnic Institute where he was a
star halfback and linebacker. Be-
cause of his size, no school would
consider him for an athletic scholar-
ship.

Coach Donald Seibert of Dickin-
son College made this comment on
Fohs: “Fohs has demonstrated his
ability, especially as a defensive line-
backer, the last two seasons against

(Continued on page 4)

 

  
   
 

tie

Little All- American Fohs

fF; American Studies, and Dr.
s| Pusey, IJ, professor of German and

By An

News

Applebaum, George Birdsong
Day.

*

dy Nea
Editor

The six vice-presidents for this year’s Fancy Dress Ball
* have been announced by Don Partington, president of the
dance set. The six men are Ned Ames, Don Rhinesmith, James

, Steve Danzansky, and Chip

Ned Ames, a Delt senior from Accomac, Va., is editor of

 

Wm. Humphrey

\Presents Fourth
Glasgow Lecture

The fourth in the series of lectures
on “The American Writer and His

| Public” will be presented tonight by
_%| contemporary novelist
* | Humphrey.

William A.

Mr. Humphrey who last evening
defended description (see story page
2) tonight will defend plot in novels
in a talk called “Operatic.”

The first of the three professional
writers appearing under the auspices
of Glasgow Endowment Fund, John
Ciardi, spoke Monday and Tuesday
evening of this week.

Miller Here Next

The concluding lecturer in the ser-
ies, TV-film screen writer Merle Mil-
ler will speak Thursday and Friday,
Dec. 8 and 9. His topic will be “The
Night Nobody Looked” and “Bach
on the Musical Saw.”

The lecturers are being held in
the Fine Arts auditorium of duPont
Hall and all students are urged to
attend. Dr. Ross Borden, chairman
of the committee responsible for
bringing these talented men to the
campus said Thursday that “The
attendance of students has been
very good.”

The Glasgow Endowment Fund was

| established by the late Arthur Graham

Glasgow, a distinguished engineer, who
bequeathed a generous sum to the

.| university to promote “the art of ex-

pression by pen and tongue.” The pro-
gram was inaugurated in the 1958-59
school year.

Members of the Glasgow Endowment
Committee are Dr. Borden, Prof. J. P.
Davis of the journalism school, Dr.
Marshall W. Fishwick professor of
ww. MW.

Dean of the College.

National Prominence

All three of the writers have attained
national prominence. Mr. Ciardi is
author of “39 Poems” and the trans-
lator of Dante’s Inferno. Mr. Hum-
phrey is author of Home From the

‘ Hill, a number of short stories and

essays and is currently writing another
novel. Mr. Miller wrote the scripts of
“The Rains of Ranchipur” and “Kings
Go Forth” and is the author of That
Winter among other works.

 

*of the Calyx and editor of the Fresh-
man Hanbdook. He is a member of the
Student Service Society, “13” Club,
and the Assimilation Committee. He
has participated in cross-country,
track, and rifle. He is also a fraterni-
ty officer and has been a member of
the Ring-tum Phi Staff.

Don Rhinesmith, a Phi Gam senior
from Williamsburg, Va., is a Dean’s
List student, member of the Student
Service Society and a Dorm Coun-
ciler.

George Birdsong, from Suffolk, Va.,
is an SAE senior. He is on the Dean’s
List, a member of the Assimilation
Committee, Glee Club, and Interna-
tional Relations Club.

Steve Danzansky, a ZBT senior from
Washington, D.C., is SWMSFC direc-
tor, on the Dean’s List, Fraternity Of-
ficer, and Cheerleader.

Chip Day, a Phi Gam junior from
North Plainsfield, N. J., is a member
of the football, track and swimming
teams.

Jim Applebaum, a PEP junior from
Flushing, N. Y., is the business man-
ager of Shenandoah and Glee Club
promotion director.

This year’s Fancy Dress figure will
deal with’ -a event in the Court of
King James. Shortly after his ascension
to the throne in 1603, the playwrights
and players were returned to Royal
favor. King James had Shakespeare
and his players appear before him
and elevated them to the positions of
Knights of the Chamber Extraordinary.
It is around this incident that the
figure is based.

The gym will be decorated like the
famed Globe Theatre in England. In-
cluded in the decorations will be a
Royal Box for the king. Also featured
will be balconies, columns, a_ raised
stage, and a workable curtain. The
false ceiling will be absent. Instead,
the flags of the various houses of
English nobility will be draped over
the ceiling, adding more color and ef-
fect.

Dr. Flournoy

The figure will be part of the de-
piction of the actual Court with Dr.
Fitzgerald Flournoy announcing. The
John Graham Brass Choir will play
during the procession.

The participants in the figure will

represent characters from six of
Shakespeare’s famous plays: “Hamlet,”
“King Lear,” “Romeo and Juilet,”

“Anthony and Cleopatra,” “Henry IV,”
and “Julius Caesar.” The vice-presi-
dents and their dates will represent
the main characters from these plays.
The other participants in the figure
will follow each vice-president.

These plays were chosen because of

 

Lexington’s cigar-smoking Sam W.
Rayder has spent more time in ex-
tra-curricular activities than any
Washington and Lee University stu-

| dent—but he’s been at it for 30 years.

The 57-year-old vice president and
trust officer of the Rockbridge Na-
tional Bank here puts in his time in
the all-important post of Washington
nd Lee student body treasurer. In
this capacity he direcily supervises the
expenditure of all student funds at
the university.

Rayder, known as “Sam” by his fel-
low townspeople and “Mr. Rayder”
by Washington and Lee students, con-
stantly consults with student body of-
ficers and the student editors of cam-
pus publications about financial mat-

 

| ters. His modernly-designed office on

the first floor of the Rockbridge Bank

| Building on Lex:ngton’s Main Street
i ‘s seldom without a student visitor.

Unpaid and often not thanked for

i his efforts, Rayder started on his fi-
| nane'al whirl with Washington and Lee
| wh'le he was a student here. He was
| the first and only student to serve as
| student body treasurer.
| post his senior year in 1930-31, and

He held this

he’s served ever since.
For 25 years, Rayder carried the dual

 

 

responsibility of the administration of
student body funds and the keeping
of books for the then 14 social frater-
nities on campus. He retired as the
fraternities’ financial adviser in 1955
when he was named to his present
position at the bank. He still serves as
an advisor for his own Sigma Chi,
however.

The most time-consuming portion
of the student body treasurer’s job is
the supervision of funds for campus
publications. Rayder handles the bud-
gets for the Washington and Lee
yearbook, the quarterly student humor
magazine and the bi-weekly Ring-tum
Phi, student newspaper.

Born in the little Arkansas town of
Watson, Rayder came to Lexington in
1924 as a freshman at Washington
and Lee. That same year he took a job
at the small Rockbridge Bank. He
obtained his law degree from the uni-
versity in 1930.

The banker’s work with the student
body funds literally has caused him
to have his fingers in every pie. He
was on committees that furnished the
12-room Student Union on campus,
bought shells for crew, and selected
seats of the present Troubadour
Theater among other things.

Rayder Has Long History At W&L

Along with the routine bookkeeping
of such a post, Rader has added the
job of broker. He invests student
funds whenever possible but always
being careful to avoid stock market
ventures.

Besides being an active layman in
Lexington’s First Presbyterian Church,
Rayder has found time during the
past 30 years to collect antique autos.
At one point he had amassed a total
of six old cars. Commercially, his in-
terest in cars led him to the presi-
dency of the Rockbridge Motor Com-
pany, a local dealership.

Son at W&L

Some of his active interest in Wash-
ington and Lee student affairs has
rubbed off on his family—at least Sam
W. Rayder, Jr. His 18-year-old son
is a freshman this year at his father’s
alma mater. Rayder also has two
daughters.

Conversation is an avocation of this
jovial banker. He is a frequent visitor
to the lunch counter of one of Lex-
ington’s most centrally-located drug
stores. He'll talk banking, cars, poli-
tics, sports or what have you, but he
| seldom fails to mention Washington

‘and Lee.

 

the wide variety of costumes afforded
by the historical periods represented.

Costumes for the 1961 Fancy
Dress Ball will be on sale Dec. 5, 6,
7, and 8. They will be sold in the
Student Union from 9 a.m. to 5 p.m.

The costumes are coming from the
Hooker Howe Company in Haverhill,
Mass., through Oak Hall distributors
in Roanoke. This is the first time that
W&L has used this company which
usually outfits professional produc-
tions.

The costumes will cost the nor-
mal $18 per set for those couples
who do not have Dance Plans.
However, people with Dance Plans
receive the costumes for $16.

Students must be measured for the
following specifications: chest, waist,
height, hat size, and length of out-
seam. In addition they must provide
the following measurements for their
dates: bust, waist, hips, height, weight,
hat size, dress size and length of
skirt from waist to ankle. It is im-
portant that these measurements be
correct to ensure | proper fitting.

Notice

There will be a meeting of the
Troubadours Tuesday night at 7:30
in the Troub Theater. Anyone who
is interested in the Troubadours is
invited to attend.

 
Page 2

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

Che Ring-tum Phi

Friday Edition

Member of Virginia Intercollegiate Press Association

Fohs Is Credit To W&L

Look Magazine recently rated this university as a “good”
school. Many factors are involved in making a “good” school,
and not least among them is the ability of the university to draw
to it men of the caliber of the latest Five-Starred General, Little
All-American linebacker Terry Fohs.

Fohs is a credit to Washington and Lee and to the Univer-
sity’s non-subsidized football policy. No “big” school would
consider him for a football scholarship because of his size. They
overlooked the important factor. It is to Terry’s credit that he
would come here where he gets no reimbursement (other than
the dorm counselorship which he won on individual merit)
and the cost of education is high.

A man of quiet energy, Terry is as much a gentleman off
the playing field as he is a tiger on it. He is so quiet, in fact,
that he probably wouldn’t be noticed if he were not seen knock-
ing the ball from the hands of some 200-pound halfback. Not
that he is inactive. Fohs was a tri-captain of the unbeaten Gen-
erals, a dorm counselor and maintains a B- average in the tough
pre-engineering course. His great success stems from his sin-
cerity and modesty. But when he yells “Meet you on the bot-
tom” in a game, he means just that and it happened about 150
times during the 1960 season.

Since he is on a three-two engineering plan, Terry won’t be
playing with the Generals next season. Needless to say, his
leadership and talent will be greatly missed. G. B. Hi.

New ‘Silent Generation’
Replacin g M odern Beatniks

By VICTOR LASSETER

 

 

of life to worry over the beatnik’s

Friday Columnist

Since the turn of this century each
new generation of American youth
has been placed into socio-intellectual
catalogue by the American public. This
tendency has per-
sisted, and is indic-
ative of the need to
identify with a
group, the need to
characterize the
thought of each
new generation, and
of the American
tradition of glam-
orizing its youth.

Thus the gener-
ation who grew up
on Henry James,
with their Victorian belief in progress
and their high collars and low skirts,
could be called the genteel generation.
Thrown into the First World War this
generation emerged as the disillusion-
ed, cynical, lost generation. With the
Peace of Paris and the new League of
Nations America returned to nor-
maley and prosperity. The emigres
returned from Paris and were in turn
replaced by the jazz generation of the
roaring twenties. If this generation
worried about war, depression, and
the break down of international order,
it tempered its worry with bathtub
gin and the Charleston.

W. W. Il Shattered Jazz Generation

The rise of militant nationalism
and the outbreak of World War I
shattered the dream-land of the jazz
generation and produced the begin-
nings of a generation of protest, non-
conformity, and frustration. The beat
generation emerged under the lead-
ership of Jack Kerouac, led anti-
nuclear test demonstrations, read
avante-garde poetry, and issued taunt
after taunt to the the outside world of
middle-class America.

ee es

 

Lasseter

extreme non-conformity and protest
soon captured the imagination of those
very elements of society which the
movement itself attacked. Look and
McCall’s ran feature articles on this
new phenomenon. Mothers of college
students became worried, and the col-
leges held seminars: “Should your
child become a beatnik?” Teenagers,
satisfying themselves with the hood-
lum aspect of the beat generation,
added the words “cool,” “hip,” and
“pad” to their vocabularies. Soon every
literate American became familiar with
the paraphernalia of the generation.
The beard became the symbol of the
rebel, and even the Scheweppes man
and the Mennonite farmer joined the
ranks of protest.

Never Got Off Ground

Despite the efforts of Kerouac, Corso,
and Ginsberg, the beat generation
never got off the ground. Ginsberg
and Corso failed to produce a near
Whitmanesque poetry; Kerouac ended
his period of rebellion by writing for
Escapade. Although Americans were
fascinated by the beat generation as
a cultural phenomenon they feared it
as a radical threat to normalcy, and
the police closed up the coffee houses.
The beat generation won the adher-
ence of numerous unknown artists
and writers, but the college students,
usually a dependable source of radi-
calism and protest, were too deeply
entrenched in their own normal way

challenge: “Do you let Time magazine
run your emotional life?”

The beat generation was too diverse
a movement to last. Comprised of
hoodlums, poets, artists, socialists,
dope-addicts, and teenagers, the new
movement accomplished only two
things: it enriched the American vo-
cabulary and provided a new symbol-
ism for Bohemia. The voice of this
generation was one of violent, exter-
nal protest. But a century of this
same type of protest had not prevent-
ed a depression, two major wars, ram-
pant nationalsim, bourgeois decadence,
or the acceptance of nuclear warfare.

New Generation Dulled by War

The generation of the sixties, its |

 

Ciardi Sees Coufusion In Poetry;

Novelist Defends Land

By GEORGE HONTS
Managing Editor
Contemporary novelist William A.
Humphrey said Thursday that des-
cription in novels was too often just

“purple passages of landscape.”

In a special interview for the Ring-
tum Phi, Mr. Humphrey labeled des-
cription and plot as the two most de-
spised or unpopular elements in a
novel, for both the serious writer
and the serious reader. He went on
to say, however, that he would de-
fend both of these elements, and his
defense of description composed a large
part of his lecture last evening. Tonight
he will defend plot.

Mr. Humphrey, author of Home
From the Hill, declared that descrip-
tion did have a place in the novel,
but, he admitted, that one must be
careful in dealing with the subject
in writing. “Novels,” he said, “are
about people and not shrubbery. Peo-
ple want to read a story, not a place.”

|

Three Defenses

Landscape, and thus description,
can be justified when it ceases to be
ground, he continued. There are three
defenses that Mr. Humphrey takes.
First, landscape is useful when it helps
make the character more real. Second,
it is desirable when it helps create
emotions or states of being, and, third,
landscape itself can often become a
character as it did, Mr. Humphrey says,
in Thomas Hardy’s Return to the
Native.

 

Mr. Humphrey described himself as
a “rolling stone.” He indicated that he |
and Mrs. Humphrey, who is along on |
his visit to Washington and Lee, may |
go to Italy for a year or so to live)
very soon. Mr. Humphrey attended |
S.M.LU. and the University of Texas. |
From 1949 until 1958 he taught at!
Bard College in New York. The fol- |
lowing 15 months were spent in Eu- |
rope, but he and his wife returned to
be with their daughter who was then |
in her senior year in high school. She |
is now a student at Bard College.

When asked if he felt the “confusion” |
that Ciardi says the poets are now
experiencing is prevelant in novel- |
writing, Mr. Humphrey commented |
that “all arts are in some state of|
flux.” Apparently they have always

 

| been thus. The 1920’s, he said, was a; dowment Fund lecturers, poet, editor

period of experimental writing and it'

scape, Plot

 

Poet John Ciardi, Novelist William Humphrey, and Dr. A. R. Borden Confer in Dining Hall.

more ferment in the prose writings.

The group of serious readers has
grown over the past few years, he
feels, due primarily to the introduc-
tion of serious reading matter in
paperback editions. Serious readers,
however, are still few and Mr. Hum-
phrey seems to dismiss the non-serious

tions. Witty and intelligent, he then
discussed “jaunts off into meaningless-
ness” such as the Beats, and said
they would disappear.

Complacency Gone

Also commenting on Hemingway, he
declared that most of the GI’s in

hopes dulled by the prospect of one! produced some great novels. It is al-
last war, turned away from external | ways difficult, he added, for artists to
protest and emerged as the silent gen- | find meaning in contemporary life. The

 

eration. This new inwardness would ;

novel, he feels, is not in so much of,

not allow them to fight a Spanish-| a ferment as is poetry. Perhaps, he

(Continued on page 4)

said, it would be well if there were

World War II died “Hemingway
deaths” with a wise-crack. The men
of World War II were not shocked by
the horrors of wars as their pre-
decessors in World War I had been.
Why? Mr. Ciardi explained that the
Victorian complacency of the 19th
Century began to break down at the
close of the century. World War I
gave this complacency another hard
knock, indeed, it seems to have killed
it,

reader readily.

Young Talent

Mr. Humphrey stated that there is an
abundance of young, talented writers
in America today. One reason for the
lack of ferment is that there is no one
subject matter which a writer can
seize and appeal to the mass of readers
in a manner such as Hemmingway did
with Farewell To Arms. A great many
people experienced war as Heming-
way wrote about it, but the subject of
World War II has been fairly thorough-| The 20th Century poet is still search-
ly exploited, Mr. Humphrey said. ing for a replacement for dead com-

The first of the three Glasgow En-| placency. Mr. Ciardi continued by
saying the poet refuses much before
and professor, John Ciardi concluded! finding something meaningful. Poets
his lectures Tuesday evening with a| today are cleaning house and chang-
hard-hitting talk called “The Next) ing their point of view. He showed
Time I Meet Confusion.” the change in two quotations, one

Mr. Ciardi began by saying he| from Auden and one from Shelley.
couldn’t bear to live in a community | Shelley wrote “Poets are the un-
which has more answers than ques- acknowledged legislators of the world.”

Search for Replacement

 

 

 

But Auden writes in the 20th Cen-
tury, “Poetry makes nothing happen.”

Among other things, the poet has
turned to the impact of the unpredict-
able as an important theme in writing.
To this many readers have developed
a mental block. The devil today, Mr.
Ciardi assured his audience, is dressed
in a Brooks Brothers suit, speaks Ivy
League slang and has a Public Rlea-
tions contract in his pocket.

The poet must now face these
pleasant evils. And if there is any-
thing a poet can’t stand, Mr. Ciardi
said, it is a hypocrite, especially a
smooth hypocrite. So the contemporary
poet is angry, and in his anger he
often wants to insult the world.

Whether the poets aim is to insult
the world or to give it some truth
at last, he has changed his tactics.
Gone are “tacked-on morals” and
meaning in poetry. Instead of mean-
ing, the poet now presents an ex-
perience, and meanings are only hinted
at in the poem. Also, the experiences
have taken on a moral significance.
Mr. Ciardi concluded by stating that
it is not necessary to worry about
finding a meaning in a poem, for after
all, “A man is what he does with his
intentions.”

 

 

Downtown Oxford Has Activity
That Equals Any American City

By JON McLIN
Friday Columnist

Wadham College, Oxford, Nov. 20—
“Oxford—mighty fine place, well
seated, and cheap entertainment.”
This comment, made by Pepys in
his diary in 1668, is apropriate enough
even today.

The city of Oxford is something
deserving consideration apart from
the University, despite the fact that
the two are so closely related. This
is readily suggested by the fact that
10,000 or so students here comprise

| only about one-sixth of the city’s
What had begun as a movement of |

population.

The visitor to Oxford who comes
expecting to find the quiet, slow-
moving pace of life suggested by the
term “the ivory tower” will be quick-
ly disillusioned. Downtown Oxford
has a hustle and bustle hardly sec-
ond to any American city and great-
ly aggravated by the inadequacy of
the centuries-old streets to the prob-
lems of modern traffic. Much of the
traffic burden results from indus-
trial Oxford’s activities in the print-
ing and—alas!—automobile industries.

Proponents of the construction of
a relief road to solve Oxford’s traf-
fic problems have pursued their
goal fervently for the last few years;
to date, however, their efforts have
been foiled by the poetic souls who
are unwilling to despoil the beauty
of Christ Church meadow by build-
ing a road across it.

Culturally, the presence of the
University affords advantages which
are perhaps not equalled in any other
city of equal size. The city’s two
theatres provide continuous fare of
good entertainment at cheap prices:
the best seats in the house usually
sell for about $1.35.

As an example of the kind of en-
tertainment that is offered, dur-
ing the coming week Giraudoux’s
“The Madwoman of Chaillet” is
being produced by a_ university
group, while the other theatre is
presenting the famous old Vic

 

Company of London in “Macbeth,”
Shaw’s “Saint Joan,” and Wild’s
“The Importance of Being Earnest.”
In past weeks, highlights includ-
ed The Royal Ballet for two weeks
and the pre-London production of
“Toys in the Attic.”

Music and art lovers enjoy similar
extensive opportunities; and, in ad-
dition, the proximity of London—
only an hour’s train ride away—
opens a world of new cultural op-
portunities.

Relations between students and
residents of the city of Oxford are
nowad*ys quite good, suggesting
none of the animosities of the “Town
vs. Gown” riots of medieval times.
Lest the difference between students
and “townies” be completely oblit-
erated, however, the disparity be-
tween Oxford English and the Cock-
ney-like Oxford city accent exists as

a reminder.
*

No account of the city of Oxford
could fail to mention some of the
characteristics of the individual col-
leges which help to comprise the
downtown part of the city, as well
as the University itself.

Tradition demands that the first
mention in such _ considerations
should be given to Christ Church
(the word college is not part of its
name), known to its members as
“The House”’(Aedes Christi). It is

* *

Have Typewriter, Will Write

 

By THORN CRAVEN

ed more Prime Ministers than any : A
Friday Columnist

other British college. Its academic rank,
however, has fallen to a place near
the bottom of the list of Oxford
colleges.

There was a time when Christ
Church had only 101 students, and
Great Tom, its huge bell, can still
be heard tolling 101 strokes at five
minutes past nine each evening to
summon them home. Its chapel,
proudly designated “Cathedral,” is
among the most beautiful sights in
Oxford.

The distinction of being the old-
est college is claimed by three of
them—Merton, University College
and Balliol. Each is somewhat
justified, as University was the first
to be endowed, Balliol had the
first fixed locality (1260), and Mer-
ton the earliest statutes (1264).

Haven for West Pointers in Ox-
ford—and currently the college of
the inimitable Pete Dawkins—is

While most of you went to New
York last week I hustled home and
set a new record for myself—twenty
straight New Yorkless Thanksgivings.
It might be of
some interest that
I held the previous
record of nineteen
straight, set in the
fall of 1959.

Since all the col-
lege crowd from
my hometown was
running around my
hometown, and not
New York, I put
my ear to the
ground to see what
was happening on other campi. I got
stepped on four times, and as I was

Che Ring-tum Phi

Friday Edition

 

Craven

 

 

 

Craven ‘Vacations’ At Home;

Is Asked About W&L Football

getting up someone put a cigarette in
my upper ear, obviously mistaking it
for an ashtray.

But I did get around, and had the
recurring experience of being asked
the embarrassing question: “What's
happened to W&L football?” This
query was particularly embarrassing
for me after bragging long and loud
for two years that we have the worse
team of anybody. And being asked
this question so many times has
raised some questions about the sub-
ject in my own mind.

Of course I think that an undefeated
season is fine for a place like Yale,

| or even New Mexico State, but what's

|
|
|
|

|

 

happening ot our good old amateurism?
We've become professional amateurs.
All the football players were actually
wanting to win! I don’t mind it when
we manage to goof something up and
win one or two, but a whole season
full of nothing but wins shows that
somebody is trying. And it got pretty
tiresome.

 

Brasenose, or “B.N.C.” It was named
for an ancient, bronze, nose-shaped
door-knocker, which no longer hangs
on the college door.

One of the most interesting of
college emblems is the boar’s head
of Queen’s College (distinguished
from Queens’ College, Cambridge,
by the position of the apostrophe).

The Ring-tum Phi is published Tues-
day and Friday dyrin the college year. Look at what an undefeated team
t is printe e Journalism or- | ’ :
atory "Press. Washington and Lee Uni- | has cost us. I’m not speaking of money
versity. The mailing address is Box} (even though tickets skyrocketed to
99, Lexington, Va, : 1S
Entered as second class matter Sep- | o but of prestige. Virginia is so
tember 20, 1946 at the Post Office, Lex-| far ahead of us now that it will take
ington, Va., under the act of March) three full seasons to get to where they
oo. 6. |
resentative; | are, and who knows where U. Va.

National Advertising Re
ervice, Inc., | will be in 1965. They will have prob-

 

420 Madison Ave., New York, N.Y.

 

The National Advertisers
| ably hit sixty straight by then, and

 

still the largest and has the most pres-
tige of Oxford colleges, having produc-

The legend which accompanies the
emblem is that a scholar of the col-
lege was attacked by a wild boar
while strolling on Shotover Hill.

(Continued on page 4)

|
|

Editorial Board

Managing Editor...............
| Assistant

George
Managing Editor...................

te ae eee Roy Goodwin

Editor-in-Chief................ Nathan Simpson | we’l] still be piddling in the twenties
Business Managet.............. Huntley Biggs | jf a] goes well. We didn’t even try

to get in the race this year. Where

Honts | is the sense of intrastate competition?

(Continued on page 4)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  
 

 

 

LOOK LUCY WHY \] [ WHY NOT KEEP IT siMPLEY | |/THATS A WoNDERFUL\ “1 [ALL WANT |
Sous ANNE |! | ou wAve Fev FRENDS ex ||( ay To cevepeare™ | 4 [HAT O01 eer? A LecTOR |
THAVEN' 1) ji : |
A-PRESENT ON | LISTEN TO THE NNTH SYMPHONY. BEETOVENS BIRTHDAY: / 1 |ON HOW TO GIVE PARTIES! |
HOVEN'S K
; BIRTHDAY? . |

7"?

 

 

 

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

sia A ely

 

 

 

 

THE RING-TUM PHI

Page 3

 

The youthful Washington and Lee
basketball squad will open its home
schedule tomorrow night against Nor-
folk Division of William and Mary
at 8 at Doremus Gym.

Thursday night in their opening
game, the Generals bowed to Bridge-
water, 57-50, despite a strong come-
back late in the game.

The Generals, who are short on ex-
perience, had a case of opening game
jitters as Bridgewater jumped to a
32-17 halftime lead.

Bridgewater pushed its lead to
55-33, late in the second half, but

then the Generals settled down and
began a concentrated scoring effort.

Using a full court press to full
advantage, W&L poured in 17 points
while Bridgewater managed only two
in the game’s final minutes.

The Generals’ late surge was a com-
bined team effort as forwards Rodger
Fauber, Ken Kowalski, center John
McDowell, and guard Brett Thackston
all contributed key field goals.

Fauber topped the Generals’ scor-
ing with 14 points. Thackston had 11,
Kowalski, ten.

McDowell, 6-6 freshman center,

 

Generals’ Playmaker

 

   
   

 

Pia aan hee 08

Guard Brett Thackston Sets Up Play

ae Beata

Freshmen Triumph, 67-60
Late General Surge Falls Short As Bridgewater Posts

57-50 Win; Norfolk William and Mary Here Tomorrow

pulled down 14 rebounds to lead the
Generals in that department.

The Generals actually outshot
Bridgewater from the floor, 22-20; but
Bridgewater connected on 15 of 17
free throws to win.

In the first half the Generals made
only one of ten free throws, but hit
five of seven the second half for a
game percentage of 35.3.

Both W&L and Bridgewater excelled
on defense.

Bridgewater double-teamed Mc-

entertain the University of the South
here.

Before the season began the Gen-
erals had three problems—lack of ex-
perience, lack of height, and lack of
a definite scoring punch. The Generals
now have one game under their belts
but all three problems still are prob-
lems.

McDowell may be the solution to the
height problem.

The 6-6 center from Birmingham,
New York, looked well in his first

college start.

Coach Bob McHenry pushed Mc-
Dowell, the first skyscraper that he
has had in his three years at W&L,
into a starting berth by virtue of his
height.

This move seems to have paid off.
Although McDowell scored _ only
seven points against Bridgewater, he
moved well, sparkled on defense, and
controlled the boards.

Reserves that should see plenty of

action are 6-3 Steve Rutledge, 6-4
John Culley, 6-2 Bill Ide, and 6-1
Dave Grogan.

Rutledge may take over a start-
ing forward spot early. He has been
hampered by a dislocated finger in
pre-season practice, but he is a good
rebounder and has an excellent jump
shot.

Culley was the regular center of
the 1959-60 freshman team and Gro-
gan was the leading freshman scorer.

 

Dowell a good deal and forced the*
Generals to shoot mostly from the|
outside.

Kowalski and Fauber, the Generals’ |
main gunners, sank 15-30-foot jump |
shots while Thackston and McDowell |

scored from closer in.

The General defense shined in
hclding Bridgewater’s Jim Reedy,
L'ttle All-American candidate, to |
22 po nts, eight of which came from
the free throw line.

 

Coach Joe Lyles’ freshmen started
off cn the right foot as they slapped

the Bridgewater freshmen, 67-60, in)

a preliminary.

Gordon Taylor with 14 points and
Fred Ridolphi with 12 points paced the
Baby Generals’ attack.

Tomorrow’s game with Norfolk Di-
vision of William and Mary will be
the Generals’ first meeting with the
team that is slated to replace Bridge-
water as the Little Eight champions.

The Braves are led by Leo An-
thony, one of the state’s top basket-
ball scorers for the past three years.
If Anthony is his usual self tomor-
morrow, the Doremus Gym record of
40 points, which was set by Virginia’s
Buzzy Wilkinson in 1955, may fall.

But with the excellent job the
W&L defense did on Bridgewater’s
Reedy, Anthony will have a hard time
setting a new record.

The Braves are favored in tomor-
row’s clash because of Anthony and
greater experience, but the W&L home
court factor may prove too much.
The Generals won seven of their eight
home games—their only wins of the
season—last year.

The Generals have three games next
week.

Monday they meet traditional rival,
the University of Richmond at
Petersburg; Thursday they travel to
Randolph-Macon; and Saturday they

 

Swimmers Top Roanoke, 57-38, In Opening Meet;
Parker, Maynard, Jahncke Capture Two Firsts

Washington and Lee’s swimming
team continued last year’s practice of
winning meets as they defeated Roa-
noke College yesterday at Roanoke,
57-38.

It marked the opening of the sea-
son both for the Generals, and for
their coach, Norris Eastman, who took
over the squad this year from Athletic
Director Cy Twombly.

Eastman used all nineteen mem-
bers of his squad in the triumph in
Roanoke’s odd-sized 20-yard pool.

Co-captain Jim Parker captured
two first places by turning in win-
ning times in the 60-yd. and 100-yd.
freestyle events. His time in the first
was 31.2 seconds, while in the 100-yd.
event he turned in a time of 58 sec-
onds.

The General’s outstanding swimmer
for the past two seasons, Elliot May-
nard, had a succesful afternoon as he
won the 200-yd. butterfly and the

eeeeeeeoeooeoeeoooeoeoeeee
e *
Dodge and Dodge Dart$
and Lancer

America’s First Fine

ECONOMY CAR
*

Rockbridge Motor Co.
INC.

Phone HObart 3-3146

 

SSCSSSSSCSOSSSCSSSSSESE
SSRCSOSHSHSSHSCHSSCHOHSSHSOSTEOSSOHSEOESZOEOSOSEe

 

200-yd. breaststroke.

In the breaststroke, Maynard set a
new pool record at Roanoke, trimming
the old time a full eight seconds, His
winning time was 2:31.5.

The Generals’ third big gun of
the afternoon was sophomore Herb
Jahncke who won the 440-yd. free-
style and the 160-yd. individual
medley. His winning times were
5:34.5 and 2:00.6, respectively.

Robin Dunlap picked up the Gen-
erals’ other first place by winning
the 200-yd. backstroke in 2:36.8, while
teammate Mike Harris placed second.

Coach Eastman seemed pleased with

 

Spencer General
Tire

E. Nelson Street Extension

BEST IN TIRES
GENERAL

Best in Recapping

Kroft Tread

Compact Tires

SPOSHSSHHSHOSHHCHHCHHSHSSOOSCHOBESCOCOe

 

DIXON’S

ESSO SERVICE CENTER
ROUTE 60 EAST IN LEXINGTON

Across from the White Top Resturant
HO 3-4214

Wash, Grease, Lube, Road Service
Charge Accounts Welcome

SPSGOSeSGOHereeeseeoeceoos

his team’s performance, and empha-
sized that “it was a team victory.”

“I was especially pleased with the
times turned in by Maynard and
Jahneke,” said Eastman, “but the
season’s just beginning and I'm look-
ing for improvement from everyone.”

(Continued on page 4)

Lreoteseerererrenseeees

Baker
Ford Sales
BETTER DEALS

CLEARANCE
of lot for 1961 Models

 

Me rtortortertorte

NEW AND
USED CARS

Highway 60 East

roe he oho oho oho oho oh ae oe ae he she oh ae ae ake ae fe fe fe of oe oe oe fe oe ofe ole ok whe oe

%
se olete ode oe ofeofenfenteofe ode teste otesetenteoteoteodeteteeh

 

 

PiKAs Take Intramural Football Championship,
Place Seven On All-Offensive, Defensive Teams

Although the 5-Star General am
sity football team rated all the praise

| th's fall for a fine season’s perform- |

ance, the intramural football contest
st.ll remained one of the highlights of
the inter-fraternity competitive pro-
gram.

This year’s championship went to
the PiKa’s, who managed to go un-
defeated in seven games.

In accomplishing th’s task the
PiKAs rolled up 138 points while
only allowing their opposition a mere
18. Quite a feat for even Coach Lee
McLaughlin and his boys!

Led by All-Intramural quarterback
Jack Atwell, the PiKAs made _ the
final playoffs by defeating the Phi
Gams 13-6, the Phi Psis 7-0, the KAs
21-0, and the SAEs 39-0.

ALL-INTRAMURAL SQUADS
Offensive

 

RE. ..20:52 Peter Dauk
LE....0c Al Folcher ..........
QB........ Jack Atwell

 

RH........Steve Tomasek .................. PiKA |
tae TIME EOD scssisssionsss Lambdi Chi |
Defense |

C..a8. TI EE ois Phi Psi |
RE FS ascsieiccraes Beta

  
 
 

| Heywood Ball
Be Randy Butler
ER cacs Bob Walters

HB... Nick Smith ........
Hb....<:: Charlie Broll

SESE ES ESSE EHH eerie nevis sions:

 

%
= ROBERT E. LEE ¢
BARBERSHOP
David M. Moore
Proprietor
Tee ee oe ee See oe oe tere oe oe te te oe ne oho ote otenie

 

 

BROWN’S

The PiKA forward wall proved to
be a deciding factor in this display
of defensive, as well as offensive
strength, in that both lines averaged

The lightest man, Al Folcher, alone
accounted for nine touchdowns during
the season, with two more tallies com-
ing from pass interceptions while play-

a little better than 200 Ibs. per man.

     
 

 

Ue i
CLEANING
WORKS
We call for |
and deliver
HO 3-2013 14 Randolph St. ||

 

 

TETLOW
TV Service

221 S. Main HO 3-2841

 

 

 

: FOR ROOM RESERVATIONS—CALL HO 3-2151 3
° LEXINGTON MOTEL °
: Large Rooms—U. S. 11 By-Pass South .
. Free TV—Phones—Continental Breakfast .
° Only Motel in corporate limits of Lexington °
SCCOHSOHOOHSOSSOSOHHOHHSSHHESESOOSEHS SEH HOHE OOOO OEEEEE

 

 

 

 

—

 

 

 

THE COLLEGE INN

The Best Food in Town

American and Italian

Catering to the Students, Faculty,
and Towns People

OPEN SUNDAYS |

y

 

 

 

 

(Continued on page 4)

 

 

 

On Campus sc!

(Author of “I Was a Teen-age Dwarf” “The Many
Loves of Dobie Gillis’, etc.)

“THE INTELLIGENCE QUOTIENT OF
NED FUTTY”

Chloe McFeeters was a beautiful coed who majored in psychol-
ogy and worked in the I.Q. testing department of the University.
She worked there because she loved and admired intelligence
above all things. “I love and admire intelligence above all things”
is the way she put it.

Ned Futty, on the other hand, was a man who could take
intelligence or leave it alone. What he loved and admired above
all things was girls. “What I love and admire above all things
is girls’ is the way he put it.

One day Ned saw Chloe on campus and was instantly smitten.
“Excuse me, miss,” he said, tugging at his forelock. ‘Will you
marry me?”

She looked at his duck-tail haircut, his black-rimmed glasses,
his two-day beard, his grimy T-shirt, his tattered jeans, his de-
composing tennis shoes. ‘You are not unattractive,” she ad-
mitted, “but for me beauty is not enough. Intelligence is what
I’m looking for. Come to the I.Q. testing department with me.”

 

' ‘Vil sou Meaerv ye 7°"

“Of course, my tiger,” cried Ned and giggled and smote his
thigh and bit Chloe’s nape and scampered goatlike after her
to the 1.Q. testing department.

“First, I will test your vocabulary,” said Chloe,

“Be my guest,” laughed Ned and licked her palm,

“What does juxtaposition mean?”

“Beats me,” he confessed cheerfully and nibbled her knuckles,

“How about ineffable?”’

“Never heard of it,” guffawed Ned, plunging his face into
her clavicle.

“Furtive?”’

“With fur on?” said Ned doubtfully.

“Oh, Ned Futty,” said Chloe, ‘you are dumb. Consequently
I cannot be your girl because I love and admire intelligence
above all things.”

He flung himself on the floor and clasped her ankles. “But I
love you,” he cried in anguish. “Do not send me from you or
you will make the world a sunless place, full of dim and
fearful shapes.”

“Go,” she said coldly.

Lorn and mute, he made his painful way to the door. There
he stopped and lit a cigarette. Then he opened the door and
started away to his gray and grisly future.

“Stay!” called Chloe.

He turned.

“Was that,’ she asked, ‘“‘a Marlboro you just lit?”

“Yes,” he said.

“Then come to me and be my love,” eried Chloe joyously.

“You are not dumb, You are smart! Anybody is smart to smoke
Marlboro, the filter cigarette with the unfiltered taste which
comes to you in soft pack or flip-top box at prices all can afford
at tobacco counters, drugstores, groceries, restaurants and
trampoline courts all over America. Ned, lover, give me a

’

Marlboro and marry me.’
And they smoked happily ever after.

© 1960 Max Shulman
* * *

And if your taste runs to unfiltered cigarettes, you’re smart
to try Philip Morris—from the makers of Marlboro. We
especially recommend Philip Morris’s new king-size Com-
mander—long, mild, and leisurely. Have a Commander—
welcome aboard!
 

Page 4

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

New ‘Silent Generation’ Replaces

Dying Bohemian Beatnik Group

(Continued from page 2)

Civil War, party all night at Jay Gats-
by’s, or protest against nuclear-testing
in Washington Square. Henry James,
Hemingway, Fitzgerald, and Kerouac
were found to be inadequate. The new
generation of inwardness turned in-
stead to the whimsical irony of J. D.
Salinger.

Salinger’s Catcher in the Rye be-
came the guide-book of the silent
generation. As expressed by Salinger’s
Holden Caulfield, the new heroism
consists of a withdrawal, emotional in-
tegrity, compassion, and rejection of
committment. Holden Caulfield is non-
political, cares little about Washing-
ton or Moscow. Instead of external re-
volt, Holden turns to emotional in-
tegrity, waging war upon phonies,
phonies at his prep school, phonies
in New York, and phonies in Holly-
wood. He hates to “give them a phony
smile...It makes me so depressed
I go crazy.” Or the piano player at
Ernie’s in New York, who was “putting
all these dumb, show-offy ripples in
the high notes, and a lot of other very
tricky stuff that gives me a pain....”
And the newsreels: “Christ almighty.
There’s always a dumb horse-race,
and some chimpanzee riding a bicycle
with pants on.”

Rest Are Real People

The rest of Salinger’s world is com-
posed of real people. Holden Caulfield
has an infinite amount of compassion
for small children uncorrupted by
the adult world, and especially for
“good old Phoebe,” his little sister, and
for some nuns he meets in a bus sta-
tion. The Catcher in the Rye is a
whimsical young adult standing in a
field of rye watching some children
playing some game. “And I’m standing
on the edge of some crazy cliff. What
I have to do, I have to catch everybody
if they start to go over the cliff...
That’s all I'd do all day. I'd just be
the catcher in the rye and all. I

 

know its crazy, but that’s the only
thing I’d really like to be.”

There are no wild trips to the bull-
fights in Spain here, nor bathtub gin
parties or coffeehouses, only the new
heroism of moral acuteness and sensi-
tivity. To skeptics and elders this may
seem a stirle conformity, but if they
will read Salinger they will find it is
anything but that.

 

Craven Travels Home;

Asked About Football

(Continued from page 2)

Where is all that good old col-
lege humor now that we’re winning?
All those remarks on Saturday af-
ternoon turned into school spirit.
Instead of kicking the team while it
was down we actually came close to
carrying it around on our shoulders
like a group of KA pledges. Next
year, if this trend continues, we'll
probably start attacking the goal
posts and going to out-of-town
games.

I realize that this commentary might
be out of season but I’ve written it
anyway in hopes that the same illness
won’t strike us in the event of a win-
ning basketball team. And one symp-
tom has already appeared in the form
of that 6-6 player. The faculty com-
mittee, in the interest of the student
body, should bar that boy from com-
petition, and while on the subject
should limit all teams to no more than
five victories.

Let’s nip this thing in the bud and
get back to Bud.

 

There will be a general business
meeting of the U.C.A. at 7 p.m. Tuesday
night in the Student Union. Constitu-
tional changes will be voted upon and
decisions made about next year’s Uni-
versity Religious Conference. All vot-
ing members are urged to attend.

 

PiKAs Take Intramural Football Championship

(Continued from page 3)
ing defensive linebacker.

The other teams also making the
final playoff division were the Betas,
the Phi Kaps, the Delts as a result
of their victories in their respective
leagues.

In the finals, the PiKAs were vic-
torious as a result of their wins over
the Betas, 14-0; the Delts, 20-0; and

 

 

NLEY WA

STATE

LEXINGTON, VA.
|_NOBART 3-3424 |

 

 

Saturday (One Day ONLY)
SPECIAL Pre-Release SHOWING

‘DESERT ATTACK’
starring
JOHN MILLS
SYLVIA SYMS

 

SUN.-MON.-TUES.
COLUM PCTIRES pu
A WILLIAM GOETZ PRODUCTION

SONG

 

 

 

 

Lexington
Laundro Matic

209 S. Main
*

HAND IRONED
SHIRTS

Dry Cleaning

Service

for your convenience

the Phi Kaps 27-12.

In the final standings, the Betas
placed second as a result of their
wins over the Phi Kaps and the Delts.
The Phi Kaps placed third by defeating
the Delts.

In this year’s All-Intramural selec-
tions, made by the referees for the
I-M football games, the PiKAS dom-
inated the teams by placing seven men
on the two teams. The Law School
placed three men on the two teams,
while the Betas placed two on the de-
fensive squad. The Phi Kaps, Phi Psis,
Lambda Chis, and the Delts each
placed one man on the squad.

Don Lathrom, Heyward Ball, and
Steve Tomasek were also members
of last year’s All-Intramural squads.

eek ie

SUN.-MON.

 

 

 

 

on the
screen!

i

 

 

 

TOLLEY’S PHARMACY

Prescriptions Filled
Immediately

PURCHASE DRUGS
HO 3-2211

 

 

 

 

PEANUTS

IS CLOSED,
CHARLIE

   

 

 

THE SUBJECT

IT SIMPLY GOES WITHOUT
SAYING THAT YOU ARE AN
INFERIOR HUMAN BEING!

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

EIT GOES WITHOUT \ ||
SAVING, WH DID YOU
HAVE TO SAY IT?

 

 

 

 

IFC Songfest to Be Dec. 9

The annual IFC Song Fest will be
held in Lee Chapel on Friday, Dec.
9, at 8 p.m.

First prize, a handsome silver cup,
was taken by Sigma Nu in last year’s
competition. This year in addition to
that first prize, a fine second prize
will be awarded to the runner-up.

Don Partington will act as master
of ceremonies at the Fest, and the en-
trants will be judged by Dr. Borden,
Dr. Stephenson and Mr. Stewart.

Thus far, the response to the Fest has
been very good as there are now ten
entrants. Each vocal group will sing
two numbers, one of which may be a
fraternity song.

All are urged to attend the Song
Fest, and a most enjoyable evening is
assured to all comers.

 

Notices

There will be a discussion on “Dra-
ma and Its Place in Worship” Sunday
Dec. 4, at 2:30 p.m. in the Episcopal
Church. The discussion will be led by
members of the drama team of Union
Theological Seminary, Richmond. This
will be sponsored by the U.C.A.

Dr. T. P. Hughes, associate profes-
sor of history, will speak Sunday eve-
ning, 6:30 p.m., at the Wesley Foun-
dation. His topic will be “God’s Reve-
lation in Recent History.”

Tank Men Top Roanoke

(Continued from page 3)

 

The squad’s next meet is with the

 

Belgian Born
Pianist Plays
Here Tuesday

A Belgium-born pianist will pre-
sent a recital Tuesday at 8 p.m. in
Lee Chapel.

Michael Block, a finalist in the re-
cent Leventritt piano competition, will
play under the auspices of the Wash-
ington and Lee Concert Guild.

The 23-year-old pianist now lives in
Mexico City, where he made his de-
but with the Mexican Symphony Or-
chestra when he was 16. He gradu-
ated from the Juilliard School of Mu-
sic in 1958 after studying under Bev-
eridge Webster.

His program Tuesday will include
Partita IV in D Major by Bach, Sonata
in B Minor by Liszt, Kinderscenen,
Op. 15 by Schuman and Trios de
Petroucka by Stravinsky.

The New York Times, in a review
of the Edgar M. Leventritt competition,
praised Block as “young, vital and
musical.”

 

Little All-American

(Continued from page 1)

Dickinson. He is tough, aggressive, a
vicious tackler and pursuer and an in-
spiring and capable leader.”

There is not much more tht could
describe Terry’s football ability.

Terry is a dorm counselor and plays
varsity lacrosse. He is a member of
Delta Tau Delta fraternity.

(Continued from page 2)

| Shouting the words, “Graecum Est,”
he worsted the beast by thrusting his
copy of Aristotle down its throat.
This the boar could not stomach,
|and the college has celebrated the

ever since.

One of the largest colleges is Bal-
liol, whose Master in the 19th Cen-
tury was Jowett, of whom it was
written:

“First come I, my name is Jowett,

it.
I am the Master of the College,
What I know not is not knowledge.”

Opposite Balliol in Broad Street
(or, in the vernacular, “The Broad”)
is an obelisk called Martyrs’ Mem-
orial, in memory of Hugh Latimer,
Nicholas Ridley and Thomas Cran-
mer, who were burned on that spot
in the 16th Century, during the re-
ligious wars.

The architectural monstrosity of
Oxford is Keble College. Tenny-
son described it as “indecent,” and

 

 

Wayland’s Drug Store

Prescriptions, Russell Stover
Candies

Next to Rockbridge Bank

 

 

 

 

There’s no knowledge but I know |

Downtown Oxford Has Activity
That Equals Any American City

John Ruskin changed the course of
his daily walk to avoid seeing it.

Among the most prominent of
Oxford colleges, both socially and
academically, is Magdalen (pro-
nounced Mawdlin). Among its at-

triumph of learning over brute force} tractions are its beautiful gardens,

Addison’s Walk and the Deer Park,
where deer ond other wildlife abound
in a spot only five minutes’ walk
from the heart of Oxford.

One of the most interesting stories
of Magdalen is that of Dr. Ellerton
who discovered that one of the gar-
| goyles of the main quad was the

|i image of himself, the sculptor hav-

ing been bribed by an undergraduate

to fashion the resemblance. Ellerton
at once ordered the gargoyle to be
defaced and scarified. Years later, in
venerable old age, he was horrified
to find that he had grown again to
resemble the statute.

 

NOTICE

Anyone interested in working with
the Dance Board, please contact Steve
Galef at HO 3-5683.

Peer ereeEEETTeEeEaeRaTTs

 

: R. L. Hess and Bro. :
- JEWELERS z
K Lexington, Virginia

: HO 3-2833

We rbe rhe rhe ode ote she sfe she fe oho rte oer rde ode she rferde ode nde feet

 

 

 

 

 

 

Hamric and Sheridan
JEWELERS

Watch and Jewelry Repair
Hand Engraving and Class Rings

HO 3-2022

 

University of Virginia, here, next | seogesgergerteogengertertergeoteogentertertententeoteoteoteofeofeofeote
Tuesday at 4:45 p.m.

“The Wahoos always come up with * NEW TOWN INN $
a strong squad.” remarked Eastman, | %
but I’m hoping that the boys will be bi Short Orders—Lunches z
swimming close to their potential and z Catering to Students Rr
really turn it on next week.” =

sbobrbebebedecedetetotetetotetetenedetetetet

 

HICKMAN’S ESSO

South Main Street
HO 3-2024

 

inti hah ad

 

 

Traditional
W&L BLAZER

With University Crest
and Buttons

The
COLLEGE TOWN
Shop
Student Charge Accounts

Welcomed

It’s Good usiness

To Do usiness
with IERER’S

PHARMACY

 

 

 

 

 

 

Se ee oe oe

Waggy’s Jewelers
35 S. Main Street
Phone HO 3-4121

THE HOME OF QUALITY

 

eee an nn

 

 

 

 

 

THE DUTCH INN

For Reservation Call
MRS. KATHERINE ADAMS
HO 3-3433

 

 

 

 

 

ata ta de

 

fe He oe oe oe oe oe fe ofe of afe ofe of oe ole ole ofe oe ole ole oe of
CALL BY NUMBER
and Save Time

: LEXINGTON
* TELEPHONE CO.

%
*%
%
%
%
%
%
$
We ofe ode oe oe fe nfesfe ale nee ole fe ofa ale oe fe ole ole ole oho oe oho aye

 

Expert Motor Work

 

 

FOREIGN CARS AND STUDEBAKER LARKS
OUR SPECIALTY

MAIN STREET MOBIL STATION

Open 8:00 a.m.—8:00 pan.

 

 

 

TEXACO
Super Service Station
Lexington, Virginia
Corner Main and Nelson
eoeessocessecoeesseoes

 

FOR SALE

Allstate No. 475—Used about 6

Reasonable. Can be seen

at Bill's Tune-up or contact Mrs.
Brown at Sheriff's office.

months.

 

 

 

 

 

 

=

 

 

mo

>
—————
Feo
——-———
{--
beng
net

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

wy
es +) ) =

e

TZZA

H2ZZA

HAMBuRctaS

ie \i Aha
ives (1 2e
Se

aaa > ~

 

 

 

 

a

PARAMOUNT.
i la

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

eat bes

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

rr ae ee

 

Tried
Regular

Filter
Cigarettes?

of

When your taste tells you
it's time for a change,
remember: Only Kool—
no regular filter cigarette,

 

Tried

Other

Menthol
Cigarettes?

NOW! Come Up...All The Way Up
to the MENTHOL MAGIC

no other menthol cigarette—
gives you real Menthol Magic!

©1960, BROWN & WILLIAMSON TOBACCO CORPORATION imgsy

 

KOOL!

DEEP IN your THROA

     
  
       

AVAILABLE
witTHouT
\ FILTER

  

THE MARK OF QUALITY IN TOBACCO PRODUCTS

 

 

 
 

 

TUESDAY
Edition

Che King-tum Phi

Washington and Lee Semi-Weekly Newspaper

TUESDAY
Edition

 

Volume LXI

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA, DECEMBER 6, 1960

Number 23

 

Tucker Series
Will Emphasize

Criminal Law

The Honorable E. Barrett Pretty-
man, Chief Judge of the United States
Court of Appeals at Washington, D. C.,
will be the featured speaker at the
Tucker Law Lectures, April 21 and 22.
He will give a series of three lectures
on the general topic, “Some Modern
Problems in the Criminal Law.”

Prettyman was born on August 23,
1891, here in Lexington. He attended
Randoph-Macon College and George-
town University where he received his
LL.B. and L.L.D.

Judge Prettyman has been very ac-
tive in governmental affairs. He served
as Special Attorney to the Bureau of
Internal Revenue from 1919 to 1920.
In 1933 he was appointed General
Counsel to the Bureau. In 1945 he was
appointed to the Court of Civil Appeals
where he now presides. Judge Pretty-
man also has been a professor of tax-
ation at the Georgetown University
Law School, as well as trustee of
Randolph-Macon College. He is a
member of Phi Beta Kappa, Kappa
Sigma, Omicron Delta Kappa, and
Sigma Upsilon.

Judge Prettyman is the author of
many articles on taxation and admin-
istrative practices of law. He now re-
sides in Chevy Chase, Md.

The Board of Trustees established
the Tucker Law Lectures, during the
Bicentennial of the University in 1949,
in memory of John Randolph Tucker,
the first dean of the law school. Since
that time, the lectures have brought
many distinguished speakers to the
W&L campus.

The initial series of lectures was de-
livered by the Honorable John W.
Davis. He has been followed by a
series of outstanding lecturers, includ-
ing the Honorable Arthur Vanderbilt,
chief justice of the Supreme Court
of New Jersey, and John J. McCloy,
chairman of the Board of the Chase-
Manhattan Bank.

 

Skiing Season
Begins Dec. 18

The Homestead’s winter recreational
area will be open for business when
Washington and Lee students return
from the Christmas holidays. The Hot
Springs, Virginia resort has set the
week of December 18-24 for the tent-
ative opening of their skiing and ice-
skating facilities.

Washington and Lee students flock-
ed to the Homestead last year to en-
joy the first large scale ski resort and
winter sports development in the state
of Virginia. Sepp Kober, noted Aus-
trian ski expert, heads the Homestead
ski school, which offers instruction
for the beginner, intermediate, and ex-
pert. Ice-skating lessons are also avail-
able for those who prefer the ice rink
to the ski slopes.

Kober was recently in Lexington at
the Robert E. Lee Hotel to promote
winter sports in this area. His lectures,
accompanied by films and a showing
of ski fashions, were attended by over
three hundred winter sports fans.

Pres Brown, sponsor of Kober’s
visit, has a full line of ski equipment
for sale and rental use, including over
sixty pairs of skis and boots. The
rental fee for a twenty-four hour
period is five dollars for skis, boots, and
poles.

Saturday and Sunday are considered
as one rental day, with Friday, Satur-
day, and Sunday grouped for two days
rental charge. For prospective buyers
of ski equipment, Pres Brown’s Sport
Shop plans to allow any two rental
fees to be used toward the purchase of
any of the rental items.

The College Town Shop has also
entered the skiing market with the
addition of ski clothing and acces-
sories for sale. On display are ski
pants, sweaters, gloves, and other
items designed to completely out-
fit the ski enthusiast.

With Lexington ready to outfit the
W&L skier, the Homestead is ready
to provide him with snow. The Hot
Springs resort operated successfully
last winter by laying an artificial snow
base on a slope that is over three
thousand feet long and over three
hundred feet wide. This season they
plan to add a trail for the more ad-
vanced skiers. Servicing both runs is
an enclosed car lift which safely trans-
ports skiers to the top of the slopes.

The Homestead has agreed to pro-
vide a special weekly rate for W&L
students. Through the skiing season
the regular $5 rate for use of the
skiing and ice -skating area will be
reduced to a student rate of $3.

 

 

Directors of the Spring Musical and Dick Shulist,

    

3

Cec cid aS

musical coordinator, run over music for the show.

SWMSFC Tryouts
To Be December 7-9

The 1961 SWMSFC Musical will hold
tryouts for twenty-five male singing
and acting parts this week. The audi-
tions are set for Wednesday, Thursday,
and Friday, Dec. 7-9, from 7 until
10 p.m., at the Troubadour Theater.

Steve Danzansky, producer and di-
rector of the annual Spring Musical,
announced that all male singing and
acting parts are available and that
all Washington and Lee students are
eligible. He expressed the desire that
any interested student be present for
the auditions regardless of previous
acting or singing experience. Danzan-
sky added, “Those trying out for sing-
ing parts may sing any selections that
they wish, and may have the use of our
piano player for accompanyment. All
students trying out for acting roles
will be supplied with dialogue in the
show from which to read.”

This year’s SWMSFC Musical will
involve well over 100 students, mak-
ing the production the largest extra-
curricular activity on the W&L cam-
pus. Last year’s show, “The Cannon’s
Mouth,” played to a capacity crowd
of over 1,000 during its four-day run
last spring. “The Cannon’s Mouth”
was also written, produced, and di-

 

UCA Sponsors
Boys’ Cave Trip

The winners of the Thanksgiving
football game sponsored by the UCA
Boys’ Club received their promised
reward last Friday afternoon. Al-
though the trip into Cave Spring had
been postponed several days because
of a plague of hour quizzes among
the W&L Spelunkers, the youngsters
were finally rewarded.

Only about half of the eleven mem-
bers of the winning team were able
to make the trip because of pressing
business matters. Friday afternoon,
when the trip was taken, coincides
with the delivery time for the Rock-
bridge County News, and several of the
boys were thus engaged. However, Roy
Carpenter, head of the Boys’ Club,
felt that more time was valuably spent
within the cave as a result of the}
smallness of the group.

Cave Spring is well known to all!
freshmen geology students, past and |
present. It is located about a mile}
west of Lexington just off route 60.

Under the guidance of Spelunker
Greg Allen, the boys, dressed in old
clothes and equipped with flashlights,
entered the cave. Greg led them
through several portions of the rocky
labyrinth, explaining that the cave had
been formed by the action of water on
limestone and pointing out the stalag-
mites and stalagtites which have grown
there. The exploration continued for
about an hour (3:30-4:30 p.m.).

Roy Carpenter, who also accom-
panied the boys, said, “In spite of the
muddiness and darkness, the boys all |
seemed to enjoy the trip, probably be-
cause it was something they would be
unable to do without proper supervi-
sion. Personally, I had as much fun|
as they did. I had never been in the |
cave before.”

Many W&L men have helped this
fall to make the UCA football teams
a success. Among these are Meade
Christian, Dick Roberts, Bob Ketch-
am, Ted Freed, Jack Cover, and Nick
Phillips. These boys are now super-
vising the Boys’ Club winter program
of basketball. Passing, dribbling, and
shooting are being stressed.

As a_ supplementary program,
“Puncher” Robrecht has agreed to in-
struct the boys in the fundamentals
of boxing.

 

 

Dr. Hughes Named New
Naval Liaison Officer Here

Dr. Thomas P. Hughes, associate
professor of history at Washington
and Lee University, has been named
Naval Liaison Officer for the uni-
versity by the commandant of the
Fifth Naval District.

In his new position, Dr. Hughes
will be responsible for the assistance
of senior students who wish to ob-
tain Naval commissions. Applica-
tions for commissions may be pro-
cessed through Dr. Hughes,

The General Naval program for
college graduates includes studies in
law (for law graduates), intelligence,
supply and aviation.

Dr. Marvin B. Perry, Jr., former

 

head of the English department serv- |
ed as Washington and Lee Naval liai-
son officer,

Officials of the General Electric
Co. plant in Waynesboro, Va., have
donated four pieces of electronic
equipment for use in the physics lab-
oratories at Washington and Lee Uni-
versity.

The used equipment is valued at
everal hundred dollars and will be
| placed in advanced physics labora-

Vann, Hardwick Attend
Foreign Affairs Meetin g

The 11th Annual Student Conference
on Foreign Affairs offered “tremen-
dous insights into the United States’s
foreign policy,” according to Jim Vann,
one of two Washington and Lee dele-
gates to the conference held last week
at West Point.

Vann and Pearce Hardwick repre-
sented W&L at the conference, spon-
sored each year “to foster the growth
and mutual understanding among po-
tential military and civilian leaders of
coming generations, thus making a sig-
nificant contribution toward the future
security of the United States.”

Over 80 colleges and universities
were represented.

“All the prestige schools were
there,” said Hardwick. “It was good
company for W&L to move in.”

Vann, who served as a member of
a panel on the Atlantic Community
explained that the purpose of the con-
ference was to draw up a series of
recommendations for presentation to
the State Department.

Hardwick met with a group discuss-
ing international law.

“We didn’t really come to any
great conclusions,” said Hardwick.
“But we did come to appreciate the
problems of those who have to make
the big decisions for America.”

 

Christmas Seal Drive |
To Begin This Week |

This week marks the opening of the |
annual fund raising drive held by the |
Rockbridge-Buena Vista Tuberculosis
Association. The W&L student body |
will be a part of this drive. All stu-

| dents will be sent one sheet of Christ- |

mas Seals and an envelope addressed |
to the T.B. Association. If a student de- |
sires to help the fund raising drive|
he should put a donation in the en- |
velope and drop it in the nearest mail- |
box. |
The money received will be used |
for patient services, rehabilitation, |
health education, and X-ray and clin- |
ical services. The expected goal for the |
Rockbridge-Buena Vista area
$7,000.

The executive director of the asso-
cation, Mrs. R. M. Cummings, said,
“In the past, Washington and Lee stu-
dents have not only given generously,
but also they have participated in
volunteer work. This year, for example,
one of the school newspaper editors is
a member of the Publicity Committee
of the Rockbridge-Buena Vista Tuber-
culosis Association.”

is

 

GE Donates Equipment

 

tories at the university.

Both delegates called the conference
“a great opportunity—worth a lot more
recognition on the W&L campus.”

Speakers at the conference included
Nelson Rockefeller; Dean Rusk, presi-
dent of the Rockefeller Foundation; Dr.
Joseph E. Johnson, chairman of the
Carnegie Endowment for International
Peace; General C. V. R. Schuyler;
Ernest Lindley, chief of the Washington
Bureau of Newsweek magazine; and
Kenneth Mansfield, staff director of
the Senate Subcommittee on National
Policy Machinery.

 

Dr. J. L. Mays Will Speak
At Yule Service, Dec. 15

Dr. James L. Mays, Associate Pro-
fessor of Biblical Studies at Union
Theological Seminary in Richmond,
will speak at the annual Christmas
Candlelight Service, sponsored by the
University Christian Association.

The service is to be held in the
Robert E. Lee Memorial Episcopal
Church on Wednesday evening, Dec.
15, at 10 p.m. Dr. David Sprunt, Asso-
ciate Dean of Students, will serve as
the presiding minister.

The choir will be composed of the
Washington and Lee Glee Club, which
will sing two motets, “Silent Night”
and “I Know a Rose E’re Blooming.”
| Edwin Maupin, a senior at W&L will
| play the organ. Giving the prelude
| and postlude to the service will be
the John Graham Brass Band.

The offering which will be taken
up at the service will go to the Christ-
mas Project of the Rockbridge Welfare
Board.

Arnold B. McKay, chairman of the
Candlelight Worship Committee, an-
ticipates a large attendance of stu-

dents and of visitors from throughout |

the area.

 

Debaters Win
In Philadelphia

The surprising Washington and Lee
debate team defeated some of the top
schools in the East during a one-day
tournament held last Saturday in
Philadelphia, Pa.

Bill Buice, SAE, and Dick Kelly,
Pi Phi, debated the affirmative side
of the question, “Resolved: The U.S.
Should Have Socialized Medicine,” and
went undefeated for the tournament.
Buice and Kelly compiled a 4-0 record
by defeating highly regarded Cornell,
Notre Dame, La Salle, and Penn State.

The negative team, composed of Bill
Boardman, Beta and George Birdsong,
SAE, finished with a 2-2 record. Their
only losses came from undefeated
Army, who had just won the Brown
University Debate Tournament, and
from St. Joseph’s, one of the power-
houses of the East. Boardman and
Birdsong won their debates against
Boston College and Catholic Univer-
sity.

Mr. William W. Chaffin, coach and
advisor to the W&L debaters, sent an
inexperienced quartet to Philadelphia.
Three of the four participants had
never had any tournament experience,
and one man, Dick Kelly, knew noth-
ing about debating until last Tuesday.
Teams from 61 schools went to the
Philadelphia tournament, making it
one of the largest on the East Coast.

Mr. Chaffin said he was pleased with
the showing the team has been making,
“but it must not be forgotten that de-
bating is primarily an educational ex-
perience and that compiling a winning
record is of secondary importance,
consequently when we travel to
Bridgewater on Thursday, those de-
baters who have made no trips will be

| given the first opportunity to go.”

 

NOTICE

The Troubadour meeting tonight
will be held in the theatre at 7:00
rather than 7:30.

 

*

 

Mrs. Arlene Stover fits George Birdsong for Fancy Dress costume. Ned Ames

looks on.

—Photo by Young

rected by Danzansky.

Danzansky is currently putting the
finishing touches on the 1961 Musical,
an adaptation of an old Greek comedy
by Aristophanes. He said, “With these
tryouts the Musical swings into its
second important stage. We want all
talented students to be present for the
auditions, for if the show hits the road
we need the best possible cast to rep-
resent W&L. We have the ability and
the resources on this campus to put on
a top-notch musical, as was shown
in last year’s show, “The Cannon’s
Mouth.” This year will require, how-
ever, twice as many people, making
it requisite for every qualified person
to volunteer his services to SWMFSC
and to the school.”

SWM Group
Expands Show

The Student War Memorial Schol-
arship Fund Committee has announced
plans to expand their yearly musical,
in hopes that enough funds can be
raised to provide for a second func-
tioning scholarship by the fall of 1961.
A prominent arranger has been hired
to assist in the production, and this
will cause an increase in the general
expenses.

These additional expenses will be
met by taking the show on the road to
increase the gross receipts. The com-
mittee has scheduled performances in
Lynchburg, Roanoke, and Richmond,
relying heavily on the support of the
alumni in these areas. Included in the
proposed plans are agreements with
alumni groups in the three cities to
underwrite parts of the show by as-
suring their attendance. The expand-
ed program will call for a gross of
$3,500 as compared to $1,000 last year.

Sets Easily Transported

A spokesman for SWMSFC stated:
“We are going to make sets that can
be easily transported to the cities on
the proposed road trip. Those reading
the first act and hearing the songs feel
that this year’s musical will have ap-
peal to alumni, as well as to the W&L
students.”

SWMSFC was set up in the years
following World War II to establish
a scholarship in memory of the Wash-
ington and Lee men who gave their
lives in the war. The principal ($10,000)
earned from past musicals and activities
has been invested with the University
and the scholarship winner receives
the interest on the original invest-
ment. The scholarship is awarded an-
nually by a faculty committee on the
basis of need, high school record and
ability. The committee is planning to
establish a second scholarship of equal
value.

Costume Sales
End Thursday

Mrs. Arlene Stover from Oak Hall
costume distributors in Roanoke is
visiting the Washington and Lee cam-
pus this week to take orders for Fancy
Dress costumes.

Mrs, Stover will be here Wednesday

 

 

 

and Thursday to complete the initial
ordering of costumes. She will also be
back in January to complete orders
and measurements for the Shakespear-
ean costumes.

Measurements Not Necessary

Mrs, Stover remarked that it was
not necessary for students to have their
dates measurements to order a cos-
sume. Students may have themselves
measured now, and then send in their
dates’ measurements when they have
them.

Students must be measured for the
following specifications: chest, waist,
height, weight, outseam, and hat size.
In addition, they must provide the fol-
lowing measurements for their dates:
Bust, waist, hips, height, weight, dress
size and length of skirt, from waist to
ankle.

The theme is Shakespearean, and
students may pick costumes from any
of the Shakespearean plays. As a re-
sult there are costumes from the
Egyptian and Roman periods, the medi-
eval period, the Italian and French
Renaissance ages as well as from the
Elizabethan era.

The costumes cost $16 for those stu-
dents who have Dance Plans. Those
students who do not have the plans
must pay $18 for the set.

The costumes are being sold from
9 a.m. to 5 p.m. in the Student Union.
Page 2

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

Che King-tum Phi

Tuesday Edition

Member of Virginia Intercollegiate Press Association

Overload?

The honor system at Washington and Lee is our most
precious tradition. We must guard it zealously. Everyone is
agreed on these points. We question the manner in which it
must be guarded.

 

Again we come to the question of overload. Certainly the
system should not be overloaded. But we would admonish those
who are making the decisions of whether this or that field of
student activity should or should not come under the system
to proceed with caution; to be careful lest they exclude too much
and thereby weaken our system.

It is true that our student body constitution states that the
honor system shall be interpreted in accordance with the mores
and ideas of the contemporary student generation. The provi-

sion of the constitution is for obvious reasons a wise one. It en-
ables us to prevent our system from becoming overloaded.

We feel, however, that a slight overload would be more
desirable than a system which had been weakened through the
withdrawal of honor system support from the various fields of

student activity.

Would it not be more sensible to wait and consider each
case as it arises rather than to declare whole areas of University
life to be beyond honor system control? Each year, the new
Executive Committee of the Student Body has the right to re-
interpret the system, and to state which of these various areas
it considers to be outside of the system.

Under this plan, changes are made from year to year con-
cerning various infringements of the honor code. A good deal
of confusion results which could easily lead to embarrassing
situations for members of the Student Body and the Executive
Committee. Could this confusion not be avoided by dealing
with each case separately? After all the EC does have the right
to decide whether or not the circumstances surrounding a case
warrant taking the case to trial.

Christmas Seal Campaign

Sometime between now and Christmas, the Lexington
Christmas Seal Campaign will be brought into the fraternity
houses of Washington and Lee. This year’s campaign leaders
have decided to appear before the respective houses in person,
in hopes of making the drive more successful this year than it
has been in the past.

With the aid of house officers an the cooperation of the
IFC, these dedicated folk hope to appear before every house on
campus during one of their fraternity meetings. At that time
they plan to distribute the usual quota of seals and to solicit
what ever aid might be forthcoming from the Student Body.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Barney Google and Snuffy Smith © By Fred Lasswell
PAW, HOW ‘cause i'm amin’
COME ‘oak 7 TO GET US SOME
‘oun tene pee CHRISTMAS SEALS
é e AY on cual
WIF YE ? & MONEY IN THAT
va BODACIOUS BONNET!
NN, f
4 . Help Fight 18
Sinn
; Wig ie
))
, wo ox 3 *
King Veoteres World Use Christmas Seals

 

 

Dr. Spencer Spent Last Summer
At World Geologic Congress;
Visiting European Universities

By HARVEY ALLEN
While most of us either went home,

tied in with his current work in Mon-
tana.

to summer school, or to ROTC camp,
Dr. Edgar W. Spencer and his wife
were in Europe.

The primary purpose of the trip was
to enable Dr. Spencer, of the W&L
geology department, to attend the
eighty-third meeting of the Interna-
tional Geologic Congress. The Con-
gress meets once every four years, and
met this year in Copenhagen, Denmark.
The meetings lasted from August 15
to 25, during which members were
divided among several sections, each
dealing with various aspects of geology.

Separate symposiums were held on
particular problems in the world of
geology, such as the one Dr. Spencer
attended, having to do with the geology
of the Pre-Cambrian times and de-
formation of the earth’s crust. For those
unschooled in geology, the pre-Cam-
brian age lasted until about 550,000,000
years ago.

The symposiums in which Dr.
Spencer took part tied in with his
continuing research in the Yellow-
stone-Big Horn area in Montana. He
is studying in a predominantly pre-
Cambrian area, with particular inter-
est in structures and formations.

Before and after the actual meetings
of the International Geologic Confer-
ence, delegates took the opportunity to
go on field trips in various parts of
Europe. As an example, Dr. Spencer
traveled in the Scandinavian Shield
area, resembling the Canadian Shield
here in North America, once again

 

Following the formal conferences
and meetings in Copenhagen, Dr. and
Mrs. Spencer toured the Alps region,
criss-crossing the area and visiting
several colleges and universities.

Dr. Spencer observed that the
European Universities’ geology de-
partments were largely understaff-
ed, resulting in a very undesirable
student-professor ratio. He quickly
added that this did not mean Euro-
pean universities were by any means
behind us in knowledge or research,
but only suffered from a lack of po-
sitions available to qualified men in
the field of geology.

Keeping in mind that most people
are very interested in just what the
Russians are doing and how advanced
they are, we asked Dr. Spencer about
Russian advancement in geology. He
said that there is no evidence that the
Russians are lacking in knowledge and
are certainly not far behind the west-
ern schools.

Dr. Spencer’s trip was sponsored
by the National Science Foundation,
and the Glenn Grants here at Wash-
ington and Lee. The Spencers left
Lexington on the third of June and
returned September 6.

Dr. Spencer is presently the vice-
president of Yellowstone-Big Horn
Research Association, and is serving on
the committee recently set up by Gov-

ernor Almond to advise in the field of |

geology.

 

Raven Rants

“Age Of New Frontiers,” Like Eve,
Fears Boredom, Demands Diversion

By GERRY OUELLETTE

Several weeks ago a classmate of
ours remarked that we were a genera-
tion doomed to utter intellectual dis-
interestedness. He assumed that the
great events of which we are all the
by products had somehow usurped our
vitality, the means of rendering our
human condition interesting. Thus he
saw no possibility of anyone becoming
attached, rooted in any manner which
makes for great emotional exhuberance
in things other than very personal.

Last week a colleague branded our
generation in the Friday edition with
the label “silent generation.” This re-
curring theme, making us appear as a
group of uncommitted, unaffected, de-
tached individuals, is one which seems
to us more cruel, more inhuman than
bohemianism or beatism.

Once in a garden, a girl by the
name of Eve, sitting by her mate,
stood and observed, “Golly, there

must be something to do in this in-
fernal place other than sleep and
lounge around to pass the time of
day.” So she took a walk around the
place for the sake of diversion. Along
the way she met a talking serpent.
“Well,” she thought, “how interest-
ing.” And so it began.

Much later, man, having survived
all sorts of ingenious means of natural
and self-made destruction, found him-
self sleeping and lounging around in
a society that gave him more leisure
time than any other the world had
witnessed. Man rose, looked around,
and said, “Boy, how disinteresting all
this is. It really isn’t even worth talk-
ing about, so I guess I’l just be silent.”
In the meantime, man walked over
to his twenty-one inch television set,
sat in front of it for several hours, got
up and went to a movie.

We must admit that the conten-

 

tions made by both of our classmates

because we worry that these far re-
moved activities will bore us or will
prevent us from providing for our
entertainment.

This silent generation is constantly
called upon to act, to move in paths
of self entertainment. This genera-
tion demands to be entertained. We
are a generation of spectators, of
onlookers witnessing the great spec-
tacle of life. We are caught in an
infinite regression: we watch others
who watch others et cetera ad infini-
tum.

have enough truth in them to make
them impressive. We of the third de-
cade of the twentieth century are
disinterested, we are silent. (It’s so
much easier.) We settle back in the
comfortable spare time which our
fathers won for us through toil and
sweat, and we turn on the television
set they invented.

Nevertheless, our behavior, reflecting
our disinterestedness and silence, ap-
pears more a symptom than as the
disease itself. Yes indeed, we of the
“Age of New Frontiers” are diseased

with fear. We have a fear more deadly,! We do what we do, or we avoid do-

more corruptible than the fear of fear
itself.

We are all good sons of our parents;
we are intellectually disinterested and
actually silent because we are afraid
to death of being bored. We fear
boredom as hell itself; we consequent-
ly take no interest in things not im-

ing what we would rather omit, be-
cause we are fighting. We are strug-
gling with a new ingenious means of
destruction: the fear of becoming bored
in a world equipped to provide the
time and other necessities with which
to become detached, unaffected, un-
committed, and utterly boring our-

 

mediately and purposely affecting us,! selves.

 

 

j

Rosy Carpenter (left) and Greg Allen (right) appear with members of Lexingion Bowl winners. See story, page 1.

LETTERS

TO THE Q

Christmas is still a month away, but

Dear Editor:

the town merchants have the decor-
ations in the windows, the Christmas
lights are in the streets and the
Christmas parade including Santa and
all his trappings have passed through
the streets of Lexington.

The merchants have no choice. They
must remind the folk of our fair city
that Christmas is just a month away
and that there are only a few pre-
cious shopping days left until $mas.
The town lights were already weeks
behind those of the neighboring large
cities.

St. Nick, in our wonderful commer-
c'al Christmas tradition, had begun to
make his appearance weeks before
Thanksgiving. His legions will con-
tinue to grow until the 25th of this
month by which time there will be a
red suit and a white beard on every
street and corner and cross roads in
the U.S. Of late, he’s even begun to
travel in rocket ships.

We can attribute all of this to the
“American Way” and the scandalous
commercialization of our Christmas.
It must be accepted, and maybe it isn’t
too terrible after all.

What we can’t shrug off is the fact
that even the private homes of this

3

 

—Photo by Young

 

Webster Unabridged

 

Thinking” Assignment Finished
In Spite Of Pastoral Distractions

By ED WEBSTER

The assignment was a little bit un-
usual. “This week,” said the professor,
“TI want each of you to spend an hour
just thinking.”

That was that. He didn’t specify what
to think about, or where to think.

Saturday afternoon, when the sun
had just warmed the edge off the frosty
air, seemed a good time to complete
the assignment. Putting binoculars
around my neck and a pipe in my
pocket, I headed for the large area
of woods and fields lying between the
campus and the river.

I made my way down a vine-tangled
slope, to enter what I hoped was a
world of stillness and harmony.

While hiking along a dry creek
bed near the railroad cut, I received
my first disillusionment. At a flat
place on the bank, their red labels
clashing with the underbrush, were
several dozen empty Sterno cans.

Apparently I had stumbled onto the

scene of some hobo bacchanalia.

HOW COME THE
SCHOOLS DON'T
CLOSE ON
BEETHOVEN'S
BIRTH

?

 

Being unprepared for this little taste
of sordidness, I tramped across the
field toward a more idyllic locale.
Through an open grove of cedar trees,
I could see the river in the distance,
with the late afternoon sun slanting
across the hills.

It was then that the sound of gun-
fire assailed me. Not sporadic gunfire,
but a constant banging, intensified by
many echoes. It was like someone
walloping a drum during a pastoral
symphony.

On the ground beneath me, how-
ever, the frost on the leaves was un-
disturbed. These bits of dead vegata-
tion, always in the shade, had accumu-
lated thick white clusters of geometri-
cal whatnots—a microcosmic snowfall.

I came out of the grove and started
down to the river. A few indignant
sparrows, disturbed from their re-
treats in a patch of weeds, sped furtive-
| ly into a clump of honeysuckle.

 

Up the river, a cry rang out,
(Continued on page 4)

IF HE WAS SO GREAT, HOW

COME THE BANKS DON'T CLOSE
EITHER, OR THE POST OFFICES
OR THE LIBRARIES 7HOW COME?

 

    

 

 

 

 

I KNOW SOMETHING
THAT NEVER CLOSES

 

 

Cape. 1960 by United Fearure Syndicare, inc.

Ta

 

 

 

section are already lit up with lights
and the decorations that have come to
symbolize the Christmas spirit, and
which are bound to lose their signifi-
(Continued on page 4)

NOTICE
There will be a meeting of the
HOME EDITION staff Wednesday
at 4:45 in the Journalism Room.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

EPeeee eee See ee sere eeees
+
VARSITY * THE NEW ¢
+ +
+ . T +
BILLIARD : White op }
ef
* *
ACADEMY : Restaurant }
+ +
; * * :
Catering ‘ +
+
To Students 5 A personal invitation
‘ to the $
+
¥
Corner of z Students :
a +
Washington and Jefferson ~% Try our delicious foods =
+
z Route 60 East $
+ ;
Poeeeeeeeneeoeeoeenngegt

 

 

 

 

 

The First National Bank

of Lexington
*
has special checking accounts

for students

 

 

 

PPh Pole foeheefo ee feferfere eh feofor

RS

 

LELEELEEEEEEDE HEELS EEE EEE SEES SEES

Shirt Service as You Like it
Quality Cleaning and Pressing

UNIVERSITY CLEANERS
HO 3-3622

*
“Your Campus Neighbors”

DL ede eed ohe ode ented oe ooh eos oe ode eof fees rde ooo cde ofe ee ofoctefecde de ofecte booed

 
 

 

 

 

 

THE RING-TUM PHI

Page 3

 

Generals Handed Third Straight Defeat

W&L Five Lose To Norfolk
And Richmond By 67-45, 80-51

Although good hustle by the Gen-
erals kept them in the Norfolk game
in the first half, they wilted under
the shooting and rebounding of Little
All-American Leo Anthony in the sec-
ond half. Anthony paced the Braves’
game with 27 points while Ken Ko-
walski led the Generals with 14 points.

WA&L got off to a good start in the
game and was able to keep the Wil-
liam and Mary team contained in
the first half through the efforts of
Brett Thackston, John McDowell and
Kowalski. The play making of
Thackston, rebounding of McDowell,
and shooting of Kowalski however,
kept the hopes of the Doremus Gym
audience alive.

Anthony dominated the first half
play with his fancy shots and tallied
up a total of 11 points. The Braves
were able to drop in a few last minute
baskets to lead at the half time by
31-24.

The W&L five chalked up two
quick tallies at the start of the sec-
ond half to cut Norfolk William and
Mary’s lead to 31-28 but the re-
bounding and shooting accuracy of
the Braves soon showed through.
During the second half the Generals
were suddenly unable to hit from the
floor, and Norfolk was able to build
up a sizeable lead. The W&L attack
was further hurt when John Mc-
Dowell was forced to sit out most of
the half with an ankle injury.

From there on out the Braves con-
trolled the ball most of the time with
the Generals scoring only 8 baskets.

 

The game ended with a 67-45 victory
for the Braves of Norfolk.

The Generals’ third defeat came last
night with their game with the Uni-
versity of Richmond. The Spiders
used the fast break to their advant-
age and routed the Blue and White,
80-51.

Washington and Lee got off to a
fast start, hitting five of its first seven
shots to take a 10-4 lead over the
Spiders. But then the Generals be-
gan to cool which gave the Richmond
team an opportunity to make some
baskets of their own. In the next
eleven attempts, the Generals hit
only one basket, and Richmond, get-
ting some expert firing from Tom
Brooker, went to a 15-12 edge over
the Generals after ten minutes.

A few minutes later Richmond scor-
ed 12 consecutive points, mostly on
layups, to move into the leading po-
sition 33-16. At the halftime the score
stood 43-21.

In the second half the story was
about the same with the Spiders con-
trolling the ball the greater part of
the time. The Generals came no
closer than 17 points in the second
half and the final score was 80-51.

The next two games that the Blues
will play are with Randolph-Macon
on Thursday night at Ashland and
then return home to Doremus Gymna-
sium to a game with Sewanee.

 

The VMI Athletic Department has
announced a 75c ticket for home
basketball games will be available to
all W&L students and faculty.

 

Green Valley Motel

One Mile North on
U. S. Highway No. li

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA
HO 3-2195

 

 

 

For those extra pieces

of
FURNITURE

for your room
see our stock
before buying

oe
VARNER AND POLE

 

 

 

 

20) (1110000000 000440000000000S0000000ES0000UUGOSNEOOUUOESOOOOUUOOSONOOUUGOSOOOOOGASOOEUOOOOOGOORUUGOGNEUUOOGGORUAG AGOGO

 

 

‘Grapplers Lose
To UNC—16-15

The Generals’ wrestling team was
defeated last Friday night in a close
match with the University of North
Carolina by a 16-15 score. There were
three pins in the match, two of them
taken by W&lL, and the remaining
events were decisions, with one draw.

The Blue and White won the 123,
147, 167, and 177 pound classes while
the Tarheels scored in the remaining
divisions. In the 123 lb. class, Dave
Montgomery won over his opponent
by a decision; in the 130 Ib. class
Alex Alexander was defeated by a
decision; in the 137 Ib. class Ted
Hardin was defeated also by a de-
cision; in the 147 Ib. class Sandy
Mersereau pinned his opponent,
Jones, in 6:55; in the 157 Ib. class
Albert was defeated by a decision;
in the 167 Ib. class, Herb Smith pin-
ned his opponent, Wyke, in 7:30; in
the 177 lb. class Jud Babcock and
Galser of UNC had a draw match,
2-2; and in the heavyweight class
Sam Block was pinned by Kortner
in 4:05.

Coach Dick Miller pointed out that
the weak spots of the team this year
lay in the lower weight classes es-
pecially the 130 and 137 slots. The
heavier weights such as 167, 177, and
heavyweights “are the best boys that
I have seen and this should be our
strength this year,” Coach Miller said.
He was especially pleased with the
performance of freshman Herb Smith,
who occupies the 167 lb. slot, and
p.nned his man in his first match.

 

Varsity & Frosh
Meet Virginia

The varsity and freshman swimming
teams will meet the University of
Virginia in Doremus Gymnasium to-
night. The senior squad will be looking
for its second win in as many starts,

while this is the initial test for the
freshmen.

Coach Norris Eastman feels that, “a
team effort, with improvement from
every swimmer” will be necessary to
sink the Cavaliers. Last year’s meet
with Virginia started off as a tight
contest, but turned into a 56-39 rout
for Washington and Lee.

The tankmen face Catholic Univer-
sity here Saturday, and then meet a
tough West Virginia team at Morgan-
town, Dec. 12.

The Baby Generals have meets with
Staunton, Massanutten, and Lynchburg
before the Christmas holidays. The
Staunton meet is away, while the
other two are slated for the Doremus
pool.

 

Freshman Basketball Team
Defeats Fork Union, 73-42

scoring.

The freshman basketball team de-
feated Fork Union Military Academy
in Doremus Gymnasium on Saturday
afternoon by a 73-42 score. A runaway
from the start, guard Fred Ridolphi
sparked the game with his constant

Upholding the momentum of their
first game victory over the Bridge-
water freshmen, the starting lineup
of forwards Dave Britt and Steve
Walsh, guards Gordon Taylor and
Ridolphi, and center Howard Mar-
tin handled the Fork Union team
with relative ease. With a sizeable
lead, Coach Joe Lyles was able to
use the whole squad during the
final quarter of the game.

Ridolphi, high scorer in the Bridge-
water game with 18 points, was again
top man in this game with 16, but was
joined in his position by sub Fred
Shaeffer, who also scored 16 points.
The next high man was center Martin

with 14 points.

 

All-State Choices

7 W&L Players
Honored By AP;
3 On Ist Team

Six members of the Washington and
Lee football team were named to the
Associated Press Virginia All-State
small college football team.

Little All-American Terry Fohs re-
ceived the center position on the first
team. In addition, Steve Suttle and
Doug Martin were included among
the backs o nthe first team.

Ned Hobbs, an end, was given an
honorable mention berth, as were Bill
Wheeler, a tackle, Charlie Gummey
the backs on the first team.

These awards are especially signifi-
cant since this is the first time since
1954 that a Washington and Lee
player has been named to the first
team.

All of these players are juniors, and
with the exception of Fohs, all will
be returning to varsity positions next
year.

Ned Hobbs was elected by the team
as one of next year’s tri-captains.

 

 

BROWN’S

CLEANING
WORKS

We Call for and Deliver

24 Hour Service
Student agents in the
dormitory and fraternities
HO 3-2012 14 Randolph St.

 

 

The Southern Inn

Cordially invites you to make this your headquarters for good food
Here you get the best food for the most reasonable prices

Our Specialties:

Steaks, Chicken, Country Ham, and the best sandwiches
in town

Meet your friends here

 

©0060 60888HOH8OO8FHHHHHHDHOHHHHOHHHHOHHHEOOHEEEEOEES

SUNDAY

Ted’s Steak House

Finest Foods
Choice Meats
WwW

Route 60 Buena Vista

DINNERS

SQUAT

Photo Suggestions .. .

Cameras and all camera accessories

Bee

Over 65 different items to select from, in solid brass—

Telescopes and Optics . . .

Beautiful woodenware (in modern and early American)

Original K. Denning Line of jewelry (New!)

Sterling Silver Jewelry by Lurf

 

 

 

 

Open a convenient student Checking account
TODAY

at

Rockbridge National Bank

Member Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation

 

 

Shop now—avoid the rush when you get home

Sporting Goods .. .

Ski Parkas—Ski Pants
Sweaters and all Ski Accessories

Footballs and Football Outfits

Dart Boards

Golf Balls, clubs, and all Accessories

Hobbies and Toys . . .

Many, Many Hobby Kits, Games, Dolls,

Trucks, Craft Sets, Science Sets

FREE GIFT WRAPPING—

them —SHOP NOW

PRES BROWN’S

14 West Washington St.

Thousands of items — It would be impossible to list even a small percentage of

SsrNNNUUUUUINNNNUHUUUIIL
Page 4

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

Webster Finally

Finds Finesse

(Continued from page 2)

sounding somewhere between a moan
and a shriek. It was followed by an-
other.

Focusing my binoculars on the river
bank, I saw a small group of students,
wearing nothing but bermuda shorts.
They were, so help me, taking dips
in the river. Considering that ice lined
the Maury in several places, these
fellows had good reason to shriek.

Giving moral support to these stoics
were a handful of girls. They were
probably very impressed. What an idea
for a Saturday afternoon date: go down
to the river and watch somebody
catch pneumonia.

% * Se

For my part, I was content to ob-
serve the river from a weathered gray
rock. Below me, in a quiet pool, the
leaves of summer had matted into a
sombre patchwork quilt, undisturbed
by the rushing current. On the far
bank, twilight was creeping upward in
the branches of three sun-gilded syca-
mores.

With pipe smoke curling about me,
and the rumble of rapids drowning out
the growl of traffic, I was finally able
to do some thinking. It’s a little easier
to see things in perspective, when
you're alone in the out-of-doors.
(Question: Why do we refer to nature
as “the out-of-doors,” as though it
were something outside the normal
scope of human experience? )

When the sun got pretty far down,
I became colder than contempla-
tive. After warming myself in front of
a fire, I wandered slowly back to the
campus.

Che Bing-tum Phi

Tuesday Edition

The Ring-tum Phi is published Tues-
day and Friday during the college year.
It is printed by the Journalism Labor-
atory Press, Washington and Lee Uni-
versity. The mailing address is Box
899, Lexington, Va,

Entered as second class matter Sep-
tember 20, 1946 at the Post Office, Lex-
ington, Va., under the act of March
3, 1878.

National Advertising Representative:
The National Advertisers Service, Inc.,
420 Madison Ave., New York, N.Y.

Letter to Editor
(Continued from page 2)

cance, even to the younger set, if they |
go up at Thanksgiving and don’t come |
down until the New Year. |

Each year, Washington and Lee has |
one of the most beautiful Christmas |
services that we have ever had the!
privilege to attend in the Robert E. |
Lee Memorial Church. For 3 years now, |
this event, which is held during the |
last week preceding the Christmas |
vacation, has first stirred in us the!
spirit of the Christmas season. And
it was not until after this service that
the lights, the tree and the rest have

a 2

 

   

 

TUES.-WED.

 

 

 

 

come to mean anything to us.

The thing that hurts us most about
the local scene is the fact that one of
our campus trees has already been
decorated. A decorated Christmas tree
before the middle of December is al-
most as out of place as an Easter Bun-
ny in a snow storm. As we pass this
particular tree, we are amazed, and
then we realize that Christmas is after
all only a month away.

Sincerely,
A SENIOR

OOS 880 T SOOO O SO ONT OO
—

 

J
2
*
W hite’s Music :

Store

(Opposite State Theater)

"ee a a ME ME ae ae

*
%
%
+
+ 4
+ 4
% ‘
* 4
3 ;
* ‘
+ +
; ik :
: :
+ Phonographs—Hi-Fi +
* : ——
% Expert Repair Service =
¥ te
+
: * :
% : *
* 5 W. Nelson St. Lexington, Va. *
3 HO 3-3522 =
+ *
% +
% i

‘
Pebedeoboebobetetetebebebebeteteteteteteteteds

 

 

 

 

ROCKBRIDGE LAUNDRY

and
Dry Cleaners

Shirts Transparently Wrapped
for Freshness
*
AGENTS:

Fraternities, Dorms and Co-op

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

CO eee
Business Manager..............

Editorial Board

Managing Editot...............0 Bill Roberts
Photography Editor.................. Bill Young
Assistant Managing Editor.................0

Rosewell Page, III
Huntley Biggs

News Editor..... i

Sports Editor

Associate Editors........ Lanny Butler, Bill
Smith, Ronnie King

VORtere TROP. c.scecasiscsesssiorse Harvey Allen

Advertising Manager.......... Jerome Dattel
Circulation Manager........Peter Agelesto
CRS MADRE ..orcsssceessrsscssssease Don McFall

    

 

 

 

AEST

STATE

LEXINGTON, VA.
|_WOBART 3-2424 |

 

 

WED. through SAT.

f Kf

 

 

 

—added—

Football

Thrills of 1960

 

 

 

Radio Hospital

ae
Radio, TV, Phonograph
Sales and Service

*

HO 3-3531

 

 
 

Mee Same

 

the PEOPLES NATIONAL BANK

 

STUDENTS ACCOUNTS INVITED HERE
Member F.D.1.C.

  

:
:

#
ee

 

 

 

PARAMOUNT

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   

 

 

LEXINGTON
CLEANERS

Phone HO 3-3813 108 S. Jefferson

 

 

 

 

fob obo ofe oho ohe oho ae oe ahe ofe oe oho se oe oe oe ole ae oe ae oe afoot

 

KA -
¥ :
; Baker :
eo z
* Ford Sales :
=
-

* °

: & :
- ;
= BETTER DEALS ;
$ CLEARANCE

i of lot for 1961 Models

}

: NEW AND

= USED CARS

x Highway 60 East

:

bobs oe ohe oe oe oe oe oe ofeofe feof feof fe fe oe fe of af afe af

 

 

 

Erresssseeeoessessaseees | Seeeoococovoscooooooooce
% IDEAL : = MYERS :
* BARBER SHOP #/§ HARDWARE ?
+ QUICK SERVICE ‘ : COMPANY :
+ +\e *
Of ofe oe ofe ofe ofe ofe nfs ofe nfs ofe oleate ote ole ode of ofe of ole ofe age eeeeeeeeoeeoeoeooeeeeeeeeee

 

OO
error EES

We Feature

SEALTEST

Dairy Products

“To get the best get Sealtest”’

over twenty different products in addition to

. delicious Sealtest ice cream

Block and Crushed Ice

Your favorite mixes—Ice Cold

Phone HO 3-2168

*
Maple-Rock Distributors, Inc.

ahaha ait lalate iain fede odeodegeofererfefeoerendeoderfeogeoer ends ote oferfe ode ole ode ofr

Se Me Me Me he Bete he te Be Be tee the Ba a te ee te a te a tte te Ba ite tha he the a a aie

ee ee ee ee ee Se Se Se ee

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

start at $59.95.

 

 

 

 

Colonist—an Early American cedar chest in colonial ‘maple.

Cedar Chests from Augusta Furniture, Staunton, Va.

AUGUSTA FURNITURE

22 South Augusta St., Staunton

Open Fridays Till 8:30 p.m.

 

No charge for packing or freight anywhere in U. S. on LANE

When you give a Lane Cedar Chest you know you're sure to please for
there’s nothing more practical and more loved by HER. It means a home of
her own before marriage, extra storage for young-marrieds, and a treasured
storage vault for mother.

All you have to do is drop by thrifty old Augusta Furniture next time you
head Mary Baldwin way, let our trained decorator-salesmen help you select
which style will please her best from Danish modern, Early American, or 18th
Century traditional, and we'll do all the rest. No charge for packing, no charge
for freight anywhere in the 50 states. Delivery guaranted by Christmas. Prices

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

TETLOW
TV Service

221 S. Main HO 3-2841

Running the IyeYS

VATE

 

STICK TO THE

  
  

 

 
   
   

 

THERE ?
NICE AND
SMOOTH!

|

| YOU HAVE TO THINK FOR YOURSELF...
| AND THINK FAST!
Se ;

 

 

   

Jim is taking his son Bob
‘white water’ canoe trip...

 

 

aT

 

 

on his first

 

WHITE WATER! £

| Jim had spotted the siate
formation in the canyon |
... and realized smooth,
inviting slicks could hide
death-dealing flat_rocks!

 

HIDDEN ROCKS, EH?

 
 
  
   
      
   

AMAN WHO THINKS
FOR, HIMSELF, DAD.
THAT WHY YOU

SMOKE VICEROY?

 

 

 

 

 

 

TALWAYS KNEW YOURE

 

 
 

   
  
   
       
       
 
 
 
  
 

 
  
   
      
 
   

OF COURSE!
VICEROYS
GOTIT...
AT BOTH ENDS!
GOT THE FILTER,
GOT THE BLEND! 4

 
 
 
 

    
   
   
 

Viceroys gotit..
at both ends

THE

     
   

Filter Tip

C1OARETTES

  

  
   

& Mormoy &

©1960, BROWN & WILLIAMSON TOBACCO CORP.

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

FRIDAY
Edition

Che Ring-tum Phi

Washington and Lee Semi-Weekly Newspaper

FRIDAY
Edition

 

Volume LXI

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA, DECEMBER 9, 1960

Number 24

 

 

Morison To Speak At ODK

 

Danzansky auditions students.

SWMSEC Try-Outs End
Tonight; Need 20 Actors

The much talked about 1961 Student
War Memorial Scholarship Fund Com-
mittee Musical ended its second out
of three nights of try-outs last night
with a fine showing of talent. Over
twenty-five boys have been down to
the Troubadour Theatre from 7-10
p.m. for try-outs and about the same
number are expected tonight, the final
night. From here, the show will prob-
ably go to one of the girl’s schools to
cast the twenty odd female parts which
the show will require.

Steve Danzansky, author and the
director, had this to say about the
try-outs: “We are all very pleased
at the response shown by the student
body in the last two nights. It is in-
deed gratifying to see boys who want
to be in something, rather than hav-
ing to be pushed into it. I can’t stress
enough, however, the importance of
having everyone who has any talent
at all, try-out. We are doing a larger
show this year and thus have about
twice as many parts to be filled. So far,
we don’t have enough talented men to
fill them.”

Danzansky, who wrote and directed
last year’s show “the Cannon’s Mouth,”

Iwo Jima Phot

By R. ROY GOODWIN
Asst. Managing Editor

The long-standing controversy con-
cerning the authenticity of the United
States Marine Corps’ famous “Flag
Raising on Iwo Jima” picture, and of
the statute of the same scene now in
Washington, was brought up again last
night by Merle Miller, a noted author
and television writer.

Speaking to a capacity crowd in
duPont Auditorium last night, Mil-
ler, who was the third speaker of
the Washington and Lee Glasgow
Lecturers, said that the picture and
the statute are both “phonies.”

Miller became involved in the con-
troversy, he said, when he began to
work on a television play called “The
American” for Playhouse 90 some two
years ago.

The play was concerned with the life
of an American Indian Ira Hayes, who
was shown in the group supposed to
have taken part in the original flag
raising.

Not the Raising

Hayes, Miller said, was not in the
actual flag raising but instead was
standing near the spot when public
relations men from the Armed Forces
asked him to step forward with five
other Marines and pose for the picture.

Nearly 100 pictures were taken, The

last was taken by an Associated Press |

photographer named Joe Rosenthal.
This picture was the one that has now
become so famous for being the “au-
thentic” picture of the Iwo Jima flag
raising.

 

 

seemed pleased at the number of men
in that show who auditioned for a
second try this year: “I can’t help but
feel that the boys liked what we did
last year, and are willing to offer their
services again in 1961. Our thanks to

(Continued on page 4)

 

Joel E. Kocen To Succeed
White As Review Editor

Joel E. Kocen, Washington and Lee
University senior law student from
Richmond, today was named editor-
in-chief of the Washington and Lee
Law Review for the second semester
of the 1960-61 school year.

He succeeds Hugh V. White, Jr.,
Holland, Va., law senior, in the top
position. Kocen will direct a staff of
top Washington and Lee law students
in the preparation of volume 18 of the
Law Review, scheduled for publica-
tion next fall. Professor Ritz announc-
ed Kocen’s selection.

The Law Review is published twice
annually, and it includes feature ar-
ticles by noted jurists, attorneys and

(Continued on page 4)

“The trouble with the picture,” Mil-
ler said, “is that it’s a phony.”

Small and Tattered
The first flag raised on Iwo Jima was
a small and slightly tattered one, he
said, not the glorious one you see in
the statue in Washington, or in the pic-

 

 

Alumnus Of Washington and Lee Has Distinguished
Himself In Government Posts; Tap Day In February

The Hon. H. Graham Morison, for-
mer Assistant Attorney-General of
the United States will be the principal
speaker on Omicron Delta Kappa tap
day scheduled for February.

Mr. Morrison is a 1930 graduate of
Washington and Lee, and was gradu-
ated from the W&L Law School in ’32.

A native of Johnson City, Tenn.,
Morison was associated with Wendell
Wilkie’s New York Law firm during
the late 1930’s. He went to Washington
in 1942 with the War Production
Board. Morison joined the Justice De-
partment as a special assistant to the
attorney-general for wartime contract
negotiations. Later as head of the
claims division of the department, he
successfully prosecuted the contempt
cases against John L. Lewis and
the United Mine Workers.

Morison also defended the govern-
ment in numerous loyalty review trials,
and in the multi-million dollar claims
arising from the Texan City, Tex.
waterfront disaster of 1947. He served
as counsel for the economic stabiliza-
tion agency before going into the anti-
trust division as assistant attorney-
general.

Morison is now residing in Washing-
ton, D.C., and is a partner with the
firm of Morison, Murphy, Clapp and
Abrams.

Morison is an officer in the Marine

UCA To Hold
Annual Service

The annual Christmas Candlelight
Service, sponsored by the University
Christian Association, will be held in
the Robert E. Lee Memorial Episcopal
Church on Wednesday, Dec. 14, at
10 p.m. Dr. David Sprunt, Associate
Dean of Students, will serve.as pre-
siding minister.

The speaker will be Dr. James L.
Mays, Associate Professor of Biblical
Studies at Union Theological Seminary
in Richmond.

The choir will be composed of the
Washington and Lee Glee Club, which
will sing two motets, “Silent Night,”
and “I Know a Rose E’re Blooming.”
Edwin Maupin, a senior at W&L, will
play the organ. The John Graham
Brass Band will present the prelude
and the postlude.

The offering which will be taken up
at the service will go to the Christ-
mas Project of the Rockbridge Wel-
fare Board.

Arnold McKay, Phi Kap sophomore,
is chairman of the service.

 

ture.

Photographers were there and took
a few pictures of the original flag
raising, but, he added, they weren't
good, “they were only authentic.”

Realizing that the final picture, using

 

Corps reserve. He was a captain in
the USMC and saw action in the Pa-
cific theater during the war.

A devoted alumnus of Washington
and Lee, Morrison has served as trus-
tee of the alumni fund of the uni-
versity. While at W&L he was
a member of Phi Gamma Delta, ODK,
Phi Delta Phi, and Phi Beta Kappa.
Morison, a close friend of President
Harry Truman, was instrumental in
drawing the former president to
Washington and Lee last year to key-
note the mock convention.

The announcement of Morison’s visit
was made by Warren Goodwin, presi-
dent of Alpha Circle, Omicron Delta
Kappa. Other officers in the organi-
zation are: Henry Harrell, secretary-
treasurer, and Prof. Rupert N. Latture,
faculty advisor and charter member.

Change Made
In 2nd Semester
Registration

A modified procedure for second
semester registration was announced
today by Dr. William W. Pusey, III,
Dean of the College.

A list of courses for which he is
registered for the second semester
will be provided each student (except
in the School of Law). These lists must
be picked up by students at the Regis-
trar’s Office next week between Mon-
day, Dec. 12 and Friday, Dec. 16.

Students will then have the oppor-
tunity to consider their second se-
mester schedules carefully over the
Christmas holidays. All changes for
the second semester will have to be
made on Thursday and Friday, Jan.
5 and 6, in consultation with the stu-
dent’s adviser or major professor; in-
formation on how changes can be
made will be attached to each student’s
course list. It is emphasized that no
changes (except those directly result-
ing from first semester failure in-
curred after this time) can be made
on the opening day of the second
semester, as in the past.

Dr. Pusey stressed that those of-
ficials dealing with registration felt
that the course lists would be of great
assistance to students in verifying be-
fore the semester begins their second
semester programs and detecting er-
rors and modification that seemed
necessary. Advisers and major pro-
fessors will be available as in the past
on the stated days in January to assist
students in making desirable changes.

 

relations men sent the picture to
Washington.
PR Men Took Over

“The public relations men in Wash-
ington took over,’ he said. The gim-

a real Indian, would be “terrific” for! mick was to bring the sixth man, Ira
promoting War Bond Sales, the public! Hayes, to Washington to push the sale

 

Photo on left is “fake,” says Miller, one on right is authentic. Photos reprinted from the book “Iwo Jima: Amphibious

Epic.”

—Young Photos

*

 

 

Cremony

 

es

H. Graham Morison

 

Fancy Dress Costume Sales
Exceed Those Of Last Year

Initial figures on the 1961 Fancy
Dress costume sales indicate that sales
were considerably higher than last
year. Three hundred seventy-four
were sold during the first period of
costume sales, which compares with the
308 that were sold during the same
time last year.

Mrs. Arlene Stover from Oak Hall
in Roanoke said that students seemed
to show much greater enthusiasm for
the dance than they have in the past
few years. Mrs. Stover will return to
W&L on January 10 and 11 to com-
plete the ordering and measuring for
costumes.

Mrs. Stover emphasized the fact that
the members of the figure must send
her the measurements for their dates
by Dec. 14. She must have the meas-
urements for bust, waist, hips, dress
size, weight, height, hat and length
from waist to ankle by this date.

She also remarked that other stu-
dents who have not sent in measure-
ments should do so as soon as possible.
Those students who sent the measure-
ments in earliest will receive the best
costumes. They should send them to:
Arlene Stover, Oak Hall, in Roanoke.

Those students who have ordered
their costumes and decide to cancel

of war bonds to war-weary Ameri-
cans.

When Hayes got to Washington he
was sent on a War Bond tour, when
he wasn’t even in the original picture!

Ira Hayes died a drunken death
five years later, Miller said. “So I
wrote a TV play about him.”

Raise Question

Miller’s point in raising the question
about the validity of both the statue
and the famous picture was to em-
phasize the interference that a writer
for mass media encounters when he
presents a play on television.

When plans for the play were form-
alized, he said, protests began pour-
ing in from many sources.

“Even the United States Bureau of
Indian Affairs protested,” he said,
“for there are no drunken Indians.”

In a satirical tone, Miller said that
the AP threatened to sue the Nation-
al Broadcasting Company (NBC) for
six million dollars if the play were
shown.

What could one do? he asked.

“In the final telecasting,” he said,
“we said that ‘maybe the picture was
a phony’.”

For Money

Why did I make that concession?
“For money.”

Miller then leveled criticism at the
American public for its tastes in tele-
vision that are reflected in the poor
quality of the network shows.

“When something good is put on
TV, nobody looks at it,” he added.

He cited several recent programs
including “The U-2 Incident” and

 

 

their orders may do so without charge
until January 6. This may be done by
notifying Steve Galef at Box 497,
Lexington, before the Jan. 6. cut-off
date. There will be a charge of $7.00
for all cancellations after this date.
The theme For the Fancy Dress Ball
is Shakespearean, and the costumes are
taken from the periods of six different
Shakespearean plays. The main se-
lection of costumes is from a group

(Continued on page 4)

 

Singing Groups Participate
In Inter-Frat Song Contest

Singing groups from each of Wash-
ington and Lee University’s 18 social
fraternities will compete in an Inter-
fraternity Song Festival tonight.

The competition is scheduled for
8 p.m. in the university’s Lee Chapel.
Prizes will be awarded for the first
and second places in the student con-
test.

Volunteer groups from each of the
fraternities will participate in the festi-
val, which is sponsored by the Wash-
ington and Lee Interfraternity Coun-
cil. The competition is an annual event
on the campus.

: Real or Phony? Asks Miller

“Harvest of Shame” as examples of
excellent television programs that re-
ceived very low ratings in audience
viewing polls. “Where were the peo-
ple?” he asked.

Miller, in a reference to the Amer-
ican motion picture industry said that
U.S. movies have depicted the Nazi
of World War II as members of the
“misguided race.” We, as a race of
democratic people, have tended to “go
soft” on the Nazis as a result of the
movies, he added.

The reason for this, he pointed out,
is because the Germans pour more
money into American made films than
any other foreign country.

Again emphasizing the importance
of money, Miller said, “The one word
of the century—money.”

Miller was the last of the three
Glasgow lecturers apeparing at W&L
this year. Poet John Ciardi and Novel-
est William Humphrey were the other
two lecturers. Humphrey wrote the
popular novel Home From the Hill.

Dr. A. R. Borden, chairman of the
Glasgow Endowment Committee, in-
troduced Miller last night.

Wednesday night Miller spoke on
“Bach on a Musical Saw” in which
he dealt with the motion picture in-
dustry. He also criticized almost all
of the mass media in his lecture.

NOTICE
The Forensic Union will meet Mon-
day at 7:15 p.m. in the Student Union
to debate the question: “Resolved that
the Electoral College should be abol-
ished,” Bill Remington will speak for
the negative, Ed Berman, the positive.
Page 2

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

Che Ring-tum Phi
Our Honor System

There has been much said and written of
late concerning the current status of the Wash-
ington and Lee honor system. We hold it a
healthy sign that the ramifications of this sys-
tem are being examined and questioned by
the student body at large and the campus me-
dia. Contrary to the belief of a few, this honor
system belongs to the student body—and not
to the Executive Committee alone, or to the
administration, or to the centuries of precious
heritage. The students of Washington and Lee
instituted it, and they renew its vitality from
year to year. Only through the support of
succeeding generations of students can this
honor system be sustained.

If, however, student support of the honor
system or dedication to its purposes diminishes,
then the true and underlying strength of the
system itself is jeopardized. This is a far greater
cause for alarm than over or under loading.
It becomes incumbent upon the Executive
Committee in session to concern itself with
the sentiment of the 1200 men who comprise
the bulk of this academic community. Ob-
viously, this sentiment takes various forms.
The Executive Committee must discern the
majority will from the arguments and com-
ments heard.

The Student Body Handbook affords the
responsibility of interpretation and mainten-
ance of the honor system to “the public opin-
ion of the student generation involved.” If this
system was not flexible to the demands of an
evolving academic life, by virtue of its own
decadence it would be lost—amid contempor-
ary values, it would seem archaic, and would in-
duce lip service and utter disregard rather than
dedication.

We all know General Lee’s definition of
honor: ‘We have but one rule, our students
are gentlemen.” Even this short, concrete
statement implies that the rule is ours—his
“we” has no other connotation. Washington
and Lee’s honor system is its student body. It
is not an obscure, idealistically conceived char-
ter fled away to be used as a symbol of authori-
ty by an oligarchical Executive Committee;
nor is it an abstract quality to which we pay
homage; nor again, is it a set of legislated rules
defining those areas of student life which fall
subject to requirements of honor. It is rather
manifest in the opinions, the ideals, and the

Old Family Custom Runs Aground
When Craven Hits Snag In Gym

By THORNS CRAVEN
Friday Columnist

logic of those students presently attending this
university.

The Executive Committee, therefore, is
only representative of this contemporary at-
titude. It is not, as a few might hold, composed
of qualified interpreters of honor, who con-
demn and condone for the betterment of the
less qualified student majority.

If it is ever the opinion of the student
generation attending this university, acting
in good faith, that the honor system itself is
not worthy of student support, then we respect
their right to abolish the code, although we
may, at present, differ with their appraisal.

We conclude, therefore, that the student
body has the inalienable right to question, to
dispute or to champion revision of any appli-
cation of our honor system. Furthermore,
this voice must be heard. In the event that a
situation such as that provoked by the trans-
ference of dance plans arises, although the
opposing stands may have individual merit,
we must adopt the view shared by the student
majority. When the decision is made, either
by a poll of the Executive Committee or refer-
endum (the latter, we contend, should be used
more often), it should reflect the will of the stu-
dent body. Such an endorsement would neces-
sarily guarantee support.

One of the virtues, then, of our honor
system is that it is flexible. Because of this
flexibility, the honor system should always exist
at the pleasure of the student body in attend-
ance. The honor system does not “support
various fields of student activity” (as the
Tuesday Edition suggests), nor does it, like
a crutch, support a student body with an ideal
of honor in the midst of dishonorable tenden-
cies. Rather, honor-conscious individuals of
this university support the honor system and
all of its manifestations. Theirs is the right,
nay the duty to establish a sound basis for
their devotion. To those who would legislate
honor for posterity and declare their inter-
pretation inspired and permanent, we reply
with the following remark from Colton:

“Honor is unstable, and seldom the same,
for she feeds upon opinion, and is as fickle
as her food. She builds a lofty structure on
the sandy foundation of the esteem of those
who are of all beings the most subject to

change.”
The Late Dr.

Editor’s Note: The following article

 

 

As the weeks go on and I continue
to write this column, I find myself
wondering what there will be to write
about next week. It
is a problem, but so
far some solution
has presented itself.
All I really have to
do is walk around
the campus for an
afternoon and I
pass column after
column. And walk-
ing toward the
dandy gym last
week I ran into a
few columns on the
inside of this maninificent structure.

I was going to the gym to get in
shape for my key job of refereeing in-
tramural basketball games (this jour-
nalism activity pays next to nothing),
but all the punching bags were check-
ed out, so I shot some basketball by my-
self, After about ten minutes of gruel-
ling exercise I decided that I was in
good shape, so I decended into the
bowels of the building for a shower.

I checked out a towel, took my
shower, got dressed and then was
confronted with an almost insurmount-
able problem—I tried to check my
towel back in.

A little golden haired man smoking
a corn cob asked me what I wanted,
and tried to give me a new clean, dry
towel.

“TI don’t want one,” I said politely,
“I want to check one in.”

“You can’t check towels out,” he
said with a scowl.

“I don’t want to check one out; I’m
through with this one.” I showed him
my wet limp, formless towell that was
beautifully embroidered with “Steves-
ville.”

This seemed too much for him, and
his corn-cob began to pop. Again, he
sputtered, “You can’t check towels
out.”

“But, sir, I want to check one in,”
I pleaded.

“What did you check it out for?”

Well, it’s a custom in my family, go-
ing back several generations, to dry

 

Craven

 

off after showers. That way you don’t
get as cold, and your clothes stay
drier. I had a hard time explaining
this, but finally got through. He took
my towel, and asked me what I'd
checked it out with.

“A check-out slip sir.”

So I explained what they were, got
mine back, promised to be a good boy,
to do my daily dozen (or is it DAILY
DOZEN?), and swore that I'd never
check out another towel. And now that
I’ve written this I’m haunted with fears
that I may be sentenced to P.E. 12 for
two years, or have my cuts cancelled,
or even worse that I'll be denied a
diploma if the authorities find out

was published in the July 1960
edition of Naval Aviation News. It
is a tribute written to the late Dr.
George H. Foster, a Washington and
Lee faculty member who died on
Nov. 26, 1959. During World War
II, Dr. Foster was a Lieutenant
Commander in the U.S. Naval Re-
serve.

In a ceremony on 17 May in the
office of Adm. R. B. Pirie, Deputy
Chief of Operations (Air), the Navy’s
Distinguished Public Service Award
was given in honor of the late George
Harding Foster, Sense Pamphlet writer.

The citation for the posthumous
award, signed by the Secretary of the

 

that when I jumped from the balcony
into the pool I protected myself with
my left hand instead of the required
right hand.

So watch out when you're walking
into columns. It might be the gym,
and Lord knows what that entails.

 

PDP Elects New Officers

Phi Delta Phi Legal Fraternity has

elected officers for the spring semester. |

This is one of the three honorary fra-
ternities in the law school here. The
officers selected at the meeting held
Thursday at the Robert E. Hotel were
Michale Masinter, president; Macon
Putney, clerk; Dick Lang, treasurer;
and Leigh Ansell, historian.

The outgoing officers were: Robert
Gilliam, president; Bob Frank, clerk;
Bill Moore, treasurer; and Paul Bolt,
historian.

Navy, stated that it was given “for
Mr. Foster’s outstanding contributions
| to the Department of the Navy in the
fields of flight safety and aviation
training. Through his unfailing under-
standing of the problems ever present
in military flying, Mr. Foster consist-
ently provided timely and pointed-
ly humorous texts, bringing to the
readers most easily understood and re-
tained.”

After describing the great contri-
| bution Mr, Foster had made to Naval
Aviation, Admiral Pirie pinned the
| medal on young Ned Foster, the 13-
| year-old son of the writer, and gave
| him the framed citation. Mrs. Foster,
| her other son, Billy, and her brother,
, William Hudson, were present on this
| occasion.

Mr. Foster was the second member
of the partnership of Osborn, Foster
‘and Smith, a company which has
produced all the Sense Pamphlets for

 

 

Confusion Reigns In West Berlin
Over U.S. Monitary Problems

A friend who is studying in Ger-
many wrote recently about Secretary
Anderson’s visit to Bonn: “it is a

. very consistent pol-
' icy which says, on
the one hand, that
we will defend
Berlin to the last
man, and on the
other says that if,
the dollar is threat- |
ened, we will move
troops out of Ger-
many.” While usu- :
ally uninvolved in|
affairs of state, I!
can imagine my!
friend’s concern with this diplomatic
blunder as he attempts an explanation
to his colleagues.

There is a certain mystery in why
this balance of payments problem was
so long ignored and suddenly, even
hysterically come to grips with. There
must have been considerable conserva-
tive frustration to even propel forces
ready to face the problem.

Hero-Father Alarmed

The prudent hero-father who has
steadied us through eight years and
three recessions was alarmed. The
dollar was at stake and he, who
has been taught all his life to react,
came through with a diplomatic spasm.

We, the American people, have been
carried to the heights of personal di-
plomacy with pictures of handshakes,
statistics of mileage covered, headlines
of Camp David, or visits to Kishi. As
if this were not enough we are now
confronted with a Bursur who also
feels his administration-given right to
sweep aside diplomatic protocol.

This diplomatic unpreparedness
found the Chancellor, Finance Minis-
ter Erhard and their colleagues any-
thing but rehearsed for the Treasurer’s
obsession with support cost for the
army and his determination to discuss
nothing else.

Not Surprised

Mr. Erhard and the Chancellor were
not surprised to be asked to help the
U.S. government with its balance of
payments problem. The _ speculator’s
attack on the dollar and the gold price
is at the same time an attack to sterl-
ing, the French franc, and indirectly
to the mark. Erhard did offer pre-
payment of the 650 million dollar
German debt for American aid, which
is not due to be paid off for another
20 years or so; and other measures
which he estimated would improve the
balance of payments by another 500

 

   

eee

Ketcham

 

George H, Foster Given
Navy’s Distinguished Service Award

Naval Aviation since World War IL.
Mr. Foster served the Navy in the Re-
serve in WW II during which he ad-
vanced to the rank of lieutenant com-
mander. In the early part of the war,
he served as an air combat intelli-
gence officer with a patrol squadron.
Later in 1944, he came to DCNO (Air)
and was a Sense Pamphlet writer from
then on.

Mr. Foster, at the time of his death
on 26 November 1959, was a profes-
sor at Washington and Lee University,
Lexington, Va., where he had been a
faculty member since WW II. He
earned his doctorate degree at the Uni-
versity of North Carolina.

In 1954, Naval Aviation News re- |
ported: “He has the proud record of
having produced more Sense Pam-
phlets than any other writer con-
nected with Training Lit.” And this
number was greatly augmented in the
years since that statement was made.

Mr. Foster’s work was marked by
brilliancy, wit, and thoroughness.
Though not a Naval Aviator, Mr.
Foster handled each subject so ac-
curately that no pilot found his work
anything but authentic. Many of the!
Sense Pamphlets at the end of WW II,
and all of the Aviation Training Sense
Pamphlets since 1946, as well as all
those revised and brought up to date,
were written or edited by Mr. Foster.

In a steady succession of Sense
Pamphlets, Mr. Foster revealed an in- |
creasing facility to deal with difficult
concepts in such a way that pilots
would get the word, heed the warning
and escape the fate of witless Dilberts. |
Under such titles as Instrument Flying

 

 

 

val procedure in the jet age; and Shark

By ROBERT KETCHAM
Friday Columnist

million. These were also ignored.

The Anderson proposal that the Ger-
mans immediately assume the $600
million support costs of the U.S. troops
in Germany was a ridiculous and radi-
cal gesture. Such proposals which go
to the very heart of the Western al-
liance can hardly build the Allied
confidence in which the U.S. adminis-
tration takes such pride.

Doubtless the prospering countries
do need to discuss and shoulder com-
mon NATO burdens but such a block-
buster is not called for. Furthermore,
the impression might be that our
contributions to NATO are nothing
more than a gift to Europe instead of
a concrete investment in our country’s
defense.

Something Is Wrong

The recent gold speculation on the
London market as well as the $10
billion lost in reserves in the past
three years raises a presumption that
something is wrong. The Economist
states that “America’s present pay-

ments deficit is so much the result| .

of special non-commercial payments
that its future course could not be
predicted by any economist, however
far sighted.”

One thing we do know, there is
no free market for our gold. The pres-
ent situation is quite artificial. The
Federal Reserve sells gold to central
banks and monetary authorities “for
legitimate monetary purposes” at $35
an ounce. In its simplest terms, dollars
are Officially convertible into gold
by one group, central banks and
monetary authorities, and not by any-
one else wishing to pay the pegged
price or more. However, there is no
possibility for American authorities
to prevent those two groups from
trading with each other.

The central banks do not sell or
speculate to any extent on the free
market in London; in fact these banks
abandoned the London gold market
during the recent rise and it was left
to speculators. It seems to me that
a necessary forward step would be
to actively encourage those central
banks to sell to anyone who wishes
to pay more than $35 an ounce rather
than leave the matter to the specu-
lators.

A more obvious discrepency involves
the private investment capital which
goes abroad. This money is placed on
the liability side of the balance of
payments, in layman terms, and makes
it seems as if we are losing when
money flows abroad.

 

Dr. George H. Foster

Sense, GCA Sense, Swept and Delta
Wing Sense, and Night Flying Sense,
Mr. Foster packed urgent instructions.

Since 1957, these Sense Pamphlets
have been released by DCNO (Air):
Carrier Sense which gives a convinc-
ing and informative run-down on the
optical landing system; Ditching Sense
and later Bail-out and Ejection Sense
which give the latest words on survi-

Sense, Simulator Sense, and Collision
Sense which were among the last Mr.
Foster wrote.

The pamphlets Mr. Foster produced
since 1954 were the products of a

(Continued on page 4)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

| )

l

P /aH220,

var" V4 US

ee

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

I feel that this creates a false im-
pression; it makes outflow capital look
harmful when in actuality this is not
so. For the Federal Government to
call Mr. Ford and ask him to recon-

(Continued on page 4)

 

Slater Brings
Oriental Touch
To South-W&L

By MALCOLM BROWNLEE
Friday Columnist

“Oh boy, liver and onions,” said the
boy as he sat down at one of the
front tables in the
Washington and

Lee dining hall.
“Well, I'll be a
son of a gun if it
isn’t,” his friend
said. “Best thing in
the world outside
of hominy grits and

   

ae first. “I was just
Brownlee telling Joe a few

minutes ago that I
sure hoped we’d have liver and onions
tonight.”

“Sure folks like steak and all that
fancy stuff, but as for me, just give
me liver and onions any day.”

“You've said it.”

“You can get tired of steak after
a while, but I can’t imagine ever get-
ting tired of liver and onions.”

“Say you guys,” said the first to
the rest of the table, “does anybody
not want their liver and onions?”

No one at the table answered.
“Would you like for me to get you
some more?” asked the waiter. “Hey,
men, who wants more meat?”

It was a silly question, for, of course,
everybody wanted more liver and
onions. The waiter departed in quest
of the desired meat. “Say, guys,” said
the first boy, “we sure do have wonder-
ful waiters, don’t we?”

“The best in the world, and there’s
no doubt about it,” said the second.
“I just wish I was rich enough to tip
them.”

“Me, too; they sure deserve it. Would
you pass the potatoes?”

The second boy handed him a steam-
ing dish of mashed potatoes. “They’re
powdered,” he said.

“Great,” said the first; don’t you
think they’re much better powdered?”

“Not a hair’s doubt about it. Just
= to show you what science can

is.”

“Gee, this whole deal is a wonderful
set up, isn’t it?”

“Yeah. I wonder how in the world
Mr. Slater does it. Can you imagine
anybody else serving a meal like this
for this low price?”

“Yes, as far as good appetizing food
goes, it just can’t be beaten.”

“It seems almost as impossible as a
ship in a whiskey bottle, doesn’t it?”

“No,” said the first, “that’s a little
too strong. This is the type place you
find all over America. America, the
land in which the meaning of impos-
sible is not known,”

“America, the land of good food
and inexpensive restaurants.”

“This is the type of thing which
could happen only in America,” said
the first.

“It’s the type of thing which could
happen only in the South,” said the
second,

The two boys finished their meal
and left. They spoke with no trace of
a foreign accent. Only by looking at
them could you tell they were Chinese.

Che Ring-tum Phi
Friday Edition

The Ring-tum Phi is published Tues-
day and Friday ng the college year.
It is printed by the Journalism Labor-
pod A Prone. ampnaton and Lee Uni-
versity. e maili
Gh Ecathaton vane address is Box

Entered ag second class matt =
tember 20, 1946 at the Post Office. o
ington, Va., under the act of March

8, ‘

National Advertising Re
The National Advertisers
420 Madison Ave,,

 

resentative:
ervice, Inc.,
New York, N.Y.

Editor-in-Chief................ Nathan Simpson
Business Manager.............. Huntley Biggs

Editorial Board

Managing Fditor.............. George
Assistant Managing editor. ‘alan —
swkoy Goodwin
vines Andy Nea
-Bill Outman
«Tom Rains

-Tom Jordan
Edward Holmes
el Peter Agelesto
SiH sseabadiendinel Don McFall

  
 
  
  

NOTICE

Copy deadline for the Ring-tum
Phi is as follows:
Page 2—Thursday, 2 p.m.
Page 1—Friday, 8:30 a.m.
All columnists and reporters are
asked to observe these deadlines.
—The Editorial Board

 

 
THE RING-TUM PHI Page 3

Face Catholic U. Here Tomorrow

General Swimmers Rout “Tough’ U.Va., 59-36

managed to better teammate Robin
Dunlap and two hapless Wahoos as
he grabbed first with a winning time
of 2:26.4.

The Generals captured the four
remaining events, and thus knocked
off Virginia for the second straight

year.

Coach Norris Eastman seems real
pleased with his team thus far, but
in his rather modest manner, all that
he will admit is:

“Sure we’ve won these first two
meets, but what I’m looking for are
those victories over West Virginia and
East Carolina, to say nothing of Mary-
land.”

Although these meets are some time
in the distant future, a more immedi-
ate consideration hinges around a meet
that the Generals have this Saturday
with Catholic University of Wash-
ington, D.C.

While nothing is known of their
relative strength, the Generals are
hoping to make this win number
three. The meet will begin at 3:15.

PPeererrsearroeeaedenwin
ROBERT E. LEE

 

in right behind him in this event,
by midway in the meet, W&L com-
manded a 31-21 lead.

The Wahoos managed to pick up
the remainder of their points in the
200-yd. butterfly and the 400-yd. free-
style, but this was only a ripple com-
pared to the force that W&L sent
against them.

Mike Harris turned in the afternoon’s
most surprising victory as he placed
first in the 200-yd. backstroke. Mike

The Generals’ co-captain, Jim Park-
er, sparked his team forward as he
breezed to a first place in the 50-yd.
freestyle in 22.7 seconds. Teammate
Charlie Gummey came in right be-
hind him in a close second.

splashed to seven first places during
the course of the afternoon.

After dropping the opening 400-
yd. medley relay to the Wahoos,
W&L’s Charlie Hart and Charlie
Stevenson came back in the 220-yd.
freestyle event, moments later, and
captured the two first places in this
event. This put W&L out in front,
and the Wahoos never came closer
than ten points the rest of the meet.

Coach Norris Eastman and his var-
sity swimming team added to the woes
of our neighbors to the North last
Tuesday, as they scored a decisive
victory over the University of Vir-
ginia, 59-36.

Sophomore Herb Jancke, a stand-
out in the meet with Roanoke last
week, continued his win streak as he
placed first in the 200-yd. individual
medley. Teammate Steve Stull came

Before a crowd of about 50 stal-
warts who dared to brave the heat
and humidity of the “Olympic Pool”
located in the basement of our own
Doremus Gymnasium, the Generals

W&L Scoring Punch Still Sagging As Yellowjackets
Coast To 75-49 Win; Sewanee Here Saturday Night

lenge R-MC after midway through
the first half.

Guard Brett Thackston, who paced
the W&L scoring with 16 points, was
high scorer for the game.

Ken Kowalski contributed 11 points
to the Generals’ attack.

For the first time this season, the
Generals had a good percentage from
the free throw line, hitting 11 of 16
for 67.8 per cent.

ankle injury, the Generals gave the defense was loose. Randolph-Macon
Yellow Jackets little opposition on shot at will and made 32 of 69 at-
the boards. R-MC pulled down 56 tempts from the floor—an excellent
rebounds, the Generals, 32. 46.4 percentage.

Coach Bob McHenry hopes that Mc- Washington and Lee lost the basket-
Dowell will be ready for the Generals’ pall 32 times on erorrs, but offset these
Saturday encounter with the Univer- errors somewhat by capitalizing on
sity of the South at Doremus Gym- 22 Randolph-Macon mistakes.
nasium at 8 p.m. :

Randolph-M: ff to

Nothing worked right for the Gen- 7_9 int, pg ee took <
erals Thursday night at Ashland. vantage of some early Yellow Jacket

For the fourth straight game, the
lack of a scoring punch sank Wash-
ington and Lee’s basketball team into
the depths of defeat Thursday night.

The Generals, who made only 19
of 62 shtos from the floor—a 30.6
percentage—suffered their second 25-
point plus defeat of the week as Ran-
dolph-Macon’s Yellow Jackets waltzed
to a 75-49 win at Ashland.

Minus John McDowell, 6-6 fresh-

 

 

 

JOHN McDOWELL
W&L’s Freshmen

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

.++6- ter who is sidelined with Even the Generals’ t
6-6 Center man cen an usually tigh oat seis nt Oe R-MC lead toy, Randolph-Macon win “en 4 BARBERSHOP
=—_ — team ort as Coach Paul Webb David M. Moore
Z But the ‘Jackets’ Frank Kaminski, a ;
Wrestlers Tackle Franklin And Marshall, NYU bight scott Frank Kaminski) used ten players Proprietor
‘ in seven straight points to boost | S#PPEETEEEETEEEEEEEEEEES | Lagat debt hee
On Northern Trip, Seek First Victory Of Season = ®¥c+ 10 2.0. NEW TOWN INN
After that, the Yellow Jackets, % =
A sophomore-dominated wrestling Coach Dick Miller is boasting a his team. sparked by John Bunsavage’s re- Short Orders—Lunches : Traditional
team from Washington and Lee will 32-man squad, down slightly from In his lower weight classes, Miller bounding and Buddy Allen’s fancy : W&L BLAZER
invade Northern territory this week- last year’s total of 45, with nine re- is depending on sophomore Dave Mont-__ floor play, rolled to a 40-26 halftime Catering to Students With University Crest
end in an effort to right its season’s turning lettermen. The 1959-60 Gen- gomery, a letterman, to handle the 130- _lead. : o* $6obeeeeeneet ne Vee
opening loss. erals wound up with a 7-2 season. pound spot. Robert Robinson, a fresh- The Generals did not seriously chal- $446444464 and Buttons
The Generals are scheduled to face They face a 10-match card this man, will probably be the season’s key | The
powerful Franklin and Marshall—a year. man in the lightweight 123-pound TOLLEY’S PHARMACY COLLEGE TOWN
team they’ve never beaten—today and place. : Hamric and Sheridan P iptions Filled
they’ll travel to New York City fora | “We're loaded with depth this year _ Team captain Sandy Mersereau, a Shop
sealed junior who closed out last season with JEWELERS Immediately
match with New York University to- except in the 123-pound spot where ] : t season will iis tion & ‘
morrow night. we're weak and our experience is bet- 4 7-1 record, will be holding down his Watch and Jewelry Repair PURCHASE DRUGS ge Accounts
Last week, the W&L matmen suffer- ter than average even though a great usual 147-pound position on the new Hand Engraving and Class Rings HO 3-2211 Welcomed
ed a 16-15 defeat at the hands of the deal of it is from the boys’ high school squad. Sophomore Alex Alexander is HO 3-2022
University of North Carolina. days,” Miller said in an appraisal of (Continued on page 4)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Soe

 

 

Telephone engineer Bill Pigott, left, and helicopter pilot plan aerial exploration for microwave tower sites.

“| ENGINEERED MICROWAVE TOWER LOCATIONS
ON MY FIRST ASSIGNMENT"

When Bill Pigott knocked on the door of
Pacific Telephone, he had two big assets. One
was an electrical engineering degree from Seattle
University. The other was a craving to jump
right into vital engineering problems.

It was not long before Bill was exploring
Washington’s rugged Cascade Range in a heli-
copter to find sites for microwave relay towers
—part of a multimillion dollar telephone con-
struction job. Today, it’s considerable satisfac-
tion to him to see these towers spanning the
mountains, knowing that his planning helped
put them there.

can possibly find.”

FREDERICK R. KAPPEL, President

 

“Our number one aim is to have in all
management jobs the most vital, intelli-
gent, positive and imaginative men we

American Telephone & Telegraph Co.

Other important assignments followed: engi-
neering maritime radio systems, SAGE systems
—figuring engineering costs for Air Force Titan

missile bases.

“Our people respect a man’s engineering
training—you really get a chance to show what
you've got on the ball,”’ Bill says. ‘I was up to
my neck in tough engineering problems right

from the start.”

If you want a job where you put your training
to work from the day you hang up your hat—yow’l
want to visit your Placement Office for literature

and additional information.

 

BELL TELEPHONE COMPANIES

 

This airplane is actually a flying
classroom. The course taught in it
is Air Navigation, under real con-
ditions. The students are young
men who have been selected as pos-
sible future leaders of the Aero-
space Team. Graduation after 32
weeks of training will win each of
the students the honored silver
wings of an Air Force Navigator
and an Officer’s Commission.

For certain young men, this
training can open the way to a
bright career of executive poten-
tial. Right now the Air Force is
scoring impressive technological
advances in the fields of naviga-
tion, guidance and tracking, elec-
tronics and radar. And here is
where its highly trained and expe-
rienced Navigators will be expected
to take over command positions of
increasing responsibility.

To qualify for Navigator train-
ing as an Aviation Cadet, you must
be between 19 and 26%—single,
healthy and intelligent. And you
must want to build an exciting,
interesting career in the Aerospace
Age. If you think you measure up,
we'd like to talk to you at the near-
est Air Force Recruiting Office.
Or clip and mail this coupon.

There’s a place for tomorrow’s

leaders on the
L . S.

Force

Air

 

 

ee eee eee eee ane Ge GED GEES GED GED GD END "

| MAIL THIS COUPON TODAY |
AVIATION CADET INFORMATION

| Depr. |

| BOX 7608, WASHINGTON 4, D.C. |
| am between 19 and 2612, a citizen

| of the U.S. and a high school graduate |
with years of college. Please |

| send me detailed information on the

| Aviation Cadet program. |

) hintaan: 1

| streer. |

Se

i ie |

‘ccantee iccar masked cael

 

 

 

 

 

HAVE ALWAYS HAD an
ony hatred for the bottom crust
of rye bread. There is no particular
reason for making this point, except
that whenever I think of Fort
Lauderdale, I think of rye bread.
There is no particular reason for that
either, but I have been thinking of
Fort Lauderdale. Fort Lauderdale is
“where the boys are.’ Right now,
that is. Most of the time, serenity
reigns in Fort Lauderdale. (The
Chamber of Commerce will hate me;
they say it never rains in Fort
Lauderdale.) But, for two weeks,
twenty thousand collegians descend
on this peaceful community and take
it apart, peace by peace. They call
it Spring Vacation, but it’s more like
amateur night at Cape Canaveral.
They capture Florida and throw the
Keys away. But I shouldn’t joke—
not while people are holding mass
prayer meetings for an early hurri-
cane season.

This is “where the boys a...’ And
girls, too. Such girls, it makes you
dizzy to look at them. If you look long
enough, you reach an advanced
stage of dizziness called aphro-
dizzier. It’s like being in love. That’s
what happened to me, and it will
happen to you, too. Everywhere you
turn — beaches full of them, motels
and hotels full of them, cars full of
them, pools full of them, bathing
suits full of them. Ah, bathing suits

. when the man said, “It’s the
little things in life that count,” he
must have been thinking of bathing
suits, But mostly, it’s the girls.

Girls in love, girls in trouble, bright
girls with a future, not-so-bright
girls with a past, rich girls in the lap
of luxury, poor girls in any lap
that’ll have them, girls of every size
and discretion. It isn’t any wonder
that this is “where the boys are.”
And the things that happen are
wacky and wild and wicked and
warmly wonderful “where the boys
are.” Someone should make a movie
about it. Hey, someone did! M-G-M
calls it ‘“‘Where The Boys Are,”
starring Dolores Hart, George Hamil-
ton, Yvette Mimieux, Jim Hutton,
Barbara Nichols, Paula Prentiss, with
Frank Gorshin and introducing popu-
lar recording star Connie Francis
in her first screen role. You'll

want to see all the things
that happen ‘‘Where The
Boys Are.”

      
  
  
   

Ay

presents

“WHERE THE BOYS ARE”

A Euterpe production os
in CinemaScope and
METROCOLOR.
Screenplay by George Wells,
based on the novel by ey)\\
Glendon Swarthout. ey
Directed by Henry Levin.

 

Produced by Joe Pasternak,
ADNO. 636
Page 4

Confusion Reigns In W. Berlin

(Continued from page 2)

sider buying his way into Great
Britain’s auto industry because to do
so would adversely affect our balance
of payments seems rather ill advised.
Mr. Ford, being a businessman, is
certainly not throwing away all those
dollars just to make our balance of
payments look bad.

I would imagine he expects to real-
ize a fair return from that money for
himself and his American stockholders.
Any temporary harm that comes from
looking at the balance sheet should
bear in mind the greater return.

The new “Gold Dollar Widow
Order” for dependents of American
troops, “our soldiers are used to hard-
ships, they won’t mind,” or the of-
fensive “Buy America” acts rely on
the same type of budget-infested
thinking that hunts for narrow ra-
tionale and simple solutions.

Must Achieve Position

We must achieve a better competi-
tive position for the United States
(note that our exports are up, even
autos) while working with our allies

 

 

SEG ee Me ds la

STATE

LEXINGTON, VA.

|_MOBART 3-3424 |

 

 

WED. through SAT.

ft f

 

—added—

Football

Thrills of 1960

 

SUN. - MON. - TUES

The Hendiinis

JEFF CHANDLER
JOHN SAXON
DOLRES HART

 

 

for new monetary arrangements and a
more apportioned sharing of aid and
defense expenditures. These weighty
matters did not develop during one
night’s sleep, as some persons might
think, nor can they be so quickly
solved.

We can thank the Secretary for
bringing the problem emphatically to
our attention and only hope that it
may now be solved by more reasonable
and rational men.

The ROTC Department will pre-
sent Major Tyson Wilson of VMI
to speak on the “Development of
the Frontier by the U.S. Army dur-
ing the period from 1815 to 1860.”

 

 

Wrestlers Tackle F@M

(Continued from page 3)

spotted for the 137-pound category.
Miller suffered a severe loss in team
strength in senior Drew Danko. This
utility man was knocked out with a
shoulder injury in pre-season work-
outs.

| ee Re

 

 

 

THE RING:

FD Costumes Sales Increase

(Continued from page 1)

of Egyptian, Roman, Medieval, Renais-
sance and Elizabethan representations.

In other Dance Board activity,
James Vann, Dance Board president,
announced that those student who have
not yet paid for their Dance Plans
are still obligated for the $25 amount.
They may pay this by getting in touch
with him, or by giving their check
to a member of the Dance Board.

 

Navy Recognizes Dr. Foster

(Continued from page 2)

perceptive, gifted writer. What was
said of one Sense Pamphlet applies to
all those written during these years;
“The style of George Foster’s writing
is not conducive to putting the
booklet down, and the Bob Osborn
drawings really get across the ideas.
Anyway _ you look at it, it’s bound to
hit home and set you to thinking.”

 

 

It’s Good usiness
To Do usiness
with IERER’S

PHARMACY

 

 

SUN.-MON.

:
feos
THE RANK ORGANIZATION presents A MARCEL HELLMAN PRODUCTION

Ad 9h | Ae
Lj ft

   

who

ore COLOR by DE LUXE

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

THE DUTCH INN

For Reservation Call
MRS. KATHERINE ADAMS
HO 3-3433

 

 

 

 

 

 

Lexington
Laundro Matic

209 S. Main

*

HAND IRONED
SHIRTS

 

 

TEXACO
Super Service Station

Lexington, Virginia
Corner Main and Nelson

Dry Cleaning

Service

for your convenience

 

SCRODOOOOOOHOEHOOOSOOOOOO OOH SOOOOESOOOSEOOOSSOEEES
FOR ROOM RESERVATIONS—CALL HO 3-2151

LEXINGTON MOTEL
Large Rooms—U.
Free TV—Phones—Continental Breakfast
Only Motel in corporate limits of Lexington
© 000000000080 000 8098088900000 088S 0800000088 0008

 

 

HICKMAN’S ESSO

South Main Street
HO 3-2024

 

 

ide added

 

Spencer General
Tire

E. Nelson Street Extension

BEST IN TIRES
GENERAL

Best in Recapping

Kraft Tread

Compact Tires

 

 

 

S. 11 By-Pass South

 

Expert Motor Work
MAIN STREET

 

FOREIGN CARS AND STUDEBAKER LARKS
OUR SPECIALTY

Open 8:00 a.m.—8:00 p.m.
MOBIL STATION

 

 

 

Best in the book for
air travel...

 

  

 

Piedmont Airlines
serves the Top of the South with
fast frequent flights . . . offers connecting

 

service to all parts of the world. Call Piedmont :
Airlines or your Travel Agent for reservations, information.

to CHICAGO

x»

COLUMBUS

ARKERSBURG-
MARIETTA

CINCINNAT?

 
    

to NEW YORK

WASHINGTON 7

 
   

STAUNTON
HARRISONBURG
WAYNESBORO,
CHARLOTTESVILL

 

NEWPORT NEWS -
HAMPT|

CHARLESTON
BECKLEY

LOUISVILLE

ASHEVILLE
HENDERSONVILLE

/

  
     
 

to ATLANTA

  

CHARLOTTE

  
  
 

GREENSBORO

HICKORY wich POINT

FAYETTEVILLE

PINEHURST.
SOUTHERN PINES.
ABLROEEN

... Along the Route of the Pacemakers

Tareyton has

does

 

TUM PHI

Need Twenty Actors

(Continued from page 1)

them and the other boys who have
tried out.”

As for the music and script, Danzan-
sky said that they were still being
completed. He expressed hope that the
script would be finished by the end of
Christmas vacation. The music will be
given to an arranger within the next
few weeks so that he can begin work-
ing on the complicated fifteen instru-
ment score, Several prominent arrang-
ers have already been contacted, in-
cluding one who has done considerable
work for Rodgers and Hammerstein
and who is now retired in Lynchburg.

Meee Goode fe nfe fete of ode ofe ode fe ofe ode fe fe ole ofe ole ake ofe fe ofe
CALL BY NUMBER
and Save Time
LEXINGTON
TELEPHONE Co.

 

Pee oeeeieoh

SWMSFC Try-Outs End;|

Kocen To Edit Law Review

(Continued from page 1)

law professors and case comments by
members of the volume’s staff.

Kocen, 24-year-old honor student,
served as an associate editor this
semester. He is a 1958 Phi Beta Kappa
graduate of Washington and Lee where
he obtained a B.S. in commerce.

He holds a Menkemeller Scholarship,
the largest academic scholarship in

 

Werforfe oe ofergeofe ofeofe ofe fe ofe ofe ofe fe ofe ofe fe ole ofe ode ofe ofe fe OOOO SOOO OHSOOOSOOHOEEDOO OOOO OOOOH OOHOOOOCOOSOOCO

 

 

Dual Filter

e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
e
=
e
e
e
*
e
e
e
*
e
e
e
e
e
*
*
e
e
e
*

Filters for
flavor

—finest flavor by far!

the taste—

It: gag

 

NEW DUAL FILTER la Te

Py aN "aN ”
Product of She iasibon Sibaceo Company — Sobaceo is our middle name ©. 7.00

 

 

 
 
   

 

 

for comfort...quality
.., appearance

The rich texturing of fine oxford,
the skillful tailoring give the assur-
ance of being well-dressed. Case
in point: the Arrow Tabber, the au-
thentic British type improved with
self-snap tabs. Your wardrobe is
incomplete without this Arrow shirt.

cum laude collection

-~ARROW=

1. It combines a unique inner filter of ACTIVATED CHARCOAL
definitely proved to make the taste of a cigarette mild and smooth...

2. with a pure white outer filter. Together they select and balance
the flavor elements in the smoke. Tareyton’s flavor-balance gives
you the best taste of the best tobaccos,

the School of Law. He is a treasurer
of the Student Bar Association and
a member of the student Board of
Governors.

PEPE ebb bees
R. L. Hess and Bro.
JEWELERS

Lexington, Virginia
HO 3-2833

ere ode rde ode ofe forge rhe nfo rhe oho eof rfe ode ode ofe ode ode oe ofefeade

 

ororherterfeofeferfeofory

DIXON’S

ESSO SERVICE CENTER
ROUTE 60 EAST IN LEXINGTON

Across from the White Top Resturant
HO 3-4214

Wash, Grease, Lube, Road Service

Charge Accounts Welcome

Oxford

$5.00

by

-

  

HERE’S HOW THE DUAL FILTER DOES IT:

eyton
 

 

 

 

TUESDAY
Edition

Che King-tum Phi

Washington and Lee Semi-Weekly Newspaper

TUESDAY
Edition

 

Volume LXI

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA, DECEMBER 13, 1960

Number 25

 

 

Application Rate|

Seen Increasing

The steady climb in applications for
admission to Washington and Lee’s
Freshman class is increasing again
this year, Dean F. G. Gilliam said to-
day.

As of December 1, the rate of in-
crease in the number of applications
was 27 per cent higher than 1959, and
59 per cent higher than 1958.

“This year’s increase is smaller than
the increase between 1958 and 1959,”
Dean Gilliam said, “but we expect the
difference in rates of increase to change
before the close of the first term.”

The continued rise in applications
for admission and the limited Fresh-
man housing facilities has caused
Washington and Lee to become more
and more selective each year.

Dean Gilliam pointed out that the
rise in academic standard of the stu-
dents accepted by the University is
seen through the average College Board
scores of the class of 1964, which were
the highest scores of any class in the
history of the University.

Even though the Univerity has al-
ready received many applications, lit-
tle action will be taken before the end
of the first term, he added.

The great majority of decisions are
made by March 1. At that time, those
candidates are informed whose cre-
dentials clearly entitle them to ac-
ceptance. Likewise, candidates whose
credentials show no reasonable pos-
sibility of acceptance also are in-
formed.

All candidates will definitely be in-
formed not later than April 15, he said.

Phi Kaps Win
IFC Song fest

Phi Kappa Sigma won the annual
IFC Songfest and the rotating plaque,
edging out three other fraternity
groups.

The winning entry won the title
with its rendition of “Ride the Chariot”
and “My Lord, What a Morning.” The
Sigma Chi songsters, in second place,
sang “Angelico” and “Away RiRo.”
The group representing Sigma Nu
sang “Angry” and “Slide Trombone,”
and the Sigma Phi Epsilon entry sang
a medley of Christmas carols and
the spiritual, “It’s Me O’ Lord.”

The members of the winning Phi
Kappa Sigma Group are George
Chapman, Jim Mell, Chris Larson, Sam
Channel, Tom Edwards, Chuck Shu-

 

mate, Mac McKay, Dave Spencer,
Ralph Weizandt, Jim Surface, and
Bill Tedards.

The songfest, held in Lee Chapel,
attracted over 150 people. Dr. Borden,
Mr. Stephenson, and Mr. Stewart
served as the judges for the event.

The Sigma Chi group consisted of
Bob Aylin, Robin Dawson, Mark Gee,
Henry Harrell, Billy Martin, Hardie
Karrh, Al Hay, John Refo, John Mon-
tague, and Pete Stelling.

The Sigma Nu Singers were Bud
Lee, Glenn Fidler, Dave Peters, Dick
Reed, Frank D’Lauro, John Dunnell,
John Harcourt, Fred Nelson, “Top”
Logan, and Dave Streetman.

In the SPE group were Woody
Wise, John Tipton, George Peters,
Steve Colvin, Jere Cravens, Bob Grif-
fin, Dick Eaeger, and Palmer Parding-
ton.

 

Language Song Fest Held
The 13th annual Foreign Language

Christmas Songfest was held this af- |

ternoon in duPont Auditorium. The
sing this year included only the French
and German departments. The Spanish
and Russian students did not partici-
pate.

Dr. W. W. Pusey, who has been
master of ceremonies in the past, was
not able to serve this year and was
succeeded by Dr. G. F. Drake.

The program included a mixture of
French and German carols and folk
songs.

William B. Lowry read the Christ-
mas Story in German and John Baker
sang a solo, the German Christmas
carol, “Alle Jahre wieder.”

The participants were treated to a
Coke during a short intermission.

 

NOTICE

Rockbridge Concert Series
Robert Mc-

The
will present pianist
Donald tonight at 8:15.

 

 

The Dukes of Dixieland as they will appear here January 28. They are signed for the Saturday afternoon concert of

Fancy Dress Ball.

 

VMI Professor Speaks On Nineteenth
Century Military Security In The U.S.

Major Tyson Wilson, a professor of
history at VMI and a Lt. Col. in the
Marine Corps Reserve, delivered a
lecture on “Challenges to the National
Security Establishment in the Nine-
teenth Century” to the freshmen mem-
bers of the W&L ROTC Department in
Lee Chapel last night.

Using “to provide for the nation-
al security” as an opening thought,
Major Wilson stressed the analysis
of the national security setup by civil
leaders, principally John C. Calhoun,
from 1803 to 1853. He discussed Cal-

 

houn’s “expandable army;” consist-
ing mainly of officers, and how that
concept agreed with the prevailing
civilian attitude of “no large stand-
ing army in peace time.” He also
pointed out the cooperation be-
tween the army and navy in this
period, and how they helped
strengthen each other.

A close relationship between the state
and federal governments was shown
to exist through the constant use of
state militia with the regular troops
in securing the western frontier in the

 

‘Classrooms Abroad’ To Provide
Summer Study Plan For Students

Eight groups, each containing 20 to
30 American college students, will pay
a seven-week visit to a European city
next summer to study the language,
culture, and civilization of one country
during their stay. Designed for serious
students who do not plan to see all of
Europe in a short summer, Classrooms
Abroad tries to teach a seminar in
area studies through a summer of ac-
tual living in one of the following
cities: Berlin or Tubingen in Germany,
Vienna in Austria, Bensancon, Gren-
oble or Pau in France, Madrid or
Santander in Spain.

Graded classes in small sections of
six to ten students each under the
supervision of American and native
professors will deal with the reading of
classical and modern texts, the daily
press, contemporary problems, con-
versation, pronunciation and grammar.
Students will also hear lectures on his-
tory and literature and meet with
outstanding personalities. They will

you don’t know a word of German,
French or Spanish to learn more than
a year’s worth of college German
French or Spanish in the course of a
summer,” says Dr. Hirschback, di-
rector of Classrooms Abroad, “provid-
ed that we get serious and mature
students who are willing to mix busi-
ness with pleasure.” Dr. Hirschbach
who will lead one of the German-
language groups, is an assistant pro-
fessor at the University of Minnesota.
Other group directors include profes-
sors from Yale, Denison University,
Haverford College, Queens College,
the University of Georgia, Cornell,
and the University of Massachusetts.
Classrooms Abroad has grown from
eleven students in 1956 to an expected
two hundred participants in 1961.

Full information on the program can
be obtained by writing to Classrooms
Abroad, 4171 University Station, Min-
neapolis 14, Minnesota.

 

various Indian wars and the Mexican
War. The cooperation between the
military and civilian industries, chiefly
in the fields of communication and
transportation, was also pointed out.

The use of the military for diplo-
matic purposes was discussed. The
prime example of the military’s diplo-
matic use was the unauthorized in-
vasion of Florida by Andrew Jackson
in 1817. Although Jackson’s actions in
Florida brought diplomatic protests
from abroad, the end result was the
cession of Florida by Spain to the
United States. The Monroe Doctrine
was cited by Major Wilson as the
diplomatic cornerstone for defense of
the Western Hemisphere from foreign
aggression.

In addition to the previously men-
tioned main points Major Wilson
talked for a short while about the
Mexican War. The Major did not
discuss the actual war, but rather
the preliminary moves of the army in
California and on the Mexxican
border to get into position to attack
when the war broke out.

With reference to the growth of
military schools, Major Wilson made
the following statement: “The various
military schools, principally West
Point, Norwich, and VMI, were de-
veloped to train career officers for
the army.” Major Wilson went on to
say that engineering constituted most
of a cadet’s curriculum in those days.

Also, the foreign influence on Amer-
ican military life in the nineteenth
century was discussed. It was shown
that the French methods of using
artillery and infantry and the French
construction of coastal defenses was
the main outside influence.

 

have full auditing privileges at the] ==»

host universities and will participate in
all academic and social activities with
German, Austrian, French, and Span-
ish students.

Members of Classrooms Abroad will
live with German, Austrian, French,
and Spanish families, eat most of their
meals with the host families and share
the activities of their sons and daugh-
ters. They will have ample opportun-
ities to meet young people from stu-

dent, religious, and political organiza- | *

tions. Afternoon visits to museums, li-
braries, factories, youth organizations,
and other points of interest are in-
cluded in the program, but many af-
ternoons will be free for reading, re-
laxation, sports, and meeting with
friends. Tickets for theaters, operas,
concerts, and movies in the evening

will frequently be provided. Weekend | ©

trips will take the members of the
groups to lakes and mountains, into
the country and to other cities, fa-

mous monasteries, festivals, wine cel- |?

lars, Iron Curtain boundaries, and
many other points of interest. Each
tour will be followed by a two-week

tour of German, French, or Spanish- |"

speaking areas.

“We found during the past five sum-
mers that it is quite possible, even if

 

 

The campus is blanketed with the first snowfall of the academic session.
—Photo by Young

 

Jazz Group To

. DUKES OF DIXIELAND TO HEADLINE FD

Present Concert

During Second Day Of Dance Set

By Richard Cruse
Jimmy Vann, President of the Dance Board announced that
the Dukes of Dixieland will appear here Fancy Dress weekend
on Saturday, Jan. 28, giving a concert that afternoon. The
Dukes are world famous for their modern interpretation of clas-
sic dixieland music. Vann stated that, ‘The Dance Board has
Bone to great trouble and expense to make this Fancy Dress

 

Student Films

To Be Presented
Second Semester

Original documentary and experi-
mental motion pictures produced at
Washington and Lee will be shown
February 6 in the second annual Lex-
ington Film Review. The films will be
shown at 7:30 p.m. in Payne Hall 6,
the journalism lecture room.

Most of the films to be shown were
produced last spring by students in
the second semester course in the mo-
tion picture medium offered by the
University’s Department of Journal-
ism and Communications. Students
wrote their own scripts, photographed
the films with the department’s equip-
ment, and made their own sound
tracks.

The longest film is a documentary
on the life work of Marion Junkin,
professor of art at Washington and
Lee. Photographed by E. H. Ould,
Jr., 60, and O. W. Riegel, instructor
in the course, the film includes an
explanation of true fresco paintings.

Also to be shown are “The Inaugu-
ration of President Fred C. Cole,” a
documentary record film by Robin
Frames, ’60, and “Recollections on a
Bicycle,” an associational experiment
by Fred H. Belden, Jr., a member of
last year’s class who is now a student
of architecture at Columbia Univer-
sity.

By request, an experimental film
produced the year before will be
screened again. This is “Gray Rain,” a
subjective film with a Lexington set-
ting produced by Barton de Palma, of
the class of 1960.

As a collateral assignment in the
course, students are given the option
of writing either an original research
paper on some historical, aesthetic,
economic, or social aspect of the mo-
tion picture medium, or producing
a documentary or experimental film.

Students last year produced, in addi-
tion to the films mentioned, documen-
taries on motion picture production,
rug making, and the biography of a
news story, a narrative film on crime
and police methods.

 

Light, Fishwick, Ragan
Selected As Vestrymen
For R. E. Lee Church

The Robert E. Lee Episcopal Church
has announced the selection of three
new vestrymen from the Washington
and Lee faculty and administration.
The new vestrymen are: Dean Charles

i | Light, Dr. Marshall Fishwick, and Dr.

Allan Ragan.

Dean Charles Light, dean of the
School of Law, joined the Washington
and Lee faculty in 1926. Dean Light
was a colonel in the Judge Advocate
General Corps of the United States
Army. He is presently a member of
the District of Columbia Bar Associa-
tion, and Omicron Delta Kappa.

Dr. Marshall Fishwick, a professor
of American studies, came to Wash-
ington and Lee in 1949. Dr. Fishwick
has studied in Europe on a Fulbright
grant. Dr. Fishwick was a_ visiting
professor in Denmark last year. He
has written eight books, and is a
member of Omicron Delta Kappa
and Phi Beta Kappa.

Dr. Allen Ragan, associate profes-
sor of political science, joined the
Washington and Lee faculty in 1946.

'| He is a member of the American Po-

litical Science Association and the au-

| thor of several books.

As vestrymen, Dean Light, Dr. Fish-
wick, and Dr. Ragan will help promote
the total church program in the dio-
cese, and administer the affairs of the
local parish.

 

*®weekend an all around success. It has

been a great pleasure for us to work
with such a conscientious president as
Don Pardington, and it is our hope that
the student body will give the weekend
the support and enthusiasm it de-
serves.”

The Dukes are actually a family af-
fair. Brothers Frank and Freddie As-
sunto founded the group ten years
ago in New Orleans, They were later
joined by their father, Jack Assunto,
and Betty Owens who is Mrs. Fred
Assunto in private life.

The Dukes of Dixieland are one
of the top night club acts in the
country. They have played repeat
performances at such places as the
Royal Nevada, The Thunderbird, and
The Dunes in Las Vegas and the
Famous Door in New Orleans.

The Dukes got their big start after
taking top honors on a Horace Heidt
Amateur Show in New Orleans. After
two weeks of touring with the Heidt
band they returned to New Orleans
and went professional. They played a
record forty-five weeks at The Fa-
mous Door, gaining national recogni-
tion which led to engagements
throughout the country.

The Dukes of Dixieland have a style
stemming basically from that of the
Original Dixieland Band, which enjoy-
ed it peak popularity during the early
part of this century.

Actually the Dukes are a perfect il-
lustration of a kind of feed-back in
jazz whereby contemporary musicians
perform in the humble traditions of
Negro song and dance bands on the
street corners years ago. But where
other jazz combos attempt to sound
like these song and dance bands of
yesteryear—slow, easy-going, the
Dukes have a more virile style that
imparts considerably more character
to whatever they play. Their interpre-
tations of songs going back as far as
the gay nineties has a kind of modern
dynamic quality which places them
apart from any other contemporary
combo.

Using special arrangements that
are planned in detail before a single
note is played, the Dukes achieve
overall maximum freedom of design.
At the same time, instrumental ideas
and harmonies are worked out with
a view towards getting a closely-knit
texture.

The Dukes learned much of their
style by absorbing what they could
from many of the musical “greats”
who played in New Orleans; Louis
Armstrong, Count Basie, Sidney
Bechet, Dave Brubeck, Bunk Johnson,
Billy Taylor, and Jelly Roll Morton
are included in this list.

From the very beginning the Dukes
have been meticulous, even arbitrary,
about technical and stylistic perfection.
By combining musicianship and versa-
tility, they manage to achieve first class
virtuosity, while giving the impression
that their playing has the casualness of
a free-for-all or jam session.

The Dukes of Dixieland have re-
corded many albums of their dixieland
jazz. Included in the albums are such
songs as Dixie, South Rampart Street
Parade, and our own Washington and
Lee Swing.

 

Annual Candlelight Service
Will Be Tomorrow Night

Dr. James L. Mays, associate pro-
fessor of Biblical studies at Union
Theological Seminary in Richmond,
will speak here tomorrow night at
10 o'clock at the University Candle-
light Service, at the R. E. Lee Mem-
orial Episcopal Church.

Dr. Mays was born in Louisville,
Ga., in 1921. He has been pastor of
Carmel Presbyterian Church at Steele’s
Tavern, Va., and of the First Presby-
terian Church in Lincolnton, N. C.
While serving in the Air Force during
World War II, Dr. Mays distinguished
himself by winning four battle stars
and an Air Medal.
Page 2

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

Che Ring-tum Phi

Tuesday Edition

Member of Virginia Intercollegiate Press Association

 

Is Jazz Weekend Possible?

The lagging sale of dance plans has caused some concern
to a number of organizations on campus. At present, the Dance
Board seems to be the most perturbed of these groups. The
question of how to promote the sale of the plans has arisen. Let

us offer our suggestions.

The obvious solution to the problem is to make the dance
sets more appealing to the student body and to eliminate the
competition of fraternity combos during dance hours. Cooper-
ation would be required to achieve both these goals. First, the
dance board would have to offer more attractive entertainment

to the student body.

Our present dance set program is archaic. As much as we
hate to admit it, the formal dance is losing its appeal. This fact
must be accepted. We must admit that this is the age of jazz
and “rhythm and blues.”’ This is the age of the concert and
the combo. The formal dance band is on the way down.

We do not advocate the abolition of the formal dance sets.
What we do advocate is that the informal dance which is usually
held on the Saturday night of the present dance set schedule
be done away with and that a concert be substituted in its place. |

We also: would like to suggest that the spring dance set be | F

converted into a jazz weekend.

-We realize that any such change would involve complica- |
tions. The plan would have to be accepted by the Dance Board,
the student body, and, last but not least, the administration.

If the fraternities would agree to hold off on their combos
until after the concert on Saturday night, the attendance
problem would be nonexistent.
and able to offer the right kind of entertainment this phase of
the proposed plan might be worked.out through the IFC. We
see no reason why the fraternities should object.

Whether or not the student body would prefer the jazz
weekend to the old form of spring dances is a matter of opinion.
We believe that the proposal would be accepted with enthusi-
asm, and that such a change would stimulate interest in the
entire dance program at Washington and Lee.

Such a change would certainly increase the sale of the
dance plans and might even aid in solving the problem which
has arisen over the transfer of these plans. If more people buy
the plans, there will be less reason for transfer.

If the Dance Board is willing

 

Webster Unabrid ged

Webster Discusses Dance Plans;
No-Transfer Statement Is Only
Technical Gimmick To Up Sales

By ED WEBSTER

The campus is busily engaged in
finding the answer to a question which
is basically meaningless: Whether you
are being dishonorable when you lend
another person your dance plan.

This question is unanswerable be-
cause it weighs relative ‘action in terms
of an absolute standard.

‘The Honor System, in its true and
traditional form, applies only to ac-
tions which our society regards as ab-
solutely wrong. There is no half-way
point between cheating and non-
cheating, lying and telling the truth,
or stealing and non-stealing.

On the other hand, according to
an accepted custom in ‘our country,
season tickets to concérts and sports
events are transferable. If the best
social conventions say that the trans-
fer of a ticket is far from dishonor-
able, why should it be a violation of
the W&L Honor System? If I can,
in good conscience, lend someone
my season ticket to the W&L Con-
cert Series or the Troubadours, why
can’t I also lend him my dance plan?

Thus the transfer of a dance plan
involves neither lying, nor cheating,
nor stealing. No lie is told, for no
statement is made. No one is cheated
and nothing is stolen, because the
Dance Board (the only party with
anything worth taking) has the same
amount of money as before.

The Dance Board acts as a broker,

 

collecting money from the students and
spending virtually all of it on the danc-
es. If the transfers cause door receipts
to lag, the Dance Board won’t lose any-
thing; it will merely have to cut its
budget on the ‘next dance.

It is clear, however, that the trans-
fer of dance plans puts more than
800 students at a disadvantage. These
are the owners of dance plans, who
expect top-flight entertainment.

A considerable part of the Dance
Board budget—the part that lets us
hear Louis Armstrong instead of Lefty
Flatnote—comes from door receipts.
If the dance plans can be transferred
easily, and door receipts fall, the cal-
ibre of entertainment at future dance
sets will be lower.

That, in a nutshell, is the only basic
reason for not transferring dance plans.

* + *

Lest I be accused of being amoral, let
me emphasize that I believe firmly in
the spirit as well as the letter of the
Honor System. What I object to is the
use of a technical gimmick to bring
dance plans under the system.

Here’s the gimmick. On each dance
plan the Dance Board has printed
a statement, which the purchaser is
supposed to sign. It reads like this:

“T understand that admission to all
the dance sets is personal and non-
transferable.”

(Continued on page 4)

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  
 
 

  

I_HAD NO IDEA
THAT PUNTING COULD BE
SO SOUL-SATISFYING!

    
 

By HUGO HOOGENBOOM

Now that winter’s here and snow
covers the ground there will be no}
place for exhuberant young college lads
to work off their excess spirits. With
the prospect of seeing a whole campus
full of pasty-faced indoor lounge liz-
ards before me, I think it timely to
offer a few suggestions in the way of
healthy indoor activities calculated to
maintain that rosy bloom and trim off
those excess pounds. And this does
not-mean drinking until the capillaries
tin the face are permanently dilated.

No, the crying need is for some
athletic diversion which doesn’t re-
quire the elaborate preparation of
swimming, squash or basketball.
Something, that is to say, that can be
done in the home. The answer is
hallball. All that this grand game
requires is a few sturdy youths, a
football and a hall, preferably long

 

and narrow, like those on the upper
floors of fraternity houses. The rules
are essentially those of football, ex-
cept that the size of the hall deter-
mines the number of players.

After the kick-off, which is carried
out in the same manner as in foot-
ball, the ball is put into play where
it was returned and that side has
four downs to score. Punting is ac-
complished by the pass, since the low
ceilings of the average fraternity hall-
way would hinder a really good, high
spiralling punt. One of the chief varia-
tions from the ordinary game is that
the play ends when the runner is
completely down on the ground.
Things like forward progress and such
have no place in the game. As a matter
of fact, it is considered a great de-
fensive achievement to carry the run-
ner all the way back to the end of the
hall for a touchback while he struggles

 

to throw himself on the ground. Need-
less to say, the game is a little rough,
and it’s always wise to take a few
drinks of some commercially available
stimulant, to numb the pain.

A variation of hallball has been
suggested, although not actually test-
played. For those of you who are pre-
pared to do a little experimenting, here
is a rough idea of the game of stair-
ball.

This game can be played in any
three-story house, or any two-story
house with a basement. It’s elements
are essentially those of hallball, ex-
cept that the upper and lower stories
are the goals. Each landing is a first
down, and the offensive team must
always run uphill. If a team should
give up the ball on downs, it will
have to be treated as the change of
sides after the quarter. As I said,
this game has not been tried out in

 

Hallball, Stairball To Give Adequate

Winter Entertainment for Students

the field, but we would appreciate
reports from any who have tried it.

For those who like a sport with the
zest of danger and the excitement of
crowds of spectators, there is aways
bull fighting with a lawn mower in
the basement.

These games should be enough to
carry you through the winter. They
should be more than enough to carry
the Lexington hospital through the
winter and a good part of the spring,
too. A committee on indoor sports has
been formed and may be contacted in
care of this paper should any difficul-
ties about rules come up.

NOTE: This newspaper hereby ex-
pressly disavows itself of any responsi-
bility for any injuries that may result
from anyone’s attempting to play any
game described above, and warns that
anyone foolhardy enough to play them
does so at his (or her) own risk.

 

and captains, past and present.

 

Coach Mac speaks at recent banquet given to the football team by Pete and Antoinette of the College Inn. The menu
included steak, french fries and all you could drink. Party lasted until 1 a.m. Other speakers included coaches

 

—Photo by Young

 

Raven Rants

 

By GERRY OUELLETTE

As we arose Sunday morning and
saw the falling snow we attempted to
turn our thoughts toward new things.
For years snow has held this effect
on us: the desire to enter into un-
explored spheres of thought. The sight
of the first snow has, in the past,
transported our mind onto new heights
and called us to survey new realms.

This extraordinary spirit was un-
doubtedly provoked by the covering,
fresh, clean, and white, that the weary
autumn nature dons. Nature appears

 

“Rejuvenation In Way Of Life”
Resolved For The Coming Year

to bury its old self, and in the process
it beckons to the yet unborn to mater-
ialize. Because, we suppose, we con-
sider ourself part of nature, we have
felt the urge, the necessity, to shake off
old anchors, to close the unfinished
book, to enter into fields unmarred and
uninitiated.

This year the feeling became rather
difficult to achieve. Perhaps we had
not prepared our mind sufficiently for
the task: perhaps we were in a some-
what heavier state of apathy than we
usually find ourself at this time of

 

Opportunity For

By GEORGE BIRDSONG

One of the most interesting ideas
President elect Kennedy has mentioned
is that of creating a “Youth Corps”
composed of all interested and quali-
fied American students. Kennedy plans
to push this idea in Congress next
year. The plan is to sign up thousands
of young men for 3 years, and to
send them abroad to underdeveloped
nations as teachers, technicians, farm
experts, engineers, and in any other
capacity necessary. This program will
provide a real challenge for those stu-
dents who would prefer to perform
their duty to the country in a creative
service rather than in military service.
This program will not, however, be a
haven for draft dodgers. Pay will be
about the same as the military, living
conditions probably below military
standards, and time longer than some
branches of the military service re-
quire.

“The Youth Corps,” if passed by
Congress, will probably not get roll-
ing until late in 1961. However, there
are still many opportunities at the
present time for students who would
like to participate in a foreign ex-
change program. There are numer-
ous programs run by church and

 

 

(2-/2 Foie

 

school groups. Almost every religious

 

Kennedy’s Youth Corps To Offer

Patriotic Service

group now has some form of foreign
exchange program each summer. In-
formation concerning these “work
projects” can be obtained from
almost any church pastor or minis-
ter to students. With most of these
programs come financial assistance
to the student.

Information about school sponsored
programs can be obtained from many
foreign language professors. In addi-
tion, the W&I. Commerce Fraternity
is sponsoring a program through the
International Association of Students
in Economics and Commercial Sci-
ences. The faculty advisers for this
group are Dr. John Gunn and Dr. Le-
land McCloud. The purpose of
AIESEC is to further international
understanding and education — es-
pecially among future leaders of the
world and business community. Un-
der this program a student will work
from six weeks to three months in a
European business. In general, the
salaries will allow students to break
even during the period they are em-
ployed, and transportation will be
provided at reduced rates.

It should not be necessary to list the
numerous opportunities available for
American students. The point that must

(Continued on page 4)

 

the school year. Or maybe the snow
had come earlier than usual.

Nevertheless, the first snow came
quite appropriately at a time when
new views would coincide with the
season, and as we see it, when new
ideas would be much desired, con-
sidering the somewhat overwrought
state of affairs.

With this feeling for new things,
we then would like to bury the dead
in this, our last column for this year.
This attempt will permit, subsequently,
the awakening of still dormant views;
and whatever they may be, they will
be welcome.

The very worthy topics of the
honor system and the tradition at
W&L have been worked over con-
siderably since the beginning of the
year. It seems to us that the neces-
sary seeds have been excellently
planted; and at this stage we contend
that more fruit will develop if quiet
germination is permitted in the usual
undisturbed process. Moreover, we
believe that the soil in which these
seeds were sown is fertile, although
at times it might appear to be arid.

(Continued on page 4)

The Ring-tum Phi

Tuesday Edition

The Ring-tum Phi is published Tues-
day and Friday during the college year.
It is printed w, the Journalism Labor-
sory Press, ashington and Lee Uni-
versity. The mailing address is Box
899, Lexington, Va,

Entered ag second class matter Sep-
tember 20, 1946 at the Post Office, Lex-
ington, Va., under the act of March
"National Advertising Representative:
The National Advertisers Service, Inc.,
420 Madison Ave., New York, N.Y.

 

an Rosewell Page, III
Business Manager.............. Huntley Biggs
Editorial Board
Managing Editor................. Bill Roberts

Photography Editor.......
Assistant Managing Ed
sidhtnhebbiihasiieebesdirneiaieaeseiies ..Steve Galef
News Editor... ..Bob Bridewell
BOTS Be E sccscsccun 4 Steve Guild
Associate Editors........ Lanny Butler, Bill
Smith, Ronnie King

FORtUure BAItOr..cccccscssscseseorsees Harvey Allen

Bill Young

     

Advertising Manager.......... Jerome Dattel

 

Circulation Manager.......Peter Agelesto
CORDS MARAE cccsecrssrscreccesssseses Don McFall

 

Interesting Data
On Amherst Life
Shown In Study

By STEVE GALEF

Amherst College, in Massachusetts,
is considered by many to be one of
the best, if not the best, men’s liberal
arts college in the United States.

During the past few years Amherst
has constantly raised its admission and
academic standards to a level once
considered unreasonable by many edu-
cators. The average College Board
scores of its incoming freshmen are
well into the 600’s, and, in addition to
having many extracurricular activities
as prerequisites, most of the students
ranked among the top two or three
in academic standards of their prepar-
atory schools.

The situation has not always been
the same at Amherst. While it was
always one of the country’s top
colleges, its standards for admissions
were not always quite so high. In
fact, in 1956 its admission standards
closely resembled those of Washing-
ton and Lee’s Class of 1964 as far
as College Board score averages are
concerned.

Amherst has just released a “pre-
liminary report” on its Class of 1959
which might prove interesting to us
due to the resemblance between the
two classes. The information was com-
piled in an 89 page report that covered
almost every range of college life. The
authors of the report, members of the
Amherst faculty, attempted to analyze
their findings and present a complete
picture of the members of the Amherst
Class of 1959,

In general, the data is concerned with
general observations. They reveal that
in the area of academic work, the work
week averaged about 60 hours.
Twenty of these hours were spent in
class, and 40 of them involved study.
The time required for freshman study
ranged anywhere from 20 to 70 hours
a week.

The amount of time devoted to
study came to its lowest point dur-
ing the sophomore year. During the
junior and senior years the study
time gradually increased, with the
time spent during the senior year
ranging on the borders of “the fan-
tastic, with some students reporting,
four hours a week and others claim-
ing 60 or more.” The average amount
of time spent in study during the
senior year was around 30 hours,

In the realm of social activity, the
Class of 1959 was found devoting the
largest amount of time to social life
in the sophomore year. By the time
the senior year came, more of the class
was spending time on matters of per-
sonal or solitary interest. While they
all had impressive records of activities
in secondary school, the information
reported in college revealed that over
a third were spending no time in
campus activity during the middle two
years. This percentage increased to
one-half during the senior year.

When determining the amount of
satisfaction received in college, it was
discovered that for the most part, the
amount of satisfaction or dissatisfac-
tion was closely related with the ease
of attainment of goals. Most of this
feeling resulted from the grades re-
ceived in college and adjusting to the
fact that these grades were not as high
as the ones they received in high
school, “By senior year there is evi-
dence of lowering of the level of as-
piration to conform move closely to
actual productivity,”

Connected with this question of
satisfaction, the statistics showed that
the number of students who consid-
ered leaving Amherst “reached a
peak in the sophomore year when 14
per cent...seriously considered
leaving.” Also, in the senior year

(Continued on page 4)

 

pe

 

 

 
 

THE RING-TUM PHI

Paye 3

 

Cagers Score First Win

Thackston, Kowalski Star
In Win Over Sewanee

The Washington and Lee Generals
jumped to a quick lead and were never
seriously challenged as they swept to a
78-56 victory over Sewanee in Dore-
mus Gymnasium last Saturday night.

Led by three players in the double
figures and a 53-36 edge on the
boards, Coach McHenry’s quintet
posted its first win in five starts.
Roger Fauber, sophomore from near-
by Lynchburg, threw in six field
goals, went 9 for 11 at the foul lines,
and pulled down 20 rebounds to pace
the Generals attack.

Brett Thackston and Ken Ko-
walski sank 20 and 17 points respec-
tively to aid the Washington and
Lee cause. Freshman center John Mc-
Dowell played a good defensive game
while adding six markers.

Poogie Tomlin with 16, Harry Var-
nell with 11, and Sparky Edgin with
10 points led the Sewanee scoring.

Hitting 30 of 82 field goals the Gen-
erals had a 36.6 shooting percentage
while the University of the South
dumped in 16 of 45 attempts for a
35.5 percent.

The visitors shot better from the
free throw line, making 24 of 30
tries. The Generals only sank 18 of
27 tosses.

After spotting Sewanee an_ initial
basket the Generals took the lead
and never relinquished it to the scrap-
py Sewanee five. By intermission W&L
had run up an eighteen point bulge
and were leading 42-28.

Washington and Lee maintained
its lead in the second half and at
one time had a 25 point spread due
to Kowalski’s four straight set shots.

McHenry substituted freely for the
rest of the contest as the Generals

coasted to a 78-56 triumph. ‘i

 

Swimmers Sink Catholic U.

The Washington and Lee tankmen
kept their winning streak going last
Saturday as they routed Catholic Uni-
versity of Washington, D.C., 65-29, in
the Doremus pool.

Opening up the meet with a victory
in the 400 yd. medley relay, the Gen-
erals were never threatened as they
kept building up their lead.

 

Brett Thackston goes up for two in Saturday’s win over the University of the

South,

 

—Photo by Young

Frosh Tankmen Defeat Massanutten Team, 47-39

On Friday afternoon the frosh tank-
men splashed to their second victory
of the season as they overwhelmed
Massanutten Military Academy, 47-39.

The frosh took an early lead and
never let up as the Massanutten team
sank under their unusual depth.

According to Coach Norris Eastman,

 

Bo Be Bo BeBe Be te Be Bo Be Be Be he Be Be Ba Ba he Ba a Bae
Re ee eee eee eee ee

IDEAL
BARBER SHOP

QUICK SERVICE

 

ee
vrorerrrrrre
Bc Me Be ste le Be Be Be Becta
Serre a a at a ee

Be Bo Me Be Bo Bo Bo Be Be Be Be Ba Be Be Behe Be Bea te Be Be

 

 

Co-captain Jim Parker led the
team to a victory as he picked up
first places in the 50 yd. and 100 yd.
freestyle. In maintaining their un-
beaten string from last season, other

(Continued on page 4)
BROWN’S
CLEANING
WORKS

We Call for and Deliver
24 Hour Service

Student agents in the
dormitory and fraternities
HO 3-2013 14 Randolph St.

 

 

 

 

sc he Me Be Be Bo Bo Bo Be Be Be Be ho Be Be he Be Ba Be Bae
TTT Te rT eT eT eee ee Te TT

White’s Music

Store

(Opposite State Theater)
*k
Phonographs—Hi-Fi
Expert Repair Service
ry

5 W. Nelson St. Lexington, Va.
HO 3-3522

 

2 2 ot ee 2 ee ee se ee eo 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 oD
PPS SS SSS SSS SSS Se Se ST SSS See eee eee

 

ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee
OPS SSS Se Seer SS eee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee

 

she Be Be Be Me Be Bo Be Bo Be Be Bo Be Be Be Be Be Be Bae Be
CES se ee ee ee eS ee ee ee

 

+

 

 

VARSITY
BILLIARD
ACADEMY

Catering
To Students

Corner of

Washington and Jefferson

ee eS eS Se eS Se Se ee ee ee

 

Be he Be Be Be Be Be te Be Be Be Bo he Be Be Be Be he Be Bo Boe
OE ES Se SS Se eS Se SS ee ee

THE NEW

White Top

Restaurant
*

 

Se Bo Me Bede

SET STS ST SST SSS SS eee eee eee ereorerrorrrrrrrre

A personal invitation
to the
Students
Try our delicious foods
Route 60 East

L22.2.4.2..%.2.3.2. 3.2. 3.2.9. 2. 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 oe 2 2 oo 2 eo 2.
CT TST STS Sse. eeeeeeererereerererererrrrrrr

 

 

2. 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 6 ee 2 ee 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 oo

ea
&
%
*
%
Ba

le slo the Be Be te Be Be Be he Be Be Bo Bo Be

 

the frosh are doing well and improving
regularly. “A particular standout,” he
said, “is John Lundy who is rapidly
developing into a fine freestyler.”

Next meet on the frosh schedule,
and the last before Christmas, is
Lynchburg College which will come
to the Doremus pool on Thursday.

 

 

 

 

The showing of the basketball team

'|so far this winter seems to indicate
#| that something is wrong.

“Why can’s they win as the football

‘| team?” “Why is the team made up
‘| primarily of sophomores and juniors?”

“Why can’t we beat teams like Ran-

| dolph-Macon?” These are all questions
| one will hear leveled at the basketball
_| team as a whole and the coach in par-

ticular. While we feel that all this
criticism is fair and valid, we also
believe that the trouble with the
basketball team, and for that matter
with those athletic activities which
are termed “lesser sports,” is not with
the team, coaches, or athletic policy in
particular but with the duties that are
required of the coaches of basketball,
soccer, lacrosse, and baseball.

A Question

The question we would like to ask
is “Why is one coach required to take
care of three sports plus physical edu-
cation classes, another required to
coach two sports plus classes, while
others have only one sport and no
classes.”

This, then, leads us to the basic
problem of the whole athletic pro-
gram( excepting football, as of this
year), and that is the problem of re-
cruiting. One of the related func-
tions of any athletic coach besides that
of coaching his team is that of re-
cruiting. This is especially important
under W&L’s non-subsidized pro-
gram. Here it is particularily import-
ant to encourage the best talent avail-
able to apply for admittance. Recruit-
ing itself is a full time job. It is
through the successful operation of

 

 

Green Valley Motel

One Mile North on
U. S. Highway No. 11

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA
HO 3-2195

 

 

 

 

Finest

SUNDAY

Ted’s Steak House

Choice Meats
Ww

Route 60 Buena Vista

Foods

DINNERS

 

she Be Bc Be Be Be Bo Be Ba Me Be Bc Be Be le Be Be Be Be Se Bs Ba Be Ba Be lle Bs Bc Be Be Be Be Be Be Be Be Be Ba Be he Be he Bo Be Be Bae

 

St SS SS SS SSS Se 8 ee ee ee
CRS SST ST SST STS eee eee eee

 

Oe ee STS Se ee ee Se ee Tee eT eee eee.

Shirt Service as You Like it
Quality Cleaning and Pressing

UNIVERSITY CLEANERS
HO 3-3622

*
“Your Campus Neighbors”

le Mie Be Be Ba Ba Be Be Be Be Ba Bo Be a Be Be Be Be Be Be Be he Be Be Bc Be Be Be Be le Be Be Bo Be Be Be Ba Be Be Be Be Be le Bo Be Bode

he Me Me Mle Be Me Be Bo Be Me Be Be Be Mle stn Bie Bie Be Me Ma Balle
TTT ttre e es Se eS

 

 

ee ee eS ee ee

 

 

 

 

 

Oe ee eS ee Te ee ee ee eT eS SS

Hobnail Oxford
a fresh approach
in shirtings...

The special weave of hobnail ox-
ford accents the texture of this fine
fabric .. . the authentic roll of the
classic button-down is perfectly in-
terpreted in the Sussex B.D.
Offered in stripings of muted mas-
culine tones as well as solid colors.

cum laude collection

by
-ARROW=

$5.00

 

Coaches Seen Hampered
In Multiple Assignments

this recruiting that the football staff
and especially Lee McLaughlin has
been able to get as good a gridiron
team as he has. The job is time con-
suming and occupies the entire foot-
ball Coach’s winter.

Does it not seem reasonable then
that basketball, which according to
attendance records and the place it
holds in athletics, would be just as
time consuming in its related activi-
ties? Apparently, the athletic depart-
ment does not think so. The results
of this line of thought have shown
up so far this winter.

Lighter Load

Our plea is for a lighter load on
these coaches who have under their
direction several important sports, one
following the other, and who as a re-
sult have little time to get out and
pull in some of the better players that
we lose to surrounding schools. As a
result of this we believe that we would
be able not only to have a successful
basketball team, or a successful soccer
team, or a successful baseball team,
but also a successful athletic program
in general.

|| The Coaches Corner

 

McHenry Cites
Balanced Attack

Just two short weeks ago we were
about to start the 1960-1961 basketball
season with high hopes, a young
team and no losses. Today we still
have high hopes, a young team, but
four losses. As of last Friday, I
am sure that some of our co-called
pallbearers had already dug an early
grave for the Generals. However, the
boys knew that we had not played well
in the early games. They also knew
we were a much better team than we
had shown.

Last Saturday we played an im-
proved game against Sewanee and
won. We cut down our mistakes, re-
bounded better, and started to shoot
with more confidence. Defensively,
we were more aggressive, which al-
ways helps. Balance is the answer to
our team. We don’t expect to get one
big scorer in every game, but do
want several boys in the 14-20 point
range. If we can get this, any one
player can have an “off-night” and
the others will take up the slack
with no noticeable deficiencies in
our attack.

Three of our sophomores—Fauber,

 

—S. E. G. (Continued on page 4)

 

    

  

(Author of “I Was a Tecu-age Dwarf’, “The Many
Loves of Dobie Lillis’, etc.)

DECK THE HALLS

The time has come to make out our Christmas shopping lists,
for Christmas will be upon us quicker than you can say Jack
Robinson. (Have you ever wondered, incidentally, about the
origin of this interesting phrase “Quicker than you can say
Jack Robinson’? Well sir, the original phrase was French—
“Plus vite que de dire Jacques Robespierre.’” Jack Robinson is, |
as everyone knows, an anglicization of Jacques Robespierré who */
was, as everyone knows, the famous figure from the French
Revolution who, as everyone knows, got murdered in his bath
by Danton, Murat, Caligula, and Aaron Burr.

(The reason people started saying “Quicker than you can say
Jacques Robespierre (or Jack Robinson as he is called in English-
speaking countries)” is quite an interesting little story. It seems
that Robespierre’s wife, Georges Sand, got word of the plot to
murder her husband in his bath. All she had to do to save his
life was call his name and warn him. But, alas, quicker than
she could say Jacques Robespierre, she received a telegram from
her old friend Frederic Chopin who was down in Majorca setting
lyrics to his immortal “Warsaw Concerto.” Chopin said he
needed Georges Sand’s help desperately because he could not
find a rhyme for “Warsaw.” Naturally, Georges Sand could not
refuse such an urgent request.

(Well sir, Georges Sand went traipsing off to Majorca, but
before she left she told her little daughter Walter that some bad
men were coming to murder daddy in his bath, and she in-
structed Walter to shout Robespierre’s name when the bad men
arrived. But Walter, alas, had been sea-bathing that morning
on the Riviera, and she had come home loaded with sea shells
and salt water taffy, and when the bad men came to murder
Robespierre, Walter, alas, was chewing a big wad of salt water
taffy and could not get her mouth open in time to shout a
warning. Robespierre, alas, was murdered quicker than you
could shout Jacques Robespierre (or Jack Robinson as he is
called in the English-speaking countries).

(There is, I am pleased to report, one small note of cheer in
this grisly tale. When Georges Sand got to Majorca where
Chopin was setting lyrics to his immortal “Warsaw Concerto,”
she was happily able to help him find a rhyme for ‘‘Warsaw,”
as everyone knows who has heard those haunting lyrics:

In the fair town of Warsaw,

Which Napoleon’s horse saw,

Singing cockles and mussels, alive alive o!)

 

But I digress.

We were speaking of Christmas gifts. What we all strive to do
at Christmas is, of course, to find unusual, offbeat, different
gifts for our friends. May I suggest then a carton of Marlboro
Cigarettes?

What? You are astonished? You had not thought of Marlboros
as unusual, offbeat, different? You had regarded them as familiar,
reliable smokes whose excellence varied not one jot or tittle
from year to year?

True. All true. But at the same time, Marlboros are unusual,
offbeat, different, because every time you try one, it’s like the
first time. The flavor never palls, never gets hackneyed. Each
Marlboro is a fresh delight, a pristine pleasure, and if you want
all your friends to clap their hands and exclaim, ‘Yes, Virginia,
there is a Santa Claus!” you will put them at the very top of
your Christmas list.

© 1960 Max Shulman

+ * *

And for further Yuletide joy, give Marlboro’s nonfiltered
companion cigarette, mild, flavorful Philip Morris—in regu-
lar size or the sensational new king-size Commander. You'll
be welcome aboard!

—
Page 4

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

Coaches Corner

(Continued from page 3)
Thackston, and Kowalski finally lived

up to potential and have received due
credit. One boy who certainly helped
us no end with his timely rebounding
and tip-ins was freshman John Mc-
Dowell.

This week it’s Emory and Henry at
home and Catholic U. and Franklin
and Marshall away. I hope that many
of you will come out tonight and send
our boys home for Christmas with a
noisy “full house.”

Coach McHenry

 

Youth Group

(Continued from page 2)

be emphasized is that these programs
are available for those students who
want to experience the joy and fulfill-
ment of working with foreign people
abroad. Not only is this experience
benefiting the person individually, but
it is benefiting the country as a whole.

At such a time when our way of
life is being challenged on every front,
each American, and especially the stu-
dent, should not fail to make the best
of the opportunities available to im-
prove his understanding of other peo-
ples and their understanding of
America and its principles.

 

Varsity Swimming
(Continued from page 3)
instrumental first places were taken
by Elliot Maynard in the 200 yd.
breaststroke, Ted Johnson in the
200 yd. butterfly, Herb Jahncke in
the 200 yd. individual medley, Mike
Hams in the 200 yd. backstroke, and
Henry Gonsoulin in the 440 yd. free-

style.

 

Webster Unabridged

(Continued from page 2)

This makeshift statement says noth-
ing about the Honor System. In fact,
the Executive Committee didn’t of-
ficially bring the dance plans under
the Honor System until October 24,
1960—four days before Opening
Dances, and several weeks after the
dance plans were printed.

When a student signs his 1960 dance
plan, he is pledging his obedience to
the non-transfer provision. If he vio-
lates this provision, he will be pros-
ecuted—not because it is dishonorable

 

 

LEXINGTON
CLEANERS

Phone HO 3-3813 108 S. Jefferson

 

 

oa la

STATE

LEXINGTON, VA.
|_NOBART 3-3424 |

 

 

WED.-THURS.
Matinee Only Thur.

UL att
M-G-M peesens

AVA GARDNER - DIRK BOGARDE

ia A TITANUS-SPECTATOR PRODUCTION

   
   
  

F suone JOSEPH COTTEN

 ———«x»«qguuummmme\TTORIO DE SICA

  

 

THUR. NIGHT
7 and 9 p.m.

SPECIAL PREVIEW

Another hilarious comedy from the
author of the riotious “Doctor in
the House” series!

GUAT SS
ere

 

 

 

 

meee

TUES.-WED.

 

 

JOANNE

Bry NNER: WooDw

MARGARET

Ww AM FA

IN
ARD: LEIGHTON
mers

 

 

 

 

 

MYERS
HARDWARE
COMPANY

 

Amherst Study

(Continued from page 2)

“more than a quarter of the class re-
ported their belief that they would
have enjoyed their senior year in
a coeducational college.”

When investigating the smoking and
drinking habits of the Class of 1959, the
authors found that “while there is
little change in smoking habits, these
having been more firmly established
prior to college, there is a systematic
increase in the number who drink.”
By the senior year about three-fourths

 

to lend someone your dance plan, but
because it is dishonorable to break
your word,

 

said they drank some form of alco-
holic beverage, and 56 per cent smoked.
Then too, “while 42 men reported hav-
ing passed out during the freshman
year, only 14 seniors reported having
done so.”

The purpose of presenting some of
the findings of this report is not par-
ticularly for a comparison. While it is
very hard not to do this, we must real-
ize that in spite of all of the similarities,
there are many differences between
our Class of 1964 and their Class of
1959.

Aware of the trend that has come
to Amherst since the time covered
by this report, we wonder what a
statistical analysis of the Amherst
Class of 1964 would reveal? We
are curious...

 

Raven Rants On
(Continued from page 2)

The old issues—political, social, and
economic—must continue to be de-
bated. Nevertheless, this does not pre-
clude the possibility of the debaters
to seek out new and fresh views which,
in the long run, will perhaps benefit
the cause more than the usual proce-
dure of harping on the old ones.

For instance, politically speaking,
Kennedy is in. The situation, the new
Democratic administration, must be ac-
cepted. For the sake of added effi-
ciency and desired change, we recom-
mend that the old criticisms—particu-
larly the ones used in the campaign—
be put aside. As criticisms are a ben-

 

eficial aspect of the democratic way,
may we suggest that these necessary
items be rejuvenated, at least sprinkled
with freshness.

A rejuvenation in our way of life as
students, it seems, would be beneficial.
Indeed the apathetic, lethargic, and
complacent student on the W&L com-
pus is not in the minority. To spark
ourselves with new interests, to activ-
ate untried views, and ideas, to aban-
don our customary vegetative exis-
ence, and to resume our position as
“nature’s most highly endowed crea-
ture’—let these be our aspirations for
the new year. Let us propose to en-
liven surroundings that have become
intellectually drowsy for lack of sin-
cere efforts on the part of everyone of
us.

 

 

 

 

 

 

ROCKBRIDGE LAUNDRY

and
Dry Cleaners

Shirts Transparently Wrapped
for Freshness
*
AGENTS:

Fraternities, Dorms and Co-op

 

 

 

 

 

The First National Bank

of Lexington
*
has special checking accounts

for students

 

 

 

 

 

 

For those extra pieces

of
FURNITURE

for your room
see our stock
before buying

®
VARNER AND POLE

 

 

Radio Hospital

*
Radio, TV, Phonograph
Sales and Service

*

HO 3-3531

 

 

 

 

 

 

The Southern Inn

Cordially invites you to make this your headquarters for good food
Here you get the best food for the most reasonable prices

Our Specialties:

Steaks, Chicken, Country Ham, and the best sandwiches
in town

Meet your friends here

 

 

  

 

   

acl

Sia hate

 

    

“BANK §

x

ee x

STUDENTS ACCOUNTS INVITED HERE
Member F. D.L. C.

 

Open a convenient student Checking account
TODAY

at

Rockbridge National Bank

Member Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation

 

 

 

Jim joined The

 

 

 

 

 

ee Behe he he Be le Me he ie hc Be Mle Be Be le Be Be Bo Be Bo Be Bc Bo Be Bc Be Be Be Bo Bo Bo Be Be Be Bo BeBe Be Be Be Be BeBe Boe

 

lin Bin hn Bin cn cin Me Me Me Mn Mn Me Mh Me Mie Mla Be Bio Bie Mla Min lin ln allie ie i, in, slg he he Me, Mh ie se
CrrTTT TTT?

 

eee ee eee eee eee eeCCrrrrcrrosovevvvevvvuvevvvvvvvese

We Feature

SEALTEST

Dairy Products
“To get the best get Sealtest”

over twenty different products in addition to
delicious Sealtest ice cream

Block and Crushed Ice

Your favorite mixes—Ice Cold

x
Maple-Rock Distributors, Inc.

OO ee ee

eo Be Me Be Be he he Be BeBe Be Behe Bo BeBe tle Be Be Be Be Be Bee Be Be Ba dee Be Bo he tata Be
le le le le ae lie le le le le le a le le le le le le ei le le a le a ee ee le

 

 

 

When Jim Boardman took his B.S. in Elec-
trical Engineering at Colorado State, there was
one idea uppermost in his mind. He wanted a
job in which he could work his way into man-
agement via the engineering route. As he puts
it, “I didn’t want to stick with straight engi-
neering all my life.”

After talking to eight other organizations

Mountain States Telephone &

Telegraph Company. He soon got the kind of
action he was looking for.

His first assignment: How best to improve
widely scattered rural telephone service all over
Colorado—a sticky engineering challenge. He
was given a free hand to work out his own pro-
cedures. His boss simply said, ‘Find the answer,
Jim—and bring it back.”

“Our number one aim is to have in all
management jobs the most vital, intelli-
gent, positive and imaginative men we
can possibly find.”
FREDERICK R. KApPPEL, President
American Telephone & Telegraph Co.

 

Terr eT ee ee TT ST eC eC eee ee ee ES SE SS yy

“FIND THE ANSWER, JIM—AND BRING IT BACK’

Six months later, Jim turned in his recom-
mendations. His plan was accepted.

Next stop: Colorado Springs. Here Jim
worked out a plan to expand telephone facilities
for this burgeoning community. This plan, too,

is now in operation.

Today, at 24, Jim has an important role in
planning where, how much, and what kind of
telephone service is needed in the Denver area.

Here’s how Jim puts it: “We get tough assign-
ments— but we also have the freedom to take hold
and doa job. I think the future here is unlimited.
If a man wants to do it—it’s there to be done.”

If you're a guy who can “Find the answer—
and bring it back” —you’ll want to get with a com-
pany where you have the chance. Visit your Place-
ment Office for literature and additional information.

BELL TELEPHONE

 

COMPANIES
 

 

bes
bs
[

cugeemearsagumenenenen t
Re PRESET

The Brothers Four, all Phi Gams, will play for the Fancy Dress cocktail party given in honor of the dance president,

 

Don Partington, also a Phi Gam.

By ANDY NEA
News Editor

Don Partington, President of the
1961 Fancy Dress Ball, announced to-
day that the Brothers Four have been
signed to play at the Friday after-
noon cocktail party. Partington met
with the group during the past sum-
mer and began to negotiate for a
contract. Since that time, Don Rhine-
smith has completed the arrange-
ments necessary to bring them to
the Washington and Lee Campus.

The Cocktail party will be held

- on Friday afternoon from 3:30 until

6:30 at the Mayflower hotel. Arrange-
ments have been made so that the
quartet may be more easily heard
through the use of additional loud
speakers. However, it is requested
that people be as quiet jas possible
during the time that they are sing-
ing so that everyone may enjoy them.

Just a little over a year ago, Dick
Foley, Mike Kirkland, John Paine,
and Bob Flick, brothers in Phi
Gamma Delta, started singing to-
gether just for fun at the Univer-
sity of Washington in Seattle. Then
they began to sing in public. The
response to their refreshing, relaxed,
yet enthusiastic style was over-
whelming.

They hit the big time with their
first professional job at the “hungry
i” in San Francisco, where they
were spotted and signed by Mort
Lewis, manager of Dave Brubeck.
Within six months they had a Co-
lumbia contract and one of the big
record hits in the country—Green-
fields.

TV Debut

One month after they arrived in
New York they made their network
television debut on the Jimmy Rodg-
ers Show, and have since appeared
on the Ed Sullivan Show, the Kate
Smith Show, Mitch Miller’s Ford
Startime Spectacular, the Dick Clark
Show, “Be Our Guest,” and Cana-
da’s award-winning Music ’60 Show.
They have appeared at many col-
leges from coast to coast and re-
cently completed an engagement with
Johnny Mathis at the Carter Barron
Theater in Washington, D.C. They
have also won popular and critical
acclaim at the Newport Folk Festival.

Also signed to play during the
Dance Set are the Dukes of Dixie-
land. They will appear on Saturday,
Jan. 28, giving a concert that after-
noon.

The Dukes of Dixieland are one

 

of the top night club acts in the

Brothers Four To Appear At FD Cocktail Party

country. They have played repeat
performances at such places as the
Royal Nevada, The Thunderbird, and
the Dunes in Las Vegas and the
Famous Door in New Orleans.

The Dukes of Dixieland have re-
corded many albums of their dixie-
land jazz. Included in the albums
are such songs as Dixie South Ram-
part Street, and the Washington and
Lee Swing.

Dance Theme

The theme of this year’s Fancy
Dress Ball will be the Court of
King James. The gym will be dec-
orated like the famed Globe Theatre
in England. Dr. Fitzgerald Flour-
noy will announce the figure which
will be a procession of characters
from several of Shakespeare’s most
famous plays.

Costumes for the 1961 Fancy Dress
Ball will be on sale again after the
Christmas vacation. The costumes
are coming from the Hooker Howe
Company in Haverhill, Mass.,
the Oak Hall distributors in Roa-
noke.

The costumes will cost the normal
$18 per set for those couples who
do not have Dance Plans. However,
people with Dance Plans receive the
costumes for $16.

 

 

FRIDAY
Edition

Che King-tun Phi

Washington and Lee Semi-Weekly Newspaper

FRIDAY
Edition

 

Volume LXI

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA, DECEMBER 16, 1960

Number 26

 

Gives Afternoon Talk

Dr. Mays Gives Meditation
In UCA Candlelight Service| |

By PETER ALFORD
Staff Reporter

The annual University Christmas
Candlelight Service was held Wed-
nesday evening at 10 p.m. in the
Robert E. Lee Episcopal Church.
Under the auspices of the Univer-
sity Christian Association the serv-
ice at the church included the Wash-
ington and Lee Glee Club and the
John Graham Brass Choir.

Dr. James Luther Mays, professor
of Biblical studies at Union Theolog-
ical Seminary in Richmond, was the
guest preacher who offered a Christ-
mas meditation.

Dr. David Sprunt, associate dean of
students and University Chaplain
gave the invocation and the bene-
diction at the service. A full congre-
gation heard the service.

Ashley Wiltshire, Arnold McKay,
and Phil McCaleb, all W&L sopho-
mores, read the appropriate pas-
sages of Scripture which were sup-
plemented by hymns sung by the
Glee Club and the Brass Choir.

The Glee Club, under the able di-
rection of Mr. Robert Stewart pre-
sented “Lo, A Rose Ere Blooming”
and “Silent Night.” The congrega-
tion joined in the singing of other
traditional hymns.

Contest Offers
Business School

Scholarships

“Initial response to our first annual
House of Edgeworth Scholarship Con-
test has shown how eager and ingen-
ious students are in applying their col-
lege training to the solution of prac-
tical business problems” reports J.
Carroll Taylor, vice-president of Larus
& Brother Company, Inc., sponsors
of the contest.

Campus publicity for the Scholar-
ship Awards already has encouraged
student response from many of the
nation’s colleges and universities, he
said.

Open to graduate and undergraduate
students of business, economics, ad-
vertising, marketing and commerce,
the contest offers two $500 cash award

 

scholarships. The first will go to the| -

undergraduate student submitting the
best advertising slogan with support-
ing brief for House of Edgeworth
smoking tobaccos. Winner of the sec-
ond award will be the graduate student
who writes the best marketing plan
to sell tobaccos to the college market.
Entries, to be postmarked no later than
midnight, March 15, 1961, will be
judged on the basis of originality, ex-
pression, and practical merchandising
value.

The annual contest is aimed at en-
couraging students in advertising
studies, while also offering an oppor-
tunity to apply classroom studies to
practical business problem,

 

The Glee Club joined the Brass
Choir for the final hymn, Kessler’s
“Alleluia.” The Brass Choir also
played the prelude and the postlude
for the service.

On Wednesday afternoon, Dr.
James Luther Mays conducted a
University Christian Association
sponsored discussion group in the
Student Union. At the beginning of
the conference, Dr. Mays gave an
informal talk on God’s relationship
to history, in which he stressed that
God acts in history and that God
reveals himself through historical
action. After his speech, Dr. Mays
led a discussion session with the stu-
dents.

Dr. Mays received his B.A. degree
from Erskine College in South Car-
olina, and his Ph.D. degree at the
University of Manchester in Eng-
land. Presently, Dr. Mays is Profes-
sor of Biblical Studies at the Union
Theological Seminary in Richmond,
Va., where he received his Bachelor
of Divinity degree.

Debate Team

In Tournament

Using different combinations for
the third time this fall, the debate
team traveled to Bridgewater last
week to take part in the Bridgewater
Invitational Tournament.

Washington and Lee used five
different teams in debating Bridge-
water and Randolph-Macon in three
rounds of action.

At the request of the host school,
no winners were declared.

The debated question was: “Re-
solved that the U.S. should enact a
program of compulsory health for
all its citizens.”

Debating the affirmative were Jim
Haley, Bob Cafferata, Charles C.
Flippen, and John Lackey. The neg-
ative teams were composed of Dick
McEnally, Dick Hoover, Lon Atkins
and Bob Street.

Co-Captains Otis Hess and Jay
Clark debated both sides of the
question, switching back and forth in
alternate rounds. Pete Straub, W&L’s
expert senior debater served as
judge.

 

 

Notices

Will all students who have not yet
sent in their date’s measurements for
Fancy Dress costumes please do so
as soon as possible. Mail them to:
Mrs. Arlene Stover, Oak Hall, Roa-
noke, Va.

Schedule for tomorrow's classes
are as follows:
B— 8:00- 8:45
D— 8:45- 9:30
F— 9:30-10:15
H—10:15-11:00
J—11:00-11:45

 

SW MSFC Production Staff Named

 

sone anaencomentenren

| Mt
: :

&

'

teats Senn mete

 

 

consagnonenanemsnnnnnansane:

i

‘gee “a —

 

 

The Musical production staff: seated are Mrs. Larry Smail and Mrs. Otis Hess; standing left to right, Jay Green,
Dick Schulist, Ed Ladd, Scott Iacone, producer Steve Danzansky, Ron Alenstein, Don Sallinger, Don Partington,
Gene Johnson, Floyd McKinnon, Jim Sagner and Dick Roberts.

—Photo by Young

Danzansky Has
Veteran Group

On Show Staff

By C. C. FLIPPEN
Staff Reporter

Steve Danzanski, producer and di-
rector of the Spring Musical has
named the following persons to of-
fices in the 1961 SWMSFC produc-
tion today.

Dr. Ross Borden, professor of
English at W&L is the script advisor.
Dr. Borden is assuming duties sim-
ilar to those he performed in last
year’s production of “The Cannon’s
Mouth.”

Assistant directors will be Tim
Morton, a junior from Roanoke, Va.,
and Ron Alenstein, ZBT junior from
Hyattsville, Md. Both took part in
last year’s musical.

Orchestra Conductor
Gene Johnson, Delt junior from
Waynesboro, Va. will act as orches-
tra director. Johnson played the
trumpet in last year’s show and has
had his own combo in Waynesboro.

Vocal director of the show will be

 

Dr. Fred Cole,
Dean Gilliam
On Long Tours

By ED CROFT
Staff Reporter

Dr. Fred C. Cole and Dean Frank
J. Gilliam have been on extensive
trips during the past week.

On December 16, Dr. Cole flew to
Palo Alto, Calif, for a three-day
meeting of the directors of College
Entrance Examination Board.

In Washington, D. C., on the 12th
and 13th of the month, he attended
a meeting of the commission on Edu-
cation and International Affairs of
the American Council on Education.

After a brief stopover here in Lex-
ington, he left on December 13 for
a two day trip to Roanoke and Salem
for the Virginia Foundation for In-
dependent Colleges meeting. He and
representatives from the other eleven
independent schools in Virginia visit-
ed industrial and business leaders in
the area.

Dean Gilliam in South

Dean Gilliam has been visiting sev-
eral Southern cities. He has been
holding meetings with boys and their
parents that are interested in Wash-
ington and Lee. In route, he also
attended several luncheons and din-
ners.

Arriving in New Orleans on Mon-
day, Dec. 12, he visited several high
schools. The next day found him in
Houston; then on to Dallas and Fort
Worth. Completing his circuit today,
Dean Gilliam will fly to Washington
and arrive in Lexington tonight.

 

W&L’s Sazeracs Plan To Cut LP Record In February;
Group Will Sing At Bradford College Winter Carnival

The informal Washington and Lee
singing group, the Sazeracs, has had
a busy fall term. In addition to
“going down the road,” they have
sung at the Virginia Inn, and an
SAE cocktail party. On parents
weekend they sang at several fra-
ternities and recently sung at the
Beta Christmas party. A new addi-
tion to their schedule was a trip to
Massachusetts to sing at a Worchest-
er Cotillion and a preceding dinner
party.

Their plans for winter include a
12-inch record in February and

 

John C. Morrison Elected
President of W&L SBA

By RICK KRALL
Staff Reporter

Six law students were elected to

positions in the Senior law class
and the Student Bar Association
Thursday afternoon.

John C. Morrison, Jr., a law sen-

ior from Charleston, W. Va., was
elected president of the Association,
and Warren Welch, a Delt law senior
from Birmingham, Mich., was elect-
ed vice-president. The students chose
Bob Shepherd a law freshman from
Natural Bridge, Va., secretary, and
re-elected Joel Kocen, a law senior
from Richmond, Va., treasurer.

The seniors elected Paul Coffey
and Hugo Hoogenboom to serve as
vice-president and historian, re-
spectively, of the senior law class.
They will replace Warren Welch

 

and Tom Bryant who will graduate
in February.

traveling up to Bradford College for
a winter Carnival. During Spring va-
cation they will hold forth at the
Colonnades in Palm Beach, Fla. This
engagement will mark the Sazeracs’
fifth year as a singing group and their
fifth season at the Colonnades.

The group is directed by its pres-
ident, Huntley Biggs, SAE, while
Billy Martin, Sigma Chi, assumes the
post of Chancellor of the Exchequer.
Eric Wilson, Delt, and Joe Tartt,
SAE, are the new members taken |
from the freshman class. Other mem- |
bers of the 11-man group are: Dave
Peters, Sigma Nu, Bob Van Rennsa- |
laer, Phi Delt, Dave Knight, Phi
Delt, Wally Cox, Phi Psi, Bill Heald,
Beta, Henry Harrell, Sigma Chi, and
Hardie Karrh, Sigma Chi.

 

 

Cook On GOP Committee

David Cook, chairman of the
Young Republican Club on the W&L
campus, has been named to the nom-
inating committee of the Virginia
Young Republican Convention.

The Young GOPers will convene at
Hotel Roanoke on Feb. 17 for the
statewide meeting. Cook is one of
eight young Republicans that will
nominate candidates to nine state-
wide and national representative of-
fices for the group.

Cook is a Delt senior and hails
from Upper Montclair, N. J. Attend-
ing the convention with Cook will
be Edge Jackson, SAE sophomore
from Providence, R. I., Brent Wells,
Beta sophomore from Alexandria,

 

Va., and Craig Distlehorst, a soph-
omore from Winter Park, Fla.

Don Partington, Phi Gam senior from
Culpeper, Va. He, too, held a similar
position last year. Assistant vocal
director will be Mrs. Zoie Hess, wife
of Otis Hess a senior from Cincin-
nati, Ohio.

Musical coordinator for the show
will be Richard Schulist, ZBT senior
from Shaker Heights, O. Schulist is
also a veteran of the “Cannon.”

Experienced Art Director

Mrs. Nancy Smail, wife of inter-
mediate law student Larry Smail, will
serve as art director. Mrs. Smail,
from Pittsburgh, Pa., majored in art
at Penn State University. She was
recently one of a two-person art
exhibit at the Roanoke Fine Arts
Center. She has worked as art direc-
tor at a Pittsburgh TV station and
presently has several of her works
displaying in Lexington.

Assistant art directors will be Jay
Green, ZBT junior from Baltimore,
Md., and Ed Ladd, Beta senior from
Mobile, Ala. Both have done art
work on the W&L dance sets. Ladd
will also serve as property director.

John Ambrose, Lambda Chi senior
from Roselle Park , N. J., will be
master carpenter. He served in this
capacity for last year’s show. Doing
the lighting is Floyd McKinnon, a
freshman from Scarsdale, N. Y. Mc-
Kinnon has worked on lighting with
amateur and professional groups and
handled the lighting effects for the
first Troub production this year.
Sound will be supplied by William
Stanley, a junior from Gates Mill,
O.

Scott Iacone, Pi Kap junior from
Arlington, Va., will act as stage man-
ager and construction director. He
was on the stage crew of the “Can-
non” production. Members of the
stage crew this year are Dennis

(Continued on page 4)
THE RING-

TUM PHI

 

Che Ring-tum Phi
Friday Edition
Member of Virginia Intercollegiate Press Association

A Look At The Dance Program

There is much that is said, with which we can and do agree,

in the Tuesday edition headlined “Is Jazz Weekend Possible?”

Our present dance program seems archaic; the formal dance
is losing, if it hasn’t already lost, its appeal; from the policy of
the Dance Board it would appear that plan sales have dropped;
a change does seem in order.

We would personally welcome a jazz weekend in the spring.
This is not to say that the present program should be com-
pletely scrapped. We cannot visualize Dave Brubeck or Miles
Davis playing for a Fancy Dress ball. Lionel Hampton, who
has been here for two consecutive years with his band, has de-
veloped quite a following on campus. Nevertheless, the students
who have expressed an opinion in our presence have all agreed
that they are tired of the same bands every year. Everyone of
them has also said he would like to have a jazz weekend.

As for the combos in the fraternities being scheduled for
hours that do not conflict with the Saturday night dances, few
if any fraternity social chairmen will voluntarily agree to such
a move until something more in step with the times is offered in
the gymnasium.

The college student of today simply perfers to hear the
blues, the jazz (of sorts), and the noise of the combo rather
than the smooth sounds of the big bands. Along these lines, we
would welcome the appearance of such performers as Ray
Charles and his band, a group that seems to hit a happy medium
between Hampton and the Saturday night combo.

We do not necessarily defend the students’ taste for combos
but it is just that these are their tastes. And, after all, they are the
people who buy dance plans and support the dance board pro-
gram. It is time that the program be brought up to date.

We do not offer these objections as criticism of the present
dance board. It is manned by very capable people who are do-
ing what they feel is right. However, the fact that these people
are so very capable makes possible these suggestion in the hope
that they will re-examine their program to see if it is in or out of
step with the desires of the student body

—G. E. H. and R. R. G.

 

 

Less Criticism, More Support

We are happy to see that the basketball team came out on
the winning end of the game with Emory and Henry earlier
this week. We, however, have not been so pleased with the
criticism of the team for not winning more often.

Several factors must be considered. First, it is easy to criticize
anyone or anything that is down and out. This is especially true
in the world of sports. The Washington and Lee football team
certainly had their share of the knocks for five long years.

When the team began winning, indeed, went undefeated,
most of the critics lapsed into a sullen silence; few had anything
good to say for the team. The same will be true of the basketball
team. The days of the Floras, the Marshalls, and the Hoss’s in
basketball are gone from this school. These days should be
remembered with nostalgia, but they are not something with
which the present basketball team should be compared.

Secondly, the basketball team that Coach Bob McHenry
has floored is a young and inexperienced team. The starting
line-up is composed of a freshman, a junior, and three sopho-
mores. In college basketball these men are inexperienced and
should be recognized as such. That is not to say that they are
not trying. They are a scrappy team and a team that is capable
of playing an excellent game within their class.

This latter fact is the third one we must consider. This
University has taken a policy toward athletics that is honorable
and defendable. It is a course that has taken us from the high
ranks of college competition in athletic events and placed us on
a lower level. But just because we do not meet the greats of the
nation any longer is no reason to say that we can not offer excit-
ing, competitive games to the spectators. It is, after all, the com-
petition that makes the game, and we should realize that just
because we don’t win all the games doesn’t mean that the games
are not hotly contested.

Give your athletic teams your support and a chance—that

is all they ask.
—G. E. H.

 

Season’s Greetings

The entire staff of the Ring-tum Phi would like to take this
opportunity to wish the members of the faculty, the student
body and all our readers a very merry Christmas and a prosper-
ous New Year.

Since nearly all of us will be traveling to and from home
over the holiday, we would like to remind everyone of the haz-
ards of travel in the adverse weather conditions which we are
now experiencing. We hope no one’s vacation will be marred
by accident.

Last year during the Christmas holidays, a member of the
student body was killed in an automobile accident. It is our sin-
cere hope that Washington and Lee will not lose any of this
year’s student body during this vacation period. We would ask
that you remember this—Merry Christmas, Happy New Year,

and BE CAREFUL.
—R. R. G. and G. E. H.

 

 

 

Kennedy Names Excellent Men
To Head New State Department

Early this week President-elect
Kennedy announced the appointment
of his top-ranking State Depart-
ment officials. These appointments

.. were to have been
announced earlier
in November, but
Kennedy has tak-
en extra time to
make these im-
portant decisions.
The delay was
quite worthwhile.

The _ appoint-
ment of Dean
Rusk, Rockefeller
Foundation presi-
dent, as Secretary
of State; Rep. Chester Bowles of
Connecticut as Under-Secretary of
State; and of Adlai Stevenson as
Ambassador to the United Nations
should inject a new vigor, large in-
tellectual capacities and a_back-
ground of broad experience into U.S.

 

By VICTOR LASSETER
Friday Columnist
foreign policy under the new Ken-
nedy administration.

A native of Georgia, Dean Rusk
was a Rhodes Scholar at Oxford and
later an instructor at Mills College.
Rusk was then on hand for World
War II as an Army deputy chief in
the Far East and as an official in the
War Department in Washington. Per-
haps less well known to the public
than his two new colleagues, Rusk
was evidently chosen for Secretary of
State because of his wide diplomatic
experience and his knowledge of
Far Eastern affairs.

First To Back Kennedy

Rep. Chester Bowles was one of
the first Democrats to back Presi-
dent-elect Kennedy for the Demo-
cratic presidential nomination this
summer and received national atten-
tion for his authorship and presen-
tation of the Democratic Platform in
Los Angeles. Rep. Bowles has served

 

Columnist Should Investigate,
Choose Subject, Then Write

By JAMES VANN
Friday Columnist

Any man who has made a regular
commitment to the Ring-tum Phi
to write a weekly
column is_ faced
with several prob-
lems—not the least
of which is sub-
ject matter. It is
my purpose in this
article to urge
these men to chose
very carefully
their subjects and
then do some pre-
liminary investi-
gation — both to
check the validity of their own par-
ticular points and even more import-
ant to analyse the implications that
their stand on the matters will have.

Haven’t Reached Success

No one here at Washington and
Lee, either in the faculty or student
governing positions, will maintain
that we have reached an optimum of
success in the University. But every-
one of these people is doing his very
best to see that we move there as
quickly as possible. It is necessary
for the student body to realize that
we all seek and each group is mov-
ing along the path that it feels of-
fers the most opportunity for the
moment.

Vann

In this choice of roads, to con-
tinue the analogy, there is certain-
ly question for debate in many in-
instances and sometimes the decis-
sions made can be totally in error.
But I would ask that the men who
want to criticize these various poli-
cies would do a little more than
sit down indignantly and write
about what is wrong in them.

For example, there has been a wave
of protests from some of the colmn-
ists lately about the policy of the
Executive Committee in placing the
transfer of the Dance tickets under
the honor system, and one columnist
was even graphic enough to begin
his article with this eye-catcher,
S-T-R-E-T-C-H. Now its certainly
not my purpose to drag up this issue
that has been beaten ad anuseam by
each paper for the past month; but
it can be used as an example.

It seems to me that the matter
has more implications than wheth-
er a man can transfer his plan, in
flagrant violation of the stipulation
made by the dance board that they
are non-transferable. It is hardly a
device used to aid the board in its
sales because the board can simply
have men stationed at the doors
to check cards and forbid the en-
try of anyone on another’s plan.
No. The whole issue of honor is at
stake. Is honor relative? Can it be
stretched?

Finally, there is another kind of
column that is even more dangerous
because it is more widely read and
that is the humorist column. All the
men who write these columns have
definite ideas on school policy and
as such are free to print them as
often as their editors permit. But
to these men I would only ask, sat-

 

  

irize when there is genuinely some-
thing wrong but don’t mock simply
because the subject lends itself to
wit and you can be amusing. For,
each of these columns is read and
acted on as much as it seems feas-
able by the people in authority. No
one of these people wants to force
policies that are unwanted by the
students. Therefore, columnists,
when you write and make points of
criticism, be sure that you have an-
alyzed the situation as thoroughly
as possible and then have come up
with an alternative that can be used
in place of the situation you are
criticizing.

as U.S. Ambassador to India and is
one of the most popular U‘S. officials
to work with the Indian government
and public. Like Dean Rusk, Rep.
Bowles is an authority on Far East-
ern affairs. Unlike Rusk, Bowles ad-
vocates a “two China” policy for
securing the representation of Red
China at the U.N.

More so than Rusk and Bowles,
Adlai Stevenson has been in the
public eye for many years, chiefly
as the articulate spokesman for the
liberal-wing of the Democratic party.
Stevenson is said to work well with
Rusk; both men have worked to-
gether in the U.N. and on the for-
mulation of a revised U.S—NATO
policy during the Truman adminis-
tration,

New Realism Indicated

In his formal acceptance of Presi-
dent-elect Kennedy’s appointment
this week Stevenson indicated a
trend towards a new realism in U.S.
foreign policy. With the admission
of many new nations to the U.N.
the United States can no longer hope
to control this body. “Our biggest
problem,” said Stevenson is to “iden-
tify ourselves with the emerging na-
tions.”

No longer shall we be content to
allow the new nations, especially the
African nations, to automatically
espouse the Soviet brand of Marx-
ism as a means to political and eco-
nomic independence without giving
these nations ample opportunity to
identify themselves with Western de-
mocracy.

A similar statement by Dean Rusk
points at a more vigorous leadership
on the part of the United States in
shaping world opinion. According to
Rusk, the U.S. has a “responsibility
to make history, and to take a large
part in shaping of events.” President-
elect Kennedy himself has already

(Continued on page 4)

 

 

What To Tell Friends?
“Dukes” Offer Subject

By THORNS CRAVEN
Friday Columnist

Since we’re all going home tomor-
row, and the hard-working among
us left yesterday, I spent most of last
week worrying
about what to
brag about during
vacation. The foot-
ball team ruined
Thanksgiving, and
the basketball
has already brok-
en the ice, and it
looked like I might
be humiliated
again. Then the
Tuesday Edition
came out, and I
was delivered from the clutches of
embarrassment. We’re having a real
live jazz weekend, with the real live
Dukes of Dixieland—and even be-
fore Springs.

Now being at this school for three
years I’ve learned quite a bit about
jazz, and I also know about all the
real live jazz spots from reading
the New Yorker. And I’m sure that
there are not any places in the world
more renowned for good jazz than
those that the real live Dukes of
Dixieland have just played in—The
Royal Nevada, The Thunderbird (as
you all know, the bird part is taken
from Charlie Parker’s nickname),
and The Dunes. Why everyone knows
that jazz was born in Las Vegas
(or was it the Ed Sullivan Show?)

 

Craven

Anyway, we can really brag
about how W&L is really big-
time with the real live Dukes of
Dixieland. And what makes it more
exciting is that they play OUR
OWN Washington and Lee Swing
(Lynwood [the Linotype operator]
put that in dark print like it was
in the Tuesday Edition, and maybe
our “own” should be captalized,
italicized, and underlined). And
for Freshmen who have never seen
a real live Fancy Dress (but who
I know have seen the real live
Dukes), here’s what it will be:

You'll get your too big pants and
your too little shirt for your genuine

made-in-Japan-by-real-live-coolies-
who-eat-costume, and take your
draped date to the ball. There you
will mingle with dozens (at least two
or three) of other couples who look
like they have the other half of your
regalia. You'll see a figure of amaz-
ing geometric precision, worked out
by the debutante daughters of the
math professors, and you'll swing and
sway with Sammy Dixieland. That
was a slip, this year it will be the real
live Dukes of Dixieland who are
from southern Italy, and good friends
with other great New Orleans musi-
cians like Count Basie (from Red
Bank, N. J.), and Billy Taylor
(Chicago), and Sidney Bichet (Paris,
France), and all those old time
goodies.

The rest of the Sem girls, along
with your date, will get Papa
Jack’s autograph on the back of
Volume 117 (entitled: THE DUKES
OF DIXIELAND GO TO THE
CIRCUS IN DOREMUS GYM
WHERE THEY MEET LESTER
LANIN IN HI-FI AND PLAY THE
SONGS FROM MY FAIR LADY
IN THE SWEETEST STYLE THIS
SIDE OF VMI, with special guest
Jimmy Vann accompanying on the
cash register). This is on Audio
Fidelity, and is definitely the best
album to get your autographs on,
because it is completely blank on
the back, and is equipped with a
Paper-Mate pen shaped like either
a trombone or a trumpet (your
choice).

After the authentic jam-session
which combines musicianship and

And back at your fraternity house
you will leave behind the more virile
style of the real live Dukes of Dixie-
land, and listen to your combo play
humbly in the tradition of the Negro
song and dance bands on the street
corners of years ago (The Salvation
Army drove them underground). It’s
your loss if you leave too soon, and
if you do, I'd like to borrow your
dance plan, so I can see for myself
the trouble and expense.

versatility, you will leave to drink.| 3

 

Luthy Pays Visit
To Baldwin;
Has ‘Fun’ Date

By TOM LUTHY
Friday Columnist

After having seven previous col-
umns in this tabloid, I think that I’ve
finally hit upon a
subject which no
one really cares
about; the scenic
institution of bet-
ter women, Mary
Baldwin.

In my travels to
our numerous

neighboring girls’
, schools, I had un-
til last weekend,
by a_ stroke of
luck, passed over
Baldwin. For some strange reason,
(I guess it was that in the Commerce
School you’re only allowed two dates
a semester), I decided to make the
northern trip despite pleas from
more knowledgable souls than I. My
roommate would have gone too, but
it seems that he was a victim of a
rather idiotic local ordinance con-
cerning the throwing of snowballs,
and consequently was a little short
on cash.

Well, anyway, we made it to Staun-
ton about an hour late which is al-
ways good for building friendly re-
lationships with dates you’ve never
seen before.

My lodge brothers tried to sucker
me into asking for my date at the
State Institution for the Mentally
Unbalanced, but some nice lady
named Cleopatra said I was in the
wrong neighborhood.

Then I got my first glimpse of
Mary Baldwin, hanging on a hill
overlooking the town. It had “TILT”
written all over it.

This was just the beginning, for one
look at my date made me wish I was
back at Doc’s playing the pinball
machine.

It was at this precise moment that
I learned we were to attend a Christ-
mas dance in a near-by hotel. I
figured that if alcoholic beverages
were being served at the dance, my
date might become progressively
lovelier, but I took along a cool six
pack just to be safe. Now I know
why people who have never fought
a round in the ring become punch
drunk. That’s all that the eye could
see in the ballroom on each and every
refreshment table—PUNCH.

I still have the impression that the
chaperones and my date were slight-
ly honked off at me that evening.
Apparently it had never occurred to
them that anyone would deplete
the punch supply by drinking thirty-
four glasses of the stuff and then
throw the orange peels on the dance
floor!

Between punches I usually re-
treated to the men’s room to gulp
down a brew and to make sure that
the S.M.A. cadets, who were sneak-
ing drags on cigarettes in there,
hadn’t pilfered any of it.

My main problem was how to take
my date for the next four hours with-
out going completely berserk. After
fighting the Civil War several times,
deciding that it might snow soon, and
discussing the supply and demand
conditions of the soy bean industry,
I somehow survived until the mid-
night curfew rolled around.

I was thankful that the return trip
was a short one, although I slept
most of the way back and tried
to forget it. All I could say when
we reached my apartment was,
“Thanks a lot, ‘Mole,’ for taking me
with you. Remind me to ask that
honey down for next year’s Senior
Prom.”

Che Ring-tum Phi
Friday Edition
The Ring-tum Phi is published Tues-
day and Friday durin the college year.
It is printed by the Journalism Labor-
ator , Press. aa ne ee, 908 ine Ya
versity. e mailing addr
899, Lexington, Va, . © .
Entered ag second class matter Sep-
tember 20, 1946 at the Post Office, lak.
ington, Va., under the act of March

National Advertising Re resentative:
ational Advertisers Servic =
420 Madison Ave., New York, NY. ”

Editor-in-Chief................ Nathan Simpson

 

Luthy

 

  
 
   
 
  

Business Managev.............. Huntley Biggs
Editorial Board

Managing Editor................ George H

Asslstan Managing ditor- sani : a
Roy Goodwin
viene ndy Nea

Sports Editor. «Bill t

Associate Editor.......cccccsssesessee Lr ‘Rains

Copy Editor...
Advertising Manager
Circulation Manager.

 

 

 

    
   
   
 

 

 
 

SHERMY...

  

     
     

 

 

 

 

ee ene Don McFall
PFANUTS ‘ 1 ESS es
BEETHOVENS HAVE YOU eae WHAT KIND OF A HOLI
pears )| | aea) Sae Be ene

 

 

 

 

 

 

   

=)

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

THE RING-TUM PHI

Page 3

 

 

W&L guard John Kirk (4) drives in for layup

Martin Scores 34 Points As Freshmen Slaughter _
Fishburne, 82-49; Staunton Tops Brigadiers, 67-39 |

Howard Martin came within six
points of the Doremus Gym scoring
record Tuesday as he poured in 34
points in leading the freshman
basketball team to a 82-49 victory
over Fishburne Military Academy.

The Gym record of 40 points was
set by Virginia’s Buzzy Wilkinson.

Martin, a 6-4, 195 pounder, com-
pletely dominated the first half as
he collected 24 points, including a
perfect eight for eight from the
free throw line, and pulled down
15 rebounds, 13 of which were of
the offensive variety.

For the first six minutes, the Brig-
adiers and Fishburne battled tooth

 

Generals Rap Emory & Henry, 62-50,
In Basketball (Or Football?) Contest

By JOHN ALLGOOD
Assistant Sports Editor
Fumbles, flying tackles, and body
blocks in December. Crazy? No. Just
basketball.
That is a description of W&L’s 62-
50 victory over Emory and Henry
Tuesday night at Doremus Gym.

 

Catholic Tops W@L, 65-48

Catholic University stopped a
second half W&L rally Thursday
night and captured a 65-48 basket-
ball win over the Generals at
Washington.

The Generals cut the Catholic
lead to 48-46 with five minutes left
in the game, but Catholic then
pulled away. Brett Thackston top-
ped the W&L scoring with 15
points.

 

The win, W&L’s second straight,
also was the Generals’ second
straight indoor football contest.

It seems that the General cagers
in addition to studying Bob Mc-
Henry’s basketball patterns have

and nail. Then Martin sank two
straight jump shots to put the Briga-
diers ahead, 14-9.

Martin and guard Stu Yoffe then
collaborated just before intermission
to widen the W&L lead to 47-27.

The Brigadiers coasted in the
second half with Martin, Yoffe, and

General Swimmers Still Winning, But Twombly
Has Relinquished Coaching Reins To Eastman

The change in command went al-
most unnoticed at Washington and Lee,
but for the first time in 29 years,
“Cy” Twombly isn’t coaching the
Generals’ swimming team.

The W&L swimmers, who since 1921
made Twombly the most successful of
all Generals coaches, are going right
on winning and just about everyone
assumed that Cy was still in charge.

His successor is Norris Eastman,
Twombly’s assistant for the past two
years, and like Twombly, a Massa-
chusetts native who came South from
Springfield College with a solid back-
ground in athletics in general and
swimming in particular.

Under Eastman’s hand, the Generals
have splashed to easy victories over
Roanoke College and the University of
Virginia so far this season but a beefed-
up schedule including meets with
Maryland and East Carolina, may make
duplication of last year’s unbeaten,
8-0, record difficult.

As for Twombly, no coach ever turn-

 

ed over his team to a successor with
greater confidence. “This young fellow
is interested in doing a good job and
he has a top-notch background,” says
Twombly of Eastman. “He was a big
help the past two years, the boys like
him, and if he stays around as long
as I have, he'll probably have a better
record.”

Twombly’s record is 150 wins against
50 losses. His swimmers won eight state
titles, four Southern Conference crowns
in a row from 1935 to 1938, and in
the mid-30’s, the Generals went five
years without losing a dual meet.
Twombly also had a 6-0 year in 1948-
49.

There’s a touch of irony in Twom-
bly’s retirement from swimming. “Even
when I had those teams back in the
30’s, I never had a good breast stroker.
Now all of a sudden I’ve had nothing
but good ones for six years and I’m
leaving Norris the best I’ve ever had.”

The Generals’ standout performer is
Elliott Maynard, a 22-year-old junior
from Portland, Me., who has broken

every W&L record for the breast-
stroke events and stands a good chance
of winning national honors this year
and next. He finished high in the
Eastern Intercollegiate meet last year
as a sophomore, and both Twombly
and Eastman agree he has not yet
reached his full potential.

The rest of the Generals are good,
solid performers, but none approach
Maynard’s level of performance.

“That’s been my secret recently, good
depth that has come from hard work
on the part of my boys,” says Twom-
bly. “My recent teams have had far
better balance than any of the good
ones back in 1930 when I depended on
a handful of real hotshots to win for

(Continued on page 4)

 

 

 

 

THE DUTCH INN

For Reservation Call
MRS. KATHERINE ADAMS
HO 3-3433

 

 

 

 

 

 

It’s Good usiness
To Do usiness
with IERER’S

PHARMACY

 

Hamric and Sheridan
JEWELERS
Watch and Jewelry Repair
Hand Engraving and Class Rings
HO 3-2022

 

 

 

 

Lrstesesseeereererinsres
+ ROBERT E. LEE :
BARBERSHOP ;

David M. Moore :
Proprietor ’

 

_eoerrrrrr..

POPPE SEES EEE HE

 

 

TOLLEY’S PHARMACY

Prescriptions Filled
Immediately

PURCHASE DRUGS
HO 3-2211

 

 

 

Lexington
Laundro Matic

209 S. Main
*

HAND IRONED
SHIRTS
Dry Cleaning
Service

for your convenience

 

 

 

 

 

sDodge and Dodge Dart

Phone HObart 3-3146

° and Lancer :
: America’s First Fine :
* ECONOMY CAR 3
: * :
: Rockbridge Motor Co. :
; INC. °

 

 

Spencer General
Tire

E. Nelson Street Extension

BEST IN TIRES
GENERAL

Best in Recapping

Kraft Tread

Compact Tires

 

FOR ROOM RESERVATIONS—CALL HO 3-2151

LEXINGTON MOTEL
Large Rooms—U. S. 11 By-Pass South
Free TV—Phones—Continental Breakfast
Only Motel in corporate limits of Lexington

DIXON’S

ESSO SERVICE CENTER
ROUTE 60 EAST IN LEXINGTON

Across from the White Top Resturant
HO 3-4214

Wash, Grease, Lube, Road Service

Charge Accounts Welcome

 

 

begun concentrating on Lee Mc-
Laughlin’s football formations.

But the Generals have not learned
their football lessons nearly so well
as their last two opponents, Sewanee
and Emory and Henry.

Emory and Henry not only had
a bag of football plays but also the
football players to execute them.
Six of their 11 players fell into the
6-4, 210-pound plus category.

Midway through the second half,
the roughness reached a peak when
an E&H player made a flying tackle
on W&L’s Bip Fauber. Even the ref-
eree got into the act at this point,
making a diving tackle of the E&H
player.

The Generals jumped off to a quick
3-0 lead, but Emory and Henry
charged back and grabbed its only
lead of the night.

The Wasps held their lead for
six minutes, then freshman center
John McDowell sank four points
to put the Generals ahead for
keeps.

Those four points were the only
points McDowell got all night, but

 

Fred Ridolphi handling the bulk of

the scoring.

Coach Joe Lyles cleared his bench
with six minutes left in the game,
but Fishburne managed to whittle
only five points off the W&L margin.

Martin added seven rebounds in
the second half to give him a total
of 22 for the game. The Brigadiers
outrebounded Fishburne, 58-25.

Yoffe and Ridolphi were the only
other W&L players in double figures.
Yoffe had 12 points and Ridolphi, 11. |

The Brigadiers’ record slipped to
2-3 Thursday when they bowed
to staunton Military Academy, 67-
39, at Staunton.

W&L grabbed an early 6-0 lead,
but Staunton stormed back and went
ahead, 19-8, at the end of the first
quarter. W&L never threatened af-
ter that.

Gordon Taylor paced the W&L
scoring with ten points.

TEXACO

Super Service Station
Lexington, Virginia

 

Corner Main and Nelson
eeccecceocsecocsoceccs

   

Tried
Regular

Filter

Cigarettes?

© eebeoderherberde rhe rhe erde oferde rte oe ee nde ode ote fe rterfeote

Tried
Other
Menthol |
Cigarettes?

they were very vital.

With 12:00 left in the first half,
McDowell, operating under the
boards, tapped in Ken Kowalski’s
jump shot to tie the score, 11-11.
A minute later the big center sank
a jump shot from the free throw
line to give the Generals a 13-11
lead.

Led by Fauber, Kowalski, and
Brett Thackston, the Generals
pushed their lead to 30-20 at the
half.

In the second half, the Generals

 

 

Bip Fauber (22) sinks j

 

rocked along with Kowalski and
John Kirk pacing the scoring until
the Wasps began a rally with 8:30
left in the game.

Three minutes later Emory and
Henry had cut the Generals’ margin
to 48-42, but 5-9 Thackston sank
six straight points to put the game
on ice.

Thackston with 15 points, Kowalski
with 12, and Kirk with ten shared
the W&L scoring Honors.

Fauber, although scoring only eight
points, turned in a terriffic game on
the boards, pulling down 24 rebounds.

ump shot against EXH

 

 

————— i
Waggy’s Jewelers
35 S. Main Street
Phone HO 3-4121
THE HOME OF QUALITY
Pde eebetdaeeebe
CALL BY NUMBER

 

and Save Time

LEXINGTON
TELEPHONE CoO.

 

 

BROWN’S
CLEANING
WORKS
We call for

and deliver
HO 3-2013 14 Randolph St.

 

 

 

     
 

NOW! Come Up...All The Way Up

to the MENTHOL MAGIC

of

When your taste tells you
it's time for a change,
remember: Only Kool—
no regular filter cigarette,

no other menthol cigarette—
gives you real Menthol Magic!

mld
©1960, BROWN & WILLIAMSON TOBACCO CORPORATION ui THE MARK OF QUALITY IN TOBACCO PRODUCTS

KOOL!

YOU FEEL A
NEW SMOOTHNESS: -
DEEP IN YOUR THROAT!

  
     
   

ALSO
AVAILABLE
j . WITHOUT
Sete re FILTER
Page 4

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

 

 

 

(M NOT GOING TO GET You
ANYTHING! I WOULON'T GET
YOU SOMETHING FOR BEETHOVEN'S
BIRTHDAY IF YOU WERE THE

LAST GIRL ON EARTH!

Ses

 

 

 

 

[Sete aor ee ee
Cape. 1900 by Untied Pose Byndionan, bane

WHAT HAVE YOU 60T
AGAINST BEETHOVEN ? |

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

—~#i-22..240 leew ~v hatte
Ntty tlecee
Schicz 4-24

\

 

 

 

Trite Truths

Malcolm Brownlee Offers Poem
On The Reality Of Christmas

By MALCOLM BROWNLEE
Friday Columnist
Christmas comes but once a year
With all its candy, toys, and cheer.

Our TV sets on Christmas day
The old, familiar carols play—
They’re old by that time anyway.
Before we passed upon Thanksgiv-

ing

To Thank the Lord for prosperous

living,

Our stores were decked in colors
gay,

For Christmas was only a month
away.

These stores and shops for loving
reasons

Keep on lengthening our Christmas
Seasons.

The time is more, the rush is less

For spreading joy and happiness.

Clerks in shops are not themselves;

They now have change to Santa’s
elves.

With wondrous vision their watch
they keep.

To make goodwill and profits leap.

The nation pauses on its knees
To decorate short, plastic trees.
And while our noble friends are

kneeling,

 

Registration
Is Jan. 5, 6

Students are reminded of the
change in procedure of altering
courses for the second semester of
this school year.

All students should have obtained
their IBM sheets from the Registrar’s
office by today. The students are
urged to talk over the students’
changes with their parents over the
holidays. On January 5 and 6, in
conference with the faculty advisors
or major professors, the changes in
courses will be made. No changes,
except for failures will be made af-
ter the second semester begins.

This change was made by the ad-
ministration this year.

 

 

STATE

LEXINGTON, VA

 

is

roth ad

A plastic star hangs from the ceil-

ing.

To cover a spot where the paint is
peeling.

There are some (they’re not few)
who critically say,

That the true meaning of Christmas
reigns for only one day,

Then with trimmings and wrappings
is tucked snugly away;

That the carols we’ve heard for a
full month before

Are silenced, and we hear them no
more.

But be patient, my friends, and do
not despair,

For things are right now in a state
of repair.

As Santa departs in his deerpowered
sleight,

Christmas is only one short year

away;

And we can picture him saying in
his voice full of cheer,

“Merry Christmas to all, and pre-

pare for next year.”

The Original Drifters will perform
at a party to be given by five Wash-
ington and Lee fraternities the Sat-
urday night of Fancy Dress week-
end, it was announced today.

Roy Goodwin, social chairman of
the KA House, said that the KA,
SAE, Phi Delt, Beta and Sigma Chi
houses will combine for a party to
be held January 28 from 9 p.m. until
1 a.m. at the Mayflower.

Accompanying the Drifters, he
said, will be the Louis Candy Or-
chestra, from New York City.

Goodwin, who is handling the ar-
rangements for the party, said that
the Drifters and the Louis Candy
Orchestra were both booked from
New York through the Universal
Artists Corporation.

The party will be open to only
the members of those houses.

Tickets have been printed to dis-
tribute to members of the houses,
and will be given out in the near
future by each houses’ social chair-
man.

John Lee, Phi Delt social chair-
man, was in charge of getting the
Mayflower Inn, he said. Other social

 

 

The Hon. E. Barret Prettyman, Chief
Judge, United States Court of Appeals
at Washington D.C., will be the fea-
tured speaker at the Tucker Law Lec-
tures, April 21 and 22. He will give
a series of three lectures on the
general topic, “Some Modern Problems
in the Criminal Law.”

Born Here

Prettyman was born on August 23,
1891, here in Lexington, Va. He at-
tended Randolph-Macon College and
Georgetown University where he re-
ceived his LL.B. and LL.D.

Judge Prettyman has been very ac-
tive in governmental affairs. He served
as Special Attorney to the Bureau of
Internal Revenue in 1919-1920. In 1933,
he was appointed General Counsel to

 

 

TETLOW
TV Service

221 S. Main HO 3-2841

 

 

 

 

ahs te Be he Me te Be Be te
eee eee eee

Baker

 

a
ole
whe
le
+
ate
ate

 

 

 

 

f R. L. Hess and Bro.
JEWELERS

Lexington, Virginia
HO 3-2833

 

Ford Sales
@

BETTER DEALS

CLEARANCE
of lot for 1961 Models

 

NEW TOWN INN
Short Orders—Lunches
Catering to Students

:
;

oedeote rere edeote deo oe ofa ofe fee obeoleade ode oderte eter

NEW AND
USED CARS

Highway 60 East

 

i
"oor, ov oo Orr
Ste SMa oie. eM oe ate 8 tg Stn lle. Mtn ifn ain tan itn an ain ait itn Qt site sen ie ten en ae sie sien aiken site sla
eee eee eee eee ee eee ee eee eee eee

 

 

 

aha he Be aha ahs he ala ate he Be he he oh ate Me ate teste he ee
yt Gt Ee Et MEP MEP Pat MEE MEO RT MN SS SS SS

 

FOREIGN CARS AND

Expert Motor Work
MAIN STREET

OUR SPECIALTY

STUDEBAKER LARKS

Open 8:00 a.m.—8:00 p.m.
MOBIL STATION

 

 

 

 

(7

American

 

 

THE COLLEGE INN

The Best Food in Town

Catering to the Students, Faculty,
and Towns People

OPEN SUNDAYS

and Italian

Prettyman To Be Tucker Lecturer

the Bureau. In 1945 he was appointed
to the Court of Civil Appeals where he
now presides. Judge Prettyman also
has been Professor of Taxation at the
Georgetown University Law School
jas well as a trustee of Randolph-
| Macon College. He is a member of
Phi Beta Kappa, Kappa Sigma, Omi-
cron Delta Kappa and Sigma Upsilon.

Judge Prettyman is the author of
many articles on taxation and ad-
ministrative practices of law. He lives
in Chevy Chase, Md.

Original Drifters To Perform
At Special Fancy Dress Party

chairmen with whom Goodwin is
working are Tony Council, SAE;
Pete Pierce, Sigma Chi, and Ed Gay,
Beta.

The Original Drifters were for-
merly with Clyde McFatter until a
few years ago, when they split and
went out on their own.

The Original Drifters recorded
such hits as “Ruby Baby,” “Steam-
boat,” and recently “There Goes My
Baby.” There are five members of
the singing group, and five mem-
bers of the band, Goodwin said.

 

Danzansky Names Officers
For SWMSFC Musical

(Continued from page 1)

Brack, Phi Gam junior from Dallas,
Tex., Robert Lawson, SAE sopho-
more from Charleston, W. Va., Dick
Roberts, a junior from Wellesley,
Mass., and Don Sallinger, ZBT junior
from Dallas, Texas.

Not Filled

Danzansky also said that the po-
sition of choregrapher had not yet
been filled and positions in the crew
and construction workers corps are
still needed. Anyone interested in
these positions should contact Dan-
zansky.

The 1961 musical is an adaptation
of an old Greek comedy by Aristo-
phanes. The production, largest yet
among the SWMSFC show, calls for
more than 100 actors and actresses.

 

 

I eS

HICKMAN’S ESSO

 

didi i i in iil

HO 3-2024

 

does

 

 

 

 

 

 

Tareyton has the taste—

Dual Filter

4
4
4
3
South Main Street }
4
4
4

 

Filters for
flavor

—finest flavor by far!

it!

 

 

To Sponsor Boys Cub

The University Christian Associa-
tion will sponsor the Boys’ Club
again this year as one of its six
activities.

The Boys’ Club provides after
school recreation for both white
and colored boys of grammar school
age. The boys are taught the fun-
damentals of major sports in addi-
tion to gaining experience from
group activities.

Malcolm Brownlee, President of
U.C.A., stated that supervised re-
creation is held on Monday and
Wednesday afternoons at the colored
school and on Tuesday and Thurs-
day afternoons at the white school
by the U.C.A. According to Brown-
lee, the boys will be divided into
teams for tournaments in the various
sports.

Later this year the Boy’s Club
will begin swimming classes at the
University pool on Tuesday nights
and plans are being made for sev-
eral hikes near Lexington.

 

Swimmers Still Winning
(Continued from page 3)

me.”

Among those who are continuing
to give Eastman depth and experience
are freestylers Charlie Hart and
Charlie Gummey in the dashes, and
Herb Jahncke, a distance freestyler
whose father once swam for Twombly.
All are sophomores who won their let-
ters last season as freshmen. Co-Cap-
tains Jim Parker and Maury Purnell
are senior veterans.

Eastman, a 27-year-old native of
New Bedford, Mass., is optimistic about
swimming’s future at W&L. As good
as Twombly’s record is, Eastman
thinks he can do better, and that’s
the kind of attitude which convinced
Twombly that Eastman was the right
man to become the third man ever to
coach the sport at W&L.

Kennedy Has
Excellent Staff

(Continued from page 2)

demanded a foreign policy of leader-
ship, not reaction, in his hope that
“the foreign policy of the United
States will be identified in the minds
of the peoples of the world as a
policy that is not merely anti-Com-
munist, but is for freedom...”

Degree of Control Unknown

At present, the degree to which
Kennedy himself will control the
State Department is not known. It
is known, however, that President-
elect Kennedy is an advocate of vig-
orous executive action, and the fact
that a major criterion in his selection
of foreign policy makers has been
personal compatibility with the new
President makes it rather certain that
Kennedy himself will play a rather
important role in actual foreign-
policy formulation.

All indications are that the pres-
ence of Dean Rusk, Adlai Stevenson,
and Chester Bowles in top State De-
partment positions will result in a
new era of United States diplomacy.

These men will not lack an oppor-
tunity to prove themselves; the Sov-
iet Union’s tested formula of vig-
orous, opportunistic foreign policy
should provide this new State De-
partment with the opportunity to
respond successfully to not a few
Soviet challenges.

Merry Christmas

 

 

 

 

Wayland’s Drug Store

Prescriptions, Russell Stover
Candies

Next to Rockbridge Bank

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

DRIVE LOW

 
    

Our Best Wishes for

Happy Holidays!

The College Town Shop

See You Next Year

AND SLOW

Here’s how the DUAL FILTER DOES IT:

1, It combines a unique inner filter of ACTIVATED CHARCOAL
... definitely proved to make the taste of a cigarette mild and

smooth...

2. with a pure white outer filter. Together they select and balance
the flavor elements in the smoke. Tareyton's flavor-balance gives
you the best taste of the best tobaccos.

NEW cea FILTER la i Eyton

Product of She ‘ dann Sebaceo€ompany — Sbaceo is our middle name ©? co
 

 

 

 

 

FRIDAY
Edition

Che Ring-tum Phi

Washington and Lee Semi-Weekly Newspaper

FRIDAY
Edition

 

Volume LXI

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA, JANUARY 6, 1961

Number 27

 

 

52nd

Civil War Cc

Dr. Gaines
To Speak

By TOM RAINS
Associate Editor

A ceremony marking the opening
here in Lexington of the National
Civil War Centennial Commemora-
tion will be he'd Sunday, Jan. 8, at 2
p.m. in Lee Chapel.

Speaking on this occasion will be
former president of Washington and
Lee, Dr. Francis Pendleton Gaines,
who is now chancellor of the Univer-
sity.

This ceremony is one of several
held around the country which will
mark the opening of this centennial
commemoration. Taking place at the
tomb of General Robert E. Lee, its
primary theme will be Lee’s role in
the reconciliation of the divided
country following the Civil War and
how his work here at Washington
College was a vital element in the
unity of the North and South. It is
upon this subject that Dr. Gaines
will speak.

A similar program is being held in
New York at the tomb of General
Ulysses S. Grant, in which a bat-
talion from the United States Mili-
tery Academy will participate. A
speaker will also be present there.

Dr. William G. Bean of the Wash-
ington and Lee Department of His-
tory is in charge of the ceremonial
activities; and he announced that
the entire student body is invited to
attend.

Being a member of the Civil War
Centennial Commission for Rock-
bridge County and for the state of
Virginia, Dr. Bean was appointed
to the task by Dr. George W. Deihl,
chairman of the commission and a
member of the Rockbridge Chamber
of Commerce.

Dr. Bean has announced that rep-
resentatives from the National Cen-
tennial Commission at Washington,
D.C. will be present along with ob-
servers from the Texas centennial
commission.

Also present at the ceremony will
be Mrs. Robert Bachman of Washing-
ton who is President General of the
United Daughters of the Confeder-
acy. In addition former governor of
Virginia, William Tuck will attend.

 

 

 

The Dorsey Band to play at the Fancy Dress Ball.

 

Mr. Tuck is presently a United States
Representative in Congress from
Virginia, is Vice-Chairman of the
National Civil War Centennial Com-
mission, and is an alumnus of Wash-
ington and Lee. Mr. Tuck will pay
tribute to General Grant during the
ceremony, while at the same time a
speaker at the New York ceremony
will pay similar tribute to General
Lee.

An honor guard from the Wash-
ington and Lee Corps of Cadets will
stand at the ceremony.

Dr. Bean said that he had been
advised by the headquarters of the
National Commission that the pro-
gram will be filmed by a company
from Roanoke and will be televised
at a later date. Also WREL of Lex-
ington will broadcast the ceremonial
commemoration live from Lee
Chapel, and WLVA of Lynchburg
will tape the program.

 

 

Ceremony centers on the famous statue of Lee.—Photo by Borthwick

 

Washington and Lee Receives Texaco Scholarships
For Fifth Straight Year; Unrestricted $1,500 Given

For the fifth consecutive year,
Washington and Lee University has
been designated as a participant in
the Texaco, Inc., aid-to-education
program’s support of privately- en-
dowed colleges and universities.

President Fred C. Cole announced
the receipt of a check of $1,500 from
Texaco for unrestricted use by the
university. He said Washington and
Lee will apply the money to its
faculty salary improvement program,
as was done with other gifts from
Texaco,

“We are grateful to Texaco for
its continuing interest in Washing-
ton and Lee,” President Cole said.
“We are pleased when the work
we do merits the support of a pro-

 

gram such as that conducted by Tex-
aco, Inc., in behalf of higher edu-
cation. The company’s recognition
of the importance of privately-sup-
ported colleges and universities is
commendable and its concern for
their well-being is encouraging.
Washington and Lee will use the
grant in its program to give appro-
priate compensation to the faculty.”

The oil company’s aid-to-educa-
tion program for 1960-61 is providing
approximately $700,000 for higher
education purposes. Part represents
unrestricted gifts to privately- sup-

| sensitivity, power and beauty,”
Dr.

 

ported colleges, while part involves |

scholarship and fellowship assistance
to students at private and tax-sup-
ported institutions.

40-Piece Daura Art Show
On Display In duPont Hall

Paintings by Spanish-born artist
Pierre Daura were placed on ex-
hibition Thursday in Washington
and Lee University’s duPont Art
Gallery.

The one-man show marks Daura’s
first exhibition at the university.
The artist currently lives at Rock-
bridge Baths near Lexington.

Daura is the holder of the St.
Cecilia landscape prize which he
won in 1931 at Montserrat, France.

The exhibition is retrospective in
nature including Daura’s paintings,
drawings and sculpture done be-
tween 1928 and 1959. Some 40 works
are displayed. The show is under the
sponsorship of the Washington and
Lee department of fine arts.

A reception for the artist and his
wife was held in the gallery from 4
to 6 p.m. Thursday prior to the open-
ing of the exhibition.

Daura was formerly head of the
fine arts faculty at Randolph-Macon
Woman’s College for seven years un-
til his retirement in 1953.

“Pierre Daura’s work shows great
said
Marian Junkin, chairman of the
university’s fine arts department.

Judge Prettyman

In Law Lectures

 

 

 

“He is a painter and sculptor of
great maturity who knows both the
past and present but has always
maintained his aesthetic integrity.”

“We are proud to be able to give
his many friends in this area and
the students of Washingon and Lee
the opportunity to see paintings and
sculpture selected from the past 30
years,” Dr. Junkin added.

(Continued on age 4)

entennial Opens In Lee

|

 

Ww

Fancy Dress Ball Features Dorsey Band
Chapel

By PETER ALFORD
Friday Staff Reporter

Jim Vann, president of the W&L Dance Board, announced

today that the Tommy Dorsey
of Warren Covington, will play
January 27.

Carrying a crew of sevente

Orchestra, under the direction
for Fancy Dress Ball on Friday,

en, the orchestra is one of the

most versatile dance bands in the United States, capable of play-

 

Costume Sales
Soar; Last Days
Are Jan. 10-11

The Fancy Dress costume sale has
been very successful thus far, with
about 300 costumes already ordered.

Next Tuesday and Wednesday,
Jan, 19 and 11—from 9 to 5 in the
Student Union—the Shakespeare-
an-theme costumes will again be on
sale.

Steve Galef of the sales committee
reminds those who have ordered
costumes and have not sent in the
required measurements to do so as
soon as possible. The company is
holding the shipment because of
alterations and will send the best
costumes to those first sending in
the measurements. It is to the
benefit of the purchaser to send these
statistics in now.

Today is the last day for cancel-
lations. Anyone ordering a cos-
tume and failing to cancel it and
does not pick it up will be charged
six dollars.

The costumes may be picked up
and paid for on the afternoons of
January 26 and 27 at which time
extra alterations can be made. The
costumes and receipt stubs are to
be returned on the following Mon-
day.

Mrs. Arlene Stover of Oak Hill,
Roanoke, costumers for this ball,
states that this initial costume sale
has been the best yet and indicates a
successful Fancy Dress.

 

duPont Awards Foundation Giving

W&L $5,000 For Scholarships

The Alfred I. duPont Awards
Foundation has given Washington
and Lee University $5,000 for schol-
arships for students interested in
careers in the general field of com-
munications.

Announcement of the gift from the
Jacksonville, Fla, foundation was

| was made today by Dr. Fred C. Cole,

president of Washington and Lee.
The university is one of four colleges
receiving $5,000 each.

Scholarships from the special grant
will be awarded for the 1961-62
session. The duPont Foundation will
give the university additional $5,000
grants for 1961-63 and 1963-64, Pres-
ident Cole said.

Students majoring in journalism,
language, history, literature, edu-

The chief judge of the United/| cation, physics, electrical engineering

States Court of Appeals of the Dis-
trict of Columbia will be the key
speaker for the 13th annual Tucker
Law Lectures at Washington and
Lee University.

Judge E. Barrett Prettyman will
speak at the university April 21 and
22, according to an announcement
made by Charles P. Light, dean of
the Washington and Lee School of
Law. He will give a series of three
lectures on the general topic of
“Some Modern Problems in Crim-
inal Law.”

Judge Prettyman, chief judge of
the Washington federal court since
1945, is a graduate of Randolph-
Macon College and the Georgetown
University Law School. He holds
B.A., LL.B., and LL.D. degrees.

The Tucker Lectures were esta-
lished at Washington and Lee in
1949 in honor of John Randolph
Tucker, the first dean of the School
of Law here and president of the
American Bar Association in 1892.
The initial lectures were delivered
by the late John W. Davis, a member
of the law class of 1895.

 

and allied subjects will be eligible
for the new scholarships if they an-
ticipate communications careers.
Grants will be limited to juniors and
seniors who meet the requirements
of the foundation. Washington and
Lee officials will nominate candidates
for the awards.

The foundation expresses a spe-
cial interest in students studying for
careers in public service writing,
editing or programming, educational
broadcasting and technical fields of
transmission and reception, accord-
ing to Kenneth E. Haefele, founda-
tion secretary.

The stipends of the scholarships
will vary according to the needs of
each successful applicant, Dr. Cole
said.

“We are pleased with this action of
the Alfred I. duPont Awards Foun-
dation in the field of radio-television
and allied sciences,” Professor O. W.
Riegel, chairman of the university's
department of journalism and com-
munications, said. “The needs were

never greater for encouragement of | the

 

 

in following a communications vo-
cation.”

“T hope all the communications
industry will call to the attention of
qualified young men the establish-
ment of these substantial scholar-
ships,” Professor Riegel added.

The duPont Foundation was es-
tablished in 1942 by Mrs. Jesse Ball
duPont in memory of her late hus-
band.

Calyx Beauty
Contest Opens

Ned Ames, editor of the 1961
Calyx, announced the opening of the
Calyx Beauty Queen Contest today.

Students are asked to give pictures
of their girls or other beauties to
Ned Ames or Ken Beall at the Delta
Tau Delta House, before Feb. 1.

The Queen will reign with a court
of four girls in the beauty section
of the 1961 yearbook.

A free case of premium beer will
be awarded to the student who sub-
mits the winning photograph. Ames
said the award is being offered as
an incentive to get more students
to participate in the contest.

The pictures must be 5 by 7 inch
glossy prints. The information
that must be included is the girl's
name, her school and hometown.

=

The Queen and her court will be
selected from the entries by a well-
known celebrity. Famous stars who
have been judges in the past few
years include Burt Lancaster, Steve |
Allen and Jack Paar.

| trombonist in the Darby

King just about everything from soft
society music to hot Latin-American
cha-chas.

In the long distance call to Vann,
Covington had this to say, “It de-
pends upon what the dancers
want ... we start off our first set to
feel our audience out as to what type
of music they want to hear and
dance to. Then, we adapt ourselves to
meet this style.”

Variety of Appearances

To prove his point, Covington told
Vann that in the past few months
the orchestra played debutante balls
and other society affairs, high school
and college dances, a month-long
engagement at New York’s Hotel
Roosevelt Grille ‘and other engage-
ments throughout the country.

Covington added, “We feel, when
we play an engagement, that we have
an obligation to make the evening as
pleasant and entertaining as possible
for our guests. And the only way
we can do this is by giving our
guests the music they want to dance
io

Other Entertainment

Other entertainment is also sched-
uled for the gala weekend. Friday
afternoon The Brothers Four will
entertain at a cocktail party given
by the Phi Gamma Deltas in honor
of set president Don Partington.

The Saturday afternoon concert
for 1961 Fancy Dress will feature the
popular Dukes of Dixieland, who ap-
peared here at Springs two years
ago.

Fifty-Second Ball

This will be the 52nd Fancy Dress
Ball for W&L. The Dorsey Brothers;
Buddy Morrow, Louis Armstrong
and many other top entertainers
have participated in the Weekend in
recent years. The 1960 dance set
featured Lester Lanin and Lionel
Hampton.

Lanin played for the Ball, which
had as its theme “The Evolution of

 

Warren Covington

Man.” Lionel Hampton entertained
with a Saturday concert and at the
Saturday night dance.

This year the theme for the Ball
is “Shakespeare in the Court of St.

James” and promises to be a revival
of the old spirit of Fancy Dress
Balls.

Besides their dance engagements,
Warren Covington and the Tommy
Dorsey Orchestra have made several
long playing albums for Decca Rec-
ords. Numbered among the releases
are “The Fabulous Arrangements of
Tommy Dorsey In Hi-Fi,” “Tea for
Two Cha-Cha” (the single sold over
one million copies) “Dance and Ro-
mance,” “The Swinging Era,” and
“More Tea for Two Cha-Chas.”

Took Over in 1957

When Covington took over as
leader of the Dorsey Orchestra in
1957, he climaxed a musical career

him as a
(Pa.) High

which started off with

 

Work on the Calyx is progressing
according to schedule, Ames said, and |
he voiced the hope that many stu-|
dents would submit pictures so that |
competition for the crown will |

exceptional young people interested be stiffer than in past years.

School Band.

After high school, Covington play-
ed with several bands before settling
in New York as a singer and musi-
cian with Mitch Ayres. He shifted

(Continued on page 4)
Friday Edition

‘PROGRESS’ IS AN EVASIVE

Che KRing-tum Phi
WORD

 

Member of Virginia Intercollegiate Press Association

New Year’ s Resolutions Are Proposed
The Idea Of This University

We have readily endorsed “academic excellence,” as we
have coined it, on the Washington and Lee campus, and have
praised the seemingly new horizons in education to which we
appear to be striving. These endorsements and praises are shal-
low, however, and even more important, our understanding of
the phrases to which they apply is lacking. We pay lip service
to such high sounding concepts, often for the sake of rhetoric,
with the purpose of assuring ourselves that the blend of edu-
cation we are receiving is sufficient.

For the moment, forgetting dance plans and jazz weekends,
campus politics and the occasional trivia that often occupies
our attention, we propose a sincere appraisal of the educational
merit offered by the curriculum of this liberal arts college.

Insofar as the graduate of most modern universities, such
as ours, has collected an appreciable number of facts and de-
veloped and somewhat polished his ability to understand, eval-
uate and act, he is considered educated by the current stand-
ards. A liberal arts institution, however, should not altogether
be concerned with this wholesale distribution of facts.

Although it is indeed important that a student know the
content of the so-called fundamentals of his courses (history,
English literature, political science and all the rest), this should
be just the beginning. The importance is in the derivation of
these facts and ideas and what influences, mental or physical,
led to their inception. It is through an examination and study
of these evolving influences that we can trace the dominant |
motifs of human thought in general as they change through
the years, or their culmination perhaps in our own thinking.
A knowledge of this transition of thought, but more important,
a consideration of its origins, will lead us to a better understand-
ing of our culture, for every important institution in our so-
ciety originated through a similiar progression of thought.

Consider the following example: it may be argued that
there are several contemporary beliefs pertaining to civil rights.
We can trace much current thought back to institutions or
ideals such as the Bill of Rights and the Emancipation Procla-

 

their dates, etc., but we hold that Lincoln, as well as those ap-
praising such issues, were influenced by preconceived notions
of justice. Such notions are a part of the very core of our
thinking process, as they were in the nineteenth century, or
before, with those whose ideals forged the institutions of our
society.

We might discover that these notions were a result of many
influences upon the minds of past generations of Americans.
Perhaps a developing Judaic-Christian tradition of justice and
love, political expediences resulting from prior situations,
and influences with economic or social implications were these
preconceived credos or influences that tend to form the sub-
stance of the important events of that time.

These common beliefs can be abstracted even more to
include patterns of thought containing absolute requirements
for behavior—an example of this would possibly be man’s
basic association with a supreme being and the ramifications
of this relationship. The carry over of these notions into our
thought today will assure that any resolve that is reached,
whether it be gradual or immediate, as regards a controversy
like civil rights, will be a result of our own patterned way of
thinking.

A study, or rather, a search for these preconceived and de-
veloping patterns of thought will better enable us to appraise our
way of life, and if we find the notions archaic, disregard and
replace them, if lacking or vague, reconstruct them, or if sound,
adopt them as a foundation for action.

It is not important, therefore, that we attempt to re-apply
former concepts or decisions, but that we understand the under-
tones that confront us with a prior knowledge of these uni-
versally held and accepted notions. A survey course, which is
the blight of American education, unfortunately does not af-
ford a student the opportunity for the search that we propose.
Unless we attempt to fortify the institutions in our society, such
as free enterprise or our individual liberties, the church or
the university, by wholly understanding them, it is possible that
they will become impotent. Away with surface-scratching let’s

 

 

mation. Anyone can memorize the content of these treatises,

penetrate!

We are not altogether condemning Washington and Lee’s
method of teaching. A great part of an education is the indi-
vidual’s responsibility—private research and outside reading
for example. But a deficiency still is present in the educational
complex here that should be relieved. Unconsciously, or often
purposely, professors explore these areas of thought to which
we refer, yet this is not the rule. Rather than the mere doling
out of facts and principles, our curriculum should be vitalized
to include the exploration for the connections of thought, the
permanent ideals, the preconceived notions that lie behind the
inception of a principle or fact. This university is not alone in
its tendency to leave this area unexplored, however, for many
institutions are guilty of the neglect.

We recommend the following proposals for consideration
by the administration and the faculty:

1) The establishment of a committee composed of depart-
ment heads and representatives of the administration
which will evaluate the content of the courses offered in
undergraduate liberal arts and vitalize them to include a

goal of deeper penetration in the system of instruction.

The establishment of a new course of study similar to the
Special Programs Study at Princeton whose purpose is
“to introduce the student to the civilization of his own
day through a many-sided understanding of the major
movements of Western culture which have formed it, and
to train him to judge ideas, relating his own thinking to
an understanding of the historical background of our
civilization.”” This Great Ideas or Ideals course should
be limited to men of junior standing or above, and it should
be a required course of every major in liberal arts.

2)

Of our tradition we should be justly proud, but at the same
time we should check any drift in our academic standards to
traditionism. Educational requirements are not static. They
must evolve in the changing atmosphere of our time. It would
be difficult for a graduate with a Victorian background to
treat with wisdom the problems of this age.

A Revised Grading System Urged

A student recently defined Washington and Lee Univer-
sity as a fine school using 20th century ideas of education, but
as a school using a 19th century grading system.

We are the first to hail the ‘new era.” We feel that Wash-
ington and Lee has long awaited a new era, as this publication
has termed the forward and progressive attitude adopted here
during the last few years, and we are overjoyed to see W&L
climb in the ranks of the leading colleges across the country.

Simply because a situation exists does not make it correct.
For this reason we of this paper support, and will continue to
support, a change in the archaic and what we feel is an unfair
grading system that this university employs.

No less than three editorials and columns have appeared
on this page of the Ring-tum Phi within the last two years, all
calling for a change in the system of grading.

Perhaps those in authority have read, and have considered
change, but they have not, to our way of thinking, properly
appraised this situation, nor have they taken any definite stand
publicily other than avoiding the issue entirely.

As has been pointed out in the preceding pleas, the present
system is unfair. It is unfair because it cuts the student’s incen-
tive down to an almost negligible position. It is unfair because
a student under the present system can have an average of
70, and, on the other hand, a student having an 82 average,
will both, more than likely, receive the grade of “‘C” in the
course. From observation of the 12 point span between 70 and
82, one can easily that see the present system is out of date, and
that it is not in keeping with 20th century education.

The grade of “C plus,” we therefore assert, should be in- |

College Girls In Court On ‘Sit-In’ Charge

a traffic violation.

Ocassionally there is a slant of light
in the muck of unconcern for free-
doms and rights, an example being
the case of Dr. Uphaus. Dr. Uphaus
recently completed a year in a New
Hampshire jail after refusing to
divulge the names of his colleagues
and supporters who had met to dis-
cuss disarmament.

By ROBERT KETCHAM
Friday Columnist

students from a
school in the area
faced trial yester-
day morning,
along with four
other students, for
having participat-

Two college

leading girls’

serted in the grading system. Perhaps “C plus” should run from
76 to 82, while a “C’, still representing what the University
catalogue defines as “average” work, should range from 70 to

76.

HARVARD plus, B, B-, C plus, C, C-, D plus,

A-, B
,D-,E
plus, 1, 1-, 2 plus, 2, 2-, 3 plus, 3, 3-, 4 plus,

4-, 5 plus, 5, 5-, 6 plus 6, 6-, 7

(This system runs through “7.” The grade
comparable to a C plus in this system would be
a 3-, and 4 plus, would equal ‘“‘C”’ level work.)
Numerical system— (similar to the system at
Princeton. )

DARTMOUTH A,B, C plus C-, D, E

(Note that there is no grade of “‘C’”’ itself.)
WEST POINT Numerical system—(from 1.0 to 3.0, based
in graduations of tenths of points. The grade
or level of 2.0 would equal a C- under our
standards, while a 2.4 would equal a C plus.
This system gives the student exactly what
he has averaged in the course.)
A, B, C, D, B, F
(And don’t forget “I” if you can’t run a
mile, tread water, or swim.)

,

PRINCETON

A oO>

YALE

WeL

 

This is only a suggestion for one plan of revision in the

 

' system, but we are open to suggestions for other plans.
A rapid check of catalogues from five leading colleges and

The college Zeitgeist in the
U.S. has been student apathy and
uninvolvedness. While students in
other countries feel themselves
the heirs and shapers of policy
and political concern, such has not
been the case here. The depth of
the American student’s concern
has come in the Spring with panty
raids.

THORNS CRAVEN
Friday Columnist

With the coming of the New Year,
and all the reputed hangovers that
this arrival brings
with it, a custom
of reviewing the
year’s events has

By

universities across the nation reveals that Wé&L is in a definite
minority because it does not utilize the “plus” system of grad-
ing. (See box scores in center column.)

In this age of specialization, the increasing tendency being
adopted by employers is simply to place a tremendous empha-
sis on the graduate’s grades that he has accumulated during
his college years. For this reason, we emphasize a revision in
the grading system, a revision that would fairly and accurately
represent the student’s work.

When commencement is over and Washington and Lee
graduates start looking for jobs, here is where the grade re-
ceived in college means the most. For this reason, we believe that
the man with the 82 “C” is getting the small end of the deal,
and for this reason, we term the present system unfair.

Those who would maintain that the grade isn’t essentially
important are only avoiding the issue and are not considering
the problem objectively. Our aim in once again presenting the
issue is in hopes that the faculty and the administration will
take an objective stand, and that they will publicly announce
that stand.

We feel that if W&L is to have top-notch men represented
in all fields in the future—medicine, the arts, law, journalism, en-
gineering, and in all the liberal arts fields—then the grading
system must be changed to keep pace with the new era.

Calling for revision and for suggestions in a revamping of
the present grading system is the purpose of this editorial. It
is our sincere hope that this plea will not, as has been the fate of
the other requests for change, go unnoticed and unheeded.

 

Craven Reviews Year’s Events

That Were Outstanding For W&L

—R. R.G.
Che Ring-tum Phi

Friday Edition
The Ring-tum Phi is published Tues-
day and yrigey during the college year.
It is printed Ww, the Journalism Labor-
vers Press, ashington and Lee Uni-
versity. The mailing address is Box
Lexington, Va,

gy Ronee: ag second class matter Sep-

1960 was the year that Dr. Finch
murdered his wife, that Caryl Chess-

man got gassed, and that Pittsburgh lomsser 20, 1946 at the Post Office, Lex-
, gton, Va., und th t
won the World Series. What would | 3, 1878. oe oe ee

National Advertising Representative:
The National Advertisers Ve Inc.,
420 Madison Ave., New York, N
Editor-in-Chief................ Nathan Simpson
Huntley Biggs

we do without these spurs to our
memories of what happened last
year? We'd have to write our own
dairies, or at least read somebody

 

 

ed in a sit-in dem-
onstration in
Lynchburg.

The moral cour-
age exemplified in
this Ghandian ap-

 

a proach to the
Ketcham problem of inte-
gration is quite

admirable. It is to be contrasted

with the usual student arrests for
drunkenness, disorderly conduct or

 

Villian Is House Committee

The villian in his case was the
House Un-American Activities Com-
mittee, which demanded the names
of these men who had dared to see
anything wrong with the arms race.
Shades of McCarthy. Dr. Uphaus
chose to spend the year in jail
rather than have the standing and
careers of fellow scientists suffered
to the hands of the Committee.

I know of in a number of years by
students is being carried on around
the Bay Area of San Francisco. Stu-
dents there have planned a cam-
paign against the House Un-Amer-
ican Activities Committee, a cam-
paign which is now going on. The
academic community of the Bay Area
has been subjected to some really
(Continued on page 4)

 

The first political expression that |;

 

 

arisen. Usually
these reviews are
just little capsule
reminders of what
happened, who
died, and they end
up with some
comment on what
it all means. Now
these things are
fine, and I like to be reminded that

Craven

else’s, and that is too tedious, even
if it isn’t uninteresting.

But most of these year-end re-
views don’t dwell too long on im-
provements, and none of them that
I've seen have even mentioned
Washington and Lee improvements.
So I'll give it a whirl:

Do you remember, back in Sep-
tember, the thrill of seeing the new
(Continued on page 4)

 

 

Editorial Board
Menaging Editor...
Assistant Managinj

News Editor.....

 

Roy Goodwin
Andy Nea

   
  
  
 

Sports Editor....... ... Bill t
Associate Editor.. taal Reine
Copy Editor........... ..lom Jordan

Advertising Manager, dward Holmes
Circulation Manager..........Peter Agelesto
Office Manage .......ccsscscoecessossosess Don McFall

 

 

NOTICE
The Friday Editorial Board will
meet Wednesday at 5 p.m.

 

 
 

 

THE RING-TUM PHI

Page 3

 

W&L Cagers Return To Friendly Home Court
For Saturday Night Contest With Chattanooga

By JOHN ALLGOOD
Assistant Sports Editor

Washington and Lee cager’s re-
turn to action in the friendly con-
fines of Doremus Gymnasium to-
morrow night against Chattanooga’s
deadly Moccasins.

The 8 p.m. contest is the first of
three straight home games for the
Generals. Monday night they face
Hampden-Sydney and Wednesday
night they play host to Bridgewater,
which downed the Generals, 57-50, in
their season’s opener.

Tomorrow’s opponent, Chatta-
nooga, is “big and subsidized,”
according to W&L Coach Bob Mc-
Henry.

“They have the same team back
this year that beat us by 11 points

 

John Kirk
... Starts Scoring Play

 

last year,’ McHenry said. “Satur-
day’s game will be a tough battle.”
Although Chattanooga is a small
school, it plays some big-time op-
ponents. In the Moccasins most re-
cent clash with a large school, they
lost to Vanderbilt, a Southeastern
Conference powerhouse, by 14 points.

Thackston Leads Scoring

The Generals go into tomorrow’s
game with two men scoring in
double figures. Guard Brett Thacks-
ton and forward Ken Kowalski boast
14.5 and 10.7 averages respectively.

Bip Fauber sports a 9.4 mark
while center John McDowell has a
6.2 average.

Thackston has scored the most
field goals with 48, 11 more than
second-place Kowalski, and has
made the most free throws with
20 out of 26—a 76.9 percentage.

Fauber has hit 19 of 26 charity
tosses for a 73.1 percentage while
the remainder of the squad is aver-
aging around 50 per cent from the
free throw line.

In the rebounding department,
Fauber has a commanding lead with
a 16.5 average. McDowell is second
with a 10.1 mark.

In team statistics, Washington
and Lee is averaging 54.9 points
per game while its opponents are
getting 63.7 points. The difference

 

has been at the free throw line,
Washington and Lee’s early season
bugaboo.

W&L has made 73 of 130 free
throws—a 56.1 percentage; but the
Generals’ opponents have connected

on 120 of 188 free throws for a 65.1
percentage.

Despite their lack of height, the
Generals hold a slight lead over
their opponents in the rebounding
department. For eight games the

 

THREE-HAND TOUCH—McDowell, Rutledge fight for rebound.

 

Swimmers Drop

First Meet

In 2 Years

As West Virginia Captures 56-39 Win

Well, it took the General tankmen
almost two years to meet defeat,
but Coach Eastman and his boys
now know of Lexington’s most com-
mon feeling during the winter sea-
son. Subsidization and a powerful
band of Mountaineers from West

noon, W&L managed to pick up
only three first places. Co-captain
Jim Parker placed first in the
50-yd. freestyle event with a win-
ning time of 24 seconds.

Elliott Maynard kept his winning
streak intact in the 200-yard breast-

Virginia proved too much for the |
Generals in a meet on Dec. 16 at)
Morgantown, and they wound up
on the short end of a 56-39 score.
Coach Eastman, however, seemed |
to take it all in like so much water |
off a duck’s back. “We just under- |

stroke, by winning the event in
2:30.6.
| The final big tally came from

 

 

TOLLEY’S PHARMACY

estimated them,” he remarked, “the
boys all turned in their best times
this season—they were just better,
that’s all.”

During the course of the after-

Prescriptions Filled
Immediately

PURCHASE DRUGS
HO 3-2211

 

 

 

Hamric and Sheridan
JEWELERS

Watch and Jewelry Repair
Hand Engraving and Class Rings

HO 3-2022

 

 

 

 

 

Wayland’s Drug Store

Prescriptions, Russell Stover
Candies

Next to Rockbridge Bank

 

 

 

 

Segeereerereer erry eerrs
= R.L. Hess and Bro.
JEWELERS
Lexington, Virginia
HO 3-2833

rede oder ore rde rte ake oe endo rfe rhe oe ole ole ole oho ode sie ofe oto
SOSSSOSLOO0S90 900009908
%

$ IDEAL
BARBER SHOP

QUICK SERVICE

He deterte erode rte tors

he sforde rte ote ofe she ode oy

Bebb bebe dob hehehehehe

 

 

Traditional
W&L BLAZER
With University Crest
and Buttons

The

COLLEGE TOWN
Shop

Student Charge Accounts
Welcomed

 

 

 

For those extra pieces

of
FURNITURE

for your room
see our stock
before buying

®
VARNER AND POLE

$O0900000000000000000008
CALL BY NUMBER
and Save Time
LEXINGTON
TELEPHONE CoO.

%
%
%
%
;
*
Fede rose sfonde oe afoot nfo ode ode oe oe oe oe oho oe oe oe oe oe ofr ode

ee ss se Se

 

4
4
4
‘
r
4
4
4
4
4

 

 

VARSITY
BILLIARD
ACADEMY

Catering
To Students

Corner of

Washington and Jefferson

 

 

 

Radio Hospital
*
Radio, TV, Phonograph
Sales and Service

+

HO 3-3531

 

 

 

 

Hunter Tracht, a first year man
although a senior, who captured
first place in the diving contest.

The brunt of the Generals’ score
was accounted for in the second
and third place scores, as the Blue
picked up three second places,
and eight third places.

The tankmen now have a 3-1 rec-
(Continued on page 4)

Se Be rhe defo fe fo ofo odo ofe ofo ere cde fe efoofe fe ohooh orfereee

White’s Music
Store

(Opposite State Theater)
i
Phonographs—Hi-Fi
Expert Repair Service
i

5 W. Nelson St. Lexington, Va. :
HO 3-3522

 

Bh bdete hee beoh h Pebdoe

COSCO LOHOSHOOSSOHSOHHHOOHOSEOSOHOSSOOHO OOOO OOOOE
FOR ROOM RESERVATIONS—CALL HO 3-2151 ®

LEXINGTON MOTEL
Large Rooms—U. S. 11 By-Pass South
Free TV—Phones—Continental Breakfast
Only Motel in corporate limits of Lexington
COOHCSSOSSSHSOSSOSSOOHOOSSOSOOSSOHOSSHSSOOCOO OSES

 

 

FOREIGN CARS AND

Expert Motor Work

OUR SPECIALTY

MAIN STREET MOBIL STATION

STUDEBAKER LARKS

Open 8:00 a.m.—8:00 p.m,

 

 

 

 

The Southern Inn

Cordially invites you to make this your headquarters for good food
Here you get the best food for the most reasonable prices

Our Specialties:

Steaks, Chicken, Country Ham, and the best sandwiches
in town

Meet your friends here

 

 

Generals have averaged 51.7 re-
bounds per game while their op-
ponents have pulled down an aver-
age of 47.9 rebounds.

F&M Nips Generals, 60-56

Free throws deprived the Gener-
als of a victory for the third time
this season when Franklin and Mar-
shall tripped them, 60-56, December
16.

Washington and Lee grabbed a
32-22 lead at halftime, but saw the
victory slowly swish away as Frank-
lin and Marshall sank 18 of 20 free
throws in the second half while
W&L made only two of four.

Thackston, Kowalski, John Kirk,
and Fauber combined to give the
Generals their halftime lead, but
only Thackston continued to find
the range from the floor in the
second half. The 5-9 guard ended
up with 21 points, which equalled
the best scoring performance by
Washington and Lee player this
season, |

In the first game the Generals’ |
two-game, pre-Christmas northern |
swing, Catholic University bashed
the Generals, 65-48.

Again the Generals had a good
first half and a cold second half.

 

 

‘Killer’ Kowalski
...Fires Jump Shot

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

They trailed by only four points,

33-29, at intermission. It’s Good usiness
Again Thackston was the scoring To Do usiness
sparkplug as he poured in 15 points, with IERER’S

ten of which came in the first half.
Steve Rutledge added nine points PHARMACY
and McDowell, eight.

THE DUTCH INN

For Reservation Call
MRS. KATHERINE ADAMS
HO 3-3433

Baker
Ford Sales

@

 

 

 

 

 

 

Green Valley Motel

One Mile North on
U. S. Highway No. 11

CLEARANCE
of lot for 1961 Models

NEW AND
USED CARS

Highway 60 East

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA
HO 3-2195

she the he Be ete he Be Be Be Be Be Be Be Be Be Be Be Be Be Be Be Be Ba Ba Be tee ta Ba Bete tle tte Be
EO ES ES eS

 

 

 

 

4
4
‘
4
4
re
4
4
‘
4
4
4
4
4
;
BETTER DEALS 3
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
*
‘
4
4
4

eS Se eS ee Se ee

 

 

 

Shirt Service as You Like it

Quality Cleaning and Pressing
UNIVERSITY CLEANERS

4
4
4
4
HO 3-3622 7
4
* 1
4
a
4
4
4
4

“Your Campus Neighbors”

 

Bebe Ge beede boob obe be eee rhe oho so rde rhe obo obo obese oe oho oho ofe rhe oho oe ofo oe oe oe se rhe oe oe of ee oe oe oe ode sooo oo onge
COOOOOHSSOSSOOOHHSSHOOEOOOHOOHOSSOOOROOCOCOOESOEOS

Ted’s Steak House
Finest Foods
Choice Meats

Ww
SUNDAY DINNERS

Route 60 Buena Vista

 

 

DIXON’S

ESSO SERVICE CENTER
ROUTE 60 EAST IN LEXINGTON

Across from the White Top Resturant
HO 3-4214

Wash, Grease, Lube, Road Service

Charge Accounts Welcome

 

 

 

Open a convenient student Checking account
TODAY

at

Rockbridge National Bank

Member Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation

 

 

 

 

 

THE COLLEGE INN

The Best Food in Town

American and Italian

Catering to the Students, Faculty,
and Towns People

OPEN SUNDAYS

 

 

 

 

The First National Bank

of Lexington
*
has special checking accounts

for students

 

 

 

 
Page 4

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

College Girls ti Coun On ‘Sit-In’ Charge

(Continued from page 2)

vicious invasions of academic free-
dom which has aroused the students.

Has Made Film

The Committee, whose actions are
oftentimes dubious enough, has put
together a film called Operation Ab-
olition which may be obtained from
a commercial film company for $100
and has been shown to some Federal
Agencies and colleges. The film de-
velops the theme that the students
were naughty and non-thinking and
are now disheartened and ashamed
after the episode which was the
demonstration in San Francisco. As
if this were not enough, they also
state that the demonstration was
Communist instigated, and the FBI
concurs in this opinion!

These are serious charges. Is
this the price for a political com-
ing-of-age? Many persons have
come out against the Committee
and against this film for the fright-
ening ability to defame by mass
communications the right to be
concerned and to raise questions,

The sit-in demonstrations are an-
other area where student involv-
ment is on the increase. Many stu-
dents have proved their willingness
to stand up and act for what they
regard as important. Nor does the
opposition always come from those
with opposite views, racists if you
will. People with “good judgment,”
those with a social conscience who
profess to believe in the equalities
spelled out by the 14th amendment
have been equally to blame.

 

40 Piece Daura Art Show
On Display in duPont Hall

(Continued from page 1)

Sixty-four-year-old Daura was
born in Barcelona, Spain, where he
studied at the Fine Arts School. In
1913, he went to Paris and continued
his studies under Emile Bernard.
In 1928, he married the former
Louise Blair of Richmond, Va. They
moved to Saint Cirq-laPopie, Lot,
France, where the artist still main-
tains a summer home.

During 1936 and 1937, Daura fought
for the Loyalist Army in the Spanish
Civil War. A year later he moved
his family to Rockbridge Baths. He
conducted art classes in Lexington
from 1943 to 1945 when he moved
to Lynchburg.

Naturalized in 1943, Daura has par-
ticipated in group shows in Belgium,
Holland, Spain and the United
States. He has held one-man shows
in France, Australia and Argentina.

His work has been shown at the
Virginia Museum of Fine Arts, Yale
University, Hollins College, Ran-
dolph-Macon Woman’s College and
the Lynchburg and Roanoke Fine
Arts Centers.

| Pe Be

FRI-SAT.

 

 

 

' COLDITZ STORY

Stornng JOHN MILLS

 

 

SUN. - MON, - TUES.

© 'YMALLRIGHT® ° ¢ 9
8 ume

  

A BOULTING OROTHERS PRODUCTION - A COLUMBNA ACTORS RELEASE @

 

 

 

Serve as Example

The previously mentioned female
students serve as a concrete ex-
ample. These girls acted on their
own initiative and because of per-
sonal beliefs in the necessity for
action and encouragement of inte-
gration. They did not go up to the
lunch counter without knowledge
of the possible consequences. They
doubtless knew of the local law
which has been passed to deal with
this sort of thing by accusing those
sit-in demonstrators of trespassing.

In October of 1960 a Sophie New-
comb sophomore on a full scholar-
ship was taken to police headquart-
ers for questioning after she had
participated in a sit-in in her own
town of New Orleans. The police
asked her why she wanted to do
such a thing, she, a southern girl.
The college, “while disapproving of
(her) actions, has supported her
right to express personal beliefs.”

The girls at the neighboring in-
stitution have not been so fortu-
nate. The President of the school.
has criticized their action in a
school assembly and they are on
some sort of probation which is
similar to our conduct probation,
if I am not mistaken. The school
paper has written a blistering edi-
torial pointing out that they broke
a law to show their “disapproval of
existing laws,” and in Motherly
fashion chided them for being so
rash.

The fact remains that the local
law has not been tested. By getting
that law into the courts action may
be started to either overrule or up-
hold this narrow, fear-based local
law. Until the law is contested it
shall stand. Some might not feel
that the time was propitious to

 

Swimmers Lose to W. Va.
(Continued from page 3)

ord which they plan to put on the
line next Friday when they meet
ACC powerhouse, University of
Maryland. This meet will be in
Doremus gymnasium at 4:30.

 

Dorsey’s Band
Here At FD

(Continued from page 1)

to the Horace Heidt Band in 1942
and shortly afterwards joined the
Coast Guard and spent part of his
service career with the “Tars and
Spars” review.

With Krupa

After the war, Covington joined
Les Brown’s Band and then played
gor Gene Krupa’s band. Wanting to
settle down in the city, Covington
joined the Columbia Broadcasting
System’s musical staff. From 1946
until 1956 he played such popular
shows as Arthur Godfrey’s, Perry
Como’s, Ed Sullivan’s, and Robert Q.
Lewis.

In 1956 Covington left CBS to ac-
cept the leadership of Decca Rec-
ords young band, The Commanders.
From here, after Tommy Dorsey
passed away, Covington took over the
Tommy Dorsey Orchestra.

 

dhe he ahs he he he ihe he he he Be Be Me le la a le
ee ee eee ee eee

 

THE NEW

White Top
Restaurant
*

A personal invitation
to the
Students

Try our delicious foods
Route 60 East

Sie Me Me Me Me Be Me de Ma Ma Be Ba Be Be Ba ha Ba Ba a te te a a a ta a ta a Ba ita Ba Bade Be
a a a le ee ls ee
ite he tte the ate te te a ae ie ase Be he Be Bae Ba Ba Be Ba Ba Ba Ba Me BeBe Be Bate Bate taBe
Te TT TT ee eT eT eT eC eee

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ROCKBRIDGE LAUNDRY

and
Dry Cleaners

Shirts Transparently Wrapped
for Freshness
*
AGENTS:

Fraternities, Dorms and Co-op

 

 

 

 

 

raise the issue but they should un-
derstand the basic rights for indi-
vidual concern which are involved.

The heartening aspect in the afore-
mentioned events is that students
are becoming concerned. They are
developing a political consciousness
contra opinions of middle aged sages
who have attempted to psychoanalyze
a whole generation. When people
can think outside themselves and
seek to strengthen the freedoms of
equality, press, assembly and speech
it is a wonderful thing. Winston
Churchill has said of democracy that
“it is the worst form of government
save for all the others.” Such stu-
dent concern for our democracy
and its betterment is to be admired
and furthered.

 

 

Dr. Cecil Eby Writes Book
On Life of Strother

A biography of David Hunter
Strother, writer of the Old South,
by Dr. Cecil D. Eby, Jr., associate
professor of English at Washington
and Lee University, will be publish-
ed Jan. 21.

The 258-page book is entitled
“Porte Crayon”: The Life of David
Hunter Strother. It is being published
by the University of North Carolina
Press.

The biography is Dr. Eby’s second
book. He is the author of The Old
South Illustrated, published in 1959.

Dr. Eby joined the Washington and
Lee faculty in September after teach-
ing at Madison College for two years.
He received his A.B. degree from
Shepherd College, his M.A. from
Northwestern University and his
Ph.D. from the University of Penn-
sylvania.

Lebeeeeteetetett dads

; ROBERT E. LEE

BARBERSHOP *

David M. Moore :
Proprietor

as
COSSSOOOCHHHHO COLE OCEEOCE

TEXACO
Super Service Station
Lexington, Virginia
Corner Main and Nelson
eeeseeseeeeeoooeeoeeee

 

 

(Continued from page 2)
folding chairs in Doremus Gymna-
sium? This was a moment which
was destined to be recalled in the
hearts of W&L men long after
undergraduate days have been for-
gotten. What can match the emo-
tional impact of seeing those chairs,
each one poetically inscribed with
W&L, gleaming on a newly polish-
ed floor, as that scratchy beat-up,
79 rpm antique pealed out the
lovely notes of Pomp and Circum-
stance while the faculty cha-cha-
ed to their seats?

And what about the new side-
walks? They are truly lovely, and as
the rain calmly gurgles down them
at night, filling your shoes and
making your stroll excitingly danger-
ous, who can deny that progress is
not truly wonderful?

Then there is the motorized vacu-
um cleaner, which first made its ap-

1960. The year was definitely more
beneficial to all concerned because
of its presence.

The sight of one of those bags
of leaves falling off, spilling its
contents all over the campus, to
be captured again by the rakers on
foot, was a thrilling experience.
Can we dare to hope for its recur-
rence next fall?

 

 

Waggy’s Jewelers
35 S. Main Street
Phone HO 3-4121

THE HOME OF QUALITY

 

 

sDodge and Dodge Dart?
and Lancer

America’s First Fine

ECONOMY CAR
*

Rockbridge Motor Co.
INC.

Phone HObart 3-3146

 

 

Lexington
Laundro Matic

209 S. Main

*

HAND IRONED
SHIRTS

Dry Cleaning
Service

for your convenience

 

 

 

Spencer General
Tire

E. Nelson Street Extension

BEST IN TIRES
GENERAL

Best in Recapping

Kraft Tread

Compact Tires

 

 

he Be ate ahs ale she Be Be he Me he Be he Mle Me Be le Be Be Be Bs Be Be Be Be Be Bs Be Bo Be Be Be Ba Be Be Be Be Ba Ba Bla Ba Ba Bs Ba Bea Be Be

 

he she she ale ate ae ale te Be Be le Be Be Be Be le Ba Be Be Ba Ba Bae Be le Ba ite Bette tle te te Bate
ie i ie ae ve he ie le ee i ie

 

eT TT Tee TTC CCCeCOrOreorrerovervverrrrevseerere

We Feature

SEALTEST

Dairy Products
“To get the best get Sealtest’’

over twenty different products in addition to
delicious Sealtest ice cream

Block and Crushed Ice

Your favorite mixes—Ice Cold

x
Maple-Rock Distributors, Inc.

he he he he he Be Bo Be Be Be Be Be Be Be Be Bo Ba Be Be Be

the the the the ote ale the the she le te tte the Be Be he Be Ba te Ba Ba Ba Ba ta Ba Ba Be Ba Ba ta Ba ite Be
eee eee te SS ey

 

a
EES SS TS eT

 

|
*

 

 

 

STUDENT

 

 

  

ACCOUNTS
Member F. D. I. C.

 

&

INVITED HERE

 

 

 

pearance in that wonderful year, ||j

Craven Reviews Year’s Events

That Were Outstanding For W&L

But the most inspiring change
brought to Washington and Lee
during 1960 rightfully occurred with-
in the hallowed walls of McCormick
Library. I’m speaking of the new
lights which joyfully drone and hiss
about progress in academia, and
which have brought sleep to count-
less insomniacs among the student
body. I’m at a loss for words when
I try to recall the first time I peace-
fully dozed in the drowsing room,
lulled to sleep by the lights which
drown out all conversation.

I’m so choked up by the changes
that have occurred in 1960 that I
can only thank the University for
seeing fit to make this progress, and
for making 1960 a better year in
which to live.

 

NOTICE

Dr. Sprunt to talk at Wesley
Foundation, Sunday at 6 p.m.

 

LS ee

Charity Chest Drive

A goal of $3,000 has been set for
this year’s University Charity Chest
Drive. The IFC sponsored drive will
last from Tuesday, Jan. 10 through
Thursday, Jan. 12. Pledge cards will
be distributed to fraternities and law
students both on Monday. Non-fra-
ternity men will also be contacted.
The money raised will be divided
among several of the worthy charities
that need funds desperately. It is
hoped that everyone will dig down
and give what he can for this once-
a-year drive.

 

The Lexington Grotto, N.S.S. will
meet briefly this evening at 7:30
in the basement of the Student
Union.

 

 

TETLOW
TV Service

 

 

HICKMAN’S ESSO

South Main Street
HO 3-2024

 

i li a

 

 

221 S. Main HO 3-2841

 

 

 

 

 

Shulman

(Author of “I Was a Teen-age Dwarf”, “The Many
Loves of Dobie Gillis’, etc.)

 

1961: YEAR OF DECISION

Well sir, here we are in 1961, which shows every sign of being
quite a distinguished year. First off, it is the only year since
1951 which begins and ends with the Figure 1. Of course, when
it comes to Figure 1’s, 1961, though distinguished, can hardly
compare with 1911, which, most people agree, had not just two,
but three Figure 1’s! This, I’ll wager, is a record that will stand
for at least two hundred years!

1911 was, incidentally, notable for many other things. It
was, for example, the year in which the New York Giants played
the Philadelphia Athletics in the World Series. As we all know,
the New York Giants have since moved to San Francisco and
the Philadelphia Athletics to Kansas City. There isa movement
afoot at present to move Chicago to Phoenix—the city, not the
baseball team. Phoenix, in turn, would of course move to
Chicago. It is felt that the change would be broadening for
residents of both cities. Many Chicago folks, for example, have
never seen an iguana. Many Phoenix folks, on the other hand,
have never seen a frostbite.

There are, of course, certain difficulties attending a municipal
shift of this size. For instance, to move Chicago you also have
to move Lake Michigan. This, in itself, presents no great prob-
lem, what with modern scientific advances like electronics and
the French cuff. But if you will look at your map, you will find
that Lake Michigan is connected to all the other Great Lakes,
which in turn are connected to the St. Lawrence Seaway, which

      

\

Mer Westley Qua?
ead

in turn is connected to the Atlantic Ocean. You start dragging
Lake Michigan to Phoenix and, willy-nilly, you’ll be dragging
all that other stuff too. This would make our British allies
terribly cross, and I can’t say as I blame them. I mean, put
yourself in their place. What if, for example, you were a British
workingman who had been saving and scrimping all year for a
summer holiday at Brighton Beach, and then when you got to
Brighton Beach there wasn’t any ocean? There you'd be with your
tnner tube and snorkel and nothing to do all day but dance the
Lambeth Walk. This, you may be sure, would not make you
NATO-minded!

I appeal most earnestly to the residents of Chicago and
Phoenix to reconsider. I know it’s no bowl of cherries going
through life without ever seeing an iguana or a frostbite, but I
ask you—Chicagoans, Phoenicians—is it too big a price to pay
for preserving the unity of the free world? I am sure that if
you search your hearts you will make the right decision, for
all of us— whether we live in frostbitten Chicago, iguana-ridden
Phoenix, or narrow-lapelled New Haven—are first and foremost
Americans!

But I digress. We were speaking of 1961, our new year. And
new it is! There is, for one thing, new pleasure in Marlboro
Cigarettes. How can there be new pleasure in Marlboros when
that fine, flavorful blend, that clean easy draw filter, have not
been altered? The answer is simple: each time you light a
Marlboro, it is like the first time. The flavor is such that age
cannot wither nor custom stale. Marlboro never palls, never
jades, never dwindles into dull routine. Each pack, each
cigarette, each puff, makes you glad all over again that you are
a Marlboro smoker!

“a7

So, Marlboros in hand, let us march confidently into 1961.
May good fortune attend our ventures! May happiness reign!
May Chicago and Phoenix soon recover from their disappoint-

ment and join our bright cavalcade into a brave tomorrow!
© 1961 Max Shulman
+ + +
The makers of Marlboro and of the new unfiltered king-size
Philip Morris Commander join Old Max in adding their good
wishes for a happy and peaceful 1961.
 

 

TUESDAY
Edition

Che Ring-tun Phi

Washington and Lee Semi-Weekly Newspaper

TUESDAY
Edition

 

Volume LXI

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA, JANUARY 10, 1961

Number 28

 

IFC Turns Down New Help Week Plan

 

Dr. Gaines Praises Gen. Lee’s

Work To Reunify United States

By STEVE HENRY

Washington and Lee University Chancellor Francis P.
Gaines opened the National Civil War Centennial Commem-
oration in Lee Chapel Sunday, saying that Robert E. Lee of-
fered the South a new version of hope during a period when the
by-word in the naton was “‘chaotic confusion.”

Dr. Gaines, introduced by Virginia Congressman William

 

*
M. Tuck as a “man who represents”

to the highest degree the principles
of Lee,” said that the Confederate
commander’s part in the re-uniting
of the country “cannot be estimated.”

“With complete charity and pa-
tience, Lee healed his _ people’s
wounds,” said Gaines.

“Even though he lost everything,
there were no ‘might have beens’ of-
fered, no bitterness, no resentment.

“Lee personally opened the doors
of tomorrow to the gifted and united
youth of the South.”

Gaines’ speech, which received
wide-spread radio and_ television
coverage, coincided with a similar
ceremony held in New York at the
tomb of Ulysses S. Grant.

The program here at Washington
and Lee was arranged largely
through the efforts of Dr. William
Bean, head of the History Depart-
ment. Included in the ceremony were
The Rt. Rev. Lloyd Craighill, re-
tired Bishop of the Episcopal Diocese
of Anking, China, Virgil Carrington
Jones, presiding member of the
National Civil War Centennial Com-
mission, Congressman William M.
Tuck of Virginia, who is vice chair-
man of the National Commission,
and Mrs. Robert Bacham, president-
general of the UDC.

The following is the complete
text of Dr. Gaines Speech.

The little town of Lexington, in
which these exercises are held, has
been called “The Shrine of the
South.” Here General Jackson lived
and here he is buried. Here Commo-
dore Maury lived and died. Here
General Pendleton, Chief of Artil-
lery for the Army of Northern Vir-
ginia, came, to take off the uniform of
war and put on the uniform of God
while he served as rector of our
Episcopal church. There is much af-
fection and there is some accuracy
in the term, “Shrine of the South.”

Yet when we think of General Lee,
who gave the five post-war years of
his life to a college located in this
community, we realize that our town
might justly be known as “The
Shrine of a Reunited Country.” The
role that Lee played in the drama of
reunion cannot be over-estimated.
He, perhaps more than any other
person, could have kept open the
wounds of war. Instead, with com-
plete charity and patience, he sought
to heal.

In some essential ways, he had lost
more than any other person. He lost,
of course, his property, his position,

his income, his profession. He sur-|

rendered an army in the open field,
and thus lost a war; there was no
hope of any kind after Lee had quit.
He even lost citizenship and was to
die simply a paroled prisoner of war.

But he closed resolutely every door
of yesterday. He offered no apology
and attempted no explanation. He
proposed no hypothesis of what
might have been. His devoutly
Christian soul rejected all bitterness
and harbored no resentment. He
busied himself about opening the
doors of tomorrow and for a reunit-
ed country. If he had a slogan, it was
a simple but an eloquent one: “We
are all Americans now.” The beauti-
ful dream of reconciliation flowered
first in the capacious soul of Robert
E. Lee. And here on this campus the
first fair fruits were seen.

After all, I venture to emphasize
the part General Lee played in re-
union not so much for what he did,
important as that chronicle may be,
but for the power of his example. It
was more difficult for the South to
enter into the spirit of accepance
and renewal. It lost the struggle. Its
economy was devastated. Since most
of the war was fought on Southern
soil, the destruction of war wrote
in hideous terms the loss of South-
ern property. And in gentle truth it
may be added that while the pall of
tragedy lay heavily on both sections,
it was perhaps darker in the South
with the sad awareness that the all

(Continued on page 4)

 

Troubs To Give
Pirandello Play

In Spring Series *

Auditions for the forthcoming |
Troubadour productions are to be|
held at the theater tonight, 7:30-9:30. |
The play is Luigi Pirandello’s Henry |
IV, with the cast consisting of elev- |
en male and two female parts.

A three-act serious drama, Henry
IV has its setting in contemporary
Italy. The title role is portrayed as an
eccentric, who has developed the il-
lusion that he is Henry IV, an elev-
enth century emperor of Germany.

Charles di Nolli, the nephew of
“Henry IV,” takes charge of the
household and humors his uncle by
permitting a royal court to be set up.
To complete the setting, he hires a
crew of four to act as the “private
counsellors of the emperor.”

Also appearing on the scene are
Baron Tito Belcredi, a cynic and
lover of Henry’s ex-sweetheart, and
Dr. Genoni, a psychiatrist employed
to investigate Henry’s case history.
The two female characters are the
Marchioness, the middle-aged ex-
sweetheart of Henry, and her young
daughter Frieda.

Pirandello, one of today’s most
prominent Italian playwrights, has
written the play as somewhat of a
tragedy, evoking some _ interesting
ideas about the closeness of reality
and illusion. “It shows how every
one must harbor some degree of il-
lusion just to keep his sanity,” com-
ments Dr. Cecil Jones, who will di-
rect the play.

Rehearsals will begin at the start
of the second semester and the pro-
duction is planned for the evenings
of March 8, 9, and 10.

Costume Sales
Hit 400 Mark

Tomorrow will be the last day for
the sale of Fancy Dress costumes.
Mrs. Arlene Stover reports that more
than 400 costumes have already been
sold. |

All students who have not yet
sent in their date’s measurements
are urged to bring them to Mrs.
Stover tomorrow in the Student
Union. Those students who order
costumes but do not pick them
up will be charged six dollars.

 

 

The costumes will be delivered |
to school by Friday, January 28, |
when students will be able to pick|
them up in the Student Union. Stu- |
dents pay for the costumes when
they pick them up.

Mrs. Stover says that the costume |
company in Massachusetts, with)
which we are dealing, told her that
the costumes for the figure were |
among the most magnificent that |
they had ever seen. She also said |
that she expected the other costumes
to be far better than in recent years.

 

Frank Hoss To Head PAD;
Lemmon Is Vice- Justice

Frank A. Hoss, law senior from
Manassas, Virginia, was eiected on
Friday to the office of Justice of the
Phi Alpha Delta law fraternity. Hoss
is a graduate of Washington and Lee
University, where he was active in
sports during his four years as an
undergraduate. He has been active in
all phases of law school activities,
including the Law Review, Moot
Court competition, and fraternity
functions.

Other officers elected at Friday’s
meeting were Junius (Phyz) Lem-
mon, Vice-Justice; Jim Howe, sec-
retary; Joe Spivey, treasurer; and
Andrew McThenia, Marshal.

 

z=

 
       

Dr. Francis P. Gaines delivers an eulogy to General Robert E. Lee before the audience in Lee Chapel for the cere-

monies commemorating the beginning of the Civil War Centennial.

—Photo by Young

 

Rhodes Aid

W&L Representative Fares Well
In ’61 Rhodes Grant Competition

By HAL McCLANAHAN

“To me, W&L was extremely well-
represented in the Rhodes Scholar-
ship competition this year.” These
are the words used by Dr. Fitzgerald
Flournoy, Chairman of the Rhodes
Scholarship Committee of W&L, to
describe the five students from W&L
entering the Scholarship contest this
year.

Nathan Simpson was one of the
two students chosen to represent
Florida in the District Three finals
in Atlanta, Georgia, as well as the
only one of W&L’s five students to
make the district finals in the Rhodes
Scholarship competition.

The other students from W&L
that entered the Rhodes competi-
tion this year are Palmer Pard-
ington, Roy Carpenter, Henry Har-

rell, and Kent Frazier. The above |

mentioned students competed in
Louisiana, Virginia, and Florida
respectively.

Thirty - two Scholarships are
awarded annually in the eight dis-
tricts of six or seven states of the
U.S.A. Each district has a Commit-
tee of Selection, which chooses two
students from the state’s applicants
to go before the District Committee,

| which will award Scholarships to

four of the 12 or 14 boys in the dis-
trict race.

Dr. Flournoy, a Rhodes scholar
himself, mentioned the fact that the
committees, which are composed of
four Rhodes scholars and another
prominent man, consider a student’s
academic record, his capacity for
leadership or service, his participa-
tion in outdoor sports, not necessar-
ily intercollegiate athletics, and
above all, the student’s character.
Also mentioned was the fact that
financial need was not a special claim
for a scholarship.

Each applicant is reviewed by
the respective committees in oral
interviews in which the student is
quizzed with questions ranging
from his personal views on poli-
tics, foreign affairs and religion on
down to his academic life, all of
which are designed to give the
committee an insight into the stu-
dent’s character and his knowledge
of what his major will be.

 

Simpson, a senior and Cadet Col-
onel of the W&L ROTC Battle,
Group, said that the state interview |
in Tampa, Florida, lasted for about |
thirty minutes and that the district |
competition consisted of two inter-
views, an informal after-dinner con-
versation in the Capital City Club!
in Atlanta and another 45 minute |
question-and-answer period at Em-
ory Univ. He had the following to
say about the entire contest: “Need-
less to say, competition in the dis-
trict was much greater than in =
state. I also felt that the boys in the
district competition were more ma-
ture than those on the state level,
ranging from the well-rounded in-|
dividual to the highly intellectual
person.” Simpson also mentioned |
that such schools as _ Davidson,
Sewanee, Princeton, VMI, and West

 

 

 

Point were represented.

The Rhodes Scholarships, which
carry an annual stipend of $2100,
enable a student to take a degree in
two years with the possible grant
of a third year of study. To be eli-
gible for the Scholarships, a per-
son must be a male citizen of the
United States with five years’ resi-
dence and unmarried, between the
ages of 18 and 24 before October Ist
in the year he applies, and have a
Junior standing in some recognized,
degree-granting college or Univer-
sity in the United States. A Rhode
scholar may read for a B.A. degree
in subjects ranging from empirical
sciences to humanities to languages.
If he is qualified, the student may
read for an Advanced Degree such
as the B.Phil., B.Sc., B.Litt. B.C.L.,
or D.Phil.

 

At Historical Society Convention

By BILL SMITH, JR. |

New York’s Statler Hilton Hotel |
was the site of the annual meeting |
of the American Historical Associa- |
tion last month as some of the coun-
try’s foremost historians convened |
for a three day session, on the twen- |
ty-eighth, twenty-ninth, and thirti-
eth of December. This is an associa-
tion recognized as containing the
outstanding men in their field, in
the United States.

Attending on behalf of Washington |
and Lee were several professors!
from the History Department: Dr.
William A. Jenks, Dr. Ollinger Cren- |
shaw, Dr. Thomas P. Hughes, Dr. |
Charles W. Turner, and Dr. Leon F. |
Sensabaugh.

Among the prominent men there, |
in addition to the Washington and
Lee men, were Mrs. Francis Perkins,
former Secretary of Labor under |
Roosevelt's administration; Mc- |
George Bundy, present Dean of |
Harvard, and newly appointed to
Mr. Kennedy’s administration; |
Jaques Barzun, Dean of the gradu-
ate school at Columbia; and Lewis
Mumford, an internationally known
author, architect, and sociologist.

At the same hotel, and in con-|

junction with each other were other
historical society meetings, among
them the Agricultural Historical So-
ciety, the Railroad Historical Society,
and the Catholic Historical Society.

Members of the association broke
up into their respective fields and
heard papers and discussions given

| purposed to bring up to date the
| thought in that particular field. The

society members were privileged to/
, hear
| and Dr. Hughes.

papers from both Dr. Jenks

Dr, Jenks paper was entitled “The
Impact of Pan-Germanism on Cen-
tral Europe.” The thesis of his ideas
was that Pan-Germanism was weak
in Austria in 1914, and that most of
the German-Austrians favored the

| Hapsburg monarchy rather than a

union of the Germanies.

“Early Years of Electrical Indus-
try: A Study of the Interelation of
Politics and Economics” was the top-
ic of Dr. Hughes’ paper. He brought

forth the thought that in the 1880’s |

Great Britain was the leading indus-
trial nation of the world, but shortly
after this time, she fell behind the
United States in this important sect-
or of the economy. It appears that
this decline stemmed not so much

(Continued on page 4)

 

 

Inspection Proposal Fails
To Pass Fraternities

By RICHARD CRUSE

The LF.C. positive and negative
proposals regarding stricter regula-
tions during Hell Week were crushed
last night at the LF.C. meeting in the
Student Union. These proposals that
would have substituted Help for Hell
in Hell Week were defeated by a vote
of eight to six.

At the beginning of this year, two
ILF.C. committees were set up to
study problems related to Hell Week.
One of these committees was to
study the negative aspect of Hell
Week and the other was to offer sug-
gestions as to positive ways that
fraternity pledges could occupy
themselves during Hell Week.

After the reports were presented at
last night’s meeting, the motion was
made and seconded that the reports
be accepted by the ILF.C.; further,
that they be mimeographed and cop-
ies distributed to fraternities and
other interested parties; and finally
that a committee of the LF.C. be set
up to assure that the suggestions of
these committees be enforced. The
apparent reason for the failure of the
proposals to pass was the inclusion
of the regulatory committee with the
knowledge that this committee would
function during Hell Week.

Dave Lefkowitz, President of the
LF.C., said, “I hope that fraternities
realize that according to present and
long standing regulations certain
pledging activities are strictly for-
bidden during Hell Week.

According to present rules:

A. No fraternities should vio-
late the principles of good

taste.

B. No initiation or pledge
training should constitute
any physical or emotional
hazard to the individual
pledge.

The judiciary committee will deal
severely with any houses that break
these rules during the February Hell
Week. This committee wishes it
made known that the failure of the
above motion will necessitate a
strengthening of its power. It will
be ready to deal with any infraction
of the standing rules during Hell
Week.

The text of the two rejected re-
ports appears below.

Negative Committee Report

Under the present fraternity sys-
tem at Washington and Lee, the fra-
ternities each year plan a concentrat-
ed program of activities for their
pledges during the first week of the
second semester. It is our belief that
such a week of activities should con-
tinue to exist.

During this week, several valuable
ends are served. First, pledges, be-
ing engaged in a common field of
strenuous activity, develop a sense of
unity among themselves. Second,
they develop a stronger attachment
to the fraternity in laboring for it.

| Third, by obeying orders from up-

Facuity M embers Deliver Papers

perclassmen, they are reminded of
their junior position in the fraternity,
and develop respect for the author-
ity of the fraternity as a whole.

We maintain, however, that no
pledge can increase in his respect of
any individual or group of individ-
uals which forces him to perform
deeds that violate his basic sense of
human dignity and decency.

Moreover, we believe that no good
ends are served by submitting the
pledge to physical pain or prolonged
discomfort. By the same _ token,
schemes to cause mental or emotion-
al anguish are also undesirable.

Instead, we hold that the highest
purpose of this Help Week can be
fulfilled by occupying the pledges

| with constructive projects and ac-
| tivities that will test their capacity

for resourcefulness and teamwork,
without debasing them by the prac-
tices listed previously.

Included in this Negative Commit-
tee report was the plan for an LF.C.
regulatory committee which was to
go from house to house to inspect
prevailing conditions. This was the
part of the proposal which Lefkowitz
feels was most important in the mea-
sure’s defeat.

Report of Positive Committee
Program:

I. The Committee would advocate
such practices as calisthenics, inter-
pledge class athletic competition, re-

| lay races, scavenger hunts, and good,

(Continued on page 4)
Page 2

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

Che KRing-tum Phi

Tuesday Edition |

Member of Virginia Intercollegiate Press Association

 

Centennial Purpose

The Civil War service held in Lee Chapel Sunday to
kickoff the Civil War Centennial at Washington and Lee was
quite impressive. Dr. Bean had evidently done an excellent
job of planning for a program which included The Rt. Rev.
Lloyd R. Craighill, retired bishop of the Episcopal Diocces of
Anking, China, Virgil Carrington Jones, the presiding member
of the National Civil War Centennial Commission, present
congressman and past governor of Virginia William M. Tuck,
who is vice chairman of the same commission, Dr. Francis P.
Gaines, our own chancellor and Mrs. Robert Bacham, president-

general of the UDC.

The audience included a number of UDC representatives
from around the Richmond-Lynchburg-Roanoke axis, a quite
impressive group of bewhiskered men clad in “The Grey” along
with a number of interested onlookers from the campus and
the town. It was unfortunate that more of the faculty and the
student body were unable to be present at the ceremony which
honored one of our greatest and most esteemed presidents.

A note at the bottom of the program stated; ‘‘A similar
program is scheduled for 2:00 p.m. today at the tomb of Gen-
eral Ulysses S. Grant in New York City. These simultaneous
ceremonies mark the official opening of the five-year Civil War
Centennial as declared earlier today in a proclamation by Presi-
dent Dwight D. Eisenhower.”’ So we see that the Centennial
Celebration is a national affair and has certainly received na-
tional recognition.

The centennial fever is running high throughout the
country; so high in fact, that this sentence found its way into
an announcement in Manteo, North Carolina. The announce-
ment comes from Outer Banks. The statement reads as follows:
“The Battle of Roanoke Island was the major victory for
the Union forces during the Civil War.” Read ye tourists and

weep,
*

One of the avowed purposes of the Centennial is to pro-
mote unity. It is rather ironic that its opening day should come
during a time when the South is being scalped in Congress
and is torn and seathing internally due to the segregation con-
flict which is being rammed down her throat by organizations
which were organized and which, until now, have seen fit to
operate in the northern sections of our country.

The rest of the nation is shaking the finger of admonition
at a section which is all but forgotten on the national political
level save for her stubborn resistance to the civil rights legisla-
tion which both of the major political parties seem determined
to force upon her. The South has become the whipping boy of
the national courts, the national legislature and national pub-
lic opinion because of the “‘example which she offers to the rest
of the free world and the undeveloped countries for whose sup-
port the U.S. is waging the cold war.”

At present, sectional feeling in the South and especially in
the Lower South is growing. The South is on the defensive, and
the agressive forces are in persuit. Soon, she will have nowhere
else to go. She feels that she must stand, and yet knows that she
cannot.

Whether or not this great centennial celebration will be
able to promote unity under these circumstances is a moot ques-
tion. It does not seem likely that the commemoration of an
unsuccessful war which was fought over some of the same
questions which plague the internal unity of the nation today
will do a great deal to smooth over the wounds inflicted upon
the pride and prejudice of the South since 1954.

*

“But think of the tourist trade!”

Revision Needed

We would like to join with the Friday Edition in their
plea for a revised grading system. The present system simply
does not give an accurate indication of student effort and
achievement, and while grades are not paramount, they cer-
tainly have a great deal to do with the future scholastic fortunes
of the student as far as applications for graduate school are con-
cerned,

A revised system similar to that which was outlined by Mr.
Goodwin in Friday’s paper would surely be a marked improve-
ment.

COMING EVENTS
continues for the third day for
funds.

8:00 p.m.—Swimming. W. and L. vs.

6:30 p.m.—W. and L. freshmen vs. Norfolk Division, William and
Bridgewater freshmen. Basketball. Mary. ie Main @
8:00 p.m.—Basketball. W. and L. vs.| 8:15 pm.—The Rockbridge Concert
lana candle ” ™ Theater Series presents CALE-
. DONIA, the singers and dancers
Thursday, Jan. 12

Wednesday, Jan. 11

9:00 a.m.—University Charity Chest
Drive continues.

 

of Scotland. Old Lexington High
9:00 am.—University Chest Drive! School.

 

 

 

Rep. Tuck addresses Centennial Ceremony audience.

 

Webster Unabridged

YOP Seminar
Finds Freud In
Mother Goose

By ED WEBSTER

“Needless to say,” Geoffrey was
saying, “Little Jack Horner is the
classic example of human vanity
and complacency.”

“On the contrary,” Cyril replied,
dissolving a candy cigarette between
his molars, “the poem has deeper
implications. Quite Freudian, almost.
The act of puncturing the pie-crust,
for example...”

“Now really, gentlemen,” inter-
jected Cassandra, “don’t you see that
this poem is merely a subtle protest
against the irresponsibility of the
aristocracy? Horner represents a
landed lord, whose vision is narrowed
because he is in a corner, and whose
insatiable appetite is fed by the fruits
of other men’s labors.”

 

This was the weekly seminar
of the YOP (Young Offspring of
Professors), held in the back room
of High’s Ice Cream Store. Geoffrey
sent out for another double vanilla
cone, and resumed his argument.

“These qualities of vanity and
smugness are seen in many other
(Continued on page 4)

 

Co-ed Aspects Of Hollins-W &L,
Local Date Problems Discussed

By HARVEY ALLEN

Since we got such overwhelming
reaction to our earlier efforts to ex-
pose the Hollins Gestapo, perhaps
the time is ripe once again to cast
another casual glance in the direction
of the Star City, formerly named
Big Lick, Virginia.

We might mention in passing that
our story on the gestapo at Hollins
received such notice that it was re-
printed in complete form in a follow-
ing edition of the Hollins Columns.
The enterprising editor of said jour-
nal even took the opportunity ot
comment editorially on the bit, but
generally missed the point of the
column.

Her main comment worthy of
note around her was something
about people in glass houses not
throwing stones. Can it be that she
suspects that we have some aspect
of our Honor System that needs

revision or review? Goodness.

Checking over a recent issue of
the Hollins Columns we noticed a
story written from an interview with
one of the chief leaf-rakers at
aforementioned riding academy for
young ladies.

The headline mentioned that the
man remembered when Hollins was
co-ed. That’s fine. The only problem
that followed was that the only thing
that touched on the headline was the
comment, “He even remembered
when Hollins was coeducational.”

My reason for bringing this
whole thing up is that at some time
in. our past, we came within one
vote on the Board of Trustees of
becoming co-ed ourselves.

Maybe the S.LP.A. meetings that
year were sufficiently outstanding to
encourage the students here to ad-
vocate a continuation of female

 

faces and figures on the hill. Maybe

 

Raven Rants

 

Exams, Conversation, Art Show
Cause Post-Holiday Excitement

Turkey stuffings, Christmas gifts,
and general holiday cheer appear to
have injected a new lease on W&L
student life. Whatever the stimu-
lant might have consisted of, the
injection given was widespread
enough that we feel it permeating
the campus.

We feared, upon leaving the school
in December, that we would return
only to encounter the same worn
topics of discussion emitting from the
same sad, apathetic souls. Much to
our surprise a new vitalism, an op-
eration consisting mainly in getting
off one’s bottom, has made an en-
trance. Several pressing subjects
were found here to feed this newly
born disposition.

First, there are the impeding
finals. Finals mean many things to
different people—the range usual-
ly running from “A” students to
“D” students. However, notwith-
standing the grade point ratio
everyone concerned finds himself
confronted with a challenge: finals
can mean keeping that “A,” or
final can mean getting out of the
“D”rut; and in both cases finals
present an anticipated reward, a
sense of accomplishment, if one
succeeds,

In connection with this topic of
term grades, we salute the renewed
proposal to revise the grading sys-
tem at W&L. Any change in this
quarter, we feel, would (from pure
incompleteness of the present sys-
tem) necessarily make the system
more meaningful; and if the instiga-
tion of a new system benefits only
a few, we maintain that the advant-
ages received will be well used in

competing with other educational
institutions after the student has
graduated. This alone is reason
enough for revision.

Secondly, the art show currently
displayed in duPont gallery is worth
a measure of excitement. We judge
this showing the finest we have wit-
nessed at W&L. Anyone not having
seen the forty piece show presented
by one man, Pierre Daura, is recom-
mended to do so for a gratifying
experience. The Fine Arts depart-
ment has well earned an expression
of our gratitude for bringing this
stimulating representative’s works
to our campus.

Finally, as we predicted earlier
this semester, the local movie
houses greeted our return to Lex-
ington with more than average
films. Peter Seller’s “I’m All Right
Jack” is definitely humor at col-
lege level. The State’s presentation
of the film version of the histori-
cal Broadway play, “Sunrise at
Campabello,” has received nothing
but praise from those students who
have seen it.

All in all, the excitement generated
in our surroundings since our re-
turn a week ago gives proof that
the traditional concept of student
life being enticing, inspiring, and
moving has not been lost at Wash-
ington and Lee. During the weeks
immediately preceding the Christmas
holiday we held our doubts. All
doubts dispelled. Our reservation,
however, we must keep: the students
must not allow a redrift into the
paths easily coasted upon with in-
difference and a spirit of anti-
intellectualism.

 

 

LAST NIGHT I LEFT MY
FOOTBALL IN THE BACK YARD,
AND THIS MORNING ITS IN

|THE FRONT YARD...

 

a

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ee

Tn tow.

     

THE "“AD PUNTER.”
-STRIKES AGAIN!

 
 

 

they just wanted to see some more
skirts, for a change.

If what they say about actions of a
former Board of Trustees is true, we
wonder what happened and who cast
the deciding vote, against more skirts
on campus.

By the way, for the information
lof all those members of this stu-
dent body that have noticed the
large round stones scattered around
the Hollins quad and wondered
why they were there, we can now
announce that the mystery shroud-
ing their origin has at last been
solved.

Seems that they are remenants of
a nearby grist mill. That simple state-
ment shot down all our theories that
they were either specially hewn
stones transported at great expense
to arouse interest and curiosity or
were there serving as weights to
hold the grass, leaves and earth in
place.

Meanwhile, from another neigh-
boring riding academy comes the tip
to those dating there that the word
is to date dorm presidents. Why?
Because it has been observed by
impartial Minks that anyone coming
in late from a date must turn them-
selves in...that is everyone but
dorm presidents. When one W&L
gentleman asked his date about be-

(Continued on page 4)

 

Saturday Evening Post
Calls Cheating a Game
For Faculty and Pupils

By STEVE GALEF

“American Disgrace:
CHEATING”

This is the title of an article in
the recent issue of the Saturday
Evening Post. The author, Jerome
Ellison, tells how cheating has be-
come a game for both students and
faculty members alike.

Reading the article, one can learn
a lot about the ‘game.’ In one ex-
ample Ellison tells about an experi-
ment a teacher set up in a Midwest-
ern university in order to determine
the extent of cheating in his classes.
He gave the class an assignment and
told them there would be a test on
it during the next class period.
When the period came, he gave out
the test, casually announcing that
the answers were on his desk. Dur-
ing the period he was called from
the room.

COLLEGE

In a move that the students
would have considered ‘not play-
ing according to the rules,’ he
had enrolled two graduate students
in the class to report what hap-
pened after he left the room. As the
article reports, the findings ex-
ceeded his original expectations.
As soon as he left the room there
was a mad stampede for the desk.
All but two of the most brilliant
students copied the answers and
later handed them in as their own
effort. There was, no doubt, great
effort involved in getting the an-
swers copied and getting back to
their seats before the professor
came back to the room.

The professor informs us that
Midwestern institutions are not the
only ones where cheating takes place.

 

Yet another interesting example}
(Continued on page 4)

War Centennial
Has New Look

Friday Edition, Ring-tum Phi
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, Va.

Dear Bob,

I don’t know if you attended the
Civil War Centennial Ceremonies
today in Lee Chapel, but they would
have made you proud of Washington
and Lee. A courageous group of
W&L men proved that everyone in
this university is not in the nefarious
grip of student apathy and uninvolv-
edness.

We walked down to Lee Chapel
expecting to hear a moderate and in-
spiring speech from Dr. Gaines. We
must admit also we were expecting
to hear a few politicians cast straws
into the wind, trying to judge how
the public wants their oratory this
year. We expected to be joined by a
few other students in more or less
passive participation in this opening
event of the Centennial.

Much to our surprise we espied
a picket line outside the chapel
as we came up the hill from the
parking lot. They were carrying
signs proclaiming things like “No
intersectional warmongering,” or
“Now is the time for pacifism,” or
“The South must join the United
States.” We had no idea what most
of the signs meant but when we
asked a couple of picketers who
they were we found they attended
a number of different schools, all
with a considerably more illus-
trious reputation than W&L.

Further enquery revealed that the
gentlemen and ladies (some from
Randolph-Macon Woman's College)
were members of the National Stu-
dent Association, an enlightened
group which is apparently devoted
to this sort of thing. They have chap-
ters at lots of Eastern and Midwest-
ern colleges, have all sorts of meet-
ings and conferences, and pass lots of
resolutions. For exercise they join
picket lines and sit-ins. I must admit
that I was a little disappointed that
there were no W&L men in the line.
I notice a couple of the more mili-
tant girls were there from Smith.

We swallowed our pride and
walked into the Chapel to hear the
speeches. Much to our surprise,
the air inside was more like Mock
Convention than the solemn and
serious event it was advertised to
be. We began to get uneasy and
thought about retreating. We turn-
ed to go back out of the chapel
when we suddenly found ourselves
under attack from the rear by the
very picketers we had passed out-
side. We were ambushed.

As our eyes began to adjust to the
scene of confusion in the dimly-lit
chapel we saw that another group
had Dr. Gaines and Rep. Tuck cap-
tive and were forcing them to wear
an NSA membership badge and give
the pledge of allegiance of the
NSA. Lest you make a mistake, the
NSA pledge of allegience is not
like the one we all learned in grade
school and that they still say
every Tuesday at Rotary. In fact, the
pledge doesn’t even mention the
United States except a vague ack-
nowledgment of the old U.S. of A.
as our primary place of residence.
It says a great deal about mankind
and rights and implies that anyone
believing all that is more or less
committed to go out and save the
world.

A bunch of the rioters jumped us
and made us say the oath. We did so
without hesitating as several of the
larger rioters were threatening to
throw us into the same fire in which
they were burning effigies of Harry
Byrd and Barry Goldwater. One of
the northerners wanted to burn an
effigy of William F. Buckley, Jr., but
he didn’t get much response from
the W&L men, most of whom were
mumbling, “Who's he?”

Several of the group’s leaders
added comments to the few re-
marks Dr. Gaines had been allowed
to make. Needless to say, his re-
marks were conciliatory in tone
and implied that he thought the
South should join the United
States. He was loudly cheered.
Rep. Tuck had introduced Dr.
Gaines and read an entirely too
statesmanlike telegram sent by his
commission to a descendent of the
notorious U. S. Grant.

Then one of the agents provaca-
teurs shouted, “Don’t just stand
there, let’s go do something about
all this!” And the whole crowd
marched out to the tune of “The
Bittle Hymn of the Republic” to start
a sit-in at the College Inn. They
were carrying Rep. Tuck and Dr.
Gaines on their shoulders last time
we saw them.

We were practically the only people
left in the chapel when the lady who
is president of the United Daughters
of the Confederacy reverently placed
a wreath at the recumbent statue of
General Lee.

Best Always,
BILL ROBERTS

 

'

 
 

 

 

THE RING-TUM PHI

Page 3

 

W&L Cagers Defeat Tigers; Lose To Chattanooga

Fauber Stars
For Generals

The highly rated Moccasins of
Chattanooga University were out-
played by the Washington and Lee

Generals, until in the closing seconds #™am

a long jump shot gave them a 70-69
victory.

Although lacking the services of
two first stringers, John Kirk and
Ken Kowalski, the Generals treated
the partisan Doremus Gym audience
to the most thrilling contest of the
year. Brett Thackston played an out-
standing game for the W&L five
especially in the closing minutes
when he stole the ball twice in suc-
cession and contributed several key
baskets.

Washington and Lee jumped to
an early lead and led throughout
the first half. Roger Fauber and
John McDowell were the offensive
standouts for the Generals while
Thackston did a fine job on de-
fense. With the home five on top at
the half it seemed as if the deadly
Moccasins had been overrated.

Unfortunately for the Generals,
Chattanooga was a different ball
club in the second half. The visitors
erased the W&L lead about midway
through the half and from then on,
the Generals had all they could do
to hang on.

Although the victory was not de-

 

Dave Grogan goes up for two in the Chattanooga game. The Generals lost

to the highly-rated Tennessee team, 70-69.

Photo by Young

 

cided until the last five seconds, *
the Generals really lost the game
at the foul line. The Moccasins
who have an exceptionally high
four shot percentage this year
scored almost half of their points

from the charity line.

The Washington and Lee Generals
returned to winning ways Monday
night in Doremus Gym with a 79-67
victory over the Hampden-Sydney
Tigers. Although the Generals made
a poorer showing than Saturday
night against Chattanooga, the Tig-
ers did not present the same calibre
of opposition posed by the Mocca-
sins.

The visitors suffered their tenth
loss of the campaign as against two
wins while W&L boosted its rec-
ord to 3-7. Roger Fauber was high
man for the Generals with 15
points while Hampden-Sydney’s
Hardin was high man for the night
with 16.

The home five got off to a bad start
and it seemed that the absence of
Kirk and Kowalski had left the team
without a great deal of punch. To
the five minute mark, the Generals
had succeeded in scoring only one
basket, but Coach McHenry was able |
to put some life in his players after
a brief time out.

The efforts of Steve Rutledge,
Brett Thackston and Dave Grogan
pushed the Generals out in front
22-16 with nine minutes left in
the first half. Rutledge, who chalk-
ed up 8 points in the first half,
along with center John McDowell
controlled the board for W&L.

 

Baby Generals Beat Massanutten, 88-56

On Saturday, Jan. 7, the freshman
basketball team scored an impressive
88-56 victory over Massanutten Mil-
itary Academy at Massanutten.

With the sharp shooting of stand-
outs Fred Ridolphi and Howard
Martin with 25 and 20 points re-
spectively, the Baby Generals’ fourth
victory was never in doubt as Coach
Joe Lyles was able to empty his
bench.

Going along with the scoring
punch was an excellent floor game
played by Stuart Yoffe and Charlie

 

In the closing minutes of the half,
the Tigers fell behind by eleven
points. Leading 40-29 at the inter-
mission, the Generals seemed to
be in complete control.

Fearing a repeat of Saturday’s sec-
ond half collapse, the home five op-
ened up a 19 point lead before the
midway point in the second half.
Paced by the sharp-shooting of
Fauber and Bill Ide the Generals
built up an almost insurmountable
lead. Coach McHenry substituted

| freely to give some of his reserves

experience while Hampden-Sydney
speeded up the pace in a vain at-
tempt to overtake the Generals. Af-
ter the ten minute mark of the sec-
ond half, rough play and overthrown
passes marred the play of both teams,
but W&L held on to win comfortably
79-67."

Wednesday night in the Doremus

(Continued on page 4)

 

Expert Ski

Apres-Ski

Bete Be Me Ba dhe de Ba tha dia tte Bade dhe dhe Bade te te Be Ba dte the Ba tte Bee Be te he te Bate ete the tte Be Be Be Ba Be tte de tte tte dle te Be de Be
errr errr rrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrrorrrrrrrrrrrrrvree

 

LER EL EDEL LOLA RLSM MEET LH Hees

Specializing in
STEM TURNS
SITZ MARKS

Hedovrzheels Quik Stops

and

See or Call
MR. BRENT ARTHUR
SAE HO 3-6866

Instruction

Beverages

He eee terete te oho cde ode sto nde odo fe fe ate eke oho nforfe so nfe feof atone short she oo rfe sheaf ole so nfo she she she sone she fo nfoste: Ye

fe oobobebeote te teste sesso tees obsteteteosbestestesteoeoteteoe oe oeooobetoobobetetedeoeobetetesteoe seo

 

Savage on the small Massanutten
court.

Having won four of its seven
games, the team is continuing to
show its potential. The starting five,
consisting of center Howard Martin,
forwards Dave Britt and Yoffe, and
guards Gordon Taylor and Ridolphi,
is being hard pressed by a strong
bench, particularily forwards Steve
Wash and Fred Shaeffer and guard
Charlie Savage.

Coach Lyles remarking on Satur-
day’s victory said: “I was very
pleased at the boys for coming back
so fast after Christmas vacation,
particularly since they had only one
hour practice a day.”

The next game on the schedule
for the frosh is against Bridgewater,
Wednesday in Doremus Gym, fol-
lowed by a game on Thursday at
Augusta Military Academy.

 

 

Sports Editorial

NCAA Questioned

For the second straight year, the University of North Caro-
lina has been called up before the Council of the National Col-
legiate Athletic Association to answer the charges leveled at it
by the Council. If the NCAA is not effective in this area of
work, it certainly is persistent.

In carrying out its mission of keeping college athletics scrub-
bed clean, the Council stalks its quarry with a singlessness of
purpose that would be a delight to any Internal Revenue agent.

It makes no distinction between the big and the small and
their related offenses, nor between the winners and the losers.
The same year that the NCAA put Oklahoma on probation for
their violation of recruiting codes, it also put Montana State in
the same position. It is doubtful whether Montana State ever
considered itself in the same class as the Sooners as far as
bowl and post season NCAA tournament and meet appearances
are concerned, but apparently the NCAA did.

The Council will not take no for an answer and a school
which has been hauled before it many times is still in danger
of its censorship until the very last report of hanky-panky has
been investigated. Unlike the Internal Revenue Service, how-
ever, the Council does not recognize a statute of limitations.

Carolina has felt the heavy arm of the association three
times and the Council officials has heard officials, athletic and
academic. But there has never been enough evidence to con-
vict. Yet exoneration does not come lightly. The NCAA has
as its motto, “If at first you don’t succeed .. .’

All this seems to say that while many times the NCAA
does investigate and discover cases of mis-use of recruiting tech-
niques, there are also many times when it conducts an investiga-
tion only for the sake of publicity. This should not be the pur-
pose of an association such as the NCAA, whose principal pur-
pose is to foster the growth of collegiate athletics and to pro-
vide a place to which colleges engaged in athletics can look for
help, instead of censorship. The Association merely defeats its
purpose if it becomes a watchdog.

While it is an acknowledged fact that the abuses in re-
cruiting athletes and keeping an athletic program alive in uni-
versities are great, it should be recognized, too, that under the
present system of subsidized athletics, abuse will be present no
matter how much bush-beating the Assocation does. It is
practically impossible in present day collegiate athletics to have
a winning team, a strong team, and not be guilty of some in-
fraction of the rules which the NCAA has set down.

If a realistic attitude such as this were adopted by the
NCAA, then they would be able to attend to all fields of col:

legate athletics and not be turned into a watchdog organization.

 

 

BROWN’S
CLEANING
WORKS
We call for

and deliver
HO 3-2013 14 Randolph St.

 

 

S. G.

| frtssescecssssseeseeeees

: slit IDEAL £
Radio Hospital |? sarser sop
’ ? QUICK SERVICE §

Whe obo ehe rhe oho oho fe ote oboe oe oe oe ee oe fee fe fee

Radio, TV, Phonograph

 

The Coaches Corner

Coach Assesses
Team Progress

We won last night—and it sure
beats losing—on our best offensive
performance of the year. Hampden-
Sydney, like us, is a very young
team. They are also the smallest
team we have faced this year. In
spite of this they have been averag-
ing around 80 points a game with
their run and shoot fast-break of-
fense. We were pleased to beat
them by the 79-67 score.

The boys feel that defense can win
us a lot of games—if we can cut
down on a lot of unnecessary fouls
and continue our aggressive forcing
defense, we can surprise quite a few
of our coming opponents.

In our last two losses to Frank-
lin and Marshall and Chattanooga,
we scored more field goals than they,
but F&M outscored us on the foul
line 22-4, and Chatanooga beat us
there 34-19. In spite of our one point
loss to Chattanooga, I thought it was
our best team effort of the season.

Brett Thackston has _ continued
his fine scoring and Bip Fauber’s
enthusiasm is a spur to the rest of
the team. However, the most im-
proved player in recent games has
been junior Steve Rutledge. His re-
bounding and scoring have both in-
creased, and I feel confident he will
continue to get better with each
game.

 

Tomorrow we face the Bridgewat-
er team that beat us in our opener,
57-50. Again Jim Reedy, who is
averaging 27 points a game, will
be the man to stop. They continue to
use a 2-2-1 zone press and then back
into a 1-3-1 zone.

Coach McHenry

 

he the ae dhe the he he he Be Be dle Be Be le Be Be Bae
Se oGe oe oho oe fe fe fe oe oe afe of oe fe fe ole oe fe ole of

 

THE NEW

White Top

Restaurant
*

A personal invitation
to the
Students
Try our delicious foods
Route 60 East

he he he he Me he he Ae Be Be Be Be Be Bc Bn Be Be Be Be Bn Be Be She Be a Be Be a se Be Be Ba a Be
eee ee eS Se ee

he Mc Me Be Be Be Be Be Bo Bo Be Be Bo Be Be Me Mn Bin Bie Be Be se Be Be ie te, Bie ia de he ee
rrrrrrrtrtrereerererpT TTT TTTs'vrevwvevvve

he the he Me ale ale ale ale alle oe he he Be Be Be Be Be Be Be Bo Bode
ee a ae Me RE a EY Ee a ee ET a EE ee

 

 

 

 

Sales and Service

*
HO 3-3531

 

 

 

 

 

Open a convenient student Checking account
TODAY

at

Rockbridge National Bank

Member Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation

SUNDAY

Route 60 Buena Vista

Ted’s Steak House
Finest Foods
Choice Meats
Ww

DINNERS

 

 

 

 

 

fe Re Re he ode rhe abe oe oe ote eden fe fe ote

FrESeEEeeeeenereeees

 

Shirt Service as You Like it

Quality Cleaning and Pressing

UNIVERSITY CLEANERS
HO 3-3622

*
“Your Campus Neighbors”

 

RR Re Bete hehe hehe he eo

TT

Be Be ie Be Be ie Bie Bo Be Bo Bn Bo Bin lin din lin lin Badin dada de
SPSS SS Se Se ST SSeS STS SSeS See

 

 

 

 

STUDENTS ACCOUNTS INVITED HERE
Member F. D. I. C.

 

 

 

—_
Soe OOOO OOOO OOOO OOOO CO OOOOOOOOOOO OOOO EOE EO OOOO OOOO OEEO OREO OOOO OEE OEOO OOOO OES OOOO OOO OE OOOO OOOO OO OOOO OOO OOOOOOOOO OOO COOO COOH EOEO OOOO OOO OOOOOOOOOS

TRADITIONAL WINTER

Clearance Sale

TOGGLE COATS
SPORTCOATS
SLACKS
SHIRTS
SHOES
SUITS
ETC.

The College

So Shop

Begins Wednesday, January 11th

SPORTSHIRTS
SWEATERS
SOCKS
BELTS
HATS
TIES
ETC.
 

Page 4

THE RING-

TUM PHI

 

IFC Resolution

Turned Down
(Continued from page 1)

constructive, physical labor such as
in community projects or house im-
provements. While the above activi-
ties suggest only a few of the possi-
ble undertakings, they tend to il-
lustrate the type of proceedings after
which it is hoped fraternities will
pattern their Help Week activities
acting with discretion between the
boundaries established by the nega-
tive committee and those of good
taste such as are not physically or
mentally harmful or degrading to
one’s personal dignity.

II. Realizing the impossibility of
covering the latitude of desirable
undertakings, the committee would
advocate utilization of pledge class
energies and resources to better
serve the community, university, or
fraternity. It endorses the use of
pledge classes in traditional collec-
tions of charity contributions and
various other drives and urges their
use to serve the community through
any necessary social service work
that need be accomplished upon
community request.

III. In this respect, the committee
proposes that the IFC sponsor a re-
volving trophy to act as a spur to-
ward constructive uses of Help
Week. This trophy, based on service
to the community, university, or fra-
ternity, would be awarded by an
impartial IFC committee to that
pledge class adjudged to have gained
the highest degree of success in its
undertaking. Dean Farrar would act

 

as a liaison between the university

College Cheating Discussed
Intricate Methods Found

(Continued from page 2)
comes from one of these schools. In
this case, a graduating senior was
required to hand in an original re-
search paper. He found, however,
that a writer in a professional jour-
nal had already done the job for
him. He copied the article and
handed it in with his name in the
place of the original author’s. How-~
ever, the student ran into trouble,
since his professor had read the

 

Hughes Speaks

(Continued from page 1)

from her style of education or from
lack of technology, but rather came
from the government controls on in-
dustry and from the general inertia
of the population.

 

and the community on one hand and
the fraternities on the other.
Through him would be made known
those worthwhile activities which
fraternities could undertake in pur-
suit of the trophy.

IV. The committee reaffirms the
policies of the negative committee,
endorses the establishment of an
IFC regulatory body to minimize in-
fractions of Help Week regulations
(if such a body were deemed neces-
sary), and urges that fraternities di-
rect their pledge classes to construc-
tive and beneficial ends during Help
Week.

 

Centennial Speech Lauds Lee;
‘Power Of Example’ Praised

(Continued from page 1)

too costly sacrifice had been in vain.

It must be remembered that the
mood of true Southern leadership
was one of chaotic frustration. The
impossible had happened and at best
there was confused bewilderment.
Many of these leaders planned to
flee the country, going they knew not
where.

The dignity of General Lee, his
tireless energy in behalf of tomor-
row, and his faith in the future of
this reunited country, were the
greatest stabilizing elements in that
pathetic little chapter. His influence
was great when he led the armies of
the Confederacy, but his influence
was greater when he led the people
of the Confederacy into a new ver-
sion of hope. And his faith was not
misplaced. We soon were a reunited
country.

Just forty-eight years after that
war closed, Chief Justice Edward
D. White, himself a former Confed-
erate soldier, inaugurated as presi-
dent Woodrow Wilson, a son of a
Confederate soldier. The reunion had
become complete—and perhaps there
is no parallel in the human story.

It is a pleasant act of historical
justical to give praise for reciprocat-
ing acts of generosity on the part of
the North. With pride we remember
General Grant’s magnanimity at the
time of the surrender and we ap-
plaud Mr. Lincoln’s tolerace of de-
clared policy—unfortunately not ef-
fective for some time.

On this campus we record the
helpfulness of those who but recently
were enemies. The first man to come
to General Lee’s aid, as he tried to
rebuild education in the South, was
Cyrus McCormick of Chicago, Vir-
ginia born inventor who sympathized
with the North but responded to

 

 

VARSITY
BILLIARD
ACADEMY

Catering
To Students

Corner of
Washington and Jefferson

 

General Lee. Perhaps the most spec-
tacular story of hands across the
border is that of Thomas A. Scott,
then president of the Pennsylvania
Railroad, but formerly assistant sec-
retary of war in Mr. Lincoln’s cabin-
et; he gove $70,000 to this college just
because it was General Lee’s College.
Even Dr. Henry Ward Beacher, the
abolitionist minister of Plymouth
church in Brooklyn, sent General
Lee $1000 as help for his college.

In this centennial year, nobody
wants to open up again the divisive
issues. In the calming perspective of
long time, one fact seems to emerge,
atsonishing if not paradoxical. Both
sides were fighting for what they be-
lieved was freedom. The concept
differed widely but the sincerity of
conviction was one and the same. A
hundred years later, a light shines
upon our own path. Even a bitter
war sustained and enforced the
American tradition of freedom. It is
our heritage; in the purposes of God
may it be our destiny. Along with
other people we shall try to make
freedom triumph over tyranny. In
deep devotion to this cause of free-
dom we shall find our final and com-
plete joy of unity.

Be Bo Se Be Be Be Be lc Ba le Be a le Bs Ss Ba ts Ba Ba Ba Ban Be
=e Tee eee eee eer eee

White’s Music
Store

(Opposite State Theater)

+
Phonographs—Hi-Fi

 

 

Expert Repair Service
.y

5 W. Nelson St. Lexington, Va.
HO 3-3522

ae
TTrTrrrrrrro,.,wrrfrtrrrTtT TTT eee TT ST TTT
este she the ale he Re le Me Ba Be Be Be Ba Be Ba Be Be Ba Be MaMa he Be Be Be Be to Ba Bo Bee ste Ba ie
eee ee ee ee ee ee

 

 

ie he he Be Me Me he Be Se Be Be Bo Ba he Be Be ha the Ma Be Ba te
TT Ter rr ee eee eee ee ee ee

 

 

 

Green Valley Motel

One Mile North on
U. S. Highway No. 11

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA
HO 3-2195

 

 

 

 

 

The First National Bank

of Lexington
*
has special checking accounts

for students

 

 

same article. The professor informed
the student that he had discovered
the plagiarism and that he was fail-
ing him in the course. This, however,
is not the end of the story.

The student had a strong desire to
graduate and this one failure was
enough to keep him from doing so.
He decided that he would appeal the
failure to a faculty committee. When
his hearing took place, he arrived
with all sorts of character references.
He didn’t deny that he had cheated,
but he did ask that he be let off
since the failure in the course would
keep him from graduating. The fac-
ulty committee ruled in his favor.

The article describes many other
methods of cheating. One of the
most intricate and elaborate took
place at a school where the pro-
fessors wrote the questions on the
board to prevent leaks. One sys-
tem is described where a boy out-
side reads from the board with
the aid of field glasses and then
sends the answers to those in the
classroom by means of hand sig-
nals. The article mentions that
there “must, of course, be a feli-
citous arrangement of buildings
and classrooms to succeed.” May-
be architects should take this into
consideration when they are plan-
ning new buildings.

The article states that the blame
for this cheating lies on both the
students and the faculty. In fact, in
most cases it would have the blame
split equally among the two. It con-
cludes that the best way to prevent
these episodes is for the schools to,
provide some sort of inspired goal |
or lofty set of ideals for the students |
and faculty to defend.

In the midst of all our arguments
about the honor system, let us be
glad that we have one to argue
about.

 

Basketball

(Continued from page 3)

Gym the Generals will take on
Bridgewater College in the last game
until after exams. The W&L five
will be out to get Bridgewater, who
topped the Generals in the season’s
opener. Game time is 8:00.

 

 

LEXINGTON
CLEANERS

Phone HO 3-3813 108 S. Jefferson

 

 

Webster Unabridged

(Continued from page 2)

poems,” he said. “Little Miss Muf-
fett, sitting regally and enjoying a
brief glory, is a good example. Or,
if you will forgive an allusion to
German literature, ‘The Ugly Duck-
ling” strongly preaches the triumph
of humility over pride.”

“For that matter,” said Cyril, “I
would suggest that Freudian arche-

Allen Speaks
On Dating

(Continued from page 2)

ing late, she said, “No sweat.” She
was a dorm president. Interesting.
They too have an honor system.

With Fancy Dress around a
couple of corners, we have been
advised that once again riding
academies nearby are going all out
to surpass the record set last year
by most of them in scheduling
semester exams during Fancy
Dress weekend.

We have already heard that both
Hollins and Sweet Briar have com-
pleted planning and that "Macon is
trying to make the team. If Baldwin
does it too, we'll have a clean sweep.
Way to go!

We envision one of two things
happening, if this trend continues.
Either W&L men will start asking
only those young ladies who live
far away and have fathers who are
willing to send them up in “the
company plane,” or Fancy Dress will
become a time for some special ritual
prior to a longer Help Week.

Wonderful.

MYERS
HARDWARE
COMPANY

 

 

 

types are found very clearly in ‘Lit-
tle Red Riding-Hood.’ Indeed, some
authorities say it is an even better
psychological study than ‘The Three
Bears.’”

“Oh, but how can you tolerate
such sordidness?” cried Geoffrey.

“Sordidness indeed!” snorted Cas-
sandra. “You aristocrats make me
ill.”

“Now really, there’s no sense in
confusing these side-issues with the
central biological facts,” Cyril purred,
taking another candy cigarette from
his crumpled pack.

“But don’t you see that the grand
purpose of literature is to present
great truths in noble language?”
protested Geoffrey.

“Let us define our terms,” sug-
gested Cassandra.

“All right,” countered Geoffrey,
“take Jack and Jill, who show the
enduring quality of loyalty despite
adversity, and who...” Geoffrey
stopped, realizing that his example
was about to backfire.

It was too late. Cyril quickly ex-
claimed: “Aha! Voila! And just what
do you think they were doing on top
of that hill? Admiring the daisies?”

“And the mighty shall come tumb-
ling from the heights above,” mur-
mured Cassandra, trying to make the
phrase sound like a quotation.

 

Geoffrey was silent. He nervously
rubbed the table-top, while vanilla
ice cream trickled onto his tremb-
ling hand.

“Well,” said Cyril abruptly. “This
has indeed been a most enlightening
discussion. Especially, I hope, for
Geoffrey. I indeed hope we shall
meet again shortly.”

“Indeed,” said Geoffrey shortly.

The Ring-tum Phi

Tuesday Edition

The Ring-tum Phi is published Tues-
day and Friday ayring the college year.
It is printed by the Journalism Labor-
atory Press, Washington and Lee Uni-
versity. The mailing address is Box
899, Lexington, Va,

Entered ag second class matter Sep-
tember 20, 1946 at the Post Office, Lex-
ington Va., under the act of March

 

. 1878,

National Advertising Representative:
The National Advertisers Service, Inc.,
420 Madison Ave., New York, N.Y.

WOE, ss ccstse ee Rosewell Page, III
Business Manager.............. Huntley Biggs

Editorial Board

Managing Editor................... Bill Roberts
Photography Editor.................. Bill Young
Assistant Managing Editor.....................
Re eee Steve Galef
Bob Bridewell
BORE BOE ec citisern 3 Steve Guild
Associate Editors........Lanny Butler, Bill
Smith, Ronnie King
PORES Titles Harvey Allen

  

Advertising Manager.......... Jerome Dattel
Circulation Manager........ Peter Agelesto
OMe MANAZES...2..c1sscccscserssessss Don McFall

 

 

For those extra pieces

of
FURNITURE

for your room
see our stock
before buying

®
VARNER AND POLE

 

 

 

 

 

The Southern Inn

Cordially invites you to make this your headquarters for good food
Here you get the best food for the most reasonable prices

Our Specialties:

Steaks, Chicken, Country Ham, and the best sandwiches
in town

Meet your friends here

 

 

the the he she he ate he she she she she ale ate ae she he ele ale the BeBe slashe Becket ote eee eee ee BeBe Bede Be

 

EE SES STS

Phone

Meche the he Be ee Be Bo Bo Bete Ba Be Ba Me Ba Be Bla Ble Ba Ba Be Ble Bie Be ia Ble Be Be Ba Be BeBe
CE ee eee

tedtede ee he he et. 2. 2. 2.2%. 2.2

-

eee ee eee at Ft OF Ft Fs OE Oe

We Feature

SEALTEST

Dairy Products
“To get the best get Sealtest”

over twenty different products in addition to
delicious Sealtest ice cream

Block and Crushed Ice
Your favorite mixes—Ice Cold

*
Maple-Rock Distributors, Inc.

HO 3-2168

Be de Me Me de de Me he Be Me Be BeBe BeBe Mle Be Be Be BeBe BeBe Be Br dlr Ma Bo Be BoB 2.2.2,
eS ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee eT me ee me ee ee ge ge Ome me ge ge Mgr mye nge

he se the he te hee Be she Bo he Behe che he ec ot

 

a
%
|
|
%
%
+

Oe se Ee

eee eS Pe SST yy ye

 

 

 

an

 

 

 

ROCKBRIDGE LAUNDRY

Dry Cleaners

Shirts Transparently Wrapped
for Freshness
*
AGENTS:
Fraternities, Dorms and Co-op

d

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

(Author of “I Was a Teen-age Dwarf”, ‘‘The Many
Loves of Dobie Gillis’’, etc.)

 

THE ENGINEERS HAVE HAIRY EARS

Today in this age of technology when engineering graduates
are wooed and courted by all of America’s great industries, how
do you account for the fact that Rimbaud Sigafoos, who fin-
ished at the very top of his class at M.I.T., turned down hun-
dreds of attractive job offers to accept employment as a machin-
ery wiper at the Acme Ice Company at a salary of $20 a week
with a twelve-hour day, a seven-day week, and only fifteen

minutes for lunch?

I know what you are thinking: “Cherchez la femme!” You are
thinking that Mr. Acme, head of the Acme Ice Company, has
a beautiful daughter with whom Rimbaud is madly in love and
he took the job only to be near her.

Friends, you are wrong. It is true that Mr. Aeme does have
a daughter, a large, torpid lass named Clavdia who spends all
her waking hours scooping marzipan out of a bucket and staring
at a television set which has not worked in some years. Rimbaud
has not the slightest interest in Clavdia; nor, indeed, does any
other man, excepting possibly John Ringling North.

So how come Rimbaud keeps working for the Acme Ice
Company? Can it be that they provide him with free Marlboro
Cigarettes, and all day long he is able to settle back, make
himself comfortable and enjoy the filter cigarette with the un-

filtered taste?

  

‘i px olen

dydiz

No, friends, no. Rimbaud is not allowed to smoke on the job
and when he finishes his long, miserable day he has to buy his
own Marlboros, even as you and J, in order to settle back and
enjoy that choice tobacco, that smooth, mellow flavor, that in-
comparable filter, that pack or box.

Well, friends, you might as well give up because you’ll never
in a million years guess why Rimbaud works for the Aeme Ice
Company. The reason is simply this: Rimbaud is a seal!

He started as a performing seal in vaudeville. One night on
the way to the Ed Sullivan show, he took the wrong subway.
All night the poor mammal rode the B.M.T., seeking a helping
hand. Finally a kindly brakeman named Ernest Thompson
Sigafoos rescued the hapless Rimbaud.

He took Rimbaud home and raised him as his own, and
Rimbaud, to show his appreciation, studied hard and got ex-
cellent marks and finished a distinguished academic career as

valedictorian of M.L.T.

Rimbaud never complained to his kindly foster father, but
through all those years of grammar school and high school and
college, he darn near died of the heat! A seal, you must re-
member, is by nature a denizen of the Arctic, so you ean im-
agine how poor Rimbaud must have suffered in subtropical
New York and Boston, especially in those tight Ivy League

suits.

But today at the Acme Ice Company, Rimbaud has finally
found a temperature to his liking. He is very happy and sends

greetings to his many friends,

@ 1961 Max Shulman

Any time, any clime, you get a lot to like with a Marlboro—
and with Marlboro’s newest partner in pleasure, the unfil-
tered, king-size, brand-new Philip Morris Commander. Get

aboard!

 

 

 

 
 

FRIDAY
Edition

Che KRing-tum Phi

Washington and Lee Semi-Weekly Newspaper

FRIDAY
Edition

 

Volume LXI

LEXINGTON, VIRGVNIA4, JANUARY 13, 1961

Number 29

 

THOMAS AND

 

 

SW MSFC Hiring
Br’'dway Arranger

Steve Danzansky, producer-director of the 1961 SWMSFC

Musical, announced today the employment of Crane Calder

as arranger for the show.

Mr. Calder, a noted Broadway arranger, has worked with
Rogers and Hammerstein on such shows as ‘‘Carousel”’ and the
recent hit, ‘Flower Drum Song.” He was an associate in the

 

Jarrard Given
Research Grant
By Institute

A Washington and Lee University
psychology professor has _ been
awarded a $2,300 research grant from
the National Institutes of Health to
study the effects of irradiation on
behavior.

Dr. Leonard E. Jarrard was given
the grant for a year-long study of
the effects of X-rays on behavior
in white rats, according to an an-
nouncement by Dr. William W.
Pusey, dean of the college. Dr. Jar-
rard is an assistant professor of psy-
chology.

Some of his finding may prove
helpful in understanding how radia-
tion exposure may effect human
beings.

Application for the grant was made
in late August following a prelim-
inary summer study under the aus-
pices of a Washington and Lee grant-
in-aid from the John M. Glenn
Fund for faculty research. Dr. Jar-
rard’s summer work included con-
ferences with Dr. Ernest Furght-
gott, a member of the staff of the
Oak Ridge atomic energy laboratories
and a leader in the study of irradia-
tion effects.

To Purchase Equipment

Plans call for Dr. Jarrard’s re-
search to be conducted in the psy-
chology laboratories at Washington
and Lee. The grant will be used to
purchase additional equipment for
testing behavorial patterns of rats
after exposure to varied amounts
of radiation. He will begin detailed
work immediately.

Dr. Jarrard hopes his research
will establish “a technique that may
prove of value in subsequent radia-
tion research.” Results may also
help find an accurate measure of the
minimum amount of radiation that
will cause changes in behavior. An-
other application would be the test-
ing of various chemical agents for
offsetting harmful effects of radia-
tion.

Undergraduate at Baylor

Dr. Jarrard first became interested
in this problem when he was an
X-ray technician during undergrad-
uate years at Baylor University. He
pursued the problem in study for his
M.A. degree at Carnegie Institute of
Technology.

A member of the Washington and
Lee faculty since 1959, he received
his Ph.D. degree from Carnegie.

(Continued on page 4)

 

k so bloody good! Delts Bob Payne and John Griffis look

Robert Russell Bennett Corporation,
an arranging and orchestration firm
in New York City.

Recently retiring from Broadway
as a result of an illness, Mr. Calder
now resides in Lynchburg. Danzan-
sky, who is writing both lyrics and
the music for this year’s show, said
that Calder will arrange his music
for an orchestra.

The rehearsals for the musical will
be held in the old Co-op. Danzan-
sky added that the facilities are be-
ing improved in the building to in-
clude extra lighting and heat.

The musical this year will go on
the road. According to Dave Lefko-
witz, SWMSFC chairman, after the
performance here, the ’61 show will
travel to Roanoke and Lynchburg
to play for the local girls schools,
Hollins, Sweet Briar, and Randolph-
Macon, and an audience sponsered by
the local W&L alumni organizations.

Earlier this week the cast was an-
nounced for the show. Those students
include: Ron Alenstein, Pete Alford,
Bob Allen, Tom Andrew, Philip
Booth, Bart Chamberlain, Dick Cop-
lan, Ed Croft, Brian Dorsk, Cal de
Coligny, Jay Green, Walter Lee, Jay
Legum, and Bill McCollum.

Also selected were: Tim Morton,
Andy Leonard, Phil Leventhal, Wes
Ostergren, Larry Smail, Herb Solo-
mon, Firth Spiegel, Harry Teter,
John Towler, Pete Trager, John
Winegrenner, Bruce Welihan, Rob-
in Wood and Stuart Yoffee.

Danzansky added that Sweet
Briar and Randolph Macon have
been contacted about using their
girls in the show, but the decision
is pending a reading of the script by
the schools.

Last year’s show, “The Cannon’s
Mouth” also directed and produced
by Danzansky, was an outstanding
success.

 

Admissions Up 17 Per Cent

Applications for the class of 1965
are currently arriving at the admis-
sions office at a rate of 17 per cent
ahead of last year, according to Dean
Frank J. Gilliam, director of admis-
sions.

Dean Gilliam explains that the
greater number of applications indi-
cates there will be a continuing rise
in the quality of record required for
the group selected for admissions.

The increase in correspondence
this year has been so great that two
additional, part-time secretarial aides
have had to be added to the admis-
sions staff,

Last year there were 1,261 appli-
cations for the present freshman
class. Out of this total, a_ little
over 500 were accepted to fill a class
of 320.

   

dumbfounded as unidentified student moans in the closing minutes of the

Bridgewater game Wednesday ...

 

of a different nature.

 

Dance Plan Rule Changed

In conjunction with a recent Executive Committee
ruling the University Dance Board has removed the trans-
fer of dance plans from the Honor System. The board, in
a meeting Thursday evening, decided to support the
non-transfer clause on the plans, but enforcement will be

Students who appear at a dance set function will be
required to identify themselves, and those possessing an-
other’s dance plan will be turned away from the door and
the plan will be destroyed regardless of its owner.

Even though the transferability of the plans is deemed
a dance board offense, if any student gains entrance to such
a university function by lying or any other dishonest act,
he is subject to an honor system violation.

 

 

 

 

MOOS TO SPEAK HERE

Six-Time Presidential Candidate, Political Writer
To Be At International Relations Week, Feb. 7-9

Norman Thomas and Malcolm
Moos were announced today as the
featured lecturers in Washington and
Lee’s Seventh Annual International
Relations Week, to be held Feb.
7-9. A third speaker will be an-
nounced at a later date.

Norman Thomas, six-time candi-
date of the Socialist Party for the
Presidency of the United States
(1929-1948), is one of the elder
statesmen of liberal thought in the
United States. Many of the issues
for which he was regarded as a
“far-out” liberal in the 1930’s have
become part of the dominant so-
cial and political philosophy of
America—so much so that he has
complained, in jest, that the major
parties have taken large parts of
his platform away from him by en-
acting it into law.

 

Cotillion Spirit Being Revived
At 52nd W&L Fancy Dress Ball

By the Friday Staff
and
W&L Information Service

The cotillion spirit will be revived
for this year’s colorful Fancy Dress
Ball Jan. 27.

Gala costumes, traditional style
dance music, an elaborate figure and
vivid decorations will ad gusto to the
52nd annual student dance, often
hailed as the “South’s outstanding
collegiate social event of the year.”

Starting the three days of festivi-
ties will be the traditional cocktail
party on Friday from 4:30 until 6:30,
at the Mayflower Inn. The party is
being given in honor of the dance set
president, Don Partington, a Phi
Gam senior from Culpeper, Va. The
popular Brothers Four will be in
the performers’ spotlight.

The theme for the 1961 ball is
“Shakespeare in the Court of St.

Miller Wins
Howe Award

Russell B. Miller was one of eight
area college students to receive the
James Lewis Howe award from the
Virginia Blue Ridge Section of the
American Chemical Society, last
Saturday at Hollins College.

The Howe Awards are presented
annually to the most outstanding
upperclass majors in chemistry and
chemical engineering at the colleges
in the Blue Ridge Section of the
society.

The late Dr. Howe, a world
authority on the platinum metals,
was for many years chairman of
the chemistry department of Wash-
ington and Lee University.

Besides Miller, winners in the area
include Elizabeth Ann Dodd of Hol-
lins College; Juliette Boyd O’Neil,
Sweet Briar College; Mary George
Foster Gore, Randolph-Macon Wo-
man’s College; and Larry L. Jackson
of VMI.

Miller, a member of Phi Kappa Psi
fraternity, is a junior from Houston,
Tex.

 

 

... What's this? Things must be looking up. “Shark” Payne lets go with a

James.” The Tommy Dorsey Orches-
tra under the able direction of War-
ren Covington will provide the music
for the dance. And a lavish figure
will be led by president Partington
and his vice presidents.

Between 400 and 500 persons are
expected to appear in costume for
the annual ball.

Dr. Fitzgerald Flournoy, in the
costume of Shakespeare, bard of the
court, will present the outstanding
personages of his plays as they appear
before the King and Queen. The in-
cident depicted is the elevation of
Shakespeare and his players to the
position of Knights of the Chamber
Extraordinary, an event that took
place in the Court of St. James in
1603. Dr. Flournoy is a Shakespeare-
an scholar and a W&L professor of
English.

From Six Plays

Figure participants will include
characters from six of Shakespeare’s
plays. The dance set vice presidents
and their dates will depict the lead-
ing men and women in Hamlet, King
Lear, Merchant of Venice, Anthony
and Cleopatra, Henry IV, and Julius
Caesar.

The university’s John Graham
Brass Choir will play during the
presentation of the president and
the vice presidents.

The Vice Presidents

The six vice presidents are Ned
Ames, Delt senior from Accomac,
Va.; Don Rhinesmith, Phi Gam senior
from Williamsburg, Va.; George
Birdsong, SAE senior from Suffolk,
Va.; Steve Danzansky, ZBT senior
from Washington, D.C.; Hayward
Day, Phi Gam junior from North
Plainsfield, N.J.; and James Apple-

NOTICE

A University Assembly will be
held Thursday, January 19, at 12
o'clock in Doremus gymnasium.
The occasion is Founder’s Day.
There will be no exams on the
19th. Dr. Cole will deliver the
Founders’ Day address and at-
tendance is required.

 

 

 

baum, PEP junior from Flushing,
N.Y.

Doremus Gymnasium will be dec-
orated along the lines of the famed
Globe Theatre. Included in the dec-
orations will be a royal box, bal-
conies, columns, a raised stage and
workable curtains. The flags of var-
ious houses of English nobility will
hang from the ceiling of the gymna-
sium.

Dukes Play Saturday

On Saturday afternoon from three
to five, the Dukes of Dixieland will
present a concert in the gymnasium.
Conventional dress will be required.

The Dukes who got their start at
the Famous Doors club in New Or-
leans famous French Quarter are
making their second appearance at
W2&L in recent years. A family af-
fair, the group is expert at dishing
out some the hottest Dixieland jazz
going, jazz fans say. Among their
more popular records are “You have
To Hear It to Believe It” and “Up
the Mississippi.”

The final dance will be Saturday
night from eight until midnight. The

(Continued on page 4)

Educated at Princeton

Educated at Princeton and at Un-
ionTheological Seminary, Mr. Thomas
is author of many books. Two of
his more recent ones are A Social-
ist’s Faith (1951) and The Test of
Freedom (1954). He holds an honor-
ary doctoral degree from Princeton
University.

Dr. Moos will soon resume his
duties as Professor of Political
Science at Johns Hopkins Universi-
ty, after having been on leave to
serve as Administrative Assistant to
President Eisenhower. In this capac-
ity he has served as the President’s
speech writer.

Professor Moos was educated at
the University of Minnesota and the
University of California. He has
taught in the Universities of Ala-
bama, Wyoming, and Michigan, in
addition to Johns Hopkins, where
he has been a member of the faculty
since 1942. He, too, is the author of
several books, and he is currently
working on the problems of tran-
sition between successive presidents.

Thomas’ Theme

Mr. Thomas will speak on the
subject, “An American Socialist
Views the East-West Conflict.” The
precise topic of Dr. Moos’ address
has not been fixed, but it will be
complementary with foreign policy,
especially as it is involved with the
Free World’s efforts to counter the
Sino-Soviet threat.

Professor John Gunn, Director of
International Relations Week, stated
that he is particularly pleased to
have such effective spokesmen for
two sharply contrasting points of
view. He added that Norman Thomas
has been a creative and constructive
thinker in an American liberal move-
ment that is often more dogmatic
than imaginative, and that Malcolm
Moos can be expected to give a
reasoned statement of the Adminis-
tration’s position.

Both men have spoken previously
at Washington and Lee. Norman
Thomas spoke on the campus in the
1930’s, and Professor Moos five
years ago.

 

NOTICE

 

The next Friday Edition will ap-

| pear on January 27, the Friday of

Fancy Dress.

 

Coffey, Masinter, Ulrich, And Shepherd Are Named
To Posts of Associate Editors of W&L Law Review

It was recently announced that
four seniors of the Law School have
been chosen as associate editors of
the Washington and Lee Law Re-
view. Paul H. Coffey, Jr., E. Michcael
Masinter, Joseph E. Ulrich, and
Robert E. Shepherd, Jr., along with
Joel E. Kocen will publish the 18th
volume of the Law Review.

Paul H. Coffey, Jr., graduated from
Richmond Professional Institute of
the college of William and Mary in
1958. Besides being class president
and a dean’s list student, he was on
the men’s honor council and a Junior
Marshall. Here at Washington and
Lee he has held the post of treasurer
and president of the Student Bar
Association.

E. Michael Masinter received his
B.S. degree at Washington and Lee
in 1958. While an undergraduate he

 

was president and treasurer of the
Phi Epsilon Pi fraternity. At present
he is a member of the Student Bar
Association and is the chairman of
the Honors and Awards Committee.

Joseph E. Ulrich graduated from
Washington and Lee in 1959. As an
undergraduate, he was on the varsity
golf squad and president of Kappa
Sigma fraternity. He is a member of
Phi Alpha Delta legal fraternity and
the Student Bar Association.

Robert E. Shepherd, Jr., received
his B.A. degree at Washington and
Lee in 1959. While here, he was a
member of the Lambda Chi Alpha
fraternity, president of the Forensic
Union, chairman of the Independent
party, and sports editor of the Ring-
Tum Phi. He is at present member
of the Student Bar Association and
historian of his legal fraternity, Phi
Delta Phi.

 

... W&L goes ahead as a greedy student rubs hands together. Could he

war whoop while Griffis chimes in. Steve Walsh, in the background, ponders have a bet on the game? Everyone is elated, except the attractive Bridge-
water cheerleaders who sat near by. W&L won 68-63. (See page 3)...

the situation...

—Photos by Bill Young
Page 2

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

Che Ring-twmn Phi

Friday Edition
Member of Virginia Intercollegiate Press Association

 

A Crucial Hell Week

It is truly unfortunate that

Help Week proposals drafted

in the IFC failed to gain endorsement by that body. This would
have been an attempt to remedy a condition which we all know
is dangerous, and such positive action on the part of a student
organization would have been a likely deterrent to future inter-
vention by the administration in this area.

As it stands now, “Hell Week” this year is a powder keg. It
will be incumbent upon all fraternity officials to cooperate
with the judiciary committee of the IFC to insure that no
violation of standing regulations occurs. Even more important
than organizing personal police action, however, all fraternity
men should exercise good judgment and discretion in planning

their activities during that week,
of good taste.”

keeping in mind the “‘principles

The “positive program’ advocated, but dismissed by the
IFC should receive consideration by the pledge masters and
other individuals who plan their house’s ‘Hell Week” procedure
The “negative” report of the IFC deserves attention as well.
While brothers idealistically conceive of a unified core of frater-
nity members they should remember: ‘“‘that no pledge can in-
crease his respect for any individual or group of individuals
which forces him to perform deeds that violate his basic sense of

human dignity and decency.”

Of course, all fraternity men are mindful of the conse-
quences that might result from violations of “long-standing”
rules, but possibly we should anticipate other consequences—
unfortunately a university in the west didn’t, and as a result
tragedy ended the week of supposed pledge unification.

Ww
GOOD LUCK

Ww
ON EXAMS!

A group of former students of
Professor Clayton E. Williams found
out it’s easier to please than surprise
the retired dean of Washington and
Lee University’s School of Law.

Some 34 of them planned to do
both, but while Dean Williams was
pleased with the hand-made, auto-
matic, 20-gauge shotgun they pre-
sented him several weeks ago, he
wasn’t quite as surprised over the
gift as his friends had hoped he
would be.

“T wasn’t so sure I was going to get
a gun that I brought along a box of
shells, but I was pretty suspicious
of things,” Dean Williams laughed.

The presentation, made by Gra-
ham Morison of Washington, D.C.,
a member of the law class of 1932,
was planned to mark the end of
Dean Williams’ final year as dean.
His retirement from that office was
effective last September.

“We just didn’t want to see 1960
end without expressing our grati-
tude to Dean Williams for all he
has meant to us,” Morison said.

Because Dean Williams is an ar-
dent, expert sportsman, Morison said
he and Martin P. Burks, III, of
Roanoke, conceived the idea of a
gift for hunting or fishing.

Mrs. Williams was asked for a
suggestion, and she told them Dean
Williams had shown a recent inter-
est in an automatic shotgun. Mori-
'son immediately placed an order
' with the Remington firearms people

 

   

DEAN CLAYTON WILLIAMS
Former Law School Head

for one of the finest weapons they
produce.

But when some of Dean Williams’ |
Rockbridge County hunting buddies!
found out what the gift would be,
they had reservations about it.

“Skinny Williams was brought up
on an old-fashioned, double-barrel

 

shotgun,” said Cap’n Dick Smith,
former Washington and Lee athlet-
ic director. “He wouldn’t anymore

-|own one of those fancy jobs than

fly to the moon!”

Here, says Morison, was some-
thing Dean Williams had dealt with
in 41 years as a law professor—a
conflict of evidence. To resolve the
issue, Smith, D. Allen Penick, Mat-
thew W. Paxton and others or-
ganized a hunt for Dean Williams.

Around the campfire, they drew
him into a discussion on guns, and
sure enough, out of it came the ad-
mission that while he hadn’t held
much for automatic shotguns in the

-|past, Dean Williams thought per-

haps he’d reached the point in his
hunting career where an automatic
might improve his bag.

Because the special Remington
gun demanded exact specifications,
Dean Williams’ friends even finagled

-|the necessary measurements from
_| him. About this time, Dean Williams

began to wonder why all this sud-
den interest in his arm length and
his opinions on automatic shotguns.
It didn’t take his legally-trained
mind long to weigh the evidence and
arrive at a correct verdict, one he
kept to himself, though.

While Dean Williams may not
have been surprised at receiving
a gun, he was appropriately impres-
sed by the magnificence of the wea-
pon. Every part, both metal and
wood, is hand-tooled of the finest
materials. Sunk into the stock is a

 

Law School’s Dean Williams

Honored By Former Students

silver medallion, inscribed for Dean
Williams.

“The company put one man,
working day and night, on this gun
for us,” Morison said. “He did a
wonderful job.” Morison says the
gun is valued at around $1,300.

The presentation took place in
the faculty lounge of the law school
where 18 of the 34 who gave Dean
Williams the gun were present.

“All of them wanted to be here,
but they’re spread all over the Unit-
ed States,” said Morison. “We could
have gotten hundreds to chip in on
Dean Williams’ gift if there had been
time to get in touch with all of
them.”

“To Clayton E. Williams, Dean,
School of Law, Washington and Lee
University, 1946-1960, Professor of
Law, 1919-, Gentleman and Inspir-
ing Teacher of the Law, Bird Hunt-
er and Fisherman Extraordinary.

“This especially made Remington
automatic shotgun is presented by
the undersigned, who are friends
and grateful former students, to
mark his retirement as Dean and
with the hope that such modern
weaponry will be tolerated as it in-
creases the bag.”

Dean Williams, obviously pleased
with the gesture and the new gun,
had one observation:

“I don’t know what Mrs. Williams
is going to say when she finds out
I've been involved in a_ shotgun
ceremony.”

 

LETTERS

Ep: toR

The Ring-tum Phi

Dear Sir:

Page two of the Tuesday Edition
of the Ring-tum Phi has a peculiar
consistency about it. It usually stinks!
And this past one was no exception.

 

It is somewhat ironic that two fine|_
columnists as Ed Webster and Harvey | 7
Allen have to share space with such]

trash. The basic problem is, of course,
an excess of acid-forming abuse of

the press, resulting in an upset,| \?"7

odor-producing page. Now abuse of
the press usually stems from two
things: misinterpreting and/or mis-
quoting the facts, or too liberal an
application of petty personal pre-
judice.

We can find examples of both. For
instance, we read that this is “a
time when the South is being scalped
in Congress;” and that “the South
has become the whipping boy of
the...national legislature;” and we
wonder at the naivete of such state-
ments, in view of the committee sys-
tem in Congress, and in view of the
fact that Southern Congressmen
overwhelmingly dominate these com-
mittees by virture of the seniority
system.

But what’s behind this display of
editorial inefficiency? The answer is:
provincialism—pure, unadulterated
pre-historic provincialism. The bas-
is for page two has been out and out
devotion to separateness. In speak-
ing of the Centennial Service,
through which the Tuesday Edition
got to pot-shoot at the rest of Amer-
ica, the Tuesday Editor told us,
“One of the avowed purposes of the
Centennial is to promote unity.”
And unity—that’s bad!

But, picture it: there they are in
Lee Chapel holding a service. So
what? So it gives the UDC something
to do on a Sunday afternoon. So the
school does get to exploit Robert E.
Lee’s name for some press coverage.
So what? What’s so terrible?—but
no, you'd think it was General Sher-
man staining the old Heartland again.

Centennial! Think of it; that means
one-hundred! (100!) Isn’t the war
over yet? What’s the purpose of the
whole Centennial if not to show the
futility of war? And those guys
still want to keep fighting!

And unity—that’s bad. Yes, there’s
the basis of it, a personal perdilection
for separateness. It’s a personal kind
of “prejudice” (they use the word
themselves) which is at the bottom of
it all. But what does it mean for
Washington and Lee? Well, more
than anything else, its a desire for
separateness in the student body. As
if there’s not enough already!

We've got second-class, “sectional,”
“whipping-boys”—and the Yankees

(Continued on page 4)

The firing of the cannon against
Fort Sumpter on the 12th of April,
1961, by a group of indomitable
Citadel cadets will open a new era
in American his-
tory, the Civil War
Centennial, an ad-
venture in folk-
loreism, which
barring an early
surrender, should
end at Appomatox
on the 9th of
April, 1964.

The purpose of
the Centennial is
a challening one:
to promote unity
and patriotism in the hearts of all
Americans, black and white, yankee
and rebel. This desire to promote
unity is probably a sincere one, but
the Centennial is not without its
critics.

This December the Virginia City,
Nev., Territorial Enterprise, in view
of the coming Centennial celebra-
tions, caustically observed that it
would be only fitting to indulge in
some if-history and have President

 

Tuesday Edition’s Editorial

The editorial which appeared in
the Tuesday Ring-tum Phi, while
nostalgic and thus

an event that is
being surrounded
by the most op-
pressive sentimen-
talism—the Civil
War Centennial,
belongs more, it
would seem to me,
to the nineteenth
than _ twentieth
century. For, sure-
ly it’s time for the
South to outgrow
that banner of ravaged virginity she
has waved for the past 100 years.

It is time for the citizens of the
South to realize that they are the

 

is the Twentieth Century; and, in
a time when the free world is look-
ing desperately for a leader it is a
sad commentary that one of the
greatest sections of the country that
is assuming this role of leadership
has sunk to a bog of outraged in-
nocence and cloying paralysis.

We in the South are members of

 

the United States of America, and,

 

HEART

DISEASE

HEART FUND \_

#§ HEALTH ENEMY

 
 

 

 

suited to celebrate |

whipping boy to no one but their |
own narrowness and prejudices. This |

New Proposals Are Advanced
To Bring Civil War To Halt

By VICTOR LASSETER
Friday Columnist

Kennedy, “as umpire of battle re-
creations,” declare that the South
really won the war after all.

South Could Be Swapped

The editor of the Enterprise
pointed out that a secession by the
South might be profitable to both
sides. The U.S. could then swap
the South for Red China in the
U.N., where the chairman of the
House and Rules Committee might
be able to teach the Reds some-
thing about obstructionist techniques.

The new government of the South
would probably be similar to that
of the U.S., but with more emphasis
upon states rights: state control of
tariffs, foreign policy, education, etc.
Some cynics, however, have suggest-
ed that the new government might
take the form of the Senate Finance
Committee.

Who Would Be President?

Who would be the new president,
or chairman of the South (accord-
ing to your viewpoint) is a moot
question at present. Harry Byrd of
Virginia is of course a strong pos-

(Continued on page 4)

 

Belongs In 19th Century;

It’s Time For South To Drop Prejudices, Says Vann

By JAMES VANN
Friday Columnist

we enjoy to the fullest the protec-
tions that this membership gives us.
But, in exchange for this protection
and its benefits we incur obliga-
tions. Now the law of the land,

i.e., the Supreme Court, has de-
termined that there will be no
further segregation on the basis of
color, and in this decision the court
is supported by the United States
government. Therefore, let us in
the Southland get busy and try to
perfect a way to implement this
decision that will be easiest for all
concerned.

 

This is the time for us in the
United States—and especially the
young adults—to look to ourselves
and act with dignity and courage;
there should be no place in our
thoughts for those characteristic
statements of “scalped in Congress,”
“rammed down our throats,” “whip-
ping boy,” etc. Rather, let us, as
the future leaders of this Southland

With all the current furor about
grades, and especially with the Wash-
ington and Lee grading system, and
also with exams
starting Monday,
I've given some

thought to my
own grades, and
consequently to

my own grading
system. I haven’t
worked out all the
details yet, but I
think I have a
more logical plan
than the one now
in existence, and
more beneficial to all concerned than
any plan which has so far been of-
fered.

In divising my scheme I have at-
tempted to discard the disadvantages
now extant and capitalize on the
advantages. First the disadvantages:

The point most often made is that
there are no official pluses and min-
uses (I do not hold this view, for I
think that there are several pluses
and a great many minuses in office).
This is a definite disadvantage, and
out of step with the times.

   

Craven

I have professors who run up to
double pluses and down to triple
minuses, but my parents are yet
to see anything but a naked, un-
embellished “C”. If we students
can receive decorated papers, is
it not the University’s duty to send
out decorated IBM sheets?

The second disadvantage of our
system most commonly complained
of is the wide range of numbers tak-
en in by the grade of C. The com-
plaint lodged is that the 82-C should
not be forced to keep company with
a 70-C, and further that it is unfair.
This seems to me to be unfounded,
and although it may be pointed out
that the 82 man is being discriminat-
ed against, consider the fact that
the 70 man is being discriminated
for! He is being allowed to associate
with those above him, and can as-
sume their same dignity. This is
positivism in action, and I’m for it.

Now the advantage of our sys-
tem: First of all, it requires a know-
ledge of the alphabet only through
the letter “F”. This is modern sim-
plification. Secondly, it requires no
mathematical knowledge, or ac-

 

we all love, try to formulate al
sane and sober method for solving most important, it is a revered and

quaintance with abstract symbols
(again, plus and minus). Thirdly, the

 

By THORNS CRAVEN
Friday Columnist
close behind the Assimilation Com-
mittee and walking on the grass.

Therefore I propose that a system
be adopted which incorporates the
above advantages and turns the dis-
advantages to its favor. To begin
with we keep the tradition of W&L
by using the traditional alphabet.
We improve upon the simplicity
by eliminating all letters past “C”,
and improve the general level of
learning on campus by requiring
knowledge of mathematical symbols.
(Lynwood, use the symbols for plus
and minus here in order to acquaint
the faculty and student body with

 

University Is Obligated To Decorate Our
IBM Cards If Craven’s System Initiated

this level of learning). This brings us
to the arbitrary allocation of num-
bers to letters.

Since “A” is on top, and the up-
per-class is shrinking, let it cover
the range from 97 to 100. That
takes care of the possible three per
cent who might be in someone’s
Four Hundred. The numbers from
96 downward to 65 should take
care of the letter “B”, if a dimin-
ishing number of pluses beginning
with 15 is employed for each des-
cending number to 81. 80 shall be
just plain B, and each number to

(Continued on page 4)

 

Luthy’s Phone Bill Evicts Him From His Apartment;
Asks Why It’s As Cheap To Call Alaska As Hollins

By TOM LUTHY
Friday Columnist

Whoever it was that said that the
friendly townsfolk bleed the stu-
dents of all their money is crazy.
Why, just the oth-
er day I had a chat
with a representa-
tive of the local
telephone com-
pany who tried to
dispose this popu-
lar misconception
to me.

When I asked
him why the rates
to Hollins and
to Nome, Alaska,
were the same, he
was shocked. Apparently some of his
constituents had failed to report to
him that the Alaskan rates had
reached the Roanoke level. It seems
that they need the added revenue for
training operators in pronounciation
of the names of out-of-state cities
since the girls usually have trouble
with names of more than two sylla-
bles. Another interesting fact which
was brought to my attention was that
the reason why you never get an
operator to answer before twenty-
five rings is that most of these fair
public servants are enrolled in a
night school course at Sem which
deals in elementary numbers, and
they have difficulty in making it
back the board in time for the 7 p.m.
rush.

 

Luthy

I was overjoyed to learn that
the Information operator is also
employed at the Liquid Lunch
since her union contract only al-

 

ery fifteen minutes. Actually she
really needs the money, because
the company only allocates 3 per
cent of revenue for employees’
wages. Another 17 per cent goes
to a perpetual fund for building
the public image through insti-
tutional advertising over WREL
(possibly better known to us as
the “Sonar Sound of the South!).

I couldn’t figure out who got the
other 80 percent of the take, but as
the cheerful young executive drove
me back to my cave in his Contin-
ental—my phone bill last month
made me forfeit my apartment—
something made me realize that he
could have become an “Operator”
without even going to voice school.

Che Ring-tum Phi
Friday Edition

The Ring-tum Phi is published Tues-
day and Friday during the college year.
It is printed w, the Journalism Labor-
oer Press, ashington and Lee Uni-
versity. The mailing address is Box
899, Lexington, Va,

 

Entered second class matter Sep-

tember 20, 1 at the Post Office, Lex-
ington. Va., under the act of March

‘National Advertising Representative:
The National Advertisers Service, Inc.,
420 Madison Ave., New York, N.Y.

  
   
 
 
  
 

Editor-in-Chief................ Nathan Simpson
Business Manager.............. Huntley Biggs
Editorial Board
Managing Editor................ George Honts
Assistant Managing Editor.............0.0...

Roy Goodwin
News Editor... v nay Nea
Sports Editor.. Bill Outman

Associate Editor..
Copy Eiditor............00.
Advertising Manager.

.Tom Rains
Tom Jordan
-Edward Holmes

 

 

 

 

 

 

     

 

     

(Continued on page 4) | time-honored tradition, ranking lows her to answer the phone ev- an ie wet. feFall
ee | GET AWAY FROM ME | YOU JUST PRETEND To EVEN HYPOCR
r LIKE ME BecAUse T HAVE at
| { | | You HYPOCRITE! 11/1 Ih UE Gupgetra | HATE 10 GET
: | | ,

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
Nim

rr

 

THE RING-TUM PHI

Page 3

 

It Was Almost 28

 

 

BLOCKED!—Bridgewater’s Jim Wilson (31) blocks a shot by W&L

center John McDowell (54). But 6-6

McDOWELL TALLIES 26 POINTS

 

By JOHN ALLGOOD
Assistant Sports Editor

“Balance that’s what counts,” said
W&L basketball coach Bob McHenry
after his charges whipped Bridge-
water, 68-63, Wednesday night at
Doremus Gym.

The Generals’ victory, their fourth
against seven losses, is a good exam-
ple of what McHenry calls ‘balance.’

John McDowell, who had not
been much help on offense the past
several games, really found him-
self as he poured in 26 points.
W&L’s two leading scorers, Bip
Fauber and Brett Thackston, ad-
ded 15 and 11 points, respectively.

Fauber and McDowell, who are
one-two in team rebounding totals,
swept the boards with 23 and 18 re-
bounds.

On defense Fauber, Thackston,
Steve Rutledge, Bill Ide, and Dave
Grogan all turned in excellent per-
formances.

Continuing his appraisal of the
game, McHenry said, “Bridgewater
didn’t play nearly so good a game
as they played when they beat us,
3 57-50, at Bridgewater. But we didn’t
play a good game either. When your
opponent plays poorly, you are in-
clined to play poorly. And that’s just
what we did.”

McHenry was very pleased with
several aspects of the Generals’
performance but cautioned that
they still needed work on both of-
fense and defense.

For the first time in four games the
Generals did not commit 20 or more
fouls. Against Bridgewater, W&L
made only 11 fouls including a sea-
son low of three in the second half—
quite a turnabout from their second
McDowell still scored 26 points. half fouling sprees against Chatta-

—Photo by Bill Young nooga and Hampden-Sydney.
The Generals hit 26 of 70 shots

from the floor for a 37.14 shooting
percentage, their best of the year.

For the second straight game the
Generals completely dominated the
boards, grabbing 63 rebound to
the Eagle’s 35.

Defense was another bright point
for the Generals. Their man-for-
man defense was very effective the
first half, but the zone they ran part
of the second half because Fauber
and Thackston had three fouls each
was rather loose.

“We are winning these games with
our defense,” McHenry said. “We

 

 

 

Smith, Robinson, Mercereau Star As Wrestlers
Smother Gallaudet, 25-5; Tigers Here Tonight

By PETER ALFORD
Sports Writer

The Washington and Lee wrestling |

team upped its season record to 6-2
Monday with a decisive 25-5 victory
over Gallaudet.

Coach Dick Miller’s charges have
beaten New York University and
Pfieffer College while dropping
meets to the University of North
Carolina and Franklin and Marshall.

Their next outing will be against
Hampden-Sydney tonight. A
freshman meet with Fishburne
Military Academy will start off
the evening of wrestling at 7:00.

Captain Sandy Mercereau and
Hoke Robinson led the Generals to
their win over Gallaudet. Mercereau
flattened Bill Zenor at 1:23 of the
second period while Robinson, a
freshman, pinned his man after 1:30
of the second period.

Herb Smith, another freshman,
wrestling in the 167-pound slot, won
by the largest point margin of the
afternoon as he beat Gallaudet’s
John Merlowity, 8-3. Smith has
wrestled in every meet this season
and has an impressive 4-1 record.

Last year’s 123-pound man, Dave
Montgomery, now grappling at 130,
won a decision. Montgomery, a Delt
sophomore, beat Robert Seromth,
3-1, to boost his year’s mark to 4-1.
Jud Babcock, also a sophomore, ad-
ded three points to the W&L tally
by beating Tim Adams, 4-2.

In the unlimited match, W&L’s
Bob Carlson met Al Johnson and
was pinned. Carlson succumbed
to his stronger opponent at 1:33
of the second period.

Two other freshmen wrestled with

 

 

THE DUTCH INN

For Reservation Call
MRS. KATHERINE ADAMS
HO 3-3433

 

 

 

 

 

 

W&L varsity for the first time.! Jansen filled in for Dick Albert,
Chick Owens, a Phi Psi, who learned; W&L’s regular 147-pound grappler,
most of his wrestling at Gilman in| and decisioned Ed Tarsten, who was
Baltimore, took a hard fought decis- | third in the Mason-Dixon Confer-
ion from Jack Pederson, 3-1. Ed (Continued on page 4)

 

BOMBS AWAY!—Bip Fauber (22)

HSE

 

 

had to use the zone tonight for a
while and it looked bad. I don’t like
a zone, but I didn’t have any choice
about using it.”

Wednesday’s game was the Gen-
erals last until February 4 when they
play Hampden-Sydney there in a
contest McHenry is already looking
forward to.

The Generals have not won a
road game since the final contest
of the 1958 season, but McHenry
thinks they will have a _ better
than even chance at Hampden-
Sydney.

 

    

fires a jump shot in W&L’s 68-63 vic-

tory over Bridgewater. Fauber collected 15 points and 23 rebounds for the

game.

 

 

Fred Ridolphi put on a one-man j Howard “Camel” Martin with 20
scoring show Thursday afternoon as} points and Charlie Savage with 14
the freshman basketball team rolled followed Ridolphi in the W&L scor-
to its second win in two days. The ing column.

Thursday victim was Augusta Mili- | The most amazing aspect of the
tary Academy, which fell to the Brig- game was the Brigadiers’ shooting
adiers, 81-55. | percentage from the floor—a

Wednesday night Coach Joe Lyles’) whopping 73.0 per cent!
charges uped their record to 5-3 with |
a 76-52 win over Bridegwater’s fresh-
men.

Against Bridgewater Wednesday,
| the Brigadiers had little trouble after

| midway through the first half.

Ridolphi, who has been hot one | : 2 ee
game and cold the next, had his | They left the court at intermission

| with a 34-24 lead and widened their
best half of the — Thursday | margin to 71-41 with four minutes
as he poured in 20 points in the I left in the game.

os wedhy sg _ -~ “yo | Martin led the W&L scoring with
in the second half, but was on the | 1> points while Stu Yoffe, Fred

bench most of the time because of a
foul trouble. | toobeteateogentengeontoogetoateoeofe stone afoot stooeae

Ridolphi’s |
Baker

scoring performance
Ford Sales

was so good that with two minutes
se
&

 

Oe Tee Soh oe fe nfo oe fe she ne feof fe oe afe afe ofe oe fe oleae fe of afe ole oho whe ale ae she oe afe of

 

| left in the first half he had scored
| 20 points while the whole Augusta

| team had scored only 18 points.

*Dodge and Dodge Dart

Phone HObart 3-3146 Highway 60 East

o

*

*
° Hi
° and Lancer |
I$ America’s First Fine .
| e e
‘3 ECONOMY CAR 3 CLEARANCE
|@ e| of lot for 1961 Models
Fe
'¢ Rockbridge Motor Co. NEW AND
3 INC. : USED CARS
rr °
e e
e e

4
4
.
4
’
4
4
‘
4
.
4
4
4
4
:
BETTER DEALS :
.
4
4
4
4
.
4
4
4
‘
4
4
4
4
4
4

 

te
.
.
.
¥
a
.
a
.
°
a
a
‘
‘e
.
le
x
¥
5
5
4
‘
¥
.
.
4
ie
‘.
5
5
‘
5
.
.
4
te

ofp ote ofe fe oe oleate leo ooo fee oe oe oe ofeote ste eater

Ridolphi Outscores Augusta Cagers In First Half |
As Freshmen Speed To Third Straight Win, 81-55

Schaeffer, and Savage had 11 points
each.

Schaeffer was the talk of the
game after he sank three straight
20-30-foot jump shots midway
through the second half. Before his
scoring spree, he had been unable
to find the range from the floor. |

 

 

A Yoffe-Savage combination of
eight points near the end of the first
half ended Bridgewater’s last serious|
threat and put the Brigadiers ten)
points in front. |

W&L controlled the boards, pulling |
down 55 rebounds to Bridgewater's |
41. Martin grabbed 13 rebounds while |
Savage got ten.

Generals Crush Bridgewater, 68-63,
Bip Fauber Pulls Down 23 Rebounds

One thing that will help the Gen-
erals will be the return of Ken Kow-
alski, who had a 10.7 average before
he injured his ankle. But McHenry

(Continued on page 4)

Ww Ww
Hustling Fauber

Sparks Team
On, Off Court

At the opening of the basketball
season Coach Bob McHenry said
that W&L’s chances would depend
largely on the hustle and accurate
shooting of Bip Fauber and Ken
Kowalski.

After 11 games, the Generals own
a 4-7 record and a large chunk of
the credit for those four victories
belongs to Fauber.

Kowalski has not had a_ good
chance to live up to the coach’s pre-
diction because he has missed the
last three games with an ankle in-
jury.

But 6-2 Fauber has been the
General's leader both on and off
the court. His mates showed their
confidence in him by electing him
the permanent captain just before
Christmas.

Last year as a freshman Fauber
mede 48.2 per cent of his shots from
the floor but managed only an eight-
point scoring average.

So far this season the sophomore
hustler is still averaging 43 per
cent of his shots from the floor, and
has boosted his average to 11.5.

McHenry has nothing but praise
for Fauber, “Give me five players
that hustle and try all the time
like Fauber does and I'd be the
happiest coach in the country. Bip
is always hustling, he never quits.”

Although he is averaging 11.5 points
per game, scoring has not been Fau-
ber’s strong point. His main strength
has been rebounding.

Fauber’s season high in rebound-
ing was 24 against Emory and Hen-
ry, which had three men over 6-5
on the court at all times.

Bip, who is a fierce competitor
on the board, collected 23 rebounds
against Bridgewater; 20 against
Sewanee, another tall team; 16
against Hampden-Sydney; 12 against
Chattanooga, the best rebounding
team the Generals have faced; and
12 against Norfolk William and

(Continued on page 4)

 

 

 

 

Wayland’s Drug Store

Prescriptions, Russell Stover
Candies

Next to Rockbridge Bank

 

 

 

 

 

BROWN’S
CLEANING
WORKS

We Call for and Deliver

24 Hour Service

 

 

|
|
|
|

|

|

Student agents in the |
dormitory and fraternities ||
HO 3-2013 14 Randolph St.

 

 

TETLOW
TV Service

221 S. Main HO 3-2841

 

 

 

 

 

 

: FOR ROOM RESERVATIONS—CALL HO 3-2151 : I= )
$ LEXINGTON MOTEL °
: Large Rooms—U. S. 11 By-Pass South 2 THE COLLEGE INN
. Free TV—Phones—Continental Breakfast °
* Only Motel in corporate limits of Lexington ° The Best Food in Town
Fee e eee ee eee ee eee SEO DESOTO CETECOOOOOOOOOEDEOR
- American and Italian
FOREIGN CARS AND STUDEBAKER LARKS Catering to the Students, Faculty,
OUR SPECIALTY and Towns People
Expert Motor Work Open 8:00 a.m.—8:00 p.m. OPEN SUNDAYS
MAIN STREET MOBIL STATION
Xx Y)

 

 

 

 

COSSSSSHOSSSSOSSOHOSOHEOSOEOOOOOEEEES —

 

 

 

Seer Pete reo NOOO r Oe

NEW TOWN INN :
Short Orders—Lunches
Catering to Students

Serbo ohooh oho nfe nfo ofeage
Pee erfeferferferye

PEE heey

ln ft fat. tty ttt tnd
00060008000 00CSSS0C0008

Spencer General
Tire

E. Nelson Street Extension

BEST IN TIRES
GENERAL

Best in Recapping

Kraft Tread

Compact Tires

 

, ©006006000000000000080000

 

Leseeereeesoersraeoooess
R. L. Hess and Bro.
JEWELERS
Lexington, Virginia
HO 3-2833

ee

¢
i.
%
re
e
‘e
¥
¥
¥
.
.

ale he Be Be Be Be Me Be Be Bo Be Be Be Bae

 

we
+
*
eA
%
%

+
+

Oe ee eS ee eS ee

 

 

Lexington
Laundro Matic

209 S. Main

*

HAND IRONED
SHIRTS

Dry Cleaning

Service

for your convenience

 

 

 

 

DIXON’S

ESSO SERVICE CENTER
ROUTE 60 EAST IN LEXINGTON

Across from the White Top Resturant
HO 3-4214

Wash, Grease, Lube, Road Service

Charge Accounts Welcome
Page 4

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

Brownlee Explains His Position;
Last Column Was Misinterpreted

By MALCOLM BROWNLEE
Friday Columnist

I do not want to drag out dying
issues especially if they have already
been drug about so much that they
are worn out. But
I believe that
some clarification
is needed so that
the students who
read this column
can enter exams
without having on
their minds the
weight of what
they should do
— about the dance-
Brownlee plan issue. My po-

sition in the con-
troversy about the issue has been
misunderstood by some students.

The trouble, at least as it con-
cerns me, all started when I wrote
in this column comparing my honor
to a small rubber band. Many stu-
dents, including a good many in-

   

 

Final FD Plans Laid

(Continued from page 1)

Jerry Wald band will provide the
music. Dress for the dance will be
semi-formal, that is, suits for men
and appropriate dress for the ladies.

Jimmy Vann, president of the
Dance Board, expressed the hope that
the Fancy Dress weekend will be as
successful as the others of the past
have been.

Vann said, “Let me take this op-
portunity to say that no alcoholic
beverage may be brought to or con-
sumed at any of the dance functions
over the weekend. The Dance Board
hopes that the student body will sup-
port Don Partington in making this
weekend the success it has been in
the past.”

 

Homestead Cuts Rates

The Homestead is announcing
special ski rates for college students
at the Hotel’s ski and ice skating
area in Hot Springs, Va.

Beginning this weekend (Jan. 14-
15), the special rate for college stu-
dents will be $6 per day (Sat. or
Sun.) or $10 if they wish to pur-
chase a two-day weekend ticket.

The person must identify himself,
with his student I.D. card, as a col-
lege student in order to obtain this
special rate.

Jarrard Awarded Grant

(Continued from page 1)

 

While at Carnegie Tech, he served
as a research assistant of a National
Science Foundation project for sev-
eral years and his last year as a
Public Health Service Fellow. Dr.
Jarrard has published several arti-
cles in leading psychology journals.

 

 

STATE

LEXINGTON, VA

 

 

LASTS TIMES SATURDAY

;

GUAT
Table

 

 

      
  
  

Metro
Goldwyn
Mayer presents
A Euterpe Production #

-—_

eeeteeegese

In CinemaScope and METROCOLOR «

 

THURS.-FRL-SAT.
ELVIS PRESLY

“Flaming Star’”’

 

COMING!
“Marriage Go Round”
“Inherit the Wind”

 

 

 

telligent ones, did not realize that
the column was a satire. They took
me at my word; and the really in-
telligent ones, of course, disagreed
with me.

This makes one believe that my
satire was not a clear one and there-
fore not a good one, although at the
time I wrote it, I was very pleased
with it.

I think the metaphor I used was

a good one, so good that it could
not be made ridiculous. I compared
my honor to a small rubber band
and emphasized the fact that it was
small and could not be stretched
very far. I also said that it was
most comfortable when not
stretched at all, although it was
somewhat flabby and useless then.

The idea that I would admit my
honor was small and flabby seemed
ridiculous to me. But to many stu-
dents the metaphor seemed to de-
scribe accurately the position of stu-
dents who did not want the honor
system stretched. In short, the col-
umn was not ridiculous enough or
pointed enough for good satire.

Also, it should be pointed out that
I was writing about honor, not about
the honor system. I believe that a
student’s honor should be strong
enough to keep him from breaking
an agreement he has signed whether
he is in danger of being penalized
or not. It is possible to stretch the
honor system too far, but only if
our sense of honor is limited. When
the honor system encompasses more
than the student's honor itself, then
the system has been stretched too
far.

I believe, though, that no student
wants to think of his sense of honor
as small and limited. I would like
to see students think more about
whether they are violating their
sense of honor when they break
a signed agreement and less about
whether they are violating a rule
in the honor system.

Wrestlers Meet
Tigers Tonight

(Continued from page 3)

 

ence last year, 2-0. Albert missed
the meet because of an injury but
Coach Miller said that Albert will
be ready to go against Hampden-
Sydney tonight.

Miller feels this year’s squad has
extremely good depth and balance
which will show up as the season
progresses.

“We can switch Ted Hardin,
Chick Owens, and Alex Alexander
at our lower weights and Albert,
Smith, and Sandy (Mercereau)
can wrestle anywhere from 147-
167,” Miller said. “Pagano and
Babcock at 177 gives us latitude
when someone gets hurt or sick.”

Miller thinks his three unlimited
men Sam Block, Carlson, and Gra-
ham Fulton give him more depth in
that position than he has ever had
in his nine years of coaching here.

The coach sees West Virginia as
the toughest meet this season. The
team will travel to Morgantown in
mid-February.

“Right now,” Miller said, “the
team and I are looking only at
Hampden-Sydney tonight.”

| me ke

 

 

 

SUN.-MON.

    

   
 
   

NG

ERNEST BORGNINE
KERWIN MATHEWS

AN RD-DR PRODUCTION |

 

 

TOLLEY’S PHARMACY
Prescriptions Filled
Immediately

PURCHASE DRUGS
HO 3-2211

 

 

 

 

TEXACO
Super Service Station
Lexington, Virginia
Corner Main and Nelson

 

Generals Crush
Bridgewater

(Continued from page 3)

has pointeed out the Kowalski will
have to fight to regain his old place
in the lineup.

Bridgewater battled hard before
losing Wednesday, They grabbed the
lead three times and tied the score on
two other occasions.

The Generals jumped into an
early 10-5 lead, but Bridgewater
cut the margin to one point with
ten minutes left in the first half.

McDowell, Ide, and Rutledge then
combined to put the Generals ahead
by seven, 20-13, with three quick
baskets.

But Bridgewater stormed back
again. Hot-shot Jim Reedy tallied
four straight points to put it in
front, 22-21, with six minutes re-
maining.

Rutledge then sank a 20-foot
jump shot from the head of the
circle to send W&L back into the
lead.

With McDowell, who was demon-
strating how a big man should play
in the middle, leading the way, the
Generals built up a 34-28 halftime
lead.

Fauber and McDowell paced a
General rally which opened a low-
point gap early in the second half.

But Bridgewater, sparked by
Reedy and Dick Kinkaid, slowly
whittled the W&L lead until it
sprung ahead, 59-58, with four min-
utes left to play.

Ide sank a layup to put W&L
back ahead.

Then Kinkaid tossed in a basket
from the corner to give the Eagles
their last lead of the night, 61-60.

A minute later Fauber’s driving |);

layup gave the Generals the lead for
keeps.

 

NOTICE
There will be no meeting of the
staff of the Friday Edition of the
Ring-tum Phi next Wednesday.

New Proposals Are Advanced To Halt Civil War

(Continued from page 2)
sibility, although a let’s-go-abroad-
and-draft-Goldwater movement is
not an impossibility. The traditional
lunatic fringe in the South, a small
but militant group, would probably
demand that the Southern Nominat-
ing Convention pick an extremist
such as Leroy Collins or Estes Ke-
fauver, but this minority would
probably be met by boos and jeers.

Students of the secessionist theory
point out that Gov. Ernest Vandiver,
if he survives Georgia’s current
school crisis, is a strong choice for
Secretary of the Army or a lesser
choice for Ambassador to Nigeria.
Gov. Faubus will be a shoo-in for
the position of Secretary of Health,
Education, and Welfare.

Upton’s Sinclair’s The Jungle has
been selling well in the South this
year, and public reaction is demand-
ing a new cabinet position, a secre-
tary of Pure Food. Both Herman
Talmadge and Harry Byrd have been
mentioned for this post if the posi-
tion is created.

The secessionist policy of the En-
terprise is only one solution which
has been offered to end the Civil
War. Actually, there is little danger
that the Centennial will provoke
more animosity than few words of

 

McHenry Praises Fauber
(Continued from page 3)
Mary.

His two high games, point-wise,
were against Chattanooga and
Sewanee against whom he scored
22 and 21 points, respectively.

McHenry gave a good appraisal
of Fauber, “Bip not only is scoring
1l points a game and rebounding
very well, but also is playing ter-
rific defense.

 

disdain for the second Appomatox,
the 1954 Supreme Court decision.

Perhaps it would be better to forget
the Civil War, but the rash of Civil
War books (250) in the last year
makes this rather unlikely. Between
announcements of publication there
is usually a truce, but then someone
like Robert Benchley writes, “If
Sandy Pendleton Had Been Drinking
At Appomatox,” and the whole thing
starts all over again.

 

University Obligated

To Decorate IBM Cards
(Continued from page 2)

65 shall be given an increasing
number of minuses up to 15. Any
grade below 65 will be an un-
adorned C, the sterility of the bare
letter symbolizing the lack of in-
tellectual activity on the part of
the recipient, but still keeping
him in good with the industries
that like the simple things in life.

This system, I believe, will succeed
in raising the level of scholarship,
bring increased prestige to our hal-
lowed halls, give the IBM machine
some fresh food for thought, and
provide some great copy for con-
founding freshmen when the new
catalogs are published and Fresh-
man Camp speeches are written.

For these reasons I ask for the
consideration of those in charge and
for the endorsement of the Tuesday
edition.

Letter To Editor Continued
(Continued from page 2)

are plotting to overthrow the E.C.
O yes, “the South is on the defensive
and the agressive forces are in per-
suit.” “Persuit” indeed! Can’t even
spell. Maybe a little “persuit” is
order for the Tuesday edition, spur-
red by the “agressive forces,” (mean-
ing the rest of the world) back to
Journalism 101 for some principles in
newspaper ethics and plain common
sense—and maybe some help in spel-
ling, too.
Sincerely,
H. SLATER

 

Editorial In 19th Century
(Continued from page 2)

Although personally I am a be-
liever in integration, it is not the pur-
pose of this article to demand that
all segregation cease immediately
and the federal troops be called out
tomorrow. But, it is my purpose
to urge every student here at Wash-
ington and Lee to clear his mind
of this paralyzing sentimentality and
self-pity and make an honest effort
to face the problem fairly and with-
out personal prejudice.

 

 

Hamric and Sheridan
JEWELERS
Watch and Jewelry Repair
Hand Engraving and Class Rings
HO 3-2022

 

 

 

 

he ate ate ae ale ate ae ake he teats
Ree Te ee eee

 

ROBERT E. LEE
BARBERSHOP

David M. Moore

3
‘
*
4
4
4
’
q Proprietor
:

 

Ce
a Tae at ae a a ae ee

ate te he he he ae Be Be he he Be Be Be ee
eS Se

 

 

Morhe rhe eGo rferfe rhe ne feof oho ofe oe ofe oe ode fe ofe ole fe ole fe ofe ole
CALL BY NUMBER
and Save Time

LEXINGTON
TELEPHONE CoO.

Me rterlerberberfeofeotesdete fede ofe

   
  
 

fore rderfe sfonde ofenfesfeoge

 

 

 

ee

HICKMAN’S ESSO

South Main Street
HO 3-2024

ee ee ee ee

 

usiness
usiness
IERER’S

PHARMACY

 

 

 

rrr Tree

Waggy’s Jewelers
35 S. Main Street
Phone HO 3-4121

THE HOME OF QUALITY

 

hee en

 

ll i A A A i el ln nln nth tet i

 

 

 

 

 

“IT’S HERE-IF YOU WANT TO WORK FOR IT”

Even before Ron Spetrino received his engi-
neering degree from Case he had good job offers
from six companies.

He joined The Ohio Bell Telephone Company
—his reason: “I was convinced an engineer could
go further here—if he was willing to work for it.”

As soon as Ron got his feet on the ground
in telephone engineering, he was tapped for a

tough assignment.

The job—to engineer switch-

ing equipment modifications needed to prepare
Cleveland for nationwide customer dialing of long

distance calls.

Ron wrapped it up in five months, and found
he had earned a shot at another tough assignment.
In this job Ron helped engineer a completely new
long distance switching center for Cleveland. This
switching center connected Cleveland with the

nationwide customer dialing network.

It was

about a year later that Ron put the finishing

 

gent, positive and imaginative men we
can possibly find.”

FREDERICK R. KAPPEL, President

American Telephone & Telegraph Co,

touches on the specs for this $1,600,000 project.
Today, as a Supervising Engineer, Ron heads

a staff of five engineers and

is responsible for

telephone switching in much of the greater

Cleveland area.

He supervises the design and purchase of $3
million worth of equipment a year. And even
more important, he is charged with developing
the technical and managerial skills of his staff.

Ron knows what he’s talking about when he
says, “In this business you have to do more than
a good job. We expect a man to be a self-developer.
We expect him to take responsibility from his
first day on the job and think for himself. You
don’t get ahead around here by just doing time.”

If you want a job in which
chance to prove yourself, and

you're given every
real responsibility

right from the start—you’ll want to see your Place-
ment Office for further information.

“Our number one aim is to have in all
management jobs the most vital, intelli-

BELL TELEPHONE

 

COMPANIES

 

 

 

 

 
 

FRIDAY
Edition

Che KRing-tum Phi

Washington and Lee Semi-Weekly Newspaper

FRIDAY
Edition

 

Volume LXI

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA, JANUARY 27, 1961

Number 30

 

Trudy Carlin, Chestnut Hills
With Chip Day

 

Carol Cummings
With Ned Ames

 

Sue Benton, Longwood
With George Birdsong

 

Carole Freedmon, American U.
With Steve Danzansky

Mary Ann Pondrom, Hollins
With Don Rhinesmith

Ellis Beasley, Sweet Briar
With Jim Applebaum

Fancy Oress all Opens Conight

 

Dr. William A. Jenks
Recipient of Fellowship

Research Study Grant

The Social Science Research Coun-
cil has given a Washington and Lee
University professor a $6,000 grant
for a year’s study in Austria.

Dr. William A. Jenks was named
by the New York Organization as
the recipient of its maximum grant
under the group’s research fellow-
ship program. Dr. Jenks will do
the major portion of his research in
Vienna.

The Washington and Lee Board of
Trustees in a recent meeting ap-
proved the 43-year-old professor’s
leave of absence from the faculty
beginning in September. He will re-
turn to teaching here in September,
1962.

The grant was awarded to Dr.
Jenks for his proposal to initiate an
independent study of the operation
of parliamentary democracy in Aus-
tria from 1907 to 1914. Most of his
work in Vienna for the coming year
will be concerned with a detailed
appraisal of the effects of the elec-
torial reform of 1905-1907 upon the
last years of the Austrian half of
the Habsburg Monarchy. This ma-
terial will serve as a basis for the
long-range parliamentary study.

Dr. Jenks is the author of two
books on Austrian government en-
titled The Austrian Electorial Re-
form of 1907 (published in 1950) and
Vienna and the Young Hitler (pub-
lished in 1960).

The Social Science Research
Council is a national organization
composed of seven learned societies.

A member of the Washington and
Lee faculty since 1946, Dr. Jenks re-
ceived his B.A. degree from the uni-
versity in 1939. He obtained his M.A.
and Ph.D. degrees from Columbia
University in 1940 and 1949 respec-
tively. A native of Jacksonville,
Fla., he is a member of P.B.K.

From 1942 to 1945, Dr. Jenks served
in the Army-Air Force and the Of-
fice of Strategic Services. In 1954-55,
he studied in Austria under the aus-
pices of the Fund for the Advance-
ment of Education and the Fulbright
program.

 

Brothers Four, The Tommy Dorsey Orchestra, Dukes Of Dixieland,
House Combos, All Headline This Year’s Snowy Mid-Winter Gala

By R. ROY GOODWIN
Asst. Managing’ Editor

“The South’s most outstanding
collegiate social event,” better known
as Washington and Lee’s Fancy Dress
Weekend, officially opens this afer-
noon for the fifty-second time since
1907.

A whirlwind of events begins this
afternoon at 4:30 p.m. at the May-
flower Inn, when the Phi Gamma
Delta Fraternity honors Fancy Dress!
President Don Partington with a
cocktail party. Headling this after-
noon’s party will be the appearance

 

SCHEDULE

Cocktail Party, Friday afternoon,
4:30-6:30 p.m. Phi Gamma Delta
honors Fancy Dress President
Don Partington. Music by The
Brothers Four. Mayflower Inn,
conventional dress required.

2. Fancy Dress Ball, Friday night.
Doors open at 8 p.m., close at 9
p.m. for presentation of the figure.
Doors will reopen at 9:30 p.m.,
and continuous dancing until 1 a.m.
Music by the Tommy Dorsey Or-
chestra, with Warren Covington
conducting.

3. Concert, Saturday afternoon
from 3 p.m.-5 p.m., Doremus Gym-
nasium. Music by the Dukes of
Dixieland. Conventional dress re-
quired.

4, Formal Dance, Saturday night
from 9:00 p.m. until midnight.
Music by Jerry Wald and his or-
chestra.

 

of the Brothers Four, making their
debut performance at Washington
and Lee’s Fancy Dress.

The fifty-second Fancy Dress Ball,
which is accepted as W&L’s most
extravagant annual event, opens
tonight at 8 p.m. in Doremus Gym-
nasium.

The highlight of any dance week-
end at W&L is the dance figure. This |
year’s figure, from all reports, prom-

 

| couples depicting principal charac-

 

Cherry Gorham, Longwood
With Don Partington

ises to be “bigger and better” than
ever before.

The theme for the 1961 Ball is
“Shakespeare in the Court of King
James.”

Doremus Gymnasium will be dec-
orated along the lines of the famed
Globe Theatre. Included in the dec-
orations will be a royal box, bal-
conies, columns, a raised stage and
workable curtains. The flags of var-
ious houses of English nobility will
hang from the ceiling of the gym-
nasium.

Featured in the figure this year,
which begins at 9 p.m., will be 25

ters from Hamlet, King Lear, Mer-
chant of Venice, Anthony and Cleo-
patra, Henry IV and Julius Caesar.

Students who wish to see the
figure, and who are not in costume,
will have to wear formal dress to

 

be admitted to the Ball, University
Dance Board President Jimmy Vann |
said today.

Students and dates in the figure |
include members of the University’s

 

The Brothers Four will appear at today's cocktail party given by Phi Gamma Delta Fraternity.

 

dance board, some fraternity presi-
dents, members of the student execu-
tive committee and the president and
six vice presidents of the Fancy
Dress Ball.

Dance set president Don Parting-
ton, a Phi Gam senior from Cul-
peper, Va., and his date, Miss Cherry
Roth Gorham, also of Culpeper and
a senior at Longwood College, will
lead the figure. They will be dressed
as King James and Queen Anne.

The six vice presidents and their
dates will represent a number of
Shakespeare’s characters. Stephen
Danzansky, a ZBT senior from
Washington will escort Miss Carol
Freedmon, a sophomore at American
University. They will depict Julius
Caesar and Calpurnia.

Don Rhinesmith, a Phi Gam sen-
ior from Williamsburg, Va., will
escort Miss Mary Ann Pondrom, of
Dallas, Texas, a senior at Hollins
College. They will portray Bassanio
and Portia from The Merchant of
Venice.

Escorting Miss Sue Benton, a grad-
uate of Longwood College from Suf-
folk, will be George Birdsong, S.A.E.
senior also from Suffolk. They will
depict Hotspur and Lady Percy
from Henry IV.

Depicting King Lear and Cordelia
will be Edward A. Ames, a Delt
senior from Accomac, Va., who will
escort Miss Carol Cummings, a
sophomore at Hollins College. She
is from Indianapolis.

Escorting Miss Ellis Beasley, a
sophomore at Sweet Briar, will be
Jim Applebaum, a PEP from Flush-
ing, N. Y. They will depict Anthony
and Cleopatra.

Chip Day, a Phi Gam senior from
North Plainfield, N. J., will escort
Miss Trudy Carlin, a student at
Chestnut Hills College. They will de-
pict Hamlet and Ophelia.

A highlight of the figure will be
the appearance of W&L’s Dr. Fitz-
gerald Flournoy, a_ professor of

| English and a Shakespearian schol-

ar, who will portray Shakespeare
himself.

 

The University’s John Graham
Brass Choir will play during the
colorful figure.

Three students and their dates
will follow behind each vice presi-
dent and will represent characters
from the six Shakespearean plays.

Music for the Ball will be provided
by Warren Covington who will con-
duct the famed Tommy Dorsey Or-
chestra.

From three to five Saturday after-
noon the Dukes of Dixieland will

 

DANCE RULES

1. All W&L dances are free from
alcoholic beverages and the ef-
fect thereof.

2. Smoking is prohibited at all
times while on dance floor, in
balcony, or in area around ath-
letic offices.

3. General conduct shall con-
form to the accepted standards of
good taste.

4. Penalty for violations will be
removal from the Gymnasium and
exclusion from all dances for one
calendar year.

5. On Friday night only those
who wear costumes will be allowed
on the dance floor. Those who ob-
serve from the balcony must be
formally attired.

6. The dance Saturday night is
formal, and only those who are
dressed formally will be allowed on
the dance floor.

7. No beverages (soft-drinks or
otherwise) may be carried from
the basement of the gym.

 

present a concert in Doremus Gym-
nasium. Conventional dress will be
required.

Making their second appearance
at W&L, the Dukes are expected to
render some of the hottest Dixieland
jazz ever heard. Among their more

popular records are “You Have To}

(Continued on page 4)

e

 

 

Wife Of Artist Will
Discuss Medieval Art
Here On Wednesday

The wife of an artist who is cur-
rently exhibiting his work in the
duPont Art Gallery on the Washing-
ton and Lee University campus will
lecture at the university Wednes-
day on medieval art.

Mrs. Louise Blair Daura, wife of
Spanish-born artist Pierre Daura
of nearby Rockbridge Baths, will
center her 8 p.m. talk around the
theme, “A Medieval Pilgrimage.”
She will appear in duPont Auditor-
ium under the auspices of the uni-
versity’s department of fine arts.

A native of Richmond, Mrs. Daura
plans to discuss what the pilgrim
of medieval days—who made the
great pilgrimages to Rome and Jeru-
salem—would have seen had he
journeyed to Santiago de Com-
postella in her husband’s native
Spain. Her lecture will include ex-
amples of the interchange of influ-
ence of French and Spanish trends
in art and architecture.

Mrs. Daura’s lecture comes in the
fourth week of her husband’s exhi-
bition of painting and sculpture he
has done since 1928.

The artist’s wife is a graduate of
Bryn Mawr College and she has
studied at the University of Vienna
and Aillience Francaise in Paris.

“My friends at Hollins College and
other places have told me of Mrs.
Daura’s lectures and how fascinating
they are,” Dr. Marion Junkin, chair-
man of Washington and Lee’s depart-
ment of fine arts said. “Anyone in-
terested in Medieval art should be
sure to hear her.”

Pierre Daura’s exhibition, his first
at the university, opened January
5. More than 1,200 persons have
visited the gallery to see the 75
works on display. The exhibition is
scheduled to be taken down Feb-
ruary 11, after being held over one
week by popular request.

“The Daura show has been the most
popular and the most sucecssful ex-
hibition—from the standpoint of at-
tendance and sales—in the history of
' duPont Gallery,” Dr. Junkin said.

 

 

The Dukes of Dixieland will play at the Saturday afternoon concert from 3-5 p.m.
Page 2

THE RING.

TUM PHI

 

Che Ring-tum Phi

Friday Edition

Member of Virginia Intercollegiate Press Association

 

Welcome To

The Friday Staff of the Ring-tum Phi wishes to extend to
all of you a sincere welcome to the 52nd annual Fancy Dress
Ball. We are glad you were able to come to Washington and
Lee for this occasion and we hope you find it to be a pleasant

weekend.

We are especially proud of Fancy Dress. It has done much

to put W&L on the collegiate

half-century long history of the Fancy Dress Ball at least two
magazines and two radio networks have given the Ball coverage.
And the New York Times once labeled Fancy Dress as “The

South’s outstanding collegiate social event.”

Fancy Dress weekend is a

alumni of the University. From the crowds that gather at the
dances the number of strangers that “‘pad-out”’ in the fraternity
houses, we are inclined to say FD is as big attraction as Home-
comings or a Mock Convention.

So we welcome you to the Ball. To the girls from all over
the country who have traveled to Lexington to relieve the bore-
dom of mid-winter and the depression that invariably follows
exams we say welcome. To the students from Harvard, UNC,
neighboring VMI and the University of Florida we say wel-
come. And especially to our friends from that school across the
mountain we say welcome; just remember we will see you at
Mid-Winters in a couple of weeks.

Fancy Dress

map. At various times in the

mecca for many friends and

—G. E. H.

 

Have Typewriter, Will Write

Rules Laid For F-D Gurls:
Smoke, Drink, And Cuss

By THORNS CRAVEN
Friday Columnist

Now that the appetizer has been
disposed of, most of us are by this
time half way through the main
course. Credit
should be given to
the University for
scheduling exams
just before Fancy
Dress the way
they do. It sure
gives us a chance
to keep things in
their proper per-
spective, and not
go overboard buy-
ing booze for two
weeks before
things get started.

And since this issue of the paper
is coming out at a pretty inoppor-
tune time, I’m going to switch my
message to another audience. Since
few students will be able to read
this, and the few able won't any-
way, I’m going to address my remarks
this week to the people who will
read them—the first-time-at-W&L-
and/or-Fancy Dress-Girl.

   

Craven

Well, girls, you’ve survived the
cocktail party, and that means that
you're off to a good start. But don’t
think that you’re a success yet.
You’ve got two days to go, and
for the uninitiated that could mean
two days filled with faux pas after
faux pas. For your help, then, I’ve
compiled a little list of Fancy Dress
Ground Rules. Heed them closely
and you'll be invited back again
and again. Disregard them and you'll
talk to the house mother for hours
on end.

I. Drink and smoke at all times.
This must be done with skill, how-
ever, for nothing is worse than a
sloppy drinking smoker, unless it’s
a sloppy smoking drinker. To do
both skillfully requires that you
hold drink and pipe in one hand,
leaving the other free for another
drink and a cigar or something
cute.

2. Use an occasional profane word.
This again must be done skillfully,
with a logical succession of words.
For example, never say “Go to damn
hell,” say “Damn, go to hell.”

3. Don’t play “do-you-know” with
your date’s fraternity brothers.
Naturally they know, and they as-
sume that you know they know.
Hence you should assume that they
know and you know they know.
Therefore, you know, they know,
ergo, play not.

4. Be bored with crowds. Above
all, don’t get excited unless he does.
Let him think that these sort of
things go on all the time at Miss
Pinkingham’s Jr. College for Finish-
ing Girls, and that you thought W&L
would be different.

5. At the concert remember that
the Dukes of Dixieland are pleasant,
but not authentic. Smile, but don’t
pat your feet. And don’t sing the
words to “When the Saints Go
Marchin’ In.”

6. As you go from house to house,
carry your date’s drink. He will
get in trouble if caught, and all
you'll get is a smile.

 

7. Avoid walking on campus side-
walks unless you can ski. Campus
tradition dictates that snow should
be packed firmly instead of being
removed, then covered with water
in order to make a good slick sur-
face for sliding to class and injur-
ing tourists.

8. Don’t laugh at jokes in the
Southern Collegian. Comment on
how inane, passe, and ridiculous the
cartoons are. Besides that they all
come from back issues. This is im-
portant. Make some clever disparag-
ing remarks and you're sure to|
score. |

9. Comment on what asses the boys
from other schools are whenever you
have the chance. Use concrete ex-
amples by pointing to fights, passed-
out drunks, ete. This will rate you
highly.

10. Finally, keep quiet on Sunday.
It isn’t that your conversation isn’t |
wanted, it just isn’t appreciated.
Keep still, drink your tomato juice,
eat your scrambled eggs, and read
the funnies to yourself.

| Times labeled the Ball the “South’s

 

That should do it. The above are
really helpful hints, and if you abide

by them you should be a success. |

Unless you’re a flop to begin with.

Then even the rules can’t help.
But I trust there aren’t any flops |
who made it past the cocktail party,| ing for the banning of this movie

so have a good time girls. The
W&L gentleman will prevail.

| lon Brando. The film review’s reason-

W&L’s Fancy Dress 52 Years Old;
School Librarian Was Its Founder

By GEORGE HONTS

Managing Editor
Once a year this quiet little town
known as Lexington comes alive
with activity as students from all
over the country converge on it for
the “outstanding social event of the
year in the South’—the Washington

and Lee Fancy Dress Ball.

This year’s trip to the Court of
St. James marks the 52nd occurance
of the Fancy Dress Ball.

Our files tell us that the Fancy
Dress Ball was born in boredom
back in 1907. The school librarian
then, Miss Annie Jo White, decided |
to give a costume party to relieve
the boredom of Lexington winters.
She should see this one.

Miss White gave the original call |
that has been echoed every year;
since then, except one, when she.
was “disappointed by the lack of|
student response.”

By 1909 a weaker character would
have given in and stopped trying to
present a Ball, which, from the ac-
counts we gather, wasn’t really much
of a ball at all. But she stuck with
it.

 

In 1916 the Ball was moved from |
the old skating rink to that great}
edifice known as Doremus Gymna-
sium and the Ball took on more
character. It improved in popularity
too.

Our heroine, to whom we are
grateful for this occasion, turned over
the management of the Fancy Dress
Ball to the students in 1920. Miss
White said the affair was getting too
big for her to handle.

The Roarin’ Twenties was a great
decade for W&L. In 1924 John Davis
ran, and lost to Coolidge, for the
presidency. That was the year the
Mock Convention took on real
status, too, because it took a long
shot and nominated Davis.

But the crowning achievement,
social-wise anyway, of the decade
was the 1928 Fancy Dress Ball. One
thousand persons squeezed on to
the dance floor to do the Charles-
ton and four hundred more (prob-
ably wall-flowers) watched from
the sidelines.

It was in 1928 that the New York

 

most outstanding collegiate social
event.”

From then on the Ball rose in fame,
following the great American tradi-
tion of getting bigger and bigger,
better and better, and offering more
and more.

Back in 1932 “A Garden Fete at
Mount Vernon” was offered as a
celebration of the 200th anniversary
of George Washington’s birth. Mrs.
L. J. Desha, wife of W&L’s chemis-
try professor emeritus, presented the
honors that year and declared that
only the Mardi Gras (of New Orleans)
was a greater spectacle than the
Fancy Dress Ball.

The great bands of the day swung
out in the ’30’s. Eddie Duchin, Jan

 

Garber, Bernie Cummings were

 

FANCY DRESS OF TODAY: Warren Covington will con-
duct the Tommy Dorsey Orchestra at tonight’s gala event.

among the favorites that played here.

The swingingest Ball of the mod-
ern era was in 1958. Look Magazine
reporters and photographers cov-
ered the dance while NBC’s Mon-
itor tuned in on a nationwide hook-
up. Buddy Morrow and the Am-
bassador of Good Will, Louis
‘Sachmo’ Armstrong made _ the
weekend complete.

1938—Miss Annie White, who had
not missed a Ball in the 31 years
since she created it, was chosen
Queen of Fancy Dress. And Life
Magazine did a three-page cover on
the dance.

In 1940, as the nation hung on the
edge of tragedy, Fancy Dress grew '

 

to maturity. CBS carried the festivi-'

 

ties coast to coast as the students
danced to the theme of the original
running of the Kentucky Derby.
Much to the delight of several visit-
ing Derby dignitaries, Kay Keyser
belted out “My old Kentucky Home.”

In the twenty years since then the
Fancy Dress Ball has not lost one
iota of popularity. Top name bands
still are attracted to the affiar, and
one of the school’s most cherished
honors is to be president of Fancy
Dress.

So Fancy Dress Ball progresses into
its second half-century of existence.
It’s hard to predict that the social
life of colleges in 2007 will be like.
But we'll bet that, if dances still
exist, the ‘07 FD Ball will be one
Miss Annie White could be proud of.

 

Film, The Wild One, Banned In England: To Be Here Shortly;
Ketcham Looks At Problem Of Censorship In Motion Pictures

By ROBERT C. KETCHAM
Friday Columnist

It is interesting to note that Eng-
land has a National Board which
is set up to review films before they
are shown. However, there is only one
instance of a film being refused per-
mission. That film, interestingly
enough, will be in Lexington within
the week. The Wild One with Mar-

was thet it could stimulate the
Teddy Boys and other delinquents

 

to carry out a similar feat. The Eng-
lish have a definite problem with
this sort of thing and I believe their
reasoning was valid.

Our founding fathers were deter-
mined that expression should be
unfettered by any official regula-
tion. It is significant that that free-
dom was established as a fundamen-
tal law in the First Amendment to
the Constitution. If they did not mean
expression to be absolutely free
they at least meant to give it the
largest freedom that could reason-

 

ably be achieved.

If it was to be punishable it was
by a due process trial as set out
in the Near decision, “It is no long-
er open to doubt that the liberty
of the press, and of speech, is with-
in the liberty safeguarded by the
due process clause of the Fourteenth
Amendment from invasion by state
action.”

In the early history of the film
as a media the Supreme Court dif-
ferentiated it from other forms of
communication. When any fledgling

 

Jon McLin Travels To Spain On Vacation;
Considers Points Of Interest And Politics

By JON McLIN
In Oxford

“The only way to cure a wanderlust
is to wander.” Carroll Cloar

The arrival of Christmas vacation
at Oxford—which began on Decem-
ber 3—found many students with a
wanderlust, and almost as many
trying the above cure for it. Foreign
students—and we Americans es-
pecially—take advantage of the prox-
imity of the Continent during the
long British vacations, which last
six weeks each Christmas and Easter
and 3% months in the summer.

For most British students vaca-
tions are not so welcome, because
for them it is a time to return to
homes where they enjoy less freedom
than at Oxford and to do—perhaps
for the first time—some serious
work, academic and/or commercial.

The range of vacation travels of
American Oxonians is almost un-
limited. As one of them said, “The
best thing about Oxford is those trips
to the continent.” During the “short”
vacations few get further afield than
Germany or northern Italy; never-
theless, some sun-chasers venture as
far as Rome, Greece, or Spanish
Morocco.

During the longer summer vaca-
tion, wider vistas open. More and
more visits have been made to Rus-
sia recently—Peter Dawkins, for in-
stance, made the trip last summer—
and trips to Africa are being talked

 

about more and more. The latter

are in keeping with what has been
called “African Year” at Oxford by
one of the student pundits, as a re-
sult of the tremendous interest shown
in Africa in a hundred or more ways.
A smaller number of students are
beginning now the attempts to get
| the necessary visas from the coun-
tries of Eastern Europe in order to
travel there during the summer.
Additional possibilities are made
aveilable through the equivalents of
the National Union of Students in

 

|
; student hostels, where room and
board are quite cheap, organized
tours, study courses, and reduced
travel rates to students of any coun-
try who produce the necessary NUS
card. Examples of the services pro-
vided are language courses in Stras-
bourg and Munich where room,
board, and tuition in French and/or
German is provided for 10 weeks
for about $200.

Among the most popular vacation
spots this Christmas were ski resorts
in Switzerland and Austria, where
ski enthusiasts enjoyed the rare
combination of good weather, good
skiing conditions, lively night life,
and low prices. Among the various
ski parties from Oxford were several
which provided transportation, room
and board and tuition for two weeks
for about $100.

Many others, including me, ven-
tured to Spain in search of the warm
sun, which will be conspicuously ab-

 

| the various countries. They offer!

sent from Oxford this winter. The
consensus is that we were well re-
warded for the distance we had to
travel.

First stop on my Spanish itinerary,
after brief stays in London and Paris
en route, was Barcelona, the largest
city in Spain and the largest on the
Mediterranean. It was a happy choice,
as it turned out, because the western,
not-thoroughly-Spanish atmosphere
of Barcelona provided an easy tran-
sition to the more different customs
of the real Spain.

Barcelona was made memorable

by the acquaintance of a young stu-
dent of flamenco dancing, who took
us to see an outstanding perform-
ance of that art as well as to one
of his own lessons. It was also
through his guidance that we were
able to see some of the less con-
spicuous, but more typical, parts of
old Barcelona.
It was here also that we first dis-
covered the low prices which we
were to enjoy everywhere in Spain.
We found accommodations in a pen-
sion in the center of the city where
for room, continental breakfast, 4-
course lunch, and 5-course dinner
we each paid about $1.50 a day.
Other examples of these prices are
30c for a delicious meal in a very
good restaurant, and 10c for a liter of
| table wine.

A 12-hour wait between trains in
| Madrid allowed time for little more
than a whirlwind tour of the Prado

 

 

Museum—which houses the great
collections of El Greco, Velasquez and
Goya—and of downtown Madrid, in-
cluding the Royal Palace. The latter,
whose gardens are still beautifully
kept, is strangely quiet and aban-
doned, as it awaits the return to
monarchy which it is understood
Franco will effect at his death.

Another overnight train ride
through the Sierra Nevada and past
Toledo and Granada and we were in
Malaga in the colorful and thourgh-
ly Spanish province of Andalusia.
It was near Malaga, in a village that
is a winter haven of vacationing
Spanish, Swedes, English, and Amer-
icans that we settled for three weeks
of work(?). Among the notable parts
of our stay there was a celebration
of Christmas in the Spanish fashion,
ie. with bullfights on the first and
last days of Christmas and gift-
giving on Epiphany.

Apart from the beautiful country
and the generally low prices, the
most salient characteristics of the
country were the extreme friendli-
ness and helpfulness of its people
and the rather astonishing extent
to which police practices were in ef-
fect. Members of the militia, or “civil
guard,” were to be seen everywhere,
and Spanish citizens’ passes were
checked on every train trip, even
internally.

For a long time, our efforts to
find a Spaniard willing to discuss

 

(Continued on page 4)

form of expression has long since
grown up it deserves to be treated
as any other media. Nevertheless,
Justice Clark said in the Times case
that the movies are not necessarily
subject to the same rules that govern
other means of communication.

Should Be Special

With this I cannot agree. As was
pointed out by the dissent, the de-
cision “presents a real danger of
eventual censorship for every form
of communication be it newspapers,
journals, books, magazines, televi-
sion, radio or public speeches.”

The Supreme Court decision
handed down last Monday places
censorship in a high position hereto-
fore deemed unlikely. The case in
issue is the Times Film Corp case
involving a film known as Don Juan
which was not allowed to be shown
in Chicago.

This decision gives approval to
forms of prior restraint such as
that practiced in Chicago. There a
film can be exhibited to the pub-
lic only if the Police Commission-
er or some person designated by
him gives approval. This scheme, in
effect, is to give licence to a method
of prior restraint which by logical
inference could be carried over to
books, news media and even
speeches.

A Supreme Court opinion handed
down in 1931 was thought to remove

(Continued on page 4)

Che Ring-tum Phi

Friday Edition

The Ring-tum Phi is published Tues-
day and Friday during the college year.
It is printed oy. the Journalism Labor-
Cory Press, ashington and Lee Uni-
versity. The mailing address is Box
899, Lexington, Va,

Entered as second class matter Sep-
tember 20, 1946 at the Post Office, Lex-
ington, Va., under the act of March
aie

ational Advertising Representative:
The National Advertisers Service, Inc.,
420 Madison Ave., New York, N.Y.

 

Editor-in-Chief................ Nathan Simpson
Business Manager.............. Huntley Biggs
Editorial Board
Managing Hditor................ George Honts

Assistant Managing Editor..................
..Roy Goodwin

 

  
  
  
 

News Editor... Andy Nea
Sports Editor. Bill Cotman
Associate Editor .Tom Rains
SB eee Tom Jordan

Advertising Manager
Circulation Manager
Office Manager

Edward Holmes
Peter Agelesto
Don McFall

 
 

THE RING-TUM PHI

Page 3

 

IT’S TIME FOR 14-GAME ROAD LOSING STRING TO END

 

Cagers King At Home, But On Road--It’s Another Tale

It’s been 14 long games _ since
Washington and Lee’s basketball
team has won on the road.

But coach Bob McHenry isn’t es-
pecially worried. In fact, he will
smile and remind you that W&L’s
road win over Randolph-Macon in
1958 was the Generals’ only victory
that year.

At home W&L is king (it has

both of these wins were at home.

they can win at home. Now McHenry

won 11 of its last 14 home games), ET ons ayssecicssssssscjoiseriaqnesreesen nits
but on the road it is nothing but PURGE aaassssscecsssssesosvonssosscecszscnssonnsessszzs
a pawn that its opponents move at PRGA casisccissssssnrsseeonriesrseeernsaess
will. NEGO WEE seers secsissssscsssvossososesvsseononeesenanes
Just before the mid-year exam Besa those sis cssiccsssssscsssssvcesesnsssessasessiz

break, McHenry’s starting five—a

The Generals have proved oe

junior, three sophomores, and a
freshman—showed signs of becom-
ing a good basketball club. In suc-

 

cessive games, the Generals rapped’ get their first crack at the road losing handed Randolph-Macon’s

thinks it time they started winning |
| also remembers that in its next game

on the road.
Next Saturday the Generals will

McHenry remembers Washington
and Lee’s 12-point win over Hamp-

Thackston, Fauber Pace W&L Scoring

G FG FF TP AYE.
seaeanssoes ll 56 43 155 14.1
saisiniee ll 45 37 127 11.5
scanbanaoes Ss & 18 86 10.7
rau > © 15 17 8.6
sans ll 22 x 55 5.0

den-Sydney at Lexington, but he

| this same Hampden-Sydney team
Little

 

W&L’s Lee McLaughlin Earns

Va. Coach Of The Year Award

{
Lee McLaughlin, Washington and| was 0-8-0. The next year it was | teams there. His overall record was

Lee’s head football coach, is Vir-| 1-7-0.

ginia’s College Coach of the Year.

The _always smiling McLaughlin,| making progress as the Generals
who piloted Washington and Lee tO) posted a 3-4-1 season. All three
its first undefeated season in 46) wins were one-sided as the Generals

years last year, was named Virginia thumped Centre, 45-8; rocked Dick- |

Coach of the Year by the Portsmouth

inson, 42-14; and hammered Wash-
Sports Club.

But by 1959, McLaughlin was

| 52-21-7.

His four-year record at Washing-
ton and Lee is only 12-19-1, but he
certainly deserves the Virginia Col-
lege Coach of the Year award for
his undefeated season of 1960 and
the many long, hard hours he has

 

|
|

Hampden-Sydney, 79-67, and edged, string since before Christmas when| Eight powerhouse its first loss. Still |
Bridgewater, 68-63. But as usual) they meet Hampden-Sydney’s hot} McHenry is confident that W&L can
| and cold Tigers at Hampden-Sydney. | win its first away game in two years

next Saturday.

The W&L coach credits the Gen-
erals’ last two victories to “balance |

| and defense.” He points out that since |

Defense was the key to our win
over Hampden-Sydney at Lexing-
ton,” McHenry said. “They have a
very good offense and they will
run away with you if your defense
has an off night.”

When the clubs meet for the!

 

but it was Hampden-Sydney’s Achil-
les heel.

The Generals have a good chance
of snapping its 14-game road loss
string next Saturday but if they
don’t, McHenry will still smile and

Christmas W&L has had “good of-| second time next Saturday, again | remind you that the road win over
fense, good rebounding, and excep-| defense should be the deciding fac-| Randolph-Macon was W&L’s only

tionally good defense.”

tor. Defense is W&L’s strong point, |

victory in 1958.

 

 

Crack Maryland Swimmers

Crush WGL,

Maynard, 6 Terrapins Set Pool Records

2:14.1

Co-Captain Jim Parker had a fine
afternoon as he captured two firsts.

The Washington and Lee tankmen
played host to the Terrapins from
the University of Maryland in Dore-|

 

|
|

mus Gymnasium on Friday, January | y, the 50-yd. freestyle, he upset the |

13, and it — proved _- 8M| favored Maryland swimmer with a
unlucky day for the Generals. time of 22.5 seconds. This was only

Maryland’s crack swimming unit! 3 of a second off the present record. |

ae through | with Ss 65-30 win, Terrapin Art Flemming broke the
while highlighting their performance 200-yd. butterfly record with a win-

pool record as he breezed home in
2:10.1. The. Generals’ Herb Jahncke
placed third in this event, yet still
managed to break the existing
W&L pool record.

The Terrapin 440-yd. medley relay

(Continued on page 4)

 

 

with six new pool records.

Maryland’s Al Greenberg was the
only double winner for the Terra-
pins, yet he managed to set two
new pool records. His time in the
220-yd. freestyle was 2:12.9, while
his second record time was 5:14.4 in
the 440-yd. freestyle.

The Generals’ lone pool record
was set by Elliott Maynard, as he
knocked off 5.3 seconds from his
former record in the 200-yd. breast

McLaughlin will be honored at
the sports club’s annual jamboree
February 4. Weeb Eubank, head
coach of the Baltimore Colts, will
be the principal speaker.

In his four short years at Wash-
ington and Lee, McLaughlin has

 

|

|
|
|

   

LEE MCLAUGHLIN
... Coach of Year

put the W&L football program
back on its feet. When McLaugh-
lin came to W&L in 1957, the Gen-
erals had won one of their last
18 games. In ’57 McLaughlin’s team

 

Radio Hospital
*
Radio, TV, Phonograph
Sales and Service

*
HO 3-3531

ington (St. Louis), 35-26. | spent making football a winning

Last year McLaughlin and the

Generals set their sights on the im- | steofesgesteoteotesteotestestetertestestestecteotestestestentetentects

possible—an undefeated season. | % ’

W&L had had only one undefeated : IDEAL : — Y’S a —
season in its history—1914—and it) * % rescriptions Fille

didn't seem likely that 1960 would|t BARBER SHOP # Immediately

be its second. But as the season | - QUICK SERVICE z PURCHASE DRUGS

wore on, more and more W&L fans | © % HO 3-2211

realized that McLaughlin and the | a spapogeqegeteseoheeedeshbbbbdetebotebee

Generals were creeping closer and |
closer to the impossible goal.

The Generals rolled through their |
first four games with ease, plastering
Centre, 21-6; Dickinson, 23-6; Frank- ,
lin and Marshall, 38-8; and Ran- |
dolph-Macon, 26-3.

Then came the blot on W&L’s'
record—Johns Hopkins tied the
Generals, 8-8, before 3,000 fans at
Wilson Field.

But the tie didn’t upset Mc-
Laughlin and his Generals. They
steamed on to victories over
Hampden-Sydney (14-7); Carnegie
Tech (6-0); Sewanee (32-8); and
Washington of St. Louis (28-9).

McLaughlin, a graduate of the
University of Virginia and an ex-
Green Bay Packer, came to Wash-
ington and Lee from Episcopal
High School, Washington, D.C. For
eight years he produced winning

fe oteoete ote oteeeteoteoteogeobeseogeotesteteotectesteatectected

Try our delicious foods
Route 60 East

+

+

+

THE NEW *
+

. +
White Top
+

+

Restaurant :
a

+

* :

:

A personal invitation
to the x
Students =

&

*

+

+

+

TORR ee eee

 

 

 

 

 

ole oe ole oe of ole oe ole fe ole ole fe ole oe ole ole oe ole oe ole oe of feo

“—

sport at W&L again. stroke. His winning time was

 

ning time of 2:06.7, while teammate
Bill Wingate set a new record in
the 200-yd. backstroke.

In the 200-yd. individual medley,
Maryland’s Don Lupin set a new

eres

 

 

%
= R.L. Hess and Bro. =
: JEWELERS :
: Lexington, Virginia i
: HO 3-2833 ps
% *

Merorhorhe he ohe nfo ede oe shee le she fe oe ofeofe se ale oho oe ote ae

For those extra pieces

of
FURNITURE

for your room
see our stock
before buying

cs
VARNER AND POLE

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Open a convenient student Checking account
TODAY

at

Rockbridge National Bank

Member Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation

 

 

 

 

DIXON’S

ESSO SERVICE CENTER
ROUTE 60 EAST IN LEXINGTON

Across from the White Top Resturant
HO 3-4214

Wash, Grease, Lube, Road Service

Charge Accounts Welcome

SOSSHHOHHOSHSHOHHOSESHSSOSSSOSOHSHONOHEHHOOSECESSSEOESE

SSSSSOSSSSOCHOHSSSOSSSSSOCSSSSGesoeseeoseeseeeeeeoser

Finest

Choice

SUNDAY

te ' SSCCCOCHCCOSSSSOSSOSSESOSE

Mgt Ee Ee a OE at ae OE a Me Ee a ee Oe ee

eo Be Se Se Bie ie Sn Bie Bin Be Be Be Be in Be Me ste ae te a Ma Ma Be Ba a a a Be Ba te a Bate

Tere ee eS

he she he she ale she Be Be Be le le le Be te Me Bee

Ted’s Steak House

Ww

Route 60 Buena Vista

*
Maple-Rock Distributors, Inc.

Phone HO 3-2168

Foods
Meats

DINNERS

SOHOOHCHSSOOOHHOHOHOHOHOHHSSESOOOCSHOOOHHHHDOSEEOOOEEE
oho oke ohn fe oho oe oho he se oho ale oe oho oe afe ofe fe oe oe oho fe ae oleae ooo whe afe oe oe ofe ae aoa oe oe ne oe ne oho of fe oe of of

We Feature

SEALTEST

Dairy Products
“To get the best get Sealtest”

over twenty different products in addition to
delicious Sealtest ice cream

Block and Crushed Ice

Your favorite mixes—Ice Cold

Me Me Me ae ole he Me te te te a ta Ba ta Ba Be tha a la Ba a Ba tte tha a a te tha ta a a ta a Be
Se i ie a ie a a i le ee ie ee ee ie ee ee

I a a

 

a

ah
ee ee eee ee

he she she Me she Be she he le she Be Be Be Be Be ae
~wwsseweevewvewerevrwCVrTe

 

ah
“ar Pe at ae PEPE at Ee aE eS a

 

 

The First National Bank

of Lexington
*
has special checking accounts

for students

 

COCO OO OOOO SSO OOOOH OHOCOOOOSOSOOOSSEHOOEOOOEHDO0OO®
FOR ROOM RESERVATIONS—CALL HO 3-2151

LEXINGTON MOTEL
Large Rooms—U, S. 11 By-Pass South
Free TV—Phones—Continental Breakfast
Only Motel in corporate limits of Lexington
SOOHOSOHOOOSSSHSESHSSOHHHHTSSOHOHOSESOHSHOHOOOOOLEOES

 

 

FOREIGN CARS AND

Expert Motor Work

 

OUR SPECIALTY

MAIN STREET MOBIL STATION

STUDEBAKER LARKS

Open 8:00 a.m.—8:00 p.m.

 

The Southern Inn

Cordially invites you to make this your headquarters for good food
Here you get the best food for the most reasonable prices

Our Specialties:

Steaks, Chicken, Country Ham, and the best sandwiches
in town

Meet your friends here

 

 

 

 

i

 

 

THE COLLEGE INN

The Best Food in Town

American and Italian

Catering to the Students, Faculty,
and Towns People

OPEN SUNDAYS

)

 

 

 

 

 

 

PEEEEE EEE EE EEE EL EEE EEE EEE SEES EE ETE E TERE TEE

Shirt Service as You Like it

Quality Cleaning and Pressing

UNIVERSITY CLEANERS
HO 3-3622

*

 

 

(oo

Serle rtonefortertende he oheole she oho ale oke ole oho shoots sfontorteate |

%
%
“Your Campus Neighbors” 3
*
*
+

forte ode ofe ofr ofe ode ode ote ode of obe ere ofa ofe ne fer vbe ode oe ofa ade oleae feof oe oe fe afore deals oe oe ahs ode ate oe oe eof ake

 

 

 

  

STUDENTS ACCOUNTS INVITED HERE
Member F. D. I. C.

 

 

 

 

 

ROCKBRIDGE LAUNDRY

and
Dry Cleaners

Shirts Transparently Wrapped
for Freshness
*
AGENTS:

Fraternities, Dorms and Co-op

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
Page 4

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

‘Wild One’ Banned In England

(Continued from page 2)

almost all doubts as to the court’s
feeling on prior restraint. In the
1931 case of Near v. Minnesota a
newspaper editor was required to
get the newspaper approved before
he distributed it. The court said that
this was the worst form of freedom
of the press coming down from the
First Amendment under denial of
the freedom of speech.

Justice Hughes Said

In writing that opinion Chief Jus-
tice Hughes said, “that liberty of
the press, historically considered and
taken up by the Federal Constitution, |
has meant, principally although not
exclusively, immunity from previous
restraints or censorship.” The Times
ease, although dealing with film, is
a subject matter which falls under

 

Fancy Dress Ball Begins
Tonight At Eight O’Clock

(Continued from page 1)

Hear It To Believe It” and “Up the
Mississippi.”

The final dance will be held Sat-
urday night beginning at 8 p.m. in
the gymnasium. Jerry Wald’s band
will provide the music. Dress of the
Saturday night affair is formal.

Dance Board President Jimmy
Vann said today that he hoped that
Fancy Dress—1961, would be as suc-
cessful as the others of the past
have been.

Ring-tum Phi Managing Editor
George Honts gives the colorful his-
tory of Fancy Dress on Page Two
of today’s paper.

In connection with the editorial
on Page Two, we of the staff,
hope that you will all have an
enjoyable Fancy Dress.

 

 

STANLEY WARNER

STATE

LEXINGTON, VA.
|_NOBART 3-3424 |

 

 

LASTS TIMES SATURDAY

 

  
   

 

SPENCER FREORIC
TRACY MARCH
Gime
ee KELLY
THz A Wonderfully
Wornras” Kh Nove
RELEASED THRU UNITED ARTISTS a ae

 

 

SUN.-MON.-TUES.

 
  
    
   
 

COLUMBIA PICTURES esents
A FRED KOHLMAR PRODUCTION |

JACK
LEMMON

Key man in
“The Apartment”

. Ritky
NELSON

Dreamboat hits
the high C's!

om

NaS

  

eo etarviog
JOHN LUND + CHIPS RAFFERTY * TOM TULLY
+ JOBY BAKER » WARREN BERLINGER
wa PATRICIA DRISCOLL
Sereenpiany by RICHARD MURPHY
Serean Story ty HERBERT MARGOLIS ane WILLIAM RAYNOR

Based on 0 story by HERBERT CARLSON
Directed by RICHARD MURPHY

AEE

 

 

the same general heading, freedom of
expression.

Today there are only four states
and 15 cities which have movie cen-

sorship boards. Since the decision |
in 1931 it has been thought that |

they would be found unconstitution-
al, so that even those censorship
boards still in existence have not ex-
ercised much of their inherant power.

The dissent in this case recalls the |

evils and assininities which are evi-
denced by censorship in the part.
The four justices strongly discuss our
heritage of freedom which comes
down from the First Amendment.
“Whether—as here—city officials or—
as in Russia—a political party lays
claim to the power of governmental
censorship, whether the pressures are
for a conformist moral code or for
a conformist political ideology, no
such regime is permitted by the First
Amendment.”

Merely because the case at hand
involves censorship of movies should
not exempt it from the general rule.
By deciding that the Chicago board
may practice prior restraint on the
showing of films the court had im-
pliedly authorized the sterile moral-
ism of the censor in any media. The
court has at least reminded us of
our freedoms and the constant need
for their reassertion. It is difficult
to forsee all the consequences of this
revival of censorship; we can only
hope that it will be confined or
subsequently overruled.

 

NOTICE

All Fancy Dress Costumes are
to be returned on Monday by 5:30
p.m. at the Student Union.

 

 

rrr rev

} HICKMAN’S ESSO
‘ South Main Street
HO 3-2024

 

 

Wayland’s Drug Store

Prescriptions, Russell Stover
Candies

Next to Rockbridge Bank

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

HforferGe fe nteote ole be ofe oe ofe ne ofe oe ode ode oe abe oe nooks ole ode

CALL BY NUMBER
and Save Time

LEXINGTON
TELEPHONE CO.

sobebetetetetetetebebobetetetetededetetesedere
eceeceeecoeesoeoeseeeoeee

TEXACO
Super Service Station
Lexington, Virginia
Corner Main and Nelson
0000000000080 008000000

erhe sferfe oho she ote sherteote

re erore rere rorserierye

 

| e@eeocceceee
cooeceesoes

 

 

 

 

THE DUTCH INN

For Reservation Call
MRS. KATHERINE ADAMS
HO 3-3433

 

 

 

 

 

 

TETLOW
TV Service

221 S. Main HO 3-2841

 

 

 

 

 

Waggy’s Jewelers
35 S. Main Street
Phone HO 3-4121

THE HOME OF QUALITY

ow

 

 

Lexington
Laundro Matic

209 S. Main

*

HAND IRONED
SHIRTS

Dry Cleaning

Service

for your convenience

 

 

Green Valley Motel

One Mile North on
U. S. Highway No. 11

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA
HO 3-2195

 

 

 

 

and
Complete Formal Accessories
The
COLLEGE TOWN

Shop

 

 

 

McLin Considers Spanish Interests, Politics

(Continued from page 2)
politics were all in vain. Even the
professors from whom we were tak-
ing Spanish lessons admonished us
that “this is only for purposes of
the lesson, and afterwards I forget
anything that I have said.” And even
after that warning, he was not out-
spoken.

 

Maynard Sets Pool Record
(Continued from page 3)

team accounted for the final record
of the afternoon as they combined
to travel the course in 3:42.2.

Coach Norris Eastman commented
in an interview after the meet that
“it was good for the boys; they like
to feel what it’s like going up against
good competition; however, it always
hurts to lose.”

At this point in the season, the
Generals have a 3-2 record, and the
top scorers to date are Jim Parker
with 43 points, Elliott Maynard with
38 points, and Herb Jahncke with 28
points.

The tankmen face American Uni-
versity of Washington, D.C., in their
next meet Feb. 6. The following day
they meet Georgetown University,
also in Washington.

 

Spencer General
Tire

E. Nelson Street Extension

BEST IN TIRES
GENERAL

Best in Recapping

Kraft Tread

Compact Tires

 

We were elated to meet, near the
end of our stay, a professor of Eng-
lish from the University of Madrid
who was somewhat more outspoken
on the subject. Having fought for
the Nationalists in the Civil War—
fighting in which he lost a leg—he
was freer than most to discuss poli-
tics.

It was his belief that Franco is
governing just as much through the
opinion-making offices of the Roman
Catholic Church as through the small
number of syndicalists and large
landowners who comprise the Pha-
lange party. And, far from denying
the use of force in Spain, he main-
tained that force was necessary to
the government of any Latin people,
who are naturally anarchistic. Our
discussion with him was an interest-
ing seminar in Hobbs political theory.

The French government is not very
popular, nor totally unpopular.

 

 

Hamric and Sheridan
JEWELERS
Watch and Jewelry Repair
Hand Engraving and Class Rings
HO 3-2022

 

 

American aid to France and the
current campaign of the Spanish
government to encourage American
tourism in Spain make unsurprising
the statement of one Spaniard that
it is the minority of the people who
support Franco who also are pro-
American.

 

Prtterreseseeseeeeeeecre:
+ ROBERT E. LEE
BARBERSHOP
David M. Moore
Proprietor

EEEEEEE EEE EE Hh debit

 

 

BROWN’S
CLEANING
WORKS

We Call for and Deliver

24 Hour Service
Student agents in the
dormitory and fraternities
HO 3-2013 14 Randolph St.

 

 

 

 

See edeoGo fered ode ofe entender ote ooo ate ofe oe ferfenge

Baker
Ford Sales

@

ie
.
ie
i.
a
4
4
a
a
5
i.
a
a
ie
:
‘ BETTER DEALS
re
%
‘
ie
.
4
\°
a
.
4
a
4
e
a
a

whee
-

4
4
4
*
4
+

CLEARANCE
of lot for 1961 Models

NEW AND
USED CARS

Highway 60 East

 

 

*
%
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
‘
4
4
4
4
4
4

Oe oe oho whe oe oho afe ohe oe oe oe af afe oe ae oe oe afe ale feof of

 

A

 

It’s Good usiness

To Do usiness
with IERER’S

PHARMACY

 

 

 

 

Seo teteeeeteteteeteeeteteteeteteteeten
%

} NEW TOWN INN i
5 Short Orders—Lunches }
: Catering to Students ;
Peeneepeeeneeandndndede

 

=
8.
ga
°
re
SS
Q.
0
é
8
oO
5

and Lanéer

America’s First Fine

ECONOMY CAR
*

Rockbridge Motor Co.
INC.

Phone HObart 3-3146

 

 

TT TT TST Se eee

White’s Music
Store

(Opposite State Theater)
oy
Phonographs—Hi-Fi
Expert Repair Service
*k

5 W. Nelson St. Lexington, Va.
HO 3.3522

le Me Be Be Bo Be Be Bo Be Be Be Be Be Bc Bc Be Be Be Be Be Bn Be Be Bn Bade nbn 2 2 2 2,
TTT rrrrrrterrrrvtefTtt ees ee SEE SST TT

 

ee ee Se See eS eS Se eS ee 8 Se eS SE ES Ee

 

Resto Be le the she ie Me he he Re Me Me Be Be Be ee Ba Be Be BeBe Be Be Be Bae Boe Ba Beiter te

he Sele Be ihe he he Me Be he he Me Me Be he Be he Se he he te De

 

Oe ee ee ee eS ee ee eT Ee ee

 

VARSITY
BILLIARD
ACADEMY

Catering

To Students

Corner of

Washington and Jefferson

 

 

 

 

 

Loren Gergens briefs two of his salesmen on new telephone services for business customers.

“| DIDN’T WANT TO BE STOCKPILED”

When Loren

Gergens was working for his

B.S. degree in Business Administration at the
University of Denver, he had definite ideas about
the kind of job he wanted to land. He was de-
termined to profit from the experience of several
of his friends who had accepted promising jobs
only to find themselves in “manpower pools” —
waiting to be pulled into a responsible position.
“I didn’t want to be stockpiled,” Loren says.
“That’s no way to start.”

As a senior, Loren talked to twelve companies
and joined The Mountain States Telephone &
Telegraph Company, an associated company of
the Bell Telephone System.

From his first day challenges were thrown at
him thick and fast. First, he supervised a group
of service representatives who handle the com-
munications needs of telephone customers. Then

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

“Our number one aim is to have in all
management jobs the most vital, intelli-
gent, positive and imaginative men we
can possibly find.”

FREDERICK R, KAPPEL, President

American Telephone & Telegraph Co.

he served as manager of several telephone busi-
ness offices. In these jobs Loren had to prove
himself on the firing line, make right decisions
and carry them through. He knew his next jump
depended on only one man—Loren Gergens.

In July, 1960, he was made Sales Manager

in Boulder, Colorado.

“T’m on the ground floor of a newly created
telephone marketing organization. And I can tell
you things are going to move fast!’’ Loren says.
“It’s rough at times, but hard work is fun when
you know you're going somewhere—in a busi-
ness where there’s somewhere to go.”

If you're interested in a job in which you can
be your own prime mover—a job in which you’re
given a chance to show what you can do, right from
the start—you’ll want to visit your Placement Office
for literature and additional information.

 

BELL TELEPHONE COMPANIES

 

 
 

TUESDAY
Edition

he Ring-tum Phi

Washington and Lee S

emi-Weekly Newspaper

TUESDAY
Edition

 

Volume LXI

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA, JANUARY 31, 1961

Number 31

 

Russian Prof.

IRW Speaker

Dr. Abraham Kreusler, chairman |
of the Department of Russian Studies ,
at Randolph-Macon Women’s Col-'
lege, will be the third speaker in’
Washington and Lee’s seventh annual |
International Relations Week, be-'
ginning one week from today. Pro-|

Dr. Kreusler,
|

fessor Kreusler joins the Honorable’

Norman Thomas, distinguished so-
cialist leader, and Professor Malcolm
Moos of Johns Hopkins University,
recently speech writer to President
Eisenhower, who have been an-
nounced previously as featured lec-
turers in this program.

Professor Kreusler is a native of
the Western Ukraine and holds a
doctorial degree from the University
of Cracow (Poland). He came to the
United States in 1947 and joined the
faculty at Randolph-Macon in 1948,
after a year’s post-doctoral study at
!Columbia University. He gained his
American citizenship in 1954. At
Randolph-Macon he teaches courses
in Russian history, Russian literature,
and the Russian language. Resemb-
ling Premier Krushchev somewhat in
appearance, he has been described
by a colleague as “cherubic in per-
sonality but intellectually tough.”

He will lecture in Lee Chapel on
the evening of Thursday, Feb. 9, on
Some Post-Stalinist Developments
in Russia and Their Implications for
the West. It is his thesis that the
Russian government is under great
pressure internally to make peace-
ful approaches toward the West and
that this pressure presents the West
with great opportunity for nego-
tiation, directions of which he will
explore in his lecture.

SCHEDULE
Tuesday, Feb. 7, 7:15 p.m., Lee Chapel

Norman Thomas “An American
Socialist Views the East-West Con-
flict.”

(Continued on page 4)

 

Placement Notices

The following is a list of placement
interviews to be held in the next
week. Seniors seeking interviews
with company representatives must
make appointments with Dean Far-
rar in Washington 25.

February 1 (Wednesday)

On Wednesday, February 1, Mr.
Morrisett of the W. T. Grant Com-
pany will be on this campus to talk
with men interested in a career with
his company. He will talk about his
company’s Men-In-Training pro-
gram which leads to store manage-
ment or executive or buying posi-
tions.

February 3 (Friday)

On Friday, February 3, a represen-
tative of Burlington Industries, Inc.
will be on this campus to conduct
personal interviews with interested
members of our senior class. He will
discuss opportunities in the areas of
production management, accounting,
administrative management, person-
nel and sales positions with his com-
pany.

February 6 (Monday)

On Monday, February 6, Mr. James
Foltz will be on the campus to talk
with seniors interested in a career
with General Foods Corporation. He
will be glad to talk with B.A. or
B.S. graduates for openings in sales,
and to accounting majors for work
in finance.

February 7 (Tuesday)

On Tuesday, February 7, a repre-
sentative of International Business
Machines Corporation will be on this
campus to interview members of our
senior class who are interested in a
sales career with IBM, as well as in
Business Administration.

Feb. 8-9( Wednesday-Thursday )

Representatives of The Chesapeake
and Potomac Telephone Company
will be on this campus Wednesday
and Thursday, February 8 and 9,
to interview any seniors interested
in a career with the telephone com-
pany.

February 10 (Friday)

On Friday, February 10, Mr. Bur-
nette of the Sales Division of the
Proctor & Gamble Distributing Com-
pany will be on this campus to talk
with seniors interested in the Sales
and Sales Management Training pro-
gram of his company. He will discuss
positions available with the Toilet
Goods Division in sales and the op-
portunities for eventual supervision
and managerial positions.

on Saturday Night.

 
 

The world-famous Dukes of Dixieland perform at the Saturday afternoon Fancy Dress concert. A dance followed

—Photo by Young

 

In

By BOB BRIDEWELL

Washington and Lee’s debate team
has been asked to participate in
the Eighth Annual Harvard Invita-
tional Forensic Tournament. Mr.
William Chaffen, faculty sponsor and
coach for the debaters, announced
today that he planned to send a
four-man squad to Cambridge, Mass.,
to compete in the three-day meet
scheduled for Feb, 2-4.

Mr. Chaffen emphasized the fact
that the Harvard competition fea-

 

Debate Team Competes
arvard Tournament

tured the top forensic teams in the
country. He added, “Washington and
Lee should be honored by the chance
to debate in a tournament of this
size and with teams of such fine
caliber. The Harvard University De-
bate Council has invited such na-
tional powerhouses as Florida, Stan-
ford, Wake Forest, North Carolina,
and Rice, not to mention all of the
Southeastern and Ivy League cham-
pions.”

Representing Washington and Lee
in competition for the coveted John

 

News

Barrett In Telecast |
Dr. L. L. Barrett, chairman of |
the romance language department |
at Washington and Lee University, |
will participate in an interview Jan-'!
uary 16 that will be part of a special
telecast to Brazil and other Spanish-
speaking South American countries
with television facilities.

The program, “Panorama Pan-
americano,” will be conducted in
both Spanish and Portuguese. It is
under the auspices of the United
States Information Agency. The
videotapes will be shown in South)
America within the next two months.

Dr. Barrett, former public affairs
officer in the U. S. embassies in|
| Bogota and Quito,
'some Brazilian plays he edited for

|reading texts in Portuguese classes.
|

 

 

Summer Camp Changed;
ROTC Moves To Ft. Bragg |

General Military Science College |
ROTC units located in Ohio and Vir- |
ginia will exchange training sites for |
their 1961 summer camp training, it
was announced this week at Second
United States Army Headquarters at
Fort George G. Meade, Md.

The ten Ohio colleges and univer-
sities which have been sending their
advanced students to Fort Bragg,
N. C., for the required six weeks!
summer training, will be sent to Fort
Fort Knox, Ky., instead, while the
eight Virginia schools which have
been utilizing Fort Knox for sum-
mer training will be sent to Fort
Bragg.

The change was made to permit
ROTC students to train nearer their
home communities and thus achieve
considerable savings to the Army
in transportation costs. Army ROTC
summer camp training for 1961 will
be conducted during the period of
June 17 to July 28.

The eight Virginia schools that will
train at Fort Bragg this year are:
Virginia Military Institute (Infantry
only) at Lexington, Virginia Poly-
technic Institute at Blacksburg,
Hampton Institute at Hampton, Uni- |
versity of Richmond, Virginia State |
College at Petersburg, University of |
Virginia at Charlottesville, Washing- |
| ton and Lee University at Lexington,
| and the College of William and Mary |
‘at Williamsburg.

 

 

{

Briefs

A member of the Washington and
Lee Faculty since 1949, Dr. Barrett
received his A.B. degree from Mer-
cer University and his Ph.D. from
the University of North Carolina.
He has translated five books from
Portuguese to English. He has writ-
ten erticles in English, Spanish and
Portuguese for professional and com-
mercial publication in the United
States and foreign countries.

Phillips Publishes Article |
Discussing Landis Report |

The Januery issue of Office Execu- |
tive, a monthly magazine published
by the International Office Manage-

ait een ment Association, contains an article | nar for Students to be held in New

on collective bargaining as excerpted |
from a speech made by Dr. Charles |
F. Phillips, Jr., assistant professor of |
economics at Washington and Lee}
University.

The speech was delivered last year |
to the association’s Roanoke chapter. ,

Dr. Phillips argues in his speech
that for more than half a century
public policy in the United States
has been concerned with equalizing
the power mobilized on opposite sides
of the labor-management bargain-
ing table. Such power is detrimen-
tal to the functioning of a competitive
economy, he points out.

As a solution, Dr. Phillips notes
that public policy must seek to
place restrictions on the size and
power of bargaining units. The meth-
od advocated is to declare industry-
wide collective bargaining as illegal
restraint of trade under our anti-
trust laws.

A member of the Washington and
Lee faculty since 1959, Dr. Phillips
has written articles for five different
economic journals on subjects such
as the synthetic rubber industry,
regulation in a competitive economy,
and fair trade. He received his A.B.
degree from the University of New
Hampshire and his M.A. and Ph.D.
degrees from Harvard University. He
is a member of Phi Beta Kappa.

 

Notices

 

Class rings will go on sale to-
morrow, Wednesday, Feb. 1, in the
Co-op. Sales will run through Sat-
urday, and will run only during
the morning and evening hours.

Quincy Adams Debate Trophy will
be Bill Boardman and Bill Buice.
Boardman, a Beta sophomore, is
currently undefeated in Virginia in-
tercollegiate debating. Buice, an SAE
senior, recently added to his unde-
feated season with a convincing vic-
tory in the Philadelphia meet. This
promising two-man team will de-
bate the resolution: “That the United
| States shall adopt a program of
compulsory health insurance for all
citizens.” During the three days of
matches Buice and Boardman will
face eight opponents in preliminary
rounds. Their performance in these
qualifying debates will determine |
their placement in the four-round,
finals.

Completing the Washington and
Lee entry will be Pete Straub, Sig-
ma Nu senior, and George Birdsong,
SAE senior. Birdsong, who has com-
piled an impressive record in de-
bates this year, will join with Straub,
the veteran of the W&L squad, in
an attempt to bring home the Ed-
ward Everett Oratory Trophy.

Birdsong Picked
As Va. Delegate

George Birdsong, an SAE senior
from Suffolk, Va., has been selected
as Virginia’s delegate to the twelfth
annual Christian Citizenship Semi-

 

 

York and Washington on Feb. 5-11.
Each state will send one delegate.
Birdsong was selected by the Vir-
ginia Methodist student movement
to represent his state.

He has come in contact with this
organization through his work with
the Wesley Foundation and the Uni-
versity Christian Association.

The seminar will meet for four
days in New York where it will
study the United Nation’s work con-
cerning the current African prob-
lem. The group will then travel to the |
Capital to study the U.S. foreign!
policy towards the newly formed
African nations.

Birdsong said that he would have
to do a good deal of outside read-
ing to prepare for the conference.
He added, “I’m looking forward to
ettending the conference very much
since the material covered concerns
an area of major interest to me—
that of international relations.

The convention will open on Sat-
urday, February 5, with an address
from seminar coordinator, Dr. Robert
C. Good, who is research associate
for the Washington Center of For-

UCA Modifies Conference;

Three Seminars Planned
Mueller To Speak At First UCA-Lit. Lecture

The University Christian Association has announced plans
to modify the University Religious Conference next year and to
introduce a series of three seminars, which will be scattered
throughout the year. One of these seminars, which will be held
at the regular Religious Conference time, will be integrated with

 

eign Policy Research. Dr. Good’s
talk is entitled “Africa’s Challenge.”

On February 6, the group will!
hear a talk by Mr. Eric Volters of;
the U. N. Secretariat, on “The Im-!
pact of Africa on the U. N. and the
role of the U. N. in Africa.”

During their stay in Washington, |
the seminar group will be addressed |
by the Honorable Chester Bowles on
the subject of “American Diplomacy |
in Africa,” and by Senator Thruston |
B. Morton on “American Business
and Emerging Africa.” |

a modified version of the Religious Conference. Doing away

 

Dean Pusey Announces
Nat’! Defense Fellowships

Dean W. W. Pusey today an-
nounced that a list of National De-
fense Graduate Fellowships available
for 1961-62, for which graduating
seniors may apply, is now available
in the office of the Dean of the Col-
lege.

These fellowships are normally for
three years and provide an annual
stipend of $2,000-$2,400. Students in-
terested in college or university
teaching, who intend to enroll in a
full-time course of study leading to
the Ph.D. or similar degree, are elig-
ible to apply. Application forms must
be obtained directly from the in-
stitutions offering approved pro-
grams.

Interested students should apply
immediately, since there is a March
deadline for the institutions to sub-
mit their nominations to the U. S.
Office of Education.

Fellowships are offered in such
fields as: English Classics, French
German, Spanish, Music, Philoso-
phy, Religion, Russian Area Studies,
Business Administration, Economics,
History, Political Science, Sosiology,
Psychology, Biology, Chemistry, Ge-
ology, Mathematics, Statistics, Phys-
ics.

Sweet Briar Girls
In Musical Cast

For the second consecutive year,
Sweet Briar girls will participate
in the SWMSFC musical. Dave Lef-
kowitz announced today that Sweet
Briar authorities will permit the
girls to audition “subject to minor
revisions in the script.”

Auditions for the female roles will
be held on the Sweet Briar campus
Wednesday, Feb. 8. Chris Christian, a
member of last year’s cast, will
handle the arrangements at Sweet
Briar.

Several rehearsals will be held at
Sweet Briar, as well as at the Troub-
adour Theater. Crane Calder, a well-
known arranger who has worked
with Rogers and Hammerstein in
such Broadway shows as “Flower
Drum Song” and “Carousel,” has of-
fered to help with the Sweet Briar
rehearsals.

Beauty Contest
Open Till Feb. 5

The editor-in-chief of the 1961
Calyx, Ned Ames, announced today
that the deadline for entries in the
Calyx beauty contest has been ex-
tended until Sunday, February 5.

Ames said the extension was made,
from the Feb. 1 deadline, in order
to give more students a chance to
enter pictures.

 

 

To be eligible, a girl must be of
college age. Glossy print pictures,
5x7 inches, may be submitted to
Ned Ames or Ken Beall at the
Delta Tau Delta house on or be-
fore Feb. 5. Included data must
contain the girl’s name, her school,
her age, and her home town.

The student submitting the win-
ning picture will be awarded a free
case of beer.

The Calyx contest is an annual
event, and the reigning beauty is
chosen by a prominent figure. The
Queen and her court are presented
in the beauty section of the Calyx.
In past years, Jack Parr, Steve Al-
len and many other outstanding
personalities have judged the entries.
This year’s judge has been selected
and is one of Hollywoods’ leading
personalities,

Ames told the Ring-tum Phi,
“Progress on the Calyx has been very
good. We hope to have one of the

 

best yearbooks in recent time. And
a wide field from which to chose
the Queen will certainly enhance the |
chance of this being a top-notch

book.”

*with the usual Religious Conference

indirectly means doing away with
the compulsory assembly which had
become traditional.

The seminars will be held in co-
operation with different academic
departments in the university. Future
seminars may deal with the relation
of religion to history, science, sociol-
ogy, psychology, and economics al-
though definite plans for seminars
next year have not been made yet.

The first seminar will be held this
spring on April 5 and 6. The seminar,
entitled “Religion in Contemporary
Literature” will be led by Dr. Wil-
liam R. Mueller, chairman of the
Department of English, Goucher Col-
lege, Baltimore, Md. It will be sup-
ported jointly by the Seminars-on-
Literature Program, the University
Christian Association, and the De-
partment of Religion.

Professor Mueller, a native of Bal-
timore, obtained his A.B. from Prince-
ton in 1939, his M.A. in English from
Harvard in 1941, his Ph.D. in English
from Harvard in 1946, and his M.A.
in religion from Union Theological
Seminary in 1954. He held a Ford
Faculty Fellowship in 1953-54 and
visiting fellowship at Yale during
the same years.

He was an instructor in English
at Williams College from 1946-48,
and an assistant professor at Cali-
fornia in Santa Barbara from 1948-
51. In 1951 he went to the Women’s
College of the University of North
Carolina at Greensboro and served
there as associate professor until
he went to Goucher.

He is considered an authority on
English Renaissance literature, on
the history of Christian Doctrine, and
on the relation of religion to modern
literature. His books include The
Anatomy of Robert Burton’s Eng-
land, That Sovereign Light: Essays
in Honor of Edmund Spenser, Spen-
ser’s Critics, and The Phophetic Voice
in Modern Fiction. The last book is
one in which he shows the applica-
tion of Biblical themes such as suf-
fering, sin, and judgment in the
works of such writers as Faulkner,
Joyce, and Kafka.

Malcolm Brownlee, president of
the University Christian Association
says he is pleased Dr. Mueller can
be here. “He was our first choice
for leader of the seminar, and we
are privileged to get him.” Brownlee
also said that “he not only is one of
the four or five leading authorities
on religion in modern literature but
also is a teacher who knows how to
talk with college students about
topics which are interesting to them.”

Brownlee says that the UCA is
enthusiastic about the new seminar
program. “We felt the old Religious
Emphasis Week left much to be de-
sired. We hope that the seminars
will interest a larger number of
students than the Religious Empha-
sis Week since they will be related
to the different university depart-
ments. Also they will be spread out
over the year, giving a continuing
opportunity for religious discussion
of a variety of topics.”

Professor Mueller will give two
lectures in duPont Hall, will meet
with several classes, and will con-
duct one afternoon seminar. Tickets
for the lectures will be available
from the Department of English and
the Department of Religion.

 

Student Movie Showing

Original documentary and experi-
mental movies produced by Wash-
ington and Lee University students
will be featured at the University
Feb. 6 in the second annual Lexing-
ton Film Review.

The special showing will be held
at 7:30 p.m. in the lecture room of
the Washington and Lee department
of journalism and communications.

Most of the films were produced
last spring by students taking the
second semester journalism course
in the motion picture. Students wrote
their own scripts, photographed and
edited the films and made their own
sound tracks.

The longest film in the review will
be a documentary on the life and

(Continued on page 4)
Page 2

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

Che Ring-tum Phi

Tuesday Edition

Member of Virginia Intercollegiate Press Association

a FD Big Success

Don Partington and the Dance Board are to be congratulated
on the success of their dance set. There were better bands, better
costumes, better decorations, and better crowds than we can
remember having seen at three previous Fancy Dress sets. We
trust that future sets will show the same improvement.

Hell Week Here Again

Hell Week has begun again. It does not seem to be much

 

By HUGO HOOGENBOOM money is nothing, whether it be gold, |
During the election, and ever! Silver or paper. Everyone just agrees |
since, there has been a lot of talk| that gold is worth so many cows, or, |
about “economic growth,” the gold) 0w, is worth so many dollars that |
flow, the rapid increase of the pro-| are worth so many cows. Money can’t |
ductive capacity of the Soviet Union,| be eaten, can’t be worn and will not |
etc. The signs which seem to indi-| provide shelter. Money is not value, |
cate that we are heading for a re-| but represents value. Money is an|
cession are being pointed at, and a| artificial device, it is the medium in |
lot of free advice is being given, as) Which our products move.
usual. Lower interest rates are pro-| Money policies have great tempor- |
posed, credit extensions are sug-| ary effects on the economy. If in-
gested, people claim that higher |stallment buying were permitted over
wages will provide a “boost” for| a four-year period rather than three,

 

 

sion was taken up, we'd be right
where we were before. This is be-
cause a man cannot buy more than
he can produce. Money is esesntially
used to symbolize the barter, and a
man gets as much money as he has
produced money’s worth (less capital
investment, etc.) A man’s income,
then, is limited by what he can pro-
duce, and while monetary policies
may temporarily aid or hinder him,
his capacity is what ultimately con-
trolls his income.

Thus, when “tight” money policies

different from any of the others that we have had the pleasure ; economy, or perhaps increased gov-

 

ernment spending.

there would be a sudden increase in| or “loose” money policies are in
demand, and we'd sell two year’s | force, fundamental changes are not

or misfortune of witnessing. There are the same stinking
freshman coated with peanut butter, ketchup, and whatever else
is objectionable to the senses.

The efforts of the Interfraternity Council to ‘clean up” have |
failed. The same vague unenforcible rules exist. The same |
pleas for human rights and human dignity have been offered |
with the same results. |

 

The fault lies not with the IFC, but with the individual fra- | .

ternities. No matter how many rules and regulations are passed |
or rejected by the IFC, the fraternities will continue to operate |
on much the same basis. There are always means of avoiding ;
“the rules.” |

The ‘‘clean up” must come from within. Each house must
be willing to give up a few of the most barbarous practices
each year and replace them with constructive activity either in|
the fraternity house or around the community.

The trend in the past years has been toward improvement. |
As each class catches less and less of the traditional “‘hell,’ they |
will, in turn, tend to be more lenient and the whole “hell week”’
tradition will die.

The only other solution to the problem as we see it would |
involve some sort of faculty or administrative action on the |
matter. We hope that such action will not be taken. We trus*

|
|
that it will not be necessary for the administration to take such |
|
|
|
|

 

 

action. We do feel that an administrative ruling on the matter is
inevitable, unless the individual fraternities are willing to take
action or at least empower the IFC to control or restrict the
amount and nature of abuse to which the freshmen may be
subjected.

We do not intend to suggest here that the freshmen be,
allowed to forego a week of strenuous activity prior to initiation |
into the fraternity. We feel that such a week is beneficial in that
it further integrates the freshman into the routine and ritual of
the individual house. A “help” week is more necessary than |
ever as a means of drawing the freshmen and the fraternity

closer together.

Former R-tum Phi Editor

Earns National

All of this talk, all of these sug-| products in one year. This would |

|

gestions, have to do with money, one| create more jobs, circulate more
of the most mysterious things in| money. But as soon as the extra}
the world. From one point of view, | slack provided by the credit exten-

        

being made with the productive ca-
pacity, but the planners are juggling,
taking money out of one pocket and
putting it in another.

Hoogenboom Reflects On Economics;
Production, Not Money, Aids Growth

The thing that is needed to make
the economy grow is more produc-
tive capacity: that is, that each man
can produce more goods with a day’s
work. Then, through his wages, he
can exchange his work for more
goods. This is the only growth that
is possible in an economy. The two
tremendous spurts of growth which
have occurred were the result of
the invention of the machine, with
proper power sources, and the de-
velopment of assembly-line meth-
ods of production. Proper policies
aided in the realization of the pos-
sibilities of these two things, but
when they had been exploited and
refined a new method of increasing
a man’s productive capacity had to
be found, and when found, used.

Automation seems to be the next
step. Greater energy sources are
available, or are imminently avail-
able (i.e., Project Sherwood, con-
trolled nuclear fusion). All that re-

 

mains is to use them. But at every
step of the way powerful forces fight
these advances. Labor unions will
not countenance automation unless
as many men are employed with it

’ | as were without it. The crafts unions

will not permit the use of prefabri-
cated house units. Miners resist in-
troduction of more efficient mechani-
cal devices. It is in this way that our
economy is being stifled, and not
by the Federal Reserve Board.

Here is the “new frontier” largely
| unmentioned in the inaugural hoop-
| la. This is how you make an economy
| grow. This is what the Federal Gov-
| ernment should concern itself with:
| a method by which a gradual transi-
| tion to automation could be made
| without causing the horrible disloca-
| tion which attended the industrial
| revolution.

This is the way to make the econo-
| my grow: stop thinking there’s some-
thing magic about money and start
- producing.

NOTICE

All second semester fees, dormitory
rents end board were due on Jan.
30, 1961. They may be paid in the
| office of the Treasurer, 4 Washington
Hall, any day between 9:00 a.m. and
4:00 p.m., or the bill may be sent
| home upon request. Please give this

Bill Buice and Bill Boardman will lead W&L’s debate texzm at Harvard next week. Pete Straub and George Bird- | your prompt attention.

song round out the team. See story on page 1.

—Photo by Young

i E. S. MATTINGLY, Treasurer

 

Webster Unabridged

 

‘Inert Fraternity Council’ Votes Down

Acclaim Hel! Week Proposal Without Good Reason

By ED WEBSTER
Let’s not do anything just yet.

abuses that the pledges must under-
go.

By Tom Lybass

Charles McDowell, Jr., a former
columnist and editor of the Ring-
tum Phi, recently had published a
collection of his columns from the
Richmond (Va.) Times-Dispatch.
The publication of One Thing After
Another, thirteen years after Mc-
Dowell’s graduation from W&L, is
one of the most recent distinctions he
has achieved.

Last year McDowell was named
winner of a Headliner Award “for
outstanding journalism achievement,”
one of 24 such awards made by the
National Headliner Club at the club’s
annual luncheon in Atlantic City,
New Jersey.

In the spring of 1959, McDowell
received the Distinguished Service
Award at the Southern Interscholas-
tic Press Association’s 13th conven-
tion at W&L. The citation commend-
ed his work at SIPA meetings and
his willingness to assist young peo-

ple.
McDowell, whose association with
newspapers began at W&lL, has

worked for the Richmond Times-
Dispatch since 1949. During that
time, he covered such outstanding
news events as the national political
conventions of 1952, 1956, and 1960,
the Senate fillibuster of March, 1960,
and Krushchev’s tour of America.
Newsman McDowell broke the
most revealing story of 1952 at the
GOP National Nominating Conven-
tion. At a Chicago hotel where the
Eisenhower and Taft factions were
arguing over the contested state del-
egations, McDowell, prowling back-

 

 

stage, found in an adjacent kitchen,, revealed glimpses of his talent for
political bosses bargaining fiercely | subtle humor that was to develop
amid kitchen sinks and glassware.| with writing experience. On sum-
There his roving eye spied stenciled| mer vacations he covered baseball
on the walls an admonition to the! and wrote sports columns for the
kitchen help: “Keep It Clean.” Roanoke Times.

At W&L McDowell was an SAE.| Upon graduation from W&L in
He spent much of his time in publi-| 1948, Charles McDowell went to
cation work, serving as president of | Columbia University School of Jour-
the Publications Board, editor and | nalism for a year. In 1949 he began
columnist of the Ring-tum Phi, a'work for the Richmond Times-

Let’s wait until some freshman| Both motions were rejected. The
vomits blood or breaks his leg. | IfC—the Inert Fraternity Coun-
| cil—just sat there and voted no.

There was no discussion raised, no

reason given.

Then maybe we can decide to do
something about Hell Week.

People have tried before. For years
and years, some of the most respect-! In case anyone doesn’t know, the
ed men in the student body have been | IFC never does very much. It isn’t
arguing that Hell Week should be} even a decent debating society. Its
cleaned up. most daring ventures have been in

The cleanup was endorsed last! fining houses that were in violation

 

member of the Calyx staff, and a
contributor to the Southern Colle-

Dispatch, covering the police beat.

He became a columnist in 1956. year by the president of the Inter- |

fraternity Council, both editions of |

of rushing rules.

The IFC is made up of two men

 

gian. Elected to ODK and Sigma Del-
ta Chi, McDowell became secretary
of his class in his junior year and |
historian as a senior. He also played |
on the varsity basketball team for |
three years.

For the Ring-tum Phi McDowell
wrote a light column wherein were

His book, One thing After Another,
is made up of some 80 columns|
published over a span of several|
years. Exhibited in McDowell’s |
columns are a wry sense of humor |
and a penetrating mind. The liveliest

(Continued on page 4)

| the other placing limitations on the! just about anything that necessitates

the Ring-tum Phi, and the members| fp9m each house—the president and
of ODK. |}one other. They’re supposed to be

The next step was the IFC itself.! pretty sharp guys, but they’re
Two motions were offered this year,! scared to do anything. They want
one of them setting up some positive | to do what’s right in the eyes of their
goals for a Help Week period, the fraternity brothers. Consequently,

 

 

capacity, the IFC should discuss top-
| ics which fraternity men deem im-
; | portant and should establish and
Dear Sir: | maintain a set of policies related to

Your columnist, Ed Webster, gave | these topics. Policies adopted by the
me the privilege of reading today’s! [FC should represent the attitudes of
column in advance. Hoping that I) the majority of our fraternity men.
am not abusing this privilege, I must! The IFC was not created 1) to pass
attempt to answer some of the ques-| down the opinions of the administra-
tions brought to the fore in this} tion and faculty to fraternity men, 2)
column. to pass mandates and shove them

First, I see the IFC as an organi-| down the throats of the individual
zation created to function as a rep-| fraternity members. The strength of
resentative body of the fraternity the IFC stems from the fact that its

To the Editor,
Tuesday Edition

 

men on our campus. Serving in this! policies are the policies of the frater-

IFC Officer Repudiates Webster

nity men and as such, must receive! I maintain that the actions of the
fraternity support. |IFC members which concerned Mr.
| Several weeks ago a motion pro-| Webster were entirely consistent
| posing certain hell week reforms was| With IFC policy. Some months ago
defeated in IFC meeting. Mr. Webster|e2ch IFC representative was in-
| has correctly informed Ring-tum Phi formed of the hell week proposal.
readers that there was little pre-bal- | They were instructed to present this
lot discussion from the floor, and| proposal to their houses for discus-
| that there seemed to be little con-| sion and approval or disapproval. On
| cern over the failure of the motion| the evening that the hell week pro-
at the meeting’s end. Mr. Webster| posal was voted on by the IFC there
concludes that, by its very nature,| was no need for discussion of any
the IFC has become nothing more| sort. The votes were already cast
than another inert student organ-| and needed only to be counted.
ization. Mr. Webster was disappointed that
= | the IFC measures to reform hell

 

 

 

SOMEBODY'S BEEN KICKING IT

ALL OVER THE NEIGHBORHOOD,

ANDO I'D LIKE TO KNOW...
> ————

€

 

ae
WA > vl. (lee “rae

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

TR Ai nghis reserved
Cope. 1960 by United Feature Syndicate, ing,

 

eo | week failed to pass. He had worked
| long and hard as a member of the
| IFC Negative Committee which pro-
| posed these reforms. I must maintain,
| though, that if the fraternity men
| of our campus were against such re-
|forms, then it was not within the
| power of the IFC to establish and
| enforce new hell week restrictions.
| Such restrictions, passed without
| the support of our fraternity system,

(Continued on page 4)

 

a change is going to be voted down.

The cheirman of the IFC has tra-
ditionally supported various progres-
sive measures. In influencing the
IFC to vote for these measures,
however, his hands have been tied.

Face the Facts

Let’s face it: the average student
gets a hell of a kick out of watch-
ing a freshman squirm. The fresh-
man is helpless; if he wants to be
initiated, he’s got to endure all
sorts of indignities. He’s got to
wallow in hog intestines, or drink
detergent, or have eggs dropped
down his throat. He’s got to wear
week-old liver next to his body,
or swallow an oyster on a string.

And while the freshman is being
put through his paces like a witless
cur, he’s vowing that he’ll really
make it rough on the pledges next
year.

“This is the way the Marines make
men,” we’re told; and “this is noth-
ing compared to the Hell Week of
former years.” I would suggest that
W&L is supposed to be turning out
gentlemen, not leathernecks. And as
for the good old days, well—this
school has advanced a long way since
then.

Right To Complain

If any freshmen feel that they are
being forced to undergo a physical
or emotional hazard, they have a
legitimate right to complain. The
cowards are those who keep silent.

This year the chairman of the IFC
will be paying special attention to
the hazing practices that occur. On
specific cases of abuse, he will prob-
ably have the support of the IFC’s
Judicial Committee, which is com-
posed of house presidents.

The Solution

The solution will not be found in
a rash of accusations and penalties,
however. The solution will be for a
few fraternity officers to decide to
offer the pledges, their brothers-to-
be, something more substantial than
eggs and tabasco. Something, per-
haps, like sandpaper and paint—ap-
plied manually rather than orally,

 

 

 

 
THE RING-TUM PHI

Page 3

 

Cagers Lose McDowell

Team’s Strength
Affected By Loss

Good and bad news were combined
with the usual second semester en-
thusiasm as Coach Bob McHenry and
the basketball team began prepara- bs
tions yesterday for the coming slate r
of games.

Briefly the bad news is that John
McDowell, freshman and starting
center for the quintet has been
dropped from school through fail-
ure to meet academic require-
ments. On the brighter side there
are a few things to look forward
to. Brett Thackston, feared lost
from the team because of grades,
is eligible to continue playing and
will play in the remaining games.
In addition, Ken Kowalski, who
has had a severe knee injury in the
last few weeks will see more ac-
tion and should be ready for the
first game this coming Saturday.

McDowell’s loss will be very| %
great to the team which has counted | —
on his rebounding strength all sea-|
son, and his 8.6 scoring average has| .~
been a big help on the scoreboard.
Although he was only a freshman,
the six foot, six inch McDowell has

fi

A ee

power. McHenry hopes that by mak- |

,

 

Sandy Mersereau wrestles in Hampden-Sydney match.
s

 

 

certainly been a tremendous help
to the Generals and even more im-
portant then that he had been count-
ed on for the next three years.

His loss will certainly put even
more pressure on the Generals who
were just getting up some steam as
exams were beginning. Coach Mc-
Henry has no plans to make any
great changes at present and has
stated that he will definitely not
bring up any of the boys from the
freshman team.

One minor change will be a new
offense which will be inserted to be
used at various times during a game.
It is a 3-2 offense with three men

outside and two men in close under |

the basket. The reason for this change
is that Washington and Lee’s main
weakness is its lack of rebounding

ing this change he will be able to!
open up the middle of the key area to
enable his players to drive more for
the basket.

The agenda for the next few
weeks slates Washington and Lee
against three tough opponents. This
Saturday, the Generals will meet
Hampden-Sydney at the Tigers’
home court. Although we were vic-
torious in the last encounter with
this team by a comfortable margin,
the Tigers have since then beaten
Randolph-Macon on their home
court. Then, next Tuesday the Gen-
erals will face Randolph-Macon
here. Randolph-Macon is in Coach
McHenry’s estimation, “the best
team in the state of Virginia.” The

(Continued on page 4)

 

|

 

; A Just

Reward

We of the Tuesday Edition would like to echo the Friday

Edition’s praise of Coach Lee McLaughlin for the honor ac-
corded him as Virginia Coach of the Year. In the four years
that Coach Mac has been here, he has not only produced a
winning team out of the depths of mediocrity but has won the
admiration and esteem of the faculty and student body. We
feel that as a coach and a man, Coach Lee McLaughlin justly

deserves the honor of Coach of

the year. —S. G.

 

 

 

Member

 

 

STUDENTS ACCOUNTS INVITED HER

F.D.LC.

 

PEEEEELELELE OEE E EEE SEES EEE EEE EHH
We Feature

SEAL

Dairy Products
“To get the best get Sealtest”

over twenty different products in addition to
delicious Sealtest ice cream

Block and Crushed Ice

Your favorite mixes—Ice Cold

*
Maple-Rock Distributors, Inc.

Phone HO 3-2168
Hehe rte ode oho obe oe ohe oe she ofe oe oe oe fe ofeofe of oe feof fe oe ofe af of of ofe ofc ofe oe ofe oe fee of ofe ole oe ole ofeofo abe fo olenle fe ote ol

TEST

ee eo
REE te Et et ge te eee ae a a a a Ee ee

a a
Pa gt tat a ee ee

 

ae Looe oho oho obo oho oho oe he oe oho oho whe oe oe ote ofeohe ae of oe oof oe oe ale oh oe oe fe oho oo oof oe oe oe oe oe ofeofe ode fer afi afoot ate

Shirt Service as You Like it

Quality Cleaning and Pressing :
UNIVERSITY CLEANERS :

HO 3-3622
*

*
*
“Your Campus Neighbors” ;|
*
=
+

beefed oe fe rhe eee boob abe ae obese rde abe abe abe ode de oe ofe ao ae ofe oe oer ae ee abe oe oe oe of ode ode of ode ate afeofoete

 

Rifle Team Lacks Polish;
Instructor Seeks Range

The W&L rifle team has a
match scheduled for next Monday |
against Wake Forest, on the VMI
range. So far, in defeating William |
& Mary and losing to Richmond, the |
team has averaged 1370 points out!
of a possible 1500. This may seem |
good until one considers that Fish-
burne Military School shot a 1406
total in defeating the W&L freshman
team. What’s wrong? Sergeant John
Matthews, team coach, attributes a
lot of this to lack of practice. At
present, the team uses the VMI
range about two hours every day,
and two nights a week, but our
neighbors down the street have
their own commitments, so it’s not
always possible for the team mem-
bers to get enough practice. The
sergeant has five good shooters, and
ten more capable of being equally as
good, with practice, but there’s no
place for them to work.

 

 

Mat-Men Open Semester;
Ready For Rough Schedule

The varsity wrestling team returns| gomery follows Mersereau, with 17
to action after the semester break on| points, 5-1, in the 130 pound com-
Monday, February 6 at 7 p.m., when| petition, and Dick Albert rounds out
they meet one of the “Tobacco Road” | the top four with a 4-1 record and
teams, the Duke Blue Devils, in| 16 points. Two other scorers in
Doremus Gym. double figures are Hoke Robinson,

The Generals’ grapplers carry a with 13, and Jud Babcock, with 11.
4-2 record, with a four meet winning| Coach Miller considers the team
streak, into this match, which, ac-| to have good overall depth, with
cording to Coach Dick Miller, prom- | the exception of the 123 pound class.
ises to be one of the best of the| He has three men for every other
season. The only comparison that| Position, and Mersereau, Albert,
can be made between the two teams| Smith, and Jansen are all capable

is that Duke lost to North Carolina| of wrestling at weights from 147 to,

by a wide margin, while the Generals | 167 pounds.

came within two points of defeating) The remaining four matches will
the Tarheels, bowing 16-15 in their| be tough ones, according to the
first match of the season. coach, who expects the one at West

After the loss to UNC, the Gen-| Viriginia, on February 16th, to be,

erals dropped another contest on! the toughest.
the road, bowing to the Diplomats : ;
of Franklin & Marshall 22 to 9 on| The remainder of the schedule:
December 9th. On December 10th, | Feb. 6—Duke...............000 Here, 7 p.m.
the Generals began their winning | Feb. 11—N. C. State....Here, 7:30 p.m.
streak, beating New York Univer- | Feb. 16—West Va........... There 8 p.m.

 

sity in New York by a 21-11 score, | Feb. 27—Virginia............ Here 8:30 p.m.
defeating Pfeiffer 17-9 in Lexington
just before the Christmas vacation, NOTICE

and overwhelming Gallaudet and
Hampden-Sydney, 25-5 and 27-3
respectively, just before the mid-

There will be a home basketball
game Wed. night at 8 o’clock

 

Sports Shorts

... The swimming team returns to
action after exams next Monday,
hitting the road for meets Monday
and Tuesday in Washington, where
they will face the American Uni-
versity and Georgetown teams. Ac-
cording to Coach Norris Eastman,
both should be tough, especially
American. He’s busy now whipping
his tankmen back into shape after
the two week layoff, and has practice
meets scheduled with VMI in order
to ease the drudgery...

... Ken Kowalski hopes to be back
in action for the basketball team
Saturday night at Hampden-Sydney,
when the Generals go after their fifth
win. Kowalski has been out for over
a month due to a knee injury...

... Coach Norm Lord’s winter track
team swings into action Saturday
night at 7 p.m. in the VMI Relays,
against such competition as Duke,
North Carolina, Navy, Maryland,
VMI, Virginia, William & Mary,
Richmond, and various and sundry
Little Eight schools. Captain Jim
Hickey, the South Boston speedster,
who finished fourth in the Richmond
Jaycee Invitational, will run in the
60 yard dash, John Pearson in the
there will be General teams in the
70 yard high hurdles, Robin Kell
will compete in the high jump, and

(Continued on page 4)

 

year break.

 

 

 

| ors. Herb Smith, KA pledge from

At this point in the season, four
members of the W&L squad are
fighting it out for top scoring hon-

Warwick, Va., presently leads in the
race, with 19 points and a 5-1 rec-
ord. He usually wrestles in the 167
pound class. Captain Sandy Mer-
sereau, wrestling at 157, is next with
18 points, on three pins and a de-
cision, with an overall record of
four wins and two losses. Dave Mont-

 

Radio Hospital

*
Radio, TV, Phonograph
Sales and Service

*
HO 3-3531

 

 

 

 

The Southern Inn

Cordially invites you to make this your headquarters for good food
Here you get the best food for the most reasonable prices

Our Specialties: |

Steaks, Chicken, Country Ham, and the best sandwiches
in town

Meet your friends here

 

 

+

 

 

 

 

 

 

ROCKBRIDGE LAUNDRY

and
Dry Cleaners

Shirts Transparently Wrapped
for Freshness
*
AGENTS:

Fraternities, Dorms and Co-op

 

 

 

 

 

Open a convenient student Checking account
TODAY

at

Rockbridge National Bank

Member Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation

 

 

 

 

Choice

SSSHSSSSHSSSSSHSSSSSHSSSHEHGSSSSSSHOHSSSHHSEHESESEOEE*

Ted’s Steak House

Finest Foods

Ww
SUNDAY DINNERS

Route 60 Buena Vista

Meats

   

   
 

 

On Campus Vor Gan

(Author of “I Was a Teen-age Dwarf” “The Many
Loves of Dobie Gillis’, etc.)

HOW SMALL CAN YOU GET?

Today let us address ourselves to a question that has long rocked
and roiled the academic world: Is a student better off at a
small college than at a large college?

To answer this question it is necessary first to define terms.
What, exactly, do we mean by a small college? Well sir, some say
that in order to be called truly small, a college should have an
enrollment of not more than four students.

I certainly have no quarrel with this statement; a four-
student college must unquestionably be called small. Indeed,
one could even call it intime if one knew what intime meant.
But I submit there is such a thing as being too small. Take, for
instance, a recent unfortunate occurrence at Crimscott Aand M.

Crimscott A and M, situated in a pleasant valley nestled
between Denver and Baltimore, was founded by A. and M.
Crimscott, two brothers who left Ireland in 1706 to escape the
potato famine of 1841. As a result of their foresight, the Crim-
scott brothers never went without potatoes for one single day of
their lives—and mighty grateful they were! One night, full of
gratitude after a hearty meal of French fries, cottage fries, hash
browns, and au gratin, they decided to show their appreciation
to this bountiful land of potatoes by endowing a college. They
stipulated that enrollment should never exceed four students
because they felt that only by keeping the college this small

 

WS do

could each student be assured of the personalized attention, the
camaraderie, the feeling of belonging, that is all too often lacking
in higher education.

Well sir, things went along swimmingly until one Saturday a
few years ago. On this day Crimscott had a football game
scheduled against Minnesota, its traditional rival. Football was,
of course, something of a problem at Crimscott, what with only
four students enrolled in the entire college. It was easy enough
to muster a backfield, but finding a good line—or even a bad
line—baffled the most resourceful coaching minds in the country.

Well sir, on the morning of the big game against Minnesota,
its traditional rival, a capricious destiny dealt Crimscott a cruel
blow—in fact, four cruel blows. Sigafoos, the quarterback,
woke up that morning with the breakbone fever. Wrichards, the
slotback, was unable to start his motorcycle. Beerbohm-Tree,
the wingback-tailback, got his necktie caught in his espresso
machine. Langerhans, the fullback, was stolen by gypsies.

Consequently, alas, none of the Crimscott team showed up at
the game, and Minnesota, its traditional rival, was able to score
almost at will. Crimscott was so out of sorts that they immedi-
ately broke off football relations with Minnesota, its traditional
rival. This later became known as the Dred Scott Decision.

So you can see how only four students might be too small an

enrollment. The number I personally favor is twenty. How
come? Because when you have twenty students and one of
them opens a pack of Marlboro Cigarettes, there are enough to
go around for everybody, and no one has to be deprived of
Marlboro’s fine, mild flavor, of Marlboro’s easy-drawing filter,

of Marlboro’s joy and zest and steadfast companionship, and

as a result you have a student body that is filled with sweet

content and amity and harmony and concord and togetherness

ind soft pack and flip-top box.
That’s how come.

© 1961 Max Shulman
+ * *

You will also find twenty cigarettes—twenty incomparable
unfiltered king-size cigarettes—in each pach of Marlboro’s
new partner in pleasure—the Philip Morris Commander,
Welcome aboard!
 

Page 4

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

 

   

PEANUTS

 

ONE MINUTE MY FOOTBALL

IS IN THE FRONT YARD, AND
THE NEXT MINUTE SOMEBODY
HAS PONTED IT INTO THE BACK YARD]

—y

 

    

 

 

 

 

 

 
 
   
   
 

 
 

BUT WHO? THERE'S
(ISN'T A HUMAN BEING
IN SIGHT !

v _ EY

vigniatld

 

 

ghee reserved
Cope. 1960 boy United Feature Syndicate, ima.

E

i

HEE HEE HEE \‘2-@
HEE HEE HEE

 

 

 

 

Py ee

 

 

 

 

 

 

The Ins And Outs OF W&L

SWMSFC is so far out it’s in.

The commons is still out.

People who call other people “fish”
are out forever—but people who are
sincerely “fish” are in.

Sunglasses are way out.

Letters to the editor are out.

The Paramount is out.

People who call assignments
“homework” are in.

C’s are back in.

Calling Washington and Lee,

“W&L” is out.

“Teams” are out. “Groups” are in.

“Flash” and “barf” are out.

“Vomit” is in.

Earl N. Levitt is out.

Doc’s is in. Doce is out.

People who don’t know what Wa-
hoos are, are in; Wahoos are out.

“Grass” is way out.

Carrying your lunch to school is
in.

Riding a bicycle to school is out.
“Jolly Ollie” Crenshaw is in.

The cold check committee is in.

 

Notices

All students who ordered Fancy
Dress costumes and neither picked
them up or cancelled them must
pay the $7.50 service charge. Please
make checks payable to the Wash-
ington and Lee Dance Board and
mail them to Box 497, Lexington,
by Feb. 10.

There will be a meeting of the
Student Service Society on
Wednesday at 5 p.m. in the Student
Union.

Graduating seniors who plan to
work for graduate degrees and
who are members of Phi Eta Sig-
ma, Freshman Honor _ Society,
should get in touch with Charles
W. Turner, faculty adviser of the
W&L chapter, at duPont Hall 1.

The National Phi Eta Sigma Fra-
ternity offers two three-hundred-
dollar scholarships each year on
the basis of the student’s scholas-
tic record, evidence of creative
ability, evidence of financial need,
promise of success in chosen field,
and personality.

Only members of Phi Eta Sig-
ma are eligible for these gift schol-
arships.

Local deadline for applications
is Feb. 25, 1961.

 

Student Flicks

(Continued from page 1)
work of Dr. Marion Junkin, chair-
man of the fine arts department at
Washington and Lee. The film, pro-
duced by E. H. Ould, Jr., a 1960
graduate, and course instructor O.
W. Riegel, includes an explanation
and demonstration of true fresco
painting.

Also to be shown are “The Inaug-
uration of Dr. Fred C. Cole, “a doc-
umentary record by Robin Frames,
also a 1960 graduate, and “Recollec-
tions on a Bicycle,” an associational
experiment by Fred H. Belden, Jr.,
now a student at the Columbia Uni-
versity School of Architecture.

 

 

STANLEY WARNER

STATE

LEXINGTON, VA.

 

 

WED. through SAT.
i r

   
   

ep
John Huston

inn Huston TALENTS

Thelma Ritter Eli Wallach

Scissnpisy by reduced by Directed by
Arthur Miller Franl: E, Taylor John Huston
Music by Alex North Released thru United Artists

 

 

 

“Pigs” are back in.

Saying “flag” and “dog” is out.

“Weenies” are back in.

Goshen is out—hoses are in.

Card games are out—except for
war.

Lee Chapel is in.

WREL is in—it’s also out.

ROTC is out—The Gaines Guard is
in if you’re not in ROTC.
Nurse Allen though out, is in.
Saturday 12:05’s are in.
Going to bed is in, sleeping is out.
Linked courses are a problem.

University Receives $1,500
In Shell Company Grant

The Shell Oil Company has select-
ed Washington and Lee University
to share in its program of “Shell
Assists” to higher education for the
second consecutive year.

President Fred C. Cole announced
receipt of the Shell gift of $1,500,
which includes $500 of unrestricted
funds, $500 for general faculty de-
velopment and $500 for professional
development of individual faculty
members in engineering, mathematics
and the physical sciences.
Washington and Lee is one of
nearly 100 private colleges and uni-
versities sharing $150,000 in Shell
Assists for 1961.

“The cummulative effect of the
Shell Assists program is of great
significance to private higher edu-
cation,” President Cole said. “Wash-
ington and Lee is most grateful for
this additional support from one of
our leading corporations.”

a eked

TUES.-WED.-THURS.

 

 

 

ss

   
       
 
 

Laurence OLIVIER
eu. William Shakewpeare's gg E
HENRY V'}
IM TECHNICOLOR © Released vu UNITED ARTISTS

ne biggest battle ever td

ee it on WIDE SCREEN!
THEATRE NAME

  
  

 

 

R-t P Subscription

Many outstanding events will take
place during the Spring term on
the W&L campus. To mention only
a few: International Relations Week,
The Phi Beta Kappa assembly, ODK
selections, the SIPA convention, ten-
nis, lacrosse, baseball, intramural
events, and Spring and Final dances.
These and many other events are
covered by and preserved in the two
weekly editions of the Ring-tum
Phi.

Realizing how hard it is for us,
here at school, to keep those at home
informed, the Ring-tum Phi would
like to offer a special rate of $2.50
for the balance of the semester in
order that parents friends, alumni,
and any incoming freshmen may be
kept in closer contact with the
school.

We would encourage you to send
in your subscription as soon as pos-
sible in order that all the second
semester issues be sent. We will be
glad to include back issues as long
as they hold out. Everyone certainly
should spend 10 cents an issue to
keep his parents and others informed
on the school.

The attached form may be filled
out and mailed to Box 899, Lexing-
ton, Va., or it may be given to either
Huntly Biggs—SAE or Peter Age-
lasto—Phi Kappa Psi. The payment
of $2.50 may be made now or a
bill could be sent to your parents.

OR Re NOH Aste e eee eee eee eeeeneeeeeee Obes eeeesesseseneeseaeneeees

Payment: Cash
Or send bill to:

 

I. R. Week Schedule

(Continued from page 1)

Wednesday, Feb. 8, 8 p.m. Lee Chapel
Dr. Malcolm Moos “The Presiden-
cy and Foreign Relations”

Thursday Feb. 9, 7:15 p.m. Lee Chapel

Dr. Abraham Kreusler, “The True
Nature of the Russian Challenge”

 

 

LEXINGTON
CLEANERS

Phone HO 3-3813 108 S. Jefferson

 

Sports
(Continued from page 3)

sprint and distance medley relays.
It should be a good night for track
fans, even if there’s no personal in-
terest involved, considering the
“name” teams participating...

... W&L’s one man boxing team,
Ray Robrecht, will be fighting on
Thursday night, February 23rd, in a

 

Letter to the Editor
(Continued from page 2)

would not necessarily do away with
the evils of our present hell week.
Hell week 1961 will be the most
critical hell week in the history of
our fraternity system. Though we
will not have the security of an IFC
police committee, our fraternity lead-
ers have promised to demonstrate
mature judgment in the planning of
their hell week activities. The long
arm of the faculty is waiting to
strangle what remains of our func-
tioning IFC. Only one careless,
poorly-planned activity will be nec-
essary to start the arm moving. Fra-
ternity men must realize that both
the health of our freshmen and the
life of a segment of our student gov-
ernment are at stake during the next
week. Our fraternity men must act

wisely—they have much to lose.
DAVE LEFKOWITZ

 

Basketball

(Continued from page 3)
following Saturday, the Generals go
to Lynchburg for a game with
Lynchburg College.

 

Feb. 4—Hampden-Sydney.......... There
Feb.
Feb.
Fob. 19— Virgin a....cc.c.ccss.cscscssssesee Here
Feb. 15—Roanokce......................... There
Feb. 17—Catholic U..............:cc000 Here

Feb. 21—Emory and Henry........ There
ede nhe ste rfe ogee ade nde ae ole ofeaenfe ae ole oe obra ae ofeofe ofa ofe

 

5 IDEAL :
+ BARBER SHOP +
E QUICK SERVICE :
=
eitedeobetetedetetetecbdeteteteobetotetetetotes

 

Shorts

Roanoke Police Athletic League team
match with the Quantico Marine
team, at Roanoke. Ray will have
tickets if anybody’s interested...

...It occurs to us that the great
American game, baseball, will soon
be in season. Rumor has it that there
are several promising lefthanded
pitchers in the freshman class, a
commodity for which there was a
crying need last year. Add to that
a pitcher who held the Parris Island
Marines scoreless for five innings
last year, and who is capable of
making an enemy batter swing at
pitches a foot over his head, and
maybe this year the team’s record
will improve. We shall see...

 

McDowell Book

(Continued from page 2)

of his columns concern “mankind’s
timeless tendency to foolishness.” In
One Thing After Another, an ar-
rangement of his columns under such
titles as “Science, Progress, and
Other Discomforts,’ “Lo, The Poor
Language,” and “Some Random Mat-
ters that Needed Attention” suggest
his preoccupation with the offbeat
side of the commonplace. Some re-
viewers have found in this quality
a similarity to Robert Benchley.

i Se he ofa ahe oe afe fe oe fe ofe oe oe oe oe fe oe oe ae oe ake vfs oe ake

 

 

os

THE NEW

White Top

Restaurant
*

A personal invitation
to the
Students

Try our delicious foods
Route 60 East

a Be Bie Be Be oe Be Be Be Mie ie Me Me Me he Ba a ste she she the the ite she he ihe he the he ihe she ate oe
FSS SSS SSeS eerste eee

 

:
;

SURO ere ole oho ole oe ofe fe ole ole ole fe ole feos ole oe rteote

The Ring-tum Phi

Friday Edition

The Ring-tum Phi is published Tues-
day and Friday during the college year.
It is printed 0, the Journalism Labor-
atory Press, Washington and Lee Uni-
versity. The mailing address is Box
899, Lexington, Va,

Entered ag second class matter Sep-
tember 20, 1946 at the Post Office, Lex-
ington, Va., under the act of March
‘National Advertising Representative:
The National Advertisers Service, Inc.,
420 Madison Ave., New York, N.Y.

Tuesday Edition
MOG. cesta Rosewell Page, III

Business Manager... Huntley Biggs
Editorial Board

Managing EditoP...........0000 Bill Roberts

Photography Editor.............. Bill Young

Assistant Managing Editor...
Steve Galef
..Bob Bridewell

 

 

 

MYERS
HARDWARE
COMPANY

|
|
|
'
{
|
|
|
|
'

 

 

For those extra pieces

of
FURNITURE

for your room
see our stock
before buying

oe
VARNER AND POLE

 

 

BROWN’S
CLEANING
WORKS

We Call for and Deliver

24 Hour Service
Student agents in the
dormitory and fraternities
HO 3-2013 14 Randolph St.

 

 

 

 

Green Valley Motel

One Mile North on
U. S. Highway No. il

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA
HO 38-2195

 

 

 

 

 

 

The First National Bank

of Lexington
*
has special checking accounts

for students

 

 

 

 

VARSITY
BILLIARD
ACADEMY

Catering

To Students

Corner of

Washington and Jefferson

 

 

 

LeePePEeererEeaaseereges
White’s Music
Store

(Opposite State Theater)
Sy
Phonographs—Hi-Fi
Expert Repair Service
i

5 W. Nelson St.
HO 3-3522

Lexington, Va.

 

-
e
*
-
-
-
*
*
-
*
+
+
-
.
*
*
*-
*
*
be
*
*-
ee
-
*
+
-
=
*-
*
a
+*
e
4

 

:
cm
%
%
%
%
*
%
*
%
%

Pode odo ofeobede ode ode rhe bebe erode odode ob odeedee

 

IBM F
WILL §
INTERVIEW }
FEBRUARY

i

]

This is a unique opportunity to find out about
the many career opportunities at IBM. The
IBM representative can discuss with you typ-
ical jobs, various training programs, chances
for advanced education, financial rewards,
and company benefits —all important factors

that affect your future.
SOME FACTS ABOUT IBM

An Unusual Growth Story: IBM has had one of
the exceptional growth rates in industry. It
has been a planned growth, based on ideas
and products having an almost infinite appli-
cation in our modern economy.

Diverse and Important Products: IBM devel-
ops, manufactures and markets a wide range
of products in the data processing field. IBM
computers and allied products play a vital

Candidates for Bachelors or Masters Degrees
are invited to discuss opportunities in:

Systems Engineering and Sales

 
  

role in the operations of business, industry,
science, and government.

Across-the-Country Operations: Laboratory

Endicott, Kingston,

and manufacturing facilities are located in

Owego, Poughkeepsie

and Yorktown, N. Y.; Burlington, Vermont;

Lexington, Ky.; San

United States.

what type of work a

Jose, Calif.; Bethesda,

Md.; and Rochester, Minn. Headquarters is
located in New York City with sales and serv-
ice offices in 198 major cities throughout the

The Accent is on the Individual: No matter

person does at IBM, he

is given all the responsibility he is able to
handle, and all the support he needs to do

his job. Advancement is by merit.

The areas in which IBM is engaged have an
unlimited future. This is your opportunity to
find out what that future has to offer you.

Call or stop in at your placement office to ar-

range an appointment with the IBM repre-
sentative for the date above. If you cannot
attend an interview, write or call the manager
of the nearest IBM office:

Mr. E. P. Andrews, Branch Manager
IBM Corporation, Dept. 882

933 S. Jefferson St.
Roanoke 11, Va.
DI 2-3437

IBM You naturally have a better chance to grow with a growth company.
FRIDAY
Edition

Volume LXI

Seventh IRC Week Opens |
On East-West Theme Feb. 7 |

 

Cincinnati,
Colonial Dames
Contest Opens

The annual essay contest spon-
sored by the Cincinnati and Colon-
ial Dame Societies will have as its
topic: “Virginia Colonial and Mili-
tary History.” The paper submitted
must be over four thousand words
in length and is to be entered by
May 20.

The announcement of the contest
was made today by Dr. Charles W.
Turner, a long-time affiliate with the
contest.

The Cincinnati Society campus
awards a prize of $50 and the Vir-
ginia Colonial Dames awards a prize
of $200 for the best work submitted.

Joseph Smith, class of ’60, won
the 1960 contest with his essay Co-
lonial Tobacco Regulations in Vir-
ginia.”

Suggested topics include “Virginia
Colonial Post Office,” “Dr. William
Clayton,” “Virginia Minute Men,”
“County Government,” and any
other topic dealing with Virginia’s
colonial and military history.

 

Two Professors Are Named
To Municipal Board Posts

Two professors at Washington and
Lee have been appointed to munici-
pal bodies in the town of Lexington.
Dr. E. C. Griffith, professor of eco-
nomics, was appointed to fill the un-
expired term of Walter L. Foltz on
the Town School Board, and Henry
L. Ravenhorst, associated professor
of engineering, was appointed to the
town planning commission.

Dr. Griffith has been active in
civie affairs for many years, having
served on the board of the Chamber
of Commerce, being president of the
Stonewall Memorial Hospital, and
having been chairman of the Com-
munity Chest and of the Lexington
Lions Club. He is also a member of
the town planning commission.

Mr. Ravenhorst is a past president
of the Lexington Lions Club, a mem-
ber of the board of Radio Station
WREL, and is active in church work
as a member of the Commission on
Higher Education in the Virginia
Methodist Conference.

Both men begin their terms im-
mediately.

Delts, KS’s
Elect Officers

Phi chapter of Delta Tau Delta
elected new officers for the coming
year earlier this week. Tom Luthy,
a rising senior from Peoria, IIL,
was chosen to succeed Steve Suttle
as president of the House.

Other officers elected to serve with
Luthy are George Honts, of Eagle
Rock, Va., vice president; Doug Mar-
tin, Ft. Thomas, Ky., house manager;
Bart Dick, of Morristown, Tenn.,
treasurer; Ashley Witshire, of Rich-
mond, Va., corresponding secretary;
David Montgomery of Richmond,
Va., recording secretary; Bill Wheel-
er, of Peoria, Ill., sargeant-at-arms;
and Ken Brandeburg, of Lexington,
Ky., guide.

Elected president of Kappa Sigma
Fraternity for the coming year was
R. D. “Skip” Ruhle, a freshman law
student from Anderson, S. C.

Along with Ruhle, the following
officers were elected: Michael Henry,
Houston, Tex., vice president; Lance
Tarrance. Dallas, Tex., grand master
of ceremony; Bill Chandler, War-
rington, Va., secretary-treasurer; Joe
Murphy, Sumner, Miss., house man-
ager; and elected guards were Sam
Cantey of Ft. Worth, Tex. and Don
Belveal of Clayton, Mo.

 

 

Notices

Chairman of the Assimilation
Committee, Don Partington, has
announced that the committee will
resume its regular meetings for the
second semester Tuesday night at
seven o'clock in the ODK Room

Che Ring-tum Phi

Next week’s renewal of Interna-!
tional Relations Week at Washington
and Lee will mark the seventh an-
niversary of the event.

The speakers for 1961’s “Week”
will be Norman Thomas, who will
deliver an address entitled “An
American Socialist Views the East-
West Conflict” on Tuesday evening;
Dr. Malcolm Moos, recently speech-
writer to President Eisenhower, who
will speak on “The Presidency and
Foreign Affairs,’ on Wednesday eve-
ning, and Dr. Abraham Kreuzler,
Chairman of the Department of Rus-
sian Studies at Randolph-Macon
Woman’s College, who will conclude
the series with a lecture on “The
True Nature of the Russian Chal-
lenge,” on Thursday.

The inaugural IR Week at W&L,
in 1955, featured the Ambassadors
to the United States of Spain, Fin-
land, and India, and _ Professor
Charles A. Micaud, of the University
of Virginia, a specialist in French
affairs. These speakers emphasized
differed in points of view on issues
then current in international affairs
by discussing the positions of their
respective countries.

Lectures on Wilson

The sophomore year of the pro-
gram coincided with the nation-wide
celebration of the centennial anni-
versary of Woodrow Wilson’s birth.
This celebration set the theme for
International Relations Week in 1956,
as lectures on Wilson’s work were
delivered by Professor D. F. Flem-
ing, of Vanderbilt, a former direct-
or of the Woodrow Wilson Founda-
tion, and Professor Ralph Purcell,
of Sweet Briar. Both these lectures
were later published, and Professor
Fleming’s lecture, delivered in Lex-
ington, was used by the United States
Department of State in Voice of
America broadcasts.

The 1957 edition of IR Week stress-
ed the impact of American policy on
Asian and Iron-Curtain countries.
Speakers in this program were Pro-
fessors Edward Hallett Carr, Robert
Koblitz, and Milan Habala, the lat-
ter of Sweet Briar College. Profes-
sor Carr also gave three lectures on
historical subjects while on the
campus, and the lecture he gave
in the IR Week program was pub-
lished as part of the introductory
material of the fifth volume of his
History of Soviet Russia.

Reached High Level
International Relations Week
reached a high level of student in-
terest, combined with excellence of
discussion, in 1958, when then-W&L
Professor Arnold Toynbee, promin-

Washington and Lee Se

mi-Weekly Newspaper

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA, FEBRUARY 3, 1961

Norman Thomas, Malcolm Moos, Featured Speakers E .
To Join Abraham Kreuzler On Diplomatic Program |

bach joined forces to discus the out-
standing features of American diplo-
macy in 1958.

Professor Toynbee’s lecture was
published in Shenandoah, the W&L

literary magazine. Mr. Larson, who |

preceded Dr. Moos as President

Eisenhower’s speechwriter, used his ,

lecture as a sounding board for some
ideas that formed the central theme
for a book published by Harper and
Brothers in 1959 under the title,
What We Are For.

The book was reviewed for the
New York Times by a man who was
then a Senator from Massachusetts,
John F. Kennedy.

  
 

Hon, Norman Thomas
Leading Socialist

Dr. Abraham Kreuzler

FRIDAY
Edition

Number 32

 

Noted Historian

 

In 1959 Mr. Walter Millis, long-»
time writer for the New York Her-
ald-Tribune and distinguished his-
torian, spoke on “The Irrationality
of War.” His speech was an exposi-
tion of the “minimum deterrence
thesis”—the idea that in the present
power struggle it is not necessary for
either side to have enough strength
to gain victory in war if its purpose
is to prevent war. Rather, it is ar-
gued, a nation can prevent war by
making its potential enemy know that
its certain retaliatory capacity is so
great that the enemy will not dare
undertake war. Philip Jessup, then
Hamilton Fish Professor of Interna-
tional Law at Columbia University
but recently appointed judge of the
International Court of Justice, spoke
on “Current Problems in American
Foreign Policy.” Michael Mora, Gen-
eral Manager of the Norfolk Port
Authority, spoke on the European
Common Market and its probable in-
fluence on foreign trade of the United
States.

Last Year’s Theme

Last year International Relations
Week was developed around the
theme, “the United States and Un-
derdeveloped Countries.” The Hon-
orable Paul Hoffman, Managing Di-
rector of the United Nations Special
Fund and former Chairman of the
Studebaker Corporation, gave an
address entitled “Interdependence:
Fact and Opportunity.” Dr. George
Stolintz, who is Professor of Eco-
nomics at the University of Indiana.
spoke on world population move-
ments and their meaning. And Lt.
Colonel Amos A. Jordan, who is
Professor of Social Sciences at the
United States Military Academy,
lectured on United States Military
Assistance to the Underveloped
Countries.

International Relations Week is
sponsored by the School of Com-
merce and Administration and the
International Relations Club, with
funds provided by the University

 

ent Republican Arthur Larson, and
Harvard Professor Edward Katzen-

Lectures Committee. Its purpose is
(Continued on page 4)

 

Pres Rowe To Do 6-Month Tour Of Duty In Army;
Three Students To Work With Information Service

Three students have been named
by the Information Services of Wash-
ington and Lee University to help
with new work for the second se-
mester.

George Honts, John Allgood, and
Bill Young are to assume some of the
activities of assistant director A.
Prescott Rowe, beginning Feb. 23.

They will work under the super-
vision of Frank A. Parsons, director
of Information Services.

Rowe, a 1960 graduate of W&L and
former editor of the Ring-tum Phi,
is taking a leave of absence from his
post to serve a six-month tour of
duty in the U.S. Army.

Rowe is a native of Fredericks-
burg, Va. and had worked with the
Free-Lance Star prior to his coming
here.

George Honts, a Delt junior from
Eagle Rock, Va., has been named
special assistant. His duties will in-
clude most of the regular news work
done by Rowe. Honts is managing
editor of the Friday Ring-tum Phi.
During the past summer he was a
member of the news staff of the Clif-
ton Forge, Va., Daily Review. He was

 

Automatic Suspends 32

The Committee on the Automa-
tic Rule has announced the with-
drawal of 34 students from the uni-
versity because of academic failure.
This total is a sharp contrast to
the multitude of rumors floating
around the campus.

Included in this total were 22
freshmen and 10 upperclassmen.
There were two students who failed
to make a “C” average probation.

The Committee is composed of the
president of the university and the
deans of the arts and sciences school,
the commerce school, and the law

associated with the Information Serv-
ices during the past semester.

John Allgood, a freshman from
Charlotte, N. C., will assume a po-
sition of assistant in the sports de-
partment. He is assistant sports edi-
tor of the Friday Ring-tum Phi and
has been employed by the Charlotte
Observer as a sports writer.

(Continued on page 4)

Honor Roll

Fifty-eight students were listed
on the honor roll for last semester.
Of this total nine students submitted
straight “A” averages. There were
nine freshmen on the honor roll and
two of these students had all A’s.

Those listed with all A’s were:
Christian, R. M.; Cravens, J. D.;
Goldstein, J. L.; Gray, G. B.; Har-
rell, H. H.; McKim, W. M.; Mausy,
C. R.; Noell, W. A.; Swartz, M. F.;
and Vitsky, B. H.

Others whose semester averages
were 2.5 or above are: Anderson,
C. L.; Atwell, J. W.; Bradford, J. W.;
Broaddus, J. A.; Brownlee, J. M.;
Campbell, J. M.; Chernay, S. R.;
Danko, D.; Danzansky, S. I; Ed-
wards, R. T.; Everett, K. G.; Frazier,
R. K.; Haslett, D. W.; Hawkins, S.;
Holland, R. G.; Imeson, T. C.; John-
son, E. B.; Jones, R. S.; Jordan,
W. B.; Kell, R. A.; Kleeman, K.;
Lewis, R. D.; Lewis, T. C.

Lowry, W. B.; McClung, J. W.; Mc-
Nab, G. R.; Merchant, J. H.; Mor-
row, C. M.; Niemeyer, C. J.; Ogilvie,
W. B.; Page, R.; Painter, S. M.; Paley,
S. H.; Pardington, G. P.; Parker,
J. C.; Rieley, C. P.; Rutledge, D. W.;
Salomon, H. S.; Simpson, N. P. B.;
Slater, H. K.; Smith, L. H.; Soper,
J. H.; Stubbs, D. A.; Sylvester, J. T.;
Turner, J. B.; Vann, J. A.; Webster,

 

Phillips’ Report
To Be Published

A critique of the Landis Report
by Dr. Charles F. Phillips, Jr., as-
sistant professor of economics at
Washington and Lee University, will
be published in the Feb. 2 issue of
Public Utilities Fortnightly.

The article entitled “The Landis
Report: Boon or Bane?” is being
published at the request of the edi-
tors of the national journal. It is
a summary and evaluation of James
M. Landis’s recent report concern-
ing the United States’ independent
regulatory commissions.

Public Utilities Fortnightly is dis-
tributed to management personnel
and college libraries.

“The Landis Report is a careful
analysis of current regulatory prob-
lems which minimizes certain im-
portant, recent developments in the
competitive relationships of regu-
lated industries and which ignores
an opportunity to make a real con-
tribution in areas where public pol-
icy has lagged for too long,” Dr.
Phillips writes. “Less, not more,
bureaucracy and political interfer-
ence must be the starting point if
regulation in the United States is to
be improved.”

(Continued on page 4)

 

Radio-TV News Seminar
Canceled By Snow Storm

A driving snow has canceled the
third annual Radio-Television News
Seminar which was to be held here
tomorrow and Sunday by the W&L
journalism department.

A spokesman for the journalism
school said that the seminar had been
canceled because of bad weather
conditions, and that it would be held

 

 

school, as well as the dean of men.

E. G.; and Wright, F. W.

sometime in the near future.

 

 

of the Student Union. All mem-
bers are urged to be present.

 

 

Dr. Flournoy as Shakespeare

Professor Fitzgerald Flournoy;

A Credit To Oxford And W&L,
As Well As Court of St. James

By GEORGE HONTS
Managing Editor

A week ago tonight the old Globe
Theatre came to life again at the
1961 Fancy Dress Ball. The dance
set, led by Don Partington, was a re-
ensctment of the presentation of the
Lord Chamberlain Players to King
James I of England.

Adding a note of authenticity and
color to the pageant was the appear-
ance of Dr. Fitzgerald Flournoy in
the role of William Shakespeare.

Perhaps no one but Dr. Flournoy
could have given such a perform-
ance. A Rhodes Scholar, Dr. Flour-
noy is a Shakespeare student and
teaches a year-long course in the
plays of Shakespeare. His deep voice,
with a trace of old English added,
announced the participants in the
set in a matter that attracted the
attention of the audience and that
needed no mechanical aids. It was,
in the estimation of most of those
who witnessed the set, the most im-
impressive presentation in recent
times.

Born in Richmond
Flournoy was born in Rich-
near the turn of the

Dr.
mond, Va.,

century. He received a B.A. degree
from Washington and Lee in 1920
and a M.A. degree in 1921. He con-

ceiving a BA degree with honors
there in 1924. In 1938 he earned a
M.A. degree from Oxford. He com-
pleted his education with a Ph.D.
from Yale University in 1936.

Dr. Flournoy was an instructor at
Stanford University in 1925-26 and
was appointed to the Washington and
Lee faculty in 1926. He was pro-
moted to the position of professor of
English at Washington and Lee in
1937.

His college activities include mem-
bership in Phi Kappa Psi social fra-
ternity, Omicron Delta Kappa, Phi
Beta Kappa and Sigma Rho. Dr.
Flournoy was the editor and the
founder of State Orator’s Medal. He

Church.

Dr. Flournoy is the son of the late
W. C. and Mrs. Mary Flournoy. Mrs.
Flournoy is a much honored citizen
of Lexington, too. She is the house-
mother of Phi Epsilon Pi and is
one of the ladies who welcomes vis-

 

itors to W&L’s famed Lee Chapel.

tinued his studies at Oxford, re-|

is a member of the Presbyterian |

| Dr. Flournoy has one son, William
| Cabell, who is a student at Roanoke
| College, Salem, Va.

During World War I, Dr. Flournoy
| saw action with the SATC group
}in 1918. He lists his hobbies as
| hunting and fishing and writing
| verse.

Dr. Flournoy’s Works

Dr. Flournoy’s articles and mono-
| graphs include works in the Oxford
| Review of English Studies and the
| Virginia Magazine on History and
| Biography. He has also written a
, work entitled The Grigsbys of Rock-
Bridge.

The 1961 Fancy Dress has now
passed on to take its place among
the outstanding Faney Dress Balls.
Certainly Dr. Flournoy was a vital
part of the success of the weekend
that had threatened to be unsuccess-
due to the snow and bitter cold
weather.

Old Globe Theater

The gymnasium was decorated in
the fashion of the Globe Theater,
complete with stage and banners
representing the standards of the

 

(Continued on page 4)
Page 2

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

Che Ring

Friday Edition

Member of Virginia Intercollegiate Press Association

-tum Phi

 

International Relations Week

The International Relations

day might prove to be one of the most stimulating and signifi-

cant events of this academic year

for dicussion of vital importance, but the speakers are men
of considerable prominence in their fields.

Foreign diplomacy is perhaps the most crucial theme in
American politics today. It’s only suitable that the 1961 IRC
week be concerned with American diplomacy, and as in the|j
past, present the student body with a provocative and meaning: | |

ful program.

The renowned socialist leader Norman Thomas and noted
republican Malcolm Moos, champions of two contrasting ideal-
ogies, will indeed provide the incentive for a week comparable
to the highly successful IRC program n 1958. That year this

campus highly acclaimed Dr.

Larson, like Moos, an Eisenhower speech writer who was ac-
knowledged as the chief apologist of ‘Modern Republicanism.”

At that time the student body c

in an effort to hear these exponents of varying points of view
and the enthusiasm was difficult to parallel. Again this year,
we anticipate an overwhelming reception for the noted speakers.

Dr. Abraham Kreusler, an

affairs, will treat post-Stalinist developments in Russia compli-
menting the discussions of Thomas and Moos.

We urge all faculty members and students to take part in
the events of next week. Opportunities such as this are rare
and everyone who does not participate in some or all of these
events is denying himself the occasion for exciting and timely
discussions on topics which ultimately affect each of us.

Dr. Gunn and the International Relations Club are to be
commended for making this opportunity possible for us.

Week which begins next Tues-

. Not only are the related topics

Arnold Toynbee and Arthur

rowded to capacity Lee Chapel

eminent authority on Russian

 

Vann Attends Conference;
Impressed With West Point

By JAMES VANN
Friday Columnist
‘feller, Dean Rusk, Gen. Courtland

One of the highlights of my col-
lege experience occurred last De-
cember when, to-
gether with Pierce
Hardwick I rep-
resented Washing-
ton and Lee at
the annual Stu-
dent Conference
on United States
Affairs held at
West Point.

Not only did the
conference provide
intellectual stimu-
lation and _ chal-
lenge, but also it gave us an op-
portunity to meet with and exchange
ideas with students from all the
better colleges in North America.

The conference was set up sev-
eral years ago with the purpose in
mind of enabling students from out-
standing intellectual communities to
meet together with high ranking of-
ficals in the United States Foreign
Office, and thereby gain some ap-
preciation of the magnitude and
complexity of our present interna-
tional situation.

The various delegates were di-
vided into panels, each of which
was headed by some scholar or
soldier who had risen to the na-
tional fore in his field. In these
panels delegates were to study a
particular aspect of United States
policy and come up with recom-
mendations on the feasibility of
these suggestions.

 

My own pannel was on the At-
lantic Community, and was headed
by Dr. Ruth Lawson of Mt. Holyoke,
a recognized expert on European in-
tegration.

Our research and study centered,
for the most part, around the NATO
alliance: and our conclusions were
directed primarily towards the more
rapid realization of a united and
militarily self-sustaining Europe. To-
gether with me on the panel was Col.
Richard Stillwell, a member of the
Draper Commission, and _ students
from Rutgers, Sarah Lawrence,
Princeton, Harvard, Yale, Bryn
Mawr, Amherst, and the University
of Ottawa.

In addition to the work that was
done in the panels, the atmosphere
was further stimulated by conven-
tions that were held each evening at
which the delegates attended en
mass. Among the speakers at these
larger meetings were Nelson Rocke-

 

Schuyler, and J. J. Lindsay of the
Washington Post. These men usual-
ly spoke on controversial aspects
of the foreign policy and in addition
to contradicting each other, their
talks were always followed by live-
ly debates from the floor.

Aside from the obvious advant-
ages that accrue from participat-
ing in a conference such as this,
I was delighted by the opportuni-
ity of seeing at first hand the Mil-
itery Academy. And here I can
offer nothing but praise. The en-
tire week of meetings were under
the supervision of the Military
Cadets, and things ran without a
hitch. Not only was everything co-
ordinated perfectly, but there was
nothing ommitted for the dele-
gate’s comfort and convenience.

Together with their thoroughness
and efficiency, the student body of
West Point also presented itself
as an extremely well-informed and
intellectually acute group of stu-
dents. I sat in on a history class
while I was there and was very
much impressed not only by the
teacher, a Ph.D. from Harvard and
the author of several books, but also
by the interest of the students.

I have previously regarded the
Academy as having little or no in-
tellectual atmosphere with all its
emphasis on the football team and
Peter Dawkins. I have come to have
a sincere respect for the students and
a genuine admiration for what they
stand.

In conclusion I would like to say
that this is, as can be seen from my
own reactions, a fine way to sell your
school and student body to others.

(Continued on page 4)

 

New Rates Offered

The Homestead, in Hot Springs,
Va., announced today that a special

  

 

By VICTOR LASSETER
Friday Columnist

There has always been a strong
tradition of iconoclasm in American
humor, but with
the coming of the
television set and
the long-playing
record you can
now enjoy icono-
clasm in your own
living room.

The growth of
the mass media
has __ fortunately
a : been paralleled by
Lasse a growth in the

sane popularity of the
new iconoclasts: Bob Newhart, Nich-
ols-May, and Mort Sahl.

 

 

Sahl, a young Canadian of Jew-
ish descent, is (among the new
comedians) perhaps the most se-
vere critic of the American scene.
He is more properly described as
an iconoclast or nihilist. He says,
for instance, that he is “not so
much interested in politics as in
overthrowing the government.”

Sahl reached a zenith in popular-
ity this summer when he was the
subject of a cover story in Time
magazine. He is often seen on fami-

 

Every year about this time two!
articles are run in the Ring-tum Phi
which always rate
a groan_‘ifrom
everyone except
the authors. The
first one appeared

last week (the
yearly picture his-
tory of Fancy;

Dress in stunning
black and white),
and the second is
the annual Hell
Week editorial.

To my _ mind
these two articles should be com-
bined and published several times
a year. That way we could have
“The Semi-Annual Picture History
of the Week after Fancy Dress, Com-
plete with Comments, Letters, and
Bloody Pictures.”

Craven

If this plan for consolidating the
articles is carried through, I can
foresee a trend which might revo-
lutionize both time-honored insti-
tutions. Fancy Dress could become
Hell Week!

Consider the history of Fancy
Dress. It was started to relieve the
boredom of mid-winter in Lexing-
ton by the dear old school librarian,
Miss Annie Jo White. Each year
it has grown and grown, until it

by Monitor and Look Magazine.

But let’s face it, since that peak
Fancy Dress has been on the de-
cline, and we've been forced to
spend more money to entertain less
people. No longer will Life consider
coming to Fancy Dress. On the other
hand, Hell Week was also begun as
a relief from boredom, and it too
has increased until it was investi-
gated (on the west coast) by Look’s
counterpart on those shores, Life
Magazine. There is no information
about possible radio and TV cover-
age of that scandal.

At any rate, both institutions are
the cause of some concern among
faculty and student body. The facul-
ty wants to abolish Hell Week, and
the Dance Board wants to perk up
Fancy Dress. Fancy Dress could real-
ly be a hell of a better week if
the two were joined. Think of the

 

Monday through Friday rate of $2.00
per day for college students has been
initiated.

According to a press release from
the Homestead, rates on Saturdays, |
Sundays and holidays will be $6.00)
per day, or $10.00 for the two-day
weekend.

Students must have proper identi- |
fication to ensure that they are en-|
rolled in college if they wish to take
advantage of these offers, the re-|
lease said. j

live decorations in the gym (pledges
hanging from the balcony by their
thumbs), authentic and cheap me-
dieval costumes (burlap underwear
for everyone), inexpensive entertain-

 

Notice

There will be a meeting of all
candidates for varsity baseball, fresh-
men candidates included, Thursday,
February 8, at 7:30 p.m. in the gym.

 

don’t we.”

reached the peak in 1958—coverage

ly television programs, but here his
sharp tongue is usually stifled by
demands of sponsors and producers.
On the last Steve Allen show, how-
ever, Sahl did make an excellent,
un-censored appearance. He took his
material from the U-2 episode. Pres-
dent Eisenhower, he said, seemed
to be taking a feminine role in the
cold war. After the latest Krushchev
tirade, Eisenhower would rush into
Hagerty’s office and ask: “has he
called yet?”

Sahl is at his best in night-club
performances, many of which have
been recorded on LP’s. Taking a
theme for discussion, “eggheads in
government,” for instance, Sahl be-
gins his staccato-like attacks. His
targets: the DA.R., the Edsel,
coffeehouses, the A.M.A., and poli-
ticians.

The A.M.A. became one of his
favorite targets after a California
doctor once charged him an exorbi-
tant fee for an appendectomy. Sahl
is particularly fond of psychoanal-
ysts. He talks about their willingness
to cooperate with patients, to refer
them to other analysists. “They call
it motivational-rehabilitation-thera-
py. I know... we call it fee-spliting,

 

Sahl is best known as a political

By THORNS CRAVEN
Friday Columnist
ment (freshmen singing fraternity
songs, fraternity men singing pledge
songs, freshmen eating eggs, actives
throwning eggs, etc. ad infinitum).

All of this would be the good
college fun that harks back to the
days of Miss White. And all the
time and money that is saved
could go into other worthy chan-
nels for the overall improvement
(new thumbscrews, permanent
racks, imported stale liver, things
like that).

I think this plan should be given
consideration and that the Fac-
ulty Committee on Committees

 

satirist. In his “eggheads in gov-
ernment” monologue he discusses
the controversy over sending Nix-
on or Stevenson as a good-will
ambassador around the world.
Nixon, Sahl says, was offered sev-
eral countries of his own, but he
refused because “he’d have to go
on television and explain to the
president.”

Sahl is nominally a Democrat. He
has spoken at several fund-raising
dinners for the Democrats and has
refused to do the same for the Re-
publicans. His satire, however, is
usually directed at the party in pow-
er. As he explained on a recent tel-
evision debate with Steve Allen,
“Kennedy is the President-elect,
Nixon is the President-reject.”

Sahl was concerned about the lack
of a political conscience among his
colleagues in night-clubs and on
television. The nation elected its
youngest president by the closest
vote in years, and no other comedian
objected. As Sahl says, “Kennedy
promised the country everything;
and he gave us his brother.”

Morton Sahl became a comedian
after an abortive attempt at graduate
business school in Los Angeles. He
got his start at the “Hungry I” in

Remedy Proposed To Spark Fancy Dress Weekend:
Consolidation Of Hell Week And Social Event

should set up a Committee to in-
vestigate the merits of Consoli-
dating Hell Week and Fancy Dress.
(CIMCHWFD beats SWMSFC any
day).

Of course the other side of the
coin should be looked at, and so I
recommend that the IFC set up Posi-
tive and Negative sub-committees to
study the pros and cons of the
CIMCHWFD.

Now if this plan is brought into
action the next logical step is mov-
ing SIPA up a few weeks on the
schedule. If we tried real hard we
could all have alphabet soup.

 

Intellectual Interest Cited:
Sale Of Used Texts Indicative
Of A Student’s Academic Neglect

By MALCOLM BROWNLEE
Friday Columnist

Intellectualism and anti-intellec-
tualism have been subjects much dis-
cussed during the
current school
year. A columnist
in this paper at
the start of last
semester voiced
the opinion that
Dr. Cole has is-
sued in a new era
and that merely
striving for a
s Oe gentleman’s “C” is
Brownlee a thing of the

past. But another
columnist around Thanksgiving said
that Washington and Lee has no
right to call itself a liberal-arts uni-
versity and that a spirit of anti-
intellectualism prevails on our cam-
pus.

Usually I have sided with those
who believe that most students in
the university have genuine intel-
lectual interests. There are very few
students who try to get through
school with a minimum of effort in
the easiest courses and who have no
interest whatever in the knowledge
gained from their courses. A large
number of students take as elec-
tives courses reputed to be hard
but beneficial, although I will grant
that there are also many students
enrolled in courses which have a
reputation of being easy and of lit-
tle intellectual benefit to the stu-
dents taking them.

My faith in the intellect of our
student body is shaken, however, at
the end of each semester when I
see students waiting to sell their
textbooks for a fraction of what they
paid for them. To sell a course

   

 

"9

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

HOW TO PURR
IS A GREAT
HANDICAP!

 
     
 

 

 

textbook seems to me to be evidence
that neither the course or the text
will have much lasting value for
the student.

Most of the knowledge acquired
during a semester will be forgotten,
and textbooks provide a means of
renewing this knowledge quickly.
They are convenient source material
for future reference. A student who
sells his textbooks admits that he
learned little from the books or that
what he learned does not mean much.

The prices paid at the bookstore
indicate that some students’ evalua-
tion of their texts is very low in-
deed. A book for which the student
paid $7.00 may sell for 90c. A $5.00
book may bring 75c. A student who
considers what the money received
from the books (or the money whose
lack caused him to sell the books)
was spent for will probably ban
something about the position of in-
tellectual interests on his scale of
values.

I would like to say in parentheses
that it is possible that even an in-

dent encounters some courses and
texts which mean little to him. The
services of the book store for such
cases is not adequate. According to
Jim Sumner the present arrange-
ment is the most adequate of those
he has considered, although he him-
self is not satisfied with it. I urge
further investigation of possible im-
provements in this area. The pos-
sibility of the book store itself buy-
ing and selling second-hand books
might be considered though this
would admittedly involve complica-
tions.

But it is inconceivable that stu-

terests will want to sell eight or ten
books as some students are doing
each semseter. The fault lies not in
the book store, which seems to be
searching for ways of improving this
particular service, but in students
courses to give up the price of a
who are not interested enough in
their courses to give up the price of

 

a ticket to the flick in order to keep

quisitive student may want to sell |
a few of his textbooks. Every stu-|

LP Records & Television Enable
Americans To Enjoy Iconoclasm

| San Francisco. His topic was Mc-
Carthyism, but his monologue was
almost unsuccessful. The manager
of the “Hungry I” hired him on the
basis of his last joke. Sahl was com-
menting on the famous Eisenhower
jacket. “There ought to be a Mc-
Carthy jacket,’ he said, with “a
strap to go over your mouth.”

Today Sahl earns more than
$300,000 a year. His original au-
dience of Southern California col-
lege students now includes Adlai
Stevenson and President Kennedy,
who borrowed some of Sahl’s jokes
during the presidential campaign.

Sahl’s future plans include a net-
work show of his own, where he can
enjoy the same freedom as he has in
night clubs. He intends to get such
a show by building up a large audi-
ence which enjoys his iconoclasm in
its undiluted form. If Sahl gets his
television program, he will have an
audience that a H. L. Mencken or a
Will Rogers could never enjoy.
Sahl’s penetrating wit and perception
would be a welcome antidote to the
television opiate of Dinah Shore and
Perry Como, and to the senseless
ubiquity of Westerns and detective
programs.

R-t-Phi Subscriptions

Many outstanding events will take
place during the Spring term on
the W&L campus. To mention only
a few: International Relations Week,
The Phi Beta Kappa assembly, ODK
selections, the SIPA convention, ten-
nis, lacrosse, baseball, intramural
events, and Spring and Final dances.
These and many other events are
covered by and preserved in the two
weekly editions of the Ring-tum
Phi.

Realizing how hard it is for us,
here at school, to keep those at home
informed, the Ring-tum Phi would
like to offer a special rate of $2.50
for the balance of the semester in
order that parents, friends, alumni
and any incoming freshmen may be
kept in closer contact with the
school.

We would encourage you to send
in your subscription as soon as pos-
sible in order that all the second
semester issues be sent. We will be
glad to include back issues as long
as they hold out. Everyone certainly
should spend 10 cents an issue to
keep his parents and others informed
on the school.

The attached form may be filled
out and mailed to Box 899, Lexing-
ton, Va., or it may be given to either
Huntley Biggs—SAE or Pete Age-
lasto—Phi Kappa Psi. The payment
of $2.50 may be made now or a
bill could be sent to your parents.

etre rere eer errr Ts

SARE R EERE EEO EO eEe EE ee HE HeeEEneeeeseeeeeeeeeeeeneees
errr eee rite e errr rere eee errr

HER eee een eee Pe eee EeEESEDee EON EeeN eee eeEEEEEE ee neeeESeEeeneeeeseeS

Payment: Cash
Or send bill to:

APRSESENOAEE ORE EEOEESEEEOUESEEEE EGER EESESEEO HEE ENEEEEOEEEEOOESED

Pe eee r reer errr rer ters

 

Notice

All second semester fees, dormitory
rents and board were due on Jan.
30, 1961. They may be paid in the
office of the Treasurer, 4 Washington
Hall, any day between 9:00 a.m. and
4:00 p.m., or the bill may be sent
home upon request. Please give this
your prompt attention.

E. S. MATTINGLY, Treasurer

 

NOTICE

Anyone interested in writing a
humor column on alternate weeks
for the Friday Edition, should call
Roy Goodwin at the K.A, House,
HO 3-5382.

Che Ring-tum Phi

Friday Edition

The Ring-tum Phi is published Tues-
day and Friday durin tha college year.
It is printed by the Journalism Labor-
ore areas. aapinaton, and Lee Uni-
ve y. e mailing a
899, Lexington, Va, . 2. a

Entered as second class matter Sep-
tember 20, 1946 at the Post Office, Lax:
ington, Va., under the act of March

 

dents with many intellectual in-| 3.187

National Advertising Representative:
The National Advertisers ervice, Inc.,
420 Madison Ave., New York, N.Y.
Editor-in-Chief................ Nathan Simpson
Huntley Biggs
Editorial Board

 

  
 

 

their texts.

Managing Editor................ George Hon
Assistant Managing iiditor. sapohessianass ”
Wisbteteiaalideepbiddiease .Roy Goodwin
News Editor.. wide ~ Nea
Sports Editor .Bill Outman
Copy Editor... ‘Tom Jordan
Advertising Manager......Edward Holmes
Circulation Manager.......... Peter Agelesto

Office Mamager..i...ccccccesescssesssssss Don McFall

 

 

 

 
Generals Add

 

 

 

 

 

 

THE RING-TUM PHI

Page 3

 

 

 

Open Season

Here With H.s\l|_ 7 ‘ki |

Emory and Henry is the only new-
comer on Washington and Lee’s 1961
football schedule.

The Generals will meet Eé&H’s
Wasps, who won the Little Eight
conference championship and posted
an 8-2 record last year, Oct. 28 at
Wilson Field in W&L’s final game of
the year.

W&L has played Emory and Henry
only twice before. Both times the
Generals rolled to one-sided vic-

1961 Schedule

Sept 23—Hampden-Sydney......Home
Oct. 7—Franklin & Marshall... Away
Oct. 14—Randolph-Macon.......... Home

Oct. 2i—Johns Hopkine.............. Away
Oct. 28—Emory & Henry.......... Home
ROU. Be isisssssnicsncccacans Away
Nov. 11—Sewanee................008 Away

Nov. 18—Open
Nov. 23—Washington (Mo.)......Away

tories. In 1920, W&L tripped the
Wasps, 25-0; the next year the Gen-
erals opened their season with a
85-0 slaughter of E&H.

The Wasps replace Carnegie Tech
on the W&L schedule. Dickinson,
another 1960 opponent, is also absent
from the Generals’ 1961 slate. The
Generals will play only eight games
this fall.

Three home contests have been

 

scheduled. The Generals open their
(Continued on page 4)

 

KEN KOWALSKI
... Returns to Action

 

Hickey To Run 60-Yard Dash

 

Winter Track Season Opens
With VMI Relays Tomorrow

Washington and Lee opens its winter track season Saturday
night at 7 with the Virginia Military Institute Relays.

Coach Norman Lord will enter 15*

Generals in the meet, which is one
of the South’s largest indoor meets.
Other schools participating in the
meet are North Carolina, Duke,
Maryland, Navy, VMI, Virginia Tech,
William and Mary, Virginia, Rich-
mond, Hampden-Sydney, Bridge-
water, Randolph-Macon, Lynchburg,
Roanoke, Emory & Henry, Norfolk
Division of William and Mary, and
Gallaudet.

The meet will be conducted on an
event basis and no team scores will
be kept.

Captain Jim Hickey, the South
Boston “speedster,” who posted a
0:06.3 in the 60-yard dash last
year, has the best chance of plac-
ing for the Generals. Hickey and
sophomores Tom Edwards and
Dave Munroe are the only return-
ing lettermen on this year’s squad.

Edwards will compete in the broad
jump and Munroe will enter the shot
put competition. Freshman Robin
Kell is W&L’s other entrant in the
field events. He will participate in
the high jump.

In the individual running events,
freshman Fox Urquhart will join
Hickey in the 60-yard dash and
freshman John Pearson will run the
70-yard high hurdles.

W&L will enter two teams in
the relays. In the sprint medley,
which consists of two 220-yard
dashes, one 440, and one 880, Hick-
ey, Urquhart, Skip Essex, and Ker-
ede oe nde ode oe ode ode fe oe feof of oe ne fea ode ate ode ole fe afoot

CALL BY NUMBER
and Save Time

LEXINGTON
TELEPHONE CO.

 

 

 

Heleleferfertefertere

a se

”
oe ofo fe ofeofefe ode eafe ote ode ode ofeotefeoteobeoteoteoteafeate |

 

ry Reynolds will carry the W&L
colors.

In the distance relay, Essex will
run a 440; Reynolds will run an 880,
Mack Brownlee will run _three-
quarters of a mile, and Mike Shank,
cross-country star, will run the
anchor mile.

Coach Lord expects a good show-
ing from the winter track team in
the relays.

Other winter track meets include
the State Meet here February 18
and the Freshman Invitational Meet
here February 24.

 

It’s Good usiness

To Do usiness
with IERER’S

PHARMACY

 

 

 

 

Joke of ne fefe ofa fe fe oe oe oe oho nfo ae re ve age eof e ofeofe oe

Baker
Ford Sales

t

a |
BETTER DEALS
:

4
q
4
*
4
4
4
“
4
4
9
+
4
4
4
~
4
4
4
7
4 CLEARANCE

' of lot for 1961 Models
4

4

7 NEW AND

7 USED CARS

4

; Highway 60 East

4

ay
obo oooteote ot oteobetesteobeseooteoteobeteoteobedeateoteote

 

FOR ROOM RESERVATIONS—CALL HO 3-2151
LEXINGTON MOTEL
Large Rooms—U. S.
Free TV—Phones—Continental Breakfast
Only Motel in corporate limits of Lexington

11 By-Pass South

 

DIXON’S

ESSO SERVICE CENTER
ROUTE 60 EAST IN LEXINGTON

Across from the White Top Resturant
HO 3-

Wash, Grease, Lube, Road Service

Charge Accounts Welcome

4214

 

& H To Grid Schedule

GENERALS FACE HAMPDEN-SYDNEY SATURDAY

 

Return Of The ‘Killer’ Ups W&L Chances
Of Winning First Away Game In Two Years

By JOHN ALLGOOD
Assistant Sports Editor

“Killer” Kowalski returns to action
tomorrow night just in time to give
the Generals an added punch that
might snap their 14-game road losing
streak.

Kowalski, sidelined since Christ-
mas with a bad knee, probably will
not start but will see plenty of ac-
tion against Hampden-Sydney’s fast-
breaking Tigers tomorrow night at
Hampden-Sydney.

The return of the “Killer,” who
has a 10.7 scoring average, should
help take up the scoring slack
created by the loss of 6-7 fresh-
man center John McDowell.

Coach Bob McHenry plans to start
6-4 sophomore Jack Culley at cen-
ter against Hampden-Sydney. But
McHenry also has planned some new
offensive patterns for the Tigers.

“We may use a 3-2 offense part of
the game for a change of pace. I
don’t especially like the 3-2, but it
is good for driving in because it
leaves the middle open. Its drawback
is that it hurts our rebounding
strength,’ McHenry said.

A second new offense that Mc-
Henry is contemplating for use
against smaller teams like H-S and

* Lynchburg is to have W&L come up

the court in a 3-2 and then put
Kowalski in the middle.

“Kowalski is a good man inside,
but we can only use this offense
against small teams because of the
height factor,’ McHenry said.

McHenry scouted Hampden-Syd-
ney Wednesday night as they lost to
Roanoke, 102-90. The W&L coach’s
only comment on the Tigers’ play:

“They can score!”

Score indeed. The Tigers are
averaging 75 points per game so
far. Washington and Lee has passed
the 75-point mark only twice this
year. Once when it beat Hampden-
Sydney, 79-67, at Lexington and the
other time was a 78-56 win over
Sewanee.

Hampden-Sydney put four men in
double figures in its loss to W&L—
Norwood Davis, 15; Bill Hardin, 14;
Butch Cox, 13; and Dave Wilson, 10.
But the Tigers lost Wilson, who

| sparked them to their upset win over
| Randolph-Macon at Ashland, at the
| semester break because of academic
| troubles.

Still the Tigers are like a pack
of racehorses when it comes to scor-
|ing. Their main drawback has been
a so-so defense which has been un-
| able to contain even their weakest
opponents.

| McHenry’s main worry now is
| getting the team into shape for the
'H-S game after a two-week layoff.

 

 

Begins February

It’s Spring (?)—Football Practice

13 Despite Snow

Despite any lingering snow or ice Washington and Lee’s
spring football practice will begin February 13.

 

Anyone interested in playing foot-* a

ball at Washington and Lee may
go out for spring practice. Coach
Lee McLaughlin emphasized that
spring practice was not limited to
varsity and freshmen football play-
ers.

Spring Football Meeting

Coach McLaughlin announced

Prospects for next year look
bright. The Generals lose only nine
men of their 1960 squad which
posted an 8-0-1 record and should
get some help from the 1960 fresh-
man team, which was termed one of
the best frosh teams in recent years.

 

 

 

 

there would be a meeting of all men |
planning to go out for spring football |
practice Monday, February 8, at
2 p.m. in the gymnasium.

Traditional
W&L BLAZER

With University Crest

Practice will last two weeks and
and Buttons

the annual spring football game will

be played Saturday, February 25. The

COLLEGE TOWN
Shop

February Banquet

A banquet will be held February
25 for the members of the spring
practice teams. Gil Bocetti, who
quarterbacked Washington and Lee’s |
Gator Bowl squad in 1950, will be

Student Charge Accounts

 

Welcomed

 

 

 

the guest speaker at the banquet.

Three players—Dave Grogan, Dick
Brandt, and Steve Rutledge—de-
veloped blisters Tuesday and had
to stop practicing early. Several other
players have milder cases of blisters.

“Because of the blisters, we haven’t
been able to scrimmage. I don’t know
what kind of shape we’ll be in Sat-
urday.”

McHenry’s strategy for Hampden-
Sydney’s fast-break is a controlled
offense.

“Now that our rebounding is weak-

(Continued on page 4)
DE ee oe nde ee eed oe ole oe of fe fede ete rer

 

*
ROBERT E. LEE z
BARBERSHOP z
David M. Moore
Proprietor
va he ode ole ee oe oe oe oe eee odode lee oleedo deo oeoteode

 

 

Lexington
Laundro Matic

209 S. Main

*

HAND IRONED
SHIRTS

Dry Cleaning

Service

for your convenience

 

 

 

 

Tareyton delivers the flavor...

Tareyton

 

Here’s one filter cigarette that’s really different!

The difference is this: Tareyton’s Dual Filter gives you a
unique inner filter of ACTIVATED CHARCOAL, definitely proved to
make the taste of a cigarette mild and smooth. It works together with
a pure white outer filter—to balance the flavor elements in the smoke.
Tareyton delivers—and you enjoy —the best taste of the best tobaccos.

THE TAREYTON RING
MARKS THE REAL THING!

 

 

Pure white outer filter

pu ruin La rev O7i ...wee ee.
Page 4

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

 

7 ALL SUMMER

2S

LONG THE BIRDS

———~—f AROUND HERE DROVE

|__| ME CRAZY WITH
: THEIR SILLY

Es a i ee

 

Now THEY'VE ALL FLOWN
SOUTH FOR THE WINTER, AND

IT'S REAL QUET... ”

 

 

 

 

 

“Coprs 100 by Unned Peanre byndicmm, me}

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Law Association

To Meet Feb. 25

The Washington and Lee Law
School Association will hold its next
meeting on February 25 in Tucker
Hall. During this meeting a schedule
of future activities will be discussed.
The group is composed of lawyers
who are alumni of either the W&L
undergraduate or Law Schools.

The purpose of the association is
to enlighten and encourage the in-
terest of the alumni in the instruc-
tional programs of the School of
Law of Washington and Lee Univer-
sity.

The association was founded in
1953 with an initial enrollment of
112 members. It has grown steadily
since then to its present member-
ship of 500.

Several of the past projects of the
association include sponsorship of the
Moot Court Competition, additions to
the law library, a law internship
program during the summer, and
the establishment of a “Law Day.”

The annual meeting of the asso-
ciation will be held during the
Tucker Lectures (April 21 and 22).

 

 

STATE

LEXINGTON, VA.

 

 

LASTS TIMES SATURDAY

   

Gable Monroe
on ston ALIN
Thema iter Eli Walach

itr ler Fra Ear ohn Histon

Music by Alex North Released thru United Artists

 

SUNDAY

“WHY CAN'T
| STOP?”

M-G-M presents

ELIZABETH TAYLOR
LAURENCE HARVEY /
EDDIE. FISHER

Ss

in JOHN O'HARA'S

“BUTTERFIELD
cinemascore + METROCOLOR

 

 

 

Dr. Phillips’ Report

(Continued from page 1)

Dr. Phillips joined the Washing-
ton and Lee faculty in 1959. He has
written articles on current economic
problems for six different journals.

He received his A.B. degree from
the University of New Hampshire
and his M.A. and Ph.D. degrees from
Harvard University.

 

Spring Practice To Begin

(Continued from page 3)

season with Hampden-Sydney Sep-
tember 23 and play Randolph-Macon
October 14.

The Generals will play five away
games, including the traditional sea-
son’s closer with Washington (Mo.)
Uniiversity of St. Louis. The other
away games are with Franklin &
Marshall, Johns Hopkins, Centre,
and Sewanee.

 

5
e
B
o
B.
8
o
B

and Lancer
America’s First Fine
ECONOMY CAR
*

Rockbridge Motor Co.
INC.

Phone HObart 3-3146

 

 

 

TETLOW
TV Service

221 S. Main HO 3-2841

 

 

 

 

SPENCER

General Tire

E. Nelson Street Extension

Best in Tires
GENERAL

Best in Recapping
Kraft Tread

Compact Tires

 

 

 

make ce

 

The Wild One

MARLON BRANDO

Held Over

FRI-SAT.

 

 

——o
* ALL THE

GLORY AND
GREATNESS OF

 

 
    

Seniors Offered Grants
For Study In History

Graduating Washington and Lee
seniors have been offered a chance
to receive one of the more than
two hundred fellowships currently
available for graduate work in his-
tory. At least twenty-two American
colleges and universities have noti-
fied the W&L history department of
grants and scholarships to be award-
ed promising 1961 graduates. Includ-
ed among the institutions offering
aid are Northwestern, Iowa State,
University of Virginia, South Caro-
lina, Tulane, Emory, Duke, Univer-
sity of Texas, Pittsburgh, Universi-
ty of Rochester, Stanford, University
of Maryland, and Indiana.

The available teaching, research,
and student grants offer stipends
ranging from $1,500-$3,750. Further
information on these and other fel-
lowships in various fields of history
is posted on the bulletin board on
the third floor of Washington Hall.

 

IRW Feb. 7-9

(Continued from page 1)

to stimulate the interest of students
in international affairs and their im-
portance for the welfare of the
American nation and to develop a
responsible attitude toward actions
of the American Government that
affect other nations.

Primarily responsibility for ar-
ranging the program is upon Profes-
sor John M. Gunn, but he is assisted
by Dr. Harvey Wheeler, who origi-
nated the program at W&L and was
its director durings its first four
years. Working with these members
of the faculty are the members of
the International Relations Club,
of which Hunter Tracht is president
and Ed Gay is secretary-treasurer.

 

Kowalski Back In Lineup

(Continued from page 3)

er we will have to play for the

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Dr. Flournoy’s Narration

Contributes to FD Success
(Continued from page 1)

great houses of England. During the
presentation of the set the Brass
Choir, situated on the track above
the floor, played music in the old
English style.

The crowning climax of the set
was the presentation of sashes to
the six vice presidents by King James
(Partington) and to Shakespeare (Dr.
Flournoy). Hence forth, the cham-

berlain Players were to be royal |

servants in the favor of the court.

 

 

 

 

THE DUTCH INN

For Reservation Call
MRS. KATHERINE ADAMS
HO 3-3433

 

 

West Point Impresses Vann
(Continued from page 2)

While W&L has SIPA, only for high
school students, we could well profit
from an opportunity for exchange
that such a national conference could
provide.

 

 

BROWN’S
CLEANING

WORKS
We Call for and Deliver
24 Hour Service
Student agents in the
dormitory and fraternities
HO 3-2013 14 Randolph St.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Heeeoeseceroerrororerrrs

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

,
good shots. Hampden-Sydney will|| TOLLEY’S PHARMACY : R. L. Hess and Bro. :
try to run us to death; therefore, Prescriptions Filled JEWELERS
Rowe Goes On Duty Tour we'll have to slow the game down Immediately : ial Virgini
5s : ; : n, Virginia
(Continued from page 1) — They can’t run without the PURCHASE DRUGS é a ae
Bill Young, a Delta Upsilon soph-|___ HO 3-2211 *
omore from Lebanon, N. J., will do| eeseceeeeceececceeceeeee Seber ete rtee ste stetestetere debe toh bebe
the photography work for the Infor-| © Ore SR ——————E
mation Services. His photographic 3 TEXACO : ; pian ]
, in hi : : {||
— i i oe oe Fad = “ Super Service Station : Waggy s J ewelers }/t HICKMAN’S ESSO |
past year and a half. Young does| ® Lexington, Virginia ® 35 5. Main Strest WK —a or :
free-lance photography here as well|@ | Corner Main and Nelson Phone HO 3-4121 II HO 3-2024 4
as in his home town. Secccccccccccccccccccces THE HOME OF QUALITY : z
4
LESTETESETERET ESTE SEES Senet eee eee Al inna n nnn anna nner nnnne —
; NEW TOWN INN ? Hamric and Sheridan || ~
z JEWELERS
* Short Orders—Lunches : Watch and Jewelry Repair THE COLLEGE INN
% F Hand Engraving and Class Rings
* Catering to Students HO 3.2022 s
* - The Best Food in Town
ere oho rfefe nfo nfo fe nfo ofe rte ole ole ake she vfe ole of ole nfo she fe sfonde
American and Italian
FOREIGN CARS ig STUDEBAKER LARKS Catering to the Students, Faculty,
CUR SPRCIALET and Towns People
Expert Motor Work Open 8:00 a.m.—8:00 p.m. ND
MAIN STREET MOBIL STATION OPEN SU AYS
\. Ss,

 

 

 

 

 

“| DON'T THINK THERE’S ANY END
TO THE OPPORTUNITY IN THIS BUSINESS"

When Gene Segin got his B.S. in Business Ad-
ministration at the University of Illinois, he was
in touch with 8 prospective employers.

Gene joined Illinois Bell Telephone Company
because: “The people I talked to here made it
very clear that I would not be shuffled into some
narrow specialized job. I thought this job offered
the greatest opportunity for broad experience.”

On his first assignment Gene was sent to Spring-
field where he conducted courses in human rela-
tions for management people.

His next move was to a traffic operations job
in Rock Island. On this assignment he was in
charge of all personnel who are directly responsible
for handling telephone calls in this heavily popu-

lated area. Here

Gene earned a reputation for

sound judgment and skill in working with people.
He was promoted to Traffic Supervisor.

 

 

 

 

Frederick R. Kappel, President

American Telephone & Telegraph Co.

 

 

 

Today, Gene’s chief responsibilities are in man-
agement training and development, and company-
union relations. The latter includes contract bar-
gaining and helping settle labor disputes.

How does Gene feel about his job? “It’s a real
challenge. I’m in some of the most vital and in-
teresting work in the country.” And about the
future—“Well there aren’t any pushover jobs
around here. It’s tough. But if a man has what it
takes, 1 don’t think there’s any end to the oppor-

tunity in this business.”

* *

*

If you're looking for a job with no ceiling on it—a job
where you're limited only by how much responsibility
you can take and how well you can handle it—then
you'll want to visit your Placement Office for literature
and additional information on the Bell Companies.

“Our number one aim is to have in all
management jobs the most vital, intelli-
gent, positive and imaginative men we
can possibly find.”

 

BELL TELEPHONE COMPANIES

 

 
 

TUESDAY
Edition

Che King-tum Phi

Washington and Lee Semi-Weekly Newspaper

TUESDAY
Edition

 

Volume LXI

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA, FEBRUARY 7, 1961

Number 33

 

vr

Professors Receive Glenn Grants
Fraternities Initiate 170 In Weekend

Ritual, Formal Dinners Noted; j
ZBI’s To Initiate Later

eee
Fijis,
Washington and Lee fraternities
have announced the initiation of

170 students who have completed
their pledge requirements.

Beta Theta Pi

Peter Barber, George Craddock,
Steve Davenport, Whit Fitzpatrick,
Dan Flournoy, Sandy Galt, George
Grant, Jim Haley, Phil Lemon, John
Madison, Julian Markham, Buck
Ogilvie, Steve Parel, John Roy, and
Brent Wells.

Delta Tau Delta

Charlie Begg, Ken Brandenburgh,
Mal Freeman, Brice Gambler, Bill
Gossman, Dave Grogan, Ed Jansen
John McDaniel, John Michaelson,
Nick Monseratt, Billy Myers, John
Pearson, Cotton Rawls, Fred Schaef-
fer, Glen Thornhill, Wig Wiggins,
Steve Walsh, and Steve Wilson.

Delta Upsilon
Ed Burdell, Bob Cafferata, Dick
Colton, Ed Eadie, Bob Foreston, Paul
Gilbert, Warren Holden, Frost Jack-
son, Jon Kooke, Bruce Moss, John
McCoy, Pete Noonan, Sam Preston,
and John Wiggs.
Kappa Alpha
David Black, Arthur Broadus,
Mike Brumby, Peter Candler, Ed
Croft, Phil Farnsworth, Ken Greer,
Bob Henley, Frank Jones, Wilmont
Kidd, Hobby Morrison, Tom Rankin,
Herb Smith, and Matt Thompson.

Kappa Sigma
Bob Brewer, Ben Chapman, Rich-
ard Cruse, Reid Dennis, Bill Fitz,
Tom Goar, Bill Gotten, Bill Kinsey,
Tom Pace, Jim Sylvester, and John
Watts.
Lambda Chi Alpha
Lon Atkins, Bruce Chosney, Al
Eckes, Richard McEnally, Bob Fus-
sell, Lynn Hammond, Scott Hard-
wick, John Hilker, Ray Kidwell,
John Lackey, Bob Mottley, and Don
Palmer.
Phi Delta Theta
Bob Carlson, Spence McEvoy,
Charlie Gaines, Ken Lane, Gus Wal-
ton, George Wick, and Randy Woot-
en.
Phi Epsilon Pi

Ken Rosenweig and John Samet.

Phi Kappa Psi

Pete Alford, Dave Britt, Ernie
Levering, Walt McManus, Chick
Owens, Jud Reis, Jay Smith, Barry

 

Staniar, Spence Stouffer, Jim Wearn,

Jeff Williams, and John Winebren-
ner.
Phi Kappa Sigma
Bud Hollman, Pete Johnson, Jack
Kiely, Bruce MacDonald, Bill Mar-
mion, Jim Mell, Mac McNease, Pat
Patterson, Les Rucker, George
Spaulding, and Bill Tedards.
Pi Kappa Alpha
Eddie Dickson, Dick Goode, Robert
E. Lee, Conway Shield, George Sis-
ler, Dick Spencer, and Fox Urquhart,

Pi Kappa Phi

Phil Booth, Rick Boye, Joseph
Couch, Rutledge Currie, Tim Dols,
Kim Kimbell, Jim Horton, Floyd
McKinnon, and Rutledge Currie.

Sigma Alpha Epsilon

Bud Allen, John Baker, A. J. Bar-
ranco, Bill Bowen, Sid Butler, Skip
Hickenlooper, Harvey Jones, Ed

(Continued on page 4)

 

Debate Team Defeated:
Buice Gains Final Round In
Extemporaneous Speaking

Despite the cruelest storm of New
England’s bitterest winter in more
than forty years—including temper-
atures reading ten below zero and
a blizzard that dropped fourteen
inches of snow in les than twenty-
four hours—the debate team still
made a credible showing in the
Eighth Annual Harvard University
Forensic Tournament held at Cam-
bridge Feb. 2, 3, and 4.

Bill Buice taking part in the Ex-
temporaneous Speaking Contest sur-
vived the preliminary round, ad-
vanced to the finals and was judged
one of the top six speakers from a
list of at least seventy-five students
representing some fifty schools. Bill
Boardman, Pete Struab, and John
Court also were entered in this
contest.

In debating, Buice and Boardman
debated both sides of the question—
Resolved: That the United States
should adopt a program of compul-
sory health insurance for all citizens.
Washington and Lee drew in two
rounds back-to-back Holy Cross,
the strongest Eastern team at the
tournament, and then Northwestern’s
National championship team 1958-
1960. These were the only two teams
from a field of seventy-five schools
including Harvard and Dartmouth.

 

IRW Opens In Chapel Tonight
With Speech By Eminent Socialist

By TOM LYBASS

Norman Thomas, eminent Ameri-
can exponent of socialism, opens
Washington and Lee’s Seventh An-
nual International Relations Week
tonight at 7:15 p.m. at Lee Chapel
with an address entitled “An Ameri-
can Socialist Views the East-West
Conflict.”

Tomorrow night Dr. Malcolm
Moos, former aide to President
Eisenhower, speaks on “The Presi-
dency and Foreign Affairs.” The
time for the lecture has been
changed from the previously an-
nounced 8 to 7:30 p.m.

The third speaker in the series,
Dr. Abraham Kreusler, chairman of
the Department of Russian Studies
at Randolph-Macon Woman’s Col-
lege,
lations Week with a lecture on “The
True Nature of the Russian Chal-
lenge” on Thursday night.

The speakers differ in points of
view. Effective spokesman for their
positions, Thomas, Moos, and Kreus-
ler will state their views on foreign
policy, especially as it is involved
with the Free World’s efforts to
counter the Sino-Soviet threat.

Mr. Thomas, described by one ob-
server as a “well-educated, articu-
late Princetonian,” will be the
spokesman for liberal thought.
Drawing from at least forty years
in public affairs, Thomas is expected
to display the powers which have

concludes International Re--

made him a creative and construc-
tive thinker in the American liberal
movement.

Dr. Moos, who soon will resume his
duties as Professor of Political Sci-
ence at Johns Hopkins University,
after having served as President
Eisenhower’s speech writer, is ex-
pected to give a reasoned statement
of the Administration’s position.

Dr. Kreusler, holding a doctorate
from the University of Cracow (Po-
land), came to the United States
from the Western Ukraine in 1947.
His lecture Thursday night concerns
post-Stelinist developments in Rus-
sia and their implications for the
West. It is his contention that the
Russian government is under great
pressure internally to make peaceful
approsches toward the West and
that this pressure presents the West
with a great opportunity for nego-
tiation.

Complimenting Washington and
Lee’s IRC Week will be a similar
program at VMI next week. The
theme will be “The United Nations
and the World-Power Conflict.”

Dr. Joseph Johnson, President of
the Carnegie Endowment for Inter-
national Peace, will be the featured
speaker. He is scheduled to lecture
in Jackson Hall on Thursday, Feb.
16. The public is invited.

Dr. Johnson was born at Longdale
Furnace, Virginia, just outside Rock-

 

bridge County, near Clifton Forge.

 

To Be Shown

By RICHARD CRUSE

A photography exhibit from the
Metropolitan Museum of Fine Arts
in New York City will be shown
here Feb. 13-27 in duPont Hall. The
program is being sponsored by Dr.
Marion Junkin, professor of art at
Washington and Lee. Dr. Junkin
said that this collection is reputed
to be one of the finest exhibits of
photography ever shown.

The display consists of eighty-five
pictures, fifty-five in black and white
and thirty in color. The photographs
were chosen by a board of experts
who reviewed thousands of pictures
from many sources including popu-
lar and specialized magazines, in-
dustrial libraries, advertising agen-
cies, the Pulitzer Prize Committee’s
resources at Columbia University, art
schools, agents, art directors, and
other authorities in the field of pho-
tography. Many of the pictures se-
lected were by such distinguished
photographers as Phillip Harrington,
Leo Lionni, John Vachon, Bob

Eisenstadt.
Ivan Dimitri, a member of the
council of photography in the Fine

view that “Each of the photographs
had evoked or communicated an idea,
a mood or an emotion; each had been
created with artistic integrity and an
aesthetic appeal.” He goes on to say
that “These are not the greatest
photographs of this or any time.
These are some of the fine photo-
graphs that are, however, represen-

 

photographers. ...there is no precise

tographs, or doodles. This exhibit |
is no more than it purports to be.”

M etropolitan Photo Exhibit

In duPont

The members of the board which
selected the photographs are as fol-
lows: Alexander Liberman, art di-
rector of Vogue; Dorothy Seiberling,
art editor of Life; Joyce C. Hall,
president of Hallmark Cards; Frank
Baker, senior art director of Mc-
Cann-Erickson; Bartlett H. Hayes,
director of the Addison Gallery of
American Art; Grace Mayer, curator
of the Museum of the City of New
York; Bryan Holme, editor of Studio
Books; James J. Rorimer, director of
the Metropolitan Museum of Art;
Dr. Alfred Frankfurter, editor of
Art News.

Other members include

(Continued on page 4)

Hyatt

 

|

For Study

Ceremonies

University Departments To Split
$4,419 For Research Programs

Eleven Washington and Lee Uni-
versity professors will share $4,419 in
university funds for support of re-
search and study projects during
1961, Dean William W. Pusey, III,
announced today.

The awards, ranging from $200 to
$900 in individual stipends, are part
of a Washington and Lee program
which promotes continuing scholar-
ship among faculty members and in-
creasing teaching effectiveness in
classrooms and laboratories.

Now in its eighth year, the pro-
gram, is supported by the John M.
Glenn Fund, established in 1953
through a $120,000 gift from the late
philanthropist. Glenn was an of-
ficial of the Russell Sage Founda-
tion and a member of the class of

 

Sandberg, H. Landsdorff, and Alfred

tative of the outstanding work be- | ~
ing done today by contemporary

way to assemble in one place the ©
greatest of anything; painting, pho- |

Washington And Lee Law Professor Granted Fellowship;

 
    

Arts stated in The Saturday Re- |. -

Mr. Huntley

Will Study And Teach At Harvard University Next Fall

Robert E. R. Huntley, associate
professor of law at Washington and
Lee University, has been granted
a $6,750 Fellowship in Law Teach-
ing for a year’s study at Harvard
University.

He will begin his studies in Sep-
tember and resume his teaching
duties at Washington and Lee in
September, 1962, according to Law
School Dean Charles P. Light, Jr.

The special grant comes from funds
at Harvard.

Huntley, who received his A.B.
degree from Washington and Lee in
1950 and his LL.B. (summa cum
laude) here in 1957, has been a mem-
ber of the university’s faculty since
1958. He was associated with the
Alexandria law firm of Boothe,
Dudley, Koontz & Boothe for a year
after his graduation. He is 31.

A member of Phi Beta Kappa and
Order of the Coif, Huntley served

(Continued on page 4)

 

Bob Allen has been selected by
Troubadour director Cecil D. Jones
to act the title role in the forth-
coming Troub production of Pir-
andello’s “Henry IV.” Bob has ap-
peared frequently on the Henry
Street stage, his last appearance
being in this season’s opening pro-
duction, “The Lady’s not for Burn-
ing.”

There are two women’s roles in the
play, which deals with the actions
of a wealthy Italian aristocrat who
imagines himself to be the German
emperor Henry IV. Susan Howard,

 

a Lexington High School senior, a

 

not been set as yet.

veteran Troubadour, plays an at-
tractive niece of Henry IV. Mrs. Bet-
ty Saunders, a Lexington housewife,
will be performing in Lexington for
the first time as his sister.

Three freshmen are making their
Troubadour debuts in this produc-
tion. They are Bob Aylin, playing
one of Henry’s courtiers, Bill Gotten,
as a servant and Bob Fussell as a
member of the Italian nobility. Andy
Adelson, appearing as a member of
the royal retenue, is making his first
appearance also.

The Troub business manager
Frank D’Lauro who has served the

 

Troubs Select Cast For “Henry IV’

theatre in backstage capacities for
three years has for the first time ac-
cepted an acting role. He, along
with Troub favorites John Dunnell
and Mervyn Clay, makes up the rest
of Henry IV’s court.

Three popular Troubadours are
presenting character roles in Henry
IV. Tim Morton, who stopped the
show in “The Lady’s not for Burn-
ing,” is playing the Baron Tito
Belcredi. Jim Applebaum, making his
return to the Troub stage after a
season’s absence, portrays a psy-

chologist, and Scott Iacone is appear-
ing as Henry’s faithful servant.

 

 

The stars of the Troub Theatre cast run through an early rehearsal. The dates for the production, Henry IV, have

—Photo by Young

 

1879 at Washington and Lee. Prior
to the Glenn program, a $25,000 grant
from the Carnegie Foundation was
used to promote faculty scholarship
from 1951 to 1953.

Most recipients will conduct their
research during summer vacation,
although they have until December
1 to complete their projects, Dean
Pusey said.

Dean Pusey said several addition-
al Glenn grants may be awarded
later this year.

Those receiving 1961 grants are:

Dr. Jay D. Cook, for research on
national income accounting.

Dr. Sidney M. B. Coulling, English,
for research at the Huntington Li-
brary on the influence of Jonathan
Swift on Thomas Carlyle.

Dr. Cecil D. Eby, Jr., English, for
research on certain American authors
in the Boston area in connection with
an advanced American literature
course which he will teach next year.

Prof. Thomas E. Ennis, Jr., ac-
counting, for study at several large
public accounting firms, including
interviews and observations concern-
ing new developments in public ac-
counting.

Dr. Fitzgerald Flournoy, English,
for study of Shakespeare and Eliza-
bethan drama at Stratford-on-Avon
and the University of Birmingham
summer school.

Dr. Thomas P. Hughes, history,
for work in Cambridge, Mass., on
a project begun last year, “An In-
ternational History of the Electrical
Industry, 1870-1914.”

Dr. James G. Leyburn, sociology,
for study at the University of North
Carolina and Duke University on
recent developments in sociological
theory and methods, and a study of
the organization of the undergradu-
ate major in sociology at these
schools.

Dr. Stanley T. Lowry, economics,
for study of land use, history and
potential in the Rockbridge County
area, including an analysis of market-
ing possibilities for timber and other
resources.

Prof. Wilfred J. Ritz, law for
preparation of a final manuscript
for a “Bibliography of Virginia Legal
History Prior to 1800.”

Prof. Robert Stewart, fine arts, to
attend the Bennington Composers
Conference.

Dr. Charles W. Turner, history, for
research and study in Western
American history at the University
of California.

 

Class Rings Still Available

It was announced yesterday that
the official sale of Washington and
Lee University rings had closed with
fair success. However, individual
rings can still be obtained and will
be ordered in the last shipment which
is to be sent in sometime next week.

Several different stones are avail-
able for the gold rings which range
in basic price from $30.50 to $36.95.
A student’s initials, degree, and year
of graduation are engraved at no
extra cost. Also available is gold
crusting on the face of the ring, at
a price of $1.50 per letter. Most men
have their fraternity or similar or-
ganizations thus engraved.

Individual orders may be placed
with any member of the Student
War Memorial Scholarship Fund
Committee (SWMSFC). Jerry Dattel
said, “I will be happy to accommo-
date any men wishing to order a
ring.” Dattel can be reached either
at the ZBT House, HO 3-4633, or at
his apartment, 201-E Nelson Street,
HO 3-5274.,

Notices
There will be a meeting of all

reporters on Wednesday at 7:30
p.m, in the Student Union.

SWMSFC will meet tonight at
6:45 in the Student Union.

There will be a meeting of the
Assimilation Committee tonight.
 

 

 

Page 2

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

Che Ring-tum Phi

Tuesday

Edition

Member of Virginia Intercollegiate Press Association

 

Hell Week Again

Last week we suggested two alternatives to the hell and help
week controversy. 1) That the students take it upon themselves
to do away with the most barbarous practices connected with
the old help week and attempt to turn the week into a help
week emphasizing constructive work within the various houses
and around the community. 2) That the administration take
some action on the matter which would put an end to any week
of strenuous activity prior to initiation into the fraternity.

We feel that such a week is necessary. We trust that the ad-
ministration will take no immediate action. In the event that no
adminstrative action is taken, we hope that the students will

take it upon themselves to work

out through the various organs

of student government some sort of plan to turn hell week into

the much discussed help week.

The Interfraternity Council is the obvious place to initiate
action. This body can do nothing without student support, which
it has every right to expect, despite the failure of the plan for
a help week that was turned down in a final vote Monday

before exams began.

In past years, Washington and Lee has been unique in the
amount of free student government that has been maintained,
especially with regard to matters concerning the fraternity sys-
tem and other social activities. Of late, the trend has been to-
ward more administrative restriction in fields formally left to
the student government. (EC, IFC, Dance Board, etc.)

We hope that in the future this trend will reverse itself, and
that the reins of student government will tend to fall back into
the hands of the students. This goal can be attained only if
the students are willing to make changes which are in keeping
with the general trend of events on our campus.

If the individual students will empower their IFC repre-

sentatives

to agree to some plan similar to the “positive-

negative” plan worked out and presented to the students during
the first semester, the necessity for administrative action con-
cerning the hell week problem will be eliminated.

Concerning Mr. Thomas...

Norman Thomas, who speaks tonight in Lee Chapel, has
earned a reputation as a far-sighted political observer. On num-
erous occasons he has predicted future problems and their
sources far before other observers. The article on this page
tells of his stands in the past which, while strongly opposed,
have been proven wise and eminently practical by time.

Mr. Thomas has long been respected by both his supporters
and his political opponents as a man who combines the highest
idealism with a sure grasp of political and economic realities.
And history has shown him less a visionary than an eminently
practical and worthwhile contributor to our contemporary
theory of government. It will be interesting to hear what he

has to say tonight.

IRC Lecturers

 

Thomas and Moos: What To Expect

 

IT'S EERIE,
THAT'S WHAT
IT 1s

S|

Sa

=

/
yi

SS

 

 

 

 

ITS EERIE.KNOWING THAT

SOMEWHERE OUT IN THAT

DARKNESS THE “MAD
PUNTER” {9 LURKING...

ITN
Nee

SSE

we

ANYONE WHO OWNS A
FOOTBALL WILL NOT SLEEP,
WELL TONIGHT!

 

   

 

—~
e

U

SJ,

-

 

Webster Unabridged

 

Case Of The Missing Reserve Book
Or, Major Foxes The Old Man

(Today’s column is written by
avant-garde novelist PAUL T.
WILLIS.)

“Gentlemen,” the professor said,
“I've found a book which comes
closer than any other on this
subject. It’s called An Englishman
Looks at Ultimate Truth, by Plautus
McTotter. I want you all to read it
and write a short report for future
reference. It will be on the reserve
shelf.”

It was Thursday, and we had a
big quiz scheduled for the coming
Tuesday. If past performances could
be any clue, the basis for the quiz
would be found right in that reserve

| book. I looked at Igor and he at me;

we knew what must be done.
After class he followed me down-
stairs as I pretended to buy a Coke.

“What about this quiz?” he said.
“Looks pretty tough,” I said.

Well, you know what to do. Ill
meet you in the stacks at quarter
past four.”

as * *

When I got to the library a little
after four, I could tell it wasn’t go-
ing to be easy. The Old Man was on
the desk. I stood for a minute pre-
tending to look over the new books,

 

then walked quickly to the card ecata-
logue, pulling out “A-Ambivalent.”

U. S. Threatened With Commune Spirit

By HUGO HOOGENBOOM

Recent press reports indicate that
the Communist Chinese are giving
up some of the more stringent re-
quirements of their communes, ad-
mitting that communal incentive is
not providing the “Great Leap For-
ward” with the necessary thrust. In
the United States we all cluck our
tongues and point with horror at the
excesses of the Chinese communes,
thinking smugly we would never be
so ignorant.

We too, however, are victims of
the communal trend, even if not to
so great an extent. Right here at
Washington and Lee we have the
Commons, the avowed purpose of
which is to create a more communal
feeling (it may be differently ex-

 

pressed) among the freshmen. Lead-
ing voices on campus, both faculty
and student, denounce the fraternity
system as a divisive influence (thus:
non-communal).

On a larger scale, we have group-
therapy, group dynamics, the nation-
al government has task force, teams,
and even a committee on National
Purpose.

The small groups, like fraternities,
Commons, etc., are harmless because
they contain too few individuals.
Nations, however, are in danger be-
cause their very size renders con-
trol of the group by its individual
members impossible, and a nation
has life of its own, separate from the
citizenry.

So long as the nation exists pri-

 

marily to provide an orderly society
for its individual citizens, there is
little danger. When, however, it also
takes on functions properly belong-
ing to individuals or smaller groups
within the nation, it becomes a state,
a living thing. When these functions
come under national control, the
power of the individual to change
policy is greatly diluted, and the
power of the national bureaucrats
or managers is correspondingly
strengthened. A bureaucrat tends to
regard the function which he serves
as an end in itself, and will strive
to keep it in existence even if its
purpose has ended. Enough of these
functions and bureaucrats will give
a state the most important character-

(Continued on page 4)

 

The Old Man was grinning faintly
as he made up his fatal third notices.
Time was passing, but there was no
chance to slip by the desk while
The Old Man was glancing about,
letting nothing escape him.

My break came with something I
hadn’t dared hope for. A freshman
approached the desk and tried to
talk The Old Man out of the key
to the locked stacks. He’d heard
about the erotica collected at some
of the northern schools, and had high
hopes.

The excoriation which ensued so
completely occupied The Old Man
that I was able to slip unnoticed into
the stacks. I made out a shadowy
figure behind the back issues of
The Yale Review.

“Did you get it?” I asked.

“Look here,” said Igor, and
pulled the McTotter book from be-
tween the leaves of the Times Lit-
erary Supplement. “They’ll never
miss that.”

I nodded at him as he folded the
paper carefully and shoved it under
the shelf. We went to the small glass
porthole in the door and could see
another man from the class trying to
find the book in the reserve stacks.
He looked a little sad as he searched
in vain; but he was a Commerce man
who'd strayed into this course by
some accident. Besides, he was pretty
smart and could possibly beat us

(Continued on page 4)

Che Ring-tum Phi

Tuesday Edition

The Ring-tum Phi is published Tues-
day and Friday during the college year.
It is printed We the Journalism Labor-
atory Press, ashington and Lee Uni-
versity. The mailing address is Box
899, Lexington, Va,

Entered as second class matter Sep-
tember 20, 1946 at the Post Office, Lex-
ington, Va., under the act of March
"National Advertising Representative:
The National Advertisers Service, Inc.,
420 Madison Ave., New York, N.Y.

 

 

 

BR isisitetiironuninac Rosewell Page, III
Business Managetr.............. Huntley Biggs
Editorial Board
Managing Editor................... Bill Roberts
Photography Editor..................Bill Young

Assistant Managing Editor...................
steve Galef

News Editor. Bob Bridewell

Sports Editor. . Steve Guild

 

 

Thomas Talks
Here Tonight

Norman Thomas’s long career in
American politics has been charac-
terized by an articulate and out-
spoken analysis of issues over 40
years. In his seven campaigns as
Socialist party candidate for presi-
dent of the United States he has
often squarely opposed the Demo-
cratic and Republican party stands
on current issues.

During the 1930’s, Mr. Thomas set
the keynote for his campaign when
he said that American voters in vot-
ing for either the Republican or
Democratic parties were only choos-
ing the lesser of two evils. He said
that the two major parties were “as
alike as Tweedledum and Tweedle-
dee” and that they were “like iden-
tical glass bottles with different
labels and both empty.”

He took the same stand on the
Kennedy-Nixon campaign this fall.

Mr. Thomas's high point as a pres-
idential candidate and the high point
of the Socialist party was reached in
the depression election of 1932, when
he polled 884,781 votes. Many of the
programs Mr. Thomas proposed to
relieve unemployment—such as pub-
lic works, unemployment insurance
as a part of a broad social security
scheme, and shortening of the work
week—were adopted as part of the
Roosevelt administration New Deal.

In 1944, Mr. Thomas acknowledged
that the Socialist party no longer
existed as an electoral force, but he
has always held that the influence
of the party was great enough to
justify its active participation in
presidential campaigns.

Mr. Thomas has been a prolific
writer of books and magazine arti-
cles. In the past five years he has
been particularly outspoken on for-
eign affairs, including articles in the
New York Times magazine, the Sat-
urday Review, and the Reporter. His
interest in foreign affairs have been
broad, ranging from studies of area
problems like those of the Middle
East to wider topics like disarma-
ment and conflict of “isms.”

Mr. Thomas distinguished him-
self throughout the late 1930’s and
the Second World War by his per-
sistent warning of the potential
danger of Russian communism un-
der Stalin.

As head of the Socialist party,
Mr. Thomas always insisted that so-
cial change should not be brought
about by force. He was never a
Marxist himself and his leadership
drove the communists out of the
Socialist party.

In 1934, Mr. Thomas created a
split among his followers on the
problem of “collective security.” He
thought that the United States should
join the World Court and the League
of Nations and should take the lead
in disarmament. But he cautioned
against getting into any wars “to
enforce peace” or supporting other
nations in military or economic war
against “agressor nations.”

During World War II, Mr. Thomas
attacked the Roosevelt administra-
tion as a virtual dictatorship and
claimed there had been a marked de-
cline in civil liberties. He condemned
allied demands for an unconditional
surrender and charged that the U.S.
was fighting to sustain the Russian
and British empires.

The 1944 Socialist party platform

(Continued on page 4)

 

Moos Wrote
For ‘Ike’

For the past two years Malcolm
C. Moos (pronounced Moose) served
as administrative assistant to the
President in charge of speech writ-
ing. In this capacity he was always
responsible for Eisenhower’s major
speeches, but he should have credit
for many of Eisenhower’s remarks.

Dr. Moos is a long time student
of politics, serving as a professor of
political science at Johns Hopkins
University. He was originally sum-
moned to the White House in 1957
to assist Dr. Arthur K. Larson in
the preparation of the President’s
speeches. Shortly after Larson’s res-
ignation Moos was appointed to take
over his place. He was not a new man
on the Eisenhower team, having
joined the Eisenhower bandwagon in
December 1951.

In order to be chosen as a speech
writer for the President, a man must
think and write in a manner that
resembles that of the President.
Moos was no exception to this rule.
He has often been classified as a
Modern Republican or Eisenhower
Republican. Earlier he was grouped
with the Willkie Republicans, and
then later with the Dewey Repub-
licans. These are pretty much the
same schools that have now been
succeeded by Eisenhower, Nixon, and
Lodge.

For the most part this group ad-
vocates an internationalism in world
politics. Willkie’s platform in 1940
stood for aid to peoples resisting
aggression; aid to allies of the United
States; the bolstering of national de-
fenses; and, a firm attempt at keep-
ing the nation out of war. After his
defeat Willkie worked at maintain-
ing a bipartisan foreign policy.

Four years later when Dewey ran
for President, he also upheld a
foreign policy based on large-scale
international cooperation. After
World War II the Republicans de-
veloped differences that slowly split
the party into two separate groups.
One group headed by the late Sen-
ator Taft of Ohio adopted a policy
that could generally be labled iso-
lationist. The other, behind Dewey,
was more often considered interna-
tionalist, and this is the group that
we know today as Modern Republi-
cans.

In 1952 when Eisenhower first ran
for President, he too found his home
among this group of internationalists.
Early in his campaign he was men-
tioning policies of “liberation, not
containment,” and “seizing the Cold
War offensive. This did, however,
develop into a program of contain-
ment and dollar diplomacy. In 1954
Eisenhower, a moderate, was faced
with the problem of appeasing right-
wing Republicans. After the death
of Senator Taft he found himself
confronted with a strong movement
on the part of rear guard Republi-
cans to limit his treaty making
power, by requiring Congressional
or Senatorial approval of Executive
agreements. This plan, commonly
known as the Bricker Amendment,
was sponsored by Senator Bricker
from Ohio. Eishenhower and the
more liberal Republicans voiced
strong disapproval for the measure
which was eventually defeated. Dur-
ing the 1958 Congressional elections
many of these right-wingers retired
or were defeated and Eisenhower
(Continued on page 4)

 

 

 

The Pros And

By JOHN PAUL

President Kennedy has appointed
Glenn T. Seaborg, 48, to be the new
chairman of the Atomic Energy Com-
mission. The new appointee has sev-
eral characteristics which distinguish
him markedly from his predecessors:
he is himself a physicist, a member
of the faculty of the University of
California at Berkeley, and a recipi-
ent of the Nobel Prize. Seaborg won
the Nobel Prize in 1951 with Edwin
MeMilan for his contribution to the
discovery of Plutonium.

Seaborg is assuming important new
duties at a highly critical time. For
two years the United States has been
suspending nuclear weapons tests.
This moratorium on tests has been
a subject of much dispute and the
issue today awaits President Ken-
nedy’s resolution. What action the
President takes either in affirming
our present ban or in changing
policy will, to a great extent, de-
pend upon the recommendations of
the Atomic Energy Commission.

In the month of December the is-
sue and its perplexities were brought

 

forth eloquently by two separate ad-
dresses. These two addresses sum-
marized the conflict in viewpoint
very well. A brief summary of the
ideas of these two speeches expressed
is given below. Read them, if you
will, with an eye towards ascertaining
which of these two dramatically op-
posing points of view is the most
valid.

In a speech at Yale University on
December 5, Hon. Thomas E. Murray,
a former member of the AEC, pre-
sented “The Case for Resuming Nu-
clear Tests.” On December 27, Sir
Charles Percy Snow presented an
opposing view in an address to the
American Association for the Ad-
vancement of Science meeting in New
York City. Sir Charles is a remark-
able British scientist who has served
with distinction for fifteen years in
his country’s civil service and who is
also the author of a series of novels
which have dealt mostly with a pres-
entation of the scientist and the
scientific life.

Sir Charles’ address stressed the
dangers of nuclear weapons and ap-
pealed to the scientist to accept the

 

ons Of

humanitarian aspects of science. He
pictured today’s physicist as a sol-
dier without a uniform unable to es-
eape from the moral escalator on
which he is riding. He admitted that
the initial step was proper in order
to avert the catastrophe of a Nazi
victory, but that subsequently scient-
ists have lost their moral respon-
sibility. “A soldier has to obey,” said
Snow, “for that is the foundation of
his morality. It is not the foundation
of the scientific morality. Scientists
have to question and if necessary to
rebel.”

Snow then proceeded to outline
with brutal certainty the ever in-
creasing dangers of nuclear annihi-
lation. Today four powers have
nuclear capabilities. “Within, at the
most six years, China and several
other states will have a stock of nu-
clear bombs. Within, at the most, ten
years, some of these bombs are going
3 Through accident, or folly,
or madness—but the motives don’t
matter...”

Thus the scientist, Sir Charles
maintained, has the duty to make
these facts clear to the world at large.

 

The A-

Today’s scientist must not succumb
to blind obedience to an overpower-
ing organization. He must face his
moral responsibility.

Mr. Murray’s address contered on
the practical importance of maintain-
ing at least nuclear parity with the
U.S.S.R., if not a distinct advantage.
He called for a lifting of the ban on
nuclear tests conducted either under-
ground or in outer space “not merely
to enlarge our scientific knowledge
of seismic or outerspace phenomena
but also and explicitly to develop
technology of nuclear weapons.” He
pointed out that our policy has not
achieved any of its objectives in that
it has failed to convince the Russians
that we are not implacable warmon-
gers and that we are willing to end
the arms race; it has not placated
world opinion and persuaded people
of our peaceful intentions; it has not
moderated neutralist sentiment; it
has not furthered the Geneva dis-
armament talks appreciably; and it
has not diminished the fear of war.

From the political standpoint the
weapons testing ban has been a
failure. From the military standpoint

 

est Controversy

the policy has been crippling. We
have lost ground to the Russians in
that they have no doubt continued
their nuclear advance stealthily.

Murray pointed out that the field
of nuclear technology is in its in-
fancy, that the H-Bomb is by no
means the ultimate weapon. In hint-
ing that new goodies are in the offing,
Murray spoke of “a third-genera-
tion” weapon, much more advanced
upon the present nuclear bombs.
“The new weapon will not be a large
and more efficient H-bomb, not a
smaller and more efficient A-bomb.
It will be a weapon of a different
category. All that may be said of it
here is that it is primarily anti-
personnel in destination and effect.”

Murray called for a resumption of
tests in order that we may maintain
parity with the Russians until a suc-
cessful disarmament has been
achieved. He has even suggested
steps which he feels will lead to dis-
armament without damage to na-
tional security. He concludes, “I
know my position has not been a
popular one, Somehow or other the

 

public is obessed by the much too
simple idea that a stoppage of all
tests will put an end to war....I
think this notion is profoundly
false.... My advocacy of resuming
tests is quite reasonable and it looks
both to the national interest and to
the cause of peace.”

Thus the two viewpoints are in
dramatie conflict. We can not ques-
tion the speaker’s honesty, sincerity,
nor the rationality of their approach-
es to the problem. It is in their ap-
parent reasonableness that the
strength of the two arguments is
found. Mr. Murray is reasonable in
presuming that one cannot trust
the Russians and in proceeding from
there to the conclusion that for the
free world’s safety we must maintain
nuclear superiority. Sir Charles’
reasonableness lies in a recognition
of the cold hard fact of the increas-
ing danger of nuclear devastation
and the urgent need to safeguard
humanity from annihilation. You
pays your money and you takes your
choice. What is your choice? What
will be the choice of the new admin-
istration?

 

 

 

ea a
 

THE RING-TUM PHI

Page 3

 

Cagers Bow To H-S; Runners 7th; Grapplers Win

Generals Defeat Duke, 24-6

Poor Defense Hurts Generals

By HARRY MEEM

The combination of poor defense
and an off night from the floor cost
the W&L cagers their 15th consecu-
tive loss on the road Saturday, when
they bowed to Hampden-Sydney
72-61 on the Tigers’ boards. The
Generals, who beat the Tigers 79-67
in Doremus Gym earlier this season,
permitted them to hit on 50 per cent
of their shots from the floor, while
cutting the cords at rate of only
30 per cent.

Although the Generals opened
up an early lead, Hampden-Syd-
ney came back to lead 37-32 at the
half and at one time in the sec-
ond half by 19 points before the
Generals cut the final margin to
11 points.

Rodger Fauber and Dave Beale
tied for high scoring honors for the
Generals, with 11 points apiece.

 

Fauber also pulled down 18 rebounds.
Brett Thackston was the only other
General to hit in double figures,
with 10 points. Four Hampden-
Sydney players reach double figures,
topped by Davis’ 25 points.

The Generals sank 23 of 27 free
throws, showing steady improve-
ment on their early season per-
formances. Although pleased with
this Coach Bob McHenry said:

“We pride ourselves on our defense,
but when they hit 50 per cent of
their shots from the floor, it shows
we're missing something. We'll
have to work more on defense to
be ready for Randolph-Macon
here Wednesday night.”

The Yellow Jackets, who defeated
the Generals in Ashland earlier this
season, bring. with them a 12-3
overall record, making them the
leading team in the Little Eight.

 

VMI Relays Are First Test

By HARRY MEEM

Washington and Lee’s_ winter
track team, after a poor showing
in the VMI relays held last Saturday
night, will redouble its efforts in the
next few weeks in an attempt to
improve its record during the balance
of the season.

The Generals were able to mus-
ter only two fourth place finishes
in a meet which was dominated by
VMI and Furman, but Coach Norm
Lord feels that the team has a
good chance to improve.

The W&L entry in the 880 yd. relay
finished fourth, behind VMI, The
Citadel, and Duke. VMI’s winning
time was 1:35.8, while the Generals,
composed of Fox Urquhart, John
Pearson, Skip Essex, and captain Jim
Hickey ran the course in 1:41.5, beat-
ing Wake Forest and Richmond. The
other fourth place was in the high

 

Freshman Quinert Beats Augusta, 65-48

Freshman Dave Britt (16) goes up for two in yesterday’s game against AMA.

 

 

 

Notice

There will be a meeting of all var-
sity baseball candidates in Doremus
Gymnasium at 7:30 Thursday night.
Freshmen are urged to attend the
meeting.

 

Bc Be Be Be Mc Be Be Bo Be Be Bo Bo Be Be Be BeBe Be Be Be Bee
SS eS EE ee

 

THE NEW

White Top

Restaurant
*

re
RE eS Se SS ee
ie i le Se a ee ee Be Be Be BB Be BE te

PPPS See Se STS SSeS SS See eee eee errr eT

A personal invitation
to the
Students

Try our delicious foods
Route 60 East

Se ee ie Be ie Be Be ie Me Be ee
HPSS SES SSS TST See eee eee

 

 

222.22 2 2 2 2 2s 2 2

ec Be Me Be Be Be Be Me Be Be Be Bs he Be Be Be de Be Be Bo de Ae
ee eee Ss See Ee Ee

He Te deere ofo fe oe fe oho rde obo ede ote oge oto ofe ole ote ee afeotoeds

White’s Music
Store

(Opposite State Theater)
+
Phonographs—Hi-Fi

 

 

Expert Repair Service
ey
5 W. Nelson St. Lexington, Va.

HO 3-3522

PERE eb heh hhh he

 

 

 

By RANDY COLE

The freshman basketball team, af-
ter a rather stagnant layoff during
“help” week, trampled Augusta Mil-
itary Academy here, Monday by a
score of 65 to 48.

But all was not well for the Baby
Generals who were noticeably off in
their shooting, ball-handling, and
general overall play. AMA was paced
by Wayne Blaylock and Paul Causby
who combined to pour in 31 of the
losers’ total. Blaylock was high scor-
er for the day with 16. Fred Ridolphi
led the Generals’ scoring with 14
points, with Howard Martin and Stu
Yoffe scoring 10 and 9 respectively.
Going into Monday’s game, Martin
had held an average of almost 21
points per game, while Ridolphi was
averaging a little over 13.

Defensively, the Generals employ-
ed a man-to-man setup, stopping up

jump by freshman Robin Kell, who
cleared the bar at 5’ 6”.

Hickey and Urquhart turned in
times of :6.7 and :6.8 respectively
in the dash trials. John Pearson
had the bad luck to be placed in
the fastest heat of the 70 yard high
hurdles. His time in running third
in this heat would have been good
enough to win the other two heats,
both of which were considerably
slower. Dave Monroe cleared 44
feet in the shot put, which was
won by Duke’s Gesswein with a
throw of slightly over 52 feet.

(Continued on page 4)

 

By DAVE MONTGOMERY

The Washington and Lee Wrestling
team, riding the crest of a five match
winning streak, entertains the North
Carolina State Wolfpack this Satur-
day at 7:30 p.m. in Doremus Gymna-
sium. Last night, the General grap-
plers battered the Duke Blue Devils,
24-6, before a partisan home crowd.

W&L got off to a quick ten-point
lead by taking pins in the first two
weight classes. Hoke Robinson pin-
ned his opponent in 5:17, while
Dave Montgomery achieved a fall
in 3:23. Ken Greer, Ed Jansen, and
Sandy Mercereau all gained deci-

 

sions to boost the General lead
to 19-0, and freshman Herb Smith
pinned his man in 2:59 to end the
W&L scoring at 24 points.

The Blue Devils averted a shut out
by capturing decisions in the 177
and heavy weight classes. In one of
the most exciting matches of the
evening, Mark Leggett, of ACC foot-
ball fame, edged Jud Babcock 5-3 in
the 177 weight division.

Coach Dick Miller was very pleased
with the team’s overall perform-
ance and felt that “West Virginia
is the only really tough match left
for us.”

 

APE
$s Es.

 

Swimmers Herb Jackne, Eliot Savard, Maury Purnell, and Jim Soden geastios their dives ron future meets,

 

Overheard comment during the
W&L freshman-A.M.A. game yes-
terday: “Put down a note to remind
me that we’re not coming back if
they’re going to use their business

 

the middle of the key to prevent'|
Blaylock from shooting, while AMA |
used a zone defense. On offense the!

manager as one of the officials.”
This from the A.M.A. coach....

 

home team took many shots from

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

The only thing holding up the final

 

Shorts On I-M Tie, Murray and Leslie, Faculty Handball

NFU beat Sigma Nu, all three wind-
ing up with identical 3-1 records.
In the play off last week, the same

(Continued on page 4)
99496000900 0000 00000009

IDEAL

 

%

 

 

Green Valley Motel

One Mile North on
U. S. Highway No. 11

 

 

 

 

 

*
+ +
. % LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA
the outside, working them with a, = a “aoe ea z BARBER SHOP t HO 3-2195
man-in-motion, trying to open UP/ joague, In the regular season, Kappa | % :
the mil for Mart. Angi con-| Samat the non-eeriy team UCN SERVICE
vero gb in which it attempted Sigma Nu beat Kappa Sig, and the | soopeeopapeteoegeteotopeteseetetecteoteteobettetooh
t set up shots for Blaylock on the| SogeSseSSsaessssesssessssesssessscssssesssessscesssessssesssesssssssesss
and combined this with repeated fast | ¢® Ss
breaks. .; eo
Aside from the poor showing in the es pay
(Continued on page 4) ae ee
* ee ee
=. ee
+e
ee ee
VARSITY —||33 e pyoume hn #
ee ee@e
BILLIARD 33 $3
ee
ee oe
ACADEMY 38 Cordially Invites You To Make This °°
e . ee ee
Radio Hospital a ee Your Headquarters for es
atering °° ee
* cs ee
 Seaten $5 Good Food 33
Radio, TV, Phonograph ee es
ae
Sales and Service Corner of ee ee
ee ke ee
* Washington and Jefferson $e aa
+ $$
HO 3-3531 ee ee
ee Here you get the food for the most Reasonable Prices es
LEE E LEE EEL ELE EEE EEE EEE EE GEE EEE EE EEE EE EEE °8 o°
We F £138 3
e eature ei ee * e
#\ee ee
#\ee
ee ee
SEALTEST a 3
lee ee
Dairy Products 2133 ee
~)ee . . ee
-) ee ®
“To get the best get Sealtest” 2/33 Our Sp ecialties: es
#\ee
over twenty different products in addition to £133 se
delicious Sealtest ice cream e\e8 ee
z ee STEAK ee
Block and Crushed Ice #\s$ ee
Your favorite mixes—Ice Cold £183 33
#\ee
aise CHICKEN oe
~ ~ | ee 2 :
Maple-Rock Distributors, Inc. $):: $3
Phone HO 3-2168 $s COUNTRY HAM es
se
$404060006000000000000000000000000000000000000008 ee ee
33 3
33 AND THE BEST SANDWICHES IN TOWN o°
Open a convenient student Checking account ee oc
ee ee
TODAY ee +
$3 *% os
at es oe
ee
: : $3 iH
Rockbridge National Bank = |/3: Meet Your Friends Here +
ee ee
Member Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation $9 es
ee
ee ee
ee
Sossesesseseee eee seses sees esse sseSeseeossseoeeeoeeescceosoceeeoooSeeoe tees
Page 4

ti

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

Moos Friendly With Nixon
(Continued from page 2)

was able to move forward in pur-
suit of a policy of internationalism.

Moos, who will speak here tomor-
row night, can be expected to de-
fend these liberal or Modern Re-
publican views. The general concern
of his discussion will be the Presi-
dency and foreign policy, as this is
related to the present East-West
conflict. He has always been a sup-
porter of the type of legislation in
reciprocal trade as first exempli-
fied by Cordell Hull in 1934. Moos
feels that this type of legislation
will lead to strong international co-
operation.

Moos was a close friend of former
vice-president Richard M. Nixon
and some feel that if Nixon had
been elected President, Moos would
have been maintained in his posi-
tion and possibly would have had a
great deal of influence on Nixon.

Moos’ major interest in political
science has been with the power of
the President and with the shifting
tides of political sentiment. He has
written and collaborated in many
books that are concerned with these
problems. In 1952 he wrote Politics,
Presidents, and Coattails in which he
tried to show that the President was
not as important a force in helping
to bring other candidates from his
party into office during a Presiden-
tial election year as once popularly
believed. His most recent book,
Hats in the Ring, written with Steph-
en Hess, attempts to reveal the in-
tricacies of Presidential politics.

Presently he is working on the
problem of the loss of power on the
part of the President that occurs
between Election Day and Inaugura-
tion Day when a new President is
elected.

 

Thomas’ Views Vindicated
(Continued from page 2)

denounced the imperialist tendencies
of the “Big Three” alliance. The So-
cialists called for a new world order
based on a more equitable distribu-
tion of wealth and said no peace
would be lasting which did not recog-
nize this principle. The Socialist stand
is being vindicated today as experts
on the political problems of under-
developed nations emphasize that
the real battle in the world is not
between democracy and communism,
but between the “have” and the
“have-nots,”

 

Photos Shown Feb. 15-27
(Continued from page 1)

Mayor, curator of prints, the Metro-
politan Museum of Art; Beaumont
Newhall, director of George Eastman
House; Edward Steichen, director of
the Dept. of Photography at the Mus-
seum of Modern Art; Aline B. Saar-
inen, associate art critic of The New
York Times; and Stanley Marcus,
president of Neiman-Marcus.

 

 

STATE

LEXINGTON, VA
L_MOSART 3-2424 |

 

 

HELD OVER
Wed. through Sat.

   
     
   
   
   
     
    

 

“WHY CAN'T
| STOP?”

M-G-M presents

ELIZABETH TAYLOR
LAURENCE HARVEY /
EDDIE FISHER

in JOHN O'HARA'S

“BUTTERFIELD
cinemascore + METROCOLOR

 
 

 

 

 

 

Sports Shorts
(Continued from page 3)

thing happened. So now the powers
that be in the Intramural department
have ordained a double elimination
playoff, to be completed this week.
Sigma Nu and NFU begin it tonight
at 7:00. Here we go around again... .

Coach Joe Lyles seems optimistic

 

TTT
\ Li

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

aT
TMA PCE about the chances for a winning sea-
I son in baseball this year. He has

 

THE
HAS

\S
©

—
—

Ogg a ad

—

 

ten lettermen coming back, and lost
only one man through graduation.
What’s better yet, only one of his
returnees will graduate this year. So
if not this year, maybe next. This
year’s schedule has some pretty big
names on it....

The football coaches are threaten-
ing to use Coach Buck Leslie at
quarterback and University Proctor
Murray at fullback, in the annual
Blue-White game ending spring
practice. ..

“MAD PUNTER”
STRUCK AGAIN!

 

Huntley Gets Fellowship
(Continued from page 1)

as a lieutenant (j.g.) in the U.S. Navy

from 1950 to 1953. While a law stu-

dent at Washington and Lee, he

edited the Law Review, and has con-

tributed articles as a faculty mem-
ber.

He is a native of Winston-Salem,
a

Trackmen Enter
State Meet Next

(Continued from page 3)

 

The abbreviated relays, which saw
representatives of nine schools par-
ticipating, acted as good training for
the Generals for the coming State
Meet, to be held on February 18th
at VMI. Unofficially, the Generals
finished seventh in team score.

After the meet, Coach Lord had
this to say: “We were very satis-
fied with the results of our 800 realy
team, and the boys seem to be very
enthusiastic with their performances
at this early stage of the season.”

He went on to add that he would
like to see more members of the
spring track team come out now in
order to begin getting in shape for
the coming season.

 

State Bureacracy
Abets Commune

(Continued from page 2)

istic of a living thing: the will to
live. From this will follow the in-
stinct to reproduce (one agency
spawns another) and to eat (the hap-
less citizenry are the necessary food).

When a state begins to take on
these characteristics, you have, for all
practical purposes, a commune.

So when the President of the
United States calls on the citizenry
to make sacrifices, to support his
plans for increased bureaucracy, to
put more power into his hands be-
cause he is glad to accept it, people
will do well to consider carefully
whither this is leading. The greater
sacrifice would be to refuse to place
those onerous responsibilities in
President Kennedy’s hands and take
them ourselves.

To put your trust in the State is
to surrender to it, to subordinate
yourself to it. Many nations have
tried: Germany, Italy and Russia to
name a few. To be sure, the trains
ran on time; so did the people.

 

 

For those extra pieces

of
FURNITURE

for your room
see our stock
before buying

Ss
VARNER AND POLE

 

 

 

 

 

 

STUDENTS ACCOUNTS INVITED
Member F. D.1. C.

 

Freshman Are Initiated
(Continued from page 1)

The Rifle team’s victory over Wake
Forest is all very good, but they still
maintain their need for a practice
range of their own somewhere on

Frosh Cagers Use Bench

To Defeat Augusta Five
(Continued from page 3)

final statistics, the squad looked be-
low par in its ball-handling, shooting,
and particularly in passing. Time and
again the Generals would launch a
fast break down court only to see
it fail because of a poor pass or
missed layup. Probably the most dis-
heartening blow was Martin’s poor
showing, who a few weeks ago at
Augusta tossed in 24 points as the
Generals whipped AMA 81 to 55.

Starters for the team were Martin
at center, Ridolphi and Gordon Tay-
lor at the guards, and Yoffe and
Dave Britt at the forward positions.
The entire squad saw action in both
halves, with Coach Joe Lyles clear-
ing his bench in the fourth quarter.

The Old Man Is Distracted

As Igor Emerges Successful
(Continued from page 2)

on the quiz if he got the book. Maybe

not. Anyway, it was too big a risk to

take. With competition the way it

is, you can’t take chances.

Igor had the book under his over-
coat. I walked in front of him to
draw attention; but it was not neces-
sary. The Old Man was counting
a big pile of pennies and nickels.
We opened the big door and were
safe.

I thought of Jack, probably search-
ing still in the reserve rack. Too bad
it has to be like this; but there’s
no other way. He had no business
taking this course anyway. Besides,
we majors have to look out for our-
selves.

 

 

Norton, Fred Ridolphi, Henry Sack-
ett, Will Williams, and Jack Yar-
brough.
Sigma Chi

Bob Aylin, Craig Blackstock,
Johnny Edwards, Jim French, Mark
Gee, Dick Holladay, Butch Kross,
Bob Moye, Sandy Ross, and Rex
Wooldridge.

Sigma Nu
Tom Green, Bill Humphreys, Har-
ry Landsiedel, Hollins Moore, Jim
Peters, Bob Powell, Nick Simmons,
Dave Streetman, Penn Way, Frank
Wright, and Norm Youngblood.

Sigma Phi Epsilon

Bob Avent, Chris Conyers, Jere
Cravens, Bob Page, Mike Shank, and
Culver Smith.

 

campus. Their 1340 score has
been good, but still there are schools
like Fishburne outshooting them.
What ever happened to the prospec-
tive plans for a practice range? ...

Coach Bob McHenry, the man who
“outenthuisasms Mickey Rooney”
(and that is a quote), seems to be
dragging a bit these days. Either that,
or he’s plotting new ways to snap
the basketball team’s losing streak
away from home....

 

MYERS
HARDWARE
COMPANY

 

rrr rrr

a a i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i i ti i i i

FOR YOUR VALENTINE NEEDS

The Most Unusual
Insulting . . . Eye-Catching . . . Devastating
Fabulous ... or Just Plain Loveable

CARDS

The Book Shop

W. Washington Street

i i la i

 

 

 

But all is not dismal for the Gen-
erals. Coach Lyles attributes much of
the team’s troubles to the recent BROWN’S
vacation-in-school and is certain
that the team will improve in the CLEANING
next few weeks.
WORKS
LEXINGTON We call for
CLEANERS and deliver
Phone HO 3-3813 108 S. Jeff HO 3-2013 14 Randolph St.

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

The First National Bank

of Lexington
*
has special checking accounts

for students

 

 

 

Finest

SUNDAY

Choice Meats
Ww

Route 60 Buena Vista

Ted’s Steak House

Foods

DINNERS

Oe eno ae ae oo obo oe aha ao oe ohooh of oe aah ooo oe of ofeag

=

ll le le ee

bh beh

 

proeeeeneseerenereneeneryyeereeer TTT TTerNI nana
Shirt Service as You Like it

Quality Cleaning and Pressing

UNIVERSITY CLEANERS
HO 3-3622

*
“Your Campus Neighbors”

Mb bb hehehehe fe dobeederds

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ROCKBRIDGE LAUNDRY

and
Dry Cleaners

Shirts Transparently Wrapped
for Freshness
*
AGENTS:
Fraternities, Dorms and Co-op

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

On Campus «2 Mac Shanan

(Author of iE Wasa +t ite Gall w hota Dwarf” ,“The Many
is

   

**A GUIDE FOR THE DATELESS’’

With the cost of dating rising higher and higher it is no wonder
that so many of us men are turning to discus throwing. Natur-
ally, we would prefer nuzzling warm coeds to flinging cold
disci, but who’s got that kind of money? Prices being what they
are, the average man today has a simple choice: dating or eating.

Unless the average man happens to be Finster Sigafoos.

Finster came to college with the normal ambition of any
average man: he wanted to find the prettiest coed on campus
and make her his. He looked long and carefully, and at last he
found her—a tall job named Kretchma Inskip, with hair like
beaten gold.

He asked her for a date. She accepted. He appeared at her
sorority house that night, smiling, eager, and carrying a bouquet
of modestly priced flowers.

“Now then,” said Kretchma, tossing the sleazy flora to a
pledge, “where are we going tonight?”

Finster was a man short on cash, but long on ideas. He had
prepared an attractive plan for this evening. ‘How would you
like to go out to the Ag campus and see the milking machine?”
he asked.

“Tek,” she replied.

“Well, what would you like to do?” he asked.

“Come,” said she, “to a funny little place I know just outside
of town.”

And away they went.

 

We deri Wa? Dey lad Wnt Opie

The place was Millionaires Roost, a simple country inn made
of solid ivory. It was filled with beautiful ladies in backless
gowns, handsome men in dickeys. Original Rembrandts adorned
the walls. Marlboro trays adorned the cigarette girls. Chained
to each table was a gypsy violinist.

Finster and Kretchma were seated. “I,” said Kretchma to
the waiter, ‘will start with shrimps remoulade. Then I will have
lobster and capon in maderia sauce with asparagus spears. For
dessert I will have melon stuffed with money.”

“And you, Sir?” said the waiter to Finster.

“Just bring me a pack of Marlboros,” replied Finster, “for
if ever a man needed to settle back and enjoy the mild benefi-
cence of choice tobacco and easy-drawing filtration, it is the
shattered hulk you see before you now.”

So, smoking the best of all possible cigarettes, l'inster watched
Kretchma ingest her meal and calculated that every time her
fetching young Adam’s apple rose and fell, he was out another
97¢. Then he took her home.

It was while saying goodnight that Finster got his brilliant
idea. “Listen!” he cried excitedly. “I just had a wonderful
notion. Next time we go out, let’s go Dutch treat!’’

By way of reply, Kretchma slashed him across the face with
her housemother and stormed into the house.

“Well, the heck with her,” said Finster to himself. “She is
just a gold digger and I am well rid of her. I am sure there are
many girls just as beautiful as Kretchma who will understand
the justice of my position. For after all, girls get as much
money from home as men, so what could be more fair than
sharing expenses on a date?”

With good heart and high hopes, Finster began a search for
a girl who would appreciate the equity of Dutch treat, and you
will be pleased to hear that he soon found one—Mary Alice
Hematoma, a lovely three-legged girl with sideburns.

© 1961 Max Shulman

* * .
We’re no experts on Dutch treat, but here’s an American treat
we recommend with enthusiasm—Marlboro’s popular new
partner for non-filter smokers—the Philip Morris Commander.

 

 

  
 

 
 

FRIDAY
Edition

Che KRing-tum Phi

Washington and Lee Semi-Weekly Newspaper

FRIDAY
Edition

 

Volume LXI

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA, FEBRUARY 10, 1961

Number 34

 

. BOARD APPROVES NEW BUILDING PLAN

African Positions
Offered To Seniors

The Teachers College of Columbia
University, in response to a recom-
mendation by the African Liaison
Committee of the American Council
on Education, is now screening pros-
pective 1961 graduates who would be
interested in teaching in East Africa
secondary schools.

A conference was held at Prince-
ton to consider the educational prob-
lems of East Africa-Kenya, Tang-
anyika, Uganda, and Zanzibar. The
conference was sponsored by the
African Liaison Committee of the
American Council of Education. The
participants included representatives
of the governments, education and
voluntary bodies of the territories
concerned, the United Kingdom and
the United States.

In co-operation with Great Britain,
the U.S. is sending 150 young Ameri-
cans to East Africa this year to ease
a drastic shortage in the new na-
tions.

Prospective graduates of Wash-

English Grant
Offered Students

A $750 scholarship for study in
England or Scotland during the sum-
mer of 1961 has been announced by
the Virginia Branch of the English-
Speaking-Union.

James D. Farrar, assistant dean of
students, said today that the schol-
arship will provide an opportunity
for a Virginia college student to take
course in an English or Scottish Uni-
versity and also to travel in Great
Britain in order that they may gain
a better understanding of the Eng-
lish people.

Qualifications for the scholarship
are as follows: a resident of Virginia
in the current sophomore or junior
class of a Virginia college or univer-
sity who has not heretofore visited
the United Kingdom. Applicants must
be between 18 and 22 years old and
must be recommended by his college
or university.

Students interested in applying
for the English-Speaking-Union
award should see Dean Farrar in
Washington Hall 25.

 

 

Plecement Interviews
Announcd By Farrar

Mr. James D. Farrar, placement
director, announced today that the
following interviews had been ar-
ranged for the dates listed:

Monday, Feb. 13

Mr. D. A. Mershon of the Lehigh
Portland Cement Company of Allen-
town, Pa., will visit the campus to
interview seniors interested in op-
portunities for a Sales and Sales
Administrative career with his
company. Men will be accepted
for the training program regardless
of their military status.

Tuesday, Feb. 14

Mr. H. H. Harrison of The State-
Planters Bank of Richmond, Va., will
interview seniors interested in a
career in banking. He will discuss the
numerous opportunities in invest-
ments, branch banking, trusts, opera-
tions, credit, correspondent bank
work, etc.

Thursday, Feb. 16

Mr. R. F. Dolan of the Metropoli-
tan Life Insurance Company will
visit the campus to talk with seniors
interested in his company along the
lines of Home Office administration,
Actuarial ,and Sales positions.

Friday, Feb. 17

A representative of Aetna Casualty
and Surety Company will be on cam-
pus to interview seniors interested
in the opportunities of employment
with his company—along the lines
of salaried Field Representative po-
sitions which lead to positions at
the Sales Management level.

Seniors interested in the above
should make appointments to meet
representatives of these firms at the
Placement Office, 25 Washington Hall.

 

ington and Lee will qualify for
participation as Group B members:
about 50 liberal arts graduates of
the class of ’61 who have a bach-
elor’s degree but no professional
preparation for teaching will re-
ceive a full academic year—nine
months—of orientation training and
teaching practice at Makerere Col-
lege, Uganda, beginning in early
July 1961. Their course will lead
to a diploma in education.

These graduates would then go
into English speaking schools in East
Africa for a period of teaching, with
expenses and a salary of $2,800 or
$3,000 a year.

Director of International Studies at
Columbia has asked for immediate
recommendations. One or two stu-
dents from W&L may be selected.
Any student interested in the pro-
gram or further information should
contact Assistant Dean James Farrar
in Washington Hall 25 immediately.

Dr. Fishwick
Publishes Article
For Journal

The first in a series of articles on
Denmark by Dr. Marshall W. Fish-
wick, professor of American studies
at Washington and Lee University,
has been published in the Fall issue
of the Texas Quarterly of the Uni-
versity of Texas.

The article, entitled “Denmark’s
Double Image,” is the result of Dr.
Fishwick’s Fulbright lectureship in
Denmark during the 1958-59 aca-
demic year.

The other two articles in the series
will be on Soren Kierkegaard and
Hans Christian Andersen. They are
scheduled for publication this spring.

Dr. Fishwick writes in his current
article: “Underneath the surface
gaity is a monumental boredom
which has helped give the Danes one
of the highest suicide rates in the
world. Underneath the lighthearted
manner is one of the shrewdest and
most calculated economies in the
world. What one feels when one
comes to have friends in a Danish
town is not noisy abandon but quiet
desperation. Their culture is ground
in realism, not fantasy.”

The author of several books and
numerous articles for national liter-
ary publications, Dr. Fishwick has
been a member of the Washington
and Lee faculty since 1949. He re-
ceived his A.B. at the University of
Virginia, his M.A. at the University
of Wisconsin and his Ph.D. from
Yale University.

In 1953 and 1955 he went to Eu-
rope as program director for the
Council on Student Travel. As the
result of a lecture series given at
Oxford University, he was made a
member of the British American
Studies Association in 1959.

 

Brockman Receives Grant
For Graduate Research

An instructor in romance languages
at Washington and Lee University is
one of 65 college professors in the
nation granted a Danforth Teacher
Study Grant for the 1961-62 academ-
ic year.

Charles B. Brockmann, 37, has re-
ceived the grant for additional
graduate study at the University of
California in Berkley, according to
an announcement by Dean of the
College William W. Pusey III. He
will study two semesters and two
summers beginning in June.

His current field of research is the
work of the late Albert Camus, a
contemporary French writer.

A member of the Washington and
Lee faculty since 1959, Brockmann
received his A.B. and M.A. degrees
from the University of North Car-
olina in 1949 and 1955 respectively.
Before coming to Washington and
Lee, he was on the faculties of King
College and Lincoln Memorial Uni-
versity.

 

 

Norman Thomas, First of the speakers of International International Re-

lations Week spoke to a capacity crowd in Lee Chapel.

Moos Unable To Appear

‘Russia Wants Peace’
Says Last IRC Speaker

Dr Abraham Kreusler, chairman of
the department of Russian students
at R-MWC, told a W&L audience in
Lee Chapel last night that the East-
West conflict is not an idealogical
one.

Dr. Kreusler said communism
meant nothing to the average Rus-
sian, but the people were beginning
to take pride in their country’s ac-
complishments. Their desire is to
surpass America in military power,
agricultural production, and eco-
nomic strength.

Not War, but Peace

The native of Russia also told the
audience that Russia does not want
war, but peace. Peace is essential, he
said, for Russia to divert more of
her resources to consumer goods—
and there is growing pressure on the
government for these goods.

Dr. Kreusler was the final speak-
er in the three-day International Re-
lations Week that was marred by the
heavy snow fall. Mr. Malcolm Moos
was unable to come to Lexington
for a scheduled speech Wednesday,
but IRC officials said he would ap-
pear at a later date.

America’s leading socialist, Nor-
man Thomas, opened the week Tues-
day evening in Lee Chapel with a
four-point proposal for U.S. foreign
policy.

“A foreign policy,” he said, “that
would make sense must begin by
accepting the fact that war is really
unthinkable and therefore that we
have to find alternatives.”

 

Dr. Whitaker Given Funds

To Continue Research

Dr. Robert D. Whitaker, assistant
professor of chemistry at Washing-
ington and Lee University, has re-
ceived a $4,518 grant from the Re-
search Corporation of New York for
a two-month summer research pro-
ject, Dean William W. Pusey, III,
announced today.

Dr. Whitaker will continue a study
of compounds between iodine-chlor-
ides and amines that was begun last
year under the auspices of Wash-
ington and Lee’s own John M. Glenn
Fund for faculty research.

The Research Corporation said its
award is a “contribution to the aca-
demic and scientific program” at
Washington and Lee.

Assisting Dr. Whitaker will be
John R. Ambrose, of Roselle Park,
N. J., currently a senior chemistry
major at the university.

Approximately half of the stipend
will be used to purchase equipment
necessary for the study, Dr. Whitaker
said. Work on the project will be-
gin July 1.

Dr. Whitaker is a 1954 honor grad-
uate of Washington and Lee, and re-
ceived his graduate degrees at the
University of Florida. He joined the
Washington and Lee faculty in 1959.

 

Mr. Thomas proposed that 1) uni-
versal disarmament, 2) a strengthen-
ed United Nations, 3) a progressive
disengagement from military com-
mitments and 4) a deeper commit-
ment to the struggle against poverty
would set the world on the road to
peace.

The theme of the conference was
“Some Aspects of the East-West con-
flict.” The sessions are designed to
draw attention to the problems of
international relations.

Dr. Kreusler closed his speech,
and the conference, on an optimistic
note. He urged the students in the
audience to rally to the challenge
which Russia has offered, and he
reminded the audience that “this is
a wonderful world.”

 

Constuction To Begin Soon;

Present Facilities To Be Altered

Washington and Lee University’s
Board of Trustees has authorized
the university to proceed with plans
to construct a new science building
intended for use in September, 1962.

The new structure will house the
departments of physics and biology,

PEP Takes
First Place
In Standings

Phi Epsilon Pi has captured first
place in the academic standing of
W&L fraternities. The Phi Eps aver-
age is 1.684, and close behind them
were the ZBT’s with 1.643.

The nonfraternity men’s average
hit 1.399, and placed just behind
Lambda Chi Alpha in fourth place
with 1.494,

The All-Men’s average was 1.316
Compared with last year’s first se-
mester standings, the all-men’s aver-
age is down from 1.355.

For the first semester of 1959-60,
ZBT led with a 1.588 and SAE was
second with 1.514.

Fraternity Grade-Point Ratio

 

Standings for First Semester
FE TTI Biivcessesesccscrsescsexs 1.684
2. Zeta Beta Tau .............00000 1.643
2s, ee 1.519
4. Lambda Chi Alpha ............ 1.494

NomPPraternlty .........c.c.scccesss
5. Phi Gamma Delta..................

SE TN  hiccncotsctaiciacics
7. Sigma Alpha Epsilon
a I iis

8. Delta Tau Delta.
9. Sigma Phi Epsilon
10. Kappa Alpha

 

11. Pi Kappa Alpha..........

12. Phi Kappa Psi ..................
ROE ee

14. Phi Delta Theta..................

15. Delta Upsilon. ........................ 1.177
16. Kappa Sigma ......................... 1.148
17, Phi Kappa Sigma ................ 1,131
18, Beta Theta Pi. ..................... 1,105

 

British Brigadier Stephen Longrigg
To Speak In duPont Hall Monday

A veteran of 40 years experience
in Near East affairs will speak here
Monday on “Colonialism—Facts and
Fancies.”

Brigadier Stephen Longrigg, who
has been a British army officer, civil
administrator and petroleum com-
pany official, will speak in duPont
Hall at 10:15 a.m. under the auspices
of the Lexington Branch of the
English Speaking Union.

Frances L. McPheeters, speaking
for the English Speaking Union said,
“Brigadier Longrigg is well known
to American audiences as being a
brilliant and articulate speaker. He
knows the situation in the Middle
East from first-hand experience....
He has the facility of making the
complex situation in the Middle East
and Africa understandable and fas-
cinating.”

Veteran of World Wars I and II

A veteran of World Wars I and II,
Brigadier Longrigg began his career
in the Near East as an infantry of-
ficer in Mesopotamia. Later he was
a civil administrator in Iraq. In the
late 1920’s he published his first his-

 

torical work “Four Centuries of
Modern Iraq.”

In 1931, he joined the Iraq Petro-
leum Company and served with
them until 1951, except for the period
of the second World War. During
the early '40’s, Brigadier Longrigg
was governor of various Italian col-
onies in Africa.

Following his retirement, Brigadier
Longrigg has spent much of his time
writing and lecturing. In 1955 Oxford
University conferred a D. Litt. degree
on him. He speaks Arabic, Turkish,
French and Italian.

In U.S. for Third Time

A well-known and popular lectur-
er, Dr. Longrigg has toured the
United States and Canada twice be-
fore under the auspices of British
Information Services. His present
tour, under sponsorship of the Eng-
lish Speaking Union, will take him
to the Southern parts of the United
States.

Monday night, Brigadier Longrigg
will speak at VMI on “Islam and Oil:
Political and Economic Factors in
Today’s World.”

 

W&L Grants 21 Degrees

Washington and Lee University
has granted degrees to 21 men who
fulfilled requirements at the end of
the first semester.

Four bachelor of arts, four bachelor
of science in commerce and 13 bach-
elor of law degrees were awarded
following approval of the candidates’
records by the faculty and the uni-
versity’s board of trustees.

Bachelor of arts degrees were
awarded to T. H. Alexander, New
York City; L. D. Chapman, Pelham,
N. Y.; C. B. Davis, Hampton; and
R. G. Rappel, Worchester, Mass.

Wickliffe Hollingshead, Riverton,
N. J.; W. L. Snowdon, Jr., Wilming-

 

ton, Del.; R. J. Walters, Jr., Mill-
burn, N. J.; and H. W. Zimmerman,
Cincinnati, Ohio; received bachelor
of science degrees in commerce.

LL.B. degrees went to H. C. An-
derson, Lebanon, N. J., H. M. Bates,
Wise; R. J. Berghel, Omaha, Neb.;
T. B. Bryant, III, Orangeburg, S. C.;
W. F. Ford, Toronto, Ontario, Cana-
da; W. C. Foulke, Jr., Yardley, Pa.;
R. L. Gilliam, III, Union City, Tenn.;
and N. A. Lapsley, Lexington.

Also, R. H. Parsons, Pekin, II;
N. H. Rodriguiz, Magnola, Del.;
G. E. Smallwood, Lexington; B. M.
Storick, Brooklyn, N. Y.; and H. V.
White, Jr., Holland, Va.

 

and will relieve generally crowded
conditions in Howe Hall, the present
science building accommodating
chemistry, geology and biology de-
partments .

Howe Hall will undergo remodel-
ing and will receive a new wing of
classrooms, laboratories and an ob-
servatory as a part of the current
building project.

President Fred C. Cole said the
university architects will submit
plans to contractors for bids later
this month, and work is expected
to get underway in early spring.

Culmination of Program

The project marks the culmination
of a two-year University Develop-
ment Program which began in Jan-
uary, 1959, to raise $2,000,00 for im-
proving Washington and Lee’s facil-
ities for science, journalism and pre-
engineering.

A total of 4,038 donors have sub-
scribed more than $2,000,000 orig-
inally sought, President Cole said,
but he added that the fund campaign
is continuing. Approximately $500,-
000 realized through the campaign’s
efforts was designated by donors for
scholarships, faculty salaries and
general endowment, he explained.

Although additional funds are still
needed to equip the new facilities,
President Cole said sufficient funds
are “on hand or in sight” to begin
work.

“The urgency of the need for im-
proved science accommodations has
caused the Trustees to decide to pro-
ceed,” President Cole said. “We are
confident the additional funds will
be available when they are required.”

Growing Interest in Science

President Cole cited a growing
interest and competency on the part
of W&L Students in _ science
and technology. He said Wash-
ington and Lee’s new plans will help
give proper emphasis to scientific
instruction in the university’s lib-
eral arts program and enhance its
program in pre-medical work and
pre-engineering studies.

The university plans to provide
all four scientific departments with
modern instructional laboratories and
classrooms, library and display fa-
cilities, and special facilities, in-
cluding an observatory for physics,
a vivarium and greenhouse for biol-
ogy, a seismology room for geology
and an instrumental analysis lab-
oratory for chemistry.

A special feature in all depart-
ments, President Cole pointed out,
will be separate research labora-
tory accommodations for faculty and
student projects. The Robert E. Lee
Research Fund was established re-
cently at Washington and Lee to
promote faculty-student projects in
all academic departments, includ-
ing the sciences.

Reid Hall To Be Remodeled

When the physics department and
pre-engineering studies vacate the
present Reid Hall, that building will
be available for remodeling and use
for other purposes, principally those
of the Department of Journalism and
Communications, President Cole said.
Reid Hall, built in 1904, is the only
academic building at Washington
and Lee which has not been modern-
ized.

Architects for the new project are
Clark, Nexen, and Owen of Lynch-
burg. They were assisted by repre-
sentatives of the science depart-
ments, chiefily the department heads:
Dr. Robert E. Dickey, physics; Dr.
Kenneth Stevens, biology; Dr. Es-
march S, Gilreath, chemistry; and Dr.
Edward W. Spencer, geology.

 

Notices

Pi Sigma Alpha will meet Tues-
day at 7:30 p.m. on the 3rd floor
of Newcomb Hall. All members are
urged to attend.

The UCA invites students to
meet with them at 10 p.m. on Tues-
days in the Student Union.

All entries for the Calyx beauty
contest must be in to Ned Ames
at the Delt House by Monday
night, as they will be sent to the
selector on Tuesday.
Page 2

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

Che Ring-tum Phi
A Modest Proposal (?)

Though we consider the stands that this edition has taken
as predominately liberal in principle, it has not been our mission
to consistently advocate reform, often extreme, for the sole
purpose of agitation or mere sensationalism. We hold our
task more sacred, and we will not cheapen it with “sounding
brass.” We will join, as in the past, in heralding the ‘New
Era,” but because our true allegiance is to this great university
and not to one or several of its complexes—be they administra-
tive or student—our praise will often be checked by caution,
question and possibly negation. In this task, however, we hope
to be a gadfly rather than a mouthpiece, and in our purpose, we
desire to aid in the chartering of a progressive Washington and
Lee.

We recognize the present trend in many areas of university
life to be one characterized by tighter administrative control.
The sound academic policy that such reform is fostering is
indeed more desirable than that of the past. However, along
with the more noticeable effects of this trend, we also recognize
the increasing threat of administrative intervention in those
areas formerly controlled by student will.

This threat is prevalent in the current IFC crisis. We admit
that any such intervention has complete justification either be-
cause of student neglect or abuse of privilege and responsi-
bility, but as a solution it is undesirable. If the administration
intervenes and removes all forms of student representation in
a particular area formerly under their control, then we believe
one of the great strengths of Washington and Lee—that trust
which is placed in the integrity of its student body—will be
undermined.

Rather than mutual exclusion, we recommend greater admin-
istrative and student correlation in those areas which presently
are obstacles to the ultimate progress. By working together,
mindful of one another’s interests, the two elements will achieve
more representative, and thereby, satisfying resolutions.

An organ used effectively by former President Gaines was
a Student Advisory Council which both made recommendations
and considered then current issues with the administration.
Such an advisory board, meeting frequently, could keep abreast
of the contemporary situation, and not only would the student
interest be represented in developments, but also the adminis-
tration would benefit through this healthy interchange of sug-
gestion and criticism.

The students of this university are anticipating change
and are grateful for it, but it is our opinion that they desire to
be a part of that element promoting change—both in allegiance
and in active participation.

We recognize that there are areas, such as in the IFC, in
which the student body has failed to take the necessary initiative
for progress mainly because of the satisfaction with the status
quo. But we propose that the only solution for removing any
deficiency or deterrent to the progress in those areas lies not in
the complete removal of student authority, but in the incorpora-
tion of this authority with a similar faculty-administered influ-
ence which would exert a necessary pressure upon the student
element.

The area, as we have suggested, which gives us current
concern, not only because in it the threat of intervention looms
high, but also because we recognize its failure to impose the
needed control upon the fraternities, is the IFC. The privilege
of this body to exercise such power (granted several years ago)
was not an easy victory for the student body, but such a privi-
lege can be denied with little administrative effort.

If this body can reverse its present trend of indifference and
dismissal, a solution such as we propose will not be necessary.
Its present plight is not responsible to its officers and those
members who have sought conscientiously to effect meaningful
and progressive legislation, but to the fraternities comprising
its membership which cannot bend with progress. But, if the
answer is not with the IFC, then we propose a solution arrived at
by both student and faculty-administrative representation.

The only alternative to a joint decision is direct intervention.
In 1958, a special committee of the administration, established
on a temporary basis, gained prominence by adopting the pres-
ent system of rules regarding combo and house party limitations.
This act flaunted the authority of the IFC, and the student
body accepted such intervention with a shrug of its apathetic
shoulders.

If the efforts of the IFC continue to end in failure, we
recommend that the faculty committee on fraternities, which is
composed of representatives of the administration and the
faculty, be reenforced with adequate student representation
and be re-named the University Committee on Fraternities. We
would further recommend that this committee be empowered
to act in those areas which the IFC cannot. This committee
would not deny the existence of the IFC, but it would merely en-
act legislation which the latter is incapable of passing, and pre-
vent the unilateral adoption of rules by administrative decree.

With the inception of this University Committee on Fra-
ternities a more judicious appraisal of our fraternity system
would be assured. Such areas as hell week abuses, parties and
combos which exceed the boundaries will be well on their way
to abolition, rather than stagnation in the drone IFC.

Our plea, in good faith, is for more student representation
in the determining of university policy. The act two years ago to
add a student representative to the powerful Administrative
Committee was a step in this direction. We would challenge the
student body, in particular the IFC, to meet its responsibility.
Where this is impossible, however, we would emphasize the
necessary advantages of joint participation in lieu of interven-
tion.

 

Prof. Latture Among ODK Founders;
Thursday Marks His 46th Ceremony

A soft-spoken Washington and Lee
political science professor will wear
a proud smile Thursday at the
annual Omicron Delta Kappa tap day
ceremony.

His smile, however, will have a
slightly different meaning than those
of his colleagues or some of the stu-
dents. The difference for Prof. Rupert
N. Latture is that this will be the
46th Washington and Lee tapping
for the national honorary fraternity
which he helped found.

A former student of Prof. Latture
will deliver the tap day address at
noon in Doremus Gymnasium before
an assembly of faculty and students.
H. Graham Morison, a Washington
lawyer and former assistant attor-
ney general of the U.S., will speak
at the traditional tapping ceremony
which recognizes citizenship and
leadership displayed by outstanding
undergraduate and law seniors.

Omicron Delta Kappa—founded to
bring together campus leaders in a
more relaxed atmosphere—has grown
to national stature since its inception
on December 3, 1914, at Washington
and Lee. ODK alumni have even
come to outnumber the alumni of
the 212-year-old mother institution.

The 68-year-old chairman of the
university’s political science depart-

 

ment is one of eight of the 15 origi-
nal founders of ODK still living.

The national group was not born
in a professor’s committee meeting or
in a fraternity house basement. The
idea came about in a conversation in
1914 between Prof. Latture and his
college roommate, the late James C.
Fisher.

“We simply talked about having an
informal meeting of some of the stu-
dent instructors like ourselves,” Prof.
Latture recalls. “We talked all Spring
semester, but the idea was dormant
over the summer vacation.”

In the fall the rommates chatted
with William M. Brown, a student
instructor in German, and he became
the third member of the founding
triumvirate. The plans were present-
ed to some of their favorite Wash-
ington and Lee professors and with
the support of Dr. Henry Louis
Smith, the university’s president, a
small group was formed “to bridge
the gap between faculty and stu-
dents and help make clear the aspi-
rations of each.”

Thus, on December 3, the Alpha
Circle of Omicron Delta Kappa was
born. The designation circle rather
than chapter was decided upon be-

 

 

 

cause group plans had grown to in- PROF. R. N. LATTURE, one of ODK’s i5 founders, jim
Warren Goodwyn, president of Alpha Circle, ODK plaque.

(Continued on page 4)

 

Government In The Economy: A Problem

Ry ROBERT C. KETCHAM

Friday Columnist

The prominent socialist visiting
our campus this week has brought
to mind an under-
lying issue which
was greatly dis-
cussed during the
last presidential
campaign; that of
the role of gov-
ernment in our
economy.

The speech by
Mr. Thomas was
received by the
students with en-
comium. By con-
fining his talk primarily to the East-
West conflict and the four main areas
where progress must be forthcoming
he did not raise much point of eco-
nomic conflict.

Mr. Thomas was squarely con-
fronted only one time with the eco-
nomic issue of socialism when a
student asked the “whys” of social-
ized medicine. Perhaps socialism and
Mr. Thomas are not considered as
dangerous as they once were; or
on the other hand the present day
scholar would rather profess a great-
er tolerance for conflicting ideologies.

The clash between the two labels,
liberal and conservative, was re-
cently in a quasi-contest involving
the house rules committee change.
Even some of those on campus who

 

Ketcham

 

felt that the power of the commit-
tee was too strong and inconsistent
with true democratic process backed
the conservative forces because of
fear for the President’s proposed
legislation.

This example only points out the
concern for conservatism which,
on occasion, resorts to faulty logic
to carry the day just as FDR at-
temped on the other side with his
famous court packing plan.

Students on college campuses
throughout the country are said to
be moving to the right of center in
increasing numbers. Actually I
would cite the increasing ism of
involvement rather than the real
rise of conservatism for this phenom-
ena. The sit-ins, the “march on Wash-
ington,” even denouncement of com-
pulsory R.O.T.C. are all manifesta-
tions of this new ism.

These conservative voices are cur-
rently looking to Barry Goldwater
and William Buckley, Jr., for their
leadership. Goldwater’s The Con-
science of a Conservative is reported
to be selling best at 200 collegetown
bookstores across the land. The
Arizona senator has long been con-
vinced that the American people of
conservative bent have simply had
no one to vote for. Today he seems
at least to have given the conserva-

 

G. B. Is Not A Second Rate Power;
Must Be Included In World Affairs

By JON B. McLIN
Friday Columnist

(Editor’s note: The following
article submitted by our Oxford
correspondent is in two parts. Next
week we will carry the second
part.)

Oxford, Feb. 3—Every American
who goes abroad must at some time
be amazed at the number and extent
of misconceptions which he had, prior
to leaving the States, about conditions
elsewhere in the world, and I am
no exception. Today I would like
to write about one such misconcep-
tion, the prevalence of which in the
USS. is only exceeded, I think, by its
great seriousness. This is the com-
monly held notion that, since World
War II, Britain’s role in the world
has been merely that of a second-rate
political power.

Che Ring-tum Phi

Friday Edition

The Ring-tum Phi is published Tues-
day and roy during the college year.
It is printed py. the Journalism Labor-
story Press, Washington and Lee Uni
versity. The mailing address is Box
899, Lexington, Va

Entered ag second class matter Sep-
tember 20, 1946 at the Post Office, Lex-
ington, Va., under the act of March
3, 1878.

National Advertising Representative:
The National Advertisers Service, Inc.,
420 Madison Ave., New York, N.¥

Editor-in-Chief................ Nathan Simpson
Business Manager.............. Huntley Biggs

Editorial —

Managing HEditor................ eorge Honts
Assistant Managing iitor eee

 

    
 

ities. Andy Nea
Sports Editor.. Bill Outman
Copy Editor..... .Tom Jordan
Advertising Manager.....Edward Holmes
Circulation Manager.......... Peter Agelesto

GHRCD TEATRIOP asiccercscrcscececsessesess Don McFall

 

The student at Oxford—where stu-
dents from India, Pakistan, Austral-
ia, South Africa, Nigeria, Ghana are
to be found by the score—can hard-
ly avoid the conclusion that the
British Commonwealth of Nations
is a virile, meaningful association
fraught with the importance of the
international scene of 1961.

And, if anything, these students
from the “colonies” exert an influ-
ence here far out of proportion to
their number. This can be seen from
a partial list of the Oxford societies
concerned with these countries: the
Africa Society, United Nations Asso-
ciation, East Africa Society, Friends’
(of Asians and Africans) Society,
Islamic Union, Oxford Majlis (for the
promotion of better understanding
of the peoples of Asia and Africa),
the Schweitzer Society, the South
African Association, the Far Eastern
Society, the Indian Society, the
Strasbourgh Club (concerned with
the political integration of Europe),
and JACARI—Joint Action Commit-
tee Against Racial Intolerance—
which is concerned primarily with
better understanding of Africa.

In addition to the programs of
speakers, etc., which these societies
all present, they produce an aware-
ness throughout the University which
is reflected in such programs as
War on Want, a food program for
the Congo, and a boycott against
South African goods in _ protest
against the policy of apartheid.

This international awareness is
is accentuated by the fact that the
British Foreign Service derives vir-
tually all of its officers from the
student bodies of Oxford and Cam-
bridge, and frequently their student

(Continued on page 4)

 

 

tive collegian someone to shout (or
flaunt) about.

The two points of view are in con-
flict directly when it comes to the
value of government. The liberal
of today views government as an
inherent good while the conserva-
tive finds government necessary but
nevertheless an inherent evil. To at-
tempt further to button down the
collegiate view; conservatives follow
Lockian and Jeffersonian ideals while
as Max Lerner said, liberalism of
the future must be concerned not
so much with freedom from as with
freedom for.

Today no word such as social-
ism, capitalism or Communism rep-
resents the airtight compartment
that it once did. Each system has
shopped about for methods in the
other which it can use. It is a

 

dangerous mistake to view any of
these systems as either all white
or all black.

American industrialists, and I
might add, their sons, are much
more fearful of economic admixtures
than are their European counter-
parts. Some executives of important
industries in Europe find no fault
with the government ownership of
Renault for example. The enter-
prise is self-sustaining and based
on its profits they point out. Further-
more the privately owned Deux
Chevaux, made by Citroen, outsells
the competing Renault.

Any definition of these two con-
flicting viewpoints, liberalism and
conservatism, would necessarily
presupposed some bias or overgener-
alization. In America it is really the

(Continued on page 4)

 

Res Ipsa Loquitur

Students Unite! Destroy The Iconoclasts’ Image!

Take Iconoclasm Out Of The American Living Room!

By THORNS CRAVEN
Friday Columnist

Since all the fog seems to have
settled in the form of snow there’s
not too much
around town to do.
It’s too cold to
throw snowballs at
old ladies, and the
Executive Com-
mittee frowns on
stealing sleds from
little kids, so
what’s left?

For myself I’ve
decided to en-
joy  iconoclasm
Looking at last
Friday’s paper gave me the idea, and
immediately I learned that this pleas-
ure involves listening to LP’s and
watching TV. While Victor Lasseter
outlined for us in a sketchy way
how to enjoy iconoclasm, what he
mostly did was to tell some of Mort
Sahl’s worst jokes. I decided that
there must be a better way.

In the true W&L tradition I de-
cided that the first step was to de-
fine terms. Lasseter stated that “there
has always been a strong tradition
of iconoclasm in American humor,
but with the coming of the television

Craven

 

set and the long-playing record you
can now enjoy iconoclasm in your
own living room.” Obviously the
most important word in this sentence
is “iconoclasm,” so I looked it up.
What a disturbing effect the defini-
tion had. Iconoclasm is image break-
ing!

Now in the dark days of American
humor—pre TV-LP—I can see how
this might have been fun. Everybody
would get together and break images.
But today I’m against it. Imagine a
pile of broken images on the living
room floor every night. And I have
enough trouble with dust to know
that I don’t want my diamond needle
to take on any images.

Needless to say after my prelimi-
nary investigation of iconoclasm as
Mr. Lasseter stated it (with clarifi-
cation by Webster) I’m against it.
But since I’m still interested in hu-
mor I suppose I'll have to find some
acceptable alternative form (since
this is in the true W&L tradition).
Actually it seems that any form of
humor that contains not a trace of
iconoclasm would be acceptable to
rational people. A further look at the

(Continued on page 4)

 

 

 

(VE GOTTA

   
  

LUCY WON'T TELL ME WHERE SHE |
BURIED IT 50 I'VE GOTTADIG |
TL I'FINO iT!

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

(VE JUST GOTTA DIG
AN DI6 AN’ DIG UNTIL
I FIND iT!

      

 

 

 

 

 

 

j
i
i
:

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

THE RING-TUM PHI

Page 3

 

Generals’ Team Effort Upsets R-M, 73-69;
inia Here Monday Night

Hapless Virg

By JOHN ALLGOOD
Assistant Sports Editor

Washington and Lee’s Generals
brought back memories of Southern
Conference basketball Thursday
night as they slapped Randolph-
Macon’s towering Little Eight power-
house, 73-69, at Doremus gym.

With 12:35 left in the first half,
the Generals started to click as they
overcame a three-point Randolph-
Macon advantage, and hustled to a
41-28 halftime lead.

It was truly a combined team
effort that boosted the Generals
into their commanding halftime
lead and the eventual victory.

In the first half the Generals hit
nearly everything they threw from
the floor ranging from 20-30 foot

 

33 Out For Baseball
More Players Sought

Coach Joe Lyles announced to-
day that the initial meeting of the
varsity baseball squad for the ’61
season was held last night at 7:30
p.m. All told, 33 players reported
in, yet attention is called to the
fact that any student desiring to
play this spring may still contact
Coach Lyles. The opening game is
with Dartmouth.

 

jump shots by Brett Thackston and
Bill Ide to driving layups by Bip
Fauber to a beautiful tap-in by Steve
Rutledge to an an amazing back-
handed tap-in by “Killer” Kowalski.

Kowalski’s unbelievable back-
handed tap gave Coach Bob Mc-
Henry confidence.

“The one time I thought we were
meant to win was when Kowalski
was sandwiched between two 6-5
players, and the ball went into the
basket,” McHenry said.

For the last 13 minutes of the
first half, W&L hit a phenomenal
17 of 25 shots from the floor—a
68.0 percentage.

Randolph-Macon started the sec-
ond half looking for blood, but the
Generals managed to hang on to
the victory.

With 5:00 left in the game, R-M’s
Buddy Allen tied the score, 56-56,
with two free throws.

But little Brett Thackston, who
was the Generals’ second highest
scorer for the game, sank a long
jump shot to put the Generals ahead
for keeps.

Thackston then widened the
W&L margin to five points with
another 30-foot jump shot and two
free throws.

Thackston’s two free throws with
4:45 left in the game started a string

 

WGL Boxer

Ray Robrecht

Returns To Ring Feb. 23
For Roanoke P.A.L. Bout

Washington and Lee’s one-man team returns to action on

 

of 13 straight W&L charity tosses
that clinched the game.

In the game’s final three minutes,
fiery playmaker Thackston, who was
10 for 10 from the foul line, added
four more free throws. Fauber con-
tributed five straight charity tosses
and Rutledge, two.

“The key to our second half
was foul shooting. We made our
last 13 points on free throws and
they missed several in the game’s
final minute,’ McHenry said.

“We just hung on like a machine
in the second half. We didn’t move
well, we didn’t shoot well, we just
hung on.”

 

But the first half was a different
story. The Generals did nearly every-
thing McHenry asked them to do
well.

The Generals hustled on defense,
holding Randolph-Macon to just
six field goals and a shooting per-
centage of 15.6.

The Generals boxed in the much
taller Yellow Jackets on the boards.
R-M got only five offensive rebounds
the first half, while W&L got seven
offensive rebounds.

McHenry credits the Generals’
blazing first half to many things:

“We moved well on offense. We
tried to keep the pressure on them

ve

 

February 23, after a lay-off of approximately one year. Ray Ro-
brecht is that “team,”’ and he will be fighting the ninth match
of his career.

~ GENERALS IN ACTION—Rutledge (12)

by hustling, hustling, and hustling.
We really hustled on defense. We
really scrapped on the boards. The
boys were dead set on winning.
Their play was all heart.”

Those are some of the contribut-
ing factors that make a top flight
basketball club and the Generals
displayed them last night.

McHenry was very pleased over
the Generals’ ability to do anything
he asked them to do.

“They did almost everything I
could ever ask them to do in a game.
They switched defensive assignments.
They changed offensive positions.
They used two different offenses.

 

 

 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
   
 
 
 
 
  

ew

RAY ROBRECHT
Prepares For Coming Bout

 

' meet the Quantico Marine team from
' Quantico, Va.

 

Lexington
Laundro Matic

209 S. Main
*

HAND IRONED
SHIRTS

Dry Cleaning
Service

for your convenience

 

 

 

 

Robrecht has been fighting inter-
mittently now for the past six years,
and although he has managed to
squeeze in only these few bouts, he |
has received an A.B. degree from |
this University and is at present
an intermediate law student.

The bout this year will take place

Dodge and Dodge Dart!
and Lancer

America’s First Fine

ECONOMY CAR

at the Roanoke National Guard Arm- *

ory on Thursday, Feb. 23, at 8:30

p.m. Ray will once again be fighting Rockbridge Motor Co.
for the Roanoke Police Athletic INC.

League for which he has been a
team member for the past five years.

Ray will be carrying a_ perfect
8-0 record into this year’s bout, as
once again the Roanke P.A.L. will

Phone HObart 3-3146

 

SPENCER

General Tire

Two year’s ago, Robrecht cap-
tured the Virginia Golden Gloves
championship in the novice di-
vision, while last year he won two
bouts in Roanoke. The first of these
was against fellow P.A.L. member
Dudley Donnelly, while the sec-
ond bout he won a unanimous de-
cesion from 2nd Lt. Allen Hansen
of the Quantico Marine team.

As Virginia Golden Gloves middle- Best in Tires
weight champion, Ray has had little}
competition, however, with the P.A.L. | 3 ;@ a
he has managed to earn a respectful ie
5-0 record to show for his trouble.! ¢
In preparation for this coming bout, | @
Robrecht has been working out rather | e
seriously for the past three weeks.! »
His training schedule has included ®
two and one-half hours of roadwork | 9
every morning, and approximately! ®
(Continued « on page 4) _

E. Nelson Street Extension

 

Best in Recapping
Kraft Tread

Compact Tires

 

 

 

~——vweewreeevewewewveweeve+Tre?TwvT'Tr=’'<ver™’e’}|}T.}C CVV CTT eee ew?

FOR YOUR VALENTINE NEEDS

The Most Unusual
Insulting . . . Eye-Catching . . . Devastating
Fabulous ... or Just Plain Loveable

CARDS

The Book Shop

W. Washington Street

lial a ll itil ta

 

 

 

 

‘DIXON'S,

ESSO SERVICE CENTER
ROUTE 60 EAST IN LEXINGTON

Across from the White Top Resturant
HO 3-4214

Wash, Grease, Lube, Road Service

Charge Accounts Welcome

 

 

 

FORMAL WEAR

 

 

and
Complete Formal Accessories
The
COLLEGE TOWN

Shop

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

       

iTS CeaR FS a
17'S Ceean 11S

VASELINE

 

i i ie i i i i i i i i in A i i

HICKMAN’S ESSO

South Main Street
HO 3-2024

 

 

 

And they played a good game.”

Fauber paced the W&L scor-
ing with 23 points, his best effort
of the year. The 6-2 forward made
eight of 13 shots from the floor—
a 61.7 percentage—and seven of
nine free throws—a 77.7 percent-
age. Fauber, who didn’t let up at
anytime during the game, grabbed
17 rebounds and slowed down
Frank Kamiski, R-M’s big gun,
late in the second half when Mc-
Henry assigned Kamiski to him.

Joining Fauber in the scoring pa-
rade were Thackston with 18 points;
Rutledge, who played his best game
of the season, with 11 points; and
Ide and Kowalski, who both played
good games, with seven points each.

The Generals, who spotted Ran-
dolph-Macon two inches per man,
outrebounded the Yellow Jackets,
59-56. Rutledge trailed Fauber in
the W&L rebounding department
with 12, his season high.

Kamiski topped both the Ran-
dolph-Macon scoring and rebound-
ing with 27 points and 18 rebounds.

Washington and Lee hit 24 of 63
shots from the floor for a 39.7 per-
centage, its best of the season and
sank 25 of 31 free throws for a
phenomenal 80.7 percentage.

LP eeee ede e eed eteds
ROBERT E. LEE
BARBERSHOP

David M. Moore
Proprietor

 

 

epeobeogecfectoototeree

%

%
%
%
~
%
%
%
%
%
%

deo ooo obobetetetetetetetetetetetetetedee

usiness
usiness
IERER’S

PHARMACY

 

It’s Good
To Do
with

 

 

 

 

oofe Go rhe ere sfe nde ofe rhe oho afore ole she fe ohe oho oe ole ake ole ole ole

CALL BY NUMBER
and Save Time

LEXINGTON
TELEPHONE CO.

Meteor rferhe ere

Annan nnn nnn enn ne Al seobobteobobobetedeobofededecbobobetededeototedeotok
SOCHHSSSSSSHSSSSSSSHSSSSHSSSHHSSHSSOCSSSSSSSSSSOHESSSSSEES

how to win by a head |

Winning glances that lead to romance(s) are easy to come
by if you go buy ‘Vaseline’ Hair Tonic—made specially for
men who use water with their hair tonic.
Tonic is 100% pure light grooming oil—replaces oil that
water removes. ‘Vaseline’ Hair Tonic won’t evaporate, stays
clear and clean on your hair. And just a little does a lot!

*WASELINE

FOR ROOM RESERVATIONS—CALL HO 3-2151

LEXINGTON MOTEL °
Large Rooms—U. S. 11 By-Pass South >
Free TV—Phones—Continental Breakfast :
°

‘Vaseline’ Hair

Only Motel in corporate limits of Lexington
COSCOOHOHOSOSHHOSOHSOOHOOHOOOSOOEESEEOOSOOOEEEOES

 

eg

 

er :
SONS Tf

  
   
     

Greens ond Constiens
fees _ the Matera! Way
Cheeks Ory Sealy ant
eese Oanérett

 

 

 

18 A REGISTERED TRACEMARK OF CHESEBROUGH POND'E INO
Page 4

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

Prof. Latture Marks Anniversary
As One Of ODK Founders

(Continued from page 2)

clude a variety of student activities.

The purpose of the new group—
a purpose that has remained un-
changed in 46 years—was threefold:
to recognize men who have attain-
ed a high standard of efficiency in
collegiate activities, to bring to-
gether the most representative men
in all phases of college life and to
collect members of the faculty and
student body of an institution on the
bases of mutual interests and under-
standing.

“The objectives we set in 1914 and
early 1915 have not changed one
iota,” Prof, Latture notes proudly.
“I’m constantly impressed with the
sincerity with which the boys on
this campus and others work in their
selections of new members, and I
ought to know since I’ve only missed
four meetings of the Alpha Circle in
some 40 years and sat in a lot of
meetings at other colleges.”

ODK was not destined to remain
a local group for long, however.
Within a year, Johns Hopkins Uni-
versity established a circle largely
through the efforts of Dr. Robert
Dickey, a graduate student there in
those days and now head of Wash-
ington and Lee’s physics depart-
ment.

The University of Pittsburgh set
up the third circle after Prof. Lat-
ture, then a graduate student at
Washington and Lee, appeared in a
debating tournament there sporting
a strange looking key. The specially-
designed key piqued their interest
and they began asking questions
about ODK and its purpose. (The
key was designed by Prof. Latture
and embraces the Greek letters Omi-
cron Delta Kappa and a star for
each of the 15 founders.)

Since 1917 some 90 ODK circles
have been formed at colleges and
universities throughout the country.

Such men as Presidents Herbert
Hoover and Franklin D. Roosevelt,
General of the Army George C. Mar-
shall, Secretary of State Dean Rusk,
Secretary of the Army Elvis J. Starr,
former American Bar Association
president Ross Malone and the new
president of the American council
on education, Dr. Logan Wilson, have
worn the ODK key.

“I am still everwhelmed when I
think of the expansion of our group
and it is most gratifying to see that

 

 

STATE

LEXINGTON, VA

 

 

“WHY CAN'T
| STOP?"

M-G-M presents

ELIZABETH TAYLOR
LAURENCE HARVEY
EDDIE FISHER

in JOHN O'HARA’S

*“BUTTERFIEL

=
8’

cinemascore » METROCOLOR

 

 

SUN. - MON. - TUES.
Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer presen
GEORGE SANDERS

BARBARA SHELLEY.

 
 
     

  

ODK maintains a steady level of
prestige at most colleges,” Prof. Lat-
ture said.

An example of its popularity and
rank at many colleges is exempli-
fied by the consistent John Hopkins
students’ claim that ODK is the
“highest honor on campus.”

Two years ago, Washington and
Lee students in cooperation with
the national office of ODK presented
Prof. Latture, a member of the uni-
versity’s faculty since 1920, with
a certificate citing his steadfast con-
tributions to the progress of the na-
tional group.

Prof. Latture is a native of Bristol,
Tenn., and served with the French
Army in 1917 and 1918 receiving the
coveted Croix de Guerre. He was
valedictorian of his graduating class
in 1915 and is a member of Phi Beta

Kappa.

Icons Cited:
Calls For Unity

(Continued from page 2)

definition bears this out.

The practitioner of iconoclasm is
called an iconoclast. Here’s what
Webster says about that vile crea-
ture: “A breaker of icons, or images;
an opponent of religious use of im-
ages. One who attacks cherished
beliefs as shams.” (The adj. is icono-
clastic). Need I say more? Imagine
America’s youth being poisoned by
icon breakers. The zip guns of the
country will be turned on the stained
glass windows. The father and moth-
er images will be smashed (and with
that the Greek classics will suffer.
Who will remember Oedipus and
Electra?) The list lengthens and I’m
apalled.

Let’s band together and get this
iconoclasm out of American living
rooms. We can get the Chamber of
Commerce to make it: “Clean-up.
Paint-up, Fix-up, Deiconoclize-up
Week.” There’s so much work to be
done. The first step is to break all
Mort Sahl records. Destroy the image
of the iconoclasts. Students of Amer-
ica, unite!

PWEiC

FRL-SAT.

 

 

 

 

 

 

Released by
© 20t» Century-Fox
COLOR by DE LUXE

 

 

LOPPHEUS

 

 

 

 

TETLOW
TV Service

221 S. Main HO 3-2841

 

 

 

 

 

 

Expert Motor Work

FOREIGN CARS AND STUDEBAKER LARKS
OUR SPECIALTY

Open 8:00 a.m.—8:00 p.m.

MAIN STREET MOBIL STATION

 

 

 

 

THE COLLEGE INN

The Best Food in Town

American and Italian

Catering to the Students, Faculty,
and Towns People

OPEN SUNDAYS

 

 

(Continued from page 2)

careers augur the kind of profes-
sional future they will have.

Is this importance ascribed to the
colonies on Oxford only apparent or
is it real? And, if real, is there a
reason for it which often goes un-
noticed? I would claim that it is real
and that there is an important reason
for it. Britain recognizes the import-
ance of her Commonwealth ties, and
by maintaining them in good faith
she is doing no less than holding
Africa and Asia for the West.

This is a sweeping statement and
should not be accepted without an
examination of what is involved. Its
justification lies, I think, in the fact
that British Colonial policies in this
century have been extraordinarily
wise, realistic, and foresighted. This
is true both for basic policies and
the manner in which these policies
have been executed.

There are at least two significant
aspects of basic policy which show
this political wisdom. First is the
underlying British assumption that
they were going to the colonies as
temporary administrators, not—as
with the French colonizers—as per-
manent settlers. Second is the point
that the British—in sharp contrast
to the Belgians in the Congo— have
in most cases taken great pains to
train native administrators for the
day when they would take over their
own country.

The latter principle was of great
importance to the successful con-
summation of the colonial relation-
ship when the British made such
courageous and wise decisions as
those to pull out of India in 1947 or
out of Ghana in 1951 or to allow the

 

establishment of an _ independent
Seeovesoroesorsrsooreees
: JEWELERS :
+ Lexington, Virginia

z HO 3-2833

*

ede rbe erdere bone ole ofe ote endo rde be obese rhe oeoerfe ode sfonde
Te eee fete:
¥

NEW TOWN INN
Short Orders—Lunches
Catering to Students

 

Whe oo ne oe she ake ofa fe afoot

BP eee

:
;
:
;
;

 

 

 

G.B. Is Not A Second Rate Power

Union of South Africa in 1903. Other
wise acts of colonial administration
may be seen in the quick and effec-
tive way in which the Mau Mau re-
bellion in Kenya was squelched; in
the smooth transition to indepen-
dence made in Nigeria last fall; in
the way in which British citizens
were protected in the Congo last
summer; and in the current policy
of restraining independence for
Tanganyika—in cooperation with
the statesmanlike efforts of Nyer-
ere—until Kenya is also ready, and
their joint independence can be
consummated in an East African fed-
eration.

It is my contention that the threat
of increased Communist influence in
Asia and Africa has been greatly
mitigated by these wise policies of
colonial administration which have
allowed the newly independent na-
tions to retain, with dignity, close
ties to Britain and hence to the
West. This is especially significant
when it is remembered that the
hopes of the West in these two great
continents rest largely on the
strength of three countries, all for-
mer British colonies; India, Ghana,
and Nigeria.

 

Robrecht Right Feb. 23

(Continued from page 3)

two hours of exercise in the gymna-
sium every afternoon. The afternoon
workouts have included working
with weights, shadow boxing, and
sparing with students willing to stay
in the handball court he uses for a
“ring.”

His partners for this year have
included Dick Rose, who did some
boxing at Cornell University, Roy
Carpenter, and Brant Chamberlain.

 

 

BROWN’S
CLEANING
WORKS

We Call for and Deliver
24 Hour Service
Student agents in the
dormitory and fraternities
HO 3-2013 14 Randolph St.

 

 

 

Ketcham Considers Government’s Role In Economy;
Favors Current Student Trend To Conservatism

(Continued from page 2)

battle of The New Republic and The
Progressive versus The National Re-
view. As Justice Holmes once said,
“No generalization is entirely true,
including this one” and we must go
on.

Where then have we come to?
What similarities are there? The first
example is that concept of the profit
motive which Americans believe in.
American industrialists usually
equate profits with our system of
free enterprise. Mr. Peter F. Drucker
in his book Concept of the Corpora-
tion says that a society which accepts
economic advancement as socially
desirable will find the profit motive
the most efficient device for achiev-
ing it.

But does Russia have something
that can also be called profit? I
think it does. It has it in the sense
that Russia has been consuming
less than it produces. The surplus
or profit is for the whole of the
Russian economy.

I have already mentioned John
Locke. At one time the liberal view
was founded on the shoals of “rug-
ged individualism.” According to
Locke, the government exists for
the purpose of protecting individual
rights. Jeremy Bentham has rendered
obsolete the natural rights concept as

 

 

 

 

THE DUTCH INN

For Reservation Call
MRS. KATHERINE ADAMS
HO 3-3433

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

TEXACO

Super Service Station
Lexington, Virginia
Corner Main and Nelson

 

 

a i i

Waggy’s Jewelers
35 S. Main Street
Phone HO 3-4121

THE HOME OF QUALITY

ro | CC COSC CCCCe

 

Here's one filter cigarette that’s really different!

The difference is this: Tareyton’s Dual Filter gives you a
unique inner filter of ACTIVATED CHARCOAL, definitely proved to
make the taste of a cigarette mild and smooth. It works together with
a pure white outer filter—to balance the flavor elements in the smoke.

Tareyton delivers—and you enjoy—the best taste of the best tobaccos.

 

advanced by Locke. So also with
T. H. Green who replaced the laissez-
faire, individualistic values of Locke
with values of utilitarian social or
organic communal significance.

Perhaps I have stayed too shallow
by only skimming the surface while
looking at huge rocks on the bottom.
However, I do feel that the present
expression of conservatism among the
students of this country has much
validity. Validity in the sense that
we must reconcile the basic contra-
diction between Lockean assump-
tions of the modern world with the
organizing power of the State. Only
by finding the middle way, the via
media anglica, can we hope to elim-
inate the serious economic setbacks
we have lately experienced and still
retain our much loved freedom.

 

 

TOLLEY’S PHARMACY
Prescriptions Filled
Immediately

PURCHASE DRUGS
HO 3-2211

 

 

 

Hamric and Sheridan
JEWELERS

Watch and Jewelry Repair
Hand Engraving and Class Rings

HO 3-2022

 

 

 

worrruereverenereorves

Baker
Ford Sales

BETTER DEALS

CLEARANCE
of lot for 1961 Models
NEW AND
USED CARS

Highway 60 East

Se Be Me Be Be Be Me Me Me Ba Me Be Me Ba Ba te te te Be te le Be Be Be Be ite tle te Bette BeBe
eS ee ST

 

 

 

 
 

Special ODK
Edition

Che Ring-tum Phi

Washington and Lee Semi-Weekly Newspaper

Special ODK
Edition

 

Volume LXI

LEXINGTON, VRGINIA, FEBRUARY 16, 1961

Number 35

 

17 Students Tapped In Noon ODK Ceremony

The outstanding campus leaders of
W&L were honored today with an
ODK tap, the “greatest honor that
can come to you in this phase of
your life,” as H. Graham Morison
warned the student body against the
the threat of orthodoxy and con-
formity in life.

Mr. Morison, who attended Wash-
ington and Lee, both as an under-
graduate and as a student of law,
graduated with an LL.B. in 1932. He
was an outstanding student body
leader while at the University. Mr.
Morison was Assistant Attorney
General of the United States under
President Truman, where he receiv-
ed fame as the prosecutor in the
union coal strikes of 1948-1949.

The 1961 tap marks the 46th con-
vocation of the Washington and Lee
student body for the ODK cere-
monies. Omicron Delta Kappa, with
chapters at most of the leading col-
leges and universities of the nation,
was founded at Washington and Lee
in 1914 as an honorary leadership
fraternity.

Distinguished alumni Charles
Luther Claunch and Dr. George
Barksdale Craddock were also tapped
today. Mr. Claunch, a resident of
Chattanooga, Tenn., and a member
of the Class of ’27, is a lawyer in the
firm of Swafford and Claunch since
1945. He was born Feb. 7, 1906, and
was at W&L from 1923 to 1929, re-

 

ceiving the LL.B. degree in the lat-
ter year.

Dr. Craddock is a Captain in the
Army Medical Corps, and was a
member of the Class of ’30. He is a
member of SAE and presently resides
in Lynchburg, Va., as a physician.

Mr. Morison was also tapped dur-
ing the ceremony.

The seventeen
were as follows:

EDWARD ALMER AMES, Delta
Tau Delta Senior from Accomac,
Treasurer and Secretary of his fra-
ternity, Editor of the CALYX; Fresh-
man Handbook Editor; Publications
Board Secretary; Mock Convention
State Chairman; Dean’s List; Who’s
Who in American Colleges and Uni-
versities.

JOHN ALFRED BROADDUS, Sigma
Nu Senior from Richmond; President
Finals Dances, Phi Eta Sigma, Cross-
country, Who’s Who in American
Colleges and Universities, Dormi-
tory Counselor.

WILLIAM THOMAS BUICE, III,
SAE Senior from Charlotte, N.C., has
served as Vice President and Pres-
ident of his Fraternity; Senior Class
Representative to the Executive
Committee of the Student Body;
Freshman Camp Counselor; Varsity
Basketball; W&L Debate Team Mem-
ber; Dean’s List; Who’s Who. in
American Colleges and Universities.

students tapped

 

Plans For New Dorm Announced;

Should Be Ready

Washington and Lee University
announced today that it will build
a new, four-story dormitory, primar-
ily for freshmen, but with some ac-
commodations for upperclassmen.

President Fred C. Cole said the
new unit will house 91 students, and
is planned for occupancy in Sept.,
1962.

Plans for the building will be sub-
mitted to contractors for bids this
month, along with plans for a pre-
viously announced new science
building and new wing and remodel-
ing of the present science building.
Contractors will be invited to bid on
the projects separately or jointly,
President Cole said.

The new dormitory will complete
a three-unit student housing center.
Two other facilities, Newton D.
Baker Dormitory for upperclassmen
and John W. Davis Dormitory for
law students, were completed in 1959, |
along with the Letitia Pate Evans)
Dining Hall. The new dormitory will |

 

By Fall Of 1962

connect with Davis Hall, forming an
inverted U-shaped arrangement with
the other units.

Use of the new dormitory will en-
able Washington and Lee to elimi-
nate housing some freshmen in small,
auxiliary dormitories. Of the uni-
versity’s normal class of 320 fresh-
men, only 277 can be accommodated
in the regular freshman dormitory.
Others are housed in two university-
owned. residences, one of which will
be removed to make room for the
new, modern building.

The new. addition will also permit
greater flexibility in upperclass hous-
ing arrangements, President Cole
said,

Student: accommodations in the
new structure will include 39 single
rooms,.23 double rooms, and six
single rooms for student counselors.
The building actually will be divided
into two units, separated by a solid
firewall, with no direct passage be-
tween the two units.

ROY CARPENTER, Senior from
Bryan, Texas. Phi Eta Sigma; Uni-
versity Christian Association Boy’s
Club President; Freshman Dormitory
Counselor; Baseball for 4 Years;
Deans List; Honor Roll; Who’s Who
in American Colleges and Universi-
ties.

PAUL HUBER COFFEY, JR., 1954
graduate of Richmond Professional
Institute of the College of William
and Mary. President of the Student
Bar Association and _ Treasurer;

Chairman Law School Board of
Governors; Associate Editor of the
Law Review; Vice President of the
Senior Class; Who’s Who in Ameri-
can Colleges and Universities.

STEPHEN IRA DANZANSKY, ZBT
Senior from Washington, D.C. Head
Cheerleader; Director and Producer
of the SWMSFC Musical for the past
two years; Troubadours; Concert
Guild; Vice President Fancy Dress;
Dean’s List.

LYMAN CHRISTIAN HARRELL,

 

 

III, Senior Law Student from Empor-
ia, Va. Secretary of Student Bar As-
sociation; Managing Editor of the
Ring-tum Phi; President of the Pub-
lications Board; Chairman of the
Cold Check Committee; Moot Court
Alternate; Editor W&L Lawyer; Edi-
tor Southern Collegian; Who’s Who
in American Colleges and Universi-
ties.

EDWARD BRADFORD LADD, Sen-
ior Beta from Mobile, Ala., has served
as Secretary of his Fraternity; Vice

 

By HAL McCALANAHAN

Steve Danzansky, director of the
1961 SWMSFC Musical, announced
the cast for the coming production
last Sunday night at the play’s first
reading. In releasing the cast Dan-
zansky gave only the names of those
who had received parts, not the char-
acter they will portray.

Cal deColigny, Beta, and Andy
Leonard, Lambda Chi, received the
male leads. Deborah Doherty and
Nancy Duncan, both of Sweet Briar,
will portray the major female roles.

Both deColigny and Leonard have
had previous acting experience.
deColigny has appeared in the fol-
lowing Troubadour productions:
“Witness for the Prosecution” and
“Measure for Measure.” He has also
acted professionally in “The Com-

 

Fauber, Thackston Lead In Scoring

 

mon Glory” and “The Founders,”
outdoor plays given in Williamsburg,
Va. Leonard, also a Troubador, has
appeared in “The Lady’s Not for
Burning.” Nancy and Deborah have
also had previous acting experience.

Playing the supporting male leads
are Tom Andrew, John Towler, and
Firth Spiegel.

In all, a cast of 23 boys and 15
girls was named. Those boys getting
parts were Pete Alford, Pete Trager,
Arthur Portnoy, Stewart Yoffe, Ed
Croft, Richard Coplan, Brian Dorsk,
Harry Teter, Ronald Alenstein, Phil-
lip Booth, Herbert Salomon, John
Winebrenner, Bruce Whelihan, Wes
Ostergren, Samuel Hellman, Rich-
ard Schulist, and Bartlett Chamber-
lain. Except for those girls playing
the female leads, names of support-
in actresses from Sweet Briar were

 

 

 

Leading players in SWMSFC Musical practice in old Co-op.

Cast For Musical Is Announced

not given.

Danzansky went on to point out
that the number of actors and char-
acters will fluctuate from drop-outs
and recharacterizations for about the
first two weeks of rehearsal before
the cast is stabilized.

Including actors, approximately
125 people will be involved in the
play’s production. Helping Steve will
be assistant director, Ronald Alen-
stein; art director, Nancy Smail;
property director, Ed Ladd; female
and male vocal directors, Chris
Christie and Don Partington, re-
spectively; stage manager, Scott Ia-
cone; master carpenter, John Am-
brose; lighting director, Wink Mc-
Kinnon; sound director, Billy Stan-
ley; and choreographer, Peggy John-
son. Gene Johnson will conduct the
musical’s fifteen piece orchestra.

Calm And Collected Generals Trounce

The Washington and Lee basketball
team upset the University of Virginia
Cavaliers by a score of 78-68 Mon-
day night in Doremus Gymnasium.
The Generals played their best game
of the season to pull off, in McHenry’s
words, “the greatest win here in a
long, long time.”

The Generals started fast, with Bip
Fauber scoring seven of their first
eight points. They took a 34-31 lead
into the locker rom at the half, and |
went ahead permanently 52-51 on |
Brett Thackston’s two free throws

 

 

W&L G F T
ee 9 8-11 26
a vnsessicisscsee ,: @ 4|
0 Se 1 3-3 5 |
ee. 4 1-5 9)
FRRERION cesscsssccssses 8 11-12 27!
TONE co ccctoisticsamon : t4 0|
1 0-0 2|
0 Se 0 5-6 |
ie 24 30-39 78

 

 

with 7:30 left to play. They pulled |
away by hitting 13 of 16 free throws |
in the last three minutes.

The crowd, which had been build- |
up to a fever pitch in forty minutes |
play, literally exploded onto the|
court at the final buzzer. McHenry |
and Fauber were carried off the |
court on the shoulders of excited |
fans, McHenry to be given a fast)
shower by the players, and Fauber |
to pull the net off the basket. Fauber, |
who hit for 26 points and got 24)
rebounds, tops for the night in that
department, received the game ball

for his stellar performance. Brett
Thackston, who poured in 27 points
to lead all scorers, got the net as his
souvenir of the momentous victory.
Individually Fauber, Thackston,

Fauber sank 9 of 17 for 52.7 per cent,
Thackston dropped 8 of 16, and Ide
hit 4 of 8. Thackston also sank 11
of 12 free throws for 91.6 per cent,

| Generals’ 78 points. Bill Smith also
won McHenry’s plaudits for the
hustling, aggressive game that he
| played.

| All told, the Generals made good

 

and Bill Ide all hit on 50 per cent| for 72.7 per cent. Between the three | on 42.1 per cent of their field goal
or more of their shots from the floor.| of them they accounted for 62 of the! attempts, their best effort of the year,

r ae

Bill Ide and Dave Grogan go up for the basket in the Generals’

 

| while Fauber made good on 8 of 11

ae

vy

:
>

  

5

service as Bip Fauber and Brett Thackston led W&L to a 78-68 victory.

 

and 76.9 per cent of their foul shots.
The game was won on the foul line,
where the Generals, outscored 26-24
from the floor, made good on 30 of
39 attempts, compared to 16 of 30
for the Wahoos. The Generals’ sup-
erior shooting percentages won the

Monday night upset of Virginia at Doremus Gymnasium, Ide and Grogan did yeoman

—Photo by Young

President of the Commerce School;
Editor-in-Chief of the Calyx; Publi-
cations Board Vice President; Scab-
bard and Blade; Vice President of
three Dance Sets; Who’s Who in
American Colleges and Universities.

DAVID LEFKOWITZ, Ill, a ZBT
Senior from Shreveport, La., is pres-
ently serving as President of the
IFC; Treasurer and President of the
SWMSFC; Freshman Camp Counsel-
or; Student Service Society; Dean’s
List; Who’s Who.

JOHN COOPER MORRISON, JR.,
Senior Law Student from Charleston,
W. Va., has served as President of
Sigma Chi; President of the Student
Bar Association; President of the
Freshman Law Class; Chairman of
the Cold Check Committee; Co-
Chairman of the Moot Court Team;
Who’s Who in American Colleges and
Universities.

WILLIAM DELL OUTMAN, Pi Kap-
pa Alpha Junior from Washington,
D.C., Sophomore Executive Commit-
teeman; Sports Editor of the Ring-
tum Phi; President of Spring Dances;
Dormitory Counselor; Freshman
Camp Counselor; Deans List.

ROSEWELL PAGE, III, SAE Junior
from Beaver Dam, Va. Outstanding
Freshman Award; Junior Class Rep-
resentative to the Executive Com-
mittee; Editor of the Tuesday Edi-
tion of the Ring-tum Phi; SWMSFC;
Football; Baseball; Phi Eta Sigma;
Honor Roll.

DONALD HERBERT PARTING-
TON, Phi Gamma Delta Senior from
Culpeper, Va. He has served as Pres-
ident of his Fraternity, President of
Fancy Dress; Freshman Dormitory
Counselor; Chairman of the Assimi-
lation Committee; President of the
Glee Club; Dean’s List; Who’s who
in American Colleges and Universi-
ties.

RAYMOND ROBERT ROBRECHT,
JR., Intermediate Law Student from
Plainville, N. J. President of Phi
Gamma Delta; Head Dormitory
Counselor for two years; Represen-
tative to the Executive Committee
of the Student Body from the Inter-
mediate Law Class; Contributor to
the W&L Law Review; Dean’s List;
Boxing.

NATHAN P. SIMPSON, Kappa Al-
pha Senior from Tampa, Fla. Served
as President of his fraternity; Edi-
tor-in-Chief of the Friday Edition
of the Ring-tum Phi; President of
Scabbard and Blade; ROTC Battle
Group Commander; Freshman Dor-

 

 

 

(Continued on page 4)

Wahoos

game, since the Wahoos outrebound-
ed them, 63-52.

For UVa, Gene Engle had 23 points
and 17 rebounds, while Walt Dens-
more scored 14. The W&L defense
effectively bottled up UVa’s hotshot
guards, Tony Laquintano and John
Hasbrouck, who scored 8 and 3 points
respectively.

The crowd that packed Doremus
Gym also came in for praise from
McHenry. The noise from an estimat-
ed 700 fans, plus assorted cowbells

 

 

 

UVa G F z
MN ee hcisuininen 2 3-4 7
EE istsisvccsviccsnrns 3 2-4 8
BEE icticcsssricesnns 8 7-14 23
Hasbrouck. ............... 1 1-1 3
Laquintano .............. 3 2-3 8
Densmore ................ 7 0-0 14
ia 2 0-2 4
PE icin 0 1-2 1

ae 16-30 68
and birdcalls, carried at least as
far as Howe Hall, and kept up
constantly, dying down only when
the Generals were shooting free

throws. Such a display hasn’t been
seen here since Steve Suttle had to
beg for quiet during last fall’s football
game with Johns Hopkins.

In a

Monday afternoon game
game the Brigadier Generals, down
38-30 at the half, came from be-
hind to beat Massanutten 77-74 in
overtime. Howard Martin led all

scorers with 34. The Brigadiers’ rec-
ord is now 10-3.
 

Page 2

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

Che King-tum Phi

Tuesday

Edition

 

UVa. Et Cetera

We beat “State”! The Cavaliers have fallen. To the ‘‘auto-

matic” and injury ridden Generals of the court we say thanks

and congratulations.

The Generals were an inspired team last Monday night.
They played without the services of two of the early season
starters. Ken Kowalski is out with a leg injury and Big John
McDowell fell under the automatic after the first semester.

How could those same Generals who have dropped a de-
cision to Hampden-Sydney since the semester break, knock off
the Cavaliers who, earlier in the season ran one of the leading
teams in the Atlantic Coast Conference into an overtime?
Guts and determination were the deciding factors. The Gen-

erals never let up. They never “

clutched.”

When the teams left the court at half time, W&L held
a three point advantage. Everybody knew it couldn’t last.
The Cavaliers seemed especially sure that the roof would cave
in after intermission. W&L men were offering “Virginia and

fifteen.” There were no takers.

After the half the Generals seemed cooler than ever. When
they fell behind by one point early in the second period, the
home crowd, at least where we were seated, seemed to feel that
“it was all over” and some of the group began to sigh over the

virtue of the “moral victory.”

But the expected break never

came. The score was tied and then the Generals pulled ahead for

good.

The moral to our story: you can’t corner the market on guts.

You can buy the talent and the

big names, but don’t count out

the boys who play for fun. There is not a scholarship man on
that basketball team. One of the injured players has been on
scholastic scholarship. The stipend was withdrawn when he
failed to make the required grade.

“The W&L System” will work.

 

Webster Unabrid ged

Grayfred Gray, ‘Protest’ Author,
Wants ‘Violent Negative Reaction’

By ED WEBSTER

Grayfred Gray, the progenitor of
“Protest,” has seen a good bit of
life. He doesn’t like it.

For him, the basis of a good life,
and the heart of society, is the self-
fulfillment of the individual. Per-
sonal integrity, and a healthy ability
to cope with life, are the mainstays
of his code.

Protest, he feels, is an essential
way of action against the imperfec-
tions of modern American middle-
class emptiness.

Gray lives above the Lyric Theater
in a simple apartment, decorated
only with some painting by young
Richmond artists. With a wavy
shock of brown hair combed back,
and the promise of a beard sprouting
from his face, he confronts you with
frank gray eyes.

“Ym not a humanitarian,” he
says, “because most men stink.”
The trouble with man, Gray be-
lieves, is not that he is an ignoble
creature, but that he is failing to
realize his essential nobility.

Gray’s philosophy, although cen-
tered around protest, also has a
positive ethic. “I like to think of my-
self as an old-line American,” he
says. “You might call me an Ameri-
can Romantic.”

Because America is founded on
personal integrity and individuality,
Gray feels that this country can still
produce the kind of society that he
wants. “But self-fulfillment doesn’t
necessarily require democracy,” he
warns.

Among the men of history, Gray
most admires Jesus, “because he
lived by what he thought was right,”
and Nietzsche, because of his concep-
tion of the power of the individual.

In religion, Gray may be classed
as a skeptical Unitarian.

He’s not what we usually call a
beat. He has found that the exist-

 

ence is too empty for him.

Gray came to W&L in 1956, after
graduating from high school “just so
I could spite my old man.” His first
two years were taken in “trying des-
perately” to defend his Christian
ethic.

At the end of his sophomore year,
having learned of the San Francisco
renaissance from a Phi Beta Kappa
speaker, he headed West. There, he
hoped, he would be able to fulfill
his ambition to write. But three
weeks in Frisco taught him that the
city’s intellectual activity, if any, was
hidden beneath a carefree surface.

For the last month of that sum-
mer he rented a cabin at Goshen,
and wrote and thought until school
started.

After a junior year in which “facts
were piled on facts” with little real
knowledge being produced, Gray
drifted around the East for a while.
He settled in an apartment near
Richmond Professional Institute,
where art students and Virginia bo-
hemians congregate.

There he got a job as a clerk (“it
convinced me that I don’t want to
work again if I can avoid it”), saw
a psychiatrist, and published the first
three issues of “Protest.”

In March, 1960, having had
enough of Richmond, Gray con-
tracted a sudden marriage (since
broken up), and headed for Cal-
ifornia. He found himself working
again—but only because he needed
the money to return to W&L in
September.

Gray, now 22 years old and inde-
pendent, is a philosophy major with
honor-roll grades.

The purpose of his one-page mime-
ographed “Protest,” he says, is “to
shock people into awareness.” In his
first two issues, he attacked aspects
of contemporary concern that are
usually left alone by student pub-
lications. His sallies were vehement

(Continued on vage 4)

 

PEANUTS

GOTTA Di6 EVERYWHERE UNTIL
T FIND THAT BLANKET! GOTTA
FIND IT! GOTTA FIND IT! |

 

 

 

 

 

Af

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

O DK Day

 

The annual ODK tapping cere-
mony is Washington and Lee’s big-
gest surprise party.

Not one of the men tapped for
ODK membership in Doremus Gym-
nasium this morning knew before-
hand that he was going to receive
what is perhaps the highest honor
W&L can offer to a member of its
student body.

Selection of ODK members is a
long and involved process, designed
not only to enable faculty and stu-

dent committees to choose the best
men for the honor, but also to keep
those men finally chosen from finding
out before the actual ceremonies, ac-
cording to Professor R. N. Latture,
one of the original founders of ODK.

He said that several meetings
were held during the school year
for discussion of potential ODK
members.

Committees from the junior and
senior classes, the law school faculty
and the academic school faculty take

 

part in the discussions, during which
the merits of the individuals up for
membership are considered.

Membership is based on partici-
pation and leadership in five areas
of student life: student government;
publications; athletics; social and re-
ligious affairs; and speech, drama
and other arts.

Superior scholarship and character
are also necessary for membership
consideration.

 

 

Hoogenboom Solves The Parking Problem;

Hell Week Animostties Also Eliminated

By HUGO HOOGENBOOM

Disregarding hell week for a mo-
ment, our most urgent problem at
Washington and Lee is_ parking.
There are too many cars, and other
than trying to fill that bottomless
pit behind the library, no one seems
to be doing anything about it. Prob-
ably because the ones who can do
something all have reserved parking
places and are therefore compla-
cent.

The people who have reserved
parking places are: eminent members
of the administration, faculty mem-
bers (anonymously), and employees
of the Slater gang. If you think
these are strange bedfollows, you
are damn right.

While things may look grim for
the present, the University is not
without foresight. Included in the
Ten Year Plan is a spacious parking
lot just on the other side of the
intra-mural field. However, until
the happy day when those plans are
realized, we must make do as well
as we can with temporary measures.

One simple way out would be to
eliminate student cars entirely. Then
the faculty and other dignitaries
(janitors, members of the Slater
gang) would have ample room to

| park and could have go-cart races
in the space left over. Those students
who defied the rules would have to
park their cars in the Mayflower
garage, like cadets, and then the
Mayflower would become all garage,
from top to bottom.

Another solution would be to sell
parking stickers for say 50 dollars
yearly. In this way, faculty mem-
bers would walk to school (exercise
is good for older folks, anyway), and
the resulting space would relieve the
parking problem. With the added rev-
enue that would be realized the
school could put Washington and
Lee seals like the one on the commons
on all the buildings on campus. Per-
haps they would even have enough
left over to put a neon cross on Lee
Chapel.

Unfortunately, each of these plans,
while undeniably attractive, has its
drawbacks. The chief drawback is
common to both: the failure to get
at the root of the problem, which is
student cars and their relationship
to grades and the University as a
whole. If all student cars were abol-
ished, most students would have no
way to come to school in the fall,
and the consequent diminution of

 

revenue would probably force the

closing of the school and its even-
tual sale to Southern Seminary.

On the other hand, there is no
doubt that cars affect grades, and
that students with difficult courses
should be forbidden to possess cars.
It is when we realize this that the
solution to all our problems be-
comes suddenly evident. A great
majority of the student body will
agree that freshman courses are the
easiest, and the upper-class courses
are hard. Therefore, only freshman
should be permitted to have cars.
Upper-classmen can get rides from
freshmen to and from school at vaca-
tion-time, to go to Hollins, ete., and
yet won’t have the actual tempta-
tion of possessing a car.

And incidentally, this plan would
go a long way toward alleviating the
problem we disregarded initially:
hell week. With the upper-classmen
dependent on the freshmen for rides,
they could not afford to be too harsh
or cruel.

Thus, in one simple proposal, we
haxe wrapped up four of the most
pressing problems facing this Univer-
sity in the next decade: hell week,
grades, cars and parking. This pro-
posal should be adopted without de-
lay.

 

 

Raven Rants

 

By G, L, OUELLETTE

A week ago the International Re-
lations Club played host to a rather
controversial figure. Norman Thomas
received an unreserved acclaim from
his audience. At first the reception
struck us as particularly strange, if
one recalls how this University has its
roots sunk in certain traditions.

Our first reaction was to shout
a loud “Hoorah.” Finally, we thought,
the true spirit of liberal enquiry, the
cold analysis of facts and situations,
has arrived.

The initial response the audience
gave Thomas suddenly came to dis-
turb this writer. For the next few
days after the lecture by the Ameri-
can socialist, we repeatedly heard
how “wonderful” the speech was,
how “exciting” a character .Mr
Thomas seemed to be. Wasn‘t it
“amazing” for someone in his mid-
seventies to speak with such adroit-
ness, for one to be such a “clear
thinker.” We cannot but feel that the

Norman Thomas the man, than of
Norman Thomas the socialistic think-
er.
Why the devil had so many gone
to Lee Chapel on such a stormy night:
to see a 76-year-old man, who, much
to his credit, poses exceedingly well;
or to hear an explication of the so-
cialistic approach to the East-West
conflict?

Whatever the answer, the fact that
we had to search far and wide among
the people who attended for any-
one to give us a pro or con on the
content of the lecture dismays us.
When we asked, we were given short
resumes of the theatrics which Mr.
Thomas exhibited, and we received
very little opinion concerning what
he had said.

* * *

We find the socialistic approach to
the East-West conflict alarming in one
respect at least. (We too were
charmed by the presence of the great
man, but we did give the address
enough attention to become provoked
on one of the basic points presented
by Norman Thomas.)

Thomas’ general outline for a new
set of principles, a new religion to
replace that of the worn and de-
ficient nationalism which the coun-
tries of the world have bowed to for
more than a century, brings out four
directions towards which the powers

 

involved must subdue their respec-
tive diplomacies.

audience became more aware of |

These four paths lead to disarm-
ament, arms control, international
military disentanglements with a
strengthened U.N., and last but not
least, the dedication of more sincere
efforts towards the reduction of the
poverty existing in the under-de-
veloped parts of the world. These
four ideals were very effectively de-
scribed as compatible with democra-
cy in the better sense of the word.
For this undigested statement,
Thomas was called by a local paper
of more than minor interest, “An
American of the best Tradition.”

International military disentangle-
ments and a renewed attack on pov-
erty appeal to us, and have always
been part of our ideology, regard-
less of what Thomas had to say about
them on Tuesday night. Disarmament
and arms control are quite another
thing. It seems that again an intel-
lectual turned prophet wishes to de-
stroy one of the basic nursery rimes
of this century: “Praise the Lord,
and Pass the Ammunition.”

This is no light matter. The knowl-
edge and science learned during the
course of the Two Great Lessons are
made to appear vulgar and inhuman.
The essence of knowledge is never
evil. The use of genius through hu-
man practice may not prove satis-
factory; however, for one to use the
clarion call in order to place any
knowledge aside for reasons of its
obvious potency certainly cannot rest
well with intellectuals. This is not the
stuff of which true religion consists.

We despise wars, as much, if pos-
sible, as Mr. Thomas himself does.
We cannot, however, see that world
conflicts will be avoided through the
negative ideology of mutual disarm-
ament. The forbidden fruit of truth
and knowledge has been partaken.
The effects have been felt twice dur-
ing the same century. How can we
possibly ask that we suddenly re-
linquish the power—even if today it
is lacking for the purpose of self-
preservation—that power which
twice re-established some sort of
world order in the pattern which we
saw as best?

Wars are not necessities, even if
history, page after page, emphasizes
their reoccurrence. Indeed we agree
that the religion of Nationalism has
been proven deficient; but surely it
would be naive to suppose that the
spirit which nationalsim embodies
can be replaced by policies of disarm-
ament and arms control alone. Poli-

 

Thomas Won Personal Victory,
But Were His Proposals Valid?

cies are poor substitutes for any-
thing as strong as religion.

We don’t pretend to know how
to solve the dilemma. We do, how-
ever, believe that the socialistic
emphasis is completely in error.
Ironically, the appeal which many
have seen as humanitarian, the call
for mutual disarmament and arms
control, has resulted in an acceler-
ated arms accumulation program.
Need we mention the East-West
missile race?

As we see the situation, we can
only suggest a new and untried order
of things. Presupposing that both the
East and West present themselves at
conferences, discussions, and meet-
ings on the identical platforms of
of nationalism, and all that it implies,
it would seem intelligent and advan-
tageous for the West to seek out new
tools of argument other than disarm-
ament and arms control, tools or ar-
guments that could bring possible

 

i agreement between East and West
| thus lessening the emotional import-
‘ance of nationalism. Then and only
then could disagreement not be in-
evitable.

(Continued on page 4)

 

Tap Ritual Noted For Suspense

To rate committee discussion a stu-
dent must have a grade-point ratio
appreciably higher than the aver-
age of his own graduating class.

“Each person brought up for con-
sideration is discussed several times
during the year,” said Dr. Latture.

“The final decision is never made
until the day before tapping takes
place,” he explained.

This, of course, means that it is
virtually impossible for a student to
find out if he has or has not been
chosen for ODK until the actual
tapping takes place.

* * *

Professor Latture told a Ring-tum
Phi reporter a story which should be
of interest to all members of the
student body, and especially interest-
ing to the freshman class.

According to Latture, one of the
first constructive accomplishments of
ODK after its founding 47 years ago
was the abolition of freshman haz-
ing in the university.

“Upperclassmen used to be able to
take freshmen out at any time and
beat fire out of them,” said Prof.
Latture.

He also said that one example of
the hazing which he remembers con-
cerns a group of freshmen who were
forced by paddle-wielding upper-
classmen to run down the streets
shouting, “I’m a fresh, fresh fresh-
man.”

However, after one particularly
serious injury was inflicted on a
member of the freshman class, Dr.
Henry Louis Smith, President of the
University, asked ODK to study the
situation and submit proposals for
dealing with the matter.

ODK asked for an assimilation
committee which would be respon-
sible for assimilating freshmen into
the traditions of the campus without
the “help” of other upper-classmen.

Today, 47 years later, the assimila-
tion committee is still basically the
same and has basically the same pur-
pose, It stands as an example of the
good which a conscientious organiza-
tion can do for a school.

The Ring-tum Phi

Tuesday Edition

The Ring-tum Phi is published Tues-
day and Friday oo, e college year.
It is printed by the Journalism Labor-
otory Press, Washington and Lee Uni-
versity. The mailing address is Box
899, Lexington, Va,

Entered as second class matter Sep-
tember 20, 1946 at the Post Office, Lex-
ington Va., under the act of March

 

1878

National Advertising Representative:
The National Advertisers Service, Inc.,
420 Madison Ave., New York, N.Y.

iii. ccstrnsis Rosewell Page, III

Business Managet............. Huntley Biggs
Editorial Board

Managing Editor.............000 Bill Roberts

Photography Editor................. Bill Young

Assistant Managing Editor...........ss00

..Steve Galef
News Editor.. Bob Bridewell
Sports Editor.

Steve Guild
Associate Kditors........ Lanny Butler, Bill

Smith, Ronnie King
Advertising Managerv.......... Jerome Dattel
Circulation Manager........ Peter Agelesto

 

 

 

 

 

rv

HICKMAN’S ESSO

South Main Street
HO 3-2024

a iat

 

MYERS
HARDWARE
COMPANY

 

College Outlines
Hymarx Outlines
Made Simple Series

i i i i i i i i i i i i i cn cn

 

ST TT eee

WANT TO CUT SHORT THE STUDY???

try our

The Book Shop

W. Washington Street

in i i cn i hn li Ar cantata hla tl,

POSS II IT OT OT OOO OOOO

till

Barrons Series
Data Guides
Vocabulary Cards

 

Ee a ene non ema TO

ni i i i i i i hn hn ln ts te te te i

 

Finest

SUNDAY

 

Ted’s Steak House

Choice Meats
Ww

Route 60 Buena Vista

Foods

DINNERS

 

 

 
 

RING-TUM PHI

Page 3

 

Cagers Finally

Win On Road;
Beat Lynchburg

W&L cagers snapped their losing
streak on the road at 15, beating
Lynchburg College’s Hornets 68-65
Saturday night in Lynchburg. The
Generals, down 34-33 at the half,
stormed back after the intermission
to finally take the lead and hold
off repeated Lynchburg assaults.

Rodger Fauber, Brett Thackston,
and Steve Rutledge led the Gen-
erals in ending the losing streak.
Fauber and Thackston had 13
points apiece, while Rutledge add-
ed 12. In addition Fauber had 15
rebounds and Rutledge, for the
second game in a row, pulled down
12, both players consistently out-
jumping Lynchburg’s two big men
to clear the boards. Overall, the
Generals pulled down 53 rebounds
to Lynchburg’s 44.

Although the Hornets had four
men score in double figures, led by
Jeff Aultice with 17 points, their re-
maining two scorers had a total of
eight points between them. The Gen-
erals had a total of eight men in
the scoring column, none of whom
had less than four points. This
better-rounded attack helped the
Generals, who shot 35.7 per cent
from the floor, and added 18 points
in 26 attempts at the free throw line.

The Generals played the second
half without the services of start-
ing guard Ken “Killer” Kowalski,
who was put out of action midway
in the first period with an injury.

In a preliminary contest, the W&L
freshman team defeated the Lynch-
burg junior varsity 84-57, to bring
their season’s record to 9-3. Howard
Martin and Fred Ridolphi paced the
Brigadier attack with 21 and 19 points
respectively.

 

SPORTS SCHEDULE

Basketball
Friday—Catholic, Here
Tuesday—Emory & Henry, Here

Frosh Basketball
Today—S.M.A., Here
Monday—Ferrum, There

Track
Friday—Frosh Invit., Here
Saturday—State Meet, Here

EEEEEEEEEE EEE EE EEE EE ES

: IDEAL

BARBER SHOP
QUICK SERVICE

 

Me rhe rhe oe forte

3

:
z
Fe oft of nfo fe fe oe ofe ole nfo fe nfo fe ode oe ofe fe fe fe ole ole fe

 

 

TETLOW
TV Service

221 S. Main HO 3.2841

 

 

 

 

ahs he he ihe the he Be he Be a le Be he Be le Be
ee Se eee ee eee

Baker
Ford Sales

&

BETTER DEALS

CLEARANCE
of lot for 1961 Models

 

NEW AND
USED CARS

Highway 60 East

gS Mn Sie Sn sen an ate Me, ata ate se. Me Me atc oe sa elle, sea le Ml Mle, Bla, Bla, Me Mia She, Ste, ste, St sia, Me ae alte Me
RR ee ee a a ae ae ae ae ee a ee a ee ee a ee a” a” ME ET BT ES MY ES ET
Sie Me sa se ute alte Me sta ite ste Me ste de de ite ite ite tte de te tte tte sta tte the ade ta tte te tate ete
ge MET MET Ee OEE GS gt MET OES AGS Gt MGS ME MG PEt PGT Mat Mae MGS MEY MES PT PET PGS MEY EE GS MET PEP ES Pa NE PT ET

 

 

 

THE NEW

White Top

Restaurant
+

A personal invitation
to the
Students

Try our delicious foods
Route 60 East

 

Ph bh heh bbb hbo hey

 

Capt. Sandy Mersereau grapples with opponent during Saturday’s N. C.

State meet.

WEL Grapplers
Take On W.Va.

The Washington and Lee matmen,
boasting a 7-1 record by virtue of
their 28-7 victory over North Caro-
lina State last Saturday, will meet
a subsidized West Virginia team
away tonight in what should prove to
be their toughest match of the season.
The Generals, however, will be with-
out the services of Herb Smith, the
165 lb. freshman, who broke his leg
in a skiing accident last weekend.

The Generals virtually annihi-
lated N. C. State via three pins, two
decisions, a draw, and a forfeit.
Hoke Robinson picked up five easy
points in the 123 lb. class as the
North Carolina team failed to pro-
vide him with an opponent. Dave
Montgomery then followed with a
pin, and Ken Greer fought Bill St.
Clair to a 1-1 draw.

Decisions by Ed Jenson and Herb
Smith and pins by Capt. Sandy Mer-
seraeu and Jud Babcock completed

Radio Hospital

*
Radio, TV, Phonograph
Sales and Service

*

HO 3-3531

 

 

 

 

 

 

Tee oLe ode oho ode rte nfo ote ode ode ole oe ode oe ole ode oe oho ote sere rte

* White’s Music
Store

(Opposite State Theater)

ik

%

Expert Repair Service
ik
5 W. Nelson St. Lexington, Va.

HO 3-3522

 

 

—Photo by Young

Top N.C. State;
At Morgantown

W&L’s scoring at 28 points, the sec-
ond highest total of the year.

The West Virginia team, runner-
up to Virginia Tech in the Southern
Conference last year, has shown
considerable strength in the lower
weight and heavywegiht division
thus far this season. However, Coach
Miller feels that the Generals have
an outside chance of winning if they
can hold their own in the lower
weights and can pick up a couple of
pins in the middle weight classes.
Last year the Mountaineers stomped
W&L 27-3, with Mersereau scoring
the only General win.

 

 

Green Valley Motel

One Mile North on
U. S. Highway No. 11

 

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA
HO 3-2195

 

 

The Coaches Corner

McHenry Says

Team ‘Great’

I had the greatest shower of my
life on Monday night—fully clothed
and escorted by the great Little Gen-
erals after they had upset those
“Damn” Wahoos, 78-68. It looked
like the old saying that “a team that
won't be beat, can’t be beat” surely
came true. I have never seen a bunch
of boys put forth a greater team ef-

 

fort in my life. It was quite a vic-

tory.
Saturday we broke our 15-game
losing streak on the road with a not-

'| so-impressive 68-65 win. Few of the

faithful who followed us over figured

_| we could hold a candle to the Wa-!
_, hoos who have been playing the ACC
'| powerhouses. However, the boys be-

lieved in themselves and in our new
defense that we devised against the
larger and stronger team.

It was by far our greatest effort
of the season, and there were many
keys to the final outcome. Brett
Thackston, our tremendous ball
handler, high scorer, and quarter-
back, played his best game of the
year and got us 27 points. Bip Fau-
ber, our inspirational captain, and
Bill Ide, our most improved player,
both played their best games. All of
the boys played as if their lives de-
pended on the outcome.

See you at Catholic University
game on Friday. It is our last home
game this year.

 

SPENCER

General Tire
536 E. Nelson Street

Best in Tires
GENERAL

Best in Recapping
Kraft Tread

New and Used Tires
FOR COMPACT CARS

 

 

 

The Southern Inn

Cordially invites you to make this your headquarters for good food
Here you get the best food for the most reasonable prices

Our Specialties:

Steaks, Chicken, Country Ham, and the best sandwiches
in town

Meet your friends here

 

 

 

 

Tee ee eT TTT eee eee rrrrre es ee

 

4
%
4
|
4
%
4)
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
q
Phonographs—Hi-Fi -
gtap ;
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4

Pete tebbibbiebbetdettebbob

 
 
   
   
  

 

Open a convenient student Checking account
TODAY

at

Rockbridge National Bank

Member Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation

 

 

 

The Appeal of

BATIK

Batik Print sport shirts by Arrow capture
the look of the hand-worked prints of Java.
These rich muted tones provide your
wardrobe with a new expression of color.
Styled in the authentic button-down collar.

Long sleeves $5.00
Short sleeves $4.00

=ARROW~

rom the

“Cum Laude Collection”

 

W&L Sinks Georgetown;
Loses To AU; Record 4-3

By ED DICKSON

The Washington and Lee tank-
men returned from their Washington,
D.C. road trip this week with a
1-1 record to show for their endea-
vor. Their win came against George-
town University on Monday, while
the loss resulted from an encounter
with American University.

The Georgetown meet proved to
be fairly much of a run-away affair
as Coach Eastman and his team
coasted to a 64-31 victory. In Tues-
day’s meet with the Eagles from
American, the situation was slightly
different, and the Blue and White
suffered a 50-54 defeat.

In the Georgetown meet, Charlie
Stevenson started the Generals
off on the right track as he turned
in a winning time of 2:30.1 for the
220-yd. freestyle event.

The Generals captured a total of
five more first places in this meet,
with Jim Parker, Charlie Gummey,
Mike Harris, Elliott Maynard, ,and
Henry Gonsoulin receiving the cred-
its.

Sophomore Mike Harris was prais-
ed by Coach Eastman for his fine
performance as he placed first in

 

the 200-yd. backstroke with a win-
ning time of 2:40.7, while praise was
also in order for Parker’s first in the
50-yd. event and Gummey’s blue
ribbon points in the 100-yd. free-
style event.

In Tuesday’s encounter, an out-
standing performance by Elliott
Maynard marked the Generals’ in-
dividual display. He swam the win-
ning heat for the 440-yd. medley
relay team, placed first in the 200-yd.
butterfly event with a time of 2:37.7,
and finished off the afternoon by de-
feating the Eagle’s Bill Compton in
the 200-yd. breast stroke with a
winning time of 2:30.5.

Co-Captain Jim Parker captured
the only other first for the Generals
in this meet as he edeged out a
victory in the 50-yd. freestyle event
with a time of 24.2 seconds. Maury
Purnell placed third in this event.

At this point in the season, the
Generals now have a 4-3 record
with three meets remaining on their
schedule. Their next encounter is
with Wake Forest in Winston-Salem,
North Carolina on Friday, February
17, followed by a meet with East
Carolina College in Greenville, N. C.,
on Saturday.

 

 

       

On Campus sei.

(Author of “I Was a Teen-age Dwarf”, “The Many
Loves of Dobie Gillis’’, etc.)

   

“THE SLOW RUSH”

we think you'll think we deliver it
from our new unfiltered king-size Ph ilip Morris Commander,

 

Illustrated below is the membership pin of a brand-new national
fraternity called Signa Phi Nothing. To join Signa Phi Nothing
and get this hideous membership pin absolutely free, simply
take a pair of scissors and cut out the illustration and paste it
to your dickey
Let me hasten to state that I do not recommend your joining
Signa Phi Nothing. The only thing I recommend in this column
is Marlboro cigarettes, as any honest man would who likes a
filtered cigarette with an unfiltered taste, who yearns to settle
back and enjoy a full-flavored smoke, whose heart is quickened
by a choice of soft pack or flip-top box and who gets paid every
week for writing this column.
_It is difficult to think of any reason why you should join
Signa Phi Nothing. Some people, of course, are joiners by
nature; if you are one such I must tell you there are any number

of better organizations than Signa Phi Nothing for you to join—
the Mafia, for example.

But if you should join Signa Phi Nothing, let me give you
several warnings. First off, it is the only fraternity that admits
girls. Second, there is no pledge period; each new member im-
mediately goes active. Perhaps “inactive” is a more accurate
term; there are no meetings, no drives, no campaigns, no sports,
no games, no dues, no grip, and no house.

The only thing Signa Phi Nothing has that other fraternities
have is a fraternity hymn. In fact, two hymns were submitted

 

to a recent meeting of the national board of directors (none of
whom attended). The first hymn goes:

Hotcha, boop-boop-a-doop,
Mother’s making blubber seup.

The second hymn is considerably longer:
A Guernsey's a cow,
A road is a lane,
When you're eating chow,
Remember the mein!

— , ;

Pending the next meeting of the national board of directors,
which will never be held, members are authorized to sing either
hymn. Or, for that matter, Stardust.

Perhaps you are asking why there should be such a fraternity
as Signa Phi Nothing. I will give you an answer—an answer
with which you cannot possibly disagree: Signa Phi Nothing
Jills a well-needed gap.

Are you suffering from mental health? Is logie distorting
your thinking? Is ambition encroaching on your native sloth?

Are your long-cherished misapprehensions retreating before a

sea of facts? In short, has edueation caught up with you?

If so, congratulations. But tell the truth wouldn’t you like
to make an oceasional visit back to the good old days when vou
Were not so wise and composed and industrious—when you
were, In fact, nuttier than a fruiteake?

If you pine for those old familiar miasms, those dear, dead
vapors, Join Signa Phi Nothing and renew, for a fleeting
moment, your acquaintance with futility. We promise nothing,
and, by George, we deliver it! © 1961 Max SI

Mw a shulmnaAD

* * *

We, the makers of Marlboro, promise smoking pleasure and

both from Marlloro and

Welcome aboard!
 

 

Page 4

 

Raven Rants
(Continued from page 2)

Perhaps a program of aid to under-
developed countries, without imper-
ialism, at summit level— a world
pool of knowledge and money to
make the world a better place to live
in, not to mention a safer one—is the
answer.

 

ODK Taps
(Continued from page 1)

mitory Counselor; Track; Dean’s
List; Who’s Who in American Col-
leges and Universities.

JAMES ALLEN VANN, Ill, Phi Psi
Senior from Birmingham, Ala. Vice
President of his fraternity, President
Dance Board; Executive Committee
Representative for Senior Class;
President Concert Guild; Dean’s List;
Honor Roll; Who’s Who in American
Colleges and Universities.

HUGH VERNON WHITE, JR., Senior
Law Student from Holland, Va. Re-
ceived his B.S. from VMI in 1954.
Served as Editor-in-Chief of the
W&L Law Review; President of Phi
Alpha Delta; Chairman of the Moot
Court Team Committee; Board of
Governors.

 

STATE

LEXINGTON, VA.

 

 

WED.-THURS.

 

 

STARTS FRIDAY
Admission 90c

   

sia Mela
CHEVALIER,

 

 

 

BROWN’S
CLEANING
WORKS

We call for
and deliver
HO 3-2013 14 Randolph St.

Webster Speaks
On ‘Protest’

(Continued from page 2)

and highly subjective. Student re-
actions have been varied.

“I had sort of hoped for a nega-
tive reaction of a violent nature,”
commented Gray.

This spring, Gray and his few
associates hope to bring out a literary
magazine for student essays, poetry,
and fiction.

Gray is essentially a practical per-
son. When he needs money to re-
turn to school, he works, although he
dislikes work. When he needs high
grades to go to graduate school, he
studies the right books and gives
the right answers on quizzes, al-
though he may be chafing at his con-
finement. When he wants to stir up a
complacent student body, he delib-
erately attempts to insult the sen-
sibilities of the students.

After he finishes his schooling, he
hopes to be either a writer or a
teacher. “Those are about the only
two jobs where you can really keep
your freedom.”

make

 

 

FRI-SAT.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

VARNER AND POLE

Phone HObart 3-3146

 

 

 

 

 

 

Traditional
W&L BLAZER
With University Crest
and Buttons

The
COLLEGE TOWN

Shop

Student Charge Accounts
Welcomed

 

 

 

Lexington
Laundro Matic

209 S. Main

*

HAND IRONED
SHIRTS

Dry Cleaning
Service

for your convenience

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ROCKBRIDGE LAUNDRY

and
Dry Cleaners

Shirts Transparently Wrapped

for Freshness

AGENTS:

Fraternities, Dorms and Co-op

*

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  

STUDENTS ACCOUNTS INVITED HERE
Member F. D. 1. C.

 

DIXON’S

ESSO SERVICE CENTER
ROUTE 60 EAST IN LEXINGTON

Across from the White Top Resturant
HO 3-4214

Wash, Grease, Lube, Road Service

Charge Accounts Welcome

Oa
beer oe fee oe ofe fee oe rfe oe oe oe oho ae oho ofe ae fee afeofeofe oe afoot ae oe ne ale oes ae feof fe age

Shirt Service as You Like it

 

Quality Cleaning and Pressing

UNIVERSITY CLEANERS
HO 3-3622

*
“Your Campus Neighbors”

bh etoh

 

erbeobe ode sede ode she ode ole shee fee rfe afe ode forte age

ETAREYTON RING
MARKS THE REAL THING!

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

SEALTEST

Dairy Products
“To get the best get Sealtest’’

over twenty different products in addition to
delicious Sealtest ice cream

Block and Crushed Ice

Your favorite mixes—Ice Cold

*
Maple-Rock Distributors, Inc.

Phone HO 3-2168

© | eokerteofoode tere rte sorte oforteoge oe ofeoteseoferteofeofeokeoteoteofeoke defo afeote oho oferfeoteofeoforfeoteoteobeoeoleofeoboofeofe fete]

Seeooososeseeesooooosess posconcenececonsrooseseenooosorssress esos ne
It’s Good usiness * ROBERT E. LEE |e FOR ROOM RESERVATIONS—CALL HO 3-2151 °
To Do [ip usiness : siaaenen z/8 LEXINGTON MOTEL :
5 * David M. Moore * “ Large Rooms—U. S. 11 By-Pass South :
% . Free TV—Phones—Continental Breakfast
PHARMACY = seca t : Only Motel in corporate limits of Lexington :
Seeiebeeehiobbbteobee | CC COCO OOCOOOOSOOOOOOSOEESO OOOH SEHSSOOOOSOOOLESEE
POP OOOO P OTT TOS ON SON T ees (p ~
LEXINGTON “ia...” &
casei maswenm “$i + THE COLLEGE INN
% :
Phone HO 3-3813 108 S. Jefferson TELEPHONE CO. ¢ The Best Food in Town
me
shee ofosteoferteofedoobogedeooteseotetecdodede American and Italian
so cccccccccoccooooccccce c eal e
e atering to the Students, Faculty,
*Dodge and Dodge Dart’ For those extra pieces oa Towns People 7
: and Lancer : . OPEN SUNDAYS
: America’s First Fine ° FURNITURE = J
+
3 ECONOMY CAR 3 oe
° * ° see our stoc Merle ofeofeoge fe ofeofeofe oe ofeofeoteoteafeofeofeofeofeofeofeafeofeofe ste feat feats fooFooesfesfeote sted
° : before buying We F
$ Rockbridge Motor Co. ¢ & e Heature
e INC. a
« e
= s
® s
2 *

CO
ee ee ee ee ee ee eee ee ee ee eee ee

 

 

 

 

The First National Bank

of Lexington
*
has special checking accounts

for students

 

Here’s one filter cigarette that’s really different!

The difference is this: Tareyton’s Dual Filter gives you a
unique inner filter of ACTIVATED CHARCOAL, definitely proved to |
make the taste of a cigarette mild and smooth. It works together with
a pure white outer filter—to balance the flavor elements in the smoke.

Tareyton delivers—and you enjoy—the best taste of the best tobaccos.

Tareyton delivers the flavor...

 
 

Pure white outer filter

peat FTER LATCVOON ee

 

 

 

 
 

 

TUESDAY
Edition

Che Ring-tum Phi

Washington and Lee Semi-Weekly Newspaper

TUESDAY
Edition

 

Volume LXI

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA, FEBRUARY 21, 1961

Number 36

 

Senator Goldwater To Speak March Ist

 

Competition For Mahan Awards
Opened By English Department

The English department has an-
nounced the 1961 competition for
the Mahan awards in creative writ-
ing. The awards were established
under the will of George A. Mahan,
a Washington and Lee alumnus, who
died in 1936.

There are four prose awards; two
for freshmen and one each for soph-
omores and juniors. There is one
verse award open to members of the
freshman, sophomore, or junior class-
es. The awards offer the recipient $60
in cash or a $100 remission in fees for
the coming year.

The prose entries may be either
literary criticism, plays of one act
or longer, short stories, or informal
essays. Purely factual prose is un-
acceptable. Each prose entry must
consist of at least 1500 words. How-
ever, several short selections total-
ing 1500 words are acceptable.

The verse selection must total at
least 30 lines and may include more
than one piece.

The deadline for entries in the
competition is technically March 25,
the day before spring vacation be-
gins. But Dr. Fitzgerald Flournoy,
professor of English, said that entries
would be accepted by any member
of the department of English on the
first day of classes following the
vacation, thus permitting students to
work on entries during that period.

Each entry will be judged by the
entire English department. No stu-
dent may submit more than two prose
entries and one verse entry.

 

Phi Beta Kappa
Plans Initiation

By TOM LYBASS

The Virginia Gamma Chapter of
Phi Beta Kappa celebrates its fif-
tieth anniversary April 12. Dr. How-
ard Lowry, noted scholar and presi-
dent of the College of Wooster in
Wooster, Ohio, will deliver the prin-
cipal address in Lee Chapel in com-
memoration of the founding of the
W&L Phi Beta Kappa Chapter in
1911.

During the exercise, newly elected
members to Phi Beta Kappa also will
be honored. Following Dr. Lowry’s
address, the new members will be
initiated in the Student Union Build-
ing in a private ceremony. A cele-
bration dinner will be held in the
Evans Dining Hall. In addition to
the present members of the Virginia
Gamma Chapter, there will be some
thirty or forty alumni of the chapter
participating in the ceremony.

Dr. Lowry has had a long and
distinguished career as a scholar and
educator. After receiving his Ph.D.
from Yale University in 1931, he
taught English literature at Wooster
and Princeton University until he
became president of Wooster.

As a scholar, Dr. Howard Lowry’s
special interest is Matthew Arnold,

 

Victorian poet and critic of litera~ | i

ture, politics, and religion. In 1932
Lowry’s editing of the letters of |
Arnold and Arthur Hugh Clough, |
another Victorian poet, stimulated a |
revival of interest in the life of
Arnold.

Since that time, Dr. Lowry has
published an edition of Arnold’s|
notebooks, a commentary on Ar-
nold’s poems, and a collection of
poems of Clough. Dr. Sidney Coul-
ling of the W&L English depart-
ment, who teaches a course in Vic-
torian Literature, praised Lowry for
his pioneer work in the study of
Arnold. Dr. Coulling, in evaluating
Dr. Lowry’s achievement, said, “Few
scholars have done so much for Vic-
torian letters.”

Beta Gamma Sigma Elects
4 Students To Membership

Beta Gamma Sigma on Feb. 17,
1961, elected to membership Court-
ney R. Mauzy Jr., a senior from
Charlotte, N. C.; Stephen H. Paley,
a senior from Washington, D. C.; Jer-
ry S. Wilbourn, senior from Little
Rock, Ark.; and Steve W. Rutledge,
junior from Seattle, Wash.

Beta Gamma Sigma is an honor
society for students in schools ac-
credited by the American Association

(Continued on page 4)

 

Each entrant must choose a pen-
name to identify his entry. All en-
tries must be typewritten and pledg-
ed as usual, Students desiring fur-
ther information on the competition ;
should consult with any member of
the English department.

“This is a fine chance for anyone
with ambition in the field of creative
writing to win a little money, and
get a little fame. And it’s good prac-
tice, of course,” said Dr. Flournoy.

Last year’s winners of the Mahan
awards in prose were sophomore
Steve Henry, juniors Scott Iacone
and Mac McClung, and senior Mal
Brownlee. The poetry award went
to sophomore Chester P. White, Jr.

|
|
|

 

Notice

A vacancy has occurred on the
Assimilation Committee. All per-
sons desiring to serve this commit-
tee should send a formal applica-
tion to Bill McWilliams, Secretary
of the Student Body, Phi Delta
Theta, by Feb. 27, 1961.

 

Senator Barry Goldwater

 

 

New Regulations Passed

Summer School Is Discouraged

In an effort to decrease the amount
of summer school work taken at
other institutions to make up aca-
demic deficiencies at Washington and
Lee, the faculty has passed new
regulations which will apply in the
future beginning with the present
freshman class, Dean William W.
Pusey III announced today. The rules
for current sophomores and juniors
remain unchanged, as outlined in
the 1960 Catalogue (pages 57-58, 147).

As in the past, approval will only
be given for summer work done at
an institution of the same general
academic standards as Washington

 

and Lee. A list of institutions ap-
proved for summer school work is
available from department heads,
Dean Pusey, or Dean Adams.

The new regulations are as fol-
lows:

No more than 12 semester hours
of summer school work may be
offered. This total of 12 may be
comprised of any combination of
the following: (a) Free electives,
3-12 hours; (b) Not more than two
required semester courses (for the
first time), which may not be in
the major subject, in the School of

 

Shenandoah To Feature 17 Poets

Works by 17 young American poetsthe poetry of Witter Bynner, one

will be featured in the forthcoming
Winter issue of Shenandoah, Wash-
ington and Lee’s literary review.

Among poets whose works will ap-
pear in the quarterly volume are
John Pym, Joan LaBombard, Tracy
Thompson, Emilie Glen and Charles
E. Eaton.

Critiques by two Washington and |
Lee English instructors will set the |
tone for the predominantly poetic |
volume. Douglas Day will examine |

 

of several young poets who were
contemporaries of D. H. Lawrence,
and James Boatright will review
Donald Allen’s anthology entitled
“New American Poetry: 1945-60.”
Two modern short stories will
round out the volume. “Off Duty”
by a Washington and Jefferson Eng-
lish professor, Edwin Moseley, and
“Has Aanyone Seen This Horseman”
by David Bunch of St. Louis will be
(Continued on page 4)

 

i

te

Jim Vann and Kent Frazier present Sam Rayder with a cigarette box in|

    

appreciation for services rendered to the student body.

 

Commerce and Administration, the
major group; (c) The repetition of
any two semester courses for the
purpose of either raising an F or
of raising a passing grade. If a
course is repeated in summer
school for the purpose of raising
an F or of raising a passing grade,
the old as well as the new grade
will be used in calculating the stu-
dent’s grade-point ratio.

All students must secure approval
of the institution to be attended and
of courses to be taken in person be-
fore leaving the campus. Approval
of the institution is secured from
Dean Pusey or Dean Adams as ap-
propriate. Approval of courses in
Accounting, Commerce, Economics,
and Political Science is secured from
Dean Adams. Approval of other
courses is secured from heads of de-
partments offering the correspond-
ing work at Washington and Lee. It
is the responsibility of the student
to see that the transfer credit is
sent to the Registrar.

 

Exceptions to the regulations can
be made only by the Committee on|
Courses and Degrees. Dean Pusey }
pointed out that these would only:
be made in case of students who}
could demonstrate that they wish to
take additional work in order to ac-
celerate their college studies.

 

——-

Arizona Conservative Io Discuss

Federal Aid In

Education

By Richard Cruse

Senator Barry M. Goldwater, Republican of Arizona, will
deliver a public address on Wednesday evening March 1 in
Lee Chapel. Scheduled for 7:30 p.m., his speech is expected
to dwell on the question of federal aid to education, touching
on a three point program which he introduced in the Senate

‘Kaleidoscope’ To Alternate
With New Radio Program
Featuring Troub Drama

The Washington and Lee Trouba-
dours will present the first in a new
series of radio dramas on Radio
Washington and Lee on Thursday
evening, March 2. The first play of
the series will be “They Knew What
They Wanted” by Sidney Howard.
The play won a Pulitzer Prize in 1936
and has more recently been adapted
into the musical “Most Happy Fella.”

The program series is titled Retro-
spect and will be presented as a part
of the Kaleidoscope program on a
bi-weekly basis beginning on the
23rd. The first program will be a full
fifty-five minute performance begin-
ning at 8:05 on WREL. Subsequent
programs in the series will be heard
at 8:30, following a shortened Kaleid-
oscope broadcast.

The producer of Kaleidoscope and
Retrospect programs is Bob Holley,
and the first director of the Retro-
spect series will be Mervin Clay.

Future Retrospect broadcast will
present some of the greatest radio
dramas and plays of the past. The
Troubadours will be featured in pro-
duction, direction and acting roles of
the series.

The series of Radio Washington
and Lee programs is presented each
night, Monday through Friday, at
8:05 p.m. on WREL. It presents pro-
grams of classical, popular and jazz
music in addition to the Kaleidoscope
programs on Thursdays. Harvey Al-
len is Executive Director of the
series.

Glee Club Plans
Busy ’61 Season

The Longwood College Choir and
a 19-piece orchestra will perform
with the Washington and Lee Glee

 

: Club on March 19 in a presentation

of Faure’s “Requiem” at the Lex-
ington Presbyterian Church.
Selections from “The Messiah” will
also be done at this special spring
concert. Mr. Robert Stewart will con-
duct the combined groups in “Re-

| quiem” with Dr. John Molnar of

Longwood conducting the selections

Troub Play Is Psychological | from Handel.

Tragedy Of 11th Century |

!

The drama of Luigi Pirandello is
concerned with the separate realities |
of individuals, with the private in-
ner worlds men know as themselves. :
In each of these worlds, one man'
consciously or unconsciously stores’

his hopes and his feelings. The world,

in turn, defines for that man his own |
personality, with its own set of rules. !

Out of this theme Pirandello built |
a dramatic literature persistently
ironic. “Henry IV,” a tragedy, con-
cerns the moment when a man breaks
from his conscious retreat into the |
splendor of eleventh century history |
which has become, over a period of
years, real for him.

The visit to this castle of Henry’s
original love and her lover both of
whom Henry has not seen since his
madness began, provides the dramatic
impetus upon which the play builds
to its frenzied climax. Matilda, once
beguiling, now appears at the court
an elderly woman pursuing in vain
the “fading image of her youth.”
Belcredi, her lover, hides himself
behind a cynical mask, hurting
everyone he fears might touch him
in a vulnerable spot.

Built around the reincarnated
eleventh century, colorful, intriguing,
and of course ironic, “Henry IV” is
a play which discusses a major prob-
lem on the contemporary scene—the
individual’s drive to deal honestly
with himself and retain at the same
time his ability to communicate with
his fellows.

 

W&L’s musical highlight of the
spring season, the annual Spring
Concert, will be given by the Glee
Club with the Westhampton College
Glee Club on April 26, and will fea-
ture Brahms’ “Liebeslider Waltzes.”
Both groups will also present the
outstanding numbers from their own
repertoires.

During three recording sessions
this spring, the Glee Club will cut
a record to be released next fall. It
will feature Handel’s “Hallelujah
Chorus” and selected Christmas car-
ols, plus Randall Thompson’s “Ta-
rantella” and other selections from
the Glee Club’s 1961 repertoire.

Professor E. F. Turner and Mark
Gee are the recording engineers for

| this undertaking. Mr. Stewart said

that he feels this year’s club is the
first one he has directed which has
the balance and quality to make a
recording.

Featured with the Glee Club in its
concerts will be a small, specialized
group, the “Capperales,” who will
sing their own arrangements of sev-
eral well-known popular hits.

On May 2 the entire club will be-
gin a two-day tour to Richmond,
where they will repeat their spring
concert at the University of Rich-
mond plus several other perform-
ances in Richmond schools.

They will then go north for a day
of concerts in Wilmington, Del., cul-
minated by a special informal con- |
cert sponsored by W&L alumni in|}
Wilmington.

This will mark the most

(Continued on page 4)

active |

 

yesterday afternoon as a substitute for President Kennedy’s
®education bill.

His appearance on campus is un-
der the sponsorship of the Wash-
ington and Lee chapter of Pi Sigma
Alpha, national honorary political
science fraternity.

One of the most articulate con-
servative spokesman of our time,
Senator Goldwater has read widely
in the field of political theory from
Aristotle and Cicero to Jefferson,
Lincoln, Wilson, and Theodore
Roosevelt. His philosophy of govern-
ment as revealed in his best selling
book, The Conscience of a Conser-
vative, is substantially as that ex-
pressed by President Jefferson in
his first inaugural:

A wise and frugal government,
which shall restrain men from in-
juring one another, shall leave
them otherwise free to regulate
their own pursuits of industry and
improvement, and shall not take
from the mouth of labor the bread
it has earned: this is the sum of
good government, and this is
necessary to close the circle of our
felicities.

Born in Phoenix in 1909, and edu-
cated at Staunton Military Academy
and the University of Arizona, the
Senator began his political career
some forty years later when he was
elected to the first of two terms in
the Phoenix city council on a re-
form ticket. He led his seven-man
slate on balloting each time.

In 1950, he served as campaign
manager for Republican Howard
Pyle’s successful bid for the gover-
norship of Arizona. In 1952, he ran
against and defeated the Democratic
majority leader of the United States
Senate, Ernest McFarland.

Only once previously in its history
had Arizona elected a Republican to
the Senate. In 1958, when the Dem-
ocrats unseated 13 Republican sena-
tors, all defenders of the Eisenhower
administration’s record, Senator
Goldwater attacking major adminis-
tration policies, defeated Arizona’s
most popular Democrat, the then
Governor Ernest McFarland.

In the Senate, Goldwater is a mem-
ber of the following committees:
Public Labor and Welfare, Interior
and Insular Affairs, and the Select
Committee on Improper Activities in
the Labor or Management Field.
From January 1955 until February
1956 he was chairman of the Repub-
lican Senatorial Campaign Commit-
tee. He was re-elected to this post in
1959 and again in 1961.

Senator Goldwater is active in a
variety of activities of non-political
nature. He is a brigadier general in
the U.S. Air Force Reserve, an ex-
pert on Indian matters, an associate
of the Royal Photographic Society of
London, and a devotee of Dixieland
music. He has explored every sec-
tion of the Grand Canyon, once dis-
covering an unknown natural bridge.

 

Fishwick Is Lenten S peaker
In Baltimore Church Series

Dr. Marshall W. Fishwick, profes-
sor of American studies at Washing-
ton and Lee University, will be the
first to appear in the special Episco-
pal Lenten series of speakers at the
Church of the Redeemer in Balti-
more.

He will speak Feb. 21 on “Christi-
anity and Contemporary Culture.”
Other speakers will include U. S.
Sen. A. S. (Mike) Monroney of Okla-
homa, Dr. Kermit Eby, professor of
social sciences at the University of
Chicago, James Oates, Jr., president
of the Equitable Life Assurance Co.,
and James Rouse, president of the
American Committee to Improve our
Neighbors.

A member of the R. E. Lee Mem-
orial Episcopal Church vestry here,
Dr. Fishwick has served as historio-
grapher of the Diocese of Southwest
Virginia and as the local church’s

| choir director for nine years. He has

been on the Washington and Lee

facutly since 1949.
Page 2

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

Che Ring-tum Phi

Tuesday

Edition

 

The Other Side

Mr. Morison’s speech to the ODK Assembly Thursday
will stand as one of the most memorable we’ve heard since we’ve
been here. Too many speakers to such a large assembly content
themselves with uttering stale platitudes or clothing their argu-
ment in such an ambiguous vocabulary that one is hard-pressed
to decide just what they were saying, or whether they really be-

live in it.

Mr. Morison is passionately opposed to the conserva-
tive—or “conformist,” as he called it—way in which Virginia
has been governed. We must agree that the doctrinaire conser-
vatism of many of our Southern leaders is inadequate to cope
with problems presented by the fast-changing economic and
social makeup of America in the 20th Century.

It is useful to say generally that conservatives are people who
think that government is inherently bad, or at best neutral in
effect, and should therefore be held to a minimum. By the same
token, liberals are people who think that government can, and

should be, a positive force.

Virginia and some other Southern states are just about the
last stronghold of the people who believe in minimal govern-
ment. They are finding that many powers, in education, par-
ticularly, that are best exercised at the state or local level, are
being taken up by a federal government committed to a positive
role. This is being done against a background of election returns
which leave one in the dark as to what the people of the South

really want.

We will never know what the people of the South want until
a liberal party, in addition to the so-called moderates (who are
apparently just that, neither here nor there), arises to offer
Virginia and the South a choice. It is the fault of the Byrd or-
ganization in part that the liberals cannot be heard in Virginia.
That is Mr. Morison’s “conformity.” But it is also the fault of
the liberals. If there are so many people in Virginia who oppose
the principles of her government, why haven’t they stood up
and sounded off? That was Mr. Morison’s challenge.

We will be forced to oppose these liberals when and if they
stand up if they profess anything like the militant liberalism
prevalent among our more “progressive” northern neighbors.
For we believe their emphasis on economic, and thus politically
attractive, panaceas, is a betrayal of the true principles of Amer-

ican liberalism.

We are, and will remain, strong supporters of the present
political powers in Virginia. We feel that the Byrd organiza-
tion has given the people of Virginia what they have wanted

and what they have expected from their state government.

It is evident that the majority of voters in Virginia have been
satisfied with their government. Even Mr. Morison in his scath-
ing attack on the “Byrd Machine” admitted that the policies of
politics in Virginia for the past few decades have been “‘clean.”

We will always be skeptical of these messiahs who come into
Virginia, tell her people how and why they are being mistreated
at least from a political standpoint, and call upon them to rally
behind a banner of “progress,” “Liberalism,” and now “non-
conformity.” In most cases, these men have little constructive
criticism to offer. They quote lists of statistics which are invar-
iably answered by those in power with equally lengthy and im-

pressive lists.

These critics of conservatism fail to realize that the people of

Virginia have up until the present favored the so-called
“agrarian”’ policy in the state; that they are in favor of low taxes
and a sound fiscal policy; and that they have favored the candi-
dates who have offered them sound conservative government.

Colonel Wise: Last Of The Individualists —

By JOHN PAUL

One of the most lamented phe-
nomena of our society is the value
which we place upon conformity. A
realistic person must be careful
what he chooses to say. If one
chooses to stand other than with
the crowd one should at least take
the precaution to choose a noncon-
troversial subject to take a stand
upon. It was, therefore, a most re-
freshing experience to meet and talk
with one of the few controversial
figures remaining, Col. Jennings C.
Wise.

I approached Col. Wise’s den in the
Dutch Inn with some misgivings. His
appearance is indeed distinctive. His
gray hair and matching goatee are
accentuated by the great flowing
black bow tie he wears about his
neck. He is often seen carrying a
cane and wearing a long black cape.
In his lapel he wears the Distinguish-
ed Service Cross and the badge of
the French Legion of Honor.

My initial misgivings were over-
come, quite shortly however. I found
the Colonel to be courteous, affable,
and despite local legends to the con-
trary, somewhat modest. He struck
me as being the youngest octogenar-
ian I had ever met.

Col. Wise is a graduate of VMI and
the law school of the University of
Virginia. He at one time served as
professor and commandant at VMI.
Col. Wise revised the curriculum at
VMI under the guidance of Prof.
R. T. Ely of Ann Arbor, onetime
dean of American economics, and
Dr. John Latane of Johns Hopkins,
a graduate of W&L.

 

Although military science is not
the most popular course among W&L
students, it might be noted that
Col. Wise was the designer of the
original proponent of the R.O.T.C.
system.

Col. Wise has also made a name
for himself in the fields of law and
politics. He served as Assistant At-
torney General of the United States
during the Hoover administration.
One of his accomplishments at the
time was the correction of parcel
post rates. He reminisced that it re-
quired a legal struggle against the
lobby of the country’s greatest mail
order houses.

“In the end the rates were chang-
ed,” he said, “allowing for an in-
crease in the size of parcels, lower
rates for short hauls, and raised rates
for long hauls which saved the Post
Office Department 50 million dollars.”

We discussed the law generally and
then got on to another of the subjects
which the Colonel is deeply interest-
ed in at the present. The Colonel
shares the view that racial segrega-
tion is proper. He is contemptuous of
the decision requiring desegregation
in education.

“This isn’t the law,” he said refer-
ring to the ruling of the Supreme
Court, “it’s dogma. But when the
Supreme Court keeps repeating dog-
ma, the Congress and the people keep
going along with it until it finally
begins to look like law.”

“As for the Communists, they will
try to break down the existing order
by fanning strife and by infiltration.
Then, when we've sold our souls,”

A Review

 

By ED NORTON

Senator Goldwater has defined the
conservative philosophy as “a body
of ethical and social beliefs which
suggest that we should apply the wis-
dom of the past to the present and
future. Above all else the conser-
vative is dedicated to the preserva-
tion of the dignity of the individual.”

In his best selling book, The Con-
science of a Conservative, he elabo-
rates on this philosophy and applies
it to the major issues facing the
nation today.

“The Constitution,” says Gold-
water, “is a system of restraints
against the natural tendency of gov-
ernment to expand in the direction of
absolutism.” He argues, however, that
the system of restraints has become
ineffectual and that the increasing
power of the federal government is
dangerously threatening America’s
freedom.

In its economic operations, the
scope of its activities, and its in-
creasing interference in the lives

Webster Unabridged

 

By ED WEBSTER

Socially conscious commerce ma-
jors will be interested in the recent
exploits of one Nikolai Ladnov, a
Russian,

Ladnov, known as “the Don Juan
of Moscow,” used an accounting
ledger instead of a little black book.
Written in the ledger were the names,
addresses, and other statistics for
521 (yes, 521) women whom he had
met in one way or another.

Ladnov gave each woman a ser-

of individuals, the federal govern-
ment has become “a vast national
authority out of touch with the
people and out of their control.”

To illustrate what he believes to
be unwarranted interference by the
government in areas not specifically
designated by the Constitution Sen-
ator Goldwater points to several do-
mestic problems of today. He says
of the current controversy over states
rights and racial integration, “I be-
lieve that it is both wise and just
for the Negro children to attend the
same schools as whites, (but) I am
firmly convinced—not only that in-
tegrated schools are not required—
but that the Constitution does not
permit any interference in the field
of education.”

To other major issues such as the
farm problem, taxation, and govern-
ment welfare spending Senator God-
water applies the same reasoning.
The federal government is acting
beyond the power granted to it by

 

the Constitution and is encroaching

ial number. We can imagine him
coming home after a hard day at
the factory and sighing, “Boy, I'm
sure in the mood for A-36592-J
tonight!”

The amorous statistician also had
a file of love poems cross-indexed
with the names of the ledger.

Who said that free enterprise is
dead in Russia?

ae ok *

Speaking of free enterprise, we are

 

reminded of Donald Kamfwa, the

 

 

on the rights of the states, local
government, and individuals.

The solution to this problem of
unlimited power will come, he be-
lieves, only when we entrust the con-
duct of our affairs to men who un-
derstand that their first duty as pub-
lic officials is to divest themselves
of the power they have been given.

Although Senator Goldwater warns
of the danger to American freedom
presented by the power of federal
government, he emphasizes in The
Conscience of a Conservative the
danger of losing freedom by losing
the Cold War with the Soviet Union.
He argues that we have been on the
defensive too long, “that we have
sought settlements while the Com-
munists have sought victories, and
we have sought to pacify the world
while they have sought to win it.”

United States foreign policy, he
believes, should be based on tak-
ing the initiative against Commun-
ism, for before the world can have
peace, conditions must be ready
for it. “A tolerable peace must fol-

pride of Northern Rhodesia.

Kamfwa, 55, has nine wives and
68 children. He is hoping to top 100
in the infant department.

*s 6 &

On the local scene, a word of
congratulation is in order to Mr.
Graham Morison for his speech at
the ODK assembly.

The unusual length of the address
caused it to overshadow the tapping
of ODK members—perhaps justi-
fiably.

 

By HUGO HOOGENBOOM

It may not be polite to criticize
invited speakers, but on the other
hand it is not polite for invited
speakers to subject captive audiences
to dull, tedious political diatribes.
However, politeness is only a mat-
ter of taste, and people differ on
that.

What was objectionable was hav-
ing to listen for one hour to an ill-
organized, pedestrian speech filled
with what seemed to be deliberately
misleading statistics.

Specifically: Mr. Morison discours-
ed lengthily on statistical compar-
ison of Virginia with the rest of
the United States. To make his point,
he selected only those statistics which
showed Virginia last or near the
bottom with the rest of the culprit
states of the South.

One of the most misleading was the

 

 

statistic which showed that workers

he said stroking his beard furiously,
“they'll have our country.”

One of the Colonel’s projects,
and he seems to have many, is to
encourage the building of a Memorial
Arch in Lexington “to commemorate
the Voluntary and More Perfect
Union of 1789 and the vanishing
rights of the States without which
the Republic cannot endure.”

On politics he further explained
himself saying, “I’m trying to make
both parties stand behind respon-
sible government. It doesn’t matter
what the name is, whether Demo-
erat or Republican.

“Now I’m trying to stop the radi-
cals from looting Virginia. People
damn me and try to cover facts
because they can’t believe that I
put the United States and Virginia
ahead of the name of a party.”

* Aa *

Another facet of Jennings C.
Wise’s career is the number of books
he has published. These include a
recently republished survey of Con-
federate artillery entitled The Long
Arm of Lee; a political study entitled
Woodrow Wilson, Desciple of Revo-
lution; a novel entitled On the Way
to Perignan; and a history of VMI
entitled Sunrise of the Virginia Mil-
itary Institute as a School of Arms:
Spawn of the Cincinnati.

Our library contains his Philosoph-
ic History of Civilization. This work
might be recommended for the his-
tory student who gets bored with
those dull, history texts. I myself
find it quite intriguing:

!in Virginia averaged a paycheck of
only $69.60 a week while their more
fortunate fellows in the rest of the
country did far better (I think the
figure was around $90.00 but am not
sure). The statistic which Mr. Mor-
ison forgot to mention was recently
released by the Gallup people. In
comparing the minimum weekly
amount necessary to support the
median family of four in various
areas around the country, it was
discovered that the figure for the
South was $66.00 while that for the
North was approximately $90.00. In
other words, although the Southerner
may earn less cash, he can buy as
much with the cash he does earn.

Mr. Morison also mentioned the
loss of several thousand farms over
certain periods, leaving his audi-
ence with a sort of subliminal im-
pression that whole parcels of land
were leaving Virginia (and going
North, one presumes).

 

“So vanishes the mystery of the
Cave Men, as also that of the

E-ski-Moo who are merely the
descents of those who continued

to survey the earth as messengers
of God’s House.

“But if in the post-diluvian cycle
of Shem-Ham-Japeth, the Eski-
moo were not the same as they are
today, neither were the so-called
cave men all brutal savages as
modern science depicts. Among
them as there has been in all ages,
were men of inspired enlighten-
ment—the true elders of mankind
corresponding to Japheth ‘the El-
der.’

“What became of the thousands
of caves in which the people of this
age survived in addition to the
crude ones presently known?

“The answer is a simple one. The
cities of the future arose upon
many of the caves which became
cellars and sub-cellars, such as the
catacombs beneath Pa-hi-si, Rome,
W-ar-sa-w and Ya-ru-si-loam.’

(page 169)

In regards to this book I remarked
to Colonel Wise that I found it
slightly confusing.

“Confusing?”, he asked incredul-
lously. “The only reason you find it
confusing is that you have been
taught history by the conventional
modes and texts. I have references
in there that are not found in the
encyclopedias. If you had studied the
texts I refer to in the bibliography
you wouldn’t have been confused.”

He added, “The purpose of the

 

(Continued on page 4)

 

Morison Knocks Virginia’s Conformity,
Slices Byrd, Laments Fall Of Norfolk

Most misleading but most amus-
ing of all was the tragic story of the
Fall of Norfolk. To hear Mr. Mor-
ison tell it, New York was only a
fishing village in those days, and all
Viriginia had to do was build a rail-
road and they’d have it made. Of
course just what was going to be
shipped in and out of Virginia aside
from tobacco and cotton he didn’t
say and doesn’t know. Unfortunately,
Harry Byrd wasn’t in power then,
so he can’t be blamed for that. I
suppose it was the same element that
caused Buena Vista’s failure to sur-
pass Pittsburgh as a steel producing
city.

In the first part of his speech, Mr.
Morison delivered the Annual ODK
Attack on Conformity. I’m sure his
listeners were prepared to settle back
on that one. But Mr. Morison, in his
subtle way, used conformity as a
springboard for his attack on Sena-
tor Byrd and his friends. Mr. Byrd,
he proclaimed, was a conformist, as
were his friends and supporters. We
have all heard how bad conformists
are, so, so much for the Byrd Ma-
chine.

But what is a conformist? One who
does something simply because near-
ly everyone else is doing it. Senator
Byrd and his friends are certainly
not following the lead of everyone
else but are doing the leading. Mr.
Morison may not like where they are
going (presumably he likes it better
than Tennessee) but he can hardly
call leadership conformity.

If Mr. Morrison does not like con-
servatism, that is his privilege, and
if he wishes to tell us why, that, too,
is his privilege. But that is what
he should be doing instead of badger-
ing us with his tawdry collection of
statistics and his singular under-
standing of history.

 

 

‘Conscience Of A Conservative’

low victory over Communism.”

He leaves two choices to Ameri-
cans. “Either the Communists will
retain the offensive; will invite us
in local crisis after local crisis to
choose between all our war and lim-
ited retreat; and will force us, ulti-
mately, to surrender or accept war
under the most disadvantageous cir-
cumstances. Or we will summon the
will and means for taking the initia-
tive and wage a war of attrition
against them—and hope, thereby, to
bring about the internal disintegra-
tion of the Communist empire. One
course runs the risk of war and
leads in any case, to probable defeat.
The other runs the risk of war and
leads to possible victory.”

Senator Goldwater denies the
liberal accusations that his domestic
policies show no concern for human
welfare, or that his foreign policy
is widely isolated. He maintains that
the Conservative philosophy will
meet with what he considers the
greatest challenge of the day, “to
preserve and extend freedom.”

Notes On Nikolai Ladnov, Don Kamfwa, Morison

What we were hearing, apparently,
was one of the few point-blank ex-
pressions of concern over Virginia
that any prominent Virginian has
dared to express. Mr. Morison also,
we may assume, would like to have
his name remembered in the up-
coming gubernatorial or senatorial
races.

It is not often that W&L gets a
chance to hear a speech of this
calibre. Mr. Morison honored the
school by choosing to present it
here. Unfortunately, the impatience
and indifference of the audience
were all too evident.

Spontaneous applause greeted Mr.
Morison in several places in the lat-
ter part of his speech. His comments
on the Lynchburg mess, however,
were received gingerly. As usual,
W&L allied itself safely on the side
of law and order, and fell into sil-
ence when Mr. Morison condoned
the goals that the six jailed students
had been seeking.

* * *

In general, the student body has
been interested in the tempest in
Lynchburg, but no one has cared to
go out on a limb. A group of student
protesters at a local church got cold
feet at the last minute. A couple of
seniors went down and chatted with
the minister who’s at the core of the
ruckus, and even bought two “white”
tickets so that the two old Negro
women could fox the color line at the
Passion Play. But all this happened
sub rosa.

Although no banner-wavers have
arisen at W&L, there does seem to be,
for once, a healthy interest in an is-
sue of some importance.

(Continued on page 4)

Che Ring-tum Phi

Tuesday Edition

The Ring-tum Phi is published Tues-
day and Friday during the college year.
It is printed wi, the Journalism Labor-
one. Press. aay neten, end Lee Uni-
versity. e mailing address is B
899, Lexington, Va, ” eee

Entered ag second class matter Sep-
tember 20, 1946 at the Post Office, Lex.
ington, Va., under the act of March
3, 1878.

National Advertising Representative:
The National Advertisers ervice, Ene.
420 Madison Ave., New York, N.Y.

 

Be vase sssanisssssuiniinsses Rosewell Page, III
Business Manager.............. Huntley Biggs
Editorial Board
Managing FEditor.................... Bill Roberts

Photography Kditor.......... ll

Assistant Managi t a
News Editor.
Sports Editor...

 

Steve Galef
Bob Bridewell
. .Steve Guild

Associate Editors........ Lanny Butler, Bill

Smith, Ronnie King
Advertising Manager.......... Jerome Dattel
Circulation Manager........ Peter Agelesto

  
 

 

 

CO 7 ho ALwavs

PUTS A NOTE
IN MY LUNCH.

   

 

 

 

 

 

 

“A SMILE EACH DAY WILL
BRING HAPPINESS YOUR WAY ”

 

 

 

 

THATS NOT A LUNCH...ITS A
CHINESE FORTUNE COOKIE!

 

 

 

 
 

THE RING-TUM PHI

Page 3

 

Basketball

 

W &L Falls To Roanoke, Catholic;
Fauber Holds Usual Top Form

a + * , e =) ie hie
ee tet ae
F bad * Fi . on , : ;

The Washington and Lee Generals,
after their resounding victory over
the University of Virginia, lost to the
Maroons of Roanoke College last
Wednesday night by a score of 77-63.
Although Rodger Fauber was the
high scorer of both teams, the Gen-
erals could not hit from the floor in
competition with the Roanoke school.

The Maroons got off to an early
lead by making a layup shot imme-
diately after the opening buzzer.
Then Roanoke piled up a quick 26-10
margin with 11:31 left in the first
half. By intermission they had in-
creased their lead to 46-33. From
then on throughout the second half,
the coasting was easy.

The W&L scorers were having an
off night. Fauber with his 21 points
was high scorer, with Bill Ide fol-
lowing with 13 points. Brett Thacks-
ton, usually scoring up with Fauber,
sunk only 10 during the night.

At one time it seemed that the
Generals were having a surge of
power to overcome the Maroons.
With 4:45 left in the second half
and the score standing at 71-53, the
Generals made 10 baskets to increase
their score to 77-63. However, time
ran out for the Blue and White and
the final score stood at 77-63.

W&L 68, Catholic, 91;

W&L’s basketball team finished
out the home season on a losing note,
bowing to Catholic University, of
Washington, D.C., last Friday night,
by a 91-68 score. The Generals took
an early lead, but the Cardinals
caught up late in the first half, lead
35-32 at the half, and pulled away
in the second half for the win.

The Generals hit 38 per cent of
their shots from the floor, but
Catholic hit with an amazing 52.6
per cent. Most of the Cardinals’
goals came in the second half.
when they unleashed a devastating
fast break which accounted for
many of their 26 goals. For the
game, they hit 40 of 76 attempts,
while the Generals succeeded on
only 31 of 80. From the foul lines,
The Generals were 7 for 16, while
the Cardinals had 11 in the same
number of attempis.

In individual statistics, Catholic’s
Gene Horan led all scorers with 30
points. W&L’s Rodger Fauber was
second with 19. Brett Thackston and
Bill Ide added 12 and 10 respectively
for the Generals. Besides Horan,
Catholic had three other scorers in
double figures.

In rebounding, the Cardinals
had 55 compared to 44 for W&L.
Jack Spenser and Walt Skinner got
12 for the Generals, Fauber added
ten more to W&L’s total.

The Generals’ record is now 7-10,
equaling last season’s final total. They
close out their season tonight with
a game against Emory & Henry, a
team they beat earlier this season
in Lexington.

Loceeareeerrrererenreo se

 

__

 

—

 

rein ua ACG PSO A AAR EAATOOR AD

Bill Ide goes up for two in last Friday’s game against Catholic University.

 

Washington and Lee’s wrestling
team was denied its seventh consecu-
tive victory Thursday night by a
27-2 defeat handed to the Generals
by a strong West Virginia squad.
This loss leaves the Generals with
a 6-3 mark with one match remain-
ing on the schedule. The season’s
finale will be next Monday as W&L
takes on the Wahoos of Virginia on
the Generals home mats.

Captain Sandy Mersereau picked
up the Blue and White’s only points
from W. Va. by virtue of a 4-4
draw in the 157 Ib. division. The
other results were as follows:

123 Ib.—Ralph Stanton pinned
Hoke Robinson—3:22.

130 Ib—Paul Cheek dec. Dave

 

 

For those extra pieces

of
FURNITURE

for your room
see our stock

 

 

 

 

 

 

+ ; before buyin
= R.L. Hess and Bro. = &
z JEWELERS : a
* ‘ a %
te Lexington, Virginia *
% HO 32-2833 : VARNER AND POLE
Pebstetetebebotetetetetetotebebetobeledo
LO rrr Or Or Orr rr Or OOOO OO OOOO ;
WANT TO CUT SHORT THE STUDY???
try our
College Outlines Barrons Series }
Hymarx Outlines Data Guides
Made Simple Series Vocabulary Cards }
4
4
The Book Shop :
4
W. Washington Street }
4
A

 

 

 

 

sis oat ‘i “ores

Member

 

   

STUDENTS ACCOUNTS INVITED HERE

F.D.LC.

 

 

 

Montgomery—2-1.
137 lb.—Bob
Greer—9-3.

West Virginia Tumbles Grapplers

Petres dec. Ken

147 lb—Bob Church dec. Ed

Jansen—4-1.

167 lb.—Ed Rhein pinned Dick

Albert—5:23.

177 lb—Bob Hoblitz dec. Jud

Babcock—11-3.

Heavyweight — George Nedeff

dec. Sam Bloch—7-4.
(Continued on page 4)

 

IDEAL
BARBER SHOP

QUICK SERVICE

Merle rho orto she short

Mee rhe here rte oho ofo ode rfe ole ofe ole oe oe oe fe oe este fe forge

 

‘| standouts like Capt. Skip Rhonke,

 

Thinclads Preparing For Spring Season
Robrecht To Fight Thursday Night

VMI Meet Shows Team'
Strength and Weakness

Coach Lord’s track team is busily
getting into shape these days for
the fast approaching outdoor season
which is a scant 6 weeks away. Un-
til clement weather the team will
share the fieldhouse with the Key-
dets, also in training.

Winter sports and spring football
practice, containing several even-
tual members of the thin-clad squads,
can be blamed for the relatively
shorthanded practice at this time.
The harriers taking their daily work-
outs now are primarily concentrating
on conditioning. Indoor meets are
sparse for the W&L squad, but
enough to give some of the neophytes
a taste of college track.

Last Saturday the Generals com-
peted in the Virginia Indoor Track
Championship meet at the VMI field-
house, running against such formi-
dable opponents as VMI, Va. Tech,
Virginia, and William and Mary. The
Generals scored in both the Fresh-
man and Senior Divisions. The two
freshmen scorers were Rob Kell,
clearing 510” in the High Jump,
and John Pearson, snatching a fifth
in the 70 yard Low Hurdles. Ship
Essex, another freshman, placed
fifth in the Senior Division 440
yard dash, turning in a very respect-
able time of :53.7. His trial time was
a better :53.6. Returning letterman
Jim Hickey rounded out the Gen-
eral scoring column with a fourth
in a tightly contested 60 yard dash.

When asked about the team pros-
pects for the coming season Coach
Lord showed his usual optimism,
predicting a good season, barring
injuries, etc. The record book will
support the ability of Mr. Lord’s
prognosticating powers, showing
nearly two years of barely blemished
seasons. The Coach expressed regret
over the loss of some of last year’s

quartermilers Bunkley, and Blakes-
lee, and other regulars lost through
graduation or transfer. But Lord ex-
pects strong replacement support
from Essex in the middle distances,
and from freshmen Jansen, Croft, and
Pearson in the hurdles.

The next opportunity for the thin-
clads to show their strength will be
in a meet with High Point College
run here on March 17.

 

 

Radio Hospital
*
Radio, TV, Phonograph
Sales and Service

*
HO 3-3531

 

 

 

Open a convenient student Checking account
TODAY

Rockbridge National Bank

Member Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation

 

 

 

 

The Southern Inn

Cordially invites you to make this your headquarters for good food
Here you get the best food for the most reasonable prices

Our S pecialties:

Steaks, Chicken, Country Ham, and the best sandwiches
in town

Meet your friends here

 

 

LEEEEEEE EEE EEE HHH EEE ESE ESSE EEE EE EERE EERE
We Feature

SEALTEST
Dairy Products
“To get the best get Sealtest”

*
+
+
+
+
:
cs
+
+
+
+
+
%
*
+
°

over twenty different products in addition to
delicious Sealtest ice cream

Block and Crushed Ice

Your favorite mixes—Ice Cold

*
Maple-Rock Distributors, Inc.

Phone HO 3-2168

 

;
;

epee eee eee ehh hee hoe hhh hhh hhh heh hep

 

Ray Robrecht Washington and Lee
University’s individual boxing team,
returns to the ring Thursday night
in Roanoke’s National Guard Armory
at 8:30.

Southpaw Robrecht, who has not
fought since last spring, will meet
Claude Bice of the Quantico Ma-
rines in a middleweight bout. Ro-
brecht will fight as a member of the
Roanoke Police Athletic League
team.

Bice and Robrecht fought on the
same card in Roanoke last spring
when Robrecht decisioned Quantico’s
Allen Hansen and Bice stopped a
Roanoke P.A.L. middleweight.

In his five years as a member of
the Roanoke P.A.L. team, Robrecht,
a native of Plainfield, N. J., has
achieved a 5-0 record. His career
record is 8-0 with three knockouts.

The highlight of Robrecht’s young
career was his winning of the novice
division middleweight title of the Vir-
ginia Golden Gloves in March, 1959.
In the title match Robrecht stopped
ex-Marine Bill Fleishman of Cov-
ington with a second-round TKO.

Robrecht became interested in
boxing only six years ago when he
started working out in the Plainfield
YMCA in order to keep in shape.

“T went to the YMCA just to keep
in shape,” Robrecht said, “but before
I knew it I became seriously inter-
ested in boxing.”

 

Notice

The Commerce Fraternity pic-
ture will be taken at 2 p.m. Thurs-
in the Commerce Library.

 

 

Me Me he ode oe oho oe oke he oe ole adeno ofe oho ahe ole oe ferent fens
*

NEW TOWN INN

; MYERS
° HARDWARE
* COMPANY

 

eeeeeesece
He Se oho afe ofe ote fe oho of

Short Orders—Lunches
Catering to Students
Woohoo ode oho ofe oho fe oer oe oe ofe of oe fe vle ole fe ale feof fe

a
%
%
~
%
%
:
+

 

   

    

badetenapwe precisely bow tau

 

 

(Author of “I Was a Teen-age Dwarf”, “The Many
Loves of Dobie Gillis’, etc.)

“l’VE GOT NEWS FOR YOU”

I know all of you have important things to do in the morning—
like getting down to breakfast before your roommate eats all
the marmalade—so you really cannot be blamed for not keeping
up with all the news in the morning papers. In today’s column,
therefore, I have prepared a run-up of news highlights from
campuses the country over.

SOUTHERN RESERVE UNIVERSITY

Dr. Willard Hale Sigafoos, head of the department of anthro-
pology at Southern Reserve University, and internationally
known as an authority on primitive peoples, returned yesterday
from a four-year scientific expedition to the headwaters of the
Amazon River. Among the many interesting mementos of his
journey is his own head, shrunk to the size of a kumquat. He
refused to reveal how his head shrinking was accomplished.
“That’s for me to know and you to find out,” he said with a
tiny, but saucy grin.

NORTHERN RESERVE UNIVERSITY

Dr. Mandrill Gibbon, head of the department of zoology at
Northern Reserve University, and known to young and old for
his work on primates, announced yesterday that he had re-
ceived a grant of $80,000,000 for a twelve-year study to deter-
mine precisely how much fun there is in a barrel of monkeys.

Whatever the results of Dr. Gibbon’s researches, this much
is already known: What's more fun than a barrel of monkeys is

  

a pack of Marlboro. There is zest and cheer in every puff,
delight in every draw, content and well-being in every fleecy,
flavorful cloudlet. And what’s more, this merriest of cigarettes
comes to you both in soft pack and flip-top box wherever cig-
arettes are sold at prices that do no violence to the slimmest of
purses. So why don’t you settle back soon and enjoy Marlboro,
the filtered cigarette with the unfiltered taste.

EASTERN RESERVE UNIVERSITY
The annual meeting of the American Philological Institute,
held last week at Eastern Reserve University, was enlivened
by the reading of two divergent monographs concerning the
origins of early Gothic “runes,” as letters of primitive alphabets
are called.

Dr. Tristram Lathrop Spleen, famed far and wide as the dis-
coverer of the High German Consonant Shift, read a paper in
which he traced the origins of the Old Wendish rune “pt”
(pronounced “krahtz’’) to the middle Lettie rune “gr” (pro-
nounced “‘albert’’). On the other hand, Dr. Richard Cummer-
bund Twonkey, who, as the whole world knows, translated
“The Pajama Game” into Middle High Bactrian, contended
in his paper that the Old Wendish rune “pt” derives from the
Low Erse rune “mf’’ (pronounced ‘gr’’).

Well, sir the discussion grew so heated that Dr. Twonkey
finally asked Dr. Spleen if he would like to step into the gym-
nasium and put on the gloves. Dr. Spleen accepted the chal-
lenge promptly, but the contest was never held because there
were no gloves in the gymnasium that would fit Dr. Twonkey.

(The reader is doubtless finding this hard to believe as
Eastern Reserve University is celebrated the length and breadth
of the land for the size of its glove collection. However, the
reader is asked to remember that Dr. Twonkey has extraor-
dinarily small hands and arms. In fact, he spent the last
war working in a small-arms plant, where he received two
Navy “E” Awards and was widely hailed as a “manly little
chap.’’) © 1961 Max Shulman
* * *

New from the makers of Marlboro is the king-size unfiltered
Philip Morris Commander—made in a brand-new way for a
brand-new experience in smoking pleasure. Get aboard.

Dit HOE (6 1
Page 4

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

Phi Delta Phi Leads Rush

Phi Delta Phi legal fraternity
pledged 19 men and led the law
school rushing. Delta Theta Pi pledg-
ed six and Phi Alpha Delta pledged
one.

The following pledged Phi Delta
Phi: Dalton Baugess, Ken Beall, Mal-
colm Burton, Alan Caldwell, William
Clark, Peter Dauk, Frank Duck-
worth, Norris Harmon, Joe Hess, Tim
Ireland, Jay Johnson, Gerry Keston,
George King, “Pat” Patterson, Jim
Randolph, Dick Rose, “Skip” Rhule,
John Tate, and Richard “Tiny”
White.

Delta Theta Phi pledges are: Ben
Hansel, Ed Meyers, Andy Russell,
Skip Taylor, Terry Whittington, and
Jay Wilks.

Phi Alpha
Penick.

Delta pledged Paul

 

Notices
The Calyx staff pictures of the
Southern Collegian and the Ring-
tum Phi will be taken Thursday
night at 7 in the Student Union.

Persons who have formally ap-
plied to participate in the AIE-
SAC program will meet in New-
comb Hall 8 at 6:45 p.m. on Thurs-
day.

 

Beta Gamma Sigma Elects
(Continued from page 1)

of Collegiate Schools of Business.
Membership is limited to those stu-
dents of highest academic attainment,
including no more than ten per cent
of seniors in commerce and business
administration and no more than
four per cent of juniors in the same
disciplines.

The society was founded at the
University of Wisconsin in 1913, and
the local chapter, Beta of Virginia,
was chartered in 1933. Two of its
charter members, Professor R. N.
Latture and Mr. E. H. Howard, Reg-
istrar, are still active in the univer-
sity. Officers of the local chapter
are Professor Thomas E. Ennis,
president, and Professor John M.
Gunn, Jr., secretary-treasurer.

 

Shenandoah
(Continued from page 1)

featured.

Co-editors for this issue are Bond
Johnson a junior from Birmingham,
Ala., and Dr. Keith Shillington, as-
sistant professor of chemistry. The
review is scheduled to be printed
during the first week in March.

 

 

STATE

LEXINGTON, VA
|_WOBART 23-2424 |

 

 

Friday through Thursday
Admission 90c

   
     
    

Nien MeLaTWE

 
    

Coy,
[| S Coxe?
ee

  

y with JULIET PROWSE

 

 

 

 

THE DUTCH INN

For Reservation Call
MRS. KATHERINE ADAMS
HO 3-3433

 

 

R-t-Phi Subscriptions

Many outstanding events will take
place during the Spring term on
the W&L campus. To mention only
a few: International Relations Week,
The Phi Beta Kappa assembly, ODK
selections, the SIPA convention, ten-
nis, lacrosse, baseball, intramural
events, and Spring and Final dances.
These and many other events are
covered by and preserved in the two
weekly editions of the Ring-tum
Phi.

Realizing how hard it is for us,
here at school, to keep those at home
informed, the Ring-tum Phi would
like to offer a special rate of $2.50
for the balance of the semester in
order that parents, friends, alumni
and any incoming freshmen may be
kept in closer contact with the
school.

We would encourage you to send
in your subscription as soon as pos-
sible in order that all the second
semester issues be sent. We will be
glad to include back issues as long
as they hold out. Everyone certainly
should spend 10 cents an issue to
keep his parents and others informed
on the school.

The attached form may be filled
out and mailed to Box 899, Lexing-
ton, Va., or it may be given to either
Huntley Biggs—SAE or Pete Age-
lasto—Phi Kappa Psi. The payment
of $2.50 may be made now or a
bill could be sent to your parents.

Payment: Cash
Or send bill to:

 

NOTICE

It is a Christian conviction that
life is always lived, though fre-
quently unconsciously, in the
midst of profound meaning and
and mystery. It is our conviction
that modern man in general, and
we in particular, have not been
sufficiently aware of this dimen-
sion of ourselves and our universe.
Therefore, we intend corporately
to seck to open our lives to God,
the source of this meaning and
mystery. If you are of like mind
please join us weekly, Tuesdays,
10 p.m., Student Union.

The University
Christian Association

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Green Valley Motel

One Mile North on
U. S. Highway No. li

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA
HO 3-2195

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Finest

SUNDAY

Choice Meats
WwW

Route 60 Buena Vista

Ted’s Steak House

Foods

DINNERS

 

LEEEEEEE EE EEE EEE EEEEEEEEEEES SEES EESEFEF ET EEE EES

Deedee eee efor ofeoderde onde oto ofe ote foo

-

Quality Cleaning and Pressing

UNIVERSITY CLEANERS
HO 3-3622

*
“Your Campus Neighbors”

fe oho oho ode of ode of afer ofe oe eof aah eae oe ae of oo ae oe oe oe oe ooo oe oho fe oe oe oe oho oho eho ode oe ode fo of+

Shirt Service as You Like it

&
+
*
rH
+
+

Prof. Gilreath
At Oregon State

Dr. Esmarch S. Gilreath, head of
Washington and Lee University’s
chemistry department, will serve as
a member of the faculty at a sum-
mer institute for college chemistry
professors at Oregon State College,
Corvallis, Ore., this year.

The institute, one of three spon-
sored by the National Science Foun-
dation to increase college teaching
effectiveness in chemistry, will run
from June 26 to August 5.

Dr. Gilreath will direct a course
in “Recent Developments in Organic
Chemistry.” His textbook on organ-
ic chemistry has been used for the
course in previous summer insti-
tutes at Oregon State.

Dr. Gilreath joined the Washing-
ton and Lee faculty in 1946, and has
served as head of the chemistry de-
partment since 1955.

Another member of the depart-
ment, Assistant Professor Dr. Wil-
liam J. Watt, has taught in similar
National Science Foundation insti-
tutes for high school chemistry
teachers at Alabama College in
Montevallo, Ala.

 

Glee Club Schedule Set

(Continued from page 1)

spring the Glee Club has ever spent,
during which there will be 18 re-
hearsals in less than two months,
three special concerts and a full
tour.

 

Webster Unabridged

(Continued from page 2)

This final note: At Brown Uni-
versity, a committee of top campus
leaders—six non-fraternity men and
nine fraternity men—have recom-
mended that Brown’s fraternity sys-
tem be abandoned.

They accuse fraternities of harbor-
ing an atmosphere inimical to the
true purpose of a university. They
condemn fraternities for fostering
conformity, and call for a removal
of “artificial restrictions” between
individuals.

Their recommendations, although
perhaps a little extreme, are indica-
tive of a widespread trend. The W&L
administration is surely not unaware
of this trend.

 

TOLLEY’S PHARMACY
Prescriptions Filled
Immediately

PURCHASE DRUGS
HO 3-2211

 

 

 

 

feeeeeeeserereeereeeeese
THE NEW

White Top

Restaurant
*

A personal invitation
to the
Students

Try our delicious foods

.
le
b
i}
.
,
.
\
”
\
a
.
.
*
.
-
a
m
a
.
\
.
\
.
.
.
5
.
, Route 60 East
.

4
4
*
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4

 

+
Phe eee bb bebteey

 

 

BROWN’S
CLEANING
WORKS
We call for

and deliver
HO 3-2013 14 Randolph St.

 

(Continued from page 2)

book is to start a revolution in
thought. It is intended to serve as a
guide to a new line of research.”

* * *

“What about the lapel pin you
wear, sir?” I asked. Mr. Wise arose
and walked to the wall. There from
among the assortment of paintings
and prints he took down two frames
and handed them to me. “That’s my
war record,” he said.

I looked at them. In one frame was
a large assortment of medals and rib-
bons. In the other was the Presiden-
tial citation for “extraordinary hero-
ism in battle, retaining command
though wounded.” Col. Wise had
served in France during The First
World War. When I asked him to tell
me how he won the medals which
included the Purple Heart two Dis-
tinguished Services Crosses, and the
French Legion of Honor, he refused
saying, “Any man who holds these
things as personal awards, who
doesn’t give credit to his men and
his subordinates, is just a damn fool.”

But I renewed my request to hear
the stories behind the medals and
he eventually relented. At my insist-

 

$546 Raised For Charity
ZBT’s Lead Contributors

Tony Schlesinger, ZBT sophomore
and chairman of the IFC annual
charity chest drive, announced that
so far a total of $546.50 has been
raised. This money will be divived
among the various charities to be
selected by Schlesinger, IFC presi-
dent Dave Lefkowitz, and W&L
scholarship secretary James Farrar.
The ZBT house was high contributor
on campus, giving $102.50. Schle-
singer thanked all contributors to the
drive and said the money will be
given to a worthy cause.

 

 

LEXINGTON
CLEANERS

Phone HO 3-3813 108 S. Jefferson

 

 

 

 

LEE Ebb eted
White’s Music

Store

;

(Opposite State Theater)
i
Phonographs—Hi-Fi
Expert Repair Service :
eo
3
*
:
i

5 W. Nelson St. Lexington, Va

HO 3-3522

 

Bebb ode obe dete ee bee te orto obo ode obo ode ofe ope ofoe

 

ve

Waggy’s Jewelers
35 S. Main Street
Phone HO 3-4121

THE HOME OF QUALITY

 

PP rr”

 

 

TEXACO
Super Service Station

Lexington, Virginia
Corner Main and Nelson
SOOCCCOOEOOOOLEESEOEOO®

|

Colonel Wise Expresses Views

That Show Individual Thinking

; ence he went further and told other

adventures which he had experienced
during his long and adventuresome
career. It was fascinating. I was no
longer the cynical student but now
the enthralled youth being told
wonderful adventures by a man who
had lived an amazing life.

One leaves a meeting with Col.
Wise with mixed feelings of anger,
humility, and wonder. Anger because
he adheres to ideas with which one
may disagree. Humility because the
Colonel has led an amazing life and
continues to do so. Wonder, because
in an age when there is such great
pressure to conform to the accepted
ideas of society Col. Wise is an in-
dividual with a singularly indepen-
dent mind.

Wrestling

(Continued from page 3)

In preparing for the match with
UVa., the Generals are counting on
the weakness of the Cavaliers in most
of the weight classes. The Wahoos
lost three of their best men last year,
and probably will be without the
services of Landon Hilliard, ACC
heavyweight champion, who has been
out with a knee injury. The match
starts at 7:30.

A J-V match with the Cavalier
frosh will precede the varsity clash.

 

SIPA Convention in April

The Southern Interscholastic Press
Association’s 32nd annual convention
will be held here on April 28 and
29, according to Prof. O. W. Riegel,
SIPA director and head of the uni-
versity’s department of journalism
and communications.

Brochures announcing the 1961
convention have been mailed to some
1,500 preparatory and high schools
in 13 Southern states and the Dis-
trict of Columbia.

Last year, more than 1,000 student
editors and faculty advisers attend-
ed the weekend event. They took
part in criticism clinics, lectures and
workshop courses aimed at raising
the standards of scholastic journalism
in student newspapers, magazines
and yearbooks.

SIPA trophies are awarded in 17
categories of student publications,
and professional press associations
and newspapers from Virginia ,West
Virginia, North Carolina and South
Carolina make special awards.

The annual convention is spon-
sored by the Lee Memorial Journal-
ism Foundation at Washington and
Lee. Student president for 1961 is
John Anfin of Radford.

 

 

Hamric and Sheridan
JEWELERS
Watch and Jewelry Repair
Hand Engraving and Class Rings
HO 3-2022

 

 

 

The First National Bank

of Lexington
*
has special checking accounts

for students

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ROCKBRIDGE LAUNDRY

and
Dry Cleaners

Shirts Transparently Wrapped
for Freshness
*
AGENTS:

Fraternities, Dorms and Co-op

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

keep a head of the game!

Gentlemen preferred by blondes, brunettes, and redheads
prefer ‘Vaseline’ Hair Tonic. That’s because most men use
water with their hair tonic — and ‘Vaseline’ Hair Tonic is
specially made to use with water! The 100% pure grooming
oil in ‘Vaseline’ Hair Tonic replaces the oil that water removes
from your hair. In the bottle and on your hair, the difference
is clearly there! Just a little ‘Vaseline’ Hair Tonic does a lot!

it’s clear 54
it’s clean...it’s

VASELINE HAIR

 

 

 

    
 

 

 

*VASELINE’ IS A REGISTERED TRADEMARK OF CHESEGROUGH-POND’S ING

 

 
 

 

 

 

om

 

FRIDAY
Edition

Che Ring-tum Phi

Washington and Lee Semi-Weekly Newspaper

FRIDAY
Edition

 

Volume LXI

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA, FEBRUARY 24, 1961

Number 37

 

Former Visiting Professor, ae
Toynbee, Speaks March 10 |

By GEORGE HONTS
Managing Editor
Famed British historian Dr. Arnold
Toynbee will speak on “Does History
Make Sense?” in Doremus Gymna-
sium at 8 p.m. Friday, March 10.

Dr. Toynbee will be the guest
of a personal friend and collabora-
tor, Dr. E. D. Myers. His lecture
is sponsored by the University Com-
mittee on Lectures headed by Amer-
ican History professor Dr. Allen
Moger.

Students and townspeople are in-
vited to hear Dr. Toynbee’s address.

Here in 1958

The university and Dr. Toynbee
should run into fewer difficulties
than in 1958 when Dr. Toynbee was
a ‘visiting scholar in residence’ for
the spring semester.

In a series of 15 lectures at that
time, Dr. Toynbee lectured on “A
Changing World in the Light of
History.” He concentrated on World
trouble spots, especially in Asia, and
concluded the series by saying the
world’s sole hope for salvation lies
in higher religion, and not in na-
tionalistic idealogies.

All 15 of the 1958 lectures were
filmed by Encyclopedia Britiannica
Films. The lectures were held in
Lee Chapel, which was too small
to seat the crowds which usually
numbered at least 800 and was un-
suitable for filming. After covering
over holes which might cause echoes
on the sound track, the producer
found Dr. Toynbee couldn’t see the
stop and go lights on the cameras.
The producer was able to solve that
problem by waving a Confederate
flag from the rear of the Chapel
balcony whenever he wanted Dr.
Toynbee to start or stop.

Closed-Circuit TV

The overflow crowds wanted to
squeeze into 550-capacity Lee Chap-
el. But the overflow was finally tak-
en care of by rigging a closed-cir-
cuit TV to a vacant room in McCor-
mick Library where ticket-holders
could watch Dr. Toynbee speak.

At the beginning of the lecture
series, the university conferred a
doctor of humane letters degree on
Dr. Toynbee. The degree was pre-
sented by Dr. Francis P. Gaines.

A native of London, Dr. Toynbee
is 71 years old. In 1955 he retired
as director of studies at the Royal
Institute of International Affairs, and
as research professor of internation-

 

Spring iusloal
Program Set

This Spring, several groups of mu-
sicians will present programs on and
around the W&L campus.

On Sunday morning, March 5th,
the John A. Graham Brass Choir
will present a short liturgical concert
in the Lexington Presbyterian
Church. The choir’s first selection
will be the “Sonata for Brass” by
Pezel. The other work in the pro-
gram will be a “Canzona for Organ
and Brass Choir” by Gabrieli.

On March 19th the W&L Glee
Club will combine with the Long-
wood College Choir and a nineteen
piece orchestra to present portions
of Handel’s “The Messiah” and
Faure’s “Requiem.” This concert
will be held at 4:30 p.m. in the Lex-
ington Presbyterian Church.

The glee Club’s annual Spring
concert will be held on April 26 at
8 p.m. in Lee Chapel. The West-
hampton College Glee Club will be
the featured guests on the program.
Each group will present the out-
standing songs from its repertoire.

On March 13th the W&L Concert
Guild will present pianist George
Feyer. Though Mr. Feyer has been
brought up in the classical tradition,
he now plays in the caberet style.
Feyer’s presentation of popular mel-
odies in an unaffectedly simple, yet
refined manner has won him acclaim
on the continent in Paris, Monte-
Carlo and St. Moritz. His concert
will add something new to the con-
cert series.

On May Ist at 8 p.m., the Concert
Guild will present the Lywen String
Trio which is composed of the fore-
most string players in the National
Symphony orchestra of Washington,
D.C. The concert will be in duPont
Auditorium. Included in the pro-
gram are works by Beethoven and
Mozart and by Fine Arts Professor,

 

Robert Stewart. The concert will be
the premiere of Dr. Stewarts’ “Try-!
pitch.”

al history at the University of Lon- ~

don.

Dr. Toynbee was educated at Win-
chester College, Balliol College at

Oxford University and the British ©

Archaeological School. From 1919-
1924,
Byzantine and modern Greek lan-
guage, literature and history at the

University of London. He is most —

famous for his 11-volume work “A
Study of History.” Dr. E. D. Myers,
professor of philosophy at W&L,
collaborated with Dr. Toynbee on

the 11th volume which was pub- |

lished in 1949. He is the author of
many other works including “An
Historian’s Approach to Religion.”

he held professorships of *

=
*

Arnold Toynbee

 

 

 

The Washington and Lee faculty
has recently approved a change in
curriculum for all freshman and
sophomore military science students,
which will become effective next
September.

The move was made in response
to a new educational policy adopted
by the U.S. Army last December
which now allows individual col-
leges and universities to be more
flexible than formerly in adopting
military science courses to meet the
individual needs of each institution.

Specifically, this change will re-
sult in shifting one course present-

 

Degrees Given Gov. Darden,
Dr. Cole By Union College

This morning at Union College in
Schenectady, N. Y., Dr. Fred C. Cole
President of Washington and Lee Uni-
versity and former Virginia Governor

and former president of U.Va. Colgate '

W. Darden, Jr., were recipients of
honorary Doctor of Law and Doctor
of Humane Letters degrees, respec-
tively.

Speaking on “The Future of the
South,” Governor Darden was one of
the principal recipients in a ceremony
marking the 166th anniversary of the
founding of the old Upstate New York
liberal arts and engineering college.
Dr. Cole spoke on the life of Robert

A. Toombs of the Class of 1828 at |

Union, who was the first secretary of
State of the Confederacy.

Dr. Cole Honored

The exercises at which the honor-
ary degrees were presented charac-
terized our president in the following
statement:

“Fred Carrington Cole, you are a
Southerner born and bred, since you
were born in Texas, received your
higher education at Louisiana State
and Tulane Universities before you
were called last year to the Presi-
dency of Washington and Lee Univer-
sity in Virginia. You are also a his-
torical scholar, having been a History
Professor, an editor of the Southern
Biography Series and of the Missis-
sippi Valley Historical Review, and
an authority on the history of the
American South. Union College, proud
of its long tradition of educating lead-
ers of both the ante-bellum and the
post-bellum South, is happy to wel-
come you to the fraternity of College
Presidents and to the society of our
honorary alumni by conferring upon
you the degree of Doctor of Laws.”

Gov. Darden’s Remarks

The year 1619, when the first Ne-
groes were introduced into the Eng-
lish North American colonies, marked

 

Interviews Set

Monday, February 27

Mr. Alden W. Hammond of the
Irving Trust Company will be on
the campus to interview seniors for
positions in Customer Relations,
International Banking, Operations,
Trust, and Investment Divisions.

Tuesday, February 28

Mr. R. L. Wilbur of the Business
Training Division of General Elec-
tric will interview seniors interested
in Accounting and Financial work
with his company.

Wednesday, March 1

Mr. T. W. Swank of the Mercantile-
Safe Deposit & Trust Company of
Baltimore, Md. will interview sen-
iors interested in a banking profes-
sion, including law and investments.

Thursday, March 2

Mr. Edwards of the North Carolina
Bank will visit the campus to talk
with seniors majoring in the Liberal
Arts fields or Business Administra-
tion, who have an interest in a ca-
reer in commercial banking.

Friday, March 3

A representative of the First Na-
tional City Bank of New York will
visit to talk with seniors interested
in the executive training program of
his bank.

All interested seniors are urged
to make appointments to meet with
the above representatives. Arrange-
ments for interviews may be made
in the Placement Office, Washing-
ton Hall 25.

 

“...the start of an unstable and un-
healthy regionalism which many years
later was to explode in the dreadful
and costly conflict of 1861,” former
Gov. Darden told the Founders Day
audience.

Pointing out that the early Negro
arrivals were not slaves but inden-
tured servants, Governor Darden said,
“The decision to substitute life servi-
tude for the contractual arrangement
whereby workers might enter the col-
onies as indentured servants and by
their industry and application earn a
place for themselves as freemen...
was costly beyond calculation both
morally and economically.”

“The most telling and probably the |
most far-reaching consequence of
forced labor was the creation of a
complete gulf between the agricultur-
al laborer and the landowner...
Slavery not only deprived the black
man of his freedom but it also de-
prived the enterprising self-reliant free
man and indentured worker of op-
portunities for employment and ad-
vancement. It generally closed the

 

door to the free labor force... which
is so necessary for the development

of any area and which would have
been of inestimable value to the South.
In the enlargment of forced labor we
find the germs of regionalism that was
impoverishing and divisive.”

1865 Marked End of Era

Also singled out for discussion by
Governor Darden was the year 1865,
which, he said, “...marked the end
of an era for the South. It was during
that year that the nation had its only
chance to avoid the fearful agony of
reconstruction...As it was, after a
start that seemed to promise much,
there was one difficulty after another
until the complete estrangement be-
tween President Johnson and his party
came about. The result of this was
military reconstruction for the South-
ern states and a long period of strife
and anguish which almost completely
paralyzed recovery.”

Cites Unifying Influences,
Current Progress

“Service together in World War I,”
Governor Darden said, “was the first
very great event tending to re-en-
gagement and understanding. But

(Continued on page 4)

 

Army Announces Selections

For Graduating ROTC Men

The Department of the Army has
released the branch assignments,
term of duty requirements and call
dates for a great portion of Washing-
ton and Lee seniors in the ROTC
program here.

Major Edward J. Roxbury, profes-
sor of Military Science and Tactics at
W&L, expressed his pleasure at the
number of assignments that corres-
pond to the __ students’ original
requests. Everyone who asked for
a delay in order to go to graduate
school received the delay of active
duty. Out of those cadets who asked
for a six month term of active duty,
77.2 per cent will receive this status.
Those cadets who requested a 2 year
term of service were granted that
form of enlistment.

Also, a number of students were
granted their original choice in a

CADET TERM OF ACTIVE DUTY
Calvin Adams delay Transportation
Harvey Allen 2 years Artillery*
Al Broaddus delay Army Intelligence*
Chuck Campbell delay Artillery
Dave Cook 2 years Infantry*
Chuck Day delay Artillery*
Cliff Elgin 2 years Chemical*
Harold Fischel delay Armor*
Kent Frazier delay Artillery*
Ed Gay delay Infantry
Perry Gordon 2 years Artillery
Hooker Hamersley 2 years Army Intelligence
Bill Heald 2 years Army Intelligence”
Rick Marshall 2 years Ordnance*
Lewis Nelson 2 years Army Intelligence*
Palmer Pardington 2 years Army Intelligence*
Don Partington delay Artillery*
Don Salinger delay Transportation
Richard Sharlin delay Artillery*
Walt Shuggart 2 years Infantry
John Soper 2 years Army Security*
Nathan Simpson delay Infantry*
Pete Straub delay Infantry
Bob Street delay Infantry
Henry Strauss 2 years Quartermaster*
Bob Sykes delay Army Intelligence
Steve Tomasek 2 years Army Security*
John Towler 2 years Infantry*
Jim Vann delay Army Intelligence*
Bill Willes delay Military Police*
Bill Young 2 years Chemical”
Bill McWilliams delay Artillery

“Indicates cadet’s first choice.

 

branch assignment. Seventy-one and
nine tenths per cent of the students
who have received their assignments
were granted their first choice, while
18.8 per cent received their second
choice. Each cadet submitted three
branches in his order of preference
to the Department of the Army and
for the most part where possible,
these requests were honored.

It is interesting to note that per-
centage wise those students who re-
quested a 2 year term of active duty
received a greater number of their
first choices, whereas, those men who
requested a delay received a lesser
amount of their original requests.

ROTC Department Announces Change in Curriculum;
_|Schedules New Military History Course Next Year

Assimilation Rules Stated,
Speaking Tradition Urged;
New Position Open

the assimilation box now located in

first floor of Washington Hall. The
move is being made, Partington said,

to more use.

 

Eighty-six and six tenths per cent of |
the 15 who received 2 years got their |
first choice, while 58.8 per cent of the |
men who requested a delay received
their first choice.

|
BRANCH |

 

ly taught in the freshman year to
the sophomore year and one now
taught in the sophomore year to the
freshman year. Most significant is
the fact that an entirely new course
will be added to the freshman year.

Beginning in September 1961, the
American Military History course
now taught freshmen will be part of
the sophomore year of study, and the
National Security course now taught
in the sophomore year will be part
of the freshman curriculum.

General Military History

The new course for next year’s
freshmen will be called “Great Cap-
tains in Western Military History,”
and will deal with general military
history of Europe, from the time
of Alexander the Great to Napoleon.

In addition, freshmen will be re-
quired to buy a regular commercial
textbook for the course, whereas
normally ROTC students have their
textbooks furnished them in the form
of ROTC manuals on specific sub-
jects and sub-courses. This is so
because this course will be unique
at W&L.

The text for the new military his-
tory course will be Decisive Battles
in World History, by J. F. C. Fuller.

 

Applications from students interest-
ed in filling the vacancy on the As-
similation Committee are being re-
ceived by the secretary of the Stu-
dent Body, Billy McWilliams, at the
Phi Delta Theta House until Feb. 27.

Don Partington, chairman of the
committee, also announced today that

the Commons is being moved to the

with the hope that the box will be put

Plans are also being made to relo-
cate the assimilation box in duPont
Hall, he said.

The chairman and other members
of the committee have expressed con-
cern with the failure of the student
body to uphold the speaking tradi-
tion. Although the committee has not
fined in cases of violation of the
speaking tradition, Partington says the
committee must take action if the tra-
dition is not upheld.

Students are reminded that tennis
shoes are not considered conventional
dress, and Partington urges students
to adhere to the conventional dress re-
quirement more closely.

The Assimilation Committee will
hold its fourth meeting of the semes-
ter Tuesday evening at 7 in the Stu-
dent Union. All members are urged to
attend.

1. Coats and ties must be worn at
all times.

2. Freshmen going to and from the
gym are not required to wear conven-
tional dress.

3. Freshmen going to the Co-Op
are not required to wear conventional
dress after 9:00 p.m.

4. Students riding in cars are not
required to be in conventional dress.

5. Socks are considered as part of
conventional dress and tennis shoes
and Blue Jeans are not.

6. Freshmen are required to use the
walks on the campus and may not
walk on the grass.

7. Students should adhere to the
tradition to speaking on campus.

 

Dr. Louis Hodges To Lead

Religious Discussions

Beginning this week studies on
Christian ethics for college life will
be held weekly under the leadership
of Dr. Louis W. Hodges, Assistant
Professor of Religion, The discussions
are divided among two groups, with
the Freshmen meeting on Wednesday
nights at 10 o’clock in the Freshman
Reading Room and the upperclass-
men on Thursday nights at 7 o’clock
in the Student Union.

The text book for the discussions
will be Conscience on Campus by
Waldo Beach, one of the country’s
most popular campus speakers. Con-
cerning the book, Dr. Hodges stated
that it is “the best book I know of
on the subject of Christian ethics in
college.”

 

Waldo Beach is the chairman of |
the department of Religion at Duke |
University and a well-known speaker

(Continued on page 4)

Senator To Discuss Education Bill

Pi Sigma Alpha
To Initiate
New Members

By EDWARD S. CROFT, II

Pi Sigma Alpha, the national hon-
orary political science fraternity, will
hold its initiation of new members
at 5:45 p.m. on Wednesday.

Following the initiation will be a
banquet for all members of the Beta
Omega chapter.

At 7:30 the fraternity will spon-
sor an address by Sen. Barry Gold-
water, Republican conservative
from Arizona.

Fourteen new members, whose
names have not yet been disclosed,
are to be admitted into the fraternity
next Wednesday. The chapter has
undergraduate juniors and seniors,
law students, and faculty members.
Warren Welch, Law School senior,
is president of the chapter and Dr.
A. E. Ragan is the faculty adviser.

Pi Sigma Alpha chooses its mem-
bers on scholastic achievement only,
and exists for the purpose of stimu-
lating interest in political science.
The members meet every other week
to discuss public affairs and politics,
and sponsor a speech at least once
a year by leading political figures.

Discuss Education

Sen. Goldwater will discuss the
elements of his new bill on educa-
tion which was submitted Monday
as a substitute for the Kennedy Ad-
ministration program.

The leader of the conservative
element in the Republican Party is
the author of a best seller, The Con-
science of a Conservative. He was
one of the outstanding figures at the
GOP National Convention this sum-
mer.

Tentative arrangements have the
senator scheduled to speak in Lee
Chapel. He is expected to arrive at
a near-by airport on Wednesday af-
ternoon .The public is invited.

One of the most articulate conser-
ative spokesmen of our time, Sena-
tor Goldwater has read widely in
the field of political theory from
Aristotle and Cicero to Jefferson,
Lincoln, Wilson, and Theodore
Roosevelt. His philosophy of govern-
ment as revealed in his best selling
book, The Conscience of a Conserva-
tive, is substantially as that expres-..
sed by President Jefferson in his
first inaugural address:

A wise and frugal government,
which shall restrain men from injur-
ing one another, shall leave them
otherwise free to regulate their own
pursuits of industry and improve-
ment, and shall not take from the
mouth of labor the bread it has earn-
ed: this is the sum of good govern-
ment and this is necessary to close
the circle of our felicities.

Native of Arizona

Born in Phoenix in 1909, and edu-
cated at Staunton Military Academy
and the University of Arizona, the
senator began his political career
some forty years later when he
was elected to the first two terms in
the Phoenix city council on a re-
form ticket. He led his seven-man
slate on balloting each time.

In 1950, he served as campaign
manager for Republican Howard
Pyle’s successful bid for the gover-
norship of Arizona. In 1952, he ran
against and defeated the Democratic
majority leader of the United States
Senate, Ernest McFarland.

Senatorial Duties

In the Senate, Goldwater is a mem-
ber of the following committees:
Public Labor and Welfare, Interior
and Insular Affairs, and the select
committee on Improper Activities in
Labor or Management Field. From
January 1955 until February 1956 he
was chairman of the Republican
Senatorial Campaign Committee. He
was re-elected to this post in 1959
and again in 1961.

Senator Goldwater is active in a
variety of activities of a non-political
nature. He is a brigadier general in
the U.S. Air Force Reserve, an ex-
pert on Indian Matters, an associate
of the Royal Photographie Society of
London, and a devotee of Dixieland
music. He has explored every section
of the Grand Canyon, once discover-

 

ing an unknown natural bridge.
NOTICE
The Friday Staff will meet in the

Student Union on Wednesday at 5:00
p.m,
Page 2

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

Che Ring-tum Phi
Conscience Of A Liberal

Melting snow, intermittent rains and “conservative” apol-
ogies have transformed this campus into a physical and intellec-
tual quagmire. Peaks were reached both on the barometer and
in the campus media on Tuesday of this week. Unfortunately,
we cannot, at the present, control such extremes in the weather,
but we hope to check this intellectual drift.

Norman Thomas and Graham Morison may have been too
much for our apologists to digest in one sitting, but the
cliches these indignants offer in rebuttal smack of prejudice, pro-
vincialism and political confusion. They shroud the doctrine
they have fabricated with the blanket-term, conservatism, and
settle down again, blissfully and contented, amid the once-
rippled mud that is Virginia.

In a breath , they warn against liberal “‘messiahs”’ filtering
through the state, at the same time assuming affinity with the
self-appointed conservative prophet, Barry Goldwater.

Our concern is not with the many and varying practical
ramifications of conservative and liberal “isms,” but with the
spirit behind which each is fostered. The oligarchic, Tory con-
trol of the notorious Byrd machine is a far cry from the creed
advanced by Goldwater which denies centralized political en-
roachment on the rights of the individual. Our apologists fail
to recognize this dichotomy of conservative terminology— or
any of the many other conflicts—however, as they combine the
traditional and the existant with complacency, conformity and
satisfaction and term it “conservatism.” The spirit which
Thomas Jefferson (whom these apologists claim by virtue of his
opposition to federal dominance was an arch-conservative) fost-
ered his political credos was a liberal spirit. We need only to
cite the following in support of this tenet: “We hold these
truths to be self evident: that all men are created equal. And
that they are endowed by their creator with certain inalienable
rights, that among these are life, liberty, and the pursuit of
happiness.”

The spirit of liberalism is liberty. It is the mood which ac-
cepts new innovations and welcomes wholesome change. It
is not chained to the dogma of the past, but is at liberty to im-
prove upon the present. Its considerations are far-reaching and
often are, from a practical standpoint, impossible, but its al-
legiance to the progress of man is more than emotional in im-
pact—as is evident in the 200 year history of the United States.
We are living in an unfamiliar and changing world, but we shall
never emerge from it safely if we cling cravenly to old formulas
or attempt to hide behind medieval prejudices.

This is the spirit our generation must cherish. If the past
was the only answer, we would all be pilgrims. The cancers of
conformity and complacency lurk in the potholes of our society,
and must be exposed to assure the continuity of this freedom-
loving spirit of liberalism.

New Buildings—A Definite Asset

Although one of the primary functions of any newspaper
is to level criticism where criticism is due, it must be remembered
that it is also a vital function of any publication to render praise
where praise is due.

The two announcements that were made during the past
few weeks concerning the construction of two new buildings on
the Washington and Lee campus both, we feel, warrant a great
deal of praise. We are, of course, referring to the statements
that work is to begin in the very near future on the construction
of an addition to Howe Hall, a new science building, and on a
new dormitory that will be used to house freshmen.

It has been our general policy to praise the “New Era” for
its far-reaching decisions. These decisions, we feel, have been
characteristic of this University over the last few years. For
this reason, we once again praise the administration for its an-
nouncements that work is about to start on these long-awaited
and over-due facilities.

It has been a known fact that for a long period of time

the present science facilities have been inadequate, as have
(Continued on page 4)

RES IPSA LOQUITUR

 

By THORNS CRAVEN
Friday Columnist

Going over some of the past issues
of the Ring-tum Phi it is hard not
to notice the
trend toward first
person interviews
of individualists.
Each _ columnist
seems to think
that he has found
the last one of an
almost extinct
race, and hastens
to put his impres-
sions of the repre-
sentative of that
rare species into
good New Yorker Profile form.
Rising to the challenge I have joined
the hunt, and I too have found one
of the last of the individualists.
Hereafter I will be referred to as
we, and the he referred to will be
half of we. The other half will be
I, except when more than two people
are involved, and in that case you
will have to do the math for your-
self.

Donning our (that’s my to you)
safari hats (actually there was only
one) the other day (actually last
week) we (me) went in search of
an individualist. But before em-
barking we decided to stop at one
of the local taverns for some sup-
plies for the trip, and much to our

 

Craven

 

surprise the hunt ended right there.

What do you think we ran into
before we could finish even half of
our large draft beer served in
small glasses (you realize of
course, that when I am we I have
to have two glasses of beer, one
for each of us)?

You could never imagine our sur-
prise when we bumped into an in-
dividual sitting at our very booth.
To use John Paul’s phrase, I did
(oops, we did) indeed have some
initial misgivings when we first
noticed the individual characteristics
of the individualist sitting across
from us, but they were quickly dis-
pelled as soon as he bought us a
beer.

Before proceeding further we
suppose that it might be a good idea
to identify, and give a little bio-
graphical information about our in-
terview. He is probably the most
authentic of the last of the indi-
vidualists because he is probably
the last individual you would think
of. Nonetheless, we can vouch for
the fact tht he is an individual. His
name is not Jose Jiminez, but Fred-
dy Walker, which rhymes with Jose
Jiminez (if Jose Jiminez is pro-
nounced incorrectly).

Naturally our conversation with

Freddy got around to his running
for Democratic Presidential nomi-

 

Judging from general student re-
action, last week’s ODK_ speaker

_-.. committed two
' sins, one mortal,
one venial. He

made what was
generally regarded
as a poor speech,
ie., either badger-
ing, boring’ or
bombastic then he
broke tradition
and challenged the
validity of Vir-
ginia’s conserva-
tism which he
closely identified with conformity.

Ironically, the speaker’s second
sin was generally regarded as the
more serious one. Mr. Morison gave
what was probably one of the most
blistering attacks upon Southern
conservatism which this school has
ever or will ever hear. This type of
speech could be expected to bring
some adverse reaction from an au-
dience predominantly conservative.
In fact, one or two students did walk
out on this affront to their idealogy.
But the rest remained, squirmed
and applauded cynically evidently
more sensitive about lunch and their
stomachs than about their political
beliefs.

As the Tuesday Edition has al-
ready pointed out, Mr. Morison’s
speech contained some exaggera-
tions, but it also contained some
pertinent wisdom. Mr. Morison
pointed out for example, that the
government of Virginia is essentially
a government by oligarchy. You may
call Mr. Byrd’s political machine
leadership or you may call it con-
formity, but the fact remains, as

   

Lasseter

 

Mr. Morison showed, that relatively
few Virginians participate in either

Credit Due Morison For Giving
Minority Report At ODK Fete

By VICTOR LASSETER
Friday Columnist

 

state or local elections, that state
elections seldom produce discussion
of deep issues, and that Virginia still
has a one-party press.

John Kenneth Galbraith has de-
fined those accepted ideas which
have great stability and are highly
predictable, and which are held to
long after they have lost their reason
for existence as the “conventional
wisdom.” In one sense Virginia may
be a victim of her conventional |
wisdom. If her leaders demand a
balanced budget in our complex na-
tional economy when a_ balanced
budget is often impossible and often
undesirable, if her leaders demand
less government activity in business
when the electrical trust case reit-
erates the necessity of government
supervision, then her leaders are
living in the past.

If, on the other hand, Virginia
leaders are able to follow their oe |
servative beliefs in running Vir-
ginia’s state government, that is
something else. It may very well be
that Virginia’s economy is still a
predominantely agrarian one. If so
then low taxes, minimal government
and frugality are possible and desir-
able. As Virginia moves into a more
industrialized economy, however,
these beliefs may have to be dis-
carded or at least modified.

The conduct of a majority of the
student body at the ODK assembly
revealed a certain lack of good taste,
manners and tolerance. In any case,
Mr. Morison did point out some sali-
ent objections to the conventional
wisdom of the South and of Virginia.
He deserves credit for having the!
courage to present his minority re-
port, even though he may have

 

presented it poorly.

Freddy Walker: Presidential Candidate,
And One Of The Few Individualists Left

nation in 1960, and to his triumphal
entrance into the city of Lexing-
ton in a covered wagon. We were
asking Freddy of his associations
with former political greats, es-
pecially with Harry Truman, and
the question arose, “Freddy, did
you see Mr. Truman when he was
here?” With modesty which is so
characteristic of him Freddy re-
plied with a blush, “Ha, did Harry
Truman see me?” We agreed that
he probably did.

Since Freddy is a frequent spec-
tator at Washington and Lee athlet-
ic contests the conversation left the
realm of profound political theory,
and we began talking about sports.
With one of the epigrams for which
he is so famous Freddy said “It’s the
best in the west.” Later on he elabo-
rated on that statement by saying
that as far as geography was con-
cerned “It’s the least in the east.”

Taking a cue from other first per-
son interviews that should have
been in third person we started
talking to Freddy about books. Most
interesting were some of the com-
ments on books he hasn’t read. He
said that he really hasn’t decided
which book that he hasn’t read is his
favorite, but that he favors The
Metaphysical Foundations of Mod-
ern Physical Science by E. A. Burtt
over Col. Wise’s Philosophic History
of Civilization. This prejudice, he
admits, is based on the weight of the
respective volumes, and not the color
of their bindings.

After a few hours of talking to
Freddy we gave up taking notes, and
after several beers we gave up re-
ferring to ourselves as we. Unfortun-
ately this was not due to a lapse of
memory concerning editorial plural-
ity, but to a weak foundation in
grammar. We continually referred
to ourselves as us instead of we.
But the mistake has been corrected,
and we’re back on the side of right
thinking.

This digression seems to elim-
inate any more of the enlighten-
ing conservation that we had with
Mr .Walker, but that is because
the Ring-tum Phi only prints an
expurgated version (or at least
only the expurgated version goes
to the newsstands of the nation).
The real juicy copies of unexpurg-
ated issues are behind lock and
key in the rare books room along
with the copies of the Tropic of
Cancer. This is where the Friends
of the Library hold their daily
meetings.

We're sorry that we didn’t take
(Continued on page 4)

Che Ring-tum Phi

Friday Edition

The Ring-tum Phi is published Tues-
day and Friday during the college year.
It is printed py. the Journalism Labor-
atory Press, Washington and Lee Uni-
versity. The mailing address is Box
899, Lexington, Va,

Entered as second class matter Sep-
tember 20, 1946 at the Post Office, Lex-
ington, Va., under the act of March
8, 1878.

National Advertising Representative:
The National Advertisers Service, Inc.,
420 Madison Ave., New York, N.Y.

Editor-in-Chief................ Nathan Simpson
Business Manager.............. Huntley Biggs

Editorial Board

Managing Editor
Assistant Mana

 

   
 
 
 
 

 

News Edito

Sports Editor
Coe Pere a
Advertising Manager
Circulation Manager
Office Manager

 

 

Visit By Queen
Shows Regard

For Colonies

(Editor’s Note: This week’s art-
icle is a continuation from last
issue’s column.)

By JON B. McLIN
Friday Columnist

The current visit of the Queen to
Pakistan and India is typical of the
continuing vigilance which is main-
tained for Far Eastern affairs by
Great Britain.

At the same time, her visit serves
to exemplify the nature of the
British influence over its former col-
onies. This influence, in a day when
it is no longer of a military kind and
decreasingly of an economic nature,
is ideological. It is the ideals of de-
mocracy and social welfare common
to Britain and her former colonies
that their interests are united.

The success of this influence may
be judged from the fact that all
former British colonies except
Pakistan are now operating un-
der democratic constitutions, not
to mention the strong economic
and diplomatic ties which unite the
Commonwealth countries.

It is only by understanding the
ideological nature of this influence
that it can also be understood why
Britain enjoys advantages over the
U.S. in dealing with these areas
and, indeed, why she can exert an
influence that is forbidden to the
U.S. This is true because the U.S.
confronts three ideological problems
in these areas which bother Britain
to a smaller, if not negligible, de-
gree.

These three problems are the
prejudices against non-white races,
against socialism, and against neu-
tralism. Racial prejudice, while it
hasn’t completely been abolished
here, is certainly minimized, at least
if Oxford may suffice as an example.
This eliminates the problem in deal-
ing with African and Asian colonists
that the U.S. encounters because of
discrimination in the South and else-
where.

It is similar with socialism and
neutralism. Having committed itself
to a Welfare State, achieved without
loss of democracy, Britain is in a
position to advise newly indepen-
dent states which aspire to the same
ends. And, as for neutralism, while
Britain is definitely committed to
the Western alliance, she is not
hampered by memories of Dullesian
condemnation of neutralism.

It is because Britain has been
dealing with these problems for
some time with a high degree of suc-
cess, that the U.S. is often view-
ed from here as being naive in these
matters. Many Britons feel that this
is to be expected, as the U.S. has
only recently emerged from its for-
mer commitment to _ isolationism.
They nevertheless feel, not com-
pletely without justification, that the
U.S. should more frequently avail
itself of the advice of its more ex-
perienced ally.

The view that is held here of Pres-
ident Kennedy is an extremely en-
thusiastic one, largely because it
is felt that he brings to the Presi-
dency a more realistic view of co-
lonial questions. But this enthusiasm
is tempered with a note of caution
among the more sober souls. As the
Manchester Guardian recently edi-
torialized: “But if Mr. Kennedy has
not also learnt the lesson that even
a virtuous, democratic America can
no longer expect to impose its views
on other countries regardless of the
wishes of the local inhabitants or the

(Continued on page 4)

 

 

Sa

(Editor’s Note: The following article appear-

Most of these athletes were in prep schools

and long on wit. He came from a poor-but-honest fam-

“The Not-So-Idle Rich Play Rough At Washington

the team’s left end Dan Blaine. Dan Blaine, IV,

to

 

 

ed in the Feb. 6, 1961 issue of the Norfolk-Ports-
mouth Ledger-Dispatch Star.)

By JOHN CRITTENDEN

True or false? All good football players come to col-
lege to escape a life of poverty and coal-digging. They
arrive wearing dirty fingernails and a layer of anthra-
cite dust.

True, of course. Everyone knows that sound athletes,
even the shrewd quarterback types, come from humble
beginnings. Of poor but honest parents, as the political
biographies say. Those who do not live in coal-mining
towns are recruited from the Ozarks, and check in
wearing bib overalls with patched knees.

T’ain’t so, says Lee McLaughlin, football coach
at Washington and Lee, who gracefully accepted
a trophy as the state coach of the year from the
Portsmouth Sports Club Saturday evening.

McLaughlin will match his players against any in
the country, pound for pound—or dollar for dollar. Last
year’s undefeated team ranked just as high with Dun
and Bradstreet as it did with the football writers.

* * *

The players on this team registered at Lexington
wearing three-button tweed coats, ties with regiment-
al stripes and tab collars. They limp a bit, to the right,
after long years of carrying extra weight on the right,
or pocketbook, side.

before coming to W&L—schools like Kent, Hill,
Andover and Lawrenceville. The latter carries
an annual fee of $3,100. The others are priced
in the same neighborhood. To stretch a cliche, this
is a pretty expensive neighborhood.

These boys feel most at home in tuxedos. They own
their own cars. They talk about girls, fraternities and
other creature comforts, but they are conversant also
in the stock market and real estate values.

But the Generals bleed red blod, not blue.

You can’t tell them from coal miners whey they
put on football uniforms. They rip and snort and knock
people down.

Washington and Lee does not sanction football
scholarships. Only one starter gets help from the
school—he’s on an academic grant. “But just be-
cause these kids don’t need financial assistance,
don’t get the idea they don’t like it rough.”
says McLaughlin.

% * ca

The coach backs this up with a word about a Wash-
ington and Lee football tradition.

The school awards a blanket—with insignia proper-
ly inscribed—to the roughest player on the squad. “The
kids would rather win that blanket than be named the
most valuable player,” says McLaughlin. “It’s the most
sought-after award we have.”

McLaughlin is the quiet, easy sort, short on hair

 

ily himself. His father was a Presbyterian minister.
There were nine little McLaughlins and somehow all

nine went to college. Lee went on an athletic scholar-
ship.

Since football is a demanding business and
rough-and-tumble, even when the players are
not paid, McLaughlin must offer a criticism now
and then.

This would make the average coach a bit gun-shy.

After all, an irritated player might really get mad.
“Get off my ear,” the kid might say, “or my pater will
buy this college and get a new football coach. One who
isn’t quite so loud.”

The boys have plenty of pocket change.
One starting halfback is the son of a leading DuPont

chemist. “Mister DuPont” they call him around the
practice field.

The parents of another starter always take a
couple of days off to see their son play each week-
end. They commute from three states away.

* He a

The captain of the 1960 team arrived at the beginning
of the school year in a limousine complete with uni-
formed chauffer.

Recently there was a picture of a handsome Phila-
delphia home in National Geographic Magazine which
caused a small stir in the W&L locker room. Just a
small stir. Not much. Seems the place was owned by

be specific.
McLaughlin sees so much of this sort of thing that
he makes a mistaken assumption once in a while.

He thought Steve Suttle, a quarterback and a
Texan, was of wealthy parentage.

Suttle denied it. “Coach, my parents had to
make quite a sacrifice to send me,” Steve said.

“Shucks,” said McLaughlin, “I thought all Texans
were rich.”

It is a Washington and Lee standard that all stu-
dents wear coats and ties. Conventional dress, it is
called. Naturally, this applies when the Generals go
on the road. It causes trouble sometimes.

Washington and Lee was in Pittsburgh to play
Carnegie Tech last season. They happened to hit the
school dining hall when a group of art students, in-
cluding some genuine beatniks, were eating.

ae * *

One of the bearded types came by the Wash-
ington and Lee table carrying a tray, stopped
suddenly and mumbled “Hey, lookit. Who are all
these creeps in coats and ties?”

“Come on, creeps,” said McLaughlin, “Let's go.”

This is an injustice. Not even beatniks have a right
to be critical of these boys just because they weren’t
born in log cabins. Poverty is not a prerequisite to
accomplishment any more. Didn’t a member of the not-
so-idle rich, and a part-time touch football player at
that, just make it as president?
 

THE RING-TUM PHI

Page 3

 

 

‘The Killer’ Goes Over Culley For Two

att

 

INTRASQUAD GAME TOMORROW

 

McLaughlin Finally Gets Team
With Experience; Outlook Good

“Experience is our ace in the hole.”

That was Coach Lee McLaughlin’s
confident remark as he watched his
Washington and Lee football squad
approach the end of two week’s
spring practice.

Until last year, the always smil-
ing McLaughlin had little to smile
about really, and after each of his
first three seasons at W&L his
perennial comment was:

“We need more experience.”

Last year Washington and Lee
rolled to its first undefeated season
in 46 years, posting an 8-0-1 record.

Now with 39 members members
of that crack squad returning, Mc-
Laughlin can sit back and smile
confidently when someone asks him
about his team’s experience.

Included in the 39 returnees are
eight starters and ten players off
W&L’s first alternate unit.

Spring practice ends tomorrow
with the annual intrasquad game at
3 p.m. on Wilson Field. Coach Mc-
Laughlin plans to make the oppos-
ing teams as equal as possible and
expects a good football battle.

McLaughlin’s potentially big prob-
lem—finding a replacement for Little
All-American center Terry Fohs—
may not materialize. At the end of

 

the 1960 season Fohs, a junior, said
that he would transfer to another
school in order to complete an en-
gineering degree. But now the 145-
pound center’s plans are indefinite.

Fohs has been working hard in
spring practice and is “looking bet-

Coach Mac Says

ON THE LINE—“The line will be heavier this year with Bob
Payne at tackle and Landon Butler at end in place of last year’s two
light men, Malcolm Brownlee and Windy Weed.”

ON THE BACKFIELD—“We'll have the same backs who started
in the last haif of the season—Steve Suttle, Doug Martin, Charlie
Gummey, and Jim Russ—again this fall. Freshmen McDaniel, Yoffe,

and Sackett should help us.”

ON EXPERIENCE—“Experience will be our ace in the hole.”
ON TERRY FOHS—“Terry’s looking better than ever. He’ll be

great if he’s back.”

ON SEASON OUTLOOK—“It’s hard to beat an undefeated season,
but experience-wise and program-wise this should be our top year.”

ter than ever” according to Mc-, Payne, Bill Wheeler, Dave Munroe,
Laughlin. He was the first player in| and John Lee can man the post
line to draw equipment when drills adequately.

started Feb. 13, and McLaughlin
says “That’s a good sign.”

Fohs was a defensive specialist
last year, but he will play offense
too this year because of the gradua-

‘ANYWAY, WE BEAT THOSE ‘DAMN’ WAHOOS’

 

Cagers Drop Final 3, End With 7-11 Mark;
Streak In February Is Season’s Highlight

By JOHN ALLGOOD
Assistant Sports Editor

Last December when basketball
began it was said that come March
the students would still be talking
about the football team.

Well, March is almost here and the
football team is not the topic of con-
versation.

All the sports conversation is
about how a bunch of determined
W&L basketball players put out as
hard as they could and socked
our Big Brother to the North—
the University of Virginia—78-68.

Although the Generals lost their
last three games of the season, Coach
Bob McHenry still said happily:

“Anyway, we beat those ‘damn’
Wahoos.”

After a dismal start which saw
Generals capture only two wins in
their eight games before Christmas,
it certainly looked like the basket-
ball team was on a downward swing.

But after a heartbreaking 70-69
loss to the University of Chatta-
nooga in the first game after

 

Christmas, the Generals found
themselves and raced to five vic-
tories in their next six games.

Included in this span were upset
wins over Randolph-Macon (73-69)
and Virginia (78-68) and a 68-65
win over Lynchburg which ended
the Generals’ 15-game losing streak
on the road.

Those three big wins came within
a period of five days. In those games,
the Generals played basketball like
W&L basketball teams of old.

Against Randolph-Macon Bip
Fauber, Steve Rutledge, and Brett
Thackston paced a first half General
onslaught that produced a 43-28
cushion at intermission.

The Generals were determined
to win that one as they sank 17
of 34 shots from the floor the first
half—a cool 50.0 per cent.

In the second half, the Generals’
accuracy from the floor dropped to
24.1, but deadly foul shooting in-
sured the win.

Against Lynchburg, W&L trailed
the first half, but midway through

3

 

 

the second half the Generals forged

Before 800 screaming fans, packed

ahead and desperately clung to a| like sardines into Doremus Gym, the
slim lead for the rest of the game.| Generals calmly shocked the Atlantic
Individual stars again were Faub-| Coast Conference’s Virginia Wahoos.

er, Thackston, and Rutledge, but

The game was nip and tuck the

as in the Randolph-Macon game the| first half as the Generals managed

win was truly a team effort.
Next came the crowning event
of the season.

a 34-31 halftime lead.
Virginia stormed out of the dress-
(Continued on page 4)

EGH Rips Generals, 68-59,
With Accurate Foul Shots

Washington and Lee’s basketball road jinx is still in full

affect!

The Generals ended their season Tuesday night at Emory
as they let an eight-point halftime lead vanish into a 68-59

Emory and Henry victory.

The loss was the Generals 17th
in 18 road games in the last two
years. Only a shaky 68-65 win over
Lynchburg two weeks ago kept the
two-record from being 0-18.

Led by Dave Grogan who hit five
of seven shots from the floor and
Bip Fauber, the Generals overcame
an early E&H lead and established
an eight-point halftime cushion.

Fauber tied the score at 2-2, 14-14,
and 16-16 with long jump shots from
the key before Steve Rutledge put
the Generals in front, 18-16, with a
driving layup with 10:20 left in the
first half

The Generals fought off the de-
termined Wasps until only 4:16 re-
mained in the game

At that point Tom Davidson sank
two free throws which made the
score, 57-57. Thirty seconds later
Larry Nave put E&H ahead to stay,
59-57, with two more free throws

On the ensuing play, the Wasps
stole the ball and went into a freeze

Responding just like the Wasps
planned for them to, the Generals
started fouling in an effort to get
the basketball.

E&H calmly sank eight more free
throws to put the game out of
reach.

Fauber paced the W&L scoring
with 16 points. Grogan and Brett
Thackston had 12 points each and
Bill Ide collected ten.

Fauber and Rutledge were one-
two in rebounding with 18 and 17,
respectively as W&L outrebound-
ed the Wasps, 62-53.

The Generals outshot Emory and
Henry from the floor as they hit
(Continued on page 4)

 

seo obete ob opeteogeteobeteotesteoeoteobeteoteteseotene

%

% %
'$ ROBERT E. LEE
+ : |
* BARBERSHOP é
| David M. Moore %
: Proprietor *
ee oe ode nfo ode oe ade ode ode ode ade ote ode ode ode ode ode ote ode ote odode

 

 

Dick, and Tommy Goodwin return.
Lettermen Joe Howson and Mickey
Walker add depth.

There should be a battle royal for
the starting end spots between the
five returning lettermen—Ned Hobbs,
last year’s regular left end; Dan
Blain; Landon Butler; Bill Roberts;
and Rosey Page—and __ standout
freshmen Buck Ogilvie and Mike
Jenkins.

In the backfield McLaughlin has
virtually the same line-up that car-
ried him through the last half of
the 1960 season.

At quarterback two veteran let-
termen, starter Steve Suttle and
Robin Wood, return. Freshman John
McDaniel, who has impressed Mc-
Laughlin in spring drills, should
see plenty of action.

tion of first string offensive center
Courtney Mauzy. Letterman Jerry
Hyatt a junior, will share the of-
fensive center duties with Fohs.
Washington and Lee was hit hard
by graduation at tackle, but Mc-
Laughlin thinks lettermen Bob

Charley Gummey, who tied for
leading scorer in 1960 with 28
points; Jim Hickey, a speedster
who does the 100 in :9.09; Dave
Tharp; and Ashley Wiltshire re-
turn at left halfback.

At the right half spot Jim Russ,
(Continued on page 4)

 

At guard George Cruger, Barton

 

 

 

Thackston Leaves Puzzled ’Jacket To Rutledge

Thackston Rivals The Best Of Them On Court;
‘Brett’s Smart, Quick, And Alert-—McHenry

By JOHN ALLGOOD
Assistant Sports Editor
A month ago guard Brett Thacks-
ton made Washington and Lee coach
Bob McHenry a promise.
In W&L’s six games since then
Thackston has certainly lived up to
that promise.

The promise? It was short and
simple: “Coach, Tll never miss
another free throw in a crucial
spot.”

Thackston made this promise after

he missed a free throw that enabled |

the University of Chattanooga to
post a 70-69 victory over W&L
Jan, 7.

How has he lived up to his prom-
ise? The 5-9 playmaker has carried
Washington and Lee to key vic-
tories over Virginia, Randolph-
Macon, and Lynchburg with 80.9
per cent accuracy at the foul line.

Thackston, who leaves his nerves
on the bench when he enters a
game, sank 11 of 12 free throws in
W&L’s 78-68 upset of Virginia. His
two free throws with 6:20 left in
the game put W&L ahead to stay,

52-51. But the little guard wasn’t|

through. In the game’s last three
minutes he added eight more foul
shots to cement W&L’s win.

“Brett has been our quarterback.
I have not taken him out much
because the team doesn’t play well
when he’s on the bench,” McHenry
said.

Deadly accuracy at the free
throw line and a good jump shot
have made Thackston Washing-
ton and Lee’s leading scorer. In
fifteen games he has scored 223
points—a 14.46 average.

In the Randolph-Macon game,
the Yellow Jackets cut W&L’s
lead to one point with 4:03 left,
but Thackston stepped up to the
foul line, sank two free throws,
and kept the Generals on the
road to a 73-69 win.

At Lynchburg Thackston steadied
a shaky one-point W&L lead with
two free throws in the game’s last
fifteen seconds. W&L won, 68-65,
and broke a 15-game losing streak
on the road.

Thackston, a sophomore from
Bristol, Va., is W&L’s most im-
proved player. Last year he saw
only limited action, but this year
he has played more than anyone
on the team.

He turned in his best performance
against Virginia. The fiery playmak-
(Continued on page 4)

 

TETLOW
TV Service

 

 

 

For Reservation Call
MRS. KATHERINE ADAMS
HO 3-3433

THE DUTCH INN
| HO 3-2841
|

 

 

 

 

| 221 S. Main

 

 

It’s Good usiness
To Do usiness
with IERER’S

PHARMACY

 

 

SLLRRRnRRn ELL Eee nnEnar

%

* R.L. Hess and Bro. ¢
z JEWELERS :
\< Lexington, Virginia ‘
ae te
- HO 3-2833 ;
sedertoofooteoteefeofoogeoteetentecfeteaterfeogeotesteoteteoteteot

 

000000 0000000000000 000000000 0005008000808CCSECEES
FOR ROOM RESERVATIONS—CALL HO 38-2151
LEXINGTON MOTEL
Large Rooms—U., S. 11 By-Pass South
Free TV—Phones—Continental Breakfast

Only Motel in corporate limits of Lexington
POOSOHSOSTESOHOSOHSHHOHOHODOOHOOHOHOOSOOEHEECEOCEEESE

FOREIGN CARS AND STUDEBAKER LARKS
OUR SPECIALTY

Expert Motor Work
MAIN STREET

Open 8:00 a.m.—8:00 p.m.

MOBIL STATION

 
 

 

 

Page 4

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

New Buildings—A Definite Asset

been the facilities available for journalism.

We are therefore happy to s

ee that these problems are being

met by a University that will face its obligations squarely in the

face, rather than suffer a blow

to its academic integrity.

To the Office of University Development, to the Adminis-
tration, and to all the friends and alumni of Washington and
Lee whose generous contributions made these new facilities
available, we issue a heartfelt “thanks.”

R. R. G.

 

E&H Rips Generals, 68-69

(Continued from page 3)

ing room after the half, intending
to show the Generals how to play
basketball.

Instead the Generals taught the
Wahoos a few lessons.

Led by Thackston and Fauber,
who collected 27 and 26 points,
respectively, their season highs,
the Generals slowly pushed their
lead upward.

The Generals did not falter under
pressure; they did not make mis-
takes; they went onto the court to
win. And win they did!

McHenry called the Generals’ per-
formance, “The greatest effort by any
team in any sport that I have ever
seen. They were simply great.”

The Generals’ final record (7-11)
is not too impressive, but with every-
one returning next year, the basket-
ball team should join the football
team in the halls of success.

And as McHenry said:

“Anyway, we beat those ‘damn’
Wahoos.”

R-t-Phi Subscriptions

Many outstanding events will take
place during the Spring term on
the W&L campus. To mention only
a few: International Relations Week,
The Phi Beta Kappa assembly, ODK
selections, the SIPA convention, ten-
nis, lacrosse, baseball, intramural

 

Football Outlook Good

(Continued from page 3)

Richard Mosby, and Wayne Brad-
shaw will have to fight off the
spirited challenge of top freshman
prospect, Stu Yoffe.

Doug Martin, W&L’s pint-sized
fullback who gained 619 yards and
scored 26 points last year, is back
at that position along with Tommy
Keesee, who added 303 yards rush-
ing.

Washington and Lee will play an
eight-game schedule in 1961 meet-
ing Johns Hopkins, the team that
blemished its 1960 record with an

8-8 tie; Hampden-Sydney; Ran-
dolph-Macon; Washington (Mo.);
Sewanee; Centre; Franklin and

Marshall; and newcomer Emory and
Henry.

 

Thackston Praised

(Continued from page 3)

er was high scorer with 27 points.
He made 11 of 12 free throws and
eight of 16 shots from the floor.
After the game Virginia coach Billy
McCann called Thackston “a fine
ball player.”

McHenry describes Thackston as
“a smart little cookie. He’s quick,
he’s cocky, and he’s a good ball
handler.”

At 5-9 Thackston is small for a
college basketball player, but he
makes up for what he lacks in size
with hustle, daring, and fight.

 

events, and Spring and Final dances.
These and many other events are
covered by and preserved in the two
weekly editions of the Ring-tum
Phi.

Fred Walker: Individualist

(Continued from page 2)

 

 

 

 

Realizing how hard it is for us,
here at school, to keep those at home
informed, the Ring-tum Phi would
like to offer a special rate of $2.50
for the balance of the semester in
order that parents, friends, alumni
and any incoming freshmen may be
kept in closer contact with the
school.

We would encourage you to send
in your subscription as soon as pos-
sible in order that all the second
semester issues be sent. We will be
glad to include back issues as long
as they hold out. Everyone certainly
should spend 10 cents an issue to
keep his parents and others informed
on the school.

The attached form may be filled
out and mailed to Box 899, Lexing-
ton, Va., or it may be given to either
Huntley Biggs—SAE or Pete Age-
lasto—Phi Kappa Psi. The payment
of $2.50 may be made now or a
bill could be sent to your parents.

AONE REEE ERROR REE ROOAR ERE RAEREEEEESESEEEESEEEOOEOD®
SORES REOEEOHAEHERHAEHEESEO SEO REOEEEEEAEEOEEAEESESEESSRESOHEOREOD

Payment: Cash
Or send bill to:

Rae

 

 

down more of our conversation with
one of the last of the individuals but
it’s probably better that way. Too
much exposure to individuals might
be a bad influence. Look what hap-
pened to Graham Morison.

 

Cagers Have 7-11 Mark
(Continued from page 3)

27 of 71 shots—a 39.4 percentage.

E&H made 25 of 79 shots for 31.7

per cent.

The difference was at the free
throw line where E&H made 18 of 27
attempts and W&L converted only
five of 13.

The loss made W&L’s final record
7-11. Last year’s team posted a

2999999990009 9900000 0008

NEW TOWN INN
Short Orders—Lunches
Catering to Students

 

PREP

Berge rherfe fore ese nfesferge

Eee rhe oho ene ste she nte noe erte ote oe serene ode sore orks
COCCCOCHSSEEOELESELOOEEE

 

° .
° TEXACO °
: Super Service Station :
e Lexington, Virginia °
ca Corner Main and Nelson °

 

 

Waggy’s Jewelers
35 S. Main Street
Phone HO 3-4121

THE HOME OF QUALITY

hittin tainted tina ielinnin ini

 

SUN.-MON.

COLUMBIA PICTURES
presents

in the HALL BARTLETT production

THE
youn MEN

Written, Produced and
Directed by HALL BARTLETT

 

 

 

WE FEATURE

HEAD SKIS.../

THE MOST TALKED ABOUT
SKI ON EVERY SLOPE... HEAD
EVERYWHERE IN THE WORLD.

Frantz Supply Company
1209 Colorado Street

Salem, Virginia
DUpont 9-3340

 

 

 

 

THE COLLEGE INN

The Best Food in Town

American and Italian

Catering to the Students, Faculty,
and Towns People

OPEN SUNDAYS

 

 

“Chet Huntley Reporting” will pre-

Sunday, Feb. 26 on the NBC-TV Net-
work (5:30 p.m. EST).

Dr. Maurice H. Albertson, who was
appointed by the International Coop-

survey group, will report on its pro-
posals for the establishment of the
Corps. Dr. Albertson’s report will be
released to the public a day after the
NBC-TV program.

The Peace Corps would be a non-
government organization to utilize
young Americans with special skills
and abilities to aid the economic
growth of underdeveloped countries.

Allen Grant

Distinctive academic work by a
Washington and Lee University alum-
nus at Rensselaer Polytechnic Insti-
tute has resulted in a gift of $1,000 in
unrestricted funds to Washington and
Lee from the International Nickel
Company of New York, President
Fred C. Cole has announced.

President F. E. Allen of Internation-
al Nickel informed President Cole that
Edward A. Corcoran of South Rich-
mond Hill, N. Y., a 1960 graduate, has
been awarded the Inco 3-2 Combined
Study Program Scholarship at Ren-
sselaer. It is the practice of the com-
pany to award a companion grant of
$1,000 to the liberal arts college from
which the student in the combined
study program transferred.

 

 

McLin Column

(Continued from page 2)
reactions of the Communist Powers,
then he is unlikely to be very much

President
America;
world.”

Kennedy

policies for Loas and the Congo will
be forthcoming are well-received
here. Even in the traditionally criti-
cal eyes of Britain, there is a recog-
nition that America may be growing

 

 

HICKMAN’S ESSO

South Main Street
HO 3-2024

nlite ta iia ia ii aia

sent an exclusive preview report of
the proposed Peace Corps and how it
would affect today’s college students

eration Administration to head the

more successful (than Eisenhower).
can govern
he cannot govern the

Recent indications that new U.S.

Chet Huntley To Present Youth Corps Preview
On Proposed Peace Corps and Its Effect On College

They would work on an active basis in
the countries, concentrating on edu-
cational, community development and
health and sanitation programs.

In his televised report, Dr. Albert-
son will discuss selection of workers,
what skills and abilities will be sought,
salaries to be paid, and what pre-
training will be required of those
chosen. He will also point out the in-
ternational reaction to the U.S. plan.
Dr. Albertson is director of the Re-
search Foundation of the Colorado
State College.

 

UCA Plans Discussions
(Continued from page 1)

on campuses throughout the country.
In 1959, he was the speaker for the
W&L Religious Emphasis Week.
Having been a student under him for
six years while working on a Ph.D.,,
Dr. Hodges regards Dr. Beach as one
of the most qualified authorities in
the interpretation of Christian eth-
ics and theology.

Dr. Hodges has initiated these dis-
cussions in an effort for several
of the more serious-minded students
to get together informally to examine
how Christianity applies to college
life. Dr. Hodges has emphasized
that he will serve only to officiate
and that the bulk of the discussion will
come from the students themselves.
The studies are to be carried on for
the first half of the semester.

Ashley Wiltshire, DTD sophomore
and Secretary of the UCA, has been
elected chairman of the new seminar.

 

 

Dr. Cole Receives Degree From Union College

(Continued from page 1)

probably we owe even more to the
development of the gas engine and its
use in the automobile than we do to
World War I. For the automobile and
the hard surface roads which it forced
us to build have been very powerful
forces indeed in binding us together.
The roads probing into the most re-
mote areas drew together people here-
tofore isolated.”

 

Students Pass Bar Exams

Dean Light of the Law School has
announced that three students and
two graduates of Washington and
Lee’s Law School have passed the
Virginia State Bar examination. The
three students are Paul X Bolt, John
Page Garrett and Kenneth O. Hunt-
ingdon. George Fralin, LL.B., and
William E. McLaughlin, LL.B., also

Commenting upon the rapid indus-
trial and economic growth now tak-
ing place in the South, Governor Dar-
den pointed out that the area still
trails in actual income. Needed most,
he said, “...is steady improvement in
our system of education. The skills re-
quired by a modern industrial state
cannot take root and flourish in a
population plagued with illiteracy.
Great strides are being made to ov-
ercome this handicap...and another
handicap which is much more insid-
ious and damaging—the education of
a population below its capacity ...We
need a first rate school system...
primarily because it makes for compe-
tency and for a richer and fuller life
for each individual.”

 

 

TOLLEY’S PHARMACY
Prescriptions Filled

 

 

 

 

 

passed the exam which is given twice Immediately
a year by the Bar Association of PURCHASE DRUGS
Virginia. The examination will be HO 3-2211
offered again at the end of June.
FORMAL WEAR BROWN’S
CLEANING

 

and
Complete Formal Accessories

The
COLLEGE TOWN

 

 

 

 

Hamric and Sheridan
JEWELERS
Watch and Jewelry Repair
Hand Engraving and Class Rings
HO 3-2022

 

 

 

We obe oe rbe oho nde nde ode fe ofe ofeode oho nfo rte ne ode ole ode olerke fe ofeole

 

WORKS
We Call for and Deliver
24 Hour Service
Student agents in the
dormitory and fraternities
HO 3-2013 14 Randolph St.

 

CALL BY NUMBER
and Save Time
LEXINGTON
TELEPHONE CoO.

We ofeoge lente she ndeokeoferte
aXe Mo Me Me Be ste Ba Me Me Ba Me Ma Bo Bete Ma ite Me Ba Bele Bate Te te Bate te te te te tate

%
%
+
%
%
%
%

SPENCER

General Tire
536 E. Nelson Street

 

$Dodge and Dodge Dart?

and Lancer
America’s First Fine
ECONOMY CAR
*

Rockbridge Motor Co.
INC.

Phone HObart 3-3146

(7

Best in Tires
GENERAL

Best in Recapping
Kraft Tread

New and Used Tires
FOR COMPACT CARS

 

 

 

 

 

wera

Baker
Ford Sales

BETTER DEALS

CLEARANCE
of lot for 1961 Models

NEW AND
USED CARS

Highway 60 East

Tar gt Et tat OE ae ES Ee ae a a a EE ee ee Se ee Se ee ee
ete Be Me se Ne ce Me Me Sa Me Me Ma aMe Me ste Me ae Me she se athe ste she she ste te te he the te te tee
Be lh le ke ek he he he he le ih hh le le le he ih ile ie le le lie ie le le lo

he te ate he he Me ate he
wT TCCr eS

 

 

 

 

Lexington
Laundro Matic

209 S. Main

*

HAND IRONED
SHIRTS
Dry Cleaning
Service

for your convenience

 

 

 

DIXON’S

ESSO SERVICE CENTER
ROUTE 60 EAST IN LEXINGTON

Across from the White Top Resturant
HO 3-4214

Wash, Grease, Lube, Road Service
Charge Accounts Welcome

 

 

 

 

NEW

Underpass Esso

FORMERLY GOODBAR’S ESSO

W&L Students Welcome

Washing
Polishing

Lubrication

CHECK OUR PRICES

Owner—Bruce Dixon

Tires
Batteries

Accessories

Operator—Bobby Breedlove

)

 

 

 

 
 

TUESDAY
Edition

Che Ring-tiun Phi

Washington and Lee Semi-Weekly Newspaper

TUESDAY
Edition

 

Volume LXI

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA, FEBRUARY 28, 1961

Number 38

 

__— TAPPED FOR Pl BETA KAPPA

 

Doctor Junkin
Paints Tapestry
For Troub Phy |

By HENRY M. STROUSS

The splendor of a medieval court has
been recreated by Dr. Marion Junkin
for the Troubadour production of
Pirandello’s “Henry IV.” The play
which involves a contemporary Italian
nobleman who believes himself to be
the 11th century German Emperor
Henry IV will be presented next
Tuesday through Friday evenings
(March 7-10) at 8:30.

The psychological realism necessary
for an effective rendering of “Hen-
ry IV” has resulted in one of the most
elaborate stage settings ever used in a
Troubadour production. The settings
are designed around reproductions of
famous llth century tapestries that
have been adapted from the originals
by Dr. Junkin, head of the W&L Fine
Arts Department, and painted by Ted
Oldham and Frank D’Lauro using a
special painting technique on burlap.

 

A tapestry from the well known Reproducing 11th Century tapestries for the upcoming Sveiesiens play “Henry IV” are art directors Ted Old-

“Unicorn” group, on display at the
Cloisters in New York City, depicting*

ham and Frank D’Lauro.

 

peasent huntsmen with their dogs,
setting out in pursuit of the unicorn
serves as the backdrop for the entire
scene, The center of action is the im-
perial throne covered by a baldachin
of imported gold and white brocade.
The throne is flanked by two life-size
portraits painted by Dr. Junkin of
Robert Allen, playing the title role,
and Susan Howard, portraying his
fiancee. These portraits contrast with
the tapestries as they are done in con-
temporary style, in keeping with a
development in the play’s plot.

The setting is complimented by bat-
tleflags of German city-states cut and
sewn from brightly colored fabrics.

A second tapestry is used for the
scene changes in the play. It repre-
sents a medieval court scene with the
lords and ladies gathered around a
fountain indulging in a musical after-
noon.

Seats for the production of “Henry
IV” may be reserved by calling the
Troubadour box office (HO 3-2814)
between 2-6 p.m. or 7-8 p.m. Tickets
will also be sold at the door.

 

‘Sit-Ins’ Discussion Set

By UCA For Coming Week

The University Christian Associa-
tion is sponsoring a panel discussion
on the “sit-in” problem next Tues-
day night, March 7. The program is
planned for 7 p.m. at the Student
Union.

Dr. Hodges, faculty advisor for
the UCA seminar series, said, “The
sit-in question is a matter which
we need to face, it seems to me,
no matter what our position on the
matter may be.”

Hodges mentioned that the UCA
plans to present all sides of the ques-
tion through a four or five man panel.
There will be a representative of
the legal, segregationist, and inte-
grationist point of view. The pros-
pective members of the panel have
been contracted, and the completed
list will be released later this week.

Dr. Hodges added that all W&L
students and faculty are invited.

Debate Team
Wins 3 Awards

A Washington and Lee University
debate team composed solely of
freshmen won three of 12 individual
speaking awards given at the Mt.
Mercy Varsity Invitational Debate
Tournament in Pittsburgh Saturday.

Thirteen colleges took part in the
tourney. Only Duquesne University,
with all four of its undefeated
trophy-winning team receiving rec-
ognition, gained more individual
honors than Washington and Lee.

Washington and Lee’s team, the
only all-freshman entry, was com-
posed of William A. Noell, Jr., Blue-
field, W. Va.; Alfred E. Eckes, Jr.,
Bradford, Pa. John W. Clark, Jr.,
Birmingham, Ala; and John H.
Kirkley, Atlanta, Ga.

Coach of the Washington and Lee
debaters is William W. Chaffin, in-
structor in English, under whose di-
rection debating has experienced a
resurgence of interest on the Lex-
ington campus.

 

 

SWMSFC

Rehearsals For ‘Heads or Tails’
Begun By Final Cast Members

By RICHARD CRUSE

The cast for the 1961 SWMSFC
Musical is finally set according to
Steve Danzansky, director. The cast
took two weeks to settle because of
some students’ inability to keep up
with rehearsal schedules.

Danzansky said that this year’s
cast is one of the best he has ever
worked with. Cal de Coligny is
playing the lead role of Marcus, the
play’s hero. In the female lead is
Debra Doherty, a sophomore at
Sweet Briar, playing Lysistrata.

Andy Leonard, Lambda Chi soph-
omore, has the comedy lead of
Gallupolonus. Opposite Leonard will
be Nancy Duncan, a junior at Sweet

Briar, playing a Spartan girl.

The second leads are John Towler
as Tiresias, Chris Christy playing
Myrrhine, and Firth Speigel as Ci-
nesias. Other second leads are Anne
Houghton as Chloe, Tommy Andrews
as Creon, and Valeria Elbrick play-
ing Electra. Phil Booth plays Crito,
an Athenian general.

The members of the Council are
Ned Ames, Windy Weed and Brack
Dew. Two more attendants upon
Callupolonus are Delphius and Phi-
dippides played respectively by Pete
Traeger and Pete Alford.

Other members of the cast include
Ron Alenstein (Nepsus), Bart

 

Chamberlain (Philo), and Dave Mun-

 

LL ee

Carmichael’s Dancing School

Closes To ‘Drunk Last Night’

The name “Ring-tum Phi” sounds
more like a yell than the name of
a college paper. It should. It was.

Back in 1897, one of the Generals’
yells went like this:

Ring-tum Phi
Stickeri-bum
We're hot stuff
From Lexington.
Rah! Rah! Rah!
White and Blue
Whoopla, whoolpa!
W. L.
Not only was that a college yell

back in 1897, but it was the only one
Washington and Lee had.

So, naturally or not, when J. Sam
Slicer and Gordon R. Houston
founded the paper in that year they
chose the name Ring-tum Phi. It was
also picked to signify the “Voice of
the Student Body.”

The two Ring-tum Phi founders |

had little financial troubles in that
day and time. Advertisements were
plentiful. Local merchants found
their ads well-read because the
editors often slipped in such fact
gems as this one:

“Found—in front of Dr. Howe's,
shoe, number 3 1/2. Having a long
tongue it is supposed to be of
feminine gender.—R. E. L.

The “Ring-tum Phi” yell was dis-
earded in 1900 but the paper has
continued under that name to today.

The fourteenth issue of the Ring-

tum Phi was published on Saturday,
Jan. 15, 1898. This was after The
Southern Collegian had been estab-
lished, for the lead article in that edi-
tion described what articles would
appear in the forthcoming Collegian.

A news story on the third page
of this edition is headlined “Miss
Carmichael’s Dancing Class Closes

with a Flourish.” The article goes
on to say:

“Saturday evening, Dec. 11, the
most brilliant event of the season
took place when Miss Carmichael
| Bave her last lesson in the dancing
| hall on Randolph Street. The rooms
were tastefully decorated with cut
| flowers and growing plants. At 8
o'clock Miss Anderson took her
place at the piano, and to the in-
spring strains of ‘Drunk Last
Night,’ the class entered the room
led by Miss Laura Tucker. The young
lides were in fancy dress, repre-
senting flowers.”

Another story—this one buried
on the fourth page with all the
ads—told of a New Year’s party.
“The New Year’s German given by
the Cotillion Club on Friday was
one of the most delightful we have
ever held. The dancing was so in-
spiring that even after the second
“Home Sweet Home,” one person
was so full of irrepressible spirits
as to make a hundred yards dash
across the campus to the delight
of all beholders.”

Such was life at Washington and
Lee just before the turn the cen-
tury, as reported by Edition Number
14 of the Ring-tum Phi.

The Ring-tum Phi today has a
circulation of nearly 1500. It’s sub-
scribers include students, faculty,
alumni, parents of students and
friends of the university.

The newspaper is published semi-
weekly, on Tuesday and Friday.
Each staff is headed by a different
editor.

One business staff serves both edi-
tions. Ads are solicited from Lex-
ington merchants and national com-
panies. Over the years the Ring-tum
Phi has built up a faithful clientele

 

 

of local advertisers.

 

roe (Antilles). The Spartan general
will be played by Robin Wood, the
Spartan herald by Ed Croft, and
the Athenian herald by Stuart Yoffe.

The Men’s Chorus consists of Bill
Fidler, Bart Chamberlain, John
Winebrenner, Dave Streetman, Herb
Solomon, Bruce Whelihan, Dave
Peters, Phil Booth, Windy Weed,
John Tyler, Ron Alenstein, Dave
Munroe, and Ned Ames.

Women’s Chorus

The Women’s Chorus is composed
of Chris Christy, Ann Houghton,
Valerie Elbrick, Chris Devol, Char-
lotte Turner, Angie Castella, Emily
Maxwell, Cheri Fitzgerald, Windy
Wilkins, and Peggy Johnson.

Commenting on the cast, Dan-
zansky said, “I am very proud and
excited about this year’s cast, even
more so than last year at this time.
We are working with a larger num-
ber of people, but everyone is work-
ing so hard and carrying out his
part, no matter how small, in such a
professional manner that the time ap-
pears to fly by and the rehearsals
are carried out smoothly. Two ex-
amples of dedication afforded the
show this year are that no one has
missed a rehearsal and everyone is
working outside on their parts.”

Danzansky Experienced

Danzansky also cited Andy Leon-
ard who had his appendix removed
a week ago Monday yet showed up
for rehearsal that Friday against the
advice of his doctor, but as Danzan-
sky puts it, “on the advice of his
own dedication and feeling for the
show.”

Danzansky has had plenty of ex-
pierence running a musical. Last
years SWMSFC Musical, “The Can-
non’s Mouth,” was directed by Dan-
zansky. Last summer he attended
Catholic University in Washington,
where he took music composition
and theory courses in preparation
for writing this year’s show. He has
also been active in the Troubadour
Theatre and Radio Washington and
Lee.

His experience in dramatics in-
cludes work in summer stock thea-
ters, and many other student pro-
ductions. He is also Washington and
Lee’s head cheerleader ,a member of
the Concert Guild Board, and a
Dean’s List student.

Danzansky gained national recog-
nition when Richard Coe, columnist
for the Washington Post, mentioned
his work in writing and directing
“The Cannon’s Mouth.”

Proceeds of the show go to the
Student War Memorial Scholarship
Fund. Last year over 1,000 people
attended the three-day run of “The
Cannon’s Mouth.” A $200 donation
was received from an anonymous
supporter after seeing the show.

 

7 One Junior, Four Law Students
Included In 50th Tap Ceremony

Sixteen Washington and Lee students were named to Phi
Beta Kappa, national honorary scholastic fraternity, last night.
The names of the new men were released today by Dr. L. J.
Desha, secretary of W&L’s Gamma chapter of Virginia.

Included in the list are 11 academic seniors, four law sen-

 

Saturday Review Article

| By Fishwick Praises Lee

But Knocks Today’s South

An article by Dr. Marshall Fishwick,
professor of American studies at
Washington and Lee, on “Robert E.
Lee: The Guardian Angel Myth,” ap-
pears in the March 4 issue of the Sat-
urday Review.

Dr. Fishwick describes the reverence
in which General Lee’s name has been
held in the South since the War Be-
tween the States. Says Dr. Fishwick,
“Robert E. Lee was the most remark-
able man the American South has pro-
duced. Others were more versatile, in-
telligent, learned, and articulate, but
Lee has been the most influential. Un-
successful as a soldier he was turned
into a saint. Now even those whose
Union he almost detroyed reverence
him. The man who could not save the
Confederacy as a general now hovers
over it like a guardian angel.”

Dr. Fishwick argues that the South
has been guilty of myopia. He finds the
South’s refusal to cope with her own
particular problems contrary to the
spirit General Lee manifested as presi-
dent of Washington College. “Rather
than re-enacting Confederate battles,
the South should enact laws that
would stop patential battles from tak-
ing place in our own time... General
Lee would have seen the need for a
new strategy instantly; guardian angel
Lee never will.”

Dr. Fishwick surveys the rapidly
changing condition in international
affairs and contemporary scholarship
and concludes “I prefer to think that
in our day, as in his, he would think
not in terms of defense but offense. If
our South be as bold as his was and
as willing to risk everything for de-
cent and honorable principles, she
might become a challenge rather than
an enigma to the free world.”

Calyx Elections
Set For March 13

Interviews will be held on Monday,
March 13 to determine the editor and
business manager of the 1962 Calyx.

The interviews will be conducted by
the Publications Board in the Student
Union at 5:00 p.m.

All juniors and seniors are eligible.
No experience is required.

To be eligible for the positions, a
student must either have an over-all
grade point ratio of 1.0 or a 1.0 for the
last semester.

The Publications Board stated that
no editor or business manager shall be
succeeded by any man who is a mem-
ber of the same social fraternity to
which the incumbent belongs.

EC NOTICE

Cy Painter has been selected to
fill the vacancy on the Assimilation
Committee. Painter is a PiKA
junior.

 

 

 

Notices

All varsity and freshman ath-
letes for winter sports are to re-
turn to Physical Education classes
on March 1,

Due to the response at W&L
and Lexington to the announced
speech by Arizona Senator Barry
Goldwater, the address will be
given in Doremus Gymnasium at
8 p.m. tomorrow, not in Lee Chapel
at 7:30 as originally announced.

There will be a meeting Thurs-
day night at 7 in Doremus Gymna-
sium of all people who wish to
try out for the Varsity Tennis
Team. All interested persons are
urged to be present.

 

All people interested in copying
music for the SWMSFC musical
should contact Gene Johnson at

 

the Delt House.

 

kiors, and one junior.

Academic seniors elected are as
follows: John Alfred Broaddus, Jr.,
Sigma Nu from Richmond, Va.,
A.B.; Roy Carpenter, Bryan, Texas,
B.S.; Grayfred Betha Gray, Rich-
mond, Va., A.B.;and Henry Howze
Harrell, Sigma Chi from Sabot, Va.,
A.B.

Also David Werner Haslett, Lambda
Chi from Hickory, North Carolina,
A.B.; James Lyman Hughes, Rich-
mond, Virginia, A.B.; Courtney Roller
Mauzy, Jr. SA.E. from Charlotte,
North Carolina, B.S.; Stephen Herbert
Paley, Z.B.T., Kensington, Maryland,
B.S.; Milford Frank Schwartz, Pr., Pi
Ep, Washington, D.C., A.B.; John
Harvey Soper, Kansas City, Missouri,
A.B.; and James Allen Vann, III, Phi
Psi from Birmingham, Alabama, A.B.

The four law students elected are:
John Page Garrett, Portsmouth, Vir-
ginia; Nicholas Harrington Rodriquez,
Magnolia, Delaware; Emil Joseph
Sulzberger, Jr., Phoebus, Virginia; and
Hugh Vernon White from Holland,
Virginia. Both White and Rodriguez
received their LL.B. in the 1961 Jan-
uary graduating class.

The only junior elected is Joseph
Leonard Goldstein, Z.B.T. from
Kingstree, South Carolina.

Phi Beta Kappa, the oldest Greek-
letter fraternity in the United States,
was founded at William and Mary in
1786. Secrecy was abandoned years
ago, and since 1846 the society has
been strictly an honorary scholastic
fraternity. Membership in Phi Beta
Kappa has long been one of the high-
est academic distinctions.

The purpose of the organization is to
recognize and encourage scholarship
and cultural interests. Qualifications
for membership are high scholarship,
liberal culture, and good character.

 

The Phi Beta Kappa Calyx pic-
ture will be taken Friday, March 3,
at 1 o’clock, in front of Washington
College.

 

Since its founding fifty years ago,
Gamma of Virginia has conferred
membership on students with out-
standing academic records. Originat-
ing with ten people, one of whom was
Dr. Robert W. Dickey, now W&L pro-
fessor of physics, the W&L Phi Beta
Kappa chapter has over 600 living
members. In recent years, juniors who
have exceptionally distinguished rec-
ords, not below the requirement for
summa cum laude (2.75), have been
selected for membership.

Election of academic seniors is based
upon seven semesters of work, includ-
ing the freshman year. “Election of
LL.B. candidates is based primarily
upon law grades but previous academ-
ic records are now considered,” Dr.
Desha said.

It is understood that Gamma of Vir-
ginia considers each graduating class
by itself and each individual elected.
Election is not based on any fixed per-
centage of the class and there is no
strict numerical requirement for mem-
bership.

At last night’s meeting of the Gam-
ma Chapter, besides making the selec-
tion of new members, the chapter re-
elected Dr. Fitzgerald Flournoy presi-
dent of the local chapter and Dr.
James G. Leyburn vice-president. Dr.
L. J. Desha also was re-elected to his
post of secretary-treasurer. Present
student members of Phi Beta Kappa
include J. E. Kocen, A. W. McThenia,
Jr., Charles W. Miller, W. W. Moore,
G. P. Pardington, and B. H. Vitsky.
Thirty-four members of the faculty
are members of Phi Beta Kappa.

 

 

NOTICE

All Washington and Lee students
interested in becoming varsity la-
crosse managers this semester are
requested to contact coach Bob
McHenry immediately at Doremus
Gym.

Several managers are needed ur-
gently. Students enrolled in Physical
Education will be excused for the
balance of the semester.

The Commerce Fraternity will
hold its monthly meeting tonight
at 7:30 in Newcomb Hall.

 
Page 2

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

Che KRing-tum Phi
Tuesday Edition

Goldwater’s Speech

Tomorrow night, the students and faculty
of this campus and the interested residents of
the surrounding area will have the opportunity
to hear one of America’s leading political
figures speak in Lexington. Senator Barry
Goldwater, conservative Republican senator
from Arizonia, will speak in Doremus Gym-

Webster Unabridged

 

The fraternity exists for the purpose of
stimulating interest in political science, and in
addition to it’s weekly discussions on subjects
of current political interest, it sponsors an an-
nual visit to the campus of at least one of
America’s leading political figures. We con-
gratulate them on this year’s choice.

Although Pi Sigma Alpha is the official

‘Collegian’ Fails
To Attract
Literary Talent

By ED WEBSTER

newspaper was called the Ring-tum
Phi, McCrum’s was called McCrum’s
and the campus literary magazine
was called The Southern Collegian.

Sixty-three years ago, the campus

These little tidbits, gleaned from

nasium at 8 p.m.
We trust that the citizens

munity will avail themselves of this opportun-
ity to hear Senator Goldwater when he speaks
on the question of federal aid to education

in the states. The talk, which

scheduled for Lee Chapel, has been trans-
ferred to the Gym to accommodate the large

of this com-

was orginally

crowd which is expected. A skeleton poll of
the houses on campus indicated that over fifty

per cent of the students expect to hear the
senator's speech. It will be interesting to see
the campus response to a non-compulsory as-

sembly of this nature.

Senator Goldwater’s visit to the University
is being sponsored by Pi Sigma Alpha, the na-
tional honorary political science fraternity.
This fraternity was founded at the University
of Texas in 1920 and came to the Washington
and Lee campus in 1952. At present the mem-
bership of its 89 chapters is about fifteen thous-

and.

When Robber Steals From Thief

der what will be the fate of father’s souped-up
Social Security when junior gets out in the
world. Not even President Kennedy knows
the future costs of sickness and health benefits,
that father now legislates for his future taking.
Junior may even feel it is his moral duty to
pass a law that unmeets all those once unmet

The following is an editorial from
the Wall Street Journal of Feb. 24.

As our Mr. John Chamberlain was one of
the first to note, a strongly conservative trend
is sweeping the nation’s collegians. Today’s
campus radical is more likely to be radically
conservative than oriented toward the left

wing, as was his father.

Well, the pendulum swings.

U.S.-Soviet Relations

 

Must We Cite Similarities?

By HUGO HOOGENBOOM

President Kennedy said, in his
inaugural address, that we and the
leaders of the Soviet Union should
concentrate not on those things
which separate us but on _ those
things which bind us (or words to
that effect).

Fatuous remarks such as_ that
should be challenged. A good deal
of emphasis should be placed on
those things which separate the
Soviet Union from the United States.

First is Lubianka Prison. This is
where thousands have been tortured
to death with the direct conniving
of the central Soviet government
through it secret police arm. This
place is wrong, and a government
that maintains such a place as a
matter of policy is wrong and can

of the visiting

on her campus. Merle Miller, John Ciardi,
Graham Morrison and now Barry Goldwater
and Arnold Toynbee are among the most out-

standing.

sponsor of Goldwater’s visit, we understand
that there are two men on campus who have
been especially instrumental in arranging for
the Senator’s speech. These men, Dr. Gunn
and Stan Cook, are due special recognition for

bringing a man of Senator Goldwater’s caliber
and reputation to our campus.

Washington and Lee has been unusually
fortunate this year in the caliber and number

It is unfortunate that the members of the
student body do not take more advantage of
the opportunities which are made available to
them to hear these men, all of whom are out-
standing in their respective fields.

 

 

needs.

But if the aging Pop then yells “robber,”’

And we won- won’t the son

only be an enemy.

Second is the concentration camps
maintained through the Soviet
Union. These are the places in
which political prisoners are sent
to work under conditions more
ghastly than those in an any Georgia
prison camp. These places exist by
direction of the central government
of the Soviet Union for the express
purpose of stifling opposition to the
regime at any cost.

Third is the suppression of Dr.
Zhivago and the imprisonment of
Pasternak’s friends. This was done
by the central government express-
ly to prevent any further heresy in
the Soviet Union.

Fourth is the crushing of Hungary,
done under the direction of Nikita
Kruschev, by pouring in his Mongol

 

National, Tribal Interests Conflict
In Touchy African Power Vacuum

By GEORGE BIRDSONG

(Editor’s note: the following ar-
ticle is the result of a week’s con-
certed study of the African situa-
tion. This study was held for four
days in New York and three days
in Washington and was centered
around the theme of “The Emerg-
ing African Nations and Their ef-
effect on the United Nations and
U.S. Foreign Policy.”)

The African continent is a vast
land mass which only a few years
ago was considered of little or no
immediate importance. Today that
same African continent is a critical
area. Secretary General Hammar-
skjold has referred to Africa as
a possible powder keg for the cold
war if the conditions in the Congo
continue to deteriorate.

Realizing that Africa is of major
importance one might seek to under-
stand the forces which are inter-
woven to form the complex African
situation. The basic issues are na-
tionalism, anti-colonialism, tribal-
ism, Pan-Africanism, and the prob-
lem of the “power vacuum” and
how will it be filled.

Anti-Colonialism

The issues of nationalism and anti-
colonialism are very closely related,
as the former is to a great extent
an expression of the anti-colonial
feeling. To the educated African
nationalism, independence, and self-
determination are a natural result
of a human being’s desire for self-

 

respect, dignity and equality. For
this reason Africans are willing to
die for their national integrity.

Futhermore, they do not want
someone else tell them when they
are ready for independence. “Who
are you to tell me when I am ready
for independence,” is a typical Af-
rican reaction. It may be that Bel-
gium paid too much attention to
similar statements and granted the
Congo independence too quickly.

A few years ago only Egypt, Li-
beria, and Ethopia were independent.
The independent Union of South
Africa which is virtually a white
dictatorship with the apartheid
racial discrimination policy. The rest
of Africa was under the direction of
the metropole countries... Britain,
France, Portugal, Belgium.

After the 1960 “African indepen-
dence year,” however, there were
twenty-seven independent _ states,
and the total may extend over fifty
before the drive for independence
is completed.

To the African, anti-colonialism
means the end of colonial rule in
Africa. The face of the colonial
powers has been Western, and the
remaining colonial powers in the
African’s mind are still Western, as
for example France in Algeria,
Britain in North and South Rho-
desia, and Portugal in Mozambique
and Angola. The Union of South
Afriea is also considered a colonial
power by some Africans.

(Continued on page 4)

 

 

*

lecturers who have appeared

be entitled to answer “‘thief.’’

troops to burn and kill the only
men in the West who would fight for
their freedom.

These are the things which sepa-
rate the Soviet Union and the
United States. They are also for-
gotten.

Surely there is evil in agonized
deaths of the maimed men in the
cellars of Lubianka Prison, in the
crushing of mind and body in the
slave camps of Siberia, in the stifling
of the spirit of Pasternak, in the
murder of Hungary. For if there is
no evil here, there is no evil.

This evil separates us, for they
use men like animals, to be worked
and slaughtered as circumstances
order, and we try to let men remain
men. How can we ignore these
things?

And if we have fallen so that we
can ignore evil, how can we ignore
the threat to ourselves from a na-
tion whose every effort since it’s
beginning has been, without excep-
tion, directed at our destruction,
whose latest excrescence of evil was
threatened to to bury us and all we
hold to be good and just?

If we have fallen so that the
threat of death is enough to make
us surrender, then to what puropse
did the Spartans stand at Thermop-
olae, the French at Poitiers and the
Poles at the gates of Vienna.

The Soviet Union is evil, immoral
and wrong. There can be no greater
difference than that. This must be

a Ring-tum Phi dated January 15,
1898, serve to point up the great
amount of tradition and continuity
that are found in W&L’s present
institutions. A closer reading of this
old paper shows that many of these
institutions, despite their use of the
same names, have changed radically
over the passing decades.

Take the Southern Collegian, for
example. In 1898, the newly reno-
vated Collegian was primarily a
means of student literary expres-
sion,

According to the R-t P’s review,
the featured article of that Novem-
ber’s Collegian was the text of an
address given by one Mr. Bullitt on
“The New Woman.”

Mr. Bullitt, says the review, pro-
phesied “that ‘The New Woman’ will
pass from the arena ‘unwept, un-
honored, and unsung’ and that her
place ‘will be filled by the more
feminine sisters, who will move on-
ward and upward until they shall
have reached that pinnacle of per-
fection thus far attained by none
save by the fairest of the daughters
of the South.”

History wasted no time in prov-
ing Mr. Bullitt a rather poor prog-
nosticator. A more accurate predic-
tion was given by the author of
a poem called “The Twentieth Cen-
tury Girl,” who concluded that this
new creature would never, never
change

Also in this issue of the Col-
legian were a sketch of life in the
nearby hills (which would probably
hold true even today), and two boy-
meets-girl stories. A science fiction
story was followed by a poem on
the beauties of Lexington.

Concluding the magazine were a
biography of one of the alumni and
two book reviews.

* oo *

The content of the 1897 Colle-
gian—with the possible exception
of the studies of feminine foibles—
would probably draw little reader-
ship today. Yet these young auth-
ors were writing in the idiom of
their times, about topics of cur-
rent interest.

More important, the old Collegian
was giving outlet to the talents and
interests of at least nine students
who felt that they had something to
say.

We cannot help contrasting the
Collegian as it once was, with the
Collegian as it has become.

For the past several years, the
school’s only student magazine—our
only outlet for fiction, poetry, and
lengthy articles—has served as a
loose compendium of questionable
humor. It has become something that
is scanned erratically on dance week-
ends, and eventually winds up being
smuggled around the dormitories of
neighboring girls’ schools.

The Collegian has, admittedly, had
its good moments in recent years.
Occasionally the cartoons and photo-
graphs have been original and well-
executed. Occasionally there have
been jokes, of not too ancient vint-
age, which have actually contained
some humor.

In the way of real creative writ-
ing, however, there have been very
few worthwhile efforts.

One cause of this failing may be
that the really conscientious writers
do not care to publish in this maga-
zine. For one thing, their articles
are often butchered into unintel-

 

emphasized.

(Continued on page 4)

 

 

EVER SINCE LUCY

: BURIED MY BLANKET
os {IVE FELT SORT
. OF DIZ2¥..

Mh

   

 

 

 

Nhe helena

ado!

I CANT EVEN EAT......
EVERYTHING TASTES SOUR...

~) !

 

   

 

 

 

 

IT DON'T SEEM TO BE ABLE To
CATCH MY BREATH EITHER... I
FEEL LIKE (M CHOKING...

 

 

 

 

 

By BILL ROBERTS

Gil Bocetti, who was a great
quarterback here and led the 1950
Washington and Lee football team
to the Gator Bowl, was the principal
speaker at the annual banquet at
the end of spring football practice.
Bocetti said he was in favor of
our present de-subsidized football
program. He noted that many alum-
ni were becoming more interested
in the team since we have risen
from the depths of the 1956-58 sea-
sons. But he chose to discuss the
fact that we still do not have very
great support among our alumni
and to suggest some reasons why
crowds have not approached the
size of those seen at Wilson Field
when he was playing.

Bocetti pointed out that much of
the interest evidenced by alumni in
their football team is engendered

Chieftain Vs.
The Sociologists

By PAUL T. WILLIS

The council hall could hardly con-
tain the crowd that morning as the
chief motioned for silence and start-
ed to speak: “As you may be
aware,” he said, “the next few weeks
may be the most important in the
history of our tribe. Several days
from now we shall be visited for the
first time by a group of American
sociologists.”

He paused to let the full import
of this sink in, and to allow the
whispering to die down. After a
moment, the chief continued. “In the
past, perhaps due to some failure of
communications, our tribe has been
sadly neglected. The reason for this
is difficult to understand in the light
of all the doctoral theses being writ-
ten these days. I’ve often looked
with envy, and perhaps a little bit-
terness, on the notoriety given our
neighbors, the Mundagumors and the
Arapesh. Some of you have come to
me and asked ‘what do they have
that we don’t?’, Well my answer to
this is ‘nothing!’ And that, as I see it,
is the whole difficulty.”

There was a quiet, expectant stir in
the room as this sank in. “These so-
ciologists,” he went on, “are more
demanding than in the past. At one
time they could merely describe the
sex customs and the religion, put a
nude woman on the cover, make up
some suggestive title, and the book
would sell.

 

“But not anymore. The college
students are getting more sophis-
ticated these days. In order to
make the sociology books now,
you’ve got to come up with some-
thing diffrent. The same old leg-
ends and rituals just don’t sell any-
more.

“This visit, for which we have
worked so hard, for which we have
spent almost a year’s preparation
in spreading tantalizing rumors, pre-
sents us quite a challenge. Will our
response be adequate?

“We stand, you might say, on the
brink of fame. During the next few
crucial weeks, it will be decided
whether this tribe, dear to our hearts,
shall rise to its rightful place in the
world or once again sink into ob-
livion,

“Later on this evening, I shall ap~
point the final committees. Natural-
ly, we must cover the standard
things, but we must approach them
in a dynamic way. It may be a strain
and an embarrassment to us, but I
feel assured we can endure it for a
while, anyway. Many of us will have
to assume new roles; just remember
that any change in status is not per-
manent, but merely for the duration.

“Starting this evening, I don’t
want to see any of you wearing
those American clothes, and es-
pecially shoes. Walking barefoot
is inconvient, I know, but it is
expected. You’re going to have to
hide the clothes and _ especially
those transistor radios. I’ve arrang-
to mark off an area which we'll
call taboo, where we'll keep every -
thing until the visit is over.

“Another thing, polygamy may
seem an unfair burden for some of
us older men, but it is a sacrifice
we must make for the good of the
tribe.

“Perhaps our most severe test will
come in the field of religion. I don’t
want to see those Bibles lying around.
A special committee has been work-
ing for some time on legends, and
I’m glad to say that we’ve come up
with some good stuff. Those idols
we have out back have been design-
ed to correspond almost exactly with
those found on Easter Island. Natur-
ally, we won't allow them to be in-
spected closely enough to see the
plaster, because they are sacred. If
you get into a really tough spot,

 

 

 

 

 

 

Old Grads Must Face Facts:
Rivalries Of Old Impossible

by the rivalry they have with alumni
of other colleges with whom they
work or associate socially. Wash-
ington and Lee alumni are more
likely to come into contact with
alumni of the University of Virginia,
Virginia Military Institute, and other
Southern Conference and Atlantic
Coast Conference schools than with
alumni of schools on our present
schedule. One major reason is that
the other schools have more alumni,
particularly in Virginia, than Frank-
lin and Marshall, or Sewanee, or
Hampden-Sydney.

Forment New Rivalries

One of the main things to be done
to revive alumni interest in football
at Washington and Lee, according to
Bocetti, is to try to foment these
alumni rivalries with the schools
whom we can meet on the football
field. Bocetti said that he is trying
to do that now and that as the men
in the school now become alumni
that they should try to cultivate
these friendly rivalries.

Bocetti’s fevor on this point is
questionable. He did not seem sure
at all that we would ever win back
the old alumni on this basis. Our
best hope for the future must ap-
parently lie with the men now in
school. They must be the ones to
come back to the school and cheer
on future General teams.

The talk brought to our mind
rather forcefully the fact that Wash-
ington and Lee athletics are still
in a rather sad state. Our unde-
feated football team and the basket-
ball team’s deserving victory over
the Wahoos have been bright spots
this year.

Alumni Appeal

College athletics in America seem
to be committed to a program which
demands that athletic rivalries be
with schools whose alumni will
cherish the competition. These riv-
alries range over more fields than
athletics. Alumni are proud of their
alma mater in many ways—for its
success in intercollegiate athletics,
for its academic standards, and,
although it’s not considered demo-
cratic to say so, for its social stand-
ing.

The Washington and Lee policy
has been, in the words of athletic
director Cy Twombly, “to schedule
the best schools with whom we can
compete.” This is all any student or
alumnus can ask. But we are hand-
icapped in that there are few echools
with our “prestige” in our geogra-
phical area who play on the same
level we do. Washington and Lee
cannot play its classic “Big Six”
schedule in Virginia. Nor can it
schedule out-of-state teams that will
please everyone.

Washington and Lee students and
alumni must live with the fact that
our schedules are never likely to
have the extra-athletic interest that
they had before. It is silly to ex-
pect Washington and Lee men to
foment rivalries with Emory and
Henry men, or Randolph-Macon
men. Many students will feel very
strongly about games with schools
from their home states, as Virgin-
ians do about the Hampden-Sydney
game, or Kentuckians about the
Centre game.

Scheduling Difficult

Mr. Twombly has tried valiantly to
get games with schools like Amherst,
Williams, or Swarthmore. We were
to have had a game with Davidson
this coming football season, on Nov.
18. The game was approved by the
athletic committee here, and the
contract was signed and sent to
Davidson. But at the last minute
Davidson decided to call off the
game.

So we have had difficulty in
scheduling some of the schools
which are often mentioned as part
of a dream conference, of small,
Southern colleges. Sewanee, Centre,
Johns Hopkins (whom we also have
trouble scheduling), Southwestern
in Memphis, and Hampden-Sydney
are among the other schools men-
tioned. We maintain a healthy riv-

(Continued on page 4)

Che Ring-tum Phi

Tuesday Edition

The Ring-tum Phi is published Tues-
day and Friday during the college year.
It is printed 4 the Journalism Labor-
onery Press, ashington and Lee Uni-
versity. The mailing address is Box
899, Lexington, Va,

Entered ag second class matter Sep-
tember 20, 1946 at the Post Office, Lex-
ington, Va., under the act of March
8, 1878.

National Advertising Representative:
The National Advertisers Service, Inc.,
420 Madison Ave., New York, N.Y.

BQ OP, csczssssseoreesscizscesous Rosewell Page, III
Business Manager.,............ Huntley Biggs

Editorial Board

Managing Editor... Bill Roberts
Assistant Managing Editor...
News Editor..
Sports Editor. Steve Guild
Associate Editors........ Lanny Butler, Bill

Smith, Ronnie King
Photography Editor.................. Bill Young

 

 

Bob Bridewell

  
 

 

you can always tell them that
| (Continued on page 4)

Advertising Manager..........Jerome Dattel
Circulation Manager........ Peter Agelesto

   

 

:
:
;
THE RING-TUM PHI

Page 3

 

 

 

 

 

Wrestling captain Sandy Mersereau pursues recalcitrant opponent.

(Photo by Young)

Wrestlers Beat UVa.
To Terminate Season

By DAVE MONTGOMERY

Washington and Lee’s matmen
brought an end to a highly success-
ful season here last night by shut-
ting out the University of Virginia
28-0 and consequently pushing their
overall record to 7-3. It was a dif-
ferent story, however, in the JV
prelim as the Baby Generals col-
lected their only points on a forfeit
in the heavyweight class and bowed
to the Cavaliers, 27-5.

After picking up an easy five
points on a forfeit in the 123 Ib.
class, the Generals went on to
whitewash the Wahoos via decis-
ions by Dave Montgomery (9-2),
Ken Greer (9-3), Sandy Mersereau
(7-4), Dick Albert (5-2), Jud
Babcock (3-1), and Bob Pagano

(9-1) and a pin in 4.40 by freshman
Ed Jansen.

Coach Miller felt that “the boys
really showed their potential last
night,” and believed “that if the team
returns intact next season we should
have an even better record than
a 7-3 mark.”

Captain Sandy Mersereau fa-
cetiously remarked after the
match: “Next year they should be
better. This year, well, good luck
at Hollins or ’Macon.”

As far as the NCAA wrestling tour-
nament in March is concerned, Miller
doesn’t plan to send any entrants
since, “there is really no hope of
holding our own against such teams
as Lehigh, Pitt, Oklahoma, or Mich-

 

igan State.”

 

Swimmers Top Norfolk W&M

Washington and Lee’s swimming
team yesterday closed out its sea-
son with a 54-32 win over the
Norfolk Division of the College of
William and Mary, in the Doremus
Gym pool. The Generals broke
three records in the process, and lost
a fourth on a disqualification.

Elliott Maynard set a new W&L
record in the 200-yard butterfly,
turning in a time of 2:18.5, break-
ing his own record of 1959, 2:21.5.
Co-captain Jim Parker set a pool
record for the 50-yard freestyle,
winning in 49.2 seconds. The old
record, 53 seconds, was set in 1959.
Parker finished the season undefeat-
ed in the 50-yard race. Herb Jahn-
cke set a new W&L record in the
440 freestyle, turning in a time of
5 minutes 18 seconds. The old record,
5:20.4, was also set in ’59.

Norfolk won only two events, the
200-yard individual medley and the

 

 

For those extra pieces

of
FURNITURE

for your room
see our stock
before buying

So
VARNER AND POLE

 

 

 

BROWN’S
CLEANING
WORKS

We call for
and deliver
HO 3-2013 14 Randolph St.

 

 

Radio Hospital

oe
Radio, TV, Phonograph
Sales and Service

*

HO 3-3531

 

 

 

|
|

| diving. They were awarded first
place in the medley relay and the
400-yard freestyle relay when the
W&L teams in those events were
disqualified.

After drying off from a forced
dip in the pool administered by his
happy fish, Coach Norris Eastman
said that he was pleased with the
times his boys turned in, and that
they were close to what he expected.
In his first year as head coach,
Eastman coached the team to a 6-4
record, which included victories over
Roanoke, UVa., Catholic, George-
town, Wake Forest, and Norfolk.

 

 

Green Valley Motel

One Mile North on
U. S. Highway No. 11

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA
HO 3-2195

 

 

Blue-White Teams Tie, 8-8
In Muddy Battle Saturday

The annual intersquad contest
which ended Spring football prac-
tice was held last Saturday amid
rain, sunshine, and snow. The final
outcome of the game between the
Blues and the Whites was an 8-8 tie.

The first score in the game came
on a 60-yard run of the White’s
fullback Tommy Keessee in the 3rd
quarter. However, the Blues followed
quickly in the 4th quarter with a
keeper play by quarterback Steve
Suttle, which tied the score for the
rest of the game.

The only serious injury of the
game came when Terry Fohs, Lit-
tle All-American center, tackled
Keesee on one of his runs. Terry,
who is known for his hard-hitting
knocked himself out on the tackle
and as a result was out for the
rest of the game.

While the elements made it prac-
tically impossible to play any sort
of decent football, the game still
showed where the team stands as of
now. Coach McLaughlin, in discuss-

generally optimistic. In general, last

 

year’s strength, which was princi-
pally the team’s depth, will still hold.
Coach Mac said that “as of right
right now we could fill up the first
two teams with men who have had
varsity experience. This year’s
freshmen show a lot of promise and
we expect to use them a lot next
year.”

Coach McLaughlin said that the
boys they expected to show up well
during Spring practice did not dis-
appoint him, and there were some
unexpected performances. Singled
out among these was the ground
yardage which Ashley, Wiltshire
gathered for the White’s.

As far as the outlook for next
fall, McLaughlin was cautious in
his optimism. He said that “of
course it is hard to top an unde-
feated season, but remember one
of those was a tie and in three of
them we came from behind. All we
can do is wait for next fall.”

Spring practice formally came to
an end with the annual banquet held
in the Commons. Presented at this
banquet were two awards for the
most improved player of the season
and for the most outstanding player
during Homecoming’s game. Chosen
as the most improved player and
presented with the award given by
the Slater System was Chip Day.
Doug Martin received the Ty Rober
award for the most outstanding
player in the Homecoming’s game.

 

he he ake she he che at
ee ee 3

 

whe he he ie oSe he te ale she ale ae ale ale
Oe ee eS eS

%
*

 

 

 

* +
: -
* THE NEW ¢
*
* White T ;
t ite op ;
$ $
* Restaurant :
*% %
*% Bo
Ks
Ks * $
: $
% A personal invitation
+ +
* to the ‘
? ob
: Students :
4
* Try our delicious foods *
_— ;
| Route 60 East *
* +
* *
+ +
sfeofooteoeoto ote oe ogorfestontontengenteodeodeofeofosfeoteoge

 

 

 

 

 

Open a convenient student Checking account
TODAY

at

Rockbridge National Bank

Member Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation

 

 

 

 

We

SEAL

 

%
He Te ede rb oe obo eee ee ode ob oe ede ogee oe oe ode ee oe oe feof nen ode oe fee oer te odeebe odode deo ete

Feature

Dairy Products
“To get the best get Sealtest”

over twenty different products in addition to
delicious Sealtest ice cream

Block and Crushed Ice

Your favorite mixes—Ice Cold

*
Maple-Rock Distributors, Inc.

Phone HO 3-2168

pete otoogeogeoeotententeonteobeteopefeogeoote oe eogee efecto recente ofoogentoegecdootegoofegeogeofeopeteofeodeobeteok

TEST

; x.
ing the outlook for next season, was

 

ee ee ee ee le ee ee lee i ee

ke:

White team halfback Ashley Wiltshire swamped (literally) by Blue tacklers.

Intersquad Contest Ends Spring Football Practice

 

, oe ee
a ® =

  

te AR as

 

(Photo by Young)

 

The Coaches Corner

 

McHenry Reviews Season With Mixed Emotions

The season is over and the “fight-
ing Generals” have posted a 7-11
record—not exceptional by any
means, yet better than most people
expected. It was also the year we
beat the Wahoos!

In my mind, we definitely were
the “fighting Generals,” for more
than once the ball bounced the other
way; instead of letting up the boys
banded together and worked harder.

With only three lettermen re-
turning the outlook was bleak—then
Mike Monier was unable to play
because of a broken leg, Ken Ko-
walski was never at top form be-
cause of various and sundry in-
juries and missed a few games. John
McDowell, who was coming along

Ee rkeofobe oho nfo ole nfo ode oho ee onde nfo teste oe oestengeoterferds
*
RA

: White’s Music}
Store :

(Opposite State Theater)

+
|
.
Phonographs—Hi-Fi

 

Expert Repair Service
>}
5 W. Nelson St. Lexington, Va.
HO 3.3522

See eee ole ole oe oe ode ode ene oho odode ole obo oteoteofenfeatefe stents

eee rbo odo odo oke ode odo fee ert rhe ele fester rterteteterterts

 

good, preferred not to study, so he |

left; and then there was the heart-
breaking one point loss to Chatta-
nooga. Any of these bad _ breaks
could have caused some teams to
quit, but not ours.

Our best games, in retrospect,
were the Sewanee, Chattanooga, and
Randolph-Macon games. Our finest
hour in many a season was the

triumph over Virginia—in that game,
everything we did was right. It cer-
tainly was a great triumph by a
great bunch of boys. The crowd, too,
was tremendous. We had many
standouts at the U.Va. game but the
team was our brightest star.

Everyone is back next year and
the outlook is good IF we can get
(Continued on page 4)

 

ee Oe ee ere ee

 

’
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
+,
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4

Shirt Service as You Like it

Quality Cleaning and Pressing

UNIVERSITY CLEANERS
HO 3-3622

*
“Your Campus Neighbors”

Re oboe rhe esos rho nde oe se ee oe oe ese se eee ee tee eee se ee eee se ne ee oe ne eee ese oe oe oe oe

PRP PP hhh leh

sotto eee obstestee ceo obobetetetebobboooobobobobbobebbobededeobo ob obbobetoboeae

 

 

 

The Southern Inn

Cordially invites you to make this your headquarters for good food
Here you get the best food for the most reasonable prices

Our Specialties:

Steaks, Chicken, Country Ham, and the best sandwiches
in town

Meet your friends here

 

 

 

    
    

THE BATISTE
OXFORD . 4

 

 

 

Ohnmas,

IAAN T

SHIRTMAKERS

The cooling propensities of lightest-weight Batiste are now joined to the
texture and weave of fine Oxford, The result? A cotton conservative that
will stand up to the warmest days in style. Handsomely, comfortably
designed with an authentic button-down collar and short sleeves.

STYLE

Button Down

Tab

COLORS

Blue
White

Linen

te

 

 

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 4

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

Birdsong Views African Problem

(Continued from page 2)

In many cases the Africans also
mean to end the predominant role
of the expatriate power in their
trade, finance, civil service, military,
and educational institutions.

Anti-colonialism furthermore has
a psychological role. Many Africans
feel they must be “against” some-
thing as one of the requirements for
building unity within the new na-

The ‘Collegian’
Then And Now

(Continued from page 2)
ligibility. Moreover, they may fear
that their prize creations will be
degraded by association with liter-
ature that is juvenile or crass.

This dearth of good writing is also
caused by a lack of encouragement
toward promising writers. Apparent-
ly there has been little effort to re-
cruit students who really know how
to write, and who have something to
write about.

The absence of a suitable medium
of expression caused a few students,
led by Grayfred Gray, to organize
their own publication. They hope
to climax their efforts with a literary
magazine this spring.

Such private attempts at expres-
sion should be encouraged, and I
wish them all success. Ideally, how-
ever, students would be able to use
an established and widely circulated
magazine — namely, the Southern
Collegian—for their serious attempts
at poetry, fiction, and humor.

 

 

 

Ee Ne ee Me is

STATE

LEXINGTON, VA.

 

   
   

dae
Released by BUENA VISTA Distribution Co.,

 

 

 

tional state. This feeling may very
likely increase in the future as the
African politicans feel they need
to be “against” something in order
to unite the country.

Tribal Problems

Tribalism enters into the picture
at this point because it is a chal-
lenge to national unity. There are
about 800 tribes throughout Africa
and the African tends to remain
loyal to his tribe and to his tribal
chief rather than give his allegiance
to a new, often incomprehensible
idea of a national state. To further
complicate matters may tribes ex-
tend over national boundaries.

Tribalism is challenged by the
call for unity of Pan-Africanism.
This is a movement to unify Africa
which the Pan-African leaders con-
tend has been “Balkanized” by the
colonial powers, especially on the
East Coast. Africa is probably stuck
for awhile with its present national
setup, but the uniting of territories
is bound to come.

Unity both within the national)
state and of territorial states is made
difficult by the power vacuum pres-
ent in most of Africa. There is a
strong tendency for any leader who
achieves some position of power to
either ban or limit the power of his
opposition.

Futhermore, the rights of citizens
are usually not held above the de-
sire for power and hence there is
little accountability of the govern-
ment to the people. This power
vacuum will be filled by African
actors in the future and the U.S. and
past colonial powers must accept
this fact.

 

 

 

 

mw Be ee

TUES.-WED.-THURS.

 

 

“NEVER LETS UP IN ITS TENSION!” -» » es mane

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

SCOCSSSHSHSOOCOCOSSESOESOOEEE

MYERS
HARDWARE
COMPANY

 

 

LEXINGTON
CLEANERS

Phone HO 3-3813 108 S. Jefferson

 

 

 

College Outlines
Hymarx Outlines
Made Simple Series

PP |

 

WANT TO CUT SHORT THE STUDY???

try our

The Book Shop

W. Washington Street

4

4

4

4

4

4
Barrons Series }
: 4

Data Guides
4

4

4

4

q

4

4

4

4

4

Vocabulary Cards

 

 

Ted’s Steak House

Finest Foods
Choice Meats

Ww
SUNDAY DINNERS

Route 60 Buena Vista

The U. S. Dilemma

The U.S. finds itself in a very
difficult position because the face
of Africa’s enemy (colonialsim) is
Western. All of these colonial pow-
ers are American allies and in fact
are important in the structure of
NATO, our basic defense system.
Hence we must support our Euro-
pean allies.

At the same time, however, we
are trying to exert an influence in
Africa, but the Africans tell us we
must choose to support colonial or
anti-colonial policies. Wanting to
please both Europe and Africa, we
are caught in the middle. This is
the essence of our problem.

We must line up with the as-
pirations of the African nations
or either be shut out of Africa.
Thus we must bridge the gap be-
tween pleasing our European allies
who have been the colonial pow-
ers and the African states who are
violently anti-colonial,

It is encouraging to note that Pres-
ident Kennedy and Secretary of
State Rusk consider this change
urgently necessary. For they are
convinced that in the global strug-
gle with communism the “new
frontiers” of conflict will be in Af-
rica, Asia, and Latin America. They
are trying to line up the U.S. with
the revolutionary tide sweeping
these countries, but they are finding
it to be a difficult and dangerous
task.

 

Good Sports Schedule Difficult

(Continued from page 2)

alry with Franklin and Marshall.
Carnegie Tech will not play us in
football any longer, evidently be-
cause of insulting behavior toward
a paper-mache Scottie dog of theirs
at the game here in 1959. These
defections from our football sched-
ule may be taken up in 1963 and
1964 by Oberlin and Susquehanna.
We have added Emory and Henry
to the 1961 football schedule.

The problem is simply that Wash-
ington and Lee has had the courage
to stick to their amateur guns while
retaining enough pride to want to
win against the best. Last year in
football we showed what can be
expected from a proud and deter-

 

Coaches Corner
(Continued from page 2)

at least one big boy to help us on

mined Washington and Lee team.
Our basketball team showed the
University of Virginia how deter-
mined we are. Now that we are no
longer pushovers it may be even
harder to schedule the opponents
everyone has been crying for.

Perhaps the generation of W&L
men in school now will go out into
the world with a pride in W&L ath-
letics for their intrinsic worth. We
cannot base our pride in our uni-
versity on the sports-page accom-
plishments of paid gladiators. We do
not have to match exploits with
George Washington or Virginia Tech
alumni. Nor should we try.

 

Coming of the Sociologist
(Continued from page 2)

something is taboo, but that is a last
resort. The best advice I can give
is to say as little as possible and
act mysterious. Do what your lead-
ers tell you. We have one great ad-
vantage in that a sociologist will be-
lieve anything which works nicely
into a theory, so be consistent.

“In closing, I’d like to emphasize
this crucial time to us all. We can
achieve our deserved place in his-
tory if we are firm in our purpose.
It is entirely in our hands. I would
say to you finally, do not ask what
the tribe can do for you, but what
you can do for the tribe.”

 

 

the boards. With the same dedicated
effort by these boys and additional '
help from our fine freshman team of ,
this year, I think we are in for a
much better year in 1961-62.

We made many mistakes, as a)
young team will, but no team tried |

any harder. COACH McHENRY

Pete erteded
IDEAL

BARBER SHOP

QUICK SERVICE

 

eter

*
%
%
By
%
%
%
*
%

MMO Oe i orien

%

 

 

 

 

ROCKBRIDGE LAUNDRY

and
Dry Cleaners

Shirts Transparently Wrapped
for Freshness
*
AGENTS:

Fraternities, Dorms and Co-op

 

The First National Bank

of Lexington
*
has special checking accounts

for students

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   

STUDENTS ACCOUNTS INVITED HERE
Member F, D.L.C.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Save Your Money

Have your laundry done with glee

One bag for a dollar the 2nd bag free
With 2-day service you'll never be blue
Apres wash delivery by Don for you.

Mrs. Don Huffman
wife of the

Tycoon of Nelson Street
Mogul of Lex-Town

Call HO 3-2053
after six

Buy um from Mr.—Let Mrs. Wash um

©0908 OSSSFSESSHHHHTEOHSHHHHHHSSEEHHHEHSHHSEEOCOOOCOES

*

Tareyton delivers the flavor...

    
   
   

Here’s one filter cigarette that’s really different!

The difference is this: Tareyton’s Dual Filter gives you a
unique inner filter of ACTIVATED CHARCOAL, definitely proved to
make the taste of a cigarette mild and smooth. It works together with

a pure white outer filter—to balance the flavor elements in the smoke.
Tareyton delivers—and you enjoy—the best taste of the best tobaccos.

 

Pure white outer filter

 
 

DIAL FILTER 7 arevlon Product of Re Moreen Seow Cpany ~Sobaceo : our middle name @a.1.ce
FRIDAY
Edition

Che KRing-tum Phi

Washington and Lee Semi-Weekly Newspaper

FRIDAY
Edition

 

Volume LXI

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA, MARCH 3, 1961

Number 39

 

 

enator Goldwater Scores Federal Control

1,300 Hear Arizonian Warn Of Russian Threat;
Give Proposals On Labor And Education Bills

Blood Drive Has
125-Pint Quota

(Ed. note—the editorial staff of
the Ring-tum Phi joins in the plea
for student participation in the
Blood drive program. It doesn’t
hurt a bit, and—trite though it
may sound—a pint of blood could
save your life.)

A quota of 125 pints has been set for
the Spring blood drive which is
scheduled for Wednesday, March 8,
in the Student Union, John Mullin,
the campus drive director announced
today.

And R. J. Carlson, director of the
drive for Lexington, says the school
should produce 200 pints—to make up
for past deficiencies. The highest
ever collected here in any recent
drive is 80 pints.

The blood drive, Carlson says, is
a community project and makes
possible free blood transfusions for
all residents of the Roanoke Blood
Bank area, including non-per-
manent residents such as W&L
students.

The drives at VMI had been hav-
(Continued on page 4)

 

Placement Notices
Monday, March 6

Mr. George Goodrich will inter-
view seniors interested in the busi-
ness side of advertising with Procter
& Gamble and will talk with any
interested seniors, regardless of col-
lege major.

Tuesday, March 7

Mr. J.S. Burnette will visit the
campus to talk with seniors interest-
ed in a sales management career with
Procter & Gamble.

Wednesday, March 8

Mr. George La Nicca will be here
to interview seniors interested in
working with Deering, Milliken.
Deering, Milliken, Inc is an agent for
27 textile mills and positions to be
discussed will include those leading
to supervisory positions in the
plants, plant staff and administra-
tive functions and sales.

Thursday, March 9

Mr. Looper and Mr. Richards will
be on the campus, representing The
Wachovia Bank and Trust Com-
pany of Winston-Salem, N. C.

Friday, March 10

Mr. J. D. Towle of the Continental
Grain Company of New York will be
on the campus to talk with seniors
interested in their training program
which is based on the four major
activities of their business—merch-
andising and trading, transportation,
administration and elevator opera-
tions.

Students interested in the above
should make appointments to meet
representatives in the Placement Of-
fice, Washington Hall 25.

Sit-In Student
On UCA Panel

The University Christian Association
has announced that Miss Rebecca
Owen will be a member of the panel
which will discuss the sit-in issue in
the Student Union Tuesday at 7 p.m.

Miss Owen, a student at Randolph-
Macon Women’s College was a par-
ticipant in the six-member sit-in at
the Patterson Drug Store in Lynch-
burg, in early February.

As a result of her participation she
served an eleven-day jail term.
She is an honor student majoring in
religion.

Other members of the panel to dis-
cuss the sit-ins will be Dr. Louis
Hodges, of the W&L Department of
Religion, and law students John Paul
and Hugo Hoogenboom. Hodges will
speak on the historical aspect of the
movement while Paul and Hoogen-
boom will discuss the legal technical-
ities.

Moleolm Brownlee, UCA president,
emphasized that the discussion will
be an examination of sit-ins rather
than a promotion or a debunking of
them. He said, “The UCA as a body
has not reached agreement on this
subject, but we believe an examination
of it is necessary. There will be ad-
vocates of the conservative point of
view on the panel, as well as advo-
cates of the liberal point of view.”

 

 

 

The Honorable ‘Barry Goldwater

 

3 English Seminar Speakers
Include Poet, Critic, Director

By ED BOKEE
Staff Reporter

The names of the 36th, 37th and 38th
Seminars in Literature speakers were
announced today by Dr. Ross Borden,
head of the English Department.

They are author-critic John W.
Aldridge, play director Norris Hough-
ton and American poet Frank O’Hara.

John W. Aldridge will speak on
Thursday, Mar. 16 at 8:15 p.m. in the
duPont Auditorium. His topic will be
“The European Education of Ernest
Hemingway.” On Tuesday, April 25,
Norris Houghton will speak on
“Trends in Contemporary American
Theater” in the duPont Auditorium
at 8:15 p.m.

Frank O’Hara, a young American
poet, will be the third speaker, read-
ing from his own poetry. The date of
his address will be announced later.

Challenging Critic

Aldridge has been described as a
young American critic who has dedi-
cated himself to what he calls “the
ideal of creative independence and
free critical dissent which has come
down to us in the central tradition of
American thought and letters.” He is
a critic of the academic critics and of
the influential literary quarterlies, and
he has challenged many of the stereo-
types of literary and social thought.

He has become alarmed at what
he calls an increasing domination
by the universities over the younger
creative writers, and he especially
deplores the smothering pressures of
the age of conformity. “It is the risk
we are forever running as mass men
in a mass culture; it is the risk we
can afford to run as human beings.”

Born in Sioux City, Iowa, in 1922,
Aldridge won a scholarship to the
University of Chattanooga in 1940. He
spent the summer of 1942 at the Mid-
dlebury College’s School of English at
Bread Loaf in Vermont, and then was
called into the Army. In 1946 he en-
tered the University of California at
Berkeley and became editor of the
magazine Occident. In November of
1947 his essay, “The New Generation
of Writers,” appeared in Harpers Mag-
azine. After receiving his B.A. degree
from the University of California in
1947, he accepted a teaching posi-
tion with the University of Vermont.
Between 1948 and 1955 he was assist-
ant director of the School of Modern
Critical Studies at Vermont.

The Lost Generation

His first book, The Lost Generation,
appeared in 1951. This book is a study
of “the writers of two wars,” and is
considered to be the first serious crit-
ical treatment of a number of the new
writers who emerged in the late 1940’s
such as Mailer, Capote, and Vidot. In |
1952 he compiled an anthology, Cri- '
tiques and Essays on Modern Fiction |
1920-1951, and he co-founded the lit- '

 

erary periodical, Discovery Magazine.
Another book, In Search of Heresy:
American Literature in the Age of
Conformity, is considered to be an
important work because it brings to
the attention of the general public
normally isolated literary controver-
sies. For several years he was book
critic of The Nation.

Currently, Aldridge is working on
a Modern Library edition of the Jeeves
stories of P: G. Wodehouse, on an
essay on Charlotte Bronte, and on a
book on American fiction. He is pres-
ently teaching at Hollins College.

Norris Houghton

Norris Houghton is an author, teach-
er, and play director. Houghton was
born in 1909, and received his A.B.
degree from Princeton in 1931. Be-
tween 1933 and 1939 he was the stage
designer of such Broadway produc-
tions as Good Hunting, Whiteoaks,
The Sleeping Prince and others. In
1951 and 1952 he was a production di-
rector of CBS television, and for 1959
and 1960 he was professor of Drama
and Guest Director of the Experiment-
al Theater at Vassar. He is a 1960-61
Guggenheim Fellow. Mr. Houghton
has been director of the American Na-
tional Theater and Academy, associate
editor of Theater Arts Magazine, and
the editor of Great Russian Short
Stories, published in 1958.

(Continued on page 4)

 

|SWMSFC Tickets

| including the Saturday matinee, will
‘| be given, the Student War Memorial

By GEORGE HONTS
Managing Editor

An audience of 1,300 cheered as
Sen. Barry Goldwater quipped the
“New Frontiers” to temporary ob-
livion and then went on to call for
less federal government Wednesday
evening in Doremus Gymnasium.

In a speech that ranks among the
best received addresses in recent
years here, the Arizona Republican
said there was no need for federal
aid to education and that the state
and local government units could
handle the building of needed class-
rooms. He placed the number of
needed school rooms at a level which
the states are building per year now.

The Senator warned of the dan-
ger of placing too much power in
the hands of the central govern-

 

For Spring Musical
Go On Sale Monday

The 1961 Spring Musical will open
Monday, April 10 and close on Sat-
urday, April 15. Seven performances,

Scholarship Fund Committee announc-
ed today.

The ticket sale will begin Monday,
March 6, Tickets will cost $2.00 each
for the next three weeks, the ad-
vanced sales period. During the fin-
al week before the show opens, the
cost of individual tickets will be
raised to $2.50.

Tickets will be sold by Committee
members in front of Washington Hall
on Monday, Tuesday and Wednesday
of next week and students need only
to sign their names and social fra-
ternity. On Thursday and Friday
Committee members will sell tickets at
each fraternity house. Each fraternity
treasurer has been contacted and all
tickets purchased may be paid for on
fraternity house bills. The Committee
hopes to sell out the majority of per-
formances during the first week of
ticket sales.

The Friday performance and the two
Saturday performances will fall on the
Spring Dance Weekend, and the tick-
ets for these performances will be
scarce. The Committee encourages stu-
dents wishing to take their dates to
one of these performances to pur-
chase their tickets during the ad-
vance sales period, for the capacity
of the Troubadour Theater is only
156.

After the performances here, the
1961 show will play for Hollins, Sweet
Briar, and Randolph-Macon, and an
audience sponsored by the Roanoke
and Lynchburg alumni organizations.

SWMSFC is presently bargaining

 

with a firm in Washington, D.C., with
the hope that they will be able to re-j
cord this year’s musical and offer it to |

 

the public in album form. |

Philosopher-Historian Toynbee |
To Present Lecture Here March 10 |

The white-haired, bushy-browed |
man who was such a familiar figure
about the Washington and Lee Univer-
sity campus three years ago returns
this week for a visit with an old
friend and a public lecture in Dore- |
mus Gymnasium.

Professor Arnold J. Toynbee, the
noted British philosopher-historian,
will pose the question, “Does History
Make Sense?” in his 8 p.m. address on |
Friday.

Toynbee, whose monumental A |
Study of History devotes eleven vol-
umes to civilizations of the past, was
a visiting scholar in residence at
Wahington and Lee during the spring
semester of 1958. He delivered a series
of 15 lectures on “A changing World |
in the Light of History” during his
first prolonged visit to an American
university campus.

During his Lexington sojourn, Pro-
fessor Toynbee worked on revisions
of A Study of History, resulting in a
12th volume entitled “Reconsidera-
tions” which will be published in
April.

While at Washington and Lee this
visit, Professor Toynbee will be the
guest of his long-time friend, Dr. Ed-
ward D. Myers, profesor of philoso-

phy at the university. Dr. Myers was |
a collaborator with Toynbee on the.
eleventh volume of A Study of His- |
tory, a gazateer companion volume to |
the first ten books.

On Friday and Saturday mornings, |

| the British scholar will meet with ad-

vanced Washington and Lee students
in philosophy and history. When he
was at the university in 1958, a class
of 15 students received academic cred-
it for work completed in connection |
with Toynbee’s lecture series. |

Toynbee, at 71, has become a}
“Twentieth Century immortal.” Many
of his opinions are challenged by oth-
er scholars. Some of his beliefs and |
public statements spark controversy.

In early February he was accused |
of being anti-semitic and challenged |
to public debate by the Israeli Am- |

| bassador to Canada, Jacob Herzog. |

Toynbee had said the Israeli treatment |
of Arabs in 1948 was morally com-|
parable to the Nazi persecution of
Jews during World War II. |

At Montreal’s McGill University,
Toynbee answered Ambassador Her- |
zogs protests by saying, “It is im- |

 

ment, saying it was against such a
concentration that the drafters of
the Constitution sought protection.

Sen. Goldwater was appearing for
the annual initiation ceremony of the
Beta Omega Chapter of Pi Sigma Al-
pha, the national political science fra-
ternity. Foul weather, which he
termed “California weather,” delayed
the Serator’s departure from Wash-
ington and he was too late in ar-
riving to take part in the initiation
ceremony or banquet. He did accept
honorary membership in Pi Sigma
Alpha, however.

New Members

Fifteen new members were taken in
the fraternity. Heading the list were
Dr. Leon F. Sensabaugh, professor of
history and Dr. Charles F. Phillips,
assistant professor of Economics.
Others who were initiated Wednes-
day night include; intermediate law
student John Petzold of Greenwich,
Conn.; Harold Fischel, PEP senior
from Washington, N.Y.; Albert Flo-
cher, PiKA senior from Baltimore,
Md.; Arnold Masinter, PEP junior
from Baltimore, Md.; Robert Osborne,
junior from Peekskill, N. Y.; George
Honts, Delt junior from Eagle Rock,
Va.; Robert Holley, DU senior from
Moorestown, N. J.; William Willes,
Sigma Nu Senior from Ft. Pierce,
Fla.; James Hitch, intermediate law
student from Ft. Worth, Tex; Carl
Connell, Sigma Nu junior from Beth-
el Park, Pa.; Stanley Cook, Lambda
Chi senior from Wheat Ridge, Colo.;
Robert O’Brien, senior from Newport
News, Va. and Clinton Anderson,
SPE senior from Lexington, Va.

Would Remain in Senate

At a news conference preceding
his talk in the gymnasium, the Sen-
ator declared he was not planning
on running for the presidency in
1964, but, he continued, that it is a long
way off and no one can be certain
of the future. He stated he would
rather remain in the Senate than
run for the presidency. His Senate
term expires in 1964.

When asked at the conference and
at the assembly if he would support
New York’s Gov. Nelson Rockfeller,
were he nominated in 1964, the Con-
servative replied “We'd have to have
some heart-to-heart talks.” The chief
area of difference between the Ari-
zona Conservative and the New York
Liberal lies, the former said, in their
ideas on the “welfare state.”

Concerned About 1962

As chairman of the Senate Repub-
lican campaign committee, Goldwater
said he was more concerned about
winning more seats in the House and
Senate in 1962 than in thinking about
the 1964 elections.

At the news conference, the Sen-
ator volunteered the comment that
he felt Nixon had made a mistake
last fall in gambling New York
state against the South. He indi-
cated he felt Nixon would have

 

been better off to not express an
opinion on civil rights in the hope
of winning the Empire State while
risking and losing his chance to
carry the South.

Big Gains in South

The Senator went on to say Re-
publicans have made their biggest
gains in the past 15 years in the
South, and the time would come
when the party could challenge the
entrenched Democrats there. He also
declared the Republicans should not
try to replace “Good Conservative
Democrats” like Senator Byrd and
Robertson of Virginia with Liberal
Republicans.

When asked about GOP strength
in the large cities, Goldwater replied
the party lacks the machinery pos-
sessed by the Democrats in most, if
not all, metropolitan areas. He esti-
mated the Democrats were ahead
150,000 in every large city, due to
patronage, before the elections begin.

A man with some unusual views on
foreign affairs, including withdraw-
ing recognition of Soviet Russia, he
said we could have peace easily by
bowing to Krushchev’s wishes. But
we must demand victory in the cold
war if we are to survive as the ma-
jor power. The Senator said if we
were to demand victory and strength-
en the “national backbone” we could
win many of the neutralist countries
who are wondering who is going to
win the East-West struggle to our
side.

On the last item covered in the
news conference, Goldwater said the
administration’s relief program will
not pull us out a recession—if we
are in a recession.

Proposals on Labor

As chairman of the Senate com-
mittee on Labor, Sen. Goldwater
presented several ideas on lessening
the “labor monopoly.” Among the
points in his program, which he
has introduced in six bills, were
measures to equalize the power of
labor and management. Among these
proposals were: 1) do away with ma-
jority representation in choosing a
local union; 2) make quicker court
action—via injunctions—in strikes
possible; 3) take unions out of poli-
tics in the manner business has been
restrained and 4) end compulsory
unionism.

His speech and his answers drew
three standing ovations and many
outbursts of applause from the crowd
of students, visiting dignitaries and
out-of-town guests in the gym.

The Senator flew to Charlottesville
from Washington. He was met by I.
Lee Potter, a prominent Virginia Re-
publican, and W&L senior Stan
Cook. Cook introduced Sen. Gold-
water.

On hand at the press conference
were the two Roanoke television sta-
tion units, reporters from most of
the area newspapers and the student
news reporters.

 

 

Bob Fussell is shown in costume going over his lines in preparation for the

Troubadour production of Luigi Pirandello’s “Henry IV.”

The play will be

possible to be wicked more than 100| presented March 7-10 at 8:30 p.m. in the Troubadour Theatre. Seats for the
per cent, For example, I don’t have to| production may be reserved by calling the Troubadour box office between

(Continued on page 4)

| 2-6 p.m, or 7-8 p.m. daily.

—Photo by Bowen
IN THE “LIBERAL SPIRIT” ..

Che Ring-tum Phi

 

Senator Barry Goldwater

Senator Barry Goldwater treated Lexington to an unpre-
tentious and unprecedented expounding of political philosophy
Wednesday evening. His manner was impressive, and the re-
ception afforded him was indicative of the respect he enjoys in
this community.

The hackneyed term, “Conservatism,” however, does not,
in our opinion, do justice to Goldwater’s philosophy. Rather
than preserving what is established, the senator is advocating a
thorough renovation of the American system of government.
Also, there is no precedent in the past for the United States
to take the offensive and provoke warfare, yet this is what the
senator proposes we do. He holds that the only way to achieve
the necessary victory over communism is to aggress or take the
initiative against the communist world. Such credos cannot be
confined in a “Conservative” definition.

Because we agree with the greatest conservative, Edmund
Burke, that conservatism is the wholesome acceptance of mod-
erate change in so far as historical and social conventions and
convictions allow, we would term Sen. Goldwater as anything
but a conservative—he is very much a radical and construction-
alist. Also, for the sake of definition, the absence of govern-
mental control is not conservatism, but laissez faire.

If we had to pigeon-hole this divergent philosophy of the
Senator’s into a pat definiton, we would propose that it is pri-
marily Constitutionalistic. The Constitution, for Goldwater, is
an instrument for limiting the functions of government—"“a sys-
tem of restraints against the natural tendency of government to
expand in the direction of absolutism.” An obvious and neces-
sary deduction from his remarks here is that Federal control
must be curtailed and weakened.

His belief that Federal intervention in education is un-
constitutional is based upon the Tenth Amendment of the
Constitution which reads: “The powers not delegated to the
United States by the Constitution nor prohibited by it to the

 

states, are reserved to the states respectively, or to the people.”

Moreover, because Federal aid to the states does not go
without stipulations this Federal control is preeminent, Gold-
water argued. He cited the National Defense Education Act as
an example of this doorway to encroachment in which “Federal
aid under the act is conditioned upon compliance by the states
and local educational institutions with various standards and
specifications laid down by the department of Health, Educa-
tion and Welfare.”

In an effort to expell Federal Control in those areas not
delegated by the Constitution, such as agriculture and education,
Goldwater proposes that the state and local governments should
take upon themselves this responsibility and effect change when
and if they desire. Such a premise, for Goldwater, leads to lower
Federal taxation and more individual representation.

As he stressed, ‘‘We the people . . .”, is the summation of
the Constitution, and it was in this phrase that the American
system of government had its origin.

However, we propose that the senator neglected certain
portions of the Constitution which might better elucidate his
proposals. First, not only does the preamble begin ‘We the peo-
ple...” but it also continues: ‘in order to form a more perfect
union, establish justice, insure domestic tranquility, provide for
the common defense, promote the general welfare, and secure
the blessings of liberty to ourselves and our posterity . . .”

The implications of ‘‘to form a more perfect union” are ob-
vious. A Federal system was established vesting sovereignty, not
in the state, nor in the individual, but in a national government
which was and is “to promote the general welfare.”’

Secondly, the Second Amendment to the Constitution
reads as follows: “A well regulated Militia, being necessary to
the security of a free State, the right of the people to keep and
bear arms shall not be infringed.” Therefore, we may assume

If we accept Senator Goldwater’s premise that the power of the
Federal government must be limited to assure sovereignty to the
state and the individual, then we might justly hold the establish-
ment of military forces by each state contingent upon their will
and allocated taxation in lieu of a Federal oriented armed forces.

We would further assume that these militias, perhaps even
another Army of Northern Virginia, would wage a successful
war of aggression and attrition on the totalitarian communist
world. To quote the Senator: ‘Do it yourself, and keep the
Federal Government out of it.”” Hence, not only would domestic
spending by the Federal government be reduced in areas of
education, medical care and agriculture, but also national de-
fense spending, by far the greatest draw on the tax dollar, will
be reduced.

Need we refer to the ridiculous ‘‘buckboard” approach of
the Senator? Would that we could provide for ourselves and
ward off Indian arrows. The truth is, however, that exploding
population, unemployment, recession in business, and the threat
of nuclear destruction—the old platitudes—make the responsi-
bility too mammoth for a state or local organization.

Even if American mothers “stopped taking coffee breaks”’
and ‘‘taught the social graces to their children,” we fear that the
problem of educational need—more classrooms, greater teach-
er’s salaries, etc., would still not be solved.

We would, on the other hand, compliment the Senator for
proposing change—for this is the liberal spirit of which we
spoke last week. Even without his philosophy being girded down
in the Republican Party token, ‘Conservatism,’ he would be
just as much a confirmed reformer as the so-called liberals of our
day. Without such vitality in government our system would be-
come fatally stagnant.

In his book, Conscience of a Conservative, the labor union

 

problem is admirably assessed, and Sen. Goldwater’s solution

that every state has the constitutional right to maintain an army. | deserves recognition and possibly adoption.

 

 

By ROBERT C. KETCHAM

Friday Columnist

Wednesday evening an enthusias-
tie crowd congregated to hear busi-
nessman-politician Goldwater pre-
sent his own viewpoint. The Sena-
tor presented a simplified view of
his conservative position in an easy
to follow and relatively short talk.

Doubtless a good conservative
could read into the speech what he
wished and cite it as reflecting his
beliefs. With Goldwater’s emphasis on
the buckboard one could visualize
himself on the seat (if there were
room), just as the educational prob-
lem hit home when he stated that
“money is involved.” Nevertheless,
the Senator disregarded some contra
beliefs in his proposal for education
and his international solution which
should be presented.

The only facts Goldwater utilized
in regards to the Educational difficul-
ties were those on the number of
classrooms, 68,000, which he said the
government says we need. His figures
do not correspond with either the
Committee for economic Develop-
ment or the U.S. Office of Educa-
tion. The Office of Education reports
that last fall public schools were
short 142,160 classrooms. It further
states that 1,868,000 of the 37.6 mil-

lion pupils in public elementary
and secondary schools are in “ex-'
cess of normal capacity” and 685,000 |
are on half-day shifts. The Senator
only scoffed at the need for class-
rooms, saying that local authorities
are building at a greater rate than
needed.

Goldwater did advocate better
education but laid full burden on
the local level with state help to |
provide “a better equipped student.”
The remedy he mentioned was that
money should be spent “at the level
where it exists.”

Here then is the crux of the prob-
lem. Where does it exist?

The hard fact is that the number

 

resources which would supplement! in our educational system. The Land

the local taxes. The rural dominated
legislatures will not support raising
taxes and in addition there is the fear
of scaring away industry if taxes are
increased.

Education begins at home or as
Goldwater put it, “we parents are so
doggone busy we have neglected our
children.” But where does it end?
Beardsley Rum insists that it is un-
realistic to expect to achieve a ma-
jor breakthrough by operating one
at a time upon the forty-five thou-
sand school districts or even upon
the fifty legislatures.

Ruml’s analysis is a realization of
hard fiscal fact that the states and

Ordinance Act of 1785 did not tamp-
er with that principle and it is not

advocated in the proposed education |

bill. The Kennedy program is careful
to reserve to the states the right to
control education.

The Kennedy program leaves the
state the option to use the money
for building construction, teacher’s
salaries or for both. It is realistic
in reserving to the states the control
of education. The program is also
valid when it impliedly asserts that
America is not too poor to educate
its children but that the present re-
liance on fifty state legislatures and
local districts is not enough.

Many Of Goldwater’s Ideas Need Revision

ik

Res Ipsa Loquitur

Goldwater’s Speech
Viewed From Page 1
To The Comic Section

By THORN CRAVEN
Friday Columnist

In search of a column Wednesday
night I followed everyone to Dore-
mus Gymnasium, in order to be im-
pressed along with
the rest of the
conservatives. Un-
fortunately I have
to write this be-
fore the paper
comes out, so if I
make some mis-
takes in analyz-
ing the Honorable
Senator’s remarks
remember that I

*k

A footnote on Goldwater’s educa-
tion plans might be noted. He did
endorse aid to “impacted areas,” that
is, where communities are loaded
with federal workers and military
personnel. This proposal, incidental-
ly, is one Eisenhower sought to cut
back,

When questioned as to Russia the
Senator restated his advocacy of |
withdrawing recognition from Rus-'
sia. Even Harold Stassen hasn’t gone
that far. To treat diplomatic recog- j@
nition as a moral issue brands Gold- |
water as the radical he has been ac-
cused of being. “Oh, sure you’d run
the chance of trouble” the Senator

(Continued on age 4)

 

 

 

 

 

which must be educated has out-| localities cannot keep up. Even the
grown the state resources in a large; very conservative Committee for
number of states. The school systems | Economic Development recently es-
which need the most help can get timated that school costs will rise
no more from those they serve. The | by 47 per cent in the 1960’s. At such
schools are faced with the problem! a rate the state and local govern-
of raising money by the antiquated ments would have to divert almost
property tax, the one tax the local) all the revenue to education alone.
citizens may vote down. Goldwater did mention one word,
The states themselves do little to control, in passing. The American
alleviate the pressured conditions of , people have never believed that the
the local school boards. The political | Federal Government should be al-
system in many states does not per-| lowed to control the matter taught,
| mit adequate use of state financial who teaches or how teaching is done

 

 

Sports Play A Different Role In England |

By JON McLIN

Friday Columnist

Oxford, England, Feb. 24—One of
the most striking differences between
colleges in Oxford and those in the
U.S. is the entirely different role
played by sports in the two situa-
tions.

Many, if not most, Englishmen hold

| ball (soeeer), ice hockey and field’ or facilities and equipment made of
hockey, athletics (which in the nar-| the colleges—or of the University—
rowly used British sense means track| that make them ready to co-oper-
and field), golf and tennis. For those| erate usually with teams which
with more time and/or ambition,| are seeking special funds for some
there are rowing and cricket. (It has| such venture as the schedueling of

Sit-In Confusion Is Result
Of Failure To Realize Aims

By MALCOLM BROWNLEE
Friday Columnist
The most controversial subject; a legalistic method and over a long
concerning students in this area is| period of time. They see little dif-
the lunch counter| ference between the quicker, il-
sit-in movement.| legal methods of the sit-ins and the
Probably no other} mehods of the segregationists who
single develop-| interferred with school inegration.

ment in the field To this, the sit-ins answer that they
of race relations are merely risking a community’s
has caused more| odor to obtain justice whereas the
concern and more segregationists are violating a com-
confusion. Much munity’s order to preserve injustice.
of this confusion Besides, they say, we ourselves have
results from the! never violated the order of a com-
failure of those munity. Disorder and violence has
outside the move- always been caused by the persons
ments to under-| .1, object to the sit-ins. The iden-

   

Brownlee

 

been said, not without justification,
that the three things most difficult
for a foreigner to understand about
Britain are the relations of the

games for a tour on the continent. | stand the aims and the various as-

tifying characteristic of the move-

the opinion that Americans tend to be
seriously underexercised—an opin-
ion attested to by President Ken-
nedy’s recent reference to statistics
of Yale’s admissions office which
show declining degrees of physical
fitness in its freshman classes.
Certainly, if the two countries’

be judged by proportional numbers
of participants, the above opinion
seems to be justified. For if Amer-
icans have dedicated themselves to
mass education, the British have con-
sistently pursued the idea of sports
for the masses.

It is this idea that sports are for
those of all levels of competence,
not merely for the select few, that
is the distinguishing characteristic
of the British system, From it the
non-professional nature of the
sports—all of which are coached
and administered by students—
logically follows.

A great number and diversity of
sports are actively pursued at Ox-
ford. For the part-timers, there are
rubgy football and association foot-

 

Church to the State, the relation of
the Crown to Parliament, and the
rules of cricket.)

The thing that surprises an Amer-
ican about all these sports is the
total lack of supervision by non-
student personnel. For each sport,

 

there are usually one or two teams'|
standards of physicial fitness are to!

each from the University and from |
each of the thirty-odd colleges. And
each of these teams has a student |
captain who is responsible for re-
cruitment, schedueling, coaching,
managing and—if he has time left—
playing himself.

More amazing still is the nochalant
attitude with which the captains
approach this responsibility, and the
aplomb with which they plan such
ventures as trips through the coun-
tries of Europe or to matches in other
parts of Britain.

The only purpose for which full-
time help is usually employed is
that of maintenance of facilities.
And this is minimized by the fact
that facilities are generally poorer
and less extensive than in the U.S.
It is the modesty of these requests

 

As equally striking as the forego-
ing difference is the disparity be-
tween the attitudes with which sports
are approached here and in the U.S. ,
As opposed to the strongly competi- |
tive drive for victory in America,
the British games are marked by
a “we’re-just-doing-it-for-fun-and-

pects of the movements. Their failure| -,4nt has been its non-violent char-

haven’t had the
keen insights of
our political sages which probably
are splattered all around this hum-
ble offering on the printed page.

I'll have to agree with the Senator
that Virginia air is indeed free, but
unfortunately government controls
on getting into the right spot to
breath the air are a little foggy as
far as I’m concerned. I really don’t
know whether Mr. Goldwater was
referring to the air being free from
cost or from germs, but I suppose
that this point will be cleared up by
those on my right and left, if not
by them, then at least by the worthy
editorial(s) which habitually appear
on this page.

As I go on with this I feel that
it would be more to my advantage to
leave the realm of politics and dwell
on the crowd reaction to Goldwater.
Perhaps by doing this I can set up
a code for right conduct when our
next eminent speaker comes to
show us the way next Friday. But

Craven

to understand is, in turn, often due
to the lack of organization in many

acter. Participants have quietly ac-

cepted arrest and jail terms.

movements, to the variation in meth-

All of the movements in Virgini
ods and immediate goals between "ee

are protests against the Virginia

before leaving Goldwater entirely I
would like to go on record as saying
that I agree with him entirely, ex-
cept for the points which I think

movements in different cities, and to
the failure of some of the participants
in the movements to define their aims

and to ask certain questions about

and exercise” approach which some- a
what they are doing.

times make victory seem a secon-
dary goal. It is in this spirit that a| The basic question is this: Is it right
reluctant recruit may be addressed | for a person to violate a law which
by the captain, saying something’ enforces principles which a person
like “it doesn’t matter if you aren’t| believes are immoral? Or is it right
especially good; have a go at it for) for a person to go against what he be-
a while and see how you get on.” lieves is morally and democratically
5 8 correct in order to uphold the law?

The sit-ins represent a challenge to
a traditional, well-worked-out sys-
tem; and the participants in the
movements realize this. They do not
claim to be working within the law
but to be protesting against a law
which they believe is unjust.

 

Several recent, noteworthy events
in Oxford deserve mention. The first
of these concerns a campaign to gain
for the women members of the Uni-
versity debating membership in the
Oxford Union—a society, to which
about half of the University belong,
which serves doubly as a gentlemen’s
club and a debating hall, in which
many famous British politicians be-
gan their careers.

The campaign received the sup-
port of the officers of the Union, but
parliamentary maneuvering by the

(Continued on page 4)

Their actions have brought them
into conflict with those whites who
considered themselves liberal be-

generally have had the goal of see-
ing the Negro obtain full right, but
in contrast to the sit-in supporters
they wished to accomplish this by

 

fore the sit-ins began. These whites |

|

| trespass law, a law with time-hon-

need littl ion. i
ered legal standing. But more speci- = 5 sae mere eaten, Ve

doubtedly these points will receive

(Continued on page 4)

Che Ring-tum Phi

Friday Edition

The Ring-tum Phi is published Tues-
day and Friday during the college year.
It is printed we, the Journalism Labor-
ory Press, Washington and Lee Uni-
versity. The mailing address is Box
899, Lexington, Va,

Entered ag second class matter Sep-
tember 20, 1946 at the Post Office, Lex-
ington, Va., under the act of March

 

National Advertising Representative:
The National Advertisers Service, Inc.,
420 Madison Ave., New York, N.Y.
Editor-in-Chief.....
Business Manage

  

..Nathan Simpson
iden Huntley Biggs

Editorial Board

Managing Wditor................ George Honts
Assistant Managin ditor

  
   
   
  
 

News Editor..... woeAndy Nea
Sports Editor....... ...Bill Outman
Assistant Sports .John Allgood
Copy Editor Tom Jordan

  

 

 

Assistant Copy Dick Heard
Advertising Manager.....Edward Holmes
Circulation Manager.......... Peter Agelesto

Office Manager Don McFall

the attention due them, and by din-
ner Friday I will be able to express
my thoughts without fear of being
laughed at.

Now from the front page to the
comic section. Everything about
Wednesday night seemed just a
little amusing. First of all there
weren’t enough seats for the crowd.
Conservatism in estimating the size
of the audience no doubt. But I
solved that problem by going down
and sitting in the seats reserved
for the members of whoever-it-
was that sponsored the thing to be-
gin with, I admit this only because
I was accompanied by everyone
else. Throughout the speech I
wondered where the people who
did sponsor it were.

Then there were the questions.
After everyone got over being a little
shy about speaking to Goldwater in

(Continued on page 4)
 

 

THE RING-TUM PHI

Page 3

 

 

 

 

tevvvvwVvVvTTwerVvT TTT Teer Ce OrereCC Ce TTC CTT TTT?" ee

Poor Wahoos!

 

>

>

,

>

‘

;

;

>

> Little David felled mighty Goliath last month in Doremus Gym-
; nasium when the W&L cagers trampled Virginia’s Wahoos, 78-68.
t That win marked the third straight sport in which mighty Goliath,
» our big brother to North, had bowed to Little David, lowly regarded
. W&L, this year.

, Last Monday Coach Dick Miller’s wrestlers performed the fourth
} David and Goliath act of the year, as they skunked Virginia, 28-0.

; Poor Virginia’s torments started with football (the mighty Wahoos
, ran their losing streak to 29), but, alas, W&L didn’t have a chance to
} make the string 30.

; The Generals’ first victory over Virginia was a 4-0 triumph in
, soccer. Steve Hawkins paced the General win with three goals.

2 Virginia next fell to the Washington and Lee swimming team,
. 59-36. Jim Parker and Herb Jancke led the scoring as the Generals
, added to the woes of the Wahoos.

‘ If the spring teams can continue the David and Goliath act, W&L’s
; 1960-61 athletic season will be a year to remember.

 

 

il

 

 

MUD, MUD, MUD—Here’s a muddy scene from the annual spring
football game in which the Blue and White teams sloshed to an 8-8 tie.
—Photo by Young

 

I-M Basketball Finals Tonight

PikKA Wins Intramural Handball
Championship; SAE Is Second

The Intramural handball championship has finally been de-
cided after the final rounds of elimination were forced into a

second elimination.

This year’s handball champions are the PiKA’s, who man-
aged to edge out the SAE’s, Phi Psis, and the Sigma Nus for

the honor.

In the first round of the finals held®

last week, the Sigma Nus were elim-
inated while the remaining teams all
held 2-1 records. In this initial round,
the Phi Psis defeated the PiKA’s
3-2; the SAE’s in turn were victor-
ious over the Phi Phis 3-2; and in
the supposed “final” match of the
playoffs, the PiKa’s defeated the

SAE’s, thus causing a three way tie |

for first place.

In the opening round of the sec-
ond “finals,” the SAE’s again de-
feated the Phi Psis by a 3-2 mar-
gin. Bill Smith, Worth Brown, and
the doubles team of Brent Arthur
and Ned Olds accounted for the
SAE’s points, while Clark Valen-
tiner and Ace Hubbard were vic-
torious for the Phi Psis.

In the second and final round of
the championship playoff, the PiKA’s
defeated the SAE’s once again, and
took possession of the coveted crown,
which has been held for the past
few years by the Phi Phis.

Quick victories by Cy and Al
Painter put the PiKA’s ahead 2-0
early in the match. Their triumphs
came over Huntley Biggs and Brent
Arthur, respectively.

The SAE’s countered with victories
in the first and third matches as
Bill Smith defeated Nick Smith,
while Courtney Mauzy defeated

 

Mike Keating.

The doubles victory for the
PiKA’s broke the 2-2 deadlock, as
Tim Ireland and Bill Outman de-
feated the SAE’s Worth Brown and
Ned Olds.

Thus far in the Intramural season,
seven contests have been decided,
while the eighth contest, basketball,
is up for grabs this evening as the
Betas and Sigma Nus battle it out for
the crown.

Both of these teams tied with iden-
tical 2-1 records during the first
round of the finals held last week.
In their previous encounter, the
Betas pulled out a close victory
over their opponents for this eve-
ning.

The SAEs and Phi Delts will
meet in a consolation round to de-
cide the third and fourth place
victors. Both teams have 1-2 rec-
ords in final competition.

Oe Se oe fe oe oe ole of oe ole ole ole ole ae ake of ole ole ole ole fe oe ote

CALL BY NUMBER
and Save Time

LEXINGTON
TELEPHONE CoO.

We rbe oho ohe ade ofe ale ote ote ole eee ode oho obo feeb ele oke oe odoode

 

%
%
%
fe
*%
%

Beebe

 

 

TETLOW
TV Service

221 S. Main HO 3-2841

 

 

BROWN’S
CLEANING
WORKS

We Call for and Deliver

24 Hour Service
Student agents in the
dormitory and fraternities
HO 3-2013 14 Randolph St.

 

 

 

 

Expert Motor Work

 

FOREIGN CARS AND STUDEBAKER LARKS
OUR SPECIALTY

MAIN STREET MOBIL

Open 8:00 a.m.—8:00 p.m.
STATION

 

 

1| of his defensive play and phenominal

Wrestling Team Finishes Season
With ‘Very Successful’ 7-3 Record

By PETER ALFORD
Sports Writer

A 28-0 victory over hapless
U. Va. capped what Coach Dick Mil-
ler termed “a very sucecssful sea-
on with great promise for next year.”
This win over Virginia was our first
shutout over the Wahoos and gives
W&L an 18-6 series edge.

Posting a season’s slate of 7-3, the
Generals made the over-all record of
wrestling at Washington and Lee 179
wins, 91 losses, and 6 ties since 1931,
when the sport first appeared.

With all of this year’s squad
returning, newly elected co-cap-
tains Sandy Mersereau and Dave

 

Montgomery along with Coach
Miller anticipate another strong
team next season.

The grapplers’ three losses came

at the hands of West Virginia, Frank- |

lin and Marshall, and North Caro-
lina, two of which are subsidized.
Schedule changes for next year will
see New York University dropped
from the varsity slate, and North
Carolina State, Duke, Virginia and
North Carolina matches added for
the Freshman team.

The best performers on this year’s
team were Dave Montgomery with
an eight and two record, Herb Smith
with a seven and one record, and

 

‘Bip’ Fauber

And Brett

Thackston Named To Va.

All-State Squads By AP

|

| Captain Sandy Mersereau who posted

a seven, two, and one record.

Hoke Robinson, at 123 pounds,
had a six and three record; utility
wrestler Dick Albert, a creditable
five and two, as did 177-pound man
Jud Babcock. Freshman Ed Jansen
lost only one out of five bouts, and
Bob Pagano won all three of his
Varsity encounters.

Outpointing their opponents 198
to 106, the grapplers secured twenty-
two pins while allowing only eight.

 

| Hoke Robinson led in this depart-

ment with five, followed by Dave
| Montgomery and Sandy Mersereau
| with four pins apiece.

| Captain Mersereau easily led the
squad in escapes and takedowns, but
Jud Babcock took the honors for
| most reversals. Herb Smith caused
,the most predicaments (six) and
| near pins (five) throughout the sea-
| son to lead the team.

| It is interesting to note that four
| wrestlers on this year’s team shared

 

top this year’s fine record.

the 147 to 157 and 167-pound class-
es. Sandy Mersereau, Herb Smith.,
Dick Albert, and Ed Jansen compiled
a twenty-three, six, and one record
for the three weight divisions.

Lack of experience if not lack of
numbers was felt in the heavy-
weight division. Out of the five
heavyweights, only Bob Pagano
was able to win during the seasons.

The 137 pound class was disputed
over by three freshman and a senior.
Ted Hardin, Alex Alexander, Chick
Owens, and latecomer Ken Greer
shared the grappling duties compil-
ing an overall five, four, and one
slate.

With all of these wrestlers plus
junior varsity hopefuls Mike Brum-
by, Tony Walker, Rick Uhlig, Ed
Bokee, and Nick Simmons, next
season’s wrestlers, with only one
senior and the remainder juniors
and sophomores, should be ready to

 

Bip Fauber and Brett Thackston, Washington and Lee’s |
one-two punch in basketball, received Small College All-State |

honors this week.

|

Fauber, a 6-2 sophomore, was named to the second team |
while Thackston received an honorable mention. The team was |
selected by the Associated Pre'ss.

 

Thackston edged Fauber
W&L’s scoring honors by one point,
257 to 256. Thackston had an aver-
age of 14.26 points per game against
Fauber’s 14.22 points per game.

But Fauber received his second
team berth over Thackston because

18.8 rebounding average. In 18 games
the “Bipper” pulled down 302 re-
bounds in spite of his height handi-
cup. Playing against boys 6-5 to 6-8
didn’t bother Fauber. In fact, he had
his best nights against the taller
clubs.

Fauber went over the 20-mark in
rebounding four times. He collected
24 against Virginia, 24 against Emory
and Henry, 23 against Bridgewater,
and 20 against Sewanee.

Five times Fauber passed the
20-mark in scoring. He had 20-
point plus performances against
Virginia (26), Randolph-Macon
(23), Chattanooga (22), Roanoke
(21), and Sewanee (21). Thackston
turned in three 20-point games—
Virginia (27), Franklin and Mar-
shall (21), and Sewanee (20).

for *

 

Heading the first All-State team
was Norfolk William and Mary’s Leo

Anthony, the third highest scorer in |
Virginia basketball history. Anthony |

scored 2,181 points in his four-year |
collge career.

Dom Flora, W&L’s All-American,
set the state scoring record with
2,310 points. Virginia’s Buzzy Wil-
kinson achieved second with 2,233
points.

This is Anthony’s fourth year as al
member of the All-State team.
Joining him are Randolph-Macon’s
Carl Koenig and Bridgewater’s Jim
Reedy, who were named for the third
straight year; Hampden-Sydney’s |
Bill Hardin; and Randolph-Macon’s
Frank Kaminski

Second team members are George
Shaheen, Richmond Professional In-
stitute; Paul Dotson and Rod Ely,

joke ole oe ae oe ae oe afe afe ae ofe ae we oe oe afe oe oben oe ae afe fe

Baker
Ford Sales
&
BETTER DEALS

CLEARANCE
of lot for 1961 Models

 

 

NEW AND
USED CARS

Highway 60 East

he odo ao ofe oes fea fe ofeofe ofa ole ole fe oe ole fe oke oe ae oe ae af fo ae oe fe ofe oe ofe ode fe

PEPE RT MES Me MET NGS MEF MET MES MEY Et MEP MET Met ET MEY ME MY EY ES MET GT MGT ET MEP OGY Mat MEP ET ES PT Et ET

4
4
4
4
4
4
‘
*
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
tC
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
r
4
4

 

* |
We OLe he oe whe obo oe ale oe ole ode ole ole abe ode oe fe ofe ale fe ole ote ofe ots

 

Bip Fauber

 

 

 

verry

4
HICKMAN’S ESSO |

South Main Street
HO 3-2024

 

 

De icicak

Aeterna tintin Minami

SPENCER

General Tire
536 E. Nelson Street

Best in Tires
GENERAL

Best in Recapping
Kraft Tread

New and Used Tires
FOR COMPACT CARS

 

 

DIXON’S

ESSO SERVI
ROUTE 60 EAST

Across from the W

 

HO 3-4214

Wash, Grease, Lube, Road Service

Charge Accounts Welcome

SCOSSSCOSSSSSSSSSESSSSSSCSCSENMSESSSHSSSOCeSEGSSEES

CE CENTER
IN LEXINGTON
hite Top Resturant

Roanoke; and Alex Roberts, Ran-|
dolph-Macon.

|
|

|
|

|

   

   

 

 

  

On Campus 1:

(Author of “I Was a Teen-age Dwarf”, “The Many
Loves of Dobie Gillis’’, ete.)

WORDS: THEIR CAUSE AND CURE

Today let us take up the subject of etymology (or entomology,
as it is sometimes called) which is the study of word origins
(or insects, as they are sometimes called).

Where are word origins (insects) to be found? Well sir, some-
times words are proper names that have passed into the language.
Take, for instance, the words used in electricity: ampere was
named after its discoverer, the Frenchman Andre Marie Ampere
(1775-1836); similarly ohm was named after the German G. 8.
Ohm (1781-1854), watt after the Scot James Watt (1736-1819),
and bulb after the American Fred C. Bulb (1843-1912).

There is, incidentally, quite a poignant little story about Mr.
Bulb. Until Bulb’s invention, all illumination was provided by
gas, which was named after its inventor Milton T. Gas who,
strange to tell, had been Bulb’s roommate at Cal Tech! In fact,
strange to tell, the third man sharing the room with Bulb and
Gas was also one whose name burns bright in the annals of
illumination— Walter Candle!

The three roommates were inseparable companions in col-
lege. After graduation all three did research in the problem of
artificial light, which at this time did not exist. All America
used to go to bed with the chickens. In fact, many Americans
were chickens.

Well sir, the three comrades—Bulb, Gas, and Candle—
promised to be friends forever when they left school, but success,
alas, spoiled all that. First Candle invented the candle, got
rich, and forgot his old friends. Then Gas invented gas, got rich,
bankrupted Candle, and forgot his old friends. Then Bulb in-
vented the bulb, got rich, bankrupted Gas, and forgot his
old friends.

    

 

rcs,

ca =

<n ee
‘They hechne fs ,

Crass ower Mie

Candle and Gas, bitter and impoverished at the age respec-
tively of 75 and 71, went to sea as respectively the world’s
oldest and second oldest cabin boy. Bulb, rich and grand, also
went to sea, but he went in style—as a first-class passenger on
luxury liners.

Well sir, strange to tell, all three were aboard the ill-fated
Lusitania when she was sunk in the North Atlantic. And,
strange to tell, when they were swimming for their lives after the
shipwreck, all three clambered aboard the same dinghy!

Well sir, chastened and made wiser by their brush with death,
they fell into each other’s arms and wept and exchanged for-
giveness and became fast friends all over again.

For three years they drifted in the dinghy, shaking hands and
singing the Cal Tech rouser all the while. Then, at long last,
they spied a passing liner and were taken aboard.

They remained fast friends for the rest of their days, which,
T regret to report, were not many, because the liner which picked
them up was the Titanic.

What a pity that Marlboros were not invented during the
lifetimes of Bulb, Gas, and Candle! Had there been Marlboros,
these three friends never would have grown apart because they

would have known how much, despite their differences, they still
had in common. I mean to say that Marlboros ean be lit by
candle, by gas, or by electricity, and no matter how you light
them, you always get a full-flavored smoke, a filter cigarette
with an unfiltered taste that makes anyone—including Bulb,
Gas, and Candle—settle back and forget anger and strife and
smile the sweet smile of friendship on all who pass!

1961 Max Shulman

+ * *

Another peaceful smoke from the makers of Marlboro is the
brand-new unfiltered king-size Philip Morris Commander.
Try one soon and find out how welcome you'll be aboard.
Page 4

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

Role Of English Sports Different

(Continued from page 2)

old guard foreed it into the juris-
diction of a poll of all life members.
In this pool it received a majority,
but not the 2/3 vote needed for
adoption. It’s still, it seems, a man’s

Another campaign — generating
much enthusiasm among both old
and current Oxford men has been
that for the Chair of Poetry. Four
candidates—Robert Graves, F. R.
Leavis, Enid Starkie, Helen Gard-
ner—had been nominated to suc-
ceed H. H. Auden in the coveted
post, which the occupant holds for
five years.

Graves received half of the 658
votes cast, out of a list of 30,000
M.A.’s eligible to vote. Headline in
the tabloids the next day shouted:
“Oxford Digs Graves.” Many were
amused by the following placard
displayed in support of Graves:
“AUDENtem superare nequit mulier-
cula matem, Nec LEVIS iste modes
aequiperare GRAVES.”...

Left-winger at Oxford, long
known for its socialistic tradition,
have taken heart from the recent
demonstration by Bertrand Rus-
sell’s Committee of 100 in protest
against the establishment of Po-
laris bases in Holy Loch, Scotland.
The Campaign for Nuclear Dis-
armarment, or OND, which calls
for unilateral renunciation of nu-
clear weapons and of NATO by
Britain, is increasingly vocal in
Oxford debates and discussions. ...

 

Craven Views Goldwater
(Continued from page 2)

front of a thousand people it seemed
that the questions were very good
reflections of the level on which
the crowd listened to the Senator. I
was especially impressed with the
question, “Senator, what are your
views on federal aid to the aged
for medical purposes?” Since I don’t
follow politics too closely I was eager
to hear Goldwater’s answer to this,
and you could tell that he was anx-
ious for someone to ask him the
question. And I thought that it was
remarkable the way his answer fit in
with his views on federal aid to edu-
cation.

Now I seem to be back discussing
politics again, and I’m quite lost. I
suppose that I could comment on
Goldwater’s jokes, but no doubt they
will be dealt with elsewhere on this
page. So I will stop and refer you to
my colleagues. Be a liberal and read
them well, they will further your
understanding of the issues at stake
in these trying times.

 

 

SSP ES ee a a

STATE

LEXINGTON, VA.

 

 

LASTS TIMES SATURDAY

 

 

     
  

 
 

M-G-M presents

GINA LOLLOBRIGIDA
ANTHONY FRANCIOSA
ERNEST BORGNINE

wn AN ARCOLA PRODUCTION

"GO NAKED
IN THE |

 
 

   
   
     
  

4 with LUANA PATTEN
. { cinemascore + COLOR

 

Another great controversy was
created when a student magazine re-
cently began reviewing lectures by
University Professors. The quality
of lectures is notoriously low by
American standards, but this is
because they are not such a vital
part of the Oxford system of teach-
ing.

The Proctor (yes, here too!) re-
acted by banning any further re-
views, and there resulted a great
clamor of protests from dons and
undergraduates alike. One of the
professors whose lectures got un-
favorable reviews circulated a let-
ter, which was signed by about 100
dons, protesting against the Proctor’s
action. As of now, however, the
order has not been rescinded....
Meanwhile, American influence
continues to creep in. A motion by
an American at Wadham to have the
student body of the college formu-
late a written constitution has been
tabled in the same good spirit in
which it was proposed.

At the same time, the latest ugly
American  incident—at least as
viewed by most Americans here—
was an article in a student magazine
by a Harvard graduate pointing out
the faults of Oxford, the merits of
Harvard, and how Oxford could be-
come like Harvard—as it unques-
tionably should!—by following his
suggestions. Long live the Ivy
League!

 

Ideas Need Revision
(Continued from page 2)

quipped in backing up his proposal,
but it would “show the wobbly na-
tions we are the ones they better
ride with.”

It was at least interesting to see
the man pass over the neutral na-
tions, the subsequent value of the
U.N. and the relations with our al-
lies if such a move were taken as
to Russia.

The Senator dealt with medical
care in the same manner. He dis-
missed the question by stating that
there is “no demonstrable need”; a
reemphasis of the old hat that starv-
ing is a local problem.

There is no doubt that Goldwater
is a pleasant well dressed man with
an easy manner of speaking. It was
sad and rather appalling, however,
to think that because this man pro-
fesses a belief in property rights and
individualism the listeners should
continue to nod when he mentioned
Russia and Red China or Education
and the “rich” southern state.

 

   

 

SUN.-MON.

 

 

 

 

TEXACO
Super Service Station
Lexington, Virginia
Corner Main and Nelson
CoeoSeeooceeocoeeoeses

 

 

 

 

Hamric and Sheridan
JEWELERS
Watch and Jewelry Repair
Hand Engraving and Class Rings
HO 3-2022

 

 

 

 

4
Waggy’s Jewelers}
35 S. Main Street }
Phone HO 3-4121 }
THE HOME OF QUALITY

 

 

 

 

 

TOLLEY’S PHARMACY

Prescriptions Filled
Immediately

PURCHASE DRUGS
HO 3-2211

 

 

(Continued from page 2)

fically the movements are opposed
to the recent amendment to the law.
This amendment, passed to prevent
lunch counter integration, has hiked
penalties for trespassing to a max-
imum of a $1,000 fine and one year
in jail.

The methods used by sit-ins in
opposing this law can be divided into
categories. First, there are those
movements which seek to get the law
declared unconstitutional by appeal-
ing court decision to higher courts.
This method is both slower and more
legal than the more frequently used
second method.

The latter method seeks to
change, not the law itself, but the
attitude of the community about
the law. Groups using this meth-
od may be separated into two di-
visions, those who are unwilling to
accept responsibility for their ac-
tions and those who are willing to
do so. The first group does little
good. They break the law and are
arrested, but they avoid punish-
ment by pressuring to prevent
themselves from being tried, by
asking the court for mercy, or by
having the NAACP pay their fines.

Of far greater importance are those
who are willing to go to jail in pro-
test against the law. By suffering for
what they feel is right these partici-
pants hope to bring about a catharsis

 

Arnold Toynbee Returns
To Deliver Address

(Continued from page 1)

kill more thon one man to be a mur-
derer.”

During his previous visit to Lex-
ington, Professor Toynbee viewed the
race into space as “a form of escap-
ism.” “It seems premature to think
of outer space before we’ve learned
to keep the peace with each other on
this planet,” he explained.

A dominent theme of his lecture
series in Lee Chapel was the resurg-
ence to power in the world of what
Toynbee called “the ordinary people”
of the under-developed global areas.

 

He viewed Western pre-eminence in
world affairs as a temporary and rap-
idly changing situation.

 

 

 

 

THE DUTCH INN

For Reservation Call
MRS. KATHERINE ADAMS

 

 

 

 

 

 

HO 3-3433
It’s Good usiness
To Do usiness
with TERER’S

PHARMACY

 

 

 

 

Poe eeeeeeededod Eee

*

= R. L. Hess and Bro. ¢
i JEWELERS 3
; Lexington, Virginia ;
$ HO 3-2833 &
#

Be oertooootefoopofertootetetoobeteteteobtetooboboleh

 

 

Lexington
Laundro Matic

209 S. Main

*

HAND IRONED
SHIRTS

Dry Cleaning

Service

for your convenience

 

 

 

 

 

eye

Catering to Students

eee
LETTER oo ooo dES
5 NEW TOWN INN :
‘ Short Orders—Lunches :

:

%

©00000000000000000000 088
SOCCCOOOCEO CEO OOHOCEOOEE®D
2

o
5
4.
99
o
2
=}
a.
0
é
0
0
5

and Lancer
America’s First Fine
ECONOMY CAR
a

Rockbridge Motor Co.
INC.

Phone HObart 3-3146

 

00000000 0000000000000000000000 0000000 C OOOO EEO LS
FOR ROOM RESERVATIONS—CALL HO 3-2151

LEXINGTON MOTEL
Large Rooms—U, S. 11 By-Pass South
Free TV—Phones—Continental Breakfast
Only Motel in corporate limits of Lexington
i dedededededdedededddddddddddddddddd dd ddddddddddddddd a.

 

iy

 

|

 

 

THE COLLEGE INN

The Best Food in Town

American and Italian

Catering to the Students, Faculty,
and Towns People

OPEN SUNDAYS

~

 

 

 

J)

Brownlee Tackles Problem Of Sit-In Demonstrations;
Confusion Results From Failure To Realize Goals, Aims

in the hearts of those around them
and to get other people active in op-
posing the law. This type of move-..
ment employs non-violence at its
ideal level. This is the type used in
both of the recent trials in Lynch-
burg.

So far I have tried to analyze the
sit-in movement much as a partici-
pant in the movement would analyze
it. There are, however, many ques-
tions which the participant should
ask himself. These include the fol-
lowing: Will not everyone’s follow-
ing his personal beliefs instead of
the law lead to anarchy? By not
waiting for the law to be properly
appealed, does not the second type
of movement oppose not only an un-
just state law but also a just federal-
law system? Do not the sit-ins have
more bad effects than good effects on
the minds of those unsure about in-
tegration? Are not economic boycotts
of other departments of stores with
segregated lunch counters a more ef-
fective and more legal way of ob-
taining the desired results?

Most sit-in participants have asked
themselves these questions, but many

have not. Wrestling with them should |

be a prerequisite for those who do
particiapte in the movements just as
an undertaking of the goals and
methods of the movements should be
a prerequisite for those who criticize
them.

 

WE FEATURE

HEAD SKIS.../

THE MOST TALKED ABOUT D|
SKI ON EVERY SLOPE... HEA
EVERYWHERE IN THE WORLD.

Frantz Supply Company
1209 Colorado Street
Salem, Virginia

DUpont 9-3340

 

Blood Drive Quota Set

(Continued from page 1)

ing difficulty until recently when the
Keydets donated 185 pints in an
excellent turn-out unsurpassed here.
Drive officials hope for a similar
showing from Washington and Lee.

Carlson said the Stonewall Jack-
son Hospital is given a 600 pint quota
for use. This amount is divided be-
tween W&L-Lexington and Buena
Vista. All other blood produced could
well go to make up for the blood
debt the Roanoke Bank has com-
piled from lack of adequate response
in this area.

The director commented that many
W&L students feel that they are
imposed upon—but he was impressed
with the contributions to the Charity
Chest and he again said W&L stu-
dents who need blood get it free
from the Bank. He scored one of the
weaknesses of the program as being
the rule requiring students under
21 to obtain parental permission to
donate. This rule, he says, delays
participation and stifles student in-
terest in the program.

Blood donating, Carlson continued,
is an unending task since the need
for blood never ends.

 

 

 

phe ate ate ate ae ate he the aha le he he Ne he he Be Be Be Ba Ba ae
ee ore ¢ =
+
* ROBERT E. LEE ¢
= BARBERSHOP z
+ :
* David M. Moore :
a Proprietor =
. Ses she ate ate the ahs ale ate she he ae he he she a he .
ee eee ee ee eT ee

 

 

 

Traditional
W&L BLAZER

With University Crest
and Buttons

The
COLLEGE TOWN
Shop
Student Charge Accounts

Welcomed

 

 

 

 

THE

 

THIS ONE’
SATISFIER

Give yourself all the breaks. Try Chesterfield King
your next coffee break. Every satisfying puff

is Air-Softened to enrich the flavor and make it mild.
Special porous paper lets you draw fresh air into
the full king length of straight Grade-A, top-tobacco.

Join the swing to

 

Seminar Speakers Named
(Continued from page 1)

The Seminars in Literature pro-
gram was founded at Washington and
Lee in 1952 to bring to the campus
each year leading speakers in the field
of creative writing, criticism, or teach-
ing. The Seminars are sponsored by
the Department of English and the
Shenandoah,

 

 

es

 

 

FRIEDA
A New Girl Is

Coming to Town
Look for her

next week

“Peanuts”

the great comic strip
by Charles M. Schulz
Read it in the

Ring-tum Phi

 

 

AFIELD

The farther smoke.travels
Air-Softened, the milder, the cooler,
the smoother it tastes

  
 
 

 

 

 

 

KING

© liggett & Myers Tobacco Co.

“SR ERS lo

gpeanteres rere

4

 

 

 

 
 

 

 

TUESDAY
Edition

Che KRing-tum Phi

Washington and Lee Semi-Weekly Newspaper

TUESDAY
Edition

 

Volume LXI

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA, MARCH 7, 1961

Number 40

 

Troubadours’ “Henry IV”
Praised; “A Milestone”

(Editor’s Note: This is a review
of last night’s dress rehearsal of
the Troubadours’ production of
Luigi Pirandello’s “Henry IV.”
Performances begin tonight and
and continue through Friday night,
all at 8:30 p.m. at the Troub
Theatre. Tickets may be reserved
by calling HO 3-2814.

By TOM LYBASS
Tuesday Reviewer

The Troubadour’s performance of
Pirandello’s “Henry IV” is a mile-
stone in the history of W&L theatre.
Facing a play with a challenging
theme, the Troubadours have come
through with an unusually fine per-
performance.

The problem presented by Pi-
randello is a conflict between il-
lusion and reality. An_ Italian
nobleman, finding an opportunity
to escape from an unhappy life
with his treacherous brother, Titi
Belcredi, and unfaithful sweet-
heart, Marchioness Malthilda Spi-
no, at a masquerade party, pre-
tends that he is the medieval Ger-
man ruler Henry IV. For 28 years
he carried on this pretense. Fin-
ally, he is forced to unmask when
his old enemies, Tito and the Mar-
chioness Malthilda, intent upon ex-
posing him reappear at his cha-
teau with a psychiatrist. However,
in the act of unmasking himself,
Henry IV also forces the other
characters to remove their false
fronts.

What is truth? Where is it?
These questions Henry ponders.
Henry never learns the truth about
his antagonists, but he does learn
that truth is not absolute. His con-
clusion is “Truth is what you think
it is.’ Society wears a mask; indi-
viduals wear a mask. It is impossible
to be certain of anything in the
twentieth century, Henry concludes.
For this reason he imagines himself
Henry IV, living in a time about
which everything is certain and all
truth is known.

The play is alive with the action of
ideas in conflict. John Dunnell,
Frank D’Lauro and Bob Aylin,
playing Henry’s councilors, provide
the opening scene with some boister-
ous and spirited word play with
Henry’s unwilling valet, Mervin
Clay.

This first scene and the second
act allow this quartet to display

 

their talents for larking at the ex-
pense of their master. Henry is
disturbed because they have never
given serious thought to ther own
existence.

Following these comics, Tito Bel-
credi, Machioness Malthilda, and the
psychiatrist appear on stage, casting
a shadow on the peacefulness of
Henry’s home. Tito Belcredi is the
chief antagonist. Actually the cause
of Henry’s feigned madness, Tito
appears to be amused by the whole
situation. A proud, conceited man,
full of self-confidence, he sees the
whole thing as a joke. Using this
as his mask he seeks to expose
Henry. Tim Morton showed rare un-
derstanding of this part. Betty Saun-
ders, playing the Marchioness, a little
stiffly perhaps, showed, neverthe-
less, the emotion required of her
part. Jim Applebaum gave an au-
thentic characterization of the psy-
chiatrist. His guesters and actions
were typical of those students of
the human psyche.

Bob Fussell as Henry IV’s nephew
and Susan Howard as the Marchion-
ness’ daughter acted as well as
they could in rather limited roles.
Scott Iacone was on stage very lit-
tle, but still represented well Hen-
ry’s faithful servant.

Bob Allen rose to the challenge
presented in the difficult role of
Henry IV. His feigning of the mad-
ness of the real Henry IV was a
reminder of this play’s affinity to
“King Lear.” Upon Bob fell the
burden of creating an enigmatic
person, whose sanity the audience
must judge for themselves. All of
his speeches were delivered in
such a fashion as to leave no doubt
about the results of his quest for
the truth. Gestures well used and
diction clear, Allen was King
Henry IV not only in name but
also in spirit.

The stage design was most elabor-
ate. The atmosphere lent by this set
was indispensible to the general ef-
fect of the play. The lights and
curtains were for a change well
timed. Dick Roberts and Wink Mc-
Kinnon are to be commended for
their skill in executing these often
overlooked facets of stage work.
This is just one result of Trouba-
dour Director Dr. Cecil L. Jones’
drive for perfection by attention to
detail.

 

Spring Musical Orchestra Chosen
Fifteen Members To Play

The fifteen piece orchestra for the
SWMSFC held its first practice
Monday night. Director Gene John-
son reported that each member prov-
ed to be an experienced and talent-
ed musician, and that the group
was already beginning to sound like
a Broadway orchestra.

Members of the orchestra are:
Gene Brown, guitar; Palmer Pard-
ington, cello; Bill Pardington,
John Samet, Pete Lynn, violin;
Sonny Hess, bass; Ed Maupin, pi-
ano; Bill Lowry, clarinet; John
Turner, French horn; Ed Garret-
son, trombone, Eric Wilson, trum-
pet, Allen Stubbs, drums.

Three Sweet Briar girls—Ann

 

AED Picks Eight Pre-Meds

Brian Vitsky, president of Alpha
Epsilon Delta, pre-medical honorary
society announced today that the
group has accepted eight new mem-
bers.

The new members include Dave
Bevans, Meade Christian, Tommy
Edwards, Ed Holmes, Lee Jeter,
Ronny King, Ross Kyger, and Brant-
ley Sydnor. An iniation banquet
will be held for the initiates on April
10.

Vitsky stated that the main pur-
ing of medical films, the honorary
grams of interest to pre-medical
students. In addition to the view-
pose of the society was to run pro-
fraternity plans to hold a number
of social functions this spring.

 

NOTICE

Carter Fox will be taking orders
for graduation invitations from
seniors in the fraternity houses this
week. He will announce later when
he will be in the Co-op to take
orders there. All transactions are
cash only.

 

Parker, Viola; Irmie Klose, oboe;
and Sally Strain, flute—are also at-
tending the bi-weekly practices.

The music for the SWMSFC show
has been arranged by Mr. Crane
Caulder. Mr. Caulder worked with
Rogers and Hammerstein on Broad-
way and arranged the music for
the Flower Drum Song. Director
Johnson expects that the orchestra
will have approximately twelve
pieces to play. The orchestra will
continue to practice until spring va-
cation and for one week after school
resumes.

  

bg

. Ae a sm —
+ *. : -
; wee :
y

Bob Allen as Henry IV is surrounded by an irrepressible trio of council-
lors Cleft to right: John Dunnell, Frank D’Lauro, and Bob Aylin) in his
quest for truth tonight through Friday at the Troubadour Theatre.

daughter appear tonight at 8:30 p.m.
Pirandello.

 

Bob Fussell as Henry IV’s nephew and Susan Howard as the Marchioness’s

in the Troubadour’s first attempt at
(Photo by Young)

 

Sit-In Movement

sit-in issue will expose both the
movement.

 

W&L Sazeracs Will Spend
Spring Vacation In Florida

The Sazeracs, informal singing
group composed of Washington and
Lee students, will spend their spring
vacation in Florida on an entertain-
ment tour. Included on their agenda
are performances at the Colonnades
Hotel in Palm Beach from April 26
through April 30. Their stay there
will consist of two formal concerts
a day plus extra singing perfor-
mances in the bar.

They will also play informal en-
gagements at local cocktail parties
in Palm Beach.

The first wekend after spring va-
cation, April 7-8, the Sazeracs will
go to Goucher College in Baltimore
for a song fest with other colleges.
Included among the other schools
are Trinity, Harvard and Williams.

The Sazeracs are: Huntley Biggs,

For UCA Discussion Tonight At 7

The University Christian Association will present a panel
examination of the Lunch Counter Sit-In movement tonight
at 7 p.m. in the Student Union. The panel’s discussion of the

Featured among the panelists is Miss Rebecca Owen, a
*religion major and honor student at

 

Billy Martin, Joe Tartt, Eric Wilson,
Henry Harrell, Billy Heald, Dave
Peters, Hardie Karrh, Dave Knight!
and Bob Van Renssellaer.

 

 

 

(Photo by Young)

Is Panel Topic

social and legal aspects of the

Randolph-Macon, who participated
a bi-racial sit-in at Patterson’s Drug
Store in Lynchburg early this Feb-
ruary. As a result of Miss Owen’s
violation of the Virginia’s trespassing

 

laws, she was arrested, prosecuted,
and sentenced to a nineteen day jail |
term.

Miss Owen will confine her dis- |
cussion to the aims and accomplish- |
ments of the Lynchburg sit-in. Rec-
ognized as a liberal intergrationist
from Virginia, she has been invited
to speak at Yale University and
Smith College about her Lynchburg

experience.

The other panelists enclude Dr.
Louis Hodges, Hugo Hoogenboom,
and John Paul. Malcolm Brownlee,
UCA president, will be moderator.

Malcolm Brownlee emphasized
that the discussion will be purely an
objective examination of _ sit-ins,

 

rather than an endorsement or repu-
diation of them. The discussion will
feature a five to ten minute speech
by each panelist, after which the|
participants will entertain questions |
from the audience.

Phi Beta K
McDowell

appa Elects
And Myers

Charles R. McDowell, Jr., a Washington and Lee alumnus
and Richmond newspaper columnist, and Dr. Edward D.
Myers, professor of philosophy here, have been elected to
membership in Phi Beta Kappa. They will be initiated along
with 16 new student members on April 12 by Gamma of

of Virginia chapter here.

McDowell, who is a 1948 graduate of the University, is the

 

Debating Team
To Meet With

e e 2

Miami Of Ohio

Washington and Lee’s crack de-
baters will compete Saturday and
Sunday at Miami University in Ox-
ford, Ohio, the Debate Council has
announced. Bill Buice and Bill
Boardman will debate the affirma-
tive and John Lackey and Richard
Kelley will debate negative in the
Miami meet.

The Debate Council has scheduled
five other meets for the W&L team
this spring. The debaters will travel

| to Baltimore for the West Point

Qualifying Tournament on March
24-25.

Washington and Lee is one of the
few non-conference teams invited
to the Atlantic Coast Conference
Tournament at Columbia, South
Carolina, April 5-6.

An outstanding traveling debate
team from New Zealand will com-
pete with W&L here on March 20.
The debaters will also appear in
Lexington against the Howard Uni-
versity debate team the first week
in April.

Mr. William W. Chaffin, debate
coach and instructor in public speak-
ing, has not chosen the men to
compete in the meets following the
one at Miami this weekend.

The schedule, which was recently
approved by the administration,
will provide ample opportunity for
all members of the team to partici-
pate, according to Mr. Chaffin.

 

Sophomore Edwin L. Kerr
Awarded Physics Prize

The physics department has
awarded a copy of Dr. George Ga-
mow’s most recent book, “Matter,
Earth, and Sky,” to Edwin L. Kerr,
a sophomore, for submitting the best
explanation of the operation of a
relaxation oscillator.

During the past examination per-
iod, the oscillator was on display in
the library exhibit. Freshman and
sophomore students were invited to
submit a paper explaining the oper-
ation of the “Whatzit” as it was call-
ed. In announcing the award, Dr. E.
F. Turner of the physics department
said:

“Mr. Kerr’s paper contained a
thorough and detailed analysis of the
device. Honorable mention should al-
so be made to Mr. R. L. Cafferata,
a freshman whose paper also showed
an excellent understanding of the
oscillator.”

Kthe son of Professor Charles R. Mc-
Dowell of the law faculty. He is a
humor columnist and political re-
porter for the Richmond Times-Dis-
patch. After receiving a B.A. degree
in English here, he received an
M.S. degree from the Graduate
School of Journalism at Columbia
University.

Last year McDowell received the
National Headliners Club award for
his consistently humorous, enter-
taining, and informative columns. In
1960 he published some of the best
of his columns in the book, One
Thing After Another.

McDowell has been with the
Times-Dispatch since 1949 and has
been writing a daily humor column
for four years. He is the Virginia
political correspondent for News-
week magazine.

Dr. Myers has collaborated wth
Dr. Arnold Toynbee on one volume
of Dr. Toynbee’s A Study of History
and himself published last year Edu-
cation in the Perspective of History.
Dr. Myers’ book is a comparative
study of various civilizations’ meth-
ods of handing down the accumulat-
ed experience, knowledge and wis-
dom of humanity from generation to
generation. He employs Toynbee’s
historical framework of civilization
analysis to see how 19 societies over
the past 5,000 years have transmitted
their cultural heritages.

Dr. Myers graduated from Roa-
noke College and holds M.A. and
Ph.D. degrees from Princeton Uni-
versity. He joined the Washington
and Lee faculty in 1949 after four
years as dean of Roanoke College.

Dr. Myers returned to Washing-
ton and Lee this fall after two years
as cultural attache for the United
States Information Agency at the
American Embassy in Bonn, Ger-
many.

 

[IRC To Sponsor Lecture
On ‘Outdated’ Isolationism

The International Relations Club
will sponsor a lecture on “The Obso-
lescence of Isolationism” by Dr.
Walter W. Deshler March 8 at 8 p.m.
in duPont Auditorium.

Dr. Deshler’s appearance at Wash-
ington and Lee is a part of the visit-
ing scholars program of the Univer-
sity Center in Virginia.

Dr. Deshler is professor of geogra-
phy at the University of Maryland.
He has held a Fulbright Fellowship
for studies in British East Africa and
took part in an expedition to north-
ern Kenya in 1951 with the Oxford
University Expeditions Club. He is

a member of the Institute of African
Relations and the Association of
American Geographers.

 

He received his B.S. degree from

More “Whatzit” contests will ap-| Lafayette College and his M.A. and

pear in the future, Dr. Turner said.

Ph.D. degrees from the University

 

Norbert Irvine Exhibit In du Pont

By ED WEBSTER |

The current exhibition of 30 works |
of painting, collage, and sculpture by |
Norbert Irvine in the duPont gal-|
lery represents a great amount of |
versatility and talent. It certainly |
merits the distinction of being the}
first one-man show that Dr. Junkin |
has ever allowed a W&L student.

Irvine’s achievement is even more
noteworthy in view of the short time |
that he has been a practicing artist.
Three years ago he was a business
administration major. He took one
of

Dr. Junkin’s studio courses, |
changed his major to fine arts,
and began to prepare for a career
as an art teacher.

In order to fulfill the require-
ments of his new major, Irvine

stayed at W&L an extra year. He'll
graduate this June. In the mean-
time, he serves as Dr. Junkin’s as-
sistant, teaches two classes for pub-

lie school students, and continues
to experiment in artistic techniques

His current project is a large
bronze bowl, cast by the lost-wax
method. He is also engaged in cre-
ating two paintings by the process

 

of underpainting and glazing.

“T try to explore as many media
as possible,” says Irvine. “Right now
I’m trying to find a style for my-
self.”

Among the most eye-catching
features of his exhibition are sev-
en pices of welded sculpture, in
which irregular pieces of sheet
iron are brought together into
pleasing designs. For the most
part, Irvine doesn’t cut the iron
himself; he accumulates a large
pile of remnants from nearby forg-
es and blacksmiths, and sorts out
those pieces that will go well with
each other.

 

Perhaps his most successful sculp-
tures in the show, in this observer's |
|

opinion, are “Concert,” a rhythmic
series of slender crescents; and
“World’s Fair,” in which a slender |
pylon is set off by circular spaces.
In some of his painting, Irvine;
uses a process of scraping and re-

painting to achieve a_stucco-like
surface. Using only a few pigments,
he mixes and contrasts them to

achieve a surface that is very much
alive.

One of Irvine’s greatest assets,

in fact, is a fine sense of color.
His method of using small spots of
pigment to achieve a vibrant ef-
fect was partly inspired by the
French Impressionists — Monet,
Pissarro, and Bonnard, for ex-
ample—of whom Irvine is a great
admirer.

“Upstream,” a gray, green, and
blue exercise in fish-shapes, and
“Shower,” a refined but lively or-
ganization of geometrical patterns,
are two paintings especially worthy
of notice.

Usually Irvine paints from nature,
with the subject well in mind. For

instance, “Progress” and “Re-
mains”—which at first glance are
merely collection s of abstract
shapes—were actually painted al-

most unaltered from the remains of

| a demolished factory in Buena Vista.

Other works, however—such as
“Sunset” and “Sea-Forest”—started
as exercises in form and color, and
gradually grew to suggest natural
objects. “I put on a lot of titles just
to satisfy the public,” Irvine says.

Irvine, a native Lexingtonian, lives
in Hillside Terrace with his wife-
who also serves as his critic,
Page 2

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

Che King-

Tuesday Edition

Member of Virginia Intercollegiate Press Association

The Grading System

In order to encourage Washington and Lee students to
achieve one of the basic goals of education, that of individual
fulfillment, we ask for an immediate change in the present

grading system.

The change we desire is as follows: the addition of B-plus
and C-plus grades to be recorded on the student’s official trans-
cript. At the same time, we do not necessarily desire that numer-
ical credit for these grades be accounted for in the student’s

grade-point ratio.

A major reason for having a grading system of any type
is to provide some indication of a student’s achievement in
his college work. Grades are necessary so that a graduate school
admissions officer or future employer can have some aid in
measuring a student’s achievement in the past, and then relate
them to his possible potential in the future.

Under the present system, a student’s record shows little
more than a general level of achievement in a particular course.
Many situations occur where the student is discouraged from
working when he finds that there is little chance for him to re-
ceive a grade at the next higher level. Since there is such a
large difference in the amount of work necessary to achieve a
high average within a certain grade level, and since the student
knows that he will receive little more than personal satisfaction
for doing so, he becomes apathetic, and settles for a low average,
still within that same grade category. This situation is unwar-

ranted.

The student must be given incentive to work harder, and
a reward for doing so. If he knows that a plus will be affixed to
his grade if he deserves it, he will work for this. If he knows that
his chance for admission to graduate school or for employment
will be improved if he receives credit for a plus, he will feel

justly rewarded.

We realize that there are many objections to making any
major change in our present marking system and therefore offer
this simple yet basic solution. Such a change would not require
any adjustment of the number of hours required in certain four
and five hour courses. Since there would be no numerical credit
given for a plus grade, a student would be no more penalized
for taking additional hours than he presently is.

It has been argued that any additions to the grading sys-
tem would make it cumbersome, or too limiting for professors
to give true assessment of a student’s accomplishment. Many
professors, however, now give students plus grades at the
end of the semester, although the only place they appear is
outside the professor’s office, and not on the transcript where

they count.

We are also aware that some want to make a more com-
plete change than this system would allow. Nevertheless, we
must face the present situation realistically. The grade-point
ratio, is primarily an internal system used by the school to
regulate academic standards. A change in this might penalize
the student as much as it would help him, leaving him no better
off than where he started. There are certain advantages under
our present marking system, and with the proposed change,
these advantages would be maintained. In addition, our IBM
equipment can handle this revision.

Therefore, we urge that a reappraisal of the present sys-
tem, in the light of this proposal, be made. Now is the time to
promote academic excellence. Now is the time to help each
student achieve his intellectual potential, and, at the same time,

give him his due reward.

A Serious Dissertation Wherein
An Urgent Problem Is Alleviated

By STEVE HENRY

It is with deep moral and theo-
logical concern that we view a
problem currently arising in one
of the outstanding news and enter-
tainment media of our great and
sacred South.

The field to which we refer, of
course, is television. And the prob-
lem is the ever-increasing number
of non-Caucasians appearing each
day and night on the tube.

Because the average Southerner
spends a goodly portion of his wak-
ing hours sprawled in front of his
beaming picture tube, it is easy to
see that such a preponderance of
Negro entertainers and athletes is
certain to create by a process of
osmosis some highly unfavorable
sociological development on_ the
minds of the avid television fans.

Rare is the hour spent in front of
the tube during which our young
and easily twisted minds are not
exposed to such subversive, obvious-
ly Communistic propaganda as Wil-
lie Mays catching a fly ball, Oscar
Robertson shooting a jump shot,
Harry Belafonte singing a Russian
folk song, or Dr. Ralph Bunche
speaking at the United Nations.

The effect of this propaganda on
the alert, eager-to-learn young
minds of the South can be seen by
any discerning, thinking man: IT
WOULD LEAD TO INEVITABLE
INTER-MARRIAGE AND THE END
OF THE WHITE RACE AS WE
KNOW IT.

Obviously, something must be

 

tum Phi

done to halt this monster which
seeks to devour us and all that we
stand for. Responsible citizens must
take action against this unnatural
and curious phenomemon being
pushed down our throats by North-
ern politicians.

To stymie this movement, we can
no longer resort to such time-hon-
ored organizations as did our illus-
trious forefathers. The Klu-Klux
is dead; the Citizens Council is
breathing its last breath.

However, it is our belief that
something can be done, and surpris-
ingly enough can be accomplished
through use of tactics employed
until this time only by our oppon-
ents. We propose a nonviolent, dem-
onstration-type rebellion against the
tryants of television.

Non-violence has been used
against us with remarkable success.
Bitter examples are Richmond and
Lynchburg, Virginia, where we suf-
fered untimely defeats. Therefore,
for us to use the same tactics for

The Late Unpleasantness In Lynchburg

 

By JOHN PAUL

The recent sit-ins have given rise
to confusion as to the state of the
law. As an illustration of this con-
fusion consider the contrast in the
opinions of two persons of some
esteem in the Democratic party.
Eleanor Roosevelt approves of the
sit-ins, calling them “simply wond-
erful.” However, former President
Harry S. Truman has stated that,
“If anyone came to my store and
sat down, I’d throw him out... Pri-
vate business has its own rights and
can do what it wants.”

This article is intended to clarify
to some extent the legal aspects of
the sit-in movement. There will be
no attempt to deal with problems
other than those raised in a situa-
tion similar to that of the sit-in in
a Lynchburg drug store. Thus, fed-
eral jurisdiction over interstate com-
merce is not brought in and the legal
questions are somewhat restricted.

A sit-in is defined for our purpose
as a quiet, orderly refusal to leave
the premises of a restaurant or
lunch counter by persons who have
been refused service by the pro-
prietor and whom the proprietor has
asked to leave.

The Virginia criminal trespass
statute (Va. Code Section 18.1-173)
has been on the books for years. In
1960 the legislature (in anticipation
of sit-ins?) raised the maximum
fine and jail sentence to one thou-
sand dollars and twelve months re-
spectively. The gist of the statute is
that if a person purposefully enters

LETTERS

EpitoR

(Ed. note: The following letter
was received by the Ring-tum Phi
via Dr. Cole. We have informed
Mr. Tiffany that conservative Sen.
Barry Goldwater spoke here last
week.)

Dr. Fred C. Cole, President
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, Virginia

Dear Dr. Cole:

Yesterday’s Washington Post car-
ried a summary of a speech made
by Graham Morison at the recent
ODK Assembly. The Post’s story in-
dicated that Mr. Morison was high-
ly critical of the conservative ele-
ments in Virginia politics and ex-
tolled “liberal” views of government.

As an alumnus of the University
who emphatically disagrees with Mr.
Morison’s reported remarks, may I
express the hope that an opportuni-
ty will be found for an advocate
of conservative principles of govern-
ment to address the Student Body?

If you have no objection, I would
appreciate your delivering this letter
to The Ring-tum Phi for possible
publication. I would like the Student
Body to know that there are alum-
ni, and I would guess that they are
in the great majority, who feel that
the trend toward the welfare state
in disregard of constitutional princi-
ples threatens the basic rights and
liberties of all Americans.

With warmest personal regards, I
am

 

Sincerely yours,
Wallace L. Tiffany
Attorney -at-Law

Lamda Chi Alpha Elects
New Slate Of Officers

John W. Boyle, Jr., junior from
Roanoke, was recently elected presi-
dent of the W&L chapter of Lambda
Chi Alpha.

Also elected were Bob Holland,
vice president; Bruce Boberson, treas-
urer; Bob Mottley, secretary; Tom
Bower, house manager; Rusty McNab,
pledge trainer; George Coward, rush
chairman; and Andy Leonard, ritu-
alist and intramural manager.

 

 

Notices

Calyx elections will be held next
Monday March 13 at 2 p.m. instead
of the previously announced time
of 5 p.m.

or remains upon another’s property
after having been forbidden to do so,
such a person is guilty of a mis-
demeanor and punishable by fine or
imprisonment.

There are also two recently en-
acted statutes providing that it is a
misdemeanor either to instigate a
erson to commit an unlawful tres-
pass or to conspire to do so.

It should be emphasized that these
statutes embody the present exist-
ing law on the question in the State
of Virginia. The constitutionality
of such laws has never been denied
by a court of justice sitting any-
where in the United States. Those
who indulge in sit-ins are simply
violating the law as it exists at
present.

However, those who do violate
this trespass statute in sit-ins con-
tend, perhaps justifiably, that the
law, though constitutional on its
face, is unconstitutional in applica-
tion when it lends itself to the en-
forcement of racial discrimination.

Legal Contentions Raised

The participants in a sit-in may
raise in their favor the following
arguments:

(1) At common law an inn-keeper
had a duty to take in all who could
pay and were not drunk or dis-
orderly if he had space. This con-
tention fails in the situation under
discussion because a restaurant or
lunch counter, without facilities for
lodging, is not an inn.

(2) The sit-in participants also

 

have raised the proposition that the

By JIM HALEY

Senator Goldwater is a unique and
colorful man. He is unique because
he is a statesman among politicians.
He is colorful because his life, both
past and present, has been exciting.
He has the distinction of being the
only member of Congress with a
command pilot’s rating as a Briga-
dier General in the United States
Air Force Reserve. He has called
Walter Reuther, President of the
United Auto Workers and Gold-
water’s deadly enemy, the “most
dangerous man in America today.”
He helped build the first radio sta-
tion in Phoenix, he has navigated
700 miles along the Colorado River
in a wooden boat, has flown Army
fighters across the Atlantic, and has
written a best selling book, The
Conscience of a Conservative.

Goldwater’s politics have been
consistently conservative. He be-
lieves that there exists a bascially
conservative feeling within all
Americans.

Goldwater feels that the country
has long been ready to support a
conservative candidate willing to
take a stand on these issues:

1. To attack the welfare state,
farm price support, and the labor
monopoly.

2. To champion the state rights
cause in the field of education.

3. To propose a militant anti-
Soviet foreign policy.

But what of the present admin-
istration’s policy concerning these

Raven Rants

 

By GERRY OUELLETTE

Once before, in the form of a
rebuttal, we took a public stand on
what we thought was the function
of the Troubadour Theatre at W&L.
With the first presentation tonight of
Pirandello’s Henry IV, it would be
appropriate to reiterate this position.

In the past the Troubadours have
brought to this campus a variety of
productions, some of which appar-
ently disappointed a few students
(and professors). These few com-
plained that the play they had wit-
| nessed was “a little too esoteric, too
intellectual” for a general audience.

The Troubadour Theatre should,

 

The Assimilation Committee will

 

(Continued on page 4)

Union.

meet tonight at 7 in the Student!

| we feel, try to please the great ma-
| jority of the W&L society, since it
is here placed and subsidized for
the benefit of us all. However, we

owner of a private business having
once invited the general public into
his place of business may not dis-
criminate against persons on the ba-
sis of race. This argument is built
on the words of Justice Black in
the case of Marsh v. Alabama (1946):

“Ownership does not always mean
absolute dominion. The more an
owner, for his advantage, opens up
his property for use by the public
in general, the more do his rights
become circumscribed by the statu-
tory and constitutional rights of
those who use it.”

However, this line of reasoning
has not been enlarged to include
restaurants within the scope of the
public facilities cited by Mr. Justice
Black.

(3) The most forceful argument
that the sit-in participants may em-
ploy has yet to be ruled upon by
the Supreme Court. This is the argu-
ment that the use of law and law
enforcement procedures to prosecute
for criminal trespassing persons ar-
rested for sitting-in constitutes ac-
tion on the part of the state which
is unconstitutional as a violation of
the equal protection clause of the
Fourteenth Amendment.

This contention, based on the
reasoning used by the Supreme
Court in deciding the case of Shelley
v. Kraemer (1948), would seem to
be that a restaurant owner may re-
fuse to serve Negroes but that when
he utilizes the police power of the
state to eject or prosecute them the

 

Fourteenth Amendment comes in to

proposals? Obviously, there exists
no positive policies towards them.
Yet Goldwater feels that Kennedy is
“now showing signs of carrying out
what he told Southern voters, name-
ly, that he would accept the Demo-
cratic platform in order to get nom-
inated, but that he would not carry
out its provisions.”

However, no conservative opposi-
tion to Kennedy’s subdued radical-
ism has yet arisen. Goldwater be-
lieves strong opposition will arise,
and adds that “conservatives must
formulate positive programs and
proposals for action.” Verbal criti-
cism of radicalism has been all that
conservatives have thus far offered.

Wherein does sufficient national
power lie to promote action? This is
the question which faces the op-
ponents of extreme liberalism, “the
spirit of which is liberty” as one col-
lege newspaper termed it.

At present, there are two great
conservative bodies now existing
in the United States. These are the
conservative Republicans and the
Southern Democrats. A coalition be-
tween these powers could be the
force needed to launch a nation-
wide campaign for a conservative,
or at least moderate, government.
Each of these forces must be willing
to make concessions if any real
movement on a national basis is to
begin.

Barry Goldwater stated in the
National Review that “the best hope
of winning is to continue to get

 

young leaders in the South who are

should not forget, particularly when
the matter relates to a possible art
medium, who we are and for what
purpose we are here.

The theatre can be a means of
entertainment; but it can also be so
much more. Obviously the people
who run the State and Lyric are
better disposed and equipped to
entertain us, if this is our aim. How-
ever, if our theatre is made to be-
come solely and primarily a means
of entertainment, it is, in our esti-
mation, being prostituted.

As we see it. the Troubadour
Theatre should be a further ele-
ment in our education.

There should be no question in
~w minds whether we should or

 

should not see every play pre-
sented at the Troubadour; this

 

 

   
 
   

I HAVE A JEALOUS OF You?!!!
RORY THING \T) WA HAHA HA HAHA
BECAUSE YOURE —
PEA OF ie: fu

 

  

  

 

 

 

 

HA HAHAHA!!!

as

 

 

 

 

T CAN'T REMEMBER EVER
HAVING A THEORY EXPLODED
QUITE SO FAST!

 

 

 

 

Legal Contentions Arise From Sit-Ins

force as a bar to such “state action.”
It has been contended that the
licensing of resturants by the states
also constitutes “state action.”

Thus far these contentions have
not met with much success. The
leading case at the moment is one
determined by the Supreme Court
of North Carolina and which was
not appealed further. It was argued
by the Negro defendants that “state
action” existed in the enforcement
by the North Carolina courts and
police officials of a criminal tres-
pass statute through which private
discrimination was effected. Reject-
ing this contention, the court held
no “state action” was discernible in
the enforcement of such a statute.
Private conduct alone constituted the
discrimination and the Fourteenth
Amendment does not restrict merely

rivate conduct.

The problem here is at what point
apparently private acts become
“state action” through court enforce-
ment. This question will ultimately
be presented to the Supreme Court.
On the basis of precedent there is
enough latitude for the Supreme
Court to decide either way. Another
factor which may have some bearing
upon determination of the Court is
that if state action is found in the
enforcement of the trespass law,
restaurant owners may be forced to
enforce their discrimination by “self-
help” which is certainly not con-
ducive to an orderly and peaceful
society.

Senator Goldwater Looks To The South |
For Leaders In New Conservative Effort

dedicated and who will work as they
have been working. Conservaties
should work within the framework
of the Republican Party to the end
that delegates, precinct committee-
men, and so on, are of the conserva-
tive mind.”

This is a small concession for
Southerners to make. The South
should forget that Daddy and
Grandaddy voted against the Repub-
licans because they were all carpet-
baggers and scalawags. The South,
with its “young leaders,” should
forget ancient political animosities.

The conservative Republicans, who
hold great power outside of the
South and particularly in the West,
must be willing to ally themselves
with the Southern Democrats. These
men perhaps believe that southern
conservatism is based upon big-
otry and prejudice. This, however,
is not now the case, and conserva-
tives of the North and West must
realize it. Only when these two great
forces are firmly allied can real
progress to conservatism be made.

But what of a leader for this
now hypothetical force? Washing-
ton and Lee men saw the potential
leader of this force last Wednes-
day night. Barry Goldwater has the
integrity, the personality, the in-
tellect, and the judgment to lead
a consolidation of conservative
power on a national basis.

All conservatives should place
their political standards in one camp.
They have their leader and should

 

rally to him.

Troubadour Theatre Seen As Avant-Garde Group

should be a matter of personal ob-
ligation.

We should as students want to at-
tempt to discern behind the produc-
tion the element of creative genius.
A respect for the tradition of art in
the theatre is not an empty formal-
ity. “It is the recognition on the part
of the audience that imagination,
content, and form are necessary in
any work of art, and that it is not
granted to everyone to possess these
qualities,” so says Professor Oreste
F. Pucciani.

The Troubadour Theater offers us
a chance to momentarily place aside
all the incidentals of a dollar and
cents environment. “All values, even
human values, are subordinated to
the central task of creation: an at-
titude that can exist only in a society
in which art itself constitutes a
positive value,” Pucciani adds in his
description of the French Theatre.
And this, we believe, can be true of
the Troubadour in our W&L society,
if only those individuals in the so-
ciety will realize the importance of
such sentiments.

We would like to visualize our
university theatre as an American
avant-garde theatre. In such a
theatre the production lies most im-

 

portant, and this is certainly con-
(Continued on page 4)

 

 
THE RING-TUM PHI

Page 3

 

 

 

Oxford & Cambridge L-X Teams To Play Here

Ist Visit In U.S.
For English

By RANDY COLE

The Washington and Lee lacrosse
team will play host to the com-
bined Cambridge and Oxford team
as the British students begin their
tour of America on March 24. The
Generals are the first team on a
schedule which includes such pow-
ers as Army, the University of Vir-
ginia, and Johns Hopkins Univer-
sity. This will be the first time a
foreign country has sent a team to
America for competition in lacrosse

Actually this is not the first time
that an exchange has taken place
between an American and a foreign
team. In 1956 the Generals went to
England and played a similar com-
bined team of Cambridge and Ox-
ford beating them by a 14-3 score. In
1958 Johns Hopkins traveled to Eng-
land and played this same team
winning by a large margin. Plans are
being formulated for an Australian
team to compete in America next
year, but as of yet, nothing is defi-
nite. A combined W&L-UVa. la-
crosse team toured Australia in the®
summer of 1959.

This combined team will repre-
sent about the best brand of col-
lege lacrosse in England and will
vie against most most of the tap}
teams in the U.S. Washington and’
Lee is considered to be within the
top twenty ranked teams in this
country.

The English team will arrive in the
States on March 21 in New York
City and will then travel to Annapo-
lis to practice. It will arrive in Lex-
ington on March 23 in time to watch
the Generals open their season
against Maryland. The following day
they will play the Generals here.

There are differences between the
British rules for lacrosse and those
under which Americans usually
compete. In England a team plays
twelve men and there are no sub-
stitutions during the game. They
have little equipment and lack such
essentials as helmets and knee pads.
In America a team fields eleven men
and substitutions are permitted up to
a specified number. When American
teams travel to England we play
under their rules, and thus they
will follow ours during their tour.

Concerning the Generals’ chances !
in this contest, Coach Bob McHenry |
feels that “we were a much better ;

(Continued on page 4)

 

 

An example of the lacrosse you will see March 24 on Wilson Field.

 

Swimmers Finish Successful Season

By BRIAN DORSK

{ sWashington and Lee’s swimming
team closed out its first season under
Coach Norris Eastman with a re-
sounding 54-32 win over Norfolk
Division of William and Mary. The
meet took place in the Doremus
Gym pool on Monday, Feb 27. After
being pitched into the pool by the
jubilant swimmers, Coach Eastman
emerged pleased with the times
turned in by his swimmers and the
final team record of six wins and
four losses.

The victories were won over
Roanoke College, UVa., Catholic
U., Georgetown U., Wake Forest,
and Norfolk Division of W&M.
The losses were to West Va. U.,
Maryland, American U., and East
Carolina College. The Generals
scored a total of 509 points on the
season compared to 431 for their
opponents,

The Generals swimmers were un-
defeated in the 50 yard freestyle.
Co-captain Jim Parker won the
event in all ten meets. In the 200
breaststroke the Generals were also
the masters as Elliott Maynard won
ten straight. These two events were

 

 

 

>

,

,

>

‘

; College Outlines
Hymarx Outlines
( Made Simple Series
‘

>

>

>

>

s

 

LL ee

try our

The Book Shop

W. Washington Street

Barrons Series
Data Guides
Vocabulary Cards

 

oh oLooeofoogeoentooeoeodeafoodooegengocteos ofecbech efoto cfocteogetecteotetectecdeeeogeteepoetetecteoteere
We Feature

SEALTEST
Dairy Products

“To get the best get Sealtest’”’

over twenty different products in addition to
delicious Sealtest ice cream

Block and Crushed Ice

Your favorite mixes—Ice Cold

a
Maple-Rock Distributors, Inc.

Phone

4
ends oho ofe fe ofe oe ofe ole ofe fe oe oe fe ole oe ofe oe of oe of fe ole of of fe oh oe oe of of oe ole ofe of ole afe ole ofp fe ooo ofe ofoofenfe ofeofe of

ot

he Mee ce Me Me Me BeBe Be ie Be Me Be Ba Ba tte Ba te ta tte Be She Ba de Ba Mn Ba aera Be te Be
lh li ee a lk ee hh le ie le he he hh he he he ie ha he he od

HO 3-2168

 

 

STUDENTS

 

   

ACCOUNTS INVITED HERE
Member F. D. LC.

 

 

the top scoring events for the team
with 67 and 62 points respectively.

Individual high scorers for the
season were Jim Parker with 81
points, Elliott Maynard with 77,
Herb Jancke with 55, and Charlie
Gummey with 44.

Among the new records set this
season were those in the 50 and 100
freestyle by Jim Parker, 200 breast-
stroke and 200 butterfly by Elliott
Maynard, 440 freestyle by Herb

 

By HARRY MEEM |

This spring finds the varsity base-
ball team blessed with better prac-
tice conditions, weather-wise, than |

 

The only senior on this year’s

last year had some hard

last year. At that time snow limited | luck losing five of the games he

them to three practice sessions out- |
side, and forced them to use Dore-|

| pitched by a margin of one run. His
batting adds strength to the Gen-

mus Gym and the VMI fieldhouse | &T@ls’ attack, too.

during the month before the sea-|
son’s opener.

This lack of outdoor
greatly manifested itself last year, |
beginning at Parris Island, where |
the team suffered four defeats at

_
ractice | 8°
P | Dartmouth

Once again this year, the Gener-

|als face a rugged schedule of 23

ames. They pley such schools as
and Harvard, North

| Carolina State of the A.C.C.; William
| and Mary, Richmond, West Virginia,

the hands of the Marines and Cor-| and George Washington from the

nell due to lack of practice on rou-
tine plays that could have been|
worked on outdoors, and especially |
due to a lack of batting practice. |
This curse lasted through the re-|
mainder o fthe season. The team as|
a unit was just beginning to jell,
when the season closed with a 13)
inning, 1-0 victory over West Vir-|
gbinia. The season’s record for the
Generals was 3-16.

This year’s team promises to im-
prove upon that record. The Gener-
als suffered no losses due to gradu-
ation, and the only regulars who
won't be back are Mike Monier, first
base, who’s nursing a broken ankle,
and right fielder Dennis McKay, who
transferred at the end of last semes-
ter.

Returning lettermen include
catcher Jim Russ, pitcher Roy Car-
penter and Phil Sharp (who won
all of last year’s victories), second
baseman Park Gilmore, team captain
Ned Hobbs at shortstop, Chuck Lane
at third base, and outfielders Bobby
Williams and Robin Wood. Other re-
turning veterans of last year’s cam-
paign are catcher Keith Carr, sec-
ond baseman Buck Rose, and out-

| Southern Conference, and such Lit-
| tle Eight Schools as Bridgewater,
| Norfolk William and Mary, Hamp-
| den-Sydney, Lynchburg, and Ran-
dolph-Macon. During spring vaca-

tion they will play Elon College (a
team they lost to 4-3 in 10 innings
last year, due to a bad-hop ground
ball), East Carolina College, and a
Fort Gordon, Georgia nine which
replaces the Parris Island Marines,
who dropped all sports.

This year’s team will have an in-
creased coaching staff. Coach Joe

 

Weather, Lettermen Help WEL Baseball Squad

Lyles, last year’s head mentor, re-

team is Roy Carpenter, pitcher-third | turns to that spot, and he’ll be aided
baseman from Bryan, Texas. Car-| by Coach Buck Leslie, who also as-
penter

sists in football during the fall.

This year’s freshman class sup-
plies a number of pitchers to aug-
ment the work of Carpenter and
Sharp. Last year’s team carried only
four pitchers, with third baseman
Chuck Lane occasionally doing late
inning relief duty. This year there
are six freshmen working out on
the mound. including three left-
handers, a non-existent commodity
on last year’s team. Southpaws Brice
Gamber, Bill Marmion, and Ed Nor-
ton are all trying for positions on
the squad, along with several right-
handers.

There are also freshmen and up-
perclassmen out for the first time
trying for every other position on the
field, so Coach Lyles should have
a deep bench to work with this year.

Asked about this year’s prospects,
the coach had this to say: “I feel we
face one of the toughest schedules
of any team of this university. We

(Continued on page 4)

 

   

(Author of “I Was a Teen-age Dwarf,” “The Many
Loves of Dobie Gillis,” etc.)

    
 

“LOVE IN REVERSE”

They met. His heart leapt. “I love you,” he cried.

“Me, too, hey,” she cried.

 

 

Jancke, and diving by Hunter

fielders Sandy Smith and Gregg
Tracht.

Allen. All four are sophomores.

Prospects

The prospects for next season are
bright according to Coach Eastman.
Fourteen lettermen will return,

 

Graduation will take Parker, Pur-
nell, and Tracht. In addition to this
year’s freshmen, who will move up
next year, will be the return of
John Betts an outstanding free-
styler.

 

 

 

For those extra pieces

of
FURNITURE

for your room
see our stock
before buying

VARNER AND POLE

Scholar dollars
travel farther

with SHERATON
HOTELS
STUDENT-
FACULTY
DISCOUNTS

 

 

 

Save on the going prices
of going places at
Sheraton Hotels.
Special save-money rates on |
singles and greater savings per__ |
person when you share a room
with one, two or three friends.
Generous group rates arranged
for athletic teams, clubs
and college clans on-the-go.
For rates, reservations or
further information, get in
touch with:

MR. PAT GREEN

College Relations Dept.

Sheraton Corporation

470 Atlantic Avenue

Boston 10, Mass. |

BROWN’S
CLEANING
WORKS

We call for

and deliver
HO 3-2013 14 Randolph St.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Smart Collegiate Clothes
For Spring

Galey and Lord
SPORT COATS

in all the new patterns, completely washable

$25

SUMMER SLACKS FROM

$6.95

McGregor and Manhattan Sportswear

Bermuda Shorts From

$5
J. Ed Deaver & Sons, Inc.

Main Street

SHHHHSSHSHHHSSHSHHHSSHOHHHSSHOHHHSSHOHHHOECHOHHOHSSCHHGOKSSCHHEHSSLHOSESELECES

“Tell me,” he cried, “are you a girl of expensive tastes?”

“No, hey,” she cried, “I am a girl of simple tastes.”

“Good,” he cried, “for my cruel father sends me an allowance
barely large enough to support life.”

“Money does not matter to me,” she cried. “My tastes are
simple, my wants are few. Just take me riding in a long, new,
yellow convertible and I am content.”

“Goodbye,” he cried, and ran away as fast as his chubby little
legs could carry him, for he had no convertible, nor the money to
buy one, nor the means to get the money, short of picking up his
stingy father by the ankles and shaking him till his wallet
fell out.

He knew he must forget this girl but, lying on his pallet at the
dormitory, whimpering and moaning, he knew he could not.

At last an idea came to him: though he did not have the money
to buy a convertible, perhaps he had enough to rent one!

Hope reborn, he rushed at once to an automobile rental
company and rented a yellow convertible for $10 down plus 10¢
a mile, and with many a laugh and cheer drove away to pick
up the girl.

      
 

  

 

r 4

ok. VE

Comet 2 =
oa
ee

  

- ce
cor

2

iT _ a

    
  

==,

   

es

“7 ° : 7 ies con cae
Sui bility dig ste

“Oh, goody,” she said when she saw the car. “This suits my
simple tastes to a ‘T’. Come, let us speed over rolling highways
and through bosky dells.”’

And away they drove. All that day and night they drove and
finally, tired but happy, they parked high on a windswept hill.

“Marlboro?” he said.

“Yum yum,” she said.

They lit up. They puffed with deep contentment. “You
know,” he said, “you are like a Marlboro—mild and fresh
and relaxing.”

“But there is a big difference between Marlboro and me,” she
said, ‘because I do not have a Selectrate filter nor do I come
in soft pack or flip-top box.”

They laughed. They kissed. He screamed.

“What is it, my dear,” she cried, alarmed.

“Look at the speedometer,” he said. ““‘We have driven 200
miles and this car costs 10¢ a mile and I have only $20 left.”

“But that’s exactly enough,” she said.

“Yes,” he said, “but we still have to drive home.”

They fell into a profound gloom. He started the motor and
backed out of the parking place.

“Hey, look!” she said. ‘“The speedometer doesn’t move when
youre backing up.”

He looked. It was true. “Eureka!” he cried. “That solves my
problem. I will drive home in reverse. Then no more miles will
register on the speedometer and I will have enough money
to pay!”

“T think that’s a marvelous idea,” she said, and she was right.
Because today our hero is in the county jail where food, clothes
and lodging are provided free of charge and his allowance is
piling up so fast that he will have enough money to take his girl
riding again as soon as he is released.

© 1961 Max Shulmaa

Backward or forward, a fine, new experience in smoking is
yours from the makers of Marlboros—the unfiltered, king-
size Philip Morris Commander. Welcome aboard!
Page 4

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

Solution For Urgent Problem

(Continued from page 2)

our own purpose, is to create a
stroke of pure genius, to beat the
enemy at its own game, so to speak.

For a beginning, we suggest that
interested citizens begin immediate
negotiations with their local tele-
vision station owners. The request
should be simple and straightfor-
ward, namely that local stations
carry no more network programs
which feature any non-Caucasian
entertainment.

If this fair and well-meant plea
were not accepted, then we must
resort to the inevitable sit-in. With
the aid of local ministers, public
officials, and co-eds from the various
state universities, the South could
begin its return to normalcy. It is
our purpose here to outline a few

 

Troub Theatre

(Continued from page 2)

ceivable in our case. Further, artis-
tic and intellectual values should
balance questions of entertainment;
the avant-garde is the opportunity
to experiment in the real of the
theatre as an art form. Through such
a theatre, dramatic techniques evolve
and change, and dramatic art pro-
gresses.

Because a medium of art such as
the avant-garde theatre is can only
persist through the total devotion of
the artists to the cause of pure art,
an unrealistic view in the work-a-
day world in which we will live
after graduation, our American so-
ciety offers little chance for its suc-
cess. In our case, however, the art
theatre can do very well, for in a
sense it lies beyond the trials and
tribulations of the professional.
We can have our art and prosper in
it too.

 

 

STATE

LEXINGTON, VA.
| _MOBART 32-3424 |

 

 

STARTS WED.

Matinee 2 p.m.
Evening 7-9:15 p.m.

The BIG One
5 Academy Award Nominations

 

wows

ri

Screenplay by 1SOBEL LENNART

DINAMERRILL ‘ovecies br mo znvenanee

TECHNICOLOR® ramus WARNER BROS,

of the actions which could be taken
on the local level to correct the
present abominable situation.

1. A boycott of all network tele-
vision programs. This could be ac-
complished very simply; no one
would turn on his television set. At
one master stroke, therefore, we
could eliminate the direct source of
the unfavorable propaganda.

2. A boycott of all firms, both lo-
cal and national, which advertises on
the local station. Of course, this
might result in certain inconven-
iences for the average person, but
the individual must be considered
expendable in such an_ earth-
shaking movement.

3. And most important. A sit-in
must be staged at the local televi-
sion station. Members of the most
prominent families must take part in
these demonstrations for any degree
of success to be achieved. Once
these prominent agitators are thrown
in jail for trespassing, indignation
will be so wide-spread among the
town’s citizenry that the original
boycott will be totally successful.
Judging from the results acquired
by the opposition using these same
tactics, our mission would soon be
accomplished. The local station
would have to provide its viewing
audience with programs suitable for
public consumption.

The medium, void of sports, music,
and all except the most trivial local
news, will be vastly improved. The
Negro will be banned (except of
course, in re-showing of Gone with
the Wind) and our heritages and
traditions will once again have been
upheld against overpowering odds.

EWI

TUES.-WED.

 

 

“LE commend
it to your
attention”

—The N

 
 
    

a RC
ECSU
for a well

the cloddish aad venal types
et! ete: ie New Yorker

 

 

 

Oxford And Cambridge Lacrosse Teams To Visit W &L

(Continued from page 3)
team in 1956 when we defeated them
than we are now,” and that “they
will be stronger now than they were
five years ago.” But Coach Bob is
very optimistic about his team’s
chances and feels that although the
team lacks experience, it has a great
deal of hustle and spirit.

Coach McHenry feels that perhaps
the brightest aspect of the lacrosse
exchanges is that they may lead
eventually to international lacrosse,
and possibly to lacrosse in the Olym-
pics. At the present time Australia,
Canada, England and the United

 

Spring Baseball Prospects
(Continued from page 3)

face a good hitting ball club in East
Carolina, and Richmond usually has
one of the best teams in the South.”

“All the returning lettermen we
have will help us win more games.
A lot depends on how well Car-
penter and Sharp hold up, and how
well Gamber comes through. I ex-
pect everybody to improve. Ned
Hobbs, who’s a real fine ballplayer,
should improve both in the field and
at bat. Robin Wood in center is one
of the best defensive players I
know, and I look for him to improve
at bat. We have a good double play
combination in Hobbs and Gilmore,
but the lack of experience at first
base will hurt. Right now Bob Funk-
houser seems to have the inside
track there due to his hustle.”

 

Radio Hospital

*
Radio, TV, Phonograph
Sales and Service

*
HO 3-3531

 

 

 

 

 

Sie Me dhe ste Be Me Be he Bc Be Bo BeBe Be Be Be Be Be Be Be Be
ee ee Se eS Se Se ee ee

 

nA
-

ae
>

THE NEW

White Top

Restaurant
*

Be Beale Mo Be e-Mete tele
Tere ae eae a ee

A personal invitation
to the
Students

eo Be Se ee 1 ie oe a Be Be Me Me Me he she he he le le he he de
oer et ee ee Ss ee eS ee ee ee eS

Try our delicious foods
Route 60 East

Be
eee sss ss eee eee eee ee

SS he se se se Be he the she
TS re ere ee

the.

OO
ee se eS ee Se ee

 

 

 

*
%
*

 

 

 

 

LEXINGTON
CLEANERS

Phone HO 3-3813 108 S. Jefferson

The Southern Inn

Cordially invites you to make this your headquarters for good food
Here you get the best food for the most reasonable prices

Our Specialties:

Steaks, Chicken, Country Ham, and the best sandwiches
in town

Meet your friends here

 

 

 

 

Green Valley Motel

One Mile North on
U. S. Highway No. 11

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA
HO 3-2195

 

 

Open a convenient student Checking account
TODAY

at

Rockbridge National Bank

Member Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation

 

 

Soho obepbebeb eee

White’s Music

Store

(Opposite State Theater)
ey
Phonographs—Hi-Fi
Expert Repair Service
ik
5 W. Nelson St. Lexington, Va.

HO 3-3522

EEE EEE LE EEE HEH EE

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ROCKBRIDGE LAUNDRY

and
Dry Cleaners

Shirts Transparently Wrapped
for Freshness
*
AGENTS:

Fraternities, Dorms and Co-op

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

MYERS
HARDWARE
COMPANY
%

ote
COOOOOSSOSOOOHOEOOOS SESS | ieee eeteoheehehy
SCOOOOHOHSSHOSSSHOSSHSSSSSSEHSSHHOHSSEESSHSSOHOH SOS SOOO OEES

Ted’s Steak House
Finest Foods
Choice Meats

Ww
SUNDAY DINNERS

Route 60 Buena Vista

Beebe ofordorde be ate ofr dee rferfe fe ferfeede ode ode teste desde rde

IDEAL
BARBER SHOP

QUICK SERVICE

States have teams, and the game is
beginning to catch on in other coun-
tries.

The British team has to pay for
its own expenses to come to and play
in America and as a result Wash-
ington and Lee has guaranted them
a nominal fee. The ticket price will
be only $1 per person and Coach
McHenry hopes that most of the stu-
dents will turn out for the game to
“support the team and watch a real
fine ball game.”

Che Ring-tum Phi

Tuesday Edition

The Ring-tum Phi is published Tues-
day and Friday Goring the college year.
It is printed by the Journalism Labor-
oor Press, ashington and Lee Uni-
versity. The mailing address is Box
899, Lexington, Va,

Entered as second class matter Sep-
tember 20, 1946 at the Post Office, Lex-
ington, Va., under the act of March

eeecceoeeee
09000600000
ere rto ste sfesfo shorter

 

 

he ale ae the she alle she ae ale ale Be oe ale she ale se she ole Bie alle ole Ble alle alle alle ale sc Ne oc Bc Bs Bs Be Me Me he Be ole He le ale he le oe ete
ee ee eT Tee ee eeereeeeeererererrrrrrrrerre ee eer

 

National Advertising Representative:

Th N i . . * .

ee eee ee Shirt Service as You Like it

II: scicacteiteinsins R ll Page, ?

Business Manager. Huntley’ Biggs Quality Cleaning and Pressing
Editorial Board

Managing EditoKececssesceemn Bill Roberts UNIVERSITY CLEANERS

Assistant Managing Editor................6008
Steve Galef
.Bob Bridewell
eg? eo ie Steve Guild
Associate Editors........ Lanny Butler, Bill
Smith, Ronnie King
Photography Editor................. Bill Young
Advertising Managerv.......... Jerome Dattel
Circulation Manager........ Peter Agelesto

 

HO 3-3622

*
“Your Campus Neighbors”

 

ee
Ee ee ee eee ee Se eee
Sie ste Me Me Be he se he Me Be Me te te he a Me ta te ae Bae
ee ee ee ee

 

 

 

he he he he Be aBe Be Bc Be BeBe Be Be Me Me Be Be Be Be Bs Be Be Be Be Be BeBe Be Be Be Bs Ba Bs Bae Be Ba tae
rrr rTrTrrtrtrtreererererererererererererrrrrtrrtrrtrtrrte

 

  
 
  

WE FEATURE

HEAD SKIS...

THE MOST TALKED ABOUT
SK! ON EVERY SLOPE...
EVERYWHERE IN THE WORLD.

The First National Bank

of Lexington
*

Frantz Supply Compan
PP dised has special checking accounts

1209 Colorado Street
Salem, Virginia

or student
DUpont 9-3340 f d '

 

 

 

 

  
 
 
    

The farther smoke
travels Air-Sottened,
the milder, the coo/er,

the smoother it tastes

  
 

Sw 7
THE SATISFIER

‘This king wrote the book on flavor. Every satisfying
puff is A/r-Softened to enrich the flavor and

make it mild. Special porous paper lets you draw
fresh air into the full king length of top-tobacco,
straight Grade-A all the way.

Join the swing to

AFIELD KING

© Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co,
 

FRIDAY
Edition

Che Ring-tum Phi

Washington and Lee Semi-Weekly Newspaper

FRIDAY
Edition

 

Volume LXI

6 Spring D

 

Business School

Courses Change
For Next Year

Two revised courses, Economics | ®

206 and 261, and one new course,

Economics 202, will be offered to

commerce students next year.
Economics 206 will change

now there are two separate courses
in transportation and public utilities.
These two industries have such sim-

ilar problems and methods of regu- |}
lations that a condensation of the

two subjects has been approved by
the Commerce School.

Economics 261 will emphasize a
study of concentrations in American
Economy instead of the present
course in public utilities. It will be
an experimental, reading seminar
class dealing with the effects on the
total economy of concentration or
“bigness” of labor, business, and
government. (Dr. Phillips will or-
ganize the two courses this summer.)

Economics 202 will be the new ad-
vanced course in Quantitative Meth-
ods. It will offer an up-to-date study
of the understanding of the highly
technical and advanced Electronic
Data Processor. Dean Adams of the
Commerce School states that this
new course will be the needed and
important follow-up to the elemen-
tary statistics course, 201.

This change in curriculum is de-
signed to add a more streamlined
program to the Commerce School.
By combining several of the courses,
it was felt that a more unified pro-
gram may be presented. Also, other
revisions will bring other courses
more up-to-date.

its |}
emphasis from transportation to a]
study of the theory and practice | |
of regulated industries. As set up|] |

 

Members of the Spring Dance Set: George Van Sciver, President of the set Bill Outman, Roy Goodwin. Stand-
ing: Jerome Dattle and Bo DuBose. Not pictured: Grantham Couch and Elliott Maynard.

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA, MARCH 10, 1961

ance Vice-

  

eas] i
Ed a k

—Photo by Bowen

 

Dr. Arnold Toynbee Speaks
At 8 O'clock In Gymnasium

Eminent British Historian Dr.
Arnold J. Toynbee will talk tonight
at 8 o’clock on “Does History Make
Sense?” in Doremus Gymnasium.

From 250 to 300 students and fac-
ulty members from other colleges
and schools in the area are expected
to be among the audience, Univer-

 

W&L Concert Guild Presenting
Pianist George Feyer On Monday

Monday night in Lee Chapel, the
W&L Concert Guild brings George
Feyer to the Washington and Lee
campus. Feyer is probably already
well known among the student body.

Since November 11, 1955, when
Cafe Carlyle was opened to the
public, George Feyer has played the
piano and entertained the guests that
return time and again to hear him.

At the piano Mr. Feyer has the
rare capacity to project a very in-
dividual musical personality without
seeming to project at all. He has the
air of a man whom nothing—and no
one—can ever quite surprise.

Feyer’s appeal is to both the young
and their elders. This appeal to
nearly all tastes is based on the fact
that he is both uncomplicated and
absorbing.

Although trained as a classical
pianist at the Conservatory in Buda-
pest, he gradually shifted to play-
ing popular music. “I liked popular
music very much,” he explains, “and
I especially enjoyed getting into di-

 

rect contact with people. I want to
feel that contact right here and now
rather than sit on a concert stage
and read the reviews in the morn-
ing.”

Feyer moved to Paris, and for sev-
eral years played in the best night
clubs in that city as well as in
Belgium, Holland, Spain and other
European countries. He came to
America in 1951.

Since he has been in America he
has produced many albums; those
best known are his highly successful
“Echoes” series which consist of
Echoes of Vienna, Echoes of Italy,
Echoes of Broadway, Echoes of Hol-
lywood, Echoes of Latin America,
More Echoes of Paris, Echoes of
Spain, Echoes of Childhood, Echoes
of Christmas. His latest recording
features such songs as Gigi, Sep-
tember Song, Third Man Theme, and
Theme from “The Apartment.”

The program begins at eight
o’clock—everyone is urged to be
on time.

 

George Feyer

 

sity officials said.

Dr. Toynbee arrived this morning
in Buena Vista and is a guest of
Dr. and Mrs. E. D. Myers of 301
Jackson Ave. Dr. Myers is a personal
friend of the British Historian and
has collaborated with him on several
occasions.

Dr. Toynbee’s appearance is being
sponsored by the University Com-
mittee on Lectures, headed by Dr.
A. W. Moger professor of Ameri-
can History.

At 5:30 this afternoon, Don Mur-
ray of W.D.B.J.-TV in Roanoke will
interview Dr. Toynbee in the Dining
Hall. Dr. Toynbee will be on cam-
pus tomorrow.

The Philosopher-Historian was a
visiting scholar in residence at
Washington and Lee in 1958. At that
time he presented a series of 15
lectures on “A Changing World in
the Light of History.”

He is the author of the monumen-
tal 11-volume work A Study of His-

Phi Gams, ZBT
And KA’s Elect
New Officers

Three fraternities have announced
the election of new officers for the
coming year. The Phi Gams and
ZBT’s have selected new governing
bodies at recent fraternity meetings.

Steve Rutledge, a junior from
Seattle, Washington, was selected as
the new president of Phi Gamma
Delta. Rick Kurz, a junior from
Philadelphia, Pa., was chosen treas-
urer. Corresponding secretary will be
Dennis Brack, a junior from Dallas,
Texas.

Two sophomores, Meade Christian

 

and Hunter Manson, complete the |
list of new Phi Gam officers. Chris- |

tian was elected recording secretary
and Manson was chosen as Historian.

Sam Helliman, a junior from
Chandler, Oklahoma., was selected
as the new president of Zeta Beta
Tau for the coming year. Steve
Galef, a junior from White Plains,
N.Y., will serve as the new vice-
president. Sophomores Randy Cole
ond Tony Schlessinger will serve as
the secretary and treasurer respec-
tively. Howie Bing, a junior from
Scarsdale, N. Y., was chosen pledge
trainer.

Three new officers have been
selected by the Kappa Alpha frater-
nity.

Roy Goodwin, a junior from Au-
gusta, Ga., who was elected presi-
dent last week, succeeds Nathan
Simpson. Elected as vice-president
and rush chairman was John P.
White, a junior from Scranton, Pa.

Robin Norfleet, a junior from Or-
ange, Va., was elected secretary.
The fraternity will elect officers
again in March 1962.

tory. While here in 1958 he worked
on revisions, and a 12th volume en-
titled “Reconsiderations” will appear
this April.

This morning and Saturday morn-
ing Dr. Toynbee will meet informal-
ly with advanced students in philos-
ophy and history.

Toynbee Defends Position

Some of Dr. Toynbee’s ideas have
sparked controversy and stimulated
thinking. He has been accused of
being anti-semitic for comparing the
Israeli treatment of Arabs in 1948
to the Nazi persecutions of World
War II. Dr. Toynbee answered the
criticism by saying, “It is impossible
to be wicked more than 100 per cent.
For example, I don’t have to kill
more than one man to be a murder
er.”

The space race, he says is a form
of “escapism.” He contends it is
“premature to think of outer space
before we’ve learned to keep the
peace with each other on this
planet.”

Professor at London

Prior to his retirement in 1955 Dr.
Toynbee was research professor of
international studies at the Univer-
sity of London. His long career in-
cluded service with Wellington
House during the First World War
and professorships of history and
language at the University of Lon-
don.

 

W&L ROTC Department
Begins Nite Compass Work
To Prepare For Ft. Bragg

During the past week the ROTC
Department at W&L has been con-
ducting night exercises in compass
field problems. The program has
been broadened to include a tie in
| with night patrols.

| The program is designed to pro-
vide experience in organizing end
operation of the problem for the
seniors. The junior squad leaders
are gaining valuable experience in
preparation for summer camp. This
is an example of the work which
they will be doing at Ft. Bragg, N.C.

The squads are given a course to
follow that involves two changes in
compass direction. Each of the three

Members of the patrols have to
maintain direction in darkness using
night vision. Emphasis is also placed
upon the control of men in dark-
ness.

Commenting on the problem thus
far, Maj. E. J. Roxbury, head of the
W&L ROTC Department, added that
the burden of the problem called
upon the squad leaders to display
their leadership training. Captain

 

“Doing an over-all pretty fine job.”

courses begins at Liberty Hall, and |
ends up in various parts of the woods |
that surround the intramural field. |

dance set.

Number 41

residents Named

Bill Outman, PiKA, junior and president of Spring Dances,
today named six juniors as vice-presidents for next month’s

Chosen to aid Outman with the dances are Grantham
Couch, Elliott Maynard, Roy Goodwin, George Van Sciver,

_ Jerome Dattel, and Bo DuBose.

In charge of the Figure will be Grantham Couch, Beta

Spring Rites
Held At VMI
Monday Night

By ANDY NEA
News Editor

Last Monday evening, the quiet of
Lexington was briefly disturbed by
a minor insurrection at VMI. Ac-
cording to several Keydets that were
interviewed, the causes for the up-
rising were numerous. However,
they may all be generally attributed
to the ‘get’ tough’ policy instituted
this year by the new commandant.

Such new innovations as cutting
down on the number of weekends
in the outside world and a revision
in the ranking system have resulted
in dissension in the Corps. However,
the final blow came when the com-
mandant cut the Keydet’s Spring
liberty by nine hours. The Keydets
were ordered to be in their barracks
on Sunday at 9 p.m. instead of the
scheduled return of Monday at 7
a.m.

Around 7 p.m. Monday, things
started to happen when the dis-
gruntled Keydets began to commit
such unauthorized acts as slammin
doors and throwing paper into th
courtyard of the barracks.

The commandant, who had been
attending a cocktail party, was im-
mediately summoned to quell the
disturbance. The entire corps was
ordered to report to the parade
ground in fatigues. As a punishment,
they were double-timed around the
area twice and returned to their bar-
racks.

At 9 p.m. someone turned in a
false alarm that brought the faith-
ful Lexington Fire Department and
W&L students running. In an hour
everything had been returned to
normal. However, ten Keydets were
arrested on various charges that
stemmed from the disorder.

Damage was restricted to numer-~
erous broken windows and light-

(Continued on page 4)

—*junior from Shreveport, La. Couch

is secretary of his fraternity, histor-
ian of the junior class, a member of
the varsity football team, the golf
team, vice-president of Openings
dances, and a member of the Com-
merce Fraternity.

Elliott Maynard, PiKA junior from
Portland, Me., will be in charge of
decorations. He is a member of the
varsity swimming team, and has been
named W&L’s outstanding swimmer
for the past two years.

In charge of publicity will be Roy
Goodwin, a KA junior from Augusta,
Ga. Goodwin is assistant-managing
editor of the Friday Ring-tum Phi,
president of the KA house, a mem-
ber of the IFC, a member of the
Cotillion Club, a member of Mon-
golian Minks, was social chairman of
his fraternity, and was a member of
Home Edition.

George Van Sciver will be in
charge of invitations. He is a Phi
Psi junior from Bethlehem, Pa., and
is historian of his fraternity. He is
a member of “13” Club, a member
of the Southern Collegian staff, a
member of the Cotillion Club, a
member of the Student Service So-
ciety, and was a member of the
varsity baseball team last year.

Jerome Dattel, a ZBT junior from
Ruleville, Miss., will head the pro-
duction staff. He is a member of
SWMSFC, the Student Service So-
ciety, advertising manager of the
Ring-tum Phi, the Cold Check Com-
mittee, Pi Alpha Nu, and was cir-
culation manager of the Ring-tum
Phi last year.

In charge of the cocktail party
given for Outman is Bo DuBose,
PiKA junior from Atlanta, Ga.
DuBose is social chairman and rush
chairman of his fraternity, a member
of the Commerce Fraternity, a mem-
ber of the Dean’s List, and holds a
varsity letter on the rifle team.

Outman was elected president of
Spring Dances in last year’s campus
elections. He is a member of Omicron
Delta Kappa, was a member of the
Executive Committee last year,
sports editor of the Friday Ring-tum
Phi, a member of the varsity soc-
cer team, a dorm counselor, and a

 

|! member of the Commerce Fraternity.

 

Interviews For Calyx Posts

Interviews will be held on Monday;
March 13, to determine the editor and
business manager of the 1962 Calyx,

The interviews will be conducted
by the Publications Board in the
Student Union at 2 p.m.

All juniors and seniors are eligible.
No experience is required.

To be eligible for the positions, a
student must either have an over-all
grade point ratio of 1.0 or a 1.0 for
the last semester.

The Publications Board stated that
no editor or business manager shall
be succeeded by any man who is a

 

To Be Monday At 2 P.M.

member of the same social fraternity
to which the incumbent belongs.
Editor of the 1961 Calyx is Ned
Ames, a Delta Tau Delta senior. The
present business manager is Dick
Sharlin, a Zeta Beta Tau senior.

 

NOTICE

Due to an accident in the pho-
tographer’s developing room, the
Calyx picture of Phi Beta Kappa
will be taken Monday at 1 p.m.
in front of Washington College.
Members should be present.

L, J. Desha, Secretary

 

 

— o

ee
Leo
fs ‘

Hugh J. Hall, the junior ROTC in-| Squad leader Al Curran and Bob Wheelock during the night compass field
structor, felt that the cadets were| problem held at the ROTC department this past week. The entire corps

  
    

participated in preparation for summer camp.
Page 2

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

Che Ring-tum Phi

Friday Edition
Member of Virginia Intercollegiate Press Association

 

The Speaking Tradition

A student recently referred to the “old standbys” of edi-
torial treatment as being campus politics, hell week, and the
speaking tradition. Initially, may we state that if there is any
seemingly undue preponderance in editorial comment in these
areas, it is only proportional to the also obvious abuses con-

nected with them.

We understand the student body’s hesitancy to choke up
in nostalgia at the mentioning of Lee’s name, but we do not
condone the widespread flaunting of traditions with which that
name is associated and upon which the prestige of this univer-

sity is so much dependent.

Seldom before in the history of Washington and Lee
has the speaking tradition reached the low ebb that it presently
enjoys among this student body. Such a year as this can also
be the death knell for this tradition if its revival is not forth-
coming. The failure to assimilate one class into the traditions of
Washington and Lee, or the wholesale neglect of one or other
conventions by the student body in session necessarily saps the
vitality of these traditions and eventually destroys them. This
creeping stagnation of the speaking tradition poses an inevit-
able threat to all of the other traditions here—including the

honor system.

It is incumbent upon all of the students and members of
the faculty and administration to preserve this invaluable herit-
age of Washington and Lee. A greeting is not a difficult thing
to render. The energy expended is negligible, and the response
received might momentarily pull one out of the vat of self-
concern. If a student considers himself above such a bourgeois
practice as casual speaking, then he is perhaps above Washing-
ton and Lee and should find some other place to dictate taste.

 

Sen. Goldwater Says Conservatists’
Job In Congress Is Obstructionist;
Race Solution Called ‘Inadequate’

By VICTOR LASSETER
Friday Columnist

Shortly after he spoke at Wash-
ington and Lee on March 1, Sen.
Barry Goldwater
was given an ex-
uberant welcome
by the Young
Americans for
Freedom, a group
of young conser-
vatives meeting in
New York City.
At this time Sen.
Goldwater pointed
out that the job
of the conserva-
tive in Congress
was “not to be just obstructionist,”
but to match each liberal program
with a detailed conservative altern-
ative.

This is a noble aspiration, and if
Sen. Goldwater can counter liberal
Democratic programs with studied
alternatives of his own he will be
doing a service to the development
of political theory in this country.
Some of Goldwater’s own plans were
revealed at his speech here at Wash-
ington and Lee. Goldwater present-
ed for example his own unique al-
ternatives to Democratic plans for
the solution of such problems as
federal-aid-to-education, segrega-
tion, and Communism. Some of
Goldwater’s counter-proposals, how-
ever, appeal more to emotion than to
reason.

Goldwater’s solution for the race
problem in America is woefully in-
adequate; in fact, it is not a solution
but a postponement of a solution.
In his speech here Goldwater implied
that federal power should be used
to end discrimination against Negro
voters, but he would not use federal
power to end racial segregation in
public schools. He doesn’t believe
in segregation, but neither will he
do anything to end it, a palatable
enough doctrine for Southern voters.

The solution offered by Goldwater
for the racial problem is his old
adage, Leave it to the Local Authori-
ties. The local authorities, in this
case, are unfortunately not the most
enlightened men in America: Ross
Barnett, Orval Faubus, and the hill-
billy singer from Mississippi, men
who have seldom shown neither the
willingness or the capability to work
out a solution to end racial discrimi-
nation.

 

Lasseter

Goldwater’s alternative to the
almost irrevocable committment of

 

w *

liberal Republicans and Democrats
to the U.N., NATO, and to search-
ing diplomatic negotiation is to
break off all relations with Soviet
Russia. This, Goldwater assures
us, would make all the neutralist
nations fall in line with the U.S.
And if Red China were admitted
to the U.N. Goldwater believes that
the U.S. Senate would take the |
U.S. out the back door as the
Reds walked in the front.

The neutralist nations, however,
would hardly fall in behind the U.S.
if we broke off relations with Rus-
sia. As many observers see it, a fun-
damental tenent of modern neutral-
ism is a definite lack of desire to
commit one’s country to either side
in the cold war, and to encourage |
peaceful negotiations between the,
two major powers. Perhaps this is|
the first time in history when we)
know who our enemy is, but hiding
behind an isolationist curtain isn’t
going to solve the problem.

 

 

Letter To The Editor

The Editor

The Ring-tum Phi
Friday Edition
Lexington, Virginia
Dear Sir:

I read with dismay last Friday
that the Assimilation Committee may
find it necessary to impose some sort
of punishment on those who fail to
comply with the “tradition” of!
speaking on campus. First there was
all that rubbish about the Dance
Plans; now we have to walk around
the campus looking out for some
hapless soul to grunt at.

What sort of a tradition is it that
must be imposed by force or threats
upon those who supposedly believe
in it? Traditions grow out of the mu-
tual ideals and needs of people, and
any attempt to superimpose such
feelings results in outward accept-
ance at the most, an attitude which
does not seem to indicate a healthy
regard for the basic principle of
tradition.

Further, if this “tradition” is so
sacred to the University, why should
it be discarded when one reaches
the boundary line? Can we pass by
our friends glassy-eyed four feet the
other side of McCrum’s or must we
hold out until we reach the Lyric?

(Continued on page 4)

 

 

By BOND JOHNSON
Friday Reviewer

Pirandello handles reality among
his characters almost as a magician
who hides a coin under one of
several cups and then moves them
around. The coin is practically never
under the cup you would guess, and
like as not it will vanish altogether
during the show. In “Henry IV,” at
first it seems positive that the man
masquerading as Emperor is insane.
His world appears a world of un-
reality in which he knows nothing
of our twentieth century. It seems
equally positive that the people from
his former and sane existence are
from a real world. But as Henry IV
proves to have his wits about him
and to have chosen to continue liv-
ing the history he once lived in mad-
ness, his world seems a world of
concrete reality.

Allen Creates a Masterful Henry IV

The cast of “Henry IV” carries off
Pirandello’s magic with a swiftness
and a sleight of hand that hardly
leaves you time to think. Bob Allen,
the center of this confounding group
of players, creates a Henry IV who
is at one moment the essence of con-
trolled majesty, and at the next
dominated by a fury approaching in-
sanity.

In the first act, his Henry IV is an
actor, superbly artful, playing the
role of a madman to the courtiers
and the visitors. In the second act,
he gives a Henry IV who is vacil-
lating between acting the madman
and revealing himself as sane to
the men who play his courtiers. And
in the third, he plays a Henry IV
who emerges as a tragic hero, Gre-
cian in stature. His enigmatic crea-
ation of the character is subtle,
beautifully detailed, a consummate
piece of work.

Allen Supported by Strong Cast
He is backed by a cast of skillful

 

 

%

  

Members of the Troubadour play
The play will run through tonight.

major characters. Betty Saunders as
the Marchioness Matilda whom Hen-
ry had loved in his former existence,
and Tim Morton as Baron Belcredi,
her present companion, both pro-
vide excellent material for Bob Al-
len to work with. One of the most
amazing things about the perform-
ance of both is the Italian quality
they suggest so well in their person-
alities.

Betty Saunders makes a lovely
nothern Italian Marchioness. Her
Matilda has the inevitable appeal of
a woman who, though weak, can de-
stroy. Her coquetry is well done.
She can, for instance, suggest the

 
 

“Henry IV” shown here in action.
—Staff photo by Bill Young

 

iving In

   

whole decadent richness of her mein
by the way she uses a cigarette
holder in the second act.

Tim Morton, again a very Italian
character, emerges as a supremely
obnoxious fop. With a self sureness,
with a posed quality, with graceful
but calculated use of his arms and
hands, he develops an arrogant and
hateful Belcredi. One of the best as-
pects of his portrayal is the crass-
ness with which he constantly goads
Henry IV. By the time he has been
stabbed, you feel that he should have
been run through some while ago.

Stabbing Scene Magnificent
One of the tightest and best done

Henry IV, A Great Creation By Allen,

Finds Reality By L History

.| moments in the play is the stabbing

of Belcredi. The tenseness of the re-
actions between Belcredi and Henry
IV during the third act are culmi-
nated in a moment of wild action.
Henry IV grabs the sword and, as
everyone moves in, lunges it into
Belcredi. The blocking is excellent
as through the rapidly moving bodies
the writhing body of Belcredi comes
into sight. One of the courtiers, Bob
Aylin, whose reactions throughout
are well sustained, expresses splend-
idly the horror and surprise and
realization that this act has sus-
pended Henry IV and his retinue
forever in their acting of history.

Applebaum as Psychiatrist

Jim Applebaum gives a devastat-
ing portrait of the psychiatrist. Ter-
ribly rational and superior, he none
the less asks before he meets Henry
IV, “I suppose he’s not armed, is
he?” Mervyn Clay handles with his
usual comic skill the role of the new
courtier, Berthold, who has studied
the history of Henry IV of France
rather than that of Henry IV of
Germany. And, while I am on the

_| subject, another bit of comic relief

was the whimsical bat who appeared
from the loft on opening night as
twilight came to the castle of Goslar.

Bob Fussell and Susan Howard as
the young couple were attractive.
The courtiers were effective and well
directed. The sets, which include two
huge tapestries and two full length
portraits by Dr. Junkin, are mag-
nificent. However, the color scheme
is better in the second and third acts
than in the first.

The costumes, save a rather ratty
cape that Matilda wears, are all very
grand. The direction is firm and
lucid, except for an impossible scene
to play in which the doctor is sud-
denly called away from Matilda and
Belcredi by the Marquis and Frida,
and immediately engages in a secret
conversation with them.

 

RES IPSA LOQUITUR

 

Even Noise Has Invaded The Library,
Will DAR Install McCormick’s Reaper?

By THORNS CRAVEN

Friday Columnist

In times like these everyone is
quick to agree that
there are few sac-
red places left on
earth, and fewer
than that on this
campus. But since
last Monday night
there is even one
one less than usu-
al on our hallowed
grounds. Now I
realize that most
of the news that
takes place on this
campus is quickly and accurately re-
ported, but I fear that in the case
of events which occurred on Monday
and subsequent nights nothing will
be said. Thus it is up to me to bring
a grave problem to light.

Craven

The more enlightened of my read-
ers have already guessed the situa-
tion that I am referring to. If you
are not among this circle of campus
elite, then I suggest you ask the man
on your right to give his version so
you can judge for yourself my treat-
ment of an issue which concerns us
all.

If, heaven forbid, you’re reading
alone, then forget this and go out
and make a friend. Maybe he can
tell you, and even if he can’t you'll
be able to sing the alma mater
without getting a lump in your
throat. But enough digression; it
is imperative that I begin my
shocking report.

On that fateful night of March 6
(Monday last to those of you who
don’t have a calendar handy), I en-
tered the hallowed halls of McCor-
mick Library to see what new mag-
azines had come in. Settling down
with The Scientific Journal I was
almost immediately awakened by
screams from the old co-op.

Now I’m all for SWMSFC, and for
SWMSFC musicals, and all that, but
some people actually study in the

 

library, and the old co-op is just too
close to have girls running around
in. But after a while, when more
people came in, the noise inside
cancelled out the noise outside and
everything was okay. So I picked
up The Film Quarterly and went
back to sleep. Then came the riot.
That was too much. Sirens, fire
engines, cadets screaming, girls
screaming, everybody running
around tables, uproarious laughter
coming out of the stacks. There’s
just so much a student can take.
And all the while not one Friend
of the Library went to his battle
station. The general disorder that
was prevalent was enough to make
me start studying for my quiz on
Tuesday. And no sooner had I start-
ed that than everything quieted
down. Such fickleness in the moods
of the students who use the library
should not be allowed.

So I humbly submit a few pro-
posals to keep this sort of thing from
recurring. Number one is the setting
up of a committee, and since we
already have the Friends of the Li-
brary and SWMSFC, I suggest that
the new committee be a marriage of
the two, and be called SWMFSCC
(Singer Will Move Singing From
Co-Op Committee.

Naturally they will move into
the lobby of the library. That way
the students won’t have to com-
pete with outside noise, and for
study breaks you can go out and
join the chorus. Just so the F and
L won't feel slighted about not-
having their initials in the com-
mittee name we can have the
SWMSFSCC-FOTLSC (the last six
letters naturally meaning Fire En-
gines Off The Lawn Sub-Commit-
tee). This sub-committee will na-
turally solve the problem of where
to put the fire engines. I can only
suggest that they consider that
glass enclosed bulletin board.

Now this committee solves only a
seasonal problem, and I think we
should think in terms of long-range

 

 

DEAR aWlc'KER SNACK

© EREAL COMPANY,

 

  

I APPRECIATE YOUR OFFER
OF ONE HUNDRED

REVOLUTIONARY (WAR SOLD-
(ERS FOR FIFTEEN CENTS,

 

 

 

 

 

 

HOWEVER, BEING AGAINST | | STEAD COULD t PLEASE
VIOLENCE,T Am NOT HAVE A SET OF
SURE I WANT THEM, 44 | PEACE-TIME CIVILIANS £

 

 

 

 

planning. Since the musical will soon
be performed and over, it will be
necessary to provide some form of
noise to make up for the loss we
will suffer when live music leaves
us. To the friends of the library
(non-officially, of course), I suggest
that you look into the possibilities
of getting several juke boxes for
the various rooms, and _ transistor
radios for the stacks. And for people
who might suffer from laryngitis

(Continued on page 4)

George A. Lear
Is The Oldest
W2&L Student

People who handle student records
at Washington and Lee often do a
double take when they run across
the registration card of George An-
drew Lear.

It says, among other things, “Birth-
date... 1912.”

Lear, who is sometimes mistaken
for a professor by his fellow stu-
dents, is enrolled as a special stu-
dent in Washington and Lee’s School
of Commerce and Administration,
where he is learning why he be-
came the successful businessman he
did.

“I’ve been in business constantly
since 1935,” he explains, “but I’ve
never had any formal economic
training. I feel I know the workings
but not the phrases.”

Learning the “phrases” is just one
reason Lear has returned to college
at the age of 49, 26 years after he
received his B.A. degree in political
science from Brown University.
Actually, he is brushing up his study
habits in preparation for enrollment
in Washington and Lee’s law school
next year.

“When I was in college,” he ex-
plained, “I wanted to be a lawyer,
but it just didn’t work out.” Follow-
ing graduation from Brown, Lear
settled down to raising a family and
a business career. Both enterprises
turned out well, indeed.

Mrs. Lear was the former Helen
A. Dewey of Lexington. There are
three children: George Jr., who is
now at the Sage School of Philoso-
phy at Cornell University; Suzanne,
who is studying at the Tyler School
of Fine Arts in Philadelphia; and
Richard, a sophomore at Lexington

 

 

High School.
(Continued on page 4)

LETTERS

40: THE

pitokR

\3

Mr. Nathan Simpson, Editor
The Ring-tum Phi

Washington and Lee University
Lexington, Virginia

 

Dear Sir,

In the past two weeks, it has come
to my attention that one of your
students has been affected in quite a
detrimental manner by the loss of a
day of study. This day, February 22,
I have been informed, is declared a
holiday in the region of Virginia.
Jack C. Martin, native son of the
glorious Commonwealth of Ken-
tucky, having majored in Kentucky
History in his prep school days, still
holds to the idea as do most Ken-
tuckians, that the region of Virginia,
having seceded from the United
States of America in the year 1861,
was fortunately accepted by the be-
nevolent people of Kentucky, as the
one hundred and twenty-first coun-
ty in the Commonwealth. Although
this arrangement has been quite a
strain on the economy of the Com-
monwealth, the people have shown
the foresight to support that high-
est institute of learning in the Com-
monwealth, Davis & Lee University.

Having left the region of Kentucky
proper in the fall of 1960 to enroll
in Davis & Lee University, Mr. Mar-
tin was so shocked to find that the
name of that greatest Kentuckian
had been deleted by the people of
Virginia County from the title of
the heretofore great university, and
replaced by an obscure Virginian,
g. w. washington, that he fell into
a melancholy that caused his grades
to fall far below the heights expect-
ed of him. When I first analyzed him
shortly after February 22, I found
him in the depths of an anti-wash-
ington complex. Please do everything
in your power to relieve this condi-
tion of his.

Yours sincerely,

Robert M. Polsgrove, M.D.
(Martin doctor)

Che Ring-tum Phi

Friday Edition

The Ring-tum Phi is published Tues-
day and Friday during the college year.
It is printed by the Journalism Labor-
Cory Press, ashington and Lee Uni-
versity. The mailing address is Box
899, Lexington, Va.

Entered as second class matter Sep-
tember 20, 1946 at the Post Office, Lex-
ington, Va., under the act of March
8, 1878.

National Advertising Representative:
The National Advertisers Service, Inc.,
420 Madison Ave., New York, N.Y.

 

Editor-in-Chief................ Nathan Simpson
Business Managerv.............. Huntley Biggs
Editorial Board
Managing FEditor................ George Honts

Assistant Managing Editor................
sibbiensssscsissasssaseiein Roy Goodwin

 

 

 

 
 

 

—

 

 

THE RING-TUM PHI

Page 3

 

Delts Second; PiKA Moves Into Third

Phi Delts Retain Slim I-M Lead
After Latest Contest Tabulations

The Intramural season at Wash-
ington and Lee has now seen the
completion of eight of the competi-
tive events, and at the end of the
tabulation made just yesterday, the
Phi Delts continue their domin-
ance over the first place birth.

In close contention, a mere seven
points behind, are the Delts who
have maintained their standing
among the first division since the
last count was run.

The most notable change in the
comparative standings has result-
ed in the jump made by the
PiKA’s. At last count, they were
ninth, and a good fifty points be-
hind the first division leader, while
in the latest figurings they stand

 

only a scant twenty points from
the top-ranked entry.

In general, the race this year is
not much different from any of past
seasons. It is shaping up in the usual
tight-knight manner as a mere 30
points separate the top six frater-
nities in competition.

Among the PiKA’s, Phi Psis, and
SAE’s, there is but a six point spread,
which means that any slack on the
part of one will boost the others
farther into the lead.

In retrospect, it is quite interest-
ing to observe the rise and fall
of team performances as the houses
have entered into the different sea-
sons.

In the most recent contest, the

 

Robrecht Meets Sgt. Travis Tiller
In Return PAL Middleweight Bout
Tuesday At Quantico Marine Base

Ray Robrecht, Phi Gam Intermediate Law Student and the
General’s one-man boxing team, will be looking for his tenth
consecutive victory when he fights at the Marine Base at Quan-
tico, Va., next Tuesday, March 14.

Boxing for the Roanoke Police Athletic League team, which
has been undefeated in twenty-four matches during the last

——————

 

RAY ROBRECHT
Trains For Return Bout

 

five years, Robrecht will be seeking
his seventh victory in league com-
petition.

This bout will be a return en-
gagement in the 165-lb. weight-
class division against Travis Tiller
over whom he scored a unanimous
decision in their first encounter
last February 23 at the Roanoke
National Guard Armory.

After next Tuesday’s scrap, Ro-
brecht’s next fight will be early in
April when he and the Roanoke
P.A.L. compete at Norfolk in the
Virginia State Boxing Tournament.

This final bout in April will be
Ray’s last fistic outing of the year.
As for his future in boxing, he
is “undecided” at this point.

His tentative plans, however, do
call for continued training and box-
ing during the summer, as he has
done during past vacations, in his
hometown of Plainfield, N. J.

His diligent training schedule
for this coming bout has included
close to three miles of road work
each morning in addition to two
hours of workout in the gymna-
sium each afternoon. Dick Rose
and Bart Chamberlain continue to
serve as his sparring partners.

Looking at his last fight with Til-
ler, Robrecht commented, “I hope to
move more this time. In the last
bout, I waited for him, and was a
little wary of his longer reach and
good right hand, but this time I
plan to lead and jab more.”

 

Betas pulled off a stunning victory
over the Sigma Nus for the I-M
basketball crown. This victory rep-
resented the first championship for
the Betas this year, and they cur-
rently stand ninth among the fra-
ternities with 551 points.

Although the Delts started off the
season by capturing two trophies
in the fall competition series, they
have failed to add another to their
fold since last their freshmen ran
away with the annual Turkey Trot.

Their initial victory came in the
I-M track championship as_ they
edged out the Phi Psis and the KA’s
for the title.

For the third-ranked PiKA’s, the
fall season proved to be of great
benefit, as they picked up the tennis
and football crowns back-to-back.

The tennis championsip came to
be theirs as they squeaked past the
Betas 3-2 in the finals, while in foot-
ball, it was clearly a run-away
affair as they remained undefeated
by rolling up 138 points while allow-
ing their opposition a mere 18.

The Phi Phis, with their heavily
dominated freshman team raced to
victory in the I-M swimming cham-
pionships held in Doremus Gym.
Victories by several of their fresh-
men, who had not yet been enlisted
by Coach Eastman, proved to be
the margin of victory.

The top-ranked Phi Delts picked
up their only championship of the
season thus far, when they defeat-
ed the Phi Gams and Kappa Sigs
for the golf championship.

While this has been the only title
they have won so far, their com-
bined total is still a very respectful
first among the twenty teams in
competition for the Grand Intra-
mural Championship which will be
decided in the latter part of April
or early May.

The eighth and final sport which
has seen completion thus far in
the season was recently won by the
PiKA’s. The game was _ handball,
and the victory was narrowly pulled
away from the SAE’s and Phi Psis
in a double elimination playoff. The
initial round proved to be a stale-
mate, yet in the second go-round,
the title went to third-ranked PiKA.

With all of this just so much histo-
ry the intramural season is getting
into somewhat of a flurry, and the
month of March will see the near
completion of all athletic activity.

At the moment, the volleyball and
bowling crowns are up for grabs,
while next week the wrestling tour-
nament will get into full swing at the
gymnasium.

As of last night, the league win-
ners had all been decided in the
race for the volleyball crown. The
four successful houses in their
respective leagues include the Phi
Gams, Betas, Phi Psis, and the Pi
Phis. The league elimination tour-

 

 

Expert Motor Work

FOREIGN CARS AND STUDEBAKER LARKS
OUR SPECIALTY

MAIN STREET MOBIL STATION

ee D)

Open 8:00 a.m.—8:00 p.m.

 

Traditional
W&L BLAZER
With University Crest
and Buttons

The

COLLEGE TOWN

Shop

Student Charge Accounts
Welcomed

 

 

 

 

SPENCER

General Tire
536 E. Nelson Street

Best in Tires
GENERAL

Best in Recapping
Kraft Tread

New and Used Tires
FOR COMPACT CARS

 

 

_

THE COLLEGE INN

The Best Food in Town

American and Italian

Catering to the Students, Faculty,
and Towns People

OPEN SUNDAYS

 

 

J)

 

 

COSOOOHOSSSOSSSESSSOSSSOSSOOCHEHOOOOEEOOOHOSEEESE
FOR ROOM RESERVATIONS—CALL HO 3-2151

LEXINGTON MOTEL
Large Rooms—U. S. 11 By-Pass South
Free TV—Phones—Continental Breakfast

Only Motel in corporate limits of Lexington
SCOCOOOOSOESSESSSESSSESESSEHESSHEOHSOSHOOOHOHOOEOEESOE

 

 

Ss =
e *
: DIXON’S :
: ESSO SERVICE CENTER :
. ROUTE 60 EAST IN LEXINGTON .
° Across from the White Top Resturant :
: HO 3-4214 :
: Wash, Grease, Lube, Road Service :
: Charge Accounts Welcome :
coceccceoceecececenccoecceo‘eoeoooccoooeooooceoes

 

nament will be held on March 20,
22, and 23.

As for bowling, there is little to
report at this time, as nothing has
been definitely decided in league
competition. Intramural director Joe
Spivey reports that immediately
upon completion of league activity,
a championship playoff will be set
up for later this month.

 

INTRAMURAL STANDINGS
- Pm Delt ..

CONIMAP WHE

..
ee yee
saris

44 4 *
SEN awe

      
  

+ :
‘ bi,
eg

De Pe PG initinsinciionn
17. Lambda Chi

 

Next Tuesday will mark the open-
ing of one of the highlights in the
I-M program. Beginning at 7 p.m.
on the night of March 14, the student
body will once again throng to Do-
remus Gym with the idea of watch-
ing their fraternity brothers or
friends last for six hectic minutes
on the mat.

Last year the Delts romped to
the title by taking five of the indi-
vidual championships. This year,
however, the title will be wide
open once more, and it’s anybody’s
guess as to which House is in
fighting shape.

Elliott Maynard, Washington and
Lee’s number one swimmer, travels
to the Eastern Intercollegiate Lea-
gue’s_ Invitational Championships
March 9-11 at Princeton University
for a second shot at the 100-yard
and 200-yard breaststroke titles.

Maynard, who is among the coun-
try’s top breaststroke men, finished
fourth and third in the 100-yard and
the 200-yard breaststroke cmpetition,
respectively, last year at Harvard.

The winners in both events—
Navy’s Dick Taft in the 100 and the
Middies’ Charley Griffiin in the 200—
return this year, but Maynard has
a good chance of beating either or
both of the Navy Men, Washington
and Lee Coach Norris Eastman be-
lieves.

Maynard, who has improved con-
sistently in his three years at W&L,
broke the W&L pool record in the

I-M Director Joe Spivey has ask-
ed that all I-M managers please take
note of the following:

1) The scratch meeting for wrest-
ling will be held at 7 p.m. on Mon-
day, March 13.

2) All candidates will “weigh-in”
between the hours of 9 a.m. and 1:15

 

+

 

 

p.m. on Tuesday, in the training Peebb erode eee
room.

3) Qualifying matches will be held : ROBERT E. LEE :
on March 14 and 15 beginning at|# BARBERSHOP F
7 p.m. % :

4) The final matches will be held| ¥ wane 7” amare
on Thursday, March 16, beginning $ Proprietor
at 7 p.m. Mele dee ere eo oe sere stoner oforde tere ote rteoe stort

 

  
  
 
 
 
 
 
  
 
 
 
 
 
    
  
   

      

ELLIOTT MAYNARD
Swims at Princeton Today

Elliott Maynard Competes
In Eastern Invitation Meet

200-yard breaststroke this year with
a 2:14.1 time. In setting the record
he defeated Maryland’s Bill Schae-
ble, also one of the nation’s top 20
breaststrokers.

“Maynard is one of the smoothest
breaststrokers in the country. He’s
not a bull in the water,” says East-
man.

Elliott, only a junior, was unde-
feated in ten meets this season. But
Eastman said, “It’s hard to tell how
good he’ll be because he swims his
competition, Schaeble is the only real

(Continued on page 4)

 

 

TETLOW
TV Service

221 S. Main HO 3-2841

 

 

 

 

 

 

    

do girls rush to your head?

Very likely—if you’ve taken it into your head to use ‘Vaseline’
Hair Tonic! Downright heady stuff, this — made specially
for men who use water with their hair tonic. ‘Vaseline’ Hair
Tonic is 100% pure light grooming oil — replaces oil that
water removes, ‘Vaseline’ Hair Tonic won’t evaporate, stays
clear and clean on your hair. And just a little does a lot!

it’s clear “
it’s clean...it’s

VASELINE

*VASELINE’ 1S A REGISTERED TRADEMAS

       
   

    
  
 

rESy }
Grocfms add Pondit ions
waif| the Natural Way

 
    
 

 

    

 

  

Ctboks Dry Scalp and
| [Laose Dandrat
it | |

HU |

*PONDS

 

    

|

|
i
||
|
1]
1 |

|

 

 
Page 4

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

Cole and Pusey At Conference

President Fred C. Cole and Dean
William W. Pusey were among the
1500 educators who attended the
NEA (National Education Associa-
tion) Conference in Chicago this
past week. The topic for discussion
at the conference was “Goals for

 

Placement

Monday, March 13

Mr. James A. Foltz, Washington
and Lee Alumnus will interview sen-
iors interested in marketing, finan-
cial, scientific and personnel divi-
sions of the General Foods Corpor-
ation.

Tuesday, March 14

Mr. Lyndon J. Gump will be on
campus to talk with seniors about
the opportunities in sales with Up-
john pharmaceuticals. Educational
requirements for these positions are
students who have majored in biol-
ogy or chemistry.

Wednesday, March 15

A representative of Equitable
Life will be here to talk to interested
seniors about their Training Program
for Management Personnel. This
program includes broad training for
advancement to management and
officer positions with this company.

Thursday, March 16

A representative of the Pennsylva-
nia Railroad Company will interview
seniors interested in the Industrial
Relations Training Program with his
company. After 18 months of train-
ing, men will be assigned to admin-
istrative positions in Labor Relations
work. Also, he will talk with men
who are interested in the Accounting
field.

Mr. Robert M. Stone, Jr., of Trav-
elers Insurance Company will be
here to interview seniors interested
in a position with his company.
He will discuss opportunities avail-
able in underwriting, claims, admin-
istration and actuarial work.

 

Higher Education.” These goals and
other functions of colleges were con-
sidered by
groups.

to the group probing college ath-
letics, Dr.
athletic competition had become an
integral part of the educational in-
stitution, it was and should not be
a primary essential of an educational
institution.
grams, he added, are not connected
with successful academic programs.
Yet in spite of the nation’s need for
keen young minds, many institutions
have yielded to pressure groups to
“compromise academic standards for
anticipated athletic successes.”

tions depend upon gate receipts to
finance their athletic activities.
serves no educational purpose to
play winning contests in order to
attract crowds large enough to fi-
nance (more) winning contests.”

Dr. Cole feels a school may fall into
a vicious circle and as a consequence
its academic standards will fall. The
President spoke out strongly against
alumni and student groups who at-

individual discussion

In his speech, which was delivered

Cole stated: “that although

Spring Violence At VMI

(Continued from page 1)

bulbs along with a section of drain-
pipe that was run over by a fire
engine. Also, the entire area was
littered with toilet paper and other
refuse. Rats were put to work clean-
ing up the mess.

The Keydets said that the com-

mandant attributed the entire. inci-
dent to the spring-like weather.

 

Successful athletic pro-

Dr. Cole cited that many institu-

ie

By trying to buy a winning team,

Letter To The Editor

(Continued from page 2)
Have Washington and Lee men

finally come to the point where an-
other look at their “traditions” are
necessary, or can we assume that, as
several professors and the majority
of students have already realized,
that sometimes one is better off say-

ing nothing?

If I may be permitted one final ob-

servation: I am told that the students
in the local schools are taught, pre-
sumably as part of their “education,”
to inform on colleagues who misbe-
have or otherwise disturb the calm
of the educational atmosphere, with
dire results for those who do not. I
wonder where they dug up that
idea?

Stephen Hawkins

 

 

Elliott Maynard Competes

In Eastern Invitational
(Continued from page 3)

good man he has swum, and look
what Maynard did then”

In addition to his W&L record,
Maynard ‘holds pool records at East
Carolina, ‘ Roanoke, William and
Mary, and West Virginia.

Maynard has been working out
hard every day since the end of the
season and Eastman figures that he
will be in top — for the Eastern
meet.

 

N oise annie The Library

(Continued from page 2)

(hence. they. can’t sing along with
the records), there should be a small
supply of noise makers in the music
room.

Of course all this will be unneces-
sary if more people will start com-
ing to the library to, meet their
friends, and if more politicians will
increase their efforts to influence
people. But if none of this works
we can always ask the DAR to doa
good historical deed and install a
working model of McCormick’s reap-
er. That should do it.

Lear, W&L’s Oldest Student

(Continued from page 2)

Lear took over his father’s lum-
ber business in 1935 and ran it until
World War II brought him duty as
a combat officer in the Marine Corps.
In 1946, he became president of
Moore and White, one of the world’s
largest manufacturers of pulp and
paper mill machinery, and held this
position for ten years. Lear now
has business interests in Philadelphia
and in Lexington, where he is back
in the timber business again.

Last fall, after getting the Lex-
ington business going smoothly, Lear
says, “I suddenly reached a deci-
sion to go to Law School.” So he
entered the commerce school “to
get my feet wet and get back in

_the groove of studying.”

After a month of classes now, Lear

 

 

TOLLEY’S PHARMACY
Prescriptions Filled
Immediately

PURCHASE DRUGS
HO 3-2211

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

STATE

LEXINGTON, VA
|_MOBSART 3-3424 _ |

 

LASTS TIMES SATURDAY
Matinee 2 p.m.
Evening 7-9:15 p.m.
The BIG One
5 an aie Award Nominations

    

se

JO DINA MERRIL aaa

Owected by FREO ZINNEMANN
TECHNICOLOR® meu » WARNER BROS,

 

STARTS SUN.

   

®CIE OF
RESTON

CiNEmaScoPE

 

 

 

 

 

PO TT eee

Waggy’s Jewelers
35 S. Main Street
Phone HO 3-4121

THE HOME OF QUALITY

ati tt tai

 

 

rr rere

HICKMAN’S ESSO

South Main Street
HO 3-2024

 

 

Baker
Ford Sales

BETTER DEALS

CLEARANCE
of lot for 1961 Models

co

he

hb

= NEW AND
- USED CARS
$

"

+

+

4

Highway 60 East

 

 

PEPE PEPE hhh heheheh

—

I

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

TELEPHONE CO

 

i

er
R. L. Hess and Bro.
JEWELERS

Lexington, Virginia
HO 3-2833

%
Bere ode rde ode ode ofe ohooh fo de she ode obo ode oderdeofe de odeobe ode oded

 

HOME
IS ONLY
MINUTES
AWAY

ON

PIEDMONT
, AIRLINES

Plan to fly

home soon on

Piedmont Airlines.
Piedmont serves
colleges, prep-schools

and home towns all

across the top

of the South

PLEDINONT
AIRLINES

serves you better

call Piedmont or your
Travel Agent.

 

says he is much impressed by Wash-
ington and Lee and its students.
Brown University was about the
same size when he went there as
Washington and Lee is now, he
points out, so there are many simi-
larities. But Lear says students’ atti-
tudes have changed since the early
1930’s. Today’s undergraduates,
most of whom are younger than his
oldest son, are more serious and
work harder than he and his class-
mates did, Lear believes.

 

 

Lexington
Laundro Matic

209 S. Main

*

HAND IRONED
SHIRTS
Dry Cleaning
Service

for your convenience

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   

WE FEATURE

HEAD SKIS...

THE MOST TALKED ABOUT
SKi ON EVERY SLOPE...
EVERYWHERE IN THE WORLD.

Frantz Supply Company

1209 Colorado Street
Salem, Virginia
DUpont 9-3340

 

Gene joined I

very clear that I

field where he co

in Rock Island.

lated area. Here
sound judgment ¢
He was promoted

 

 

 

 

4
’
4
4
4
4
4
4
‘
4
4
4
4
4
4
’
4
4
4
a
4
4
4

 

tempt to alter athletic policy. He ° e
stated that the faculty should have NOTICE BROWN’S eDodge and Dodge Darts
authority over the rules of eligibility The Phi Eta Si Cal , .
8 : gma Calyx pic- an *

for participation. ture will be taken on Tuesday, CLE ANING ° d nanan :

He concluded: “No organization of} March 14 at 5 p.m. in the Stu- WORKS ° America’s First Fine *
students, alumni or other persons—| dent Union. ° ?
excluding athletic conference organ- We Call f d Deli ° ECONOMY CAR «6
izations—should have any more to e rv Ase mh ver 4 * °
say about athletic policy or proce- Hamric and Sheridan our ' ° °
——— JEWELERS Student agents in the ||* Rockbridge Motor Co. ¢
eae: Watch and Jewelry Repair ||| dormitory and fraternities || INC. :
eccccecececesecceeeeeese|| Hand Engraving and Class Rings
° : ti poe me ||| Ho 3-2013 14 Randolph St.|/~ Phone HObart 3-3146 = §
: TEXACO °|| Secccccccccccccccccccees
° Super Service Station ¢| geeeaeees naan a
= Lexington, Virginia e : It’s Good usiness
3 commer Main and Neon | NEW TOWN INN 3||| THEDUTCH INN |||] 5S<4 pop ssines
Secccccccccccccccccecces : Short Orders—Lunches * For Reservation Call with IERER’S
Meteors oe odenfe ese oe oer otesteoteode ode sdeoteoteoh MRS. KATHERINE ADAMS
* Catering to Students ©
= ~~ sCALL BY NUMBER + g : HO 3-3433 PHARMACY
$ and Save Time SEEPS HERE
+
: LEXINGTON
3
4

When Gene Segin got his B.S. in Business Ad-
ministration at the University of Illinois, he was
in touch with 8 prospective employers.

llinois Bell Telephone Company

because: ‘““The people I talked to here’.made it

would not be shuffled into some

narrow specialized job. I thought this job offered
the greatest opportunity for broad experience.”

On his first assignment Gene was sent to Spring-

nducted courses in human rela-

tions for management people.

His next move was to a traffic operations job

On this assignment he was’ in

charge of all personnel who are directly: responsible
for handling telephone calls in this heavily. popu-

Gene earhed a reputation for
ind skill in working with people.
to Traffic Supervisor.

“Our number one aim is to have in all
management jobs the most vital, intelli-
positive and imaginative men we

gent,
can possibly find.”’ .
Frederick R. Kappel, President

American Telephone & Telegraph Co.

——

 

 

 

 

 

 

“| DON'T THINK THERE'S ANY END
TO THE OPPORTUNITY IN THIS BUSINESS”

 

 

 

Today, Gene’s chief responsibilities are in man-
agement training and development, and company-
union relations. The latter includes contract bar-
gaining and helping settle labor disputes.

How does. Gene feel about his job? “It’s a real
challenge. I’m in some of the most vital and in-
teresting work in the country.” And about the
future—“Well there aren’t any pushover jobs
around here. It’s tough. But if a man has what it
takes, 1 don’t think there’s any end to the oppor-

tunity in this business.”

* *

*

If you’re looking for a job with no ceiling on it—a job
where you're limited only by how much responsibility
you ‘can take and how well you can handle it—then
you'll want to visit your Placement Office for literature
and additional information on the Bell Companies.

 

BELL TELEPHONE COMPANIES
 

 

TUESDAY
Edition

Che Ring-tum Phi

Washington and Lee Semi-Weekly Newspaper

TUESDAY
Edition

 

Volume LXI

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA, MARCH 14, 1961

Number 42

 

Goldstein, Wood Elected To Head ‘62 Calyx

Vitsky

 

Brian Vitsky

ZBT Pre-Med
Has 2.92 Ratio

Brian Howard Vitsky, Zeta Beta
Tau senior from Richmond, Va., has
been chosen valedictorian of this

- year’s senior class. The valedictorian

each year is the member of the grad-
uating class who has compiled the
highest average in seven semester’s
work, Vitsky has a grade-point ra-
tio of 2.92, his only C being in gym.

_ Vitsky will receive a B.A. degree in

Pre-Med upon graduating.

Vitsky has been active in many
other fields besides academics. He is
the secretary of the senior class and
chairman of the Student Library
Committee. He is also president of
Phi Eta Sigma and AED, the hon-
orary medical fraternity.

In his sophomore year, Vitsky was

 

$100 Cash Awards Offered

By Journalism Department

The eighth annual competition for
the James Street Awards, for crea-
tive accomplishment in the audio-
visual media, was announced today
by the Department of Journalism
and Communications at Washington
and Lee University.

Awards are given for original
work in radio, motion picture, and
television, and may consist of tapes
of broadcast programs, completed
films, or scripts for any of the me-
dia. Judging is based upon original-
ity, importance of content, under-
standing of the medium, and effec-
tiveness.

Cash awards are given, with a
maximum value of $100. Eligible
are students who have completed
original work as a collateral assign-
ment in one of the media courses
offered by the department, or who
are regularly engaged in extra-
curricular projects of the Communi-
cations Laboratory.

The awards were established by
the late James Street, of Chapel
Hill, N.C., in 1954, to encourage ser-
ious creative work in the audio-
visual media. Awards in the past
have been given to a wide variety
of work, including documentaries,
original dramas and dramatic adap-
tations, experiments with sound, and
narrative and experimental films.

The deadline for the 1961 awards
is May 10.

 

NOTICE

There will be a meeting of the
Assimilation Committee tonight at
7 p.m. in the Student Union.

named by Phi Beta Kappa as the
outstanding member of the sopho-
more class. This award is given an-
nually to the sophomore with the
highest grade average. Vitsky was
initiated into Phi Beta Kappa last
year.

Last semester Vitsky served as
vice president of his fraternity, Zeta
Beta Tau. He was also the managing
editor of the 1960 Calyx.

Vitsky plans to enter Johns Hop-
kins Medical School after gradu-
ation.

The Valedictorian is picked each
year by the faculty. He must be
graduating with a Bachelor of Arts
or a Bachelor of Science degree. The
valedictorian has the responsibility
of giving the major address to the
graduating class at commencement.
Last year’s Valedictorian was Tom
Wieting.

 

Debaters Finish Second
In Ohio Invitational Meet;

Washington and Lee’s four-man
debate team finished second in team
points to Ball State in the Invita-
tional Debate Meet held Friday and
Saturday at Oxford, Ohio.

Washington and Lee also finished
second in the total number of awards
given out to teams.

Bill Boardman and Bill Buice,
debating the affirmative side of the
question, won awards of debating
excellence. John Lackey and Dick
Kelley debated the negative.

W&L defeated Cincinnati, Miami
of Ohio and Ohio State. Their losses
were to Hanover, Carnegie Tech and
Pittsburgh.

This was the first time this year
that W&L has competed in a cross-

(Continued on page 4)

 

 

Vann, Hughes, Zinn, Gray
Receive Woodrow Wilson
Grants For Study In 1962

By JULIAN MARKHAM

Washington and Lee’s four re-
cipients of the coveted Woodrow

Wilson Fellowships were announced

today by Dean of the College, Wil-
liam W. Pusey, II.

Receiving the highly competitive
awards are James A. Vann, James
L. Hughes, Lynwood D. Zinn, and
Grayfred B. Gray.

Screened from over 10,000 nomi-
nees in the United States and Cana-
da, these four are among 1,333
Woodrow Wilson Fellows selected
by the Woodrow Wilson National
Foundation. By covering a recipi-
ent’s expenses at the graduate school
of his choice, the Woodrow Wilson
Fellowships aim at
“highly qualified and highly moti-
vated” undergraduates to pursue col-
lege teaching as a career.

James Vann, a Phi Psi senior from
Birmingham, Ala., was president of
his junior class, and is currently
president of the Dance Board, an
Executive Committeeman, and pres-
ident of the Concert Guild, and a
member of ODK. Vann, a Phi Beta
Kappa, expects to continue his study
of history under the fellowship.

encouraging

Editor of the Shenandoah, David
Zinn will concentrate his study in
anthropology. Zinn is a philosophy
major from Clarksburg, W. Va.

James Hughes, a math major from
Richmond, Va., is a member of Phi
Eta Sigma and Phi Beta Kappa.
In graduate school Hughes will con-
tinue his study of mathematics.

Publisher of “Protest,” Grayfred
Gray is a member of the debate
team, the Troubadours, and a con-
tributor to the Southern Collegian.
Gray, also a member of Phi Eta Sig-
ma and Phi Beta Kappa, expects to
continue his study of philosophy in
graduate school.

The Woodrow Wilson National
Fellowship Foundation was estab-
lished in 1946. In its current budget,
a total of $3,000,000 will be spent
for the 1961-62 fellowships alone.
Noting a 21 percent increase in ap-
plications over the previous year,
the foundation’s national director,
Dr. Hans Rosenhaupt, believes that
a larger number of students are con-
sidering teaching as a “prestige”
eareer despite opportunities to earn
more in other fields.

 

 

Joe Goldstein

Robin Wood

 

Faure ‘Requiem’ Featured Sunday

In Joint Concert

By ROGER PAINE

The Longwood College Choir and
the Washington and Lee Glee Club
will open the spring musical season
this Sunday, March 19, with a joint
concert at the Lexington Presby-
terian Church. The two choral
groups will sing Faure’s “Requiem”
beginning at 4:30 Sunday afternoon.

Accompanying the two clubs will
be a 19-piece chamber orchestra
with brass, strings and woodwinds.
Mr. Robert Stewart of W&L will
conduct the “Requiem,” and Dr.
John Molnar of Longwood will con-
duct the two clubs in three selec-
tions from Handel’s “Messiah.” They
will do the “Hallelujah Chorus,”
“Worthy Is the Lamb,” and the final

Arnold Toynbee

 

 

With Longwood

“Amen.”

“Requiem” will be fully as much
a landmark in the annals of the
W&L Glee Club was Haydn’s
“The Seasons,” which was done
last year with the Hollins College
Choir. “Requiem” combines
smoothly flowing passages with
alternate brisk movements to pro-
duce one of the most famous musi-
cal compositions ever written.

Tomorrow afternoon the Glee
Club will leave the campus shortly
after lunch for a rehearsal at Long-
wood. After the concert is given
here in Lexington this Sunday, it
will be repeated for the benefit of

(Continued on page 4)

 

Chosen Valedictorion Of Graduating Class

New Editor Names Fourteen

For Tentative Staff Posts

By BILL NOELL
The Publications Board announced today that Joe Gold-

_ stein will edit the 1961-62 Calyx, and that Robin Wood will be

the new business manager. Ned Ames, a Delt senior and pres-

_ ent Calyx editor, expressed confidence in the abilities of these
| new officers.

Goldstein, a ZBT junior from Kingstree, South Carolina,

 

Coming Events

Tuesday, March 14
7:15 p.m.—The Graham-Lee So-
ciety presents the movie Orphee
(“Orpheus”). duPont Auditorium.
Members only.
Thursday, March 16
8:15 p.m.—Seminars in Literature
present John W. Aldridge, author
and critic. “The European Education
of Ernest Hemingway.” duPont Au-
ditorium.
Sunday, March 19
4:30 p.m.—Concert. Longwood Col-
lege Choir and W&L Glee Club.
Lexington Presbyterian Church.
Monday, March 20
3:15 p.m.—Lacrosse. W&L vs. Wil-
liams College.
8:00 p.m.—Debates. W&L and the
New Zealand debating team.
Wednesday, March 22
7:30 p.m.—The Military Department
presents Dr. William Jenks on “Hit-
ler’s Germany.” duPont Hall.
Friday, March 24
3:15 p.m.—Lacrosse. W&L vs. Uni-
versity of Maryland.
3:15 p.m.—Baseball.
Dartmouth.

W&L vs.

 

Mankind Seen As Self-Centered

By TOM LYBASS

Man’s “collective self-centered-
ness” may lead the human race to
commit mass suicide unless its search
for spiritual truth brings order out
of the chaos in world history. Only
when higher religions solve this

 

problem, “will we know whether
history makes sense.”

So Dr. Arnold Toynbee answered
the question, “Does History Make
Sense?” in a speech delivered to
an audience of 1,000 packed in Dore-
mus Gymnasium last Friday night.

Dr. Arnold Toynbee speaks before an estimated crowd of 1,000 students,
faculty members and visiting guests at his Friday night lecture at Doremus

 

Gymnasium,

—Photo by Young

Toynbee traced the three “strands”
of historical development—political,
technolgical, and spiritual. His con-
clusions were that “political history
makes no sense,” technological his-
tory has revealed “man’s most brill-
liant success” and spiritual history
shows “an increase in spiritual grace
that offers a possible solution to
the present position of man.”

“Technology and politics cannot be
separated,” the noted British phil-
osopher said. “The interplay has
culminated in the most senseless
episode to date.”

Deploring the use of the new found
powers of the atom for warfare, Dr.
Toynbee warned, “Mass suicide will
be within our power day after to-
morrow, if not now!” Man’s pri-
mary objective today is survival, but
“it is a negative objective.”

Toynbee called self-centeredness
and the worship of man’s “collective
power” the chief evils of the pres-
ent world. “Man’s conquest of na-
ture has led to worship of man’s
collective power, instead of a spirit-
ual power formerly thought to have
been manifested in nature.”

“In modern times this self-worship
has led to communism, fascism, and
totalitarianism,” he said. “This type
of self-worship is the religion of
fully 90 per cent of mankind.”

Toynbee also criticized Christiani-
ty for manifesting this same self-
centeredness. By claiming “that one
of the higher religions has a com-
plete claim to truth,” Christianity
has committed the arch-sin of self-
centeredness which is the chief
fault of today’s religion, he said.

“Of all higher religions,” the 71-
year-old scholar added, “only Hin-
duism has acknowledged that it is
not the only embodiment of spiritual
reality.”

“Throughout human history, man
has believed that there is something
that transcends our human na-
ture....man’s interpretation of this
reality has differed widely, and
through these conceptions have
seemed different to us, they may be
only different aspects of some ulti-
mate reality.”

 

 

—®has been academically prominent on

the campus for several years. Begin-
ning with his election to Phi Eta
Sigma in his freshman year, con-
tinuing with Dean’s List and Honor
Roll grades, and climaxing in his
recent election to Phi Beta Kappa
as the only junior this year who re-
ceived that distinction, he has dem-
onstrated his ability to do a superior
job. He served last year as a man-
aging editor of the Calyx to add to
his practical experience. In addi-
tion to these activities, Goldstein
is a member of Alpha Epsilon Del-
ta, honorary pre-med fraternity, and
has served as secretary of both the
Library Committee and Zeta Beta
Tau.

Robin Wood, an SAE junior from
Lynchburg, Va., has also been active
in Washington and Lee affairs.
While playing varsity football and
baseball, he has been able to main-
tain Dean’s List standing and now
has an overall 1.8 grade-point-ra-
tio. He is an IFC representative, and
is presently that organization’s so-
cial chairman. Like Goldstein, he has
participated in his fraternity’s af-
fairs by serving as its secretary.
Further, he is active in the Trouba-
dours and the SWMSFC musical.

Goldstein has announced the fol-
lowing tentative appointments for
members of his staff: assistant edi-
tor, Steve Galef; managing editors,
Bob Payne and Herb Salomon; ad-
ministration editor, John Poyner;
classes editor, Cotton Rawls; organ-
ization editors, Randy Cole and Buck
Ogilvie; feature editor, Pete Agelas-
to; fraternities editor, John Madison;
sports editors, Phil Sharp, Syd But-
ler, and Barry Greene.

At the same time, Wood announc-
ed that Danny Markstein would as-
sist him in handling the in-town
advertising and that Bill Broadman
would handle the out-of-town ad-
vertising.

Both Goldstein and Wood an-
nounced enthusiastically that they
were very pleased to have received
their positions and that they hope to
give the university a representative
yearbook.

Important Letter

Editor, The Ring-tum Phi
Dear Sir:

Two weeks ago Ed Webster wrote
a column which soundly criticized
the Southern Collegian. Some of
what he said is, unfortunately, the
truth. But I believe he has mis-
construed the purpose of The Col-
legian and has accused it of some-
thing which is hardly limited to the
Collegian alone.

Webster claimed that The Col-
legian has degenerated from its past
years. This is, in some ways, a just
criticism, but The Collegian’s purpose
as a college humor magazine is still
being carried out quite adequately,
although the staff is reduced from
what it was five years ago.

The student apathy which has af-
fected The Collegian is something
which goes far deeper than simply
lack of good satirists at W&L. Yes-
terday when the Publications Board
held interviews for the positions of
Editor and Business Manager of the
Calyx, there were only two ap-
plicants—those two were elect-
ed to the positions. Both editions of
the Ring-tum Phi had carried an-
nouncements about the dates of the
interviews for the three weeks pre-
vious to the interview date.

But whether Webster was using
The Collegian as his whipping boy
or not is really not important. The
real question lies not with what is
right or wrong with The Southern

(Continued on page 4)
Page 2

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

Che Ring-tum Phi
‘Heads Or Tails’

The Student War Memorial Scholarship Fund Committee
will sponsor the annual spring musical show with the hope of
raising a substantial sum of money for the purpose of grant-
ing additional scholarship aid to needy applicants to Wash-
ington and Lee. This year’s show promises to be the best
that has been produced on our campus.

The show, which is entitled Heads or Tails, is directed by
Steve Danzansky, the director of last year’s musical, The Can-
non’s Mouth which was outstanding enough to merit favorable
remarks from Richard Coe of the Washington Post. Danzansky
has done an excellent job in writing both the script and the mu-
sic. The theme of the show is taken from Aristophanes’ Lysis
trata.

The Committee has engaged a professional arranger, Crane
Calder, who has worked on Broadway with Rodgers and Ham-
merstein, to arrange Danzansky’s melody for voice, orchestra
and piano. The addition of this professional touch should in-
crease the quality of the production.

This year’s female cast is made up of some fifteen girls
from Sweet Briar College. These girls are transported to the
WeL campus four times weekly for rehearsals in the old
Co-op. Members of the Committee take four turns each in
the car pool. In all, there will be some 125 people involved
in the production of the show.

Tickets for the show, which runs from Monday, April 10
through Saturday, April 15 (the week before and including
Spring Dances) have been on sale for one week. They have
been sold by members of the Committee in the lobby of Wash-
ington Hall, in the freshman dormitory, and in the fraternity
houses. At present, they are on sale in the Co-op. Attempts
will be made to sell tickets to the faculty and the townspeople.

Until spring vacation, the tickets will be sold for $2.00
per seat. Beginning April 3, the price will be increased by fifty
cents. The house managers have agreed to allow the students
to charge the tickets on their house bills. The above provisions
were made to increase the early sale of tickets.

We understand that the Committee has high hopes of
putting the show on the road the week after its stand in Lex-
ington. As far as we can gather, nothing final has been done
along these lines, and any decision depends upon the arrange-
ments that can be made in the Lynchburg-Roanoke-Richmond
area for theater space, ticket sales, etc. The profits from such
a trip would certainly warrant the extra work and inconvience
to both the cast and the Committee. Both groups have agreed
to make the necessary sacrifices.

The administration at Sweet Briar has been most coopera-
tive in allowing their girls to participate in the show, and Dan-
zansky has been able to select an experienced and talented cast
for his production. The girls leave the Date House at Sweet
Briar at 6:00 each evening and return at midnight. It is evi-
dent that participation in the show requires no small sacrifice
on their part.

The amount of time and effort which goes into a show of
this sort is immeasurable. The expenses are unusually large es-
pecially when the size of the theater and the available audience
is considered. The quality of the cast is excellent. The prepara-
tion has been adequate. The success depends largely upon the
support the show receives from the student body.

Of the 125 persons involved in the production, over one
hundred are directly connected with the W&L community.
The orchestra, headed by Gene Johnson and made up of stu-
dents from W&L and Sweet Briar, is experienced and well
directed. The participation in the nightly rehearsals by the
wives of students and law students, who in some cases are forced
to hire babysitters during rehearsal hours, would indicate that
the show is drawing talent from all segments of the student
body.

The SWMSFC is an organization made up of students
who have expressed a desire to aid other less fortunate students
to attend our university. These boys, under the capable leader-
ship of President David Lefkowitz, have done all that is in their
power to make this year’s show a financial success.

The total number of seats in the Troubadour Theat-
er for all performances is considerably less than the total
number of students attending Washington and Lee. In
view of this fact, we feel that the Committee should
have no trouble filling the theater for the seven perfor-
ances. The director, the cast, and the Committee deserve
the support of every member of the college community.
They will offer the type of show that will warrant this

support.

 

 

 

UAE /CHARLIE BROWN, I

 
     

   

HAVE NATURALLY
CORLY HAIR!

 

 

 

FRIEDA PRIDES HERSELF ON
BE HERE SOON? I BELONG TO | | ,
|WERE GETTING A GOOD PICTURE ON

GUR TV, THE PROGRAMS ARE LOUSH!

 

 

 

 

  

 

A Fable:
The Evolution
Of GRIPE

By STEVE HENRY

Once upon a time there was a
little boy named Brownfred Brown
who grew up and went to a liberal
arts college where he lived in a
Bohemian apartment over a run-
down movie theatre.

Brownfred, you see, was a very
arty type.

He did not like to shave. He did
not particulary like clean clothes.
He did not like people.

“Most people stink,” growled
Brownfred one afternoon in his pad
while a campus reporter cringed in
the corner.

In short, Brownfred did not like
much at all.

Except, that is, he liked to gripe.
He griped about everything. He
griped about institutions, people,
teachers, names, systems. You name
it, Brownfred griped about it.

The only trouble was that people
got tired of hearing Brownfred’s
head rattle. Whenever he began talk-
ing, his audience would somehow
find an excuse to leave.

“Take a dive, Brownfred,” they
would say.

Now all this would have discour-
aged an ordinary man, but Brown-
fred was far from normal.

“They are all wrong and I am
right,” he growled, and left school.
He stayed away for maybe a year,
developing a literary style. Then he
returned.

“Now my pen will talk for me,”
said Brown. “I’ve seen a lot of life
and need to talk about what I don’t
like.”

The first issue of GRIPE, a week-
ly dump-sheet, appeared shortly af-
terward.

“I am devoted to causes,” penned
Brown, but failed to mention any of
them specifically. “I am opposed to
conformity. I hate apathy. I despise
oppressors. I love freedom.”

“I am going to shock this student
body into action.”

For 14 weeks, he religiously turned
out an issue of GRIPE. He attacked
everything—people, customs, organi-
zations. He proposed changes. He
was radical, liberal, the symbol of
freedom.

Then he sat back and waited for
any sign or movement among the
student body which might indicate
what he called a “healthy trend.”

“Take a dive, Brownfred,” laughed
the student body, all except a few
who thought maybe Brown had some
points to make but wasn’t exactly
sure what the points were.

The trouble was that no one could
decide whether Brownfred had any-
thing to say or whether he was just
griping as usual.

Besides, by the time the reader
waded through Brown’s endless pla-
titudes directed against the univer-
sity, he was too worn out and dis-
gusted to worry about who was right
or wrong.

To make a long story short, there
was no rebellion, no change, no
nothing. The school, and it was a
very good one to start with, scorned
Brownfred just as he had tried to
scorn it.

Which disturbed Brownfred great-
ly, because he was a very sensitive
boy and after all did believe in what
he was doing.

He lapsed into a state of melan-
choly, and for long periods would
not come out of his room except at
night when he would walk up and
down the streets of town reciting
“The World Is Too Much With Us.”

Brownfred, for all practical pur-
poses, was a broken spirit.

And then it happened. Brownfred
fell in love, fell in love with a very
proper girl from Upper Montclair,
New Jersey, whose father dabbled
in the stock market and did not care
for changes at all.

So Brownfred cleaned up _ his
apartment and shaved and took a
bath and courted the girl, and final-
ly they were married.

Now Brownfred is very happy in-
deed. He has a good job with his
father-in-law’s firm, and will prob-
ably be a junior partner by June.
He and his wife and in-laws are get-
ting along well.

One day Brownfred dug up some
old copies of GRIPE, which he had
locked away after he had met his
wife.

“What tripe!” laughed Brownfred.
“How could I have ever written
this? How could I have believed that
I could change the world?” And he
and his wife had a good laugh be-
fore dinner.

Secretly though, Brownfred would
still like to swim the Hellespont.

 

Notice

Pi Sigma Alpha will meet in New-
comb 8 at 7:30 Thursday. The meet-
ing, at which the pros and cons of
federal aid to education will be dis-
cussed, will be open to the students.

 

Honor System Depends On Self-Control,
Student Body Meetings Are Unnecessary

By BILL ROBERTS

The editor(s) of “Protest” have
pointed out quite a few things wrong
with Washington and Lee, despite
their disgustingly self-conscious and
defensive manner.

They believe firmly that answers
can be found to problems and that
answers are worth looking for. They
are unwilling to accept our predom-
inate theme—“what is is right.”

We disagree with Mr. Gray’s pro-
gram to make the honor system spe-
cific but we are impressed with his
efforts to make the Code a meaning-
ful part of Washington and Lee life.
There is a great deal of uncertainty
among the student body about what
is honorable and what is not. The

 

Executive Committee has a positive
responsibility to help the student
body formulate its own concept of
honor.

We think that the flexibility of the
honor system created by leaving its
interpretation to each student gen-
eration is one of the greatest bene-
fits of the system at Washington and
Lee. But the Executive Committee
confines its role a great deal when
it will only interpret the system as
a judicial body, passing on some-
one’s privilege to be a Washington
and Lee man.

There are great many practices,
not at all uncommon, which one is
likely to question as wholly “honor-
able.” We cannot lie (except to the

 

A Salute To Unsung Heroes

Of Halls, Lawns

By HUGO HOOGENBOOM

In the course of our busy activity
on campus, drinking deep at the
fountain of knowledge, we sometimes
tend to forget (or even ignore) those
humble souls who make our cere-
bral life possible by performing those
menial tasks necessary to keep even
such a spiritual institution as ours
running. These men might well be
termed “the unsung heroes of Wash-
ington and Lee.”

For example, there is our splendid
janitorial staff. Toiling faithfully,
without regard to time or personal
gain, they exemplify a spirit of sac-
rifice well in tune with the ideals of
this university. This they do so that
we scholars may carry on our quest
for learning unfettered by mundane
concerns. Who, having once seen
these gallant men going about their
daily tasks can fail to be stirred by
this devotion to duty?

But the mere quantity of work
these men do is not what merits
this praise—any drudge can work
hard—it is the meticulous care and
attention to the least detail that
merits it. Of these few souls it may
be truly said that they understood
the meaning of the saying “If it’s
worth doing, it’s worth doing well.”

 

And Counters

Our janitors are not the only un-
recognized toilers in this academic
vineyard. There is also that brave
little band in charge of the grounds
of the university. One has only to
gaze on the lush greensward (which
would excite envy in the ancient
English earl) to appreciate the ir-
replaceable service the ground crew
renders us.

In the fall they can be seen en-
gaged in the never-ending task of
raking and collecting leaves. Whole
platoons of them, cheerfully clean-
ing up Nature’s rubbish. Few people
realize that if these leaves were al-
lowed to accumulate in great drifts
about the campus, careless scholars,
immersed in higher thought, might
stumble and suffocate in these piles
of leaves, never to be seen again
until the Spring Thaw.

While it is true that these men
disappear during the winter, it is not
because they are faithless; it is simp-
ly because of the toll that their hard
physical labor in the fall has taken
on them. But rest assured that
wherever they go, they think only of
us and their return in the spring.

And in the spring they do return,
to spread hay on the grass, punch

(Continued on page 4)

 

Webster Unabridged

 

‘Protest’ Convention Is Plausible,

But Is Majority Worthy Of Trust?

By ED WEBSTER

For the next month, the honor
system will probably become a topic
of intense—and, I hope, construc-
tive—debate.

Debate is not new to the honor
system, for the Executive Committee
itself has already considered—in
private — several proposals for
changing it. However, not even the
EC has been able to reach agreement
on some aspects of the system.

Last Friday, Grayfred Gray, the
editor of “Protest,” climaxed four
weeks of indictments of the present
system with a detailed program for
revising it. He plans to start bring-
ing his proposals to a vote after
April 10. In order to do this, he’ll
probably have to present a petition
bearing 50 signatures.

Judging from some student reac-
tion which I have observed, 50 op-
ponents of the present system won’t
be hard to find. But whichever side
wins, let it win by a vigorous and
open defense of its principles, well
documented by factual evidence.

Gray charges that the main
faults of the present system are its
uncertainties; students cannot al-

 

Paine’s Pearls

By ROGER PAINE

If the character of the cast mem-
bers for Steve Danzansky’s new mu-
sical is any indication, the show
should be worthwhile. Rumor has it
that Debra Doherty, a Sweet Briar
girl who plays the rather masculine
female lead as Lysistrata has re-
ceived a special request from the
Department of the Navy to become
a Drill Instructor for the Women’s
Marine Corps.

* * =

The Troubadours production of
“Henry IV” was certainly one of the
best dramatic efforts that has been
shown at W&L in many moons.
Bob Allen and Susan Howard are
both to be especially commended
for their fine performances.

1 * =

It’s fertilizer time for the sloping
yellow grass at W&L, and it would
be muchly appreciated by all if
those who are in the eapacity of
fertilizer spreaders will start spread-
ing while everone still has colds
from the changes in weather.

 

ways be sure what constitutes a
violation, nor can they be sure
that the defendant is receiving an
absolutely fair trial.

Such uncertainties, however, are
inherent in any system of crime and
punishment. Gray’s proposals con-
tain no guarantee that they would
be mitigated.

Quadrennial student conventions
for the purpose of updating the list
of dishonorable offenses, as Gary
proposes, seem plausible at first
glance. The determining factor in
such conventions would presumably
be a veto of the majority. But is the
majority always reliable in matters
of honor? Might the majority pos-
sibly be more inclined to vote in
favor of convenience?

Perhaps a better way of defining
the “public opinion of the student
generation involved” would be to in-
terpret this as meaning the best
opinion—for instance, the E.C.. It is
because they are men of above-aver-
erage intelligence and understanding
that the members of the E.C. have
been elected by their fellow students.

The students thus have given the
E.C. the right to judge each case
on its merits. Let us not shackle
this body with detailed rules which
might lead to unjust convictions or
undeserved acquittals. The only
necessary rule is a familiar one:
no W&L man, while engaged in
any college activity, shall lie, cheat
or steal.

Some further points may be briefly
treated:

1. Gray suggests that the accused
should be informed of the specific
charges against him. This is only
fair. I would also suggest that the
charge be made in writing, and that
the prosecution be confined to the
proof of this charge.

2. Gray suggests that the defen-
dant be given enough time to pre-
pare his case. (Even at VMI the
defendant is given 24 hours.) Per-
haps this pre-trial work could be
done through a defense counsel,
chosen from the E.C. by the accused.

3. The present rules provide that a
two-thirds vote of the E.C. shall be
sufficient to convict. Disagreement
by the other one-third of the E.C.,
however, implies that the guilt has
not been established beyond a
reasonable doubt. A unanimous vote
should be required.

 

ABC Store salesmen). We are strict-
ly honest in all our business dealings
(except those having to do with
telephones). We do not steal (ex-
cept liquor, raincoats, and “trophies”
from U.Va., Sweet Briar, the state
highway department, etc.) We do not
cheat (except that we are allowed to
skip an occasional footnote).

There are many men here who
would like to see these practices
stop. But it would be ridiculous to
turn another man in for any of them.
He would in all probability be asked
to leave school for an offense which
was condoned by most of his fellow
students, judging by their reluctance
to turn in the numerous others who
were equally guilty.

The Role of the EC

Is this because the Executive Com-
mittee’s honor is higher than that of
the student body at large? In all
probability it is. But more important,
the Executive Committee must ad-
minister the honor system—they are
constantly aware of the stern de-
mands honor makes on a man. Thus
they judge an action on the basis of
the high standards of honor laid
down and exemplified by General
Lee as president of this university.
The rest of the student body is more
lax—if they were not lax in their de-
votion to honor they would not have
allowed the situation Mr. Gray is
worried about to arise .

But the situation exists and some-
thing must be done about it. Nothing
will be accomplished by setting up
a convention to draft a set of rules
for honorable behavior. Honor is
based in the heart of the individual.
It ceases to be honor when it be-
comes common law.

Solution Is Personal

The answer seems to be rather
simple. Many of us have come from
schools and societies in which there
is little or no respect for a concept
of honor. We have continued to
hold and practice the values of those
groups at Washington and Lee as far
as seemed possible. We accept and
approve the current opinion when
we came here that the more flagrant
examples of lying, cheating, and
stealing were dishonorable. But we
never stopped to re-evaluate the
small matters of honor. We prob-
ably did not commit a breach of
honor of any kind ourselves but we
were inclined to laugh off the fra-
ternity brother who stole smudge
pots from the big hole in the road to
Buena Vista, or the one who passed
a bad check deliberately. That was
his business, not ours.

The crime is not that we didn’t
turn him in to the EC, but that we
didn’t stop and ask him immediately,
“Do you think this action becomes
a Washington and Lee man and a
gentleman?” The odds are 1000-1 he
wouldn’t think so.

Honor System at Stake

But these little things have been
going on for some time now. A
concerned and vocal interest in the
Honor System by the student body
is desperately needed to save it from
the indifference which has killed it
at schools like William and Mary.
All we have to do is ask ourselves
the simple question “Is this honor-
able?” before we do something which
might include lying, cheating, or
stealing. If anyone stops asking this
question, he is no credit to Wash-
ington and Lee. If more than a very
few of us stop asking the question,
the Honor System is dead. In such a
case it would be wise to do Generals
Lee and Washington the credit of
renaming this university and replace
them with a chosen unscrupulous
businessman and some outstanding
political charlatan.

 

Notice

All members of the football team
who attended the annual banquet on
February 25 with dates must pay
$1.50 to Ken Brandenburgh at the
Delt house, or the coaches’ office,
before March 18.

 

Che Ring-tum Phi

Tuesday Edition

The Ring-tum Phi is published Tues-
day and Friday during the college year.
It is printed 4 the Journalism Labor-
ony Press. sapinaten, and Lee Uni-
versity. e mailing address is Box
899, Lexington, Va, . .

Entered ag second class matter Sep-
tember 20, 1946 at the Post Office, Lex-
ington, Va., under the act of March
8, 1878.

National Advertising Representative:
The National Advertisers ervice, Inc.,
420 Madison Ave., New York, N.Y.

MGT citicitmiins Rosewell Page, III
Business Manager.............. Huntley Biggs

Editorial Board
Managing Editot.........c.0.0..... Bill Roberts
Assistant Managing Editor..................
sinsess ssid biebinaidanbbeana iti inien ad Steve Galef
..Bob Bridewell

ee Steve Guild
Associate Editors........ Lanny Butler, Bill

Smith, Ronnie King
Photography Editor................. Bill Young
Advertising Manager... Jerome Dattel
Circulation Manager........ Peter Agelesto

   
 
THE RING-TUM PHI

Page 3

 

 

Jim Hickey crosses the finish line in the practice track meet held last Saturday afternoon.

—Photo by Young

Track Season Starts Thurs.

With the first track meet coming
up tomorrow, Coach Lord is keep-
ing his fingers crossed. Although the
squad had an excellent season last
year, there has been a sparse turn-
out this spring and many of the
places will have to be filled by
freshmen. Fortunately there seem to
be quite a few talented freshmen,
among them Skip Essex, Robin Kell,
Spence McEvoy, Henry Sackett,
Dave and Norm Youngblood.

Mike Shank, a veteran, will con-
tinue to hold down the number one
spot in both the one and two mile
runs. Shank will be doing his best
to break 4:40 in the mile. Jim Hick-
ey, this year’s captain, ran the 100

 

in 9.9 last year and hopes to do
even better this year. Joining Hick-
ey in the dashes will be Sackett and
Britt. Ken Kowalski and Mickey
Walker are expected to hold their
own in the javelin while Tom Ed-
wards is again looking well in the
broad jump.

The hurdles are somewhat of a
question mark with Ed Croft and
Ashley Wiltshire likely prospects.
Skip Essex, who did well during
the indoor season will probably hold
down the 440, but he may have
stiff competition from Norm Young-
blood in the 880. Robin Kell will
likely do well in the broad jump
while Cruger and Dave Monroe will

be out to break 45 feet in the shot
put.
Here is this season’s schedule:

Mar. 16—High Point College....Here
Mar. 23—Wake Forest
Mar. 25—Florida Relay.............

Apr. 10—East Carolina Coll.......Here
Apr. 13—Univ. of Richmond....
Apr. 14-15—Quantico Relays...

Apr. 20—Hampden-Sydney
Apr. 22—Pilot Relays, Frosh....
Apr. 25—Lynchburg College....
Apr. 28-29—Penn Relay............. Away
Apr. 27—Elon College
May 2—Randolph-Macon

 

May 6—State Meet....Lynchburg, Va.

 

Maynard Wins Honors At Princeton Meet

Elliott Maynard, Washington and
Lee’s ace swimmer, returned from
the East Coast Intercollegiate meet
held last weekend with second and
sixth places in the 100 yard and
200 yard breast stroke, respectively.

The meet which is held every year
was at Princeton this year and over
40 schools participated in the event.
All of the schools were from the
East coast including the Ivy League
schools.

Maynard had a 2:24 in the quali-
fying round for the 200 yard and a
1:046 in the 100 yard qualifying
round.

 

NOTICE
There will be a meeting of the
Tuesday staff of the Ring-tum Phi
on Friday at 2 p.m. in the Student
Union.

$490600000 0S 00 0000:

White’s Music

Store

(Opposite State Theater)
ik
Phonographs—Hi-Fi
Expert Repair Service
|

5 W. Nelson St.

 

Lexington, Va.
HO 3-3522

errrrrrrrrtt''t't'errrr1gTjjT't*t'eeetee =

‘(Se Me Me Be Ba Ba Ba Me Be Ma Ma Bo Be Me Ma Ma Ma Ma Me Ba Me Be Be Be Ba Baie Ba Be Bo Be Bin ie Be
S©OSSSSSeSOOSeeeeeeeeeed

 

Ee Fo eferho nfo rhe fend oho rhe fe she aonfonge sheaf ole rte oooh ae nfo re ole nfo ode ale fe ole oe ofe oe oe

%
%
+
+
+
*
+
*
+

dhe whe Me Se ate Be Be oe he Be Be Be che
Oe ee ee ee ee

 

 

For SPRING and EASTER

Vacations
2

SPECIAL COLLEGE RATES |

BILTMORE
$ 525 per person

95 per person
$625 (2 to a room)

$g00 single

For information or reservations
address Mr. Ralph Schaffner,
The Biltmore, New York 17, N. Y.
Madison Avenue at 43rd Street
Murray Hill 7-7000
“(WHERE EVERYONE MEETS
UNDER THE CLOCK”

His opponent in the 100 yard had a
1:02 which broke the pool record
and Maynard came in second with
a 1:04 in the regular competition in
in the 100.

In the 200 yard event Maynard’s
sixth place was among the four
other contestants between fourth
and seventh places who were sepa-
rated by only one-half a second.

Coach Norm Eastman said that
“naturally I am very proud of El-
liot and feel that he deserves to

 

 

For those extra pieces

of
FURNITURE

for your room
see our stock
before buying

eB
VARNER AND POLE

 

 

 

 

be in among the top ten swimmers
in the country. I only wish he could
go to the nationals which are next
week in Seattle. However, we are
keeping our fingers crossed for an
All-American.”

 

OO
ee eee ee ee eee ee

 

THE NEW

White Top

Restaurant
*

ale s%ecBe ste he Beste Be

A personal invitation
to the
Students
Try our delicious foods
Route 60 East

TrTTssss™r™re''™'rtvues.1,,1,Fr‘.rure

 

LAjLAL£L 6144544451543. 245.3.2.2. 2.2.22 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2
ee eee ee eS SS eS Ss SS eS SS ST Tee

2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2s 2 2 2 2 © 2

ee ea a ee ME ae PRY Mat gS PES Ee a MES PE ET

 

 

Finest
Choice

SUNDAY

Ted’s Steak House

wv

Route 60 Buena Vista

Foods
Meats

DINNERS

 

 

The Southern Inn

Cordially invites you to make this your headquarters for good food
Here you get the best food for the most reasonable prices

Our Specialties:
Steaks, Chicken, Country Ham, and the best sandwiches

in town

Meet your friends here

 

 

 

 

 

Open a convenient student Checking account
TODAY

at

Rockbridge National Bank

Member Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation

 

 

Lacrosse Team Prepares
For Md., English Teams

By BARRY GREENE

“The English will be tough, and
Maryland will be tougher,” were
the words of lacrosse coach Mc-
Henry as he expressed his views on
the opening lacrosse games. A strong
Maryland squad will play here on
March 22, and the English All-Stars
invade Lexington on the 23rd.

Coach McHenry feels that the
Maryland team is a smart, tough
club with a lot of experience. Most
of this experience can be attributed
to the fact that Maryland gets a lot
of Baltimore boys, and the Balti-
more boys seem to be the ones with
the most previous experience. How-
ever, in the words of McHenry, “we
like Baltimore boys, but we like
athletes more.” McHenry feels that
we have a hustling, spirited ball club
and that we’ve not only got some
experience, but the team also pos-
sesses many prize football players
such as Steve Suttle, Terry Fohs,
and Charlie Gummey who are real
assets because of their love for con-
tact.

On March 23 the Oxford-Cam-
bridge University lacrosse team
will open an _ eleven-game_ tour
against United States Intercollegiate
Lacrosse Association Teams, when
they take the field against the Gen-
erals. The visitors will play under
United States Collegiate lacrosse
rules instead of English rules. To
this coach McHenry added, “the
English will be a little handicapped
by the change of rules, but we'll
be handicapped by playing Maryland
the day before. It should be interest-
ing to watch.

This will be the first visit of an
Oxford-Cambridge squad to the
United States in thirty years. How-
ever, Rensselaer Polytechnic Insti-
tute, the University of Virginia,
Washington and Lee, and Johns
Hopkins have made trips to England
in the past twelve years.

Last week the Generals were beat-
en by the University of Virginia

 

 

LEXINGTON
CLEANERS

Phone HO 3-3813 108 S. Jefferson

 

lacrosse team in a scrimmage by
the score of 14 to 3. The coach is
not discouraged though. He feels
that the game was a big help, and
that we learned a lot. McHenry
added, “They have a lot of Balti-
more boys, therefore, they have twice
as much experience. However, from
now until the end of the season
Virginia will improve a little, and
we will improve a lot.”

So far the players who have
played the most have been attack-
men Les Peard, Ray Miller, Ray
Gordon, and Jimmy Powers; de-
fensemen Barton Mitchell, co-cap-
tain John Dinkel, and Danny Reed;
and two units of mid-fielders,
Charlie Gummey, co-captain Hunt-
er Tracht, and Terry Fohs in one un-
it; Randy Wooton, Steve Stull, Steve
Suttle, and Billy Spenser-Strong
on the other unit. The goalies have
been Pete Noonan and Herb Tinley.
Upcoming freshmen include Pete
Noonan, Jim Powers, John Mc-
Daniel, and Ed Jansen.

As for the out look, Coach Mc-
Henry says, “Injury-wise we’ve been
real lucky; with the exception of
Jerry Hyatt’s knee injury and a few
bumps and bruises, the team is in
good shape. Maryland and the Eng-
lish will be really tough; but we’ve
been lucky with the weather. Last
year at this time we had only been
outside once; so far we’ve been out
twelve times. The boys are improv-
ing, and we'll give them a good
fight.”

 

NOTICE
There will be a Student War Me-
morial Scholarship Fund Committee
meeting tonight at 7 in the Student
Union.

 

Letter Suggests
Faculty’s Team
Challenge PiKA

Editor
The Ring-tum Phi
Dear Sir:

This is a sort of “set the record
straight” letter regarding intramural
handball. A recent R-t P account
mentioned how the Phi Psi’s had
won the title “the past few years.”
Indeed, the Phi Psi’s did win last
year, but the year before a faculty
team swept aside all opposition,
7-0 in team matches and 34-1 in
individual matches, and copped the
trophy. Of course, everyone recalls
that the student Intramural leaders
then said, in effect, “Well, if you’re
going to win when you compete, then
you just can’t compete!” So, the
faculty was ruled ineligible, just
when we’d managed to recruit a
promising newcomer by the name
of Cole. Anyhow, I’m told that the
IM authorities relented, made us
eligible again this year, but then
neglected to inform our leader when
the competition would start. Thus,
we missed out again, although that
is neither here nor there as far as
our individual players are concerned.
We found year before last that there
really isn’t much sport in games that
are won by 21 service aces.

The difficulty in deciding the
championship this year can mean
one of two things: 1) the competi-
tion is getting better and more
evenly balanced among the students,
or 2) the Phi Psi’s have slipped ter-
ribly and nobody, but nobody, is
any good among the students’ team-
wise, that is.

It is recalled that lasts year in a
fit of everconfidence, the champion

(Continued on page 4)

 

 

College Outlines
Hymarx Outlines
Made Simple Series

 

ee a eee

nl le el ln thc lt tn eth crt tht th the th th

 

i A i i i i i i i i i

WANT TO CUT SHORT THE STUDY?
try our

The Book Shop

W. Washington Street

rrr errr

~~
~~ |
i tte

Barrons Series
Data Guides
Vocabulary Cards

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

PDT

 

  
  

 

x

”
Wo

 

2
~ 3
«

AH, SPRING!

 

 

 

 

 

 
Page 4

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

Letters To The Editor

(Continued from page 3)

Phi Psi’s challenged the faculty
team to a sort of “bowl” match, if
you will. Actually, only three match-
es were played—two singles and the
doubles—with the score 3-0 for the
faculty, the other two singles match-
es were never scheduled.

I don’t suppose the champion PiKA
team would be interested in any
post-season competition. Should
their recent triumphs carry them to
the same dizzy heights of vainglory,
perhaps a match could be arranged.
However, as a safeguard against
wasting valuable faculty time, it
might be prudent to suggest a match
between the PiKA No. 1 man and
the faculty’s No. 6 man. In the un-
likely event of a PiKA win here,
then perhaps a team face-off
wouldn’t prove too much of a mis-
match. Or better still, perhaps an
intramural all-star squad might en-
gage the faculty team. Of course,
all of this is entirely up to the
students. It certainly isn’t the faculty
team’s wish to tarnish in any way
the glitter of a student team’s claim
to being “school champs.”

Modestly yours,

F. Arthur Parsons
Faculty Team Manager

 

 

STATE

LEXINGTON. VA
L_ MOSART 3-342 |

 

 

WED.-THURS.
SEARING-RAW
ON THE SCREEN
FROM THE
GLOWING: HOT
PAGES OF THE
BEST- SELLER!

   

 

ZIMBALIST UR: DICKINSON
KELLY -AMECHE sx DANTON
MARSHALL-MARTIN WARNER Bros.

   

(Continued from page 1)

Collegian, but what has happened to
the enthusiasm that certainly should
be inherent in a student body such
as the one at Washington and Lee.
This apathy seems to pervade the
entire student body.

I would suggest, however, that to
condemn The Collegian would be a
big mistake. It remains just as es-
sential a publication as either the
Ring-tum Phi or the Calyx. A well-
written satire in The Collegian can
be ten times more effective than a
hundred editorials in the Ring-tum
Phi on the same subject.

The Collegian should be a twen-
tieth century parellel to Addison
and Steele’s Spectator, and with
eareful thought and consideration,
its articles could be most effective
in pointing out some of the things
about Washington and Lee that,
from the students’ point of view,
might be improved. The Spectator
became so respected that it could
call all men fools and have them
agree. The Collegian certainly has
a few beams to remove before it
starts picking out the motes around
W&L, but this is no reason to con-
demn it. I would suggest that Webs-
ter began throwing stones without
sufficient forethought.

Apathy on campus is easy to talk
about; replacing it with enthusiasm
will require perservance and dedi-
cation. But it can be done, and shall
be done. The complexion of The
Collegian is already changing, just
as surely as is the complexion of the
entire University. We have the po-
tential—what we do not need is the
seeming overabundance of self-
styled prophets of doom.

Sincerely yours,

Roger Paine

TUES.-WED.

 

 

 

“RARELY HAS SEXUAL OBSESSION
BEEN SO ACCURATELY
OBSERVED." sritish Fitm institute

INGMAR BERGMAN'S \L_

 

Repeat Concert
At Longwood

(Continued from page 1)

the Longwood student body in
Farmville at a later date.

This Sunday’s concert marks only
the beginning of what will be the
most active spring season in the
Glee Club’s history. After the Long-
wood concerts, the club will sing
a full program with the Westhamp-
ton College Choir later on in the
spring. This program will be pre-
sented both at W&L in the Dore-
mus Gymnasium and at Richmond.

A spring tour which will cul-
minate with an informal concert
for Washington and Lee alumni in
and around Wilmington, Del., to be
given on May 3, will complete the
Glee Club’s schedule. The alumni
in Wilmington have been planning
this concert for over a year, and
have prepared a cocktail party for
the club after the concert.

In addition to numerous live con-
certs, the Glee Club is now record-
ing a 12-inch long playing album
featuring Christmas carols. Includ-
ed with these carols will be some
of the most outstanding numbers
from the club’s all new 1961 reper-
toire, which will be presented to the
school at the spring concert with
Westhampton. This record, being
taken on stereophonic tape, will be
released for sale during Parents’
Weekend next fall.

LEELA
IDEAL ;
BARBER SHOP ;
*

:

%

QUICK SERVICE
Wee be shone ne afer ere rte ee oho rte ode obo afete oho rfore

 

POPES ey

 

A

Journalism Department
Receives Two Gifts

Two gifts have been made to the
Director’s Fund of Washington and
Lee’s Lee Memorial Journalism
Foundation, according to Prof. O.W.
Riegel, head of the journalism and
communications department.

John P. French of Topeka, Kan.,
has donated $1,000 to be applied to
a fund for financial aid to students
majoring in journalism. The second
gift to the fund is from the Clifton
Forge Daily Review, Virginia’s
smallest daily newspaper. The Re-
view made a contribution to the Di-
rectors Fund in 1960. Jack B.
Thompson is editor of the paper.

Two previous gifts have been re-
ceived from the John French Foun-
dation. French is a 1950 graduate of
Washington and Lee is is president
of Luce Press Clipping Service.

 

Debaters Shine At Miami
(Continued from page 1)
examination tournament. It was also
the first time that the debaters have

ever appeared in the Invitational
Meet at Oxford.

 

 

Green Valley Motel

One Mile North on
U. S. Highway No. 11

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA
HO 3-2195

 

 

 

2. 2. ft SSS ee ee ww we
Pee ees sss eee eee

 

=v TeV TCT TTT eT TTT TTT TCC CCT TTT

Shirt Service as You Like it
Quality Cleaning and Pressing

UNIVERSITY CLEANERS
HO 3-3622

*
*“Your Campus Neighbors”

she Be Be Be BeBe Be Be Be Baie BeBe le Be Ba Be Ba Be Be Be Be Be BeBe Be Be Be Be Be Be Be Ba Be Be Be te Be te Be Be he Bo BeBe tee

ree ee
St eee ae ee ae ee ee

 

 

SPE SSS STS ST See Se TS STS eee eeeeeeeeeerererererrrrrrrrrrre

 

Hoogenboom On Maintenance Department

(Continued from page 2)

holes in the lawn, and re-erect the
hurdle gates around the library. The
final measure of their devotion is
the promptitude with which they
paint the law school chairs the first
warm day, so that they are properly
sticky well into the spring, trapping
early flies and unwary students.
We cannot, however, while we are

More...
Of Paine’s Pearls

As the year progressed, there have
been a surprisingly large number of
gimps on this campus (not the least
of which was the venerable editor of
this edition and it is this author’s
contention that they are worthless,
do not lend the air of dignity that a
university of this stature should ex-

emplify.

 

 

passing out accolades, forget those
in the co-op, whose motto and stand-
ard is “service with a smile,” and
whose courtesy is matched only by
their promptitude and cheerfulness.
In their efforts to ease the students’
path to learning, they eagerly re-
lieve him of all mundane concerns
such as time and money.

When faced with this sterling de-
votion to duty, words nearly fail us,
and we can only say, with a suspi-
cious hint of moistness in our eyes
and a catch in our throat, “Well
done, thou good and faithful ser-
vant.”

 

MYERS
HARDWARE
COMPANY

 

he Be Be Be he Be Be Be he Se Be he Me Mle le Me le le Be lo Bo Bc Bc Mn Bc Bn Be Bc Bs Be Se Be Bo Bo Be le Be le le Bo Be Se te a a ne

 

2. 2..2..3..2..%.2.2.3.2.2. 2.3.2.2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 we
CESS SSS Ses eee ee eee eee errerererererrrrre

 

ee TTT eS eee eCCCrCrrrcrcrrrcorcoroereveeovereeeee eee

We Feature

SEALTEST

Dairy Products
“To get the best get Sealtest”’

over twenty different products in addition to
delicious Sealtest ice cream

Block and Crushed Ice

Your favorite mixes—Ice Cold

x
Maple-Rock Distributors, Inc.

he he Bese he Behe he he he cBe Me he Be he the ale Be Ne he le ae Me Me he Be Be Me Me he Be Ne he he he he he he he Backache de eck teak

RO OR A A A
Bye Et EE Et PES PEt ET ES Mgt OES ME ES gt gt ME ET ee ee ee ee eee

 

 

rr ee Tee ee Te eT TTT Teer

 

 

The First National Bank

of Lexington
*
has special checking accounts

for students

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Radio Hospital
*
Radio, TV, Phonograph
Sales and Service

*

HO 3-3531

 

 

 

 

 

 

   

STUDENTS ACCOUNTS INVITED HERE
Member F. D. 1. C.

   

 

 

 

 

 

ROCKBRIDGE LAUNDRY

and
Dry Cleaners

Shirts Transparently Wrapped
for Freshness
*
AGENTS:

Fraternities, Dorms and Co-op

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

THE TAREYTON RING
MARKS THE REAL THING!

Here’s one filter cigarette that’s really different!

The difference is this: Tareyton’s Dual Filter gives you a
unique inner filter of ACTIVATED CHARCOAL, definitely proved to
make the taste of a cigarette mild and smooth. It works together with

a pure white outer filter—to balance the flavor elements in the smoke.
Tareyton delivers—and you enjoy—the best taste of the best tobaccos.

 

Tareyton delivers the flavor...

 

Pure white outer filter

 

pug FIeTER LAVOVWWON aurea enon
 

FRIDAY
Edition

 

Washington and Lee Semi-Weekly Newspaper

Che King-tum Phi

FRIDAY
Edition

 

Volume LXI

Chemistry Professor’s Home
By Fire Thursday

Leveled

     
   

ew

A Washington and Lee chemistry
professor and his wife were forced
to jump to safety from the porch
roof as a fire leveled their home
early Thursday morning.

A young, unidentified boy who
was passing the house alerted the
R.D. Whitakers of the fire—possi-
bly saving their lives—and called
the Buena Vista fire department
about 6:40 a.m. Thursday.

The Whitakers lost everything
in the house.

According to Buena Vista fire
chief Ralph Flint the house was
almost totally destroyed when his
crew arrived. F. J. Dunn, Lexing-
ton fire chief, said one of the local
trucks was dispatched to the
scene in response to a call about
9 a.m.

The house was totally destroyed
by that time, he said, but there
was danger of brush fire spreading

oo

All that romaine of Dr. Whitaker’s home is one chimney.

ssotaae

~

Weed “ eo”

from the area of the house. The
Lexington department wet down)
the area .

Dr. Whitaker’s house was in Wes-
ley Chapel, east of Lexington on the '
Old Buena Vista road just off route,
60. The two-story log structure was
remodeled just last summer.

Cause of the blaze has not been
determined according to Lexington
chief Dunn.

 

Coming Events

Sunday, March 19

4:30 p.m.—Concert. Longwood Col-
lege Choir and W&L Glee Club.
Lexington Presbyterian Church.

Monday, March 20

3:15 p.m.—Lacrosse. W&L vs. Wil-
liams College.
8:00 p.m.—Debates. W&L and the

 

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA, MARCH 17, 1961

 

enduring artist.

be responsible for his esteemed and
popular position among American
authors.

Hemingway, he said, offers no new
areas of exploration expected of
great artists, but within the frame-
work set up in his first two novels
he has become the most popular
serious author of his age.

Mr. Aldridge said Hemingway’s
The Old Man and the Sea was a

| “recollection” of the original style

found in A Farewell to Arms. In
this original style, which the lecturer
said turns on a _ basic situation,
Hemingway is at his best.

Good Minor Vision

Mr. Aldridge concluded his re-
marks by saying Hemingway has
not given a major version of the

 

 

New Zealand debating team.

ALDRIDGE

Mr. Aldridge, speaking in duPont Auditorium, said Hem-
ingway’s limited ability might well*

 

 

20th Century. But he has given a
good minor vision—perhaps a vision
which only he is capable of giving.

An author-critic, the Hollins pro-
fessor has written The Lost Genera-
tion, Critiques and Essays on Mod-
ern Fiction 1920-1951 and In Search
of Heresy. He was cofounder of
Discovery Magazine and for some
time he was the book critic of The

(Continued on page 4)

 

rensenae concent:

 

“ms

  

 

CHRISTIAN
Honor Role Student
Is Phi Eta Sigma Member

‘Shangri-La’ Is Central Theme
Of Spring Dances Says Outman

Bill Outman, PiKA junior and
president of Spring Dances, an-
nounced today that the theme of this
year’s dance set will be “Shangri-
La.”

Outman is working with Elliott
Maynard, a PiKA junior who is
in charge of decorations for next
month’s dance set.

Outman said today that the dance
set vice-presidents are “combining
in an all-out effort to make this
year’s decorations as striking and as
authentic as possible.”

The traditional dance-concert will
be staged this Spring in surround-
ings adapted from the work, Lost
Horizon, by James Hilton.

In keeping with the oriential motif
suggested by Hilton in his search for
life’s ideal, Doremus Gymnasium
will be gayly pictured as “Shangri-
La.”

 

Outman said that he plans to have
murals placed around the walls of
the dance floor, and he added that
plans call for the construction of a
Chinese Pagoda as the center of all
the murals.

A small pond with accompanying
waterfall will complete the major
decorations for the dance floor itself,

‘he said.

Outman added that the vice-presi-
dents, who were named last week,
will meet Tuesday night.

Spring Dances will be held on
April 14 and 15.

Last year the Spring Dances theme
was “Paris and the Moulin Rouge.”

President of that dance set was
Phi Delt Bill McWilliams. High-
lighting last year’s dances were the
appearances of Claude Thornhill and
Joni James.

 

Number 43

Meade Christian, Phi Gam, Receives
Phi Beta Kappa Sophomor

Seminar Speaker John Aldridge
Says Hemingway A Limited Artist

By GEORGE HONTS
Managing Editor

In the opening lecture of the 1961 Seminars in Literature
Thursday night, John W. Aldridge, professor of English at
Hollins College, declared Ernest Hemingway a limited, but

e Award

Student Has
3.0 Average

By JOHN KIRKLEY
Friday Staff Reporter

Robert Meade Christian, Jr.,
a Phi Gam sophomore and a
pre-med major from _ Rich-
mond has been awarded the
Phi Beta Kappa Sophomore

Award for 1961, it was announced
today.

The award, given by Gamma of
Virginia Chapter, goes annually to
the sophomore with the highest
scholastic average for the first three
semesters of his college career. The
The purpose of the award is to
“encourage scholastic | endeavor
among undergraduates during their
first years at Washington and Lee.”

Was Valedictorian

Christian graduated as valedic-
torian of the Thomas Jefferson High
School in Richmond. He received
a Washington Award for his fresh-
man year at W&L.

A member of the Glee Club, he
has been active in the UCA, and
played freshman tennis. He was
made a member of Phi Eta Sigma,
freshman honorary society, at the
end of his first semester.

Given the Annual Freshman
Chemistry Award, Christian received
the White Chemistry Scholarship at
the completion of his freshman year.

Has 3.0 Average

Christian has kept a perfect 3.0
average while at W&L, and is
treasurer of Phi Eta Sigma. A mem-
ber of the Assimilation Committee,
he is also a member of the English
Seminars in Literature Committee.

Last year the Phi Beta Kappa
Award was given to Joe Goldstein,
a ZBT from Kingstree, S. C.

Dr. L. J. Desha, secretary of the
local Phi Beta Kappa chapter, made
the announcement.

 

 

 

Federal

(Editor’s note: The following ar-
ticle was received by the Ring-tum
Phi a few days ago. It is an ex-
planation of what the Peace Corps
actually is, and what the program
hopes to accomplish. It is reprinted
here for the benefit of persons who
might be interested in the Peace
Corps. It is continued on page 2.)

PEACE CORPS
Washington 25, D.C.

In response to the numerous
requests for information about the
Peace Corps which have been re-
ceived by this office, we are trans-
mitting a copy of the memoran-
dum prepared by Mr. Sargent
Shriver and submitted to Presi-
dent John F. Kennedy prior to the
President’s issuance of an Execu-
tive Order establishing the Peace
Corps.

We believe that this document
will answer any of the questions
that have been asked about the
purpose and programs of the
Peace Corps. An information fold-
er which answers some of the
more detailed queries about speci-
fic operational policies will be
ready for distribution at a later
date.

Sincerely,

Edwin R. Bayley
Public Information

* *

1. What do we mean by a Peace

Corps?

The essential idea is the placement
of Americans in actual operational
work in newly developing areas of
the world. Unlike most ICA tech-
nical assistance advisors, who go as
members of an official U.S. mission to
demonstrate or advise, Peace Corps
volunteers will go to teach, or to
build, or to work in the communi-
ties to which they are sent. They
will serve local institutions, living
with the people they are helping.
Most Peace Corps volunteers will
probably be young college graduates,
but there should be no rigid age

Government’s P

limit. Younger or older workers with
skills needed abroad but without
college degrees will carry out some
important projects. The length of
service should normally be from two
to three years.

2. Is there a need for it?

The need of most newly develop-
ing nations for skilled manpower in
many critical positions is manifest.
The Colorado State University team
reports that the need for trained
Peace Corps volunteers is felt in
every country in Latin America,
Africa, and Asia visited. If the short-
ages of able personnel are not made
up from outside some development
programs will grind to a halt—or
fail to progress fast enough to satis-
fy the newly aroused and volatile
expectations of the people of these
lands. The Peace Corps can make
a significant contribution to this
problem.

While Dr. Maurice Albertson of
Colorado State University and his
colleagues report a great variety of
needs in the countries visited, the
major programs in which Peace
Corps volunteers are wanted are
these:

a. Teaching. Literacy and higher
levels of knowledge and skills are a
prerequisite to successful national
development. In most newly de-
veloping nations the shortage of
teachers is a major bottleneck. In
Nigeria an official commission has
just documented how dangerous this
bottleneck is—and how badly out-
side teachers are needed. Since in
many African and some Asian coun-
tries teaching is conducted in Eng-
lish, U.S. college graduates could
play a vital role teaching in pri-
mary or secondary schools and in
trade schools. In many other de-
veloping nations the teaching of
English is wanted. And in Latin
America the teaching of literacy in
Spanish is required—a useful field
for Spanish-speaking U.S. graduates.

b. Fighting Malaria and Working
in other Health Projects. The world-

 

another important contribution to
economic development. The UN-
sponsored campaign to eradicate ma-
laria needs a large number of work-
ers, many of whom would not need
to be college graduates.

c. Working in Agricultural Pro-
jects and Rural Development Pro-
grams. In addition to top-level tech-
nical advisors already being pro-
vided by ICA and other agencies,
skilled agricultural workers are
needed to assure the effectiveness
of demonstration programs for ani-
mal husbandry, new farm tech-
niques, improvement of seed, and ir-
rigation. Peace Corps volunteers are
needed to work alongside host coun-
try citizens in community develop-
ment programs.

d. Working on Large-Scale Con-
struction and Industrial Projects.
On most of the large dams, valley
developments, construction of new
cities, or establishment of modern
factories, the employment of skilled
operating personnel from outside has
been necessary to do a great range
of skilled and semi-skilled jobs. If
proper terms of service can be ar-
ranged, Peace Corps volunteers from
trade unions or U.S. business can
provide some of the needed help,
including on-the-job training to
local personnel.

e. Working in Government Ad-
mininistration. Many Peace Corps
volunteers will be needed in a pub-
lic administration on all levels,
including urban development.

These are some of the clear and
present needs. It will be important
for the Peace Corps to establish pro-
cedures with the host countries for
the appraisal of each project in terms
of the particular country’s priorities
of development needs. When there is
no pressing need or desire—where
local persons are trained and ready—
no Peace Corps volunteers should
be sent.

3. How would it operate?

 

wide Malaria Eradication program is

 

The Peace Corps staff must have} ularly

eace Corps Is Explained

great flexibility to experiment with
different methods of operation. Its
role, as we see it, will be to rein-
force existing private and _ public
programs of assistance and develop-
ment by filling some of the man-
power gaps which obstruct these
programs requiring Peace Corps
volunteers. The Peace Corps will be
closely related to other programs
of assistance, and its potentialities
will of course depend in part upon
what is done through other parts of
our foreign aid effort. The Peace
Corps should take its place as a
basic component of our whole over-
seas program.

a. Through grants to Peace Corps-
type programs carried out by pri-
vate agencies. This would result in
the expansion of the existing volun-
tary agency activities using dedi-
cated Americans overseas, and in the
encouragement of other private or-
ganizations to undertake such pro-
jects. Trade Unions would be urged
to participate in this program. It
is important that the Peace Corps
supplement and extend the early
pioneer efforts of the private agen-
cies rather than by-pass them or
swallow them up in a Federal pro-
gram. Under this program private
agencies would submit proposed
Peace Corps-type projects to the
Peace Corps staff. These projects
would be reviewed in the light of
Peace Corps standards and funds
would be allocated according to the
priorities determined and the total
budget available.

b. Through arrangement with col-
leges, universities, or other educa-
tional institutions. Already some 57
universities are working under con-
tract with ICA in 37 countries on
development or educational projects.
While few, if any, of these contracts
presently meet the criteria of the
Peace Corps, they demonstrate the
possibilities. Universities are capable
of carrying the responsibility of
many Peace Corps projects, partic-
in the field of education.

 

Teachers College at Columbia Uni-
versity has just recently agreed to
recruit and administer a program
of supplying some 150 English
teachers for East Africa. Larger
teaching projects might be carried
out by a group of colleges and uni-
versities in a state or area, or by
a group of schools emphasizing the
same language or area study.

Universities offer several advant-
ages; they are able to recruit on
the spot, from among their own stu-
dents, using their own knowledge of
the student as a basis for selection.
They are able to provide the train-
ing either over a four-year period
or in special training sessions after
graduation. They can provide facul-
ty as supervisors overseas. They can
develop area studies and research
programs which assist their Peace
Corps volunteers and which also
benefit from what the returning vol-
unteers have learned .

And the Peace Corps can help the
Universities by giving new purpose

| to the student during his years of

study. One University official already
reports that students are studying
Spanish more seriously in view of
the prospect of a University Peace
Corps project in Latin America.

The Peace Corps staff will need
in many cases to seek out a uni-
versity or group of universities to
undertake particular projects sug-
gested by the particular developing
nation or nations. In most cases the
Peace Corps staff will be needed in
the initial negotiations with foreign
governments.

Although there is no reason to be-
lieve that the costs of carrying out
Peace Corps projects through uni-
versity contracts will be low, the
advantages of this approach should
weigh heavily against any ineffi-
ciency in such _ decentralization.
Wherever feasible it is recommended
that Peace Corps projects be con-
ducted in this way.

c. Through programs of other U.S.
Government agencies. There is a
need for “Technical Helpers” to sup-

 

plement many existing technical and
economic assistance projects being
carried.out by existing U.S. Govern-
ment agencies. Top-level advisors
working for I.C.A., or for the U.S.
Information Service, or for other
Government agencies all generally
report the need for operational as-
sistance—for personnel at the work-
ing level who can help translate
high-level advice into action on the
line. Through a national recruit-
ment, training and placement serv-
ice the Peace Corps can supply such
Technician Helpers.

d. Through programs of the UN
and other international agencies. UN
and other international technical as-
sistance and development programs
also suffer the same gap between
the advice and its implementation.

e. Through directly administered
Peace Corps programs with host
countries. There will be some pro-
jects of a size or complexity or
novelty or urgency which cannot
be carried out, or carried out well,
through any of the above channels.
If such projects are proposed by host
countries and fit the development
needs of those countries and the
overall foreign aid purposes of the
United States, they can be under-
taken through Peace Corps recruit-
ment, training, and direct adminis-
tration.

4. How would the Peace Corps vol-
unteers be selected?

For projects administered directly
by the Peace Corps there will have
to be a general nation-wide re-
cruitment program. Although pri-
vate agencies and universities will
be able to recruit directly and sep-
arately for their respective pro-
jects, they, too, may often wish to
utilize the central recruitment serv-
ice. And the central service, in turn,
will probably want to have in its
files the results of the separate re-
cruitment by private agencies and
universities.

Therefore, one important function

(Continued on page 2)
Page 2

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

She Ring-tum Phi
Next Steps In Development Urged

Two of the most obvious problems that
presently confront the Washington and Lee
community are probably (1) the need of an
adequate auditorium in which to hold assem-
blies as well as dramatic productions, and (2)
the need of additional parking facilities.

We are all well aware that the Adminis-
tration has a number of pressing issues which
must be dealt with, new buildings for science
and journalism, for instance. We are certainly
the first to understand that issues must be
dealt with in order of their priority. To re-
iterate a stand which has been our general
policy throughout the year, we hail the “New
Era,” and we appreciate the progress which
has been realized by the Administration over
the last few years.

In an editorial written a few weeks ago,
the Administration was praised for its an-
nouncement that work was soon to begin
on three overdue facilities—a new science
building, a remodelled Reid Hall, and a new
dormitory for freshmen.

We feel, however, that we are obligated
to make the following suggestions concern-
ing the “next steps” that will be taken in
the realization of W&L’s Development pro-
gram.

Not only is Lee Chapel far too small to
serve as a place in which to hold university
assemblies, but the matter of the “physical
soundness” of the building is also in question.
This last statement was made apparent dur-
ing this year’s International Relations Week,
when Norman Thomas spoke to an overflow
crowd in the chapel. We feel that the ex-
cellent speech was marred, however, by the
assembly chairman’s having to request stu-
dents not to sit near the front of the
balcony, for fear that the structure in ques-
tion might tumble at a moment’s notice.

Not only is an auditorium greatly needed
for University assemblies, but the present fa-
cilities available for dramatic productions cer-
tainly leave much to be desired.

The Troub Theatre, although it has re-
cently been renovated is still in need of many
additions which would bring the physical char-
acter of the building up to a level with the
excellent productions being presented by the
various student dramatic organizations.

The present Doremus Gymnasium, which
has the rather dubious distinction of serving as

 

a part-time gym-auditorium should also be
considered. The gymnastic facilities offered
are indeed lacking and as far as its use as an
auditorium is concerned, the present structure
lacks both good appearance and acoustics.

We therefore suggest that the next build-
ing to go up on the W&L campus be an audi-
torium—one which could be used for assem-
blies, concerts, speeches, and for dramatic
productions.

NEW PARKING FACILITIES URGED

Another area that we see as being “‘lack-
ing” at the present time is in the parking fa-
cilities available for both student and facul-
ty use.

The number of student owned automobiles,
from all indications, seems to be increasing
every year, but the amount of parking space
available seems to be, if anything, on the gen-
eral decline.

In 1957, former Washington and Lee
President Francis P. Gaines announced in his
Ten Year University Development Program
that expanded parking areas were eventually
to be constructed.

As was pointed out in the Nov. 22, 1957
issue of the Ring-tum Phi, this plan called for
added parking space providing for 1,430
cars.

The areas for expanded parking which were
suggested were (1) the upper athletic field
near Liberty Hall (2) the area behind the
gym (3) the corner of Washington and Jef-
ferson Streets (the area across from the Uni-
versity Cleaners’ building). and (4) the area
behind the science building where the present
Biology Annex is located.

If the present Administration does not
feel that the above named areas would be
suited for use for additional parking, we would
further suggest that perhaps the enclosed
green in front of the Doremus Gymnasium
could be removed. This spot, to our thinking,
serves no specific purpose, and the area gained
would perhaps give a sizeable increase to the
space now alloted for parking.

Both these facilities, if built, would cer-
tainly give the student body a further reassur-
ing note that the “New Era’s” ideals are here
to stay.

—R. R. G.

 

Letters To The Editor

Readers’ Opinions Vary On Goldwater

Editor, Ring-tum Phi
Dear Sirs:

I was impressed by Mr. Ketcham’s
article of March 3 (Many of Gold-
water’s Ideas Need Revision). He
has, however, in the student’s pas-
sionate search for Truth, left un-
listed some points that might be of
interest to his faithful readers.

1). Sufficient money for compe-
tent schools can and is being raised
by individual states, not only by
property, but by sales taxes. (Fi-
nancing the Public Schools, by
Roger Freeman, Institute for Social
Science Research, Washington, D.C.).

2). The U.S. Office of Education, a
source of Mr. Ketcham’s figures, is
not exactly dispassionate on the
subject of Federal Aid to Education.
Its leaders are recognized Dewey-
ites (and I don’t mean Thomas) who
are admittedly working toward a
centralized system of formal edu-
cation which would eventually re-
place such mind builders as Latin,
Greek and Math with “Personality
Adjustment,” “Society and Marri-
age,” etc. Naturally, the question of
control has been left unmentioned in
the Kennedy Plan.

3). Only 237 of 40,000 plus school
districts have demonstrated a need
for help in school construction, no
small sacrifice for the destruction of
the Constitutional system of divi-
sion of powers.

4), States can hardly be expected
to accelerate school construction and
raise teachers’ salaries when Big
Brother in Washington is tempting
them with a seemingly painless pan-
acea.

5).Sen. Goldwater is correct when
he says “there is no demonstrable
need” for social security financed
medical care. Those over 65 who are
“starving” have been provided for
under the Kerr-Mills bill passed last
fall.

6). If we we to follow Sen. Gold-
water and not recognize Russia,
what would most likely follow would
be respect from neutral nations. (But
then where would the Government

 

find jobs for all those people cur-
rently trying to find out which na-
tions “like” us and which don’t).

Finally, in reference to your con-
cluding paragraph, what would in-
finitely be sadder and more appal-
ling would be college students look-
ing toward the Government for sup-
port and guidance throughout their
entire lives in return for continued
sustenance.

That my friend, not Russia or Red
China, is where the basic danger
lies.

Sincerely,

Sidney W. Whipple

Class of 1958

The Eastern Underwriter
New York 30, New York

Dear Sirs:

I wish to take exception to a
statement appearing in your edi-
torial, dated March 3, 1961, entitled
“In the ‘Liberal Spirit’...Senator
Barry Goldwater.” The statement is
... “there is no precedent in the
past for the United States to take
the offensive and provoke warfare,
yet this is what the senator pro-
poses to do.”

I suggest that the writer look
up a little book entitled “The War
Myth in United States History” by
C. H. Hamlin of Atlantic Christian
College, published by the Vanguard
Press of New York (1927). I could
quote many passages from this book
to substantiate the fact that the
United States did take the offensive
and provoke warfare. I have the
definite impression he would not
make the above statement if he had
sufficient facts.

Sincerely,
Edward Palmer, M.D.
Berwyn, Iil.

March 2, 1961

Dear Mr. Simpson:

Sitting here in The Flat Hat of-
fice at William and Mary I came
across the Ring-tum Phi for Feb-
ruary 24, and read with a good deal

 

of interest your editorial entitled
“Conscience Of A Liberal”—an at-
tempt, I suppose, to answer Mr.
Goldwater and his “Conscience of
A Conservative.” I think, however,
that to some extent you have missed
most of the point.

The spirit of liberalism is liberty,
I agree, but this holds true only
in its classical sense, the sense in
which Locke believed it and Jeffer-
son wrote it. What is called “liberal-
ism” today is really just another
manifestation of statism, something
we have seen many times in the
history of the world. It is not “liber-
al” to say, as our “liberals” say so
often, that it is the function of the
government to do what must be
done. This, if we were to really try
to find its base, is European conser-
vatism—reverence for authority—
going back to feudalism. Conserva-
tism today in 20th century America
is trying to conserve the liberal
values which came out of our revo-
lution. There can be, therefore, noth-
ing very static about a conservatism
whose base is revolutionary—the
American Revolution.

What you are really talking about,
I think, is a conservative vs. liberal
spirit in individuals, and here I
agree that innovation and whole-
some change is good. But we don’t
want to change the basic values we
have learned from history, what-
ever we must do is reapply them to
modern situations, and here is the
difference between a _ conservative
and a reactionary.

Conformity and complacency ex-
ist more in our “liberals” who are
trying to face 1961 with a depression
psychology than with conservatives.
And when you say that conservatives
are making Goldwater a prophet and
hero I think you are wrong, except
of course in many individual cases.
Conservatism is based on a respect
for rule by law and not men, and
such a philosophy is not very adapt-
able to hero worship. This is for the
“liberals”—note FDR and the cur-
rent job being done on Kennedy.

(Continued on page 4)

   

 

 

————Eeaeeeaee eee eee eee eee Tere VTC TTT ee eee’

Peace Corps Is Explained
By Federal Government

(Continued from page 1)

of the Peace Corps staff will be to
set up and maintain a general re-
cruitment and_ selection process,
which can build up a pool of ap-
plicants and serve as a central place-
ment center for volunteers for world
development.

As a practical matter the Peace
Corps will need a large pool of ap-
plicants, if the best available talent
is to be found. Widespread compe-
tition for Peace Corps positions with
very careful screening is essential if
people with the best chance of suc-
cess are to be sent abroad.

5. How would the volunteers be
trained?

Once the Peace Corps is a going
concern, training for it should be
integrated so far as possible within
four year college curriculum of stu-
dents interested in going overseas
after graduation. The Peace Corps
should set standards such as inten-
sive language study and completion
of courses on the history, econom-
ies, politics, and culture of the area
to which the student would like
to be sent—as well as sufficient
study of American history and so-
ciety to make him a well-informed
representative of this country
abroad.

The Peace Corps must organize
such training programs, using col-
lege university facilities wherever
feasible. The length of the programs
would vary from six weeks to per-
haps even six months. There will be
great emphasis on language instruc-
tion and preparation for the particu-
lar work to be assigned such as
teaching. There will also be briefing
on practical problems of health and
living in the country assigned.

Whenever possible foreign students
and teachers in this country will be
involved in the training program.

6. What would be the terms of serv-
ice?

The usual length of service should
probably be two years, with perhaps
three year terms in some cases.
Great flexibility must be permitted
to accommodate projects with dif-
fering difficulties and needs.

From the training period through-
out his term of service, the Peace
Corps volunteer would be subject
to immediate separation from the
service and return home.

While there should be no general
age limit or restriction to one sex,
there will be particular projects
requiring special maturity and some
open only to men or to women. The
Peace Corps should not pay the
expenses of a wife or family unless,
the wife is also accepted for full-
time Peace Corps work.

Peace Corps volunteers obviously
should not be paid what they might
earn in comparable activities in the
United States. Nor would it be pos-
sible in many cases for them to live
in health or any effectiveness on
what their counterparts abroad are
paid. The guiding principle indeed
should not be anything like com-
pensation for individual services.

Rather the principle should be
akin to that of the allowance. Peace
Corps volunteers should be given
just enough to provide a minimum
decent standard of living. Wherever
possible they should live with their
host country counterparts. It prob-
ably will be necessary for the Corps
to have authority to pay medical ex-

 

penses of volunteers.

For readjustment to the U.S., vol-
unteers should be given some sepa-
ration allowance at the end of their
overseas service, based on the length
of time served.

7. In what part of the government
should the Peace Corps be estab-
lished?

The idea of a Peace Corps has
captured the imagination of a great
many people. The Peace Corps,
therefore, offers an opportunity to
add a new dimension to our ap-
proach to the world—an opportunity
for the American people to think
anew and start afresh in their par-
ticipation in world development.

Pending the reorganizaztion of our
foreign aid structure and program,
the Peace Corps should be estab-
lished as an agency in the Depart-
ment of State. Meanwhile, the Peace
Corps could be physically located
in the ICA’s facilities and depend on
the State Department and ICA for
administrative support and, when
needed, program assistance.

8. How and when should the Peace
Corps be launched?

The Peace Corps can either begin
in very low gear, with only prepara-
tory work undertaken between now
and when Congress finally appropri-
ates special funds for it—or it can
be launched now and in earnest by
executive action, with sufficient
funds and made available from ex-
isting Mutual Security appropria-
tions to permit a number of sub-
stantial projects to start this sum-
mer.

The Peace Corps should be
launched soon so that the opportuni-
ty to recruit the most qualified peo-
ple from this year’s graduating
classes will not be lost.

If launched in a careful but de-
termined way within the next few
weeks, the Peace Corps could have
several hundred persons in train-
ing this summer for placement next
Fall.

9. What would the first projects be?

In the first year there should
probably be considerable emphasis
on teaching projects. The need here
is most clearly felt and our capacity
to recruit and train qualified vol-
unteers in a short period of time
is greatest.

There would, however, be a varie-
ty of other skills—medical, agricul-
tural, engineering—which would be
called for in the first year through
private agency programs.

The first year’s projects should
also be spread through several
countries in Latin America, Africa
and Asia.

10 How will the Peace Corps be
received abroad?

Although the need for outside
trained manpower exists in every
newly developing nation, the readi-
ness to receive such manpower, or
to receive it from the United States,
will vary from country to country.
A certain skepticism about the com-
ing of Americans is to be expected
in many quarters. Unfriendly politi-
cal groups will no doubt do every-
thing in their power to promote ac-
tive hostility. But there are indica-
tions that many developing nations
will welcome Peace Corps volun-
teers.

It is important, however, that the
Peace Corps be advanced not as an

 

 

arm of the Cold War but as a con-
tribution to the world community.
In presenting it to other govern-
ments and to the United Nations,
we could propose that every na-
tion consider the formation of its
own peace corps and that the Unit-
ed Nations sponsor the idea and
form an international coordinating
committee. We should hope that
peace corps projects will be truly
international and that our citizens
will find themselves working along-
side citizens of the host country and
also volunteers from other lands.

The Peace Corps is not a diplo-
matic or propaganda venture but
genuine experiment in international
partnership. Our aim must be to
learn as much as we teach. The
Peace Corps offers an opportunity
to bring home to the United States
the problems of the world as well
as an opportunity to meet urgent
host country needs for trained man-
power.

11. How will it be financed?

The already appropriated funds
within the discretion of the Presi-
dent and Secretary of State under
the Mutual Security Act are the only
immediately available source of fi-
nancing this summer’s pilot pro-
grams of the Peace Corps. If it
is decided to make a small shift
which may be required from military
aid or special assistance funds, in
order to carry out the purposes of
the Mutual Security Act through
this new peaceful program, this will
be a hopeful sign to the world. Con-
gress should then be asked to give
the Peace Corps a firm legislative
foundation for the next fiscal year.

Specifically, Congress should con-
sider authorizing the Peace Corps
to receive contributions from Amer-
ican businesses, unions, civic organ-
izations and the public at large.

The extent to which participating
bodies such as U.S. voluntary agen-
cies, universities, international or-
ganizations, and the host country or
institutions in the host country can
and should share the costs of the
Peace Corps program must be fully
explored.

12. Is it worth the cost and the
risks?

No matter how well conceived
and efficiently run, there probably
will be failures. These could be
costly and have a serious effect
both at home and abroad.

But as the popular response sug-
gests, the potentiality of the Peace
Corps is very great. It can contribute
to the development of critical coun-
tries and regions. It can also con-
tribute to more intelligent American
participation in the world.

With the colleges and universities
carrying a large part of the program,
and with students looking toward
Peace Corps Service, there will be
an impact on educational curricu-
lum and student seriousness. This is
meeting the world’s need since what
the world most needs from this
country is a better understanding of
the world.

The Peace Corps thus can add
a new dimension to America’s world
policy—one for which people here
and abroad have long been waiting.
As you said in your State of the
Union message, “The problems...
are towering and unprecedented—
and the response must be towering
and unprecedented as well.”

 

RES IPSA LOQUITUR

 

‘Protest’ Protester Is Protested
From Footsteps To Material

By THORNS CRAVEN

Friday Columnist

Since the Tuesday Edition of this
admirable bi-weekly journal saw
fit last Tuesday to
devote almost
one-fourth of the
issue to various
comments on
Grayfred Gray,
ranging from the
statement that
he supported
Woodrow Wilson
in 1912 (or was it
19167), to shifting
his colorful name
from drab Gray to
a more neutral Brown, it seems only
right that I should keep a good thing
going. But a problem arises when I
try to decide which means to use
to discuss this campus phenomenon,
and the phenomena which have been
produced as by-products. I’ve had
to rule out fables and fairy tales;
the interview has been done; and

Craven

 

reiteration of the good points and
the bad would just be repetition
(or reiteration, take your choice).
So I’ve decided that the best way
to treat PROTEST and its author-
publisher-printer-financer-distribu-
tor-paper boy, is to PROTEST.

Before I get started with that
though, let me make it clear that
I'm not PROTESTING PROTEST.
Nor am I PROTESTING because
PROTEST is being PROTESTED.
Now that that’s clear I’ll go on and
PROTEST.

First of all I want to lash out
at Gray the man. This will be per-
sonal, so all readers not named
Grayfred Gray may skip to the
next paragraph. However, you may
read it if you want to, unless Gray-
fred Gray PROTESTS. Grayfred,
for you: I PROTEST your continual
walking around your apartment
which is situated strategically above
the Lyric theatre. I have noticed
from time to time that you persist
in doing exercises during the two

 

o'clock flick. This is a violation of
man’s inalienable right—freedom
from fear that the roof might fall
in—and as such I PROTEST. This
might also be an honor violation,
so you'd better watch out. I admit
this is stretching my PROTEST a bit,
but it is conceivable that this could
be interpreted as the “best opinion”
of the student body, as Ed Webster
calls it. And remember that this
“best opinion” comes from men
named to the E.C. because “they
are men of above-average intelli-
gence and understanding,” dutifully
chosen by their clique, and elected
by the straight party ticket. That’s
my personal PROTEST, Gray, from

me to you. Please stay still from two
to four.

Now for you conscientious readers
who skipped the last paragraph for
fear that you might have been
cheating or something, here’s a gen-
eral PROTEST that everyone might
be interested in. I PROTEST the sor-

(Continued on page 4)

 
THE RING-TUM PHI

Page 3

 

HICKEY, SHANK, KELL TAKE TWO FIRSTS

 

W&L Trackmen Blast High Point, 104-36

Washington and Lee’s track team
roared off to a rocket start in its
opening track meet Thursday as it
blasted High Point College, 104-36.

The win was the ninth straight
dual meet victory for the Generals

over a two-year span. Last year they
compiled an 8-0 record.

The meet, which had been fig-
ured to go down to the wire,
wasn’t close after the sixth event
as W&L established a 36-18 lead.

 

Last year the Generals edged High
Point, 74-62, with a first in the
last event—the mile relay.

Captain Jim Hickey, Mike Shank,
and freshman Robin Kell paced the
Generals’ win with two firsts each.
Hickey came home first in the 100
and 220-yard dashes. His 100 time
of 0:9.8 tied the school record, but
it will not go into the book because
of a strong wind behind him. In the

| 220 Hickey turned in a good 0:23.0.

Shank, W&L’s top distance runner,
sped to wins in the mile and two
mile. In the mile he turned in a
4:49.5 performance, which was only
six seconds off his best time of last
year. The speedy sophomore led a
W&L sweep in the two-mile with a
10:48.2 time.

Kell, a freshman, tied for first
in the high jump with a leap of
5’ 8” and captured first in the hop,
step, and jump with a 40’ 9 1/2”
effort.

Washington and Lee swept three
events—the pole vault, the shot
put, and the two-mile run. Jack
Kowalski paced the shot sweep with

™ a toss of 40’ 9”. He was followed

by John Lee and George Cruger.
The day’s best effort was by Dave
Munroe, an unofficial entry, who
put the shot 42’ 3 1/2”.

Ed Myers, Jim Parker, and Spence
McEvoy finished one, two, three
in the pole vault. Meyers cleared

10’ 6” while Parker and McEvoy | a first in the 440 with a 0:53.4. Essex,

each cleared 10’.

Scoring behind Shank in the
two-mile were Stoney Duffey and
Ed Garretson, two cross-country
men.

Skip Essex, one of the team’s
most promising freshmen, lunged to

remembering a very close defeat at
VMI in winter track, pulled the
same trick on High Point’s Jack
Benge. Benge held the lead in the
race until Essex and he neared the
tape. With a last burst of speed
Essex lunged for the tape and edged
the High Point runner by an inch.

Other first place winners for W&L
were Ken Kowalski in the javelin
(166’ 1”), Preston Lancaster in the
120-yard high hurdles (0:17.0); John
Pearson in the 220-yard low hurdles
(0:27.7); Tom Edwards in the broad
jump (20’ 8”), and Hickey, Essex,
Fox Urquhart and Norm Young-
blood in the mile relay (3:52.9).

 

 

 

 

eee errr

Editor
The Ring-tum Phi

Dear Sir:

Regarding Mr. Frank Parson’s letter in
the Tuesday edition of the Ring-tum Phi,
the PiKA’s would be happy to meet the facul-
ty in a post-season handball game, and
would like to take this opportunity to polite-
ly invite the Faculty to play the PiKA’s in
football. We feel that the complaint of intra-
mural discrimination against the Faculty is
just. It certainly isn’t fair to ban a team from
competition simply because it can beat you.
We therefore hope that in the future the
Faculty will be permitted to participate in all

Oe ee ee ee eee eee ee ee

PiKA’s Glad To Meet Faculty Handball Team;
Want Football Game With Parsons At Tackle

 

i i i a a

intramural sports. Futhermore, there are un-
doubtedly many great athletes on the Hill,
and it would benefit the students to be able
to see them in action.

The PiKA’s are aware of the invincibility
of the challengers’ handball team, and were
awed by the statistics quoted by Mr. Parsons.
However, we are willing to sacrifice ourselves
for the sake of the principle involved.

In football we may fare a little better
although the Faculty is certain to field a
fierce team. We hope that Mr. Parsons him-
self will be able to play, preferably at tackle.

Modestly yours,
Jack Atwell

 

eT Sai’ Be

Jim Hickey Wins 168, 230 hasan Yih a
McWilliams, Valentiner
Return To Top Net Berths

The Washington and Lee tennis team opens a 13-match
schedule Wednesday, April 5, against Colgate here.

 

 

 

OPEN WITH MARYLAND THURSDAY

 

The first English lacrosse team
ever to play in America meets
Washington and Lee University’s
stickmen here March 24, in the open-
ing contest of a seven-game schedule
for the touring British.

The English team, composed of
players from Oxford and Cambridge
Universities, will meet other top
American collegiate teams including
Virginia, Johns Hopkins, Army,
Holy Cross, Harvard, and Yale.

Washington and Lee was a logi-
cal choice for the opening game,
said General Coach Bob McHenry,
since the Lexington school’s stick-
men, along with the Virginia Ca-
valiers, have established interna-
tional reputations.

English Lacrosse Comes To America,
Oxford-Cambridge Team Here Friday

In 1956, a Washington and Lee| 1959, a combined team of W&L and
team toured England, compiled an/ Virginia players toured Australia and
8-1 record which included a 14-3} came away with an 8-3 mark. Mc-
over Oxford-Cambridge. Then in! Henry was a player on the English

Phi Psis Edge Phi Gams, 96-85,
For Intramural Wrestling Title

This year’s Intramural Wrestling Champions are the Phi
Psis, who captured the title behind three, first-place efforts in

individual competition.
As a result of the elimination held*®

 

 

 

on the mat in Doremus Gymnasium,
the Sigma Nus and the Phi Gams
tied for second place with 85 points
apiece, while SPE and Kappa Sig

 

After two weeks of practice, the®
squad is beginning to round into
shape. Coach Bill Washburn so
far has been impressed with PiKA
senior Jerry Wilborn, freshman John
Baker, and several of the players
from last year’s freshman team.

The tennis team plays a tough
schedule against such big teams as
Colgate, Duke, and Virginia, but
Coach Washburn thinks that the
team can improve on its 1960 rec-
ord of 9-3.

Returning to the number one and
two net positions are Captain Bill
McWilliams and Clark Valentiner,
respectively.

Wilborn, playing with what Coach
Washburn terms “mid-season form”
in early practices, should secure
a place in the starting six.

Several players from last year’s
freshman team are trying to move
into varsity berths this year. Of
these John Mills, Andy Adelson,
Hugh Trout, Bill Smith, and Dick
Albert have shown the most prom-
ise so far.

In addition to Baker, freshmen
Jim Mell and Jud Reis have been
working with the varsity and will be
looking for positions when challenge
matches start next week.

The squad will be cut to twelve
players before spring vacation. Ten
men will travel for the six away
games. There will not be a fresh-
man team this year.

Coach Washburn and Captain Mc-

(Continued on page 4)

 

BROWN’S
CLEANING
WORKS

We Call for and Deliver

24 Hour Service
Student agents in the
dormitory and fraternities
HO 3-2013 14 Randolph St.

 

 

 

 

Freshmen May Give Baseball Good Bench;
‘Pretzel-Bender’ Gamber Bolsters Mound Staff

Freshmen are expected to pro-
vide much of the bench strength for
this year’s varsity baseball squad, ac-
cording to head coach Joe Lyles.
One freshman, Howard Martin, is
expected to start at first base this
year.

Other freshmen of whom the coach
thinks highly are catcher-third base-
man Ed Burdell, shortstop Barry
Greene, centerfielder Pete Candler,
utility infielder Lou Flanagan, and
catcher Stan Leydig. Flanagan and
Martin, the coach says, seem right
now to be the best hitters of the
group.

Freshmen will make up the ma-
jority of the pitching staff. Left-
hander Brice Gamber is expected
to be in the starting rotation with
upperclassmen Roy Carpenter and
Phil Sharp.

Southpaws Ed Norton and Bill
Marion, the coach says, “need help
on their balance when they throw,
and need work on the mechanics.
They'll get plenty.”

 

ake oe oe fe ofo oe fe ooo a ae fe feof ne fe of ae of oe oe oe

Baker
Ford Sales

@

4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
;
BETTER DEALS ;
4
4
4
rf
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
“4

CLEARANCE
of lot for 1961 Models

NEW AND
USED CARS

Highway 60 East

 

.
»
4
.
%
4
.
4
.
.
.
a
*
7
¥
4
5
.
,
5
»
.
.
.
.
.
le
4
5
'
§
.
.
4
ke
.

SEEPS EEE PE EEE ESE HEED

Righthander Penn Way has a
good motion, according to the coach,
and should see a good deal of ac-
tion as soon as he works himself
into shape.

The coach feels that control is the
main thing these boys need work on.
“With games so close together,” he
says, “these boys will of necessity
see a good deal of action. I'll need
to start them, and if the regulars
don’t have it when they pitch these
fellows will do a good deal of relief
work.

“Burdell and Leydig seem to me
to have good possibilities, and Bar-
ry Greene, though he lacks height
and has some mistakes to work out,
is a keen student of the game, and

 

’ Dodge and Dodge Dart

Phone HObart 3-3146

: and Lancer °
: America’s First Fine :
* ECONOMY CAR :
; * :
: Rockbridge Motor Co. :
° INC. °

 

 

Traditional
W&L BLAZER
With University Crest
and Buttons

The

COLLEGE TOWN

Shop

Student Charge Accounts
Welcomed

 

 

 

 

rounded out the top five places.

In the individual matches, Wayne
Brawshaw defeated Stu Yoffe (ZBT)
in the 191 lb. division, Pete Alford

tour and a player-coach on the
Aussie venture.

McHenry admits he has no idea
how the Generals will fare against
the English team this time. The
game will be played according to
American rules, which should help
W&L more than the visitors, but
the Generals will have faced rugged
Maryland only the day before.

Generally speaking, lacrosse pros-
pects at Washington and Lee are at
the lowest ebb in years. Seldom im-
pressive in the won-lost columns,
the Generals nevertheless have often
ranked in the top 10 among USS.
colleges on the basis of their tough
schedule and general excellence of
play. McHenry hopes the current
dip is only temporary.

out-pointed Mickey Phillips (SPE)
for the 130 lb. crown, and Tommy
Clements mangled Hugh Trout (Phi
Gam) for the 167 lb. championship,
as the Phi Psis carried away three
individual championships.

The Sigma Nus, who tied the
Phi Gams for second place, cap-
(Continued on page 4)

Meebo oho ohe oferbe re ode obo ale ofe ole heehee rhe nde oho fe rf ofeofeseote

(Continued on page 4)

 

 

TETLOW
TV Service

is always hustling. Candler seems
to have good ability, though there is
some question as to his hitting.”

 

The baseball team opens a 23-

 

 

 

 

game schedule here Friday, March *

24, against Dartmouth College, the ; NEW TOWN INN :

defending Ivy League champions. e z

The Dartmouth club will have an $ Short Orders—Lunches 221 S. Main HO 3-2841
advantage over W&L since they .

open their season tomorrow and : Catering to Students :

play nine before Friday. PoLOAEAoooEoereensooaee

 

 

 

   
   

STRIPED OXFORD

.. the British look in shirtings

‘The eminent good looks of Arrow’s British
striped oxford adds much to a man’s wardrobe.
The authentic roll of the classic button-down
is perfectly interpreted in the University
Fashion B.D. Offered in stripings of

muted masculine tones as well as
white and solid colors in both
long and short sleeves.

$5.00

om

4=ARROW=

2 From the “Cum Laude Collection”

 

 
Page 4

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

Army Announces Selections

For Graduating ROTC Men

Within the past few days the
W&L ROTC Department has re-
ceived the complete list of assign-
ments for seniors enrolled in the
Advance Course. Formerly only the
branch assignments for those peo-
ple either requesting or receiving
two year tours of active duty or
requesting delays had been officially
reported.

Captain Andreas J. Moller, the
senior ROTC instructor, reported
that 75.5 per cent of the cadets re-
ceived their first choice of branch
assignments, and 93.8 per cent re-
ceived the tour of duty length which
they preferred. Overall, 71.4 per cent
of the ROTC seniors received both
their first choice of branch and the
desired length of service.

Comparing the classes of ’60 and
61, this year’s class did much better.
Last year only 588 per cent of the

with 85.6 per cent this year. For
the two year men, of the ones which
asked for two years, 92.8 per cent
received their preference last year,
while all of this year’s seniors who
requested two years got that tour
of duty.

Seventeen members of this year’s
class requested and received delays
for further education in graduate
school or law school, a perfect 100
per cent.

Of the seven Distinguished Mili-
tary Science Students, who are elig-
ible for application for Regular
Army Commissions, only one has
applied. He is Walter Shugart, who
is temporarily assigned to two year’s
active duty in his first choice branch,
Armor.

In the box below is a list of
cadets whose orders had not been

 

seniors got their first choice of

received by the ROTC Department

 

Name Tour
Harry Ballance 6 months
Charles Bowie 6 months
Clayton Bryan 6 months
John Farmer 6 months
Al Folcher 6 months
Roger Holden 6 months
Bob Holley 6 months
Dick Hoover 6 months
Hardie Karrh 6 months
Ed Ladd 6 months
Elwin Law 6 months
John Merchant 6 months
Pat Needham 6 months
Robert Park 6 months
Dick Ranc 6 months
Marshall Timberlake 6 months
Frank Wolfe 6 months

*Indicates first choice of branch.

Branch

Military Police*
Infantry

Artillery

Army Intelligence*
Transportation*
Infantry

Signal Corps*
Infantry

Army Intelligence*
Transportation Corps*
Infantry

Armor*

Artillery*
Transportation Corps“
Transportation Corps”
Army Intelligence*
Artillery*

 

branch, while of those requesting six
months active duty, only 58.8 per
cent were successful, as compared

when the first story was reported
in the Feb. 24 issue of the Ring-
tum Phi.

 

Jaycees Sports Show April 7-8

Miss Virginia of 1961 and a 20-
girl Modern Dance group from
Sweet Briar will be among the
featured attractions at a Youth Fit-
ness and Sports Show April 7-8 in
the VMI fieldhouse.

The show, which will also feature
a famed personality from the world
of sports, is being sponsored by the
Lexington Jaycees.

The modern dance group and
Miss Virginia will appear on Fri-
day night. The dancers from Sweet
Briar College will be under the di-
rection of Miss Tish McCarty. Miss
Virginia is Cathy Birch of Staunton.

Artie Levin and Co., a physical
fitness group which appears on a
Roanoke television station, will ap-
pear both Friday and Saturday.

On Saturday a leading sports per-
sonality, to be announced next week,
and Roger Webb & Co., described
as a “well-received gymnastic team,
will be in the spotlight.

 

 

STATE

LEXINGTON, VA
| _MOBART 3-3424 |

 

 

ONE WEEK
Starting Friday

WHLUAR
wm OLDEN
THE WORLD OF

Starks

SUZi

E WONG
RANCY

      

 

 

 

Plans are also being made to
arrange three amateur bouts by
fighters of the Police Athletic Lea-
gue of Roanoke.

Also being planned is a Friday
night fashion show, according to
Dr. R. N. Greenway and Don Huff-
man, two of the Jaycees arranging
the show.

 

Wednesday, March 22

Oxford-Cambridge Team

In Lacrosse Meet Here
(Continued from page 3)

Seven lettermen returned from
last year’s squad, which posted
a 2-6-1 record, and only two
freshmen with previous lacrosse
experience reported for practice
this year.

Heading the returning lettermen
are defenseman John Dinkle, mid-
fielder Hunter Tracht, and attacker
Roy Gordon. Also back are mid-
fielder Terry Fohs, a football Little
All-American; and defensemen Bill
Wheeler, Danny Reed, and Bart
Mitchell.

Others who should see much ac-
tion include attackers Roy Miller,
Les Peard, and Jim Powers and mid-
fielders Randy Wootton, Charley
Gummey, Steve Suttle, and Bill
Spencer-Strong.

There are only 24 players on the
roster this year, but McHenry thinks
the Generals can improve their rec-
ord.

“A small squad is always a draw-
back, but it’s all right when you
have the right type of boys. And I
think we do,” McHenry said.
McHenry is also looking forward
to winning his first home lacrosse
game in his three-year span as
W&L’s coach. He thinks his best
chance will come against either
Loyola or Colgate.

The Generals, who are considered
among the nation’s top 20 lacrosse
teams, play perennial powerhouses
Maryland, Virginia, Johns Hopkins,
and Baltimore University this year.

 

English Seminars Open

(Continued from page 1)
Nation magazine. Educated at the
University of California, Prof.
Aldridge is devoted, as he says, to
“the ideal of creative independence
and free critical dissent which has
come down to us in the central tra-
dition of American thought and let-
ters.”

First of Three

Mr. Aldridge is the first of three
Seminars in Literature speakers
scheduled for this semester. Norris
Houghton, professor of drama at
Vassar College, will speak on April

 

LM Wrestling

tured two individual weightclass
crowns in final competition as
Dave Tharp squeeked by Conway
Shield (PiKA) for the heavyweight
title, and Bill Humphreys backed
into the 137 Ib. class championship
as a result by Jack Klee (Phi Psi).

The second-place Phi Gams’ Doug
McDowell defeated Dave Streetman
(Sigma Nu) in the 157 lb. division
for their sole individual champion-

ship.

Lew Jones pinned Joe Couch (Pi
Phi) in the opening match of the
evening to account for the fifth-
place Kappa Sigs’ lone champion-
ship. His time was 45 seconds of
the second period.

The fourth place SPE’s George
Peters captured the coveted crown
in the 147 Ib. weightclass as he
pinned Tom Beck (DU) in 1:04
of the final period of their con-
test.

The last of the individual winners
was the Delt’s Charlie Begg as he
won a forfeit decision over Randy
Wootton (Phi Delt) in the 177 lb.
weight division.

 

The Ring-tum Phi

Friday Edition

The Ring-tum Phi is published Tues-
day and Friday during the college year.
It is printed by the Journalism Labor-
atory Press, Washington and Lee Uni-
versity. The mailing address is Box
899, Lexington, Va.,.

Entered as second class matter Sep-
tember 20, 1946 at the Post Office, Lex-
ington, Va., under the. act of March

National Advertising Representative:
The National Advertisers Service, Inc.,
420 Madison Ave., New York, N.Y.
Editor-in-Chief...........0+ Nathan Simpson
Business Managet........... Huntley Biggs

Editorial Board

Managing Editor................ George Honts
Assistant Managing — iaebieanisisesesaen

 
 
 
 

ROWE BIRO as sc csssssssssscteresainensinsons Andy Nea
Sports Editor John Allgood
Copy Editor... ‘Tom Jordan
Assistant Copy Editor. .Dick Heard
Photography Editor........... x .. Bill Bowen

 

 

Hamric and Sheridan
JEWELERS
Watch and Jewelry Repair
Hand Engraving and Class Rings

Top

 

 

 

 

Prescriptions Filled

25. Frank O’Hara, an American poet, HO 3-2022
will appear at some future date. :
TOLLEY’S PHARMACY |}]| THE DUTCH INN

 

For Reservation Call

 

 

 

 

 

   

Filmed in Japan in VACHINIR ARIA
TECHNICOLOR® presented by WARNER BROS
CO-STARRING
PATRICIA OWENS: RED BUTTONS -RICARDO MONTALBAN

MARTHA SCOTT « MIYOSHI UMEKI » JAMES GARNER

1 Y
tno laTRopuciNG 0 BY DIRECTED B

WILLTAY GOETZ: JOSHUA LOGAN

 

 

 

 

ao ofe odo ofe oo ofe oho oe obo ode ole fe oe ole oe fe ode he oho ole of ole foe
R. L. Hess and Bro.
JEWELERS
Lexington, Virginia
HO 3-2833
”
PEEPLES EEE EEE EEE

 

 

 

7:30 p.m.—The Military Department | Immediately
presents Dr. William Jenks on “Hit- PURCHASE DRUGS MRS. KATHERINE ADAMS
ler’s Germany.” duPont Hall. HO 3-2211 HO 3-3433
OO000000099000000 0900008
’ CALL BY NUMBER + It’s Good usiness
z and Save Time z To Do usiness
& with IERER’S
LEXINGTON *
TELEPHONE CO.  ¢ PHARMACY
&
ee ry

 

eho ofo rte ole ofe ote oferfe ode oe oer ole eke dese obo oto

 

 

Lexington
Laundro Matic

209 S. Main

*

HAND IRONED
SHIRTS

Dry Cleaning

Service

for your convenience

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Pe e

—— ° TEXACO °

= ° Super Service Station :
bo-saring OO an, , WIGHAEL WILDING : Sentusten, Viegtalo :
wit sara TECURICOLOR’- tat e Corner Main and Nelson °
SOCSSSSCOSSSSSOGOOESSESEEE

rrr =~ ee PO ee
HICKMAN’S ESSO } Waggy’s Jewelers |
} 35 S. Main Street }

South Main Street Phone HO 3-4121

BO 3-5008 THE HOME OF QUALITY |

4 4

da ttt tte dal | Vt ttt ttt tne ninth

 

 

 

 

American

 

 

THE COLLEGE INN

The Best Food in Town

Catering to the Students, Faculty,
and Towns People

OPEN SUNDAYS

—_)

and Italian

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

SPENCER

General Tire
536 E. Nelson Street

Best in Tires
GENERAL

Best in Recapping
Kraft Tread

New and Used Tires
FOR COMPACT CARS

 

 

FOREIGN CARS AND

Expert Motor Work

 

OUR SPECIALTY =

MAIN STREET MOBIL STATION

STUDEBAKER LARKS

Open 8:00 a.m.—8:00 p.m.

 

 

 

 

SCOSOOSSOOSOSOHOOOOOOHOOHEHOOHOOOHOOEHOOOHOESESES
FOR ROOM RESERVATIONS—CALL HO 3-2151

LEXINGTON
Large Rooms—U. S. 11 By-Pass South
Free TV—Phones—Continental Breakfast

Only Motel in corporate limits of Lexington
COOOCHSOHSOOOSOOS OOOOH OOOSOSSOSEEEOEOEHOEOEEEOE

DIXON’S

ESSO SERVICE CENTER
ROUTE 60 EAST IN LEXINGTON

Across from the White Top Resturant
HO 3-4214

Wash, Grease, Lube, Road Service

Charge Accounts Welcome

MOTEL

(Continued from page 2)

ry print job that PROTEST gets
every week. This must result from
the typist having to copy the various
caliph’s handwriting, so I suppose
it is a minor point. Nevertheless, no
point is too minor if there is room
for PROTEST.

And now, speaking for the Amer-
ican public as well as for myself,
I want to PROTEST the fact that
there are no advertisements in PRO-
TEST. This is obviously an attempt
to undermine the nation’s economy,
and with this PROTEST I want to
call on the good old House UN-
American Activities Committee to
come down and put on one of their
TV spectaculars for us. That would
be a PROTEST with results. I think
that everyone would agree that a
few ads from McCrum’s and The
College Town Shop would liven

 

Net Berths Filled
(Continued from page 3)

Williams think that Colgate, George
Washington, Duke and Virginia will
be the toughest matches on this
year’s schedule. But they feel that,

other strong players working to fill
out the team, W&L should post an-
other successful record in tennis.

‘Protest’ Protester Is Protested By Columnist

things up a little.

One final PROTEST concerning
PROTEST and I'll be through. Gray,
your paper needs one of two things
to be a complete PROTEST, and I
offer this advice as a SUGGEST:
either run a comic strip with blank
panels, or a cross-word puzzle with
all black squares. A little subtlety
like that would help out now and
then.

 

Letters To The Editor
(Continued from page 2)

Actually I enjoy the Ring-tum °
Phi very much, and think you do
a good job. I’m enclosing several
columns about conservatism—I may
be wrong, but I don’t think I am,
at least not now,

Yours sincerely,

Allan C. Brownfield

The Flat Hat

College of William and Mary
Williamsburg, Va.

OSOSSSS OPT ETT TON TeI08e

ROBERT E. LEE
BARBERSHOP

David M. Moore
Proprietor

oo sfore ote ofonte ode oforte ole ofe oferta oferfe ode ode oe of oe rbe

 

 

le Re BeBe Bete tle te te tee te
errr eer

 

 

 

chairman (Ralph ‘“Hot-Lips”

then we must let the arts come

Physics
Is what we learn
Einstein

Newton
Is highfalutin

You want another chorus? By

Curie

conist!

 

He wil tow Hallet 4 fbllbd

For example, it would be a very easy thing to teach poetry
and music right along with physics. Students, instead of merely
being called upon to recite in physics class, would instead be
required to rhyme their answers and set them to familiar tunes
—like, for instance, The Colonel Bogey March. Thus recitations
would not only be chock-full of important facts but would, at
the same time, expose the student to the aesthetic delights of
great music. Here, try it yourself. You all know The Colonel
Bogey March. Come, sing along with me:

(Author of “I Was a Teen-age Dwarf” ,“The Many
Loves of Dobie Gillis < etc.)

 

I WAS A TEEN-AGE SLIDE RULE
In a recent learned journal (Mad) the distinguished board

Sigafoos) of one of our most

important American corporations (the Arf Mechanical Dog Co.)
wrote a trenchant article in which he pinpointed our gravest
national problem: the lack of culture among science graduates.

Mr. Sigafoos’s article, it must be emphasized, was in no sense
derogatory. He stated quite clearly that the science student,
what with his gruelling curriculum in physics, math, and chem-
istry, can hardly be expected to find time to study the arts
too. What Mr. Sigafoos deplores—indeed, what we all deplore
—is the lopsided result of today’s science courses: graduates
who can build a bridge but can’t compose a concerto, who know
Planck’s Constant but not Botticelli’s Venus, who are familiar
with Fraunhofer’s lines but not with Schiller’s.

Mr. Sigafoos can find no solution to this hideous imbalance.
I, however, believe there is one—and a very simple one. It is
this: if students of science don’t have time to come to the arts,

to students of science.

    

ets

in class.

Said energy is mass.

And Pascal’s a rascal. So’s Boyle.
Do you see how much more broadening, how much more
uplifting to learn physics this way? Of course you do. What?

all means:

Leyden
He made the Leyden jar.
Trolley
He made the Trolley car.

Rode in a surrey,
And Diesel’s a weasel. So’s Boyle.

Once the student has mastered The Colonel Bogey March, he
can go on to more complicated melodies like Death and Trans-
figuration, the Eroica, and Love Me Tender.

And when the student, loaded with science and culture,
leaves the classroom and lights his Marlboro, how much more
he will enjoy that filter, that flavor, that pack or box! Because
there will no longer be an unease gnawing at his soul, no longer
a little voice within him repeating that he is culturally a colt.
He will know—know joyously—that he is a fulfilled man, 1
whole man, and he will bask and revel in the pleasure of his
Marlboro as a colt rolls in new grass—content, complete, truly
educated—a credit to his college, to himself, and to his tobac-

© 1961 Max Shulman

And while he is rolling, colt-wise, in the new grass, perhaps
he would stop long enough to try a new cigarette from the
makers of Marlboro—unfiltered, king-size Philip Mc:ris
Commander. Welcome aboard!
 

TUESDAY
Edition

Che KRing-tum Phi

Washington and Lee Semi-Weekly Newspaper

TUESDAY
Edition

 

Volume LXI

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA, MARCH 21, 1961

Number 44

 

 

 

El Pauling and his Royal Rockers, who will perform along with the Five Royals at the spring cocktail party
to be given in honor of Spring Dance president Bill Outman. The group will play from 4-6 on the afternoon

Deadlines Set

 

of April 14, in Red Square.

Five Royals, New York Group,
_ To Play At Spring Cocktail Party

By RICHARD CRUSE

The “fabulous” Five Royals will
play for the Spring Dance cock-
tail party to be held April 14 in
honor of the president of the dance
set, Bill Outman.

Bo DuBose, PiKA from Atlanta,
Ga., and vice-president in charge
of the cocktail party for Outman,
said today that the Five Royals
have been contracted for the party
to be held in Red Square Friday,
April 14, from 4-6 p.m.

DuBose told the Ring-tum Phi to-
day that the singing group will be
backed by El Pauling and his “Royal
Rockers” Orchestra.

Both groups, he said, were con-
tracted through Universal Attrac-
tions in New York City.

DuBose believes that the cocktail
party and Spring Dances will be a
great success, and that the week-
end as a whole will be one of the
more memorable events in recent
years at Washington and Lee.

Mahan, History Contests Nearing End

By HAL McCLANAHAN

Deadlines for the Mahan Awards
and the Virginia Colonial History
Essays have been set for April 3
and May 25 respectively. By these
dates students participating in the
Mahan Awards contest must turn
in a typewritten copy of their work
to Dr. A. R. Borden, Jr., of the
English Department; students enter-
ing the Virginia Historical Essay
contest, must submit their essays to
Dr. C. W. Turner, W&L chairman
of the contest.

At present, four students have
signed up for the history essay
contest; and several more people
have said that they would like to
enter, but have not chosen a topic
yet. The following students have
already chosen their subjects: Tom
Dols, “Eastern State Mental Hospi-
tal”; William Patty, “Virginia Colon-
ial Post Office”; James Camel,
“Colonial Episcopal Church,” and
Jack Wilson, “History of the Waller
Family.”

In last year’s history essay com-
petition Charles Via, a Kappa Sig,
won the Cincinnati Society’s campus
award of $50; and Joe Smith won
the Virginia Colonial Dames’ state-
wide prize of $200 with his essay,
“Colonial Tobacco Regulation in
Virginia.” He was the fourth man
in nine years from W&L to win
the Colonial Dames’ contest.

As in the past, the essays must
be at least 4000 words with foot-
notes and bibliography. The theme,
which can be submitted for both
historical contests, must be on an
original topic dealing with some
aspect of Virginia colonial and mil-
itary history. Some suggested topics
are “Dale’s Codes,” “Virginia Min-
ute Men,” “Governor Berkley and
Reform.”

‘Heads Or Tails’
Goes To Hollins

Dave Lefkowitz, president of
SWMSFC, has announced that the
musical Heads or Tails will make a
road trip to Hollins April 21 to give
a performance there. Lefkowitz feels
that the road trip, which has been
approved by both the Hollins and
W&L administrations, will be quite
successful, partially because of the
promised support of the Roanoke
Chapter of W&L alumni.

As the audience will be composed
of both W&L alumni and Hollins
students, there will be two prices
for tickets: $2.00 for alumni and $1.25
for students.

John Refo, Sigma Chi sophomore,
and Bill McWilliams, Phi Delt sen-
ior, will serve as managers for the
road trip.

Lefkowitz added that arrange-
ments to have the musical go to
Lynchburg are currently underway
with the Randolph-Macon adminis-
tration. The possible date for the
’Macon trip is April 19.

Tickets for the show perfor-
mances to be held in the Troub
Theater April 10 through April 15
are on sale now in the W&L Co-op.

 

 

 

Dr. Turner made the following
comment on the participation in the
contest: “Not only are more stu-
dents entering the contest than ever
before, but they are also choosing
entirely different topics. I am very
pleased with the number of con-
testants so far, and I hope that some
more students will sign up.”

The 1959-60 Mahan Awards, which
consisted of four prose and one
poetry award of $100 toward tuition
or $60 in cash, were presented to
two freshmen, two sophomores, and
one junior. Stephen Henry won the
freshman prose award with his
story, “So Dark the Shadow,” while
Mac McClung and Scott Iacone won
the sophomore prose division with
their stories, “The Weakness” and
“The Man with the Gray Flannel
Head.” Malcolm Brownlee, a prose
winner in his freshman year, won
the junior prose division with his
story, “The Hunters and Me.” Ches-
ter White, a freshman, won the poetry
division with his series of poems,
“Reflections.”

The prose selections, which must
be pledged and contain at least 1500
words, can be short stories, literary
criticisms, biographical studies, one-
act or longer plays, or informal
essays. A bibliography, and footnotes
must be used in a literary criticism,
and no purely factual prose will be
accepted.

All entries in the poetry division

 

ROTC Review

Lt. Col. Jeffrey G. Smith, Com-
mandant at Virginia Military Insti-
tute, will review the Washington
and Lee cadet corps at 4:45 tomor-
row afternoon.

Tomorrow’s activities will mark
his second visit to the W&L campus
within the past ten days, as he
spoke to the International Relations
Club last week on the subject of
the functions of the United Nation’s
Commission in Korea.

 

must contain a minimum of 30 lines,
and the work can be one or more
selections.

Ordinarily two prose awards are
given to freshmen, one to a soph-
omore, and one to a junior with
the poetry category left open to all
three classes. An award will not
be given in a class, however, if the
material does not meet a standard of
excellence set by the English de-
partment. The award may be shift-
ed from their classes but no more
than five can be given in a year.

“There have been more inquiries
this year by more students, which
we of the English Department are
glad to see.” Dr. Borden, head of

 

the English department, went on to
point out, however, that they will
not know exactly what students are
competing since everyone has to
use a pen-name.

Anyone who is interested in enter-
ing the Mahan Awards competition
of the Virginia Colonial History Es-
says should contact either Dr. Bor-
den or Dr. Turner as soon as pos-
sible.

The winners of the literary contest
will be announced in either late
April or early May, and the names
of the Mahan Awards winners and
the history essay winners will be
given in the commencement exer-
cises.

 

duPont Radio-Television Awards
Announced Monday; Morgan
Receives Individual Recognition

Television station KDKA-TV of
Pittsburgh, radio station WAVZ of
New Haven, Conn., and American
Broadcasting Company commenta-
tor Edward P. Morgan were an-
nounced yesterday as 1960 winners
of the Alfred I. duPont Radio and
Television Awards.

President Fred C. Cole of Wash-
ington and Lee University, chair-
man of the Foundation’s awards
committee, said leaders of the radio
and television industries will join in
honoring the winners in a formal
presentation of awards in Washing-
ton, D.C., on March 24.

The event will mark the 19th year
that the duPont Foundation has
singled out stations and individuals
for “excellence in broadcasting in
the public interest and meritorious
service to the American people.”

For WAVZ, it is the second time
the New Haven 1000-watt station
has won the duPont Award given to
stations of relatively smaller broad-

 

Tucker Law Lectures Scheduled,
Prettyman To Speak Next Month

The Honorable E. Barrett Pretty-
man, formerly chief judge of the
United States Court of Appeals for
the District of Columbia circuit, will
deliver the 1961 Tucker Lectures
in Lee Chapel on April 21 and 22.

In his lectures, two of which will
be given on Friday the 21st at noon
and 8 p.m. respectively, and one at
noon on Saturday, Judge Prettyman
will talk on “Some Modern Prob-
lems in Criminal Law Concerning
the Indigent, the Juvenile, and the
Incompetent.”

Born in Lexington, Va., in 1891,
Judge Prettyman took his M.A. de-
gree in 1911 from Randolph-Macon
College. In 1915 he received his LL.B.
from Georgetown University, where
he later earned his LL.D. in 1946. In
his judicial career Judge Prettyman
has served as a special attorney
to the Revenue Department from
1919-1920 and again as a general

 

counsel to the Bureau of Internal
Revenue from 1933-1934: He has
served with the law firms of Potter,
Prettyman, and Fisher, Hopwell, Va.,

1909-1917; Butler, Lamb, Foster, and | “m

Pope, Chicago and Washington,
D.C., 1920-1933; and Hewes, Pretty-
man and Owalt, Washington, D.C.,
and Hartford, Conn., 1936-1945. In
1945 he became a judge of the United
States Court of Appeals. He was a
professor of taxation at the George-
town University Law School and
has served as chairman of the Pres-
ident’s Conference on Administra-
tive Procedures.

Judge Prettyman will be the 13th
person to speak for the Tucker Law
Lectures. The first lecture was
delivered in 1949 by the Honorable
John W. Davis, a member of the
New York Bar and Law Class of
1895. The John Randolph Tucker
Lectures are delivered annually and
published in bound form.

 

casting power. WAVZ won first in
1950.

The award for KDKA-TV is the
first television division of the Pitts-
burgh station of the Westinghouse
Broadcasting Company, although
KDKA radio was the 1945 winner
among stations of relatively larger
power.

The commentator award for Mor-
gan is the veteran radio and tele-
vision newsman’s first duPont rec-
ognition.

Winners will receive engrossed
plaques and checks for $1,000 at
the annual awards banquet on March
24 at Washington’s Mayflower Hotel.

A panel of five judges, including
Mrs. Jessie Ball duPont, who es-
tablished the awards in 1942 in
memory of her late husband, Alfred
I. duPont, selected the winners from
nominations submitted by the broad-
casting industry and the general
public. In addition to President
Cole and Mrs. duPont, the judges’
panel included Mrs. E. Lee Ozbirn,
president of the General Federa-
tion of Women’s Clubs; Clifford J.
Durr, Montgomery, Ala., attorney
and former member of the Federal
Communications Commission; and
W. McNeill Lowry, director of the
Ford Foundation’s program in the
Humanities and Arts.

The judges cited KDKA-TV for
anagement policies which seek to
enlarge the station’s understand-
ing of the interest, activities, and
needs of the community and region
served, as well as for a responsible
programming policy resulting in a
wide variety of cultural, scientific,
editorial, educational, and public af-
fairs programs, superior in produc-
tion quality, and often broadcast at
prime time.”

WRVZ was praised for “active and
helpful participation in the political,
economic, and cultural life of the
community, resulting in editorial in-
vestigation and advocacy, aggressive
reporting of public affairs, and such
meritorious projects as the series
of programs designed to acquaint
young people with the problems of
young people in other lands.

 

The Five Royals have recorded
such hits as “Think,” “Please, Please,
Please,” and “It’s Just What I
What.” They have recorded on the
King label for the past few years,
but their latest record has been re-
leased on the Old Towne label.

The group has appeared on a
number of rock and roll shows
over the past few years, and has rec-
ords listed on the “Top Ten Hits”
poll a number of times.

DuBose said that gin and juice
will be served at the party and
that the mixture will be “potent”.

Outman, a junior at the PiKA
house and a resident of Bethesda,
Md., was this year selected in
the ODK elections. He was chosen
president of the Spring Dance in
last year’s campus elections.

The dance bands for the week-
end have not been announced as
yet, but James Vann, president of
the Dance Board, said that all ar-
rangements should be completed by

 

the time the students return from
the holidays.

The theme of this year’s dance
will be “Shangri-La.” President
Outman feels that the decorations
are coming along ahead of schedule
and that plans for the set are pro-
gressing in a suitable fashion.

 

Notices

Tickets for the Spring Musical,
“Heads or Tails” are now on sale
in the Co-op. For the week im-
mediately after Spring vacation
the price will be raised by fifty
cents per ticket. All door tickets
will be $2.50.

There will be a meeting of the
Assimilation Committee tonight at
7 p.m. in the Student Union.

This is the last week during
which graduation invitations may
be purchased. They may be bought
in the co-op each afternoon.

New Zealand Debate Team
Meets Buice And Shepherd

Two outstanding New Zealand
debaters will join a Washington and
Lee University team here tonight
to debate the assertion “That Amer-
ica needs more men like Robinson
Crusoe.”

The debate is scheduled for 8 p.m.
in duPont Auditorium.

James Hugh Cassidy Larsen and
Hector Charles MacNeill, graduate
students at Victoria University of
Wellington, New Zealand, are rep-
resenting their university on a tour
of the United States, under the
auspices of the Institute of Interna-
tional Education in New York.

One of the debaters from “down
under” will join W&L’s William
Buice, a SAE senior from Charlotte,
N.C., on the affirmative side and
the other will argue the negative
with Robert Shepherd, a senior law
student from Richmond.

Larsen and MacNeill both are in-
terested in law and politics. Larsen
holds a B.A. degree and a LL.B.
and presently is studying account-
ing. McNeill holds a M.A. degree
and is taking the final examinations
for a LL.B. degree.

The New Zealanders are exper-

 

ienced debaters. Both have partici-
pated in the inter-university Joynt
Scroll Debate Teams meets. Mac-
Neill has won the Union Prize for
the best University Debater, Larsen
has five years of debating experience
at the university and in community
debating clubs.

Buice captured seventh place
among 64 debaters in the recent Mi-
ami University (Ohio) Invitational
Debate Tournament. Shepherd is a
member of the university’s Law
School Moot Court team. Richard
Kelly, a Pi Phi junior from Balti-
more, Md., and John Lackey a
Richmond, Ky., Lambda Chi fresh-
man, also represented the university
at the meet.

The Washington and Lee debaters
have compiled an impressive rec-
ord this season. They captured the
state championship in the annual
Tau Kappa Alpha tournament in
November. At recent Temple Uni-
vesity competition two debate teams
compiled 4-0 and 2-2 records in
debates with leading Eastern uni-
versities.

William W. Chaffin, an instruc-
tor in English, is the debate team
coach.

 

Alumnus Donates $25,000 Grant
For Recognition Of W&L Faculty

A Washington and Lee University
alumnus has made an initial gift of
$25,000 to the university to be used
to reward and stimulate excellence
in teaching among faculty members,
President Fred C. Cole announced
Sunday.

The gift is the first of four such
benefactions totaling $100,000, which
James H. Clark of Dallas, Texas,
will make to Washington and Lee
over a four-year period, President
Cole said.

In accordance with Mr. Clark’s
wishes, President Cole said the uni-
versity will use the funds to in-
crease salaries of “those faculty
members who possess distinguished
records of teaching service in Wash-
ington and Lee’s classrooms and
laboratories.”

“It is Mr. Clark’s wish that his
gift not only serve as measure of
recognition for past service, but that
it help create added incentive for
Washington and Lee professors to
develop still further their talents
and abilities as teachers of under-
graduates,” President Cole declared.

President Cole said the first salary
increments from the Clark fund will
be made for the 1961-62 school year.

“It is especially significant that
Mr. Clark recognizes the vital need
for Washington and Lee and higher
education in general to provide
proper compensation for its teach-
ers,” President Cole said. “His gen-
erous support enables Washington
and Lee to make further progress in
its continuing program for improv-
ing faculty salaries. We are deeply
indebted to Mr. Clark, not only
for the monetary value of his gift,
but for the encouragement and in-
centive it brings to our faculty.”

President Cole said Washington

 

and Lee will continue to seek im-
provements in its salary levels un-
til its teachers “can expect the same
range of compensation that is open
to similarly qualified and similarly
trained men in government, busi-
ness and industry.”

“In some degree, the role of the
scholar who is a dedicated teacher
has not been given proper recogni-
tion in the last few years,” President
Cole pointed out. “Mr. Clark and I
agree that economic considerations
should not deter scholars of highest
qualifications from devoting their
time and attention to the signifi-
cant and formative years of educa-
tional development of our young
people.”

Clark, a Dallas businessman and
corporate executive, attended Wash-
ington and Lee from 1927 to 1929.

 

Lexington Lawyers Take
Bench At Student Trials

Ten Rockbridge County and Lex-
ington attorneys, including Town
Mayor Paul A. Holstein, will sit in
the judge’s seat at Washington and
Lee University’s Moot Court Room
this week to hear oral arguments by
freshmen law students.

The courtroom activities, part of
the instruction program in_ the
course on brief making and oral

arguments for freshmen, will last
five days.
Each local attorney will act as

chief judge in the hearing of an
appelate case. Two senior law stu-
dents will act as associate judges
in each case.
Besides Holstein, other lawyers
taking part will be Charles S. Glas-
(Continued on page 4)
Page Z

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

THE HONOR SYSTEM EXPLAINED

We as editors of the Washington and Lee University news-
paper feel that it is incumbent upon us to present a clear ex-
planation of the spirit, the procedure and the mechanics of our
Honor System. In light of current controversy as to the nature
of the system we feel that such an explanation is warranted to
eliminate any misunderstanding on the part of the student body
at large.

First, may we make it clear that our comments do not
necessarily represent the opinion of the Executive Committee
of the Student Body upon which we sit. Our obligation to this
University as editors of the University paper demands that we
present, in good faith, our arguments for the validity of the
present system.

Washington and Lee’s Honor System is not a detailed code;
it is not a formalized set of rules and regulations, nor a series of
prohobitions leveled at specific areas of student life. Rather it
embodies a massive spirit of honor—a spirit which is not forti-
fied by codification. However, there are necessarily certain
basic principals with which the spirit of this system is associ-
ated—namely, that lying, cheating, stealing and failing to
report a suspected violation are negations of this spirit.

Before we begin a detailed explanation of our sys-
tem, we feel that it is necessary to eliminate a possible
ambiguity in the student’s mind resulting from a con-
fusion of terms. First, it should be understood that the
Executive Committee does not “prosecute” an alleged
offender of the Honor System. Rather, an Executive
Committee trial is an attempt to uncover evidence per-
taining to the “‘guilt” or “innocence” of the individual
involved, and to arrive at a decision based upon this evi-
dence. To obtain this evidence it is necessary to question
both the witnesses and the accused.

The decision arrived at by the Executive Committee after
the admission of evidence is in no way final. For, if the accused
feels that there has been a miscarriage of justice, he has every
right to a public trial (the procedure for which will be ex-
plained below). This right of appeal must be waived by the

accused before the Executive Committee’s decision is consid-

ered final.

Purpose

The Honor System assumes that every student is a gentle-
man and requires that he shall act honorably in all phases of
student life. Lying, cheating, stealing or knowing of and failing
to report a suspected Honor System offense are infringements
of the Honor System. The result of a conviction in such cases
is dishonorable dismissable from the University. The written
pledge in classes on quizzes, examinations, written problems,
and exercises is a symbol connoting that the work which the
student hands to his professor is his own, which he himself has
done in accordance with the requirements of the course as laid
down by the professor. The written pledge is as follows: “On
my honor I have neither given nor received aid on this exami-
nation.” The faculty will cooperate in establishing a clear un-
derstanding of these requirements.

In any case of doubt as to the nature and/or extent of a
pledge the student should immediately request that the pro-
fessor in charge make the requirements perfectly clear to the
entire class. The pledge should be regarded as a reminder of
the trust reposed on the individual student; however, it should
be noted that the written pledge is not essential to bring the
individual within the obligations of the Honor System.

The Honor System requires in the second place that, when
a student sees another student in suspicious circumstances, he
shall further observe the matter, requesting another individ-
ual (s) to act as witness (s), and if they find evidence of guilt,
to notify a member of the Executive Committee. It is impera-
tive that everyone recognizes this duty of protecting the Hon-
or System and the student body. He who accepts the benefits
of the Honor System is morally bound to report any suspected
violations. This can in no way be construed as spying or tale-
bearing. It is the finest expression of loyalty to a cherished tra-
dition of honor among a community of self-governing students.

If a student leaves the University to avoid facing the Honor
Trial, jurisdiction is retained by the student body to investigate
the case, and, after making every effort to induce the suspect
to return and face the charges, to report to the proper dean
and to the Registrar that such absent student is not entitled
to an honorable dismissal, if his guilt is determined.

One of the greatest dangers to which an Honor System
can be exposed is that of being ‘“‘overloaded.”’ To avoid this,
and preserve inviolate a precious heritage, it is essential that
the Honor System shall concern itself solely with those offenses
which are classified as dishonorable by the public opinion of
the student generation involved. Hence there must be many
things, reprehensible and heartily condemned by the Executive
Committee and all good citizens, which still cannot be brought
under the Honor System. Numerous examples could be cited
but it is sufficient to mention a few such as sexual immorality,
breaches of administrative regulations, and failure to pay honest

debts.’

New students especially should take every opportunity of
acquainting themselves with the working of the Honor Sys-
tem in detail, as well as these general principles. The Executive
Committee will cooperate with anyone making such inquiry.

Procedure

The following is an analysis of the procedure followed by
the Executive Committee in investigating and trying an alleged
honor violation.

When an alleged violation is reported to a member of the
Executive Committee, the President of the Student Body
in the company of the investigators and the committeeman
thoroughly investigates the circumstances surrounding the
suspected violation. Should this group feel that there is suf-
ficient evidence of a possible honor violation, the President of
the Student Body shall immediately refer the case to the
Executive Committee.

If the Executive Committee feels that there is sufficient
evidence of an Honor System violation to justify a trial, they
may by a majority vote of the standing committee vote to go
to trial. This empowers the President of the Student Body to
present the accused an opition of voluntarily withdrawing from
the University before facing trial. Accompanying the President
are a member or members of the Executive Committee selected
by him and, where possible, known to the accused. The Presi-
dent advises the accused of his rights and warns him of the
consequences of conviction by the Honor Court.

After the President and the accompanying members have
answered those questions to which they can in propriety re-
ply, the accused shall be given two hours to decide whether
to stand trial or take the option.

If the accused elects to withdraw from the University,
rather than face trial by the Honor Court, he is required to
sign a statement witnessed by two members of the Executive
Committee, forfeiting his right to a trial and his right of appeal
to the Student Body in public trial.

However, if the accused elects to stand trial, he is placed
in an ante-room and the questioning of witnesses begins.

We feel that the maintaining of secrecy in every as-
pect of trial procedure is of the utmost importance to
insure the maximum protection of both the witnesses
and the accused. Also, unless the accused requests to
face his accuser(s), they will remain unknown to him.

During the initial phase of questioning before the Honor
Court, the accused and/or witnesses are questioned only by the
investigators and the President. Upon the termination of this
initial round of questioning, each individual is escorted back
to the ante-room and informal discussion may follow the ini-
tial round pertaining to certain points in the case.

All testimony is given before the Committee except in
cases of extreme inconvenience. This stipulation includes mem-
bers of the faculty, administration and out of town residents.

Subsequent to the initial phase of the questioning by the
Honor Court, an individual is questioned by members of the
Committee pending recognition by the president. The presi-
dent for good cause may allow or disallow their particular
questions.

After thorough questioning, both of the accused and all
witnesses, there follows an informal discussion of the points
in the case. If it is apparent that nothing further can be gained
from questioning the individual involved in the case, and if
there is no further discussion desired by the committee, the
president calls for a summary of the trial.

At this time he appoints two members of the committee
who will, in turn, summarize evidence pointing to the guilt
and innocence, respectively, of the accused. The president then
declares a brief intermission during which time, the resume of
pertinent facts and law bearing on the case is prepared. Special
pains are taken to set forth an unbiased summary of the
evidence.

After the presentation of these summaries, the president
presents further instructions to the committee if he deems it
necessary. There is no discussion as to the guilt or innocence
of the accused after the presentation of the summaries of the
trial prior to the vote by secret ballot.

In the event that two-thirds of the members of the standing
committee vote guilty, the accused is found guilty of a breach
of the Honor System.

Following the taking of the ballot, the president pro-
nounces the verdict of the committee. If the vote is guilty, there
is no appeal to the court in regard to the committee’s decision,
but the convicted person has the option of resigning from the
university at once, or demanding a public trial by a jury

 

 
 

ITS RATHER
FRIGHTENING TO
SEE THE DAYS GO
BY SO FAST..

   
    

TD SAV THAT GRASS IS GREEN ,
YOU KNOW, |S NOT SAVING NEARLY
ENOUGH,..ACTUALLY, IA VERY
GRATEFUL FOR HAVING NATURALLY
CURLY HAIR...1 REALLY AM...

  

 

    

 

 

 

 

SOMETIMES MY DADDY CALLS ME
LADYBUG" ..I USED TO READ A
LOT, BUT LATELY I JUST DON'T
SEEM TO HAVE TIME...

FRIEDA SITS BEHIND MME IN
SCHOOL... HAVEN'T HEARD A
WORD OUR TEACHER HAS SAID
| THIS WHOLE SEMESTER! —_|

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

chosen from members of the student body above the freshman
class. If he elects to resign, he signs the aforementioned waiver
of a public trial. He remains under the purisdiction of the
Executive Committee and is accompanied by a minimum of
two members of the committee until his departure from the
town of Lexington no later than twenty-four hours after his
conviction. Strict secrecy is maintained to assure his protection.

Public Trials

The following is the procedure for public trial:

In a public trial, the President of the Student Body or such
other member of the Student Body as he shall appoint, with
the consent of the Executive Committee, shall act as judge.
The judge may request the presence of a member of the faculty
or of the Student Body to sit with him for the purposes of as-
sisting him in the conduct of the trial.

The secretary of the Student Body shall act as Clerk of
Court; the Sheriff shall be appointed by the President from
the Student Body; there shall be two prosecuting attorneys
chosen by the Executive Committee from the Law School;
the accused shall have the privilege of two attorneys chosen
by him from the Student Body.

The procedure shall be substantially similar to that in
criminal cases in the State Courts of Virginia, freed from tech-
nicalities, and strict rules of evidence shall not prevail. On
questions of evidence, the decisions of the judge shall be final,
but previous sworn testimony, recorded or otherwise, shall be
freely admitted.

No person shall be put upon public trial for a suspected
Honor System violation unless a complaint in writing shall have
first been served upon him by the Executive Committee.

The person to be judge of public trial shall set the date and
the place for the trial. He will make such announcements and
orders as may seem proper. The trial shall in no wise be set
for a date later than 15 days after service of the complaint
upon the accused, day of service, Sundays, and legal holidays
excluded.

The judge shall order a jury to be chosen from the mem-
bers of the Student Body above the freshman class. Fifty
names shall be chosen by the Registrar, by lot, from a list of all
students in good standing above the freshman class. This shall
be done by the Registrar, or someone in his office not connect-
ed with the accused or the two prosecutors, and in the presence
of two senior students of the University selected by the judge.
The names of the jurors shall be listed as they are drawn and
the list shall be signed by the person who drew the names, the
two senior students, to the effect that they have complied with
the procedure herein. The list shall contain the class, major,
fraternity, and home address of those persons chosen. The list
shall be given to the Clerk of the Court.

From the list of 50 students, the first 20 shall constitute the
panel, from which the prosecutor may strike four and the ac-
cused four, and the remaining 12 shall constitute the jury for
the trial. Striking shall be done alternately, beginning with the
prosecutor. No other challenges shall be allowed except for
cause. The judge shall determine a challenge for cause. If less
than eight be striken off the panel, 12 of those remaining there-
on shall be selected by lot and shall constitute the jury. If the
panel is reduced by challenges to less than 12 the pane! shall
be replaced from the remaining 30 students in the order in
which they appear on the list.

A witness in an honor system case shall be obligated to at-
tend upon being summoned by either the prosecutor or the
accused. The Sheriff shall be responsible for summoning
witnesses.

The accused may be sworn and examined in his own behalf,
and if so sworn and examined, he shall be deemed to have
waived his privilege of not giving evidence against himself, and
shall be subject to cross examination as any other witness;
but his failure to testify shall create no presumption against
him, nor be commented upon before the judge or jury by
the prosecutor.

On public trial of a suspected Honor System offense be-
fore any evidence on either side, counsel for prosecution and
for the accused, respectively, shall have the right to make an
opening statement of their case to the jury.

In case of conviction in the trial, the convicted man shall
be officially advised by the President of the Student Body to
withdraw at once from the University.

If any student to whom an oath is given on any occasion
willfully swears falsely on such occasion touching any material
matter or thing, he shall be guilty of perjury and the Honor
System violation of lying.

Contempt of court shall consist of misbehavior in the pres-
ence of the court; the judge may refer such cases of contempt
to the Executive Committee which shall have power to recom-
mend to the Administration such punishment as the Execu-
tive Committee may deem necessary for such misbehavior.

There shall be no appeal from the decision of a trial by
jury of an honor system conviction and the decision rendered
shall be final.

It has been our purpose to outline what we feel to be the
essentials of Washington and Lee’s Honor System. At a later
date, we will analyze the relative merits of this procedure. Let
it suffice for us to say at this time that the principle of honor
and the procedure discussed above are the necessary and prac-
tical ramifications of a spirit of honor at Washington and Lee.

Rosewell Page, III, Nathan P. B. Simpson
 

THE RING-TUM PHI

Page 3

 

comer

 

Carpenter throws batting practice in preparation for Friday’s game.

Generals Face Dartmouth,
Hit South For Spring Trip

Washington and Lee’s baseball
team opens what its coach calls “the
toughest schedule in the South”
here March 24 against Dartmouth,
the Ivy League’s defending cham-
pion.

But Coach Lyles isn’t particularly
worried. In fact he is looking for
an improvement over last year’s 3-16
record.

Lyles, who has been pleased
with the team’s showing in two
intra-squad games, plans to pick
his regular line-up during W&L’s
annual “spring training trip.”

On this trip during the annual
college spring vacation, the Gen-
erals meet Elon, East Carolina,
and North Carolina State, and play
Fort Gordon, Ga., three times.

Besides the spring trip, W&L
has eight games with Southern Con-
ference teams, and eight games
with teams of the Mason-Dixon

Qeecooressreoereeerrerrrs

: IDEAL
* BARBER SHOP

: QUICK SERVICE

-
“le

4
Werke rfeofe re ne ofe fe she ne ofonfe she ofende ole ale oho ofe she ae ole shee

 

Se he he Ye Bese Bo Bede
a ee le ie ie ae

 

"are

Conference.

The Generals will be strong down
the middle with returning lettermen
at all key positions. Jim Russ is
catcher, Park Gilmore at second
base, captain Ned Hobbs at short-
stop and Robin Wood in center-
field.

Lettermen Roy Carpenter and
Phil Sharp, who won all of W&L’s
games last year, head a strong
General Mound staff. Both are
righthanders.

Three freshmen lefties give depth
to the pitching corps. Brice Gamber,
(Continued on page 4)

 

 

 

Radio Hospital
*
Radio, TV, Phonograph
Sales and Service

*

HO 3-3531

 

 

 

le Me Be Me Be Be Be te Ba Se Be Be Be Be Be Me Ba Ba Be Be Ba Be Be Be Be Be Be Bo Be Be Be Be te Be Be Me Be le Be Be Be Ue Bo Be ee

 

Be Me ste ae te Sa Me Me Me Be Be te Be Ba Ba tte Ba Be Ba Be te Bare Shade Be Ba te a tte te Be Bete
Bl la lh ee he a he a ae ee he ie le ee ae

EE Se TE eT Tee eeeeerrrrrrrrrrrrrrere eee

We Feature

SEALTEST

Dairy Products
To get the best get Sealtest”

over twenty different products in addition to
delicious Sealtest ice cream

Block and Crushed Ice

Your favorite mixes—Ice Cold

k
Maple-Rock Distributors, Inc.

othe Be she Be ihe ale Me Me ale Me ate ale Me dhe ae le Be he Bo he Be Be Me Ma Me Be Me Ba Be Be Be Ba Be Be Be Be Be Bede Bee debe dee

Se Mo Ma Be ole Me Mle se Be he Me dhe a Be Be Be Me Bee te Me Be Ba dle Be the a te he tla Bate Bade
MHP GP PGT PEt PG MEP MEY PGT EY MGT PES PES MR MES OES PGS PEO ES ES OES PGS PES PGS PRY PET PT RS PRY PRY Mat MRP PY a RY

 

 

te te
Se

ee eR eS eS SST SSS Se eee eee eee

 

 

 

The Southern Inn

Cordially invites you to make this your headquarters for good food
Here you get the best food for the most reasonable prices

Our Specialties:

Steaks, Chicken, Country Ham, and the best sandwiches
in town

Meet your friends here

 

 

 

 

 

STUDENTS ACCOUNTS INVITED HERE
Member F.D. LC.

 

 

Fort Gordon Strength

 

WEL Nine Face Service Squad
In Southern Barnstorming Trip

By BARRY GREENE

In Florida, under warm sunny
skies the major league baseball
teams continue to train vigorously
in preparation for the opening of
the 1961 season. In icy, wind-blown
Lexington, the Washington and Lee
Generals heartily brave the cold
and continue to prepare for their
season which opens Friday, and then
commence a southern swing that
will include seven games between
Friday and April 1.

Three of these games will be
played at Fort Gordon, Georgia,
against the army base. These three
games should prove to be the hard-
est games of the season for the Gen-
erals. Just a look at their last year’s
record and personnel is enough to
convince the heartiest skeptic of this
fact. Last year the Fort Gordon team
won the Third Army championship
for the second successive season, de-
feating Ft. McPhearson, Ga., 13-5
in the finals.

While the Generals boast of their
big three pitchers: Carpenter, Gam-
ber and Sharp, the Fort Gordon, Ga.
team also boast of three big pitchers.
Mal Warren, property of the Balti-
more Orioles, hung up a 17-3 record
for the Signalares, including two
victories in the Third Army tour-
nament. The 23-year-old right-
hander possesses a sizzling fast ball
and a good curve. Bob Angel, of
the St. Louis Cardinal chain, pitched
two no-hitters and posted a 15-4
record. Angel, a 23-year-old south-
paw, is most effective with his wide
sweeping curve. Bernie Van Rem-
men, a 19-year-old right-hander
with no pro experience and a hop-

 

ping fast ball, caught the eye of Red
Sox scout Willard Nixon. Another
pitcher, Percy Carter, a_ right-
hander, is the product of the Chicago
White Sox farm and specialized in
relief for the Signalares.

In addition, Jack Adeits, first base-
man was the team’s leading hitter
with 380 over the regular season
Adeits, a converted pitcher, played
for Dothan in the Alabama-Florida
League. Lou Mrowcynski, played
third, outfield and caught for the
Signalares. He played with San An-
tonio, Texas League, in 1958. Catch-
er Joe Theis, who played for Al-
bany, Eastern League, before service,
made four all-star teams in five
years of minor ball. He hit over .300
for the Signalares. Bobby Davis, 19-
year-old shortstop of the San Fran-
cisco Giants farm, was leading hit-
ter, .450 in the Third Army tour-
nament.

There is no doubt that the Gener-
als are up against a team that could
probably fair well against any col-
lege team in the country. Coach
Lyles and the bunch have been
training hard for four weeks now,
and the weather, although cold, has
allowed the team to get outside
almost every day.

 

Coming Events

Friday, March 24

3:15 p.m.—Lacrosse. W&L vs. Uni-
versity of Maryland.

3:15 p.m.—Baseball.
Dartmouth.

W&L vs.

 

Ticket Sales
Lagging For

Lacrosse Game

By RANDY COLE

The Washington and Lee lacrosse
team is now making final prepara-
tions in anticipation of its coming
schedule this week which includes
games with the University of Mary-
land on Thursday, and the combined
Cambridge-Oxford team on Friday.
Coach Bob McHenry feels that the
team has come along very well in
the past few weeks and that the
boys are in fine physical condition.
As of late, the boys have been prac-
ticing every day in an effort to be
fully prepared for those two teams.

Maryland, after its loss a week ago
to the Mt. Washington Lacrosse Club
by a score of 15-7, should be up for
the game and will be gunning for
the Generals. The Terrapins have
lost many of their star performers
from last year’s squad but expect
great things from Ray Altman at
attack, and Buddy Beardmore and
Wall Durigg at midfield. All three
of these boys have been mentioned
for possible All-American berths.

The Cambridge-Oxford team will
arrive in Lexington on Thursday in
time to view the W&L-Maryland
contest and will tackle the Generals
the following day. At present, ticket
sales for the game, which will be
the first that any foreign team has
played in America, have fallen be-
low expectations. As publicized, the
team has been promised a nominal
gate figure to pay for its traveling
expenses, and any deficiency will
have to be made up by the athletic
department. Coach McHenry is
hopeful of selling 300-500 more tick-
ets to the game, since only 150 have

(Continued on page 4)

 

 

For those extra pieces

of
FURNITURE

for your room
see our stock
before buying

e
VARNER AND POLE

 

 

 

Open a convenient student Checking account
TODAY

Rockbridge National Bank

Member Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation

 

 

 

Golfers Play
At Greenbrier

With the opening tournament right
around the corner, the W&L golf
team continues to work. On April 1
and 2 the Generals will travel to the
Greenbrier where they will partici-
pate in the Invitational Intercol-
legiate Tournament with seven
other college teams. The other teams
include Virginia, West Virginia, Col-
gate, Ohio, George Washington,
Davidson and Dennison. On April
5 the Generals take on MIT here.

The team consists of two return-
ing lettermen: captain Jack Varda-
mand and Grantham Couch, juniors.
Ronnie Stuart, Steve Henry, and
Willie Lee, all sophomores, have
improved considerably. The remain-
ing position is held by freshman Jack
Neal.

All tournaments will be 36 holes,
medal play. In college tournaments
all six boys’ scores count. This makes
it all the more important for a team
to be well-rounded, and not just
boast of one or two standouts.

Coach Twombly said yesterday
that most of the good college scores
are in the low 70’s. “Although not
many golfers break seventy we hope
to have a team average in the low
70’s. Just last week Ronnie Stuart
fired a seventy-one.”

Last year captain Jack Vardaman
was the State Intercollegiate Cham-
pion. He also won the Green-
brier tournament, in addition to
three other tournaments won at
home.

rrr eee

 

THE NEW

White Top

Restaurant
+

erie toote

A personal invitation
to the
Students
Try our delicious foods
Route 60 East

Terre ee ee ee ee ee ee re ee

 

4
*
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
q
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4

re
feos oho fe of oke oho oho oho fe shee

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

WHAT SORT

Sure to take

Cameras

14 West Washington Street

PRES BROWN’S

A YOUNG MAN

Golf Clubs

Tennis Rackets

and all other sporting equipment

and Gifts from:

PRES BROWN’S

OF MAN SHOPS

at

the lead buys his

Fishing Gear

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
Page 4

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

Frosh Prospects
Brighten Scene

(Continued from page 3)

who has. been nicknamed “the
Pretzel-Bender,” has claimed the
third starting spot behind Carpenter
and Sharp. Ed Norton and Bill Mar-
mion will team with third baseman-
pitcher Chuck Lane to form what
Lyles hopes to be a good relief trio.

Joining Wood, who is termed
as “one of the best college de-
fensive centerfielders in the coun-
ty” by Lyles, are lettermen Bob
Williams and Wis Silver.

First base, the team’s biggest
question mark, is being manned by
6-5 freshman Howie Martin.

Carpenter, who plays third base
when he isn’t pitching, is the club’s
leading hitter, carrying over a .304
average from last year. Lyles is
looking for Wood and Hobbs to help
Carpenter carry the hitting load
this year.

“Hitting was our problem last
year, but after only two weeks
this year we are hitting 75 to 100
per cent better,” Lyles said.

Lyles will play his usual run-
ning game this year with Wood
and Hobbs, who stole 40 bases be-
tween them last year, supplying
the speed.

“We have an average club, but
we’re ready to start winning,” Lyles
said in summing up his outlook on
the season.

 

 

| STANLEY WARNER

STAT

LEXINGTON, VA.
L_MOBART 3-3424 |

 

 

NOW SHOWING

ww HOLDEN

Starks THE WORLD OF

SUZiE WONG
RANCY

   

edt SYLVA SYMS MICHAEL WILDING
JOHN PATRICK: RICHARD QUINE
witcha TECRIICOLOR®- "ss"

 

 

 

LEXINGTON
CLEANERS

Phone HO 3-3813 108 S. Jefferson

 

 

 

 

; Bebe oe hee of oho oho oe oe re nfo fe ofe oe heehee oe ofefe fede

White’s Music

Store

4

he

.

’

.

\

e

4

:

; (Opposite State Theater)
.

k

° . .
+ Phonographs—Hi-Fi
grap

Expert Repair Service
.

; i

%

e
\
.
%
.
.
%
.

5 W. Nelson St. Lexington, Va.

HO 3-3522

 

4
q
4
4
4
4
4
q
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
‘
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
q
rf
4
4

fob obo obe oho obo ere obese oe ofe she voodoo ofr ofe oe fe rleoheote

 

 

For SPRING and EASTER
Vacations

& ;
SPECIAL COLLEGE RATES |

GEBILTMORE

IN NEW YORK

$525 per person

(3 to a room)
$G25 per person

(2 to a room)

$Q00 single

For information or reservations
address Mr. Ralph Schaffner,
The Biltmore, New York 17, N. Y.
Madison Avenue at 43rd Street
MUrray Hill 7-7000
“WHERE EVERYONE MEETS
UNDER THE CLOCK”

W@&L Meets English Team

(Continued from page 3)

been purchased thus far. The game
certainly promises to be an inter-
esting and exciting contest, and stu-
dent support is earnestly desired.

In anticipation of these two con-
tests, the boys have been practic-
ing real hard. Coach McHenry feels
that “morale is good, and if we
hustle, play smart lacrosse, and get
the groundballs we stand a fine
chance of coming out on top.”

He feels that the team could sur-
prise a lot of people during the
forthcoming season.

Following these two games, the
squad will journey to Baltimore
where it will begin spring training,
meeting every day during vacation.

 

Moot Court Lawyers
(Continued from page 1)

god, D. Allen Penick, William M.
A. Romans, Jr., Shuler A. Kiser,
Charles W. Gunn, Jr., Henry J.
Foresman, Daniel W. McNeil, and
William O. Roberts. A tenth at-
torney is yet to be named.

Be Re

 

 

 

 

Tues. and Wed.

   

‘A Derry F. Zanoch Prod. nc. Picture

 

 

 

 

The Ring-tum Phi is gatas Tues-
day and Friday durin

It is printed We the

atory Press, a
versity. The mailing address is Box
899, Lexington, Va,

Entered ag second class matter Sep-
tember 20, 1946 at the Post Office, Lex-
ington, Va.,

8, 1878.

National Advertising Representative:
The National Advertisers
420 Madison Ave., New York, N.Y.

Che Ring-tuon Phi

he college year.
purnalisen Labor Editorial Board

shington and Lee Uni-

News Editor....... a
Sports Editor

under the act of March| Associate Editors........ Lanny Butler.

Photography Editor.

Advertising Manager...

  

ervice, Inc.,

EE sstetencnnnn Rosewell Page,
Business Manager.............. Huntley Biggs

Ill

Managing Edito®............0000 Bill Roberts
Assistant Managing Editor...............
e

 

Bill
Smith, Ronnie King

e
Circulation Manager........ Peter Agelesto

 

 

 

BROWN’S Green Valley Motel
CLEANING
One Mile North on
WORKS U. S. Highway No. 11
We call for
LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA
and deliver
HO 3-2195
HO 3-2013 14 Randolph St.

 

 

 

 

 

Be Me sMe Be Be Be Be Me he Be Be Me Be Be Be Be Me Be Bs Ze Be Be Be Be Se Be Bs Be Be Bo Bo Be Bo Be BeBe Bo Bede Bode hoch ee ee

 

@, H, Ss Se Be Be Me Me Me a he le he Me le te te tle a te ate
Tee re ee ee ee

OE ET EE ET eee. eeeeoeeerrorrr___'_ovovovvevvevneene

Shirt Service as You Like it
Quality Cleaning and Pressing

UNIVERSITY CLEANERS
HO 3-3622

*
“Your Campus Neighbors”

ae she she ae the Me Be he Be Be he Be Be Be Be Be Be Be BeBe BeBe Be Bo Be Be Be Be BeBe BeBe Be BeBe Bo Be BeBe BeBe Bee BeBe Bade

Be Se oe ee, Se ee ee
HS eS ee SS eS eS ee eee

 

 

 

: MYERS
* HARDWARE :
* COMPANY 3

OE eS ee Te See. eeeeeeeeerrrrr_r__nn,,,r,ree

Ted’s Steak House

Finest Foods
Choice Meats

Ww
SUNDAY DINNERS

Route 60 Buena Vista

 

 

a

 

 

Decidedly not. In fact most executive jobs are on
the ground. Of course, all officers may apply for pilot
and navigator training if they meet the eligibility
requirements. There will always be a need for piloted
aircraft. And it is foreseeable that in your working
lifetime, there will be piloted spacecraft—piloted and
navigated by Air Force officers,

But right now, there is also a big future for college-
trained Air Force officers on the ground. New and
exciting technical jobs are opening up. Important ad-
ministrative positions must be filled as World War II
officers move into retirement.

How can you—a college student—become an Air
Force officer? First, there’s Air Force ROTC. Then
for college graduates, men and women in certain
fields, there is Officer Training School. The graduate
of its three-month course wins a commission as a sec-
ond lieutenant. Other ways are the Navigator Train-
ing program, and the Air Force Academy.
Some benefits that go with being an Air Force
officer. Starting salary plus allowances compare
with the average in equivalent civilian jobs. Then
there’s free medical and dental care, thirty-day vaca-
tion, the chance to win graduate degrees at Air
Force expense, and liberal retirement provisions.
No, Air Force officers do not need wings to move
up. There’s plenty doing on the ground. Perhaps you
could be one of these young executives in blue. Ask
your local Air Force Recruiter. Or write, Officer
Career Information, Dept. 8C13, Box 7608,
Washington 4, D.C., if you want further infor-
mation about the navigator training or Officer

Training School programs.

U.S. Air Force

There’s a place for
professional achievement on the
Aerospace Team

 

 

 

 

 

ROCKBRIDGE LAUNDRY

and
Dry Cleaners

Shirts Transparently Wrapped
for Freshness
*
AGENTS:

Fraternities, Dorms and Co-op

 

 

 

 

 

 

The First National Bank

of Lexington
*
has special checking accounts

for students

 

 

   

 
 
   

Cciene wll lfindey

 

On Campus se! ic0
g

(Author of “I Was a Teen-age Dwarf”, “The Many

Loves of Dobie Gillis’, etc.)

   

BOOM!

Today, foregoing levity, let us turn our keen young minds to the
No. 1 problem facing American colleges today: the population
explosion. Only last week four people exploded in Cleveland,
Ohio—one of them while carrying a plate of soup. In case you’re
thinking such a thing couldn’t happen anywhere but in Cleve-
land, let me tell you there were also two other cases last week —
a 45 year old man in Provo, Utah, and a 19 year old girl in
Bangor, Maine—and in addition there was a near-miss in
Klamath Falls, Oregon—an eight year old boy who was saved
only by the quick thinking of his cat Walter who pushed the
phone off the hook with his muzzle and dialled the department
of weights and measures. (It would perhaps have made more
sense for Walter to dial the fire department, but one can hardly
expect a cat to summon a fire engine which is followed by a
Dalmatian, can one?)

   
  

  
 

   

i
F It
oes

  

“aie

I bring up the population explosion not to alarm you, for I
feel certain that science will ultimately solve the problem. After
all, has not science in recent years brought us such marvels as
the transistor, the computer, the bevatron, and the Marlboro
filter? Oh, what a saga of science was the discovery of the
Marlboro filter! Oh, what a heart-rending epic of endless trial
and error, of dedication and perseverance! And, in the end, what
a triumph it was when the Marlboro scientists after years of
testing and discarding one filter material after another—iron,
nickel, lead, tin, antimony, sponge cake—finally emerged, tired
but happy, from their laboratory, carrying in their hands the
perfect filter cigarette! What rejoicing there was that day!
Indeed, what rejoicing there still is whenever we light a Marlboro
and settle back and enjoy that full-flavored smoke which comes
to us in soft pack or flip-top box at tobacco counters in all
fifty states and Cleveland!

Yes, science will ultimately solve the problems rising out of the
population explosion, but in the meantime the problems hang
heavy over America’s colleges. This year will bring history’s
greatest rush of high school graduates. Where will we find class-
rooms and teachers for this gigantic new influx?

Well sir, some say the answer is to adopt the trimester system.
This system, now in use at many colleges, eliminates summer
vacations, has three semesters per annum instead of two, and
compresses a four year course into three years.

This is good, but is it good enough? Even under the trimester
system the student has occasional days off. Moreover his nights
are utterly wasted in sleeping. Is this the kind of all-out attack
that is indicated?

I say no. I say desperate problems call for desperate reme-
dies. I say that partial measures will not solve this crisis. I say
we must do no less than go to school every single day of the
year. But that is not all. I say we must go to school 24 hours
of every day!

The benefits of such a program are, of course, obvious. First
of all, the classroom shortage will immediately disappear be-
cause all the dormitories can be converted into classrooms.
Second, the teacher shortage will immediately disappear because
all the night watchmen can be put to work teaching calculus
and Middle English poetry. And finally, overcrowding will
immediately disappear because everyone will quit school.

Any further questions?

RFit LS

© 1961 Max Shulman
+ * *

Yes, one further question: Have you tried Marlboro’s newest
partner in pleasure—the unfiltered, king-size Philip Morris
Commander? If not, by all means come aboard. You’ll be
glad you did.

 

 

 

 
 

 

mie

FRIDAY
Edition

Che King-tum Phi

Washington and Lee Semi-Weekly Newspaper

FRIDAY
Edition

 

Volume LXI

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA, MARCH 24, 1961

Number 45

 

 

BENNY GOODM

 

In VMI Fieldhouse

 

Miss Virginia, Huff
At Spring Sport Show

The Lexington-Rockbridge Junior
Chamber of Commerce will sponsor
its first annual Valley Youth Fit-
ness and Sports Show at the VMI
fieldhouse on April 7-8. At a busi-
ness meeting Wednesday night, Mr.
Hugh Slusser, President of the Jay-
cees, stated that this would be “the
biggest show of its type ever to
take place in the Shenandoah Val-
ley, possibly in the state.”

The purpose of the show is to
promote athletic interest and physi-
cal fitness in people of all ages. The
grand scale on which this spectacu-
lar was originally planned is being
realized becaused of the concentrated
efforts of the Jaycees. The program
of events is long and varied; it
contains “something for everyone”
and includes many topics of direct
interest to Washington and Lee stu-
dents.

Ray Robrecht, intermediate law
student and 1959 Golden Gloves
Champion, will box Saturday night.
At the present, Ray has a 9-0 rec-
ord is is trying for his tenth win
tonight.

“Twenty girls in leotards,” to use
Jaycee Don Huffman’s phrase, will
perform a modern dance and ballet.
The dance group is from Sweet
Briar. There will be a fashion show
featuring sports and casual wear,

 

 

Miss Virginia, 1961

which will be modeled by local
beauties and members of the Vogue
Club from neighboring Southern
Seminary.

Assisting in the fashion show will
be Miss Virginia of 1961, Miss Cathy
Birch of Staunton, Va. She will
also give a twenty minute skit on
some item of sports interest. It has
been said that she will appear in
a baseball uniform.

W&L men will be featured in
other events. Hunter Tracht, a Beta,
and Spence McEvoy, a Phi Delt,
will give exhibitions on the trampo-
line. Two members of the Washing-
ton and Lee wrestling team will
demonstrate various wrestling holds.

Sam Huff, rugged all-American

 

and all all-Pro lineman of the New
York Giants will also appear at |

the Jaycee spectacular. He will be| |

present on both days to sign auto-
graphs and to assist in the drawings |
for the many door prizes which are |
to be given away. |

Further highlights of this many-
faceted show will include the ap-
pearance of Roger Webb and his
gymnastic team from U.Va.; an ex-
hibition by Curtis Weaver, expert
fly caster; a demonstration on the
fundamentals of skiing by Sepp
Kober; and discussions and demon-

(Continued on page 4)

 

Dr. Patton To Speak On Geology

Dr. John B. Patton, chairman
of the Indiana University department
of geology, will speak at Washington

 

Agelasto To Head UCA

By C. C. FLIPPEN
Staff Reporter

The University Christian Associa-
tion officers for the coming year were
elected in a regular meeting of the
UCA last night.

A Phi Psi junior from London
Bridge, Va., was elected to head
the UCA. He is Peter Agelasto who
held the office of chairman of com-
munity service in the UCA. Agelasto
replaces Malcolm Brownlee, a sen-
ior from Rockbridge Baths, Va.

Chosen to serve with the new
president were Arnold B. McKay,
a Phi Kap sophomore from Sand-
ston, Va. vice-president; and C.
Mark Whitehead, KA junior from
LaGrange, Ga., secretary. Keith A.
Carr, Beta sophomore from Chevy
Chase, Md., was re-elected treasur-
er of the group. McKay had pre-
viously served as chairman of wor-
ship. Ashley Wiltshire, a Delt soph-
omore from Richmond, Va., is the
outgoing secretary.

The newly elected officers will
serve throughout the entire 1961-62
session.

 

and Lee April 6 on “Geology and
World Affairs.”

The talk is scheduled for 8:15 p.m.
in duPont Auditorium. The pub-
lic is invited.

Dr. Patton will visit the campus
April 5-7 under the auspices of the
1961 Visiting Geological Scientists
Program of the American Geological
Institute. The program is being
sponsored “to improve the under-
standing of the geological sciences
on the campus and in the commun-
ity of the host institution.” The visit
chairman at Washington and Lee
is Dr. Edgar W. Spencer, head of
the department of geology.

Dr. Patton holds A.B., M.A., and
Ph.D. degrees from Indiana Univer-
sity. He is a member of the Associa-
tion of American State Geologists
and the Geological Society of Amer-
ica.

Two outstanding geologists have
appeared here in recent years under
similar programs. Dr. T. S. Lovering,
of the U.S. Geological Survey and
Mr. Raymond Moore of the Uni-
versity of Kansas both have visited
the campus.

“The American Geological Insti-
tute is a federation of scientific and
technical societies operating under
the National Academy of Sciences
to advance the science of geology
and to serve the needs of geological
scientists,” AGI officials say.

 

 

   
  
    

z

  

&
:

z

Benny

Goodman

 

SW MSFC Sells
Nearly All Seats
For April Show

Seventy-five per cent of the tickets
for Heads or Tails, the 1961
SWMSFC musical production, have
been sold, SWMSFC officials said
today.

The weekend of April 14-15 is
completely sold out, and the sales
of tickets for week-night per-
formances have hit 60 per cent.

The musical’s writer-director,
Steve Danzansky, says he believes
the show will show a profit, especial-
ly since the show is being presented
at Hollins and possibly at Randolph-
Macon. The profits from the show
will go to the Student War Memor-
ial Scholarship Fund.

After Spring vacation the price
of tickets will be raised to $2.50.

Enlightened Version

Heads or Tails is Danzansky’s en-
lightened version of Anstophanes
original play Lysistrata which was
written about 400 B.C. The revised
version, though retaining the same
theme as the original, that of the
women of Athens and Sparta going
on a chastity strike to prevent war
between the men of their two city-
states, is longer and more involved.
From the original half-hour play
Danzansky has created a lively two-
hour musical. Besides spooking sex,
the Danzansky show also brings to
mind, via the use of clever dialogue,
the ever-present North-South con-
flict—this one of course between
Athens and Sparta.

Good Rehearsals

Rehearsals are going well, the
director says, and the cast is very
enthusiastic about the show.

When asked his opinion of the
audience’s reaction to the numerous
cave scenes, a serious male member
of the cast replied, “Might as well
hit ’em where it hits home.”

Journalism School Begins
Series of Educational Films

“The Informer” a film directed by
John Ford, will be screened in the
Washington and Lee University
journalism lecture room at 7:30 p.m.
Monday, April 4.

The film is one of a series of
movies for students in the journal-
ism communications department’s
course on the motion picture med-
ium. The screening is open to the
public.

Other films to be offered during
the semester include “Window on
Canada” and “Filming of On the
Beach.” All films are instructional,
on the nature of the medium itself,

N TO PLAY AT SPRINGS

‘King of Swing’ Will Perform
For Formal Dance Friday Night

The signing of Benny Goodman
to play at the Spring Dance Set
on Friday night is now dependent
only on a phone call. It was stated
by his New York agents that there
was no reason why confirmation
should not come through late today,
according to Dance Board president
Jim Vann.

The concerts given by Benny
Goodman and his all-star Trio,
Quartet and Orchestra in Carnegie
Hall are renowned the world over.
It was Goodman who helped make
“swing” a household word in the
thirties.

Benny Goodman is one musician
who refuses to grow old. He has not
become a collector’s item, but has re-
mained as the greatest clarinetist in
the entertainment field. Because he
is the center of whatever band he
plays with, he demands and gets
technical perfection, and marks each
performance with the stamp of
“Goodman.”

Goodman’s great achievement was
that he freed jazz from the limita-
tions of a small, cliquish audience
and awakened an interest in this
very basic American art in a wide
public which had never been reached
by it before. This was proved by
the many spontaneous demonstra-
tions which followed his perform-

—sances in the thirties.

Dr. Allen Ragan

In Council Race

Dr. Allen E. Ragan, a W&L po-
litical science professor, has enter-
ed the race for election to the Lex-
ington Town Council.

Dr. Ragan, who teaches municipal
government among his courses, has
filed his entry for the elections which
will be held this June.

Six Seats Open

Dr. Ragan’s entry into the race
brings to five the number of men
who have filed their candidacy for
the six council seats. Of the  in-
cumbent councilmen, one has stated
he will not run in June, two have
said that they will run but have not
filed their candidacy, and two are
still uncommitted at this point.

A senior member of the Washing-
ton and Lee faculty, he has been
at W&L for 15 years.

A native of Kentucky, Dr. Ragan
came to Lexington from a teaching
position at Tuscalum College in
Greenville, Tenn.

Interested in Good Government

Dr. Ragan told the Ring-tum Phi
today that he wanted to enter the
race because “I’m interested in the
welfare and the good government
of Lexington.”

He said he had never been a mem-
ber of such a group, and that his
entry for the coming elections was
his first attempt at Lexington poli-
ties.

Dr. Ragan said that he filed his
application for election last Monday
with Harry Wright, the clerk of
Rockbridge County’s Circuit Court.

 

Four Juniors, Three Sophs
Invited To Join Fraternity
For Journalistic Excellence

Bob Diehl, president of the Wash-
ington and Lee Chapter of Sigma
Delta Chi announced today that nine
students have been asked to join
the nationcl-professional journalism
society.

Diehl, a SPE from Manheim, Pa.,
said that two seniors, four juniors,
and three sophomores have been
asked to join the fraternity.

He said that the following were
named to join: R. J. O’Brien from
Newport News and Robert Holley,
Jr., from Moorestown, N. J., both
seniors.

Juniors asked to join are Roy
Goodwin, a KA from Augusta, Ga.;
Michael P. Keating a PiKA from
Centreville, Md., Richard L. Kelley,
a Pi Phi from Towson, Md., and
Charles Via, a Kappa Sig from
Martinsville, Va.

The three sophomores are Bill
Bowen, a SAE from Brooklyn, N.

 

Y.; Clarence Renshaw, from Mt. Leb-

or illustrate notable periods and| anon, Pa., and Bob Holland, a

styles of films.

Lambda Chi from Richmond.

 

The now-famous Goodman ar-
rangements of popular tunes were
contrived with the aid of some of
the finest creative jazz talents avail-
able. The Goodman arrangements
of “Riding High,” “Always,” “St.
Louis Blues,” “Stompin’ at the Sa-
voy,” “Moonglow,” “One O’Clock

 

Jump,” and many others have estab-
lished for him an international fol-
lowing that has given the name of
Benny Goodman a unique place in
the world of jazz.

The Trio and Quartet which sky-
rocketed jazz to immortality—Harry
James, Lionel Hampton, Gene Kru-
pa, Teddy Wilson, Ziggy Elman, Jess
Stacy, Chris Griffin—has now divid-
ed into many segments. But the
stablizing influence which bound
these men all together—Benny
Goodman—has retained that same
greatness while adapting it to the
present decade’s tastes.

The appearance of Goodman at
the Friday night dance, which
has a “Shangri—La” theme, will
mark one of the most outstanding
highlights in the history of Wash-
ington and Lee social life. Bill
Outman, president of the Dance
Set, is centering the theme of the
dance around James Hilton’s famous
novel, Lost Horizon. The oriental
motif combined with the Goodman
jazz and idiom will set the 1961
Spring Dance apart as one of the
most unique ever held.

This year the schedule of the
Spring Dance Set has been changed
in an effort by Jim Vann to gain
more student interest in the dance
and concert. Last year Claude
Thornhill played for a Friday night
formal dance and Joni James gave
a concert on Saturday night sup-
ported by Thornhill’s band. The plan
this year is for a Saturday after-
noon concert given by an as yet un-
announced jazz group and Benny
Goodman’s performance Friday
night.

 

Unique Seminar Set

Dr. William R. Mueller, chairman
of the Department of English at
Goucher College, will be the speak-
er in Washington and Lee’s first
seminar in religion. The Seminar
which will be held on Tuesday and
Wednesday, April 4 and 5 will be
jointly sponsored by the English
and Religion Departments.

The theme of Dr. Mueller’s lec-
tures will be “Religion in Contem-
porary Literature.” During his visit
at Washington and Lee, he will de-

 

McPherson Will Lecture

Dr. Harry McPherson, General
Counsel for the Democratic Platform
Committee, will speak on “Regional-
ism and National Interest” Friday,
April 7 at 8:15 in duPont Auditor-
ium.

The announcement of Dr. Mc-
Pherson’s visit to the campus came
today from Dr. Marshall Fishwick,
professor of sociology at the uni-
versity.

On the Floor

The current activities of Dr. Mc-
Pherson keep him continuously on
the floor of the United States Senate,
and in frequent conferences with
Vice-President Lyndon Johnson and
the Democratic Majority Leader,

(Continued on page 4)

 

 

liver two evening addresses in du-
Pont auditorium. The topics for the
addresses will be “Literature of
Biblical Commitment” and Litera-
ture of Ultimate Concern.” Also Dr.
Mueller will meet several religion
classes and hold a special seminar
for English majors.

Dr. Mueller is currently Chairman
of the Department of English at
Goucher College, Baltimore, Md. In
the field of English Literature he
holds the A.B. degree from Prince-
ton and the M.A. and Ph.D. from
Harvard. He holds the M.A. in the
field of Religion from Union Theo-
logical Seminary, N.Y. Before taking
his present post at Goucher, Profes-
sor Mueller taught at Williams
College and the Women’s College of
the University of North Carolina.

He is the author of two books,
The Anatomy of Robert Burton’s
England, and The Prophetic Voice in
Modern Fiction, and the editor of a
third, That Soueraine Light: Essays
in Honor of Edmund Spenser, 1552-
1952.

Professor Mueller’s special in-
terest in the religious insights in
modern “secular” literature is based
upon his conviction that “much of
our ostensibly religious writing is
hardly worth the time of a person
seeking religious insights or aesthetic

» Satisfaction.”

Seg

 

Dr. William R. Mueller of Goucher College will deliver a series of seminar
lectures on “Religion in Contemporary Literature” April 3 and 4, The
lectures will be sponsored by the English and Religion Departments.
 

 

Page 2

Che Ring-tum Phi

Friday Edition

Member of Virginia Intercollegiate Press Association

Don’t Become A Statistic

The National Safety Council usually predicts the number
of persons that will lose their lives on our nation’s highways
during a given holiday period. Each Spring Vacation, they
estimate that between 300 and 350 people will lose their lives.

Publicized statistics and repeated appeals from the National

Safety Council have failed to

influence American motorists

to any great extent. The record of the fatalities and permanent-
ly maimed continue to soar out of proportion to the population
but quite in proportion to the almost suicidal “horsepower
race” that exists in the American automobile industry.

We only wish to bring into effect some serious thought
concerning the obligation that each of you holds in your hands
as you grip the wheel of a car while driving the big “20-hour
push, non-stop” to home, to the girl, or to the favorite vacation

spot.

Your judgment and discretion or the lack of same will have
far-reaching consequences of either uninterrupted happiness or
the setting for a grief-stricken tragedy. In either case, the net
result will affect you and your immediate family and also the
lives of many whom you have never considered.

Let’s hope no Washington and Lee student will be among
the toll figures for Spring 1961. Maybe Washington and Lee
will be lucky enough to have all of its students returning from

a happy holiday.

Incidentally, the idea that high speed will cut down on
travel time is pretty foolish. The only thing high speed will cut
down on is drivers and passengers.

The Friday Edition wishes each student a happy holiday,
and we hope that you will make it back safely to Lexington and
not to a hospital bed or funeral parlor.

—G. A.N.

 

The Executive Committee
Should Have Most Prestige

By MALCOLM BROWNLEE

Friday Columnist

I suppose it is impossible to hope
that the main weaknesses of our
student body elec-
tions will be cor-
rected anytime
soon. These cor-
rections would
mean the scrap-
ping of our pres-
ent political sys-
tem, which, of
course, no one
wants to scrap de-
spite its absurd-
ness.

But there is one
Change which I hope we can make.
This change would correct a con-
spicuous flaw in our voting system
and at the same time would let us
keep the party factions which are
so dear to us.

I refer to the fact that our dance-
set presidents are elected before our
class representatives to the Execu-
tive Committee. Thus some of those
who would serve most ably in our
student government are relegated to
positions of inferior importance.

It is true, of course, that the
dance-set presidents do a great deal

   

Brownlee

 

of work. But it is a type of work
that any good organization man can
do. It does not affect our campus

for more than one weekend, and] |

even then it does not greatly affect
it. Our dance sets are becoming less
and less popular, but our dance-set
presidents still hold four of the top
seven prestige positions on our cam-
pus.

Couple this with the obvious fact
that not all of the Executive Com-
mittee decisions are concerned with
cases that are either black or white.
The Honor System cannot be re-
duced to a set of rules which covers
every incident which might be in-
terpreted as a breach of honor. For
this reason the Executive Commit-
tee should be filled with men who
are capable of mature judgment.

I do not claim that the best of
such men are always chosen as
dance-set presidents, but often they
are. Our student governing body
should be considered the position of
most importance and of highest pres-
tige on our campus. That it is not is
an obvious weakness in our voting
system.

 

LETTERS TO THE EDITOR

March 17th
To the Editor:

It’s almost exciting to at last read
conservative views in a_ college
newspaper! Very infrequently I run
across a letter to the editor, or—
even more infrequently —a feature
article that voices any degree of con-
servative libertarian ideas. But these
few voices—which are usually quite
articulate, too—are worth the wait-
ing.

To be specific, I enjoyed immense-
ly reading the Ring-tum Phi’s edi-
torial, coverage, and features on
Senator Barry Goldwater's visit to
your campus a few weeks ago. And
although there were several qualifi-
cations and reservations in that cov-
erage concerning Goldwater and his
(and my) brand of conservatism, I
can’t tell you what a pleasure it was
to see them stated rationally, intel-
ligently, and constructively.

If it’s one thing I’m sick of, it’s
this typical-typical holier-than-thou
self-righteousness which stereotypes
the majority of college editors. Their

 

protests and their agreements con-
form—to the letter—to the moth-
eaten mold from which they are
pressed. These young men and wo-
men inherit, and thus fail to create,
most of their ideas, patterns of
thought, and phraseology.

To understand what I’m talking
about, pick up any college news-
paper and glance over the editorial
page. The same hackneyed phrases
and ideas are dragged out concern-
ing the standard political scapegoats:
HUAC, Peace Corps, sit-ins, etc.,
etc. Are there no other areas of po-
litical, social, and economic concern
here and abroad? Or are there even
any new ideas or even protests con-
cerning these raging issues?

Politics should be of interest
and concern to all students; so
concern to all students; so shouldn’t
this mean we form a philosophy that
is individual to us, and that incorpor-
ates many questions and often con-
flicting solutions? I just wish I
could discover an original editorial

(Continued on page 4)

 

THE RING-TUM PHI

RES IPSA LOQUITUR

 

By THORNS CRAVEN

Friday Columnist

Tomorrow is tomorrow is tomo-
rrow, and after that we'll leap in
our pretty pace from day to day.
This column writ-
ten for those of
us who are still
here on Friday,
but are just be-
ginning to attack
the pre-vacation
kegs in a rush of
anticipation. And
with the dawn
we'll all flee,
handovers includ-
ed, to the tropi-
eal clime of sun-
ny Florida—the ZBT’s answer to
Calfornia.

I had originally intended to make
this column a little guide book con-
cerning what-to-do while vacation-
ing in the sun. The thought got so
developed that I was even think-
ing of putting out a government
pamphlet entitled “1001 Ways To

   

Craven

Act As The

 

 

Have Fun in the Sun, and Looking
Cool All the While.” That would
sell, of course, for a quarter a copy;
obtainable from the Department of
the Intéffér, Washington 25,D.C. But
I got hung up at about number eight
hundred and forty-seven, or there-
abouts, and gave it up. And since
Warner Brothers has already shown
the way, and I’ve never been fur-
ther south than Jessup, Ga., I guess
it would have been neither original
nor authoritative. And, also, I’m go-
ing to New York, and my hand-
book wouldn’t have proved func-
tional there at all. So I guess every-
one will just have to have original
fun in the sun, and read the Col-
lege Town Shop ads on how to look
cool all the while.

But forsaking my project leaves
me without a column, and far be it
for me to let anyone go South for
ten days without carrying a few
laughs with them. Especially since
almost everyone is on a_ limited

 

budget.

So here are suggestions for get-
ting laughs before going to Florida,
and possibly for taking them all the
way.

First of all, leave right now. Call
up Dean Gilliam, tell him you can’t
wait a minute longer, and that the
whole university can go to ????. Re-
instatement only cost a couple of
dollars plus final absence probation,
and a good laugh is easily worth
that.

Now that you’ve servered your
connections with the university, and
have come back to pick up some
traveling tips, here they are: Since
you've probably already stocked
your car bar, and do doubt you’ve
learned how to operate a church
key (beer opener), I won’t go into
all that. I'll discuss, instead, sports
and games. Cow poker is good, but
like games of similar nature, is
limited. You have to know what a
cow is. Another good one is count-

 

pring Vacation Advice Given:
Ivy-Leaguers Would

ing up state license plates until
you’ve seen one from every state.
Close your eyes on the way out of
town so you won’t get too far ahead
too quickly on this one.

The best games, though, have two
purposes, these being a test of skill
and a useful function. A good be-
ginners game in this category is
throwing beer cans at signs. This
gets rid of trash while improving
marksmanship. A more advanced
version (for people with more skill
and more expensive trash) is throw-
ing whiskey bottles at pedestrians.
Devise your own scoring system.

Of course the best games come
when you hit Florida, as you all
have seen in the flicks. So as a
parting word I advise you all to say
that you’re an Ivy Leaguer, rape
some girl, and she be run down by
a capitalist as she wanders about
on the Florida Freeway in complete
disillusion after finding out you’re
really from W&L. Have fun gang.

 

By ROBERT C. KETCHAM
Friday Columnist

Operation Abolition, a 45-minute
movie sponsored by the House Un-
American Activities Committee, has
now been seen by
approximately 10
million people ac-
cording to com-
mittee chairman
Francis Walter.

This film is an
edited short sold
by Washington
Viedo Produc-
tions, Ine. for $100
a print. The film
was. taken off
the demonstra-
tions and hearing while the commit-
tee met in the historic session of
May 12-14, 1960, in San Francisco.
The HUAC subpoenaed all the films
from two TV studios ostensibly for
its own files. However, the film was
delivered to the above mentioned
commercial studio for what the film
company has termed a “speculative
venture.”

aa
4

;

2

q

    

Ketcham

Lewis Narrates

A young man with a familiar
name, Fulton Lewis, III, did the
narration of the film and travels
with it to college campuses where it
is to be shown. The sound track
makes the dispassionate observer a
participant as emotional words are
tossed to the viewers: “revolution,”

Two From W&L
Attend Session

Dean of the College William W.
Pusey, III, and American History
Professor A. W. Moger will attend
a nationwide “Conference on Out-
standing Students in Liberal Arts
Colleges.” The Conference will be
held at Buck Hill Falls, Pa., March
26-29.

The purpose of the conference is
to discuss ways and means of pro-
viding the best possible education for
college students who have outstand-
ing intellectual abilities. The confer-
ence is designed for independent
colleges with enrollments under
2,000. Fifty institutions have been
invited to attend.

The attempt to provide improved
facilities for able students in the in-
dependent-arts colleges is an out-
growth of a similar study and pro-
gram carried on in the universities.

 

The attendance of the Dean and
Mr. Moger at the conference is
considered a step in line with the
“New Era” at Washington and Lee.

 

ik

“hostilities,” “dupes,
“battleground,” “mob.”

Says the committee of the film:
(it) “exposes communism’s avowed
objective of destroying the Com-
mittee on Un-American Activities
and our Nation’s entire security pro-
gram.” Also strong in their endorse-
ment have been the FBI’s J. Edgar
Hoover, the National Review and
several conservative Baptist groups.

Many Doubts

Many queries and doubts as to
the truthfulness and thoroughness of
the film have been raised notwith-
standing. After making its own study
of events, the National Council of
Churches issued this statement to
its ministers: “not to exhibit the film
unless a full and fair presentation”
is made of all the facts.

The San Francisco police who
also endorse the film have none-
theless conceded that it occasionally
scrambles sequences and errs in one
or two places. Another endorser,
William Wheeler, the committee’s
own investigator, admitted of some
error in a taped television debate in
Los Angeles:

Student

Student: “I am basing my discus-
sion on the fact that the film does
have inaccuracies, does have distor-
tions.”

Wheeler: “All right, we have ad-
mitted that. Let’s get on to another
subject.”

Student: “You have admitted that,
Mr. Wheeler?”

Wheeler: “Certainly.”

In admitting of some factual er-
ror the committee chairman Walter
insisted that “it’s unfortunate, but
honest and decidedly minor.”

Che Ring-tum Phi
Friday Edition

The Ring-tum Phi is published Tues-
day and Friday during the college year.
It is printed by the Journalism Labor-
atory Press, Washington and Lee Uni-
versity. The mailing address is Box
899. Lexington, Va.

Entered ag second class matter Sep-
tember 20, 1946 at the Post Office, Lex-
ington, Va., under the act of March
8, 1878.

National Advertising Representative
The National Advertisers Service, Inc..
420 Madison Ave., New York, N.Y
Editor-in-Chief. ...Nathan Simpson
Business Managet.............. Huntley Biggs

Editorial Board
Managing Editor................ George Honts
Assistant Managing Editor............000+
sapbeeioee earruidenediedesiseees ae Roy Goodwin

” 6

elite corps,”

 

 

  
   
 

UOTE BR viscsssssicssiscianes Andy Nea
Sports Editor. John Allgood
Copy Editor... .Tom Jordan
Assistant Copy Editor. ..Dick Heard
Photography Editor................ Bill Bowen

Advertising Manager......E£dward Holmes
Circulation Manager .Peter Agelesto
Office Manager............ ceFall

  

Don

 

 

 

      

fae EI / D0 YOU ALWAYS
DRAG THAT BLANKET
AROUND BEHIND

ASA MATTER OF FACT, I DO!
I SUPPOSE YOU'RE GONNA
START IN ON ME NOW!

 

 

 

NO, I THINK IT$ A GOOD
IDEA... MEAN, IF IT MAKES
YOU FEEL MORE SECURE, THEN
YOU SHOULD CARRY IT WITH YOU!

i>

       

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ik

Set up in 1947, the HUAC came
into its own during the McCarthy
era. It has attempted to keep its
power and influence as great as it
was in that period. The committee
has apparently been successful, this
year’s vote to keep the committee
was 412-6 and the group got the
money requested with no strings
attached.

Speculative Venture

Operation Abolition has been
highly successful as a “speculative
venture.” Nor has it been less re-
warding for the Committee in that
prints of the film are booked months
in advance by Army camps, Ameri-
can Legion posts, political meetings.

When a corporation buys this film
it is guilty of nothing worse than
taking the stockholders money and
using time which could be more
profitably utilized in a coffee break.

When a print is purchased by a
Federal Agency it is wasting tax-
payers’ money for the improper pur-
pose of becoming an advertising
agency for the HUAC.

 

‘Operation Abolition’ Is A Film
Which Should Be Shown Here

1

Present at W&L

It would be worthwhile to have
this film shown on campus, however,
and I would like to propose that it
be done. The School of Journalism
which gives courses in both films
and propaganda should welcome the
opportunity to bring this officially
endorsed indictment to Lexington.

The menace of Communism as es-
poused by present day Marxists is
a national threat. But to give a com-
mittee the power and prestige which
it is enjoying at the present is equal-
ly dangerous. Dangerous because
the committee furthers its own ends
by blunt accusations and distortions
of the very thing this nation’s peo-
ple do fear.

Propaganda Stunt

To bring the film to campus would
give students a chance to evaluate
the film for what it is, a propaganda
stunt promoted by an agency of our
government. There is much more to
the film than is on its face; but to
be fairly judged the film and the
facts must be presented.

 

Examination Schedule
May 20, 1961 through May 30, 1961

It is the responsibility of each student to know the time and place of
meeting of each of his examinations. The hours for examinations are 9:00-
12:00 and 2:00-5:00. Any student more than five minutes late must present
a satisfactory reason for his lateness to be allowed to take the examination.

The ommission by a student of any regular examination causes him to for-
feit his place in the class and to receive grade F for the semester, unless he is
excused for reasons deemed sufficient by the Dean and the instructor concerned.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

AFTERNOON—2:00 P.M.
MORNING—9:00 A.M. ; ae
DAY Stockh Munminations Consolidated Examinations
All sections of:
20 May Classes at Block G—M.W-F.| Accounting 102
Saturday 11:10 except those otherwise| Biology 2, Chemistry 2
scheduled. Geology, 2, Physics 2
22 May Classes at Block I—M.WF.| Military Training 2, 4, 6, 8
Monday 12:05 except those otherwise
scheduled.
23 May ~ | Classes at Block B—T.TS. Classes at Block J—T.TS.
Tuesday 8:25 except those otherwise | 12:05 except those otherwise
scheduled. scheduled.
Religion 104
24 May Classes at Block D—T.T\S.| French 2, 152, 162, 202
Wednesday | 9:20 except those otherwise| German 2, 12, 152
scheduled. Spanish 2, 152, 162, 202
25 May Classes at Block F—T.TS. Economics 102
Thursday 10:15 except those otherwise} English 2, 154
scheduled.
26 May Classes at Block H—T.TSS. ‘Political Science 102
Friday 11:10 except those otherwise
scheduled.
27 May Classes at Block A—M.WF.| History 106
Saturday 8:25 except those otherwise| Latin 2
scheduled. Mathematics 2, 6, 12, 152
29 May Classes at Block C—M.W-F.| English 152
Monday 9:20 except those otherwise | History 2
scheduled.
30 May Classes at Block E—M.W-F.| History 108
Tuesday 10:15 except those otherwise
scheduled.

 

 

 
 

Page 3

 

Maryland Rips
Generals, 22-4
In Lacrosse

Maryland’s Terrapins toyed with W&L’s lacrosse team
for fifteen minutes Thursday before lowering the boom and

racing to a 22-4 victory.

The Terps, one of the country’s*

top ten lacrosse teams, scored three
goals in the game’s first six min-
utes. Each score came with W&L
one man short. Then they let the
Generals nearly catch up.

Led by Ray Gordon and Ray
Miller, the Generals bounced back
to close the Maryland gap to 3-2
with 0:55 left in the first period.

Gordon tallied the first General
goal as he weaved around the right
side of the Maryland goal and fired
a low shot into the nets.

Miller followed Gordon’s goal two
minutes later with a 10-yard shot
from the left side.

Until two minutes before Gordon
scored his goal, Washington and
Lee had not had the ball in its
own territory. Maryland had com-
pletely controlled the play and had
muffed several scoring chances.

In the second period, the Ter-
rapins caught fire as they pounded
the Generals’ nets for six tallies.
Buddy Breadmore collected two
of those six after scoring two of
the Terp’s first period goals.
Breadmore added his final tally in
the third period.

Three times during the game,
Maryland caught the W&L defense
napping as they scored two goals
within ten seconds of each other.

Breadmore was in on the quick
goal scoring sprees twice. He teamed
with Fritz Waider to score goals
within a six second lapse in the
second period and paired up with
Jack Sadler in the third period for
two goals within eight seconds.

In the final period, John Kent
and Jim Herrill fired goals within
a ten second period.

Following Breadmore in the Mary-
land scoring were Waidner and Ray
Altman with three goals each; Walt

 

 

Durigg, Herril and Paul Johnson
with two goals each.
Gordon and Miller teamed up
again to score W&L’s third and
(Continued on page 4)

   

‘Somebody Stop Him,’ Cries W@L Goalie Tinley As Maryland’s Kent Drives For Score

CARPENTER TO START ON MOUND

 

Baseballers Open Trip At Elon College This Saturday

Washington and Lee’s baseball
team leaves early tomorrow morn-
ing on its annual spring training
tour. This year’s trip has the Gen-
erals playing six games in eight
days, against three college teams
and one of the best service teams in
the country, the Fort Gordon (Ga.)
Signalaires.

The Generals open the tour to-
morrow at Elon (N. C.) College. Last
year they lost to Elon 4-3 in ten
innings. Leading 2-1 in the home
eighth, the Generals got a bad break

 

Sports Schedule

Sporting events scheduled for
W&L teams in the coming week in-
clude:

Lacrosse
Mar. 28—Williams ......Baltimore, Md.
ROT 1 OG. aes sscsssccsccsasscsssese Away
April 5—Colgate ...cscsssssssssisseseeees Home
Track

April 10—E. Carolina ....
April 13—Richmond
April 20—Hampden-Sydney ....Home |

 

Tennis
April 5—Colgatee.cccccscssscsssssssesses. Home
April 8—Lynchburg.................04 Away
April 10—W. Va............... Hot Springs

April 14—G. Washington............ Home
April 17—Duke

 

Swimmers Johnson, Gonsoulin

Capture First, Second Places

Washington and Lee swimmers Sidney Johnson and Henry
Gonsoulin captured a first and a second, respectively, in the

first Virginia AAU Swim Meet last Saturday at Richmond.

 

Johnson, a sophomore, came in*®

first in the 200-yard butterfly with
a 2:45. He finished fifth in the 200-
yard breaststroke with 2:48. Winning
time in the breaststroke was 2:40.

Phi Psi Is First
InI-M Standings

Phi Kappa Psi pushed into the
lead in the intramural standings this
week after placing third in bowl-
ing and first in wrestling.

PiKA, which came in seventh in
bowling and ninth in wrestling, rose
from third to second. Phi Delta
Theta fell from first to third.

PKP has 807 1/2 points to date
while PiKA has 778 1/2 points, and
PDT has 766 points,

Sigma Nu is in fourth with 760 1/2
Delta Tau Delta, fifth, 752; SAE,
sixth, 746 1/2; Phi Gams, seventh,
739 1/2; Betas, eighth, 723, Pi Phi,
ninth, 694; and Phi Kappa Sigma,
tenth, 688.

In the bowling playoffs, Law fin-
ished first; Pi Phi, second; Phi Psi,
third; Phi Kappa Sigma, fourth; Sig-
ma Nu, fifth; Non Fraternity, sixth;
PiKA, seventh; and Betas, eighth.

In wrestling following Phi Psi,
were Phi Gams, second; Sigma Nu,
third; SPE, fourth; Kappa Sigma,
fifth; DU, sixth; Phi Delts, seventh;
and Pi Phi, eighth.

The standings now include the
results of golf, tennis, track, swim-
ming, turkey trot, football, handball,
wrestling, bowling, and basketball,

 

 

|

Gonsoulin, a senior, was a dist-
ant second in the 400-yard free-
style. He swam a 4:47 while the
winner Dick Herr of William and
Mary turned in a 4:33. In the 200-
yard freestyle, Petersburg Y’s Stu
Bocynski edged Gonsoulin for
third, 2:13.5 to 2:21.4.

Coach Norris Eastman was very
pleased with Johnson and Gonsou-
lin’s showings.

“Next year I plan to take up a few
more boys and try to win the meet,”
Eastman said.

Coach Eastman has not received
the official team scores, but he said
that Washington and Lee did well
although it entered only two men.

This was the first year that Vir-
ginia has held an AAU swimming
meet. Eastman said this year’s meet
was very successful and that the
meet has potential of growing into a
top notch annual affair.

 

 

Traditional
W&L BLAZER

With University Crest
and Buttons

The
COLLEGE TOWN
Shop
Student Charge Accounts

Welcomed

 

 

 

 

7
©0000 SOOOOOOOSOOSHHEHHHHOHHOSHOHEHHHOEHSEEEEEEEEE

DIXON’S

ESSO SERVICE CENTER
ROUTE 60 EAST IN LEXINGTON
Across from the White Top Resturant
HO 3-4214

Wash, Grease, Lube, Road Service

Charge Accounts Welcome

 

when a routine ground ball hit a
stone and bounded over the head of
second baseman Park Gilmore, en-
abling Elon to tie the score and
then go ahead 3-2. Although the
Generals tied the game in the ninth,
back to back triples in the tenth
gave Elon the win, and handed Roy
Carpenter the first of four one-run
defeats.

Phil Sharp was scheduled to
start Friday against Dartmouth,
so Carpenter can pitch Saturday’s
game, due both to his experience
and to a desire to avenge last
year’s setback.

 

After three games at Fort Gordon,
the Generals travel to Greenville,
N. C. to take on the Pirates of East
Carolina, a team coach Joe Lyles
considers to be one of the better
hitting ball clubs in the South. Last
year the Generals, with Carpenter
again on the mound, were shut out
7-0 by the Pirates despite some
stellar defensive play by centerfield-
er Robin Wood.

The Generals finish up the spring
trip this year against North Caro-
lina State, co-holder of last year’s
ACC title.

The trip is expected to provide

 

Golfers In Tournament

A pril 1-2 At Greenbrier

Washington and Lee University’s
golf team, headed by defending

‘medalist Jack Vardaman, will play
| host April 1-2 in the annual Green-

brier Collegiate Tournament at
White Sulphur Springs, W. Va.
Vardaman, a junior from Anniston,
Ala., finished two strokes ahead of
the field with a 149 in last year’s
tournament. He is also the defending
Virginia collegiate champion.

The two-day tournament on the
world-known Greenbrier fairways
is the early-season highlight of a
nine-match W&L schedule.

The Generals meet Massachusetts

Institute of Technology here April
5 in their opening dual match.

Other teams participating in the
Greenbrier Tournament are Colgate,
Virginia, Davidson, George Washing-
ton, West Virginia, Dennison, and
Ohio University. Ohio has won the
tournament for the past two years.

Washington and Lee will have
an inexperienced team this year
with only two lettermen, Varda-
man and Grantham Couch, return-

ing from last year’s club.

Joining Vardaman and Couch on
the W&L squad are sophomores

LOSOSSOSSSS EOS OS STS EOSS

Baker
Ford Sales

@

BETTER DEALS

CLEARANCE
of lot for 1961 Models

 

NEW AND
USED CARS

Highway 60 East

ll la a ee ee

4
‘
4
%
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
‘
“
‘
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4

 

slo ofo feo oe ste ole oe ate odes ofe este oleate ofe oe ote oe oteafeote
©02eeeeeeOSeeeoedeeeeees

SPENCER

General Tire
536 E. Nelson Street

Best in Tires
GENERAL

Best in Recapping
Kraft Tread

New and Used Tires
FOR COMPACT CARS

acti cl ti ik et tt ts i ee se he ee te i i ee

 

|

Ronnie Stewart and Steve Henry,
junior Willie Lee, and freshman
Jack Neal.

Last year the Generals had a
4-2-2 record and finished second in
the state tournament. But Coach
E. P. “Cy” Twombly thinks this
year’s team should better that mark
“because of better depth and bal-
ance.”

The fall schedule:

April 5—Massachusetts Institute of
Technology, home; April 10— West
Virginia at Hot Springs, Va.; April
13—Lynchburg, home; April 18—
Hampden-Sydney, home; April 20,
Richmond, away; April 25—William
and Mary, home; April 26—Roanoke,
away; May 1—State Intercollegiate
Tournament, Hot Springs, Va.; May
4—George Washington, away; May
9—Randolph-Macon, home.

 

how to be roaring in your twenties

a good testing ground for the 21; Warmer weather will also aid the

squad members who are making the |
trip. Not only will the veterans be
able to work together on timing
and defense, but the coach will also
be able to take a longer look at
the freshmen upon whom he depends
so heavily for bench strength. |

Generals in working out the kinks
in muscles cramped by the rain and
wind here at home.

With a more experienced squad
this year, and a deeper mound staff,
the Generals should have better luck
than they had on last year’s team.

 

Trackmen Seek Second Scalp
Against Wake Forest Today

After Washington and Lee

blasted High Point (N. C.)

College, 104-36, Coach Norm Lord did a strange thing.

 

He went into the dressing room®
and hung a piece of tape on the
blackboad. Over the tape he wrote—
“Scalp number one.”

Turning around Lord - said,
“That’s scalp number one. There’s
only seven more to go.” Last year
W&L had a 7-0 season. This year
could be undefeated season num-
ber two.

The Generals go after that prized
scalp number two today when they
tackle the Atlantic Coast Confer-
ence’s Wake Forest Deacons at
Winston-Salem.

The meet marks the first meeting
between Wake Forest, perennially
the worst track team in the Atlantic
Coast Conference, and Washington
and Lee.

 

 

TOLLEY’S PHARMACY

Prescriptions Filled
Immediately

PURCHASE DRUGS
HO 3-2211

 

 

 

    

Flappers positively flip over lids groomed with ‘Vaseline’ Hair
Tonic. It’s the only hair tonic specially made to use with water.
Water evaporates — robs your hair of grooming oils. Alcohol
and cream tonics evaporate too. But ‘Vaseline’ Hair Tonic
won't evaporate—it’s 100% pure light grooming oil that re-
places the oil water removes. So don’t be the varsity drag—
use ‘Vaseline’ Hair Tonic on your hair — and oh, you kid!

it’s clear * ww
it’s clean...it’s

Heading the 33-man Washington
and Lee squad, which will travel to
Winston-Salem, are captain Jim
Hickey, king of the W&L sprinters;
freshman Skip Essex, one of the
most promising runners at W&L in
several years; Mike Shank, who is
fast becoming a first-rate miler; and
freshman Robin Kell, high jump and
hop, step and jump artist.

After the spring break, Washing-
ton and Lee meets East Carolina
College here April 10.

 

 

eeeeeseeoeeesesoooeoeeeeee
e
¢Dodge and Dodge Dart
and Lancer
America’s First Fine
ECONOMY CAR
*

Rockbridge Motor Co.
INC,

Phone HObart 3-3146

Vaseline

HAIR

IM

aol

 

 

VASELINE HAIR TONIC

‘VAGELINE’ 1S A REGISTERED TRADEMARK OF CHESEBROUGH-POND'S ING,
 

Page 4

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

Jaycees Plan
Sports Festival

(Continued from page 1)

strations on hunting, fishing, and
skin diving.

Fencing, track, baseball, judo, soc-
cer, and football will be represented.
The Rockbridge Recreation Center
will stock an artificial fish pond
with real trout; a prize will be
awarded to the child catching the
largest fish during the course of
the weekend. The list of door prizes,
worth well over $500 in all, will
include cameras, binoculars, and a
variety of the finest sports equip-
ment.

In keeping with their tradition of
community service, the Jaycees in-
tend to award trophies to outstand-
high school students in the Group
I-B Valley League. These awards
are based on achievement in schol-
arship, leadership, character, citizen-
ship, and sports.

The weekend will begin with a
parade at 5 p.m. Friday, April 7.
The parade will move through town
to the VMI fieldhouse and will fea-
ture Miss Virginia and a host of high
school bands.

 

Dr. McPherson Speaking
April 7 On ‘Regionalism’
(Continued from page 1)

Sen. Mike Mansfield of Montana.
Prior to becoming the Democratic
Counsel, Dr. McPherson was a pro-
fessor at the University of Texas.

He assumed his present duties
while Lyndon Johnson was a Sen-
ator from Texas and the majority
leader in the upper house. He was
active throughout the 1960 presiden-
tial campaign.

Interest in Regionalism

One of Dr. McPherson’s special
interests is regionalism, along with
the political scene. He has publish-
ed numerous articles and made many
speeches on the theme of regional-
ism. He has studied Southern rheto-
ric and is currently doing a history
of Southern oratory in the 19th and
20th Centuries.

While in Lexington, Dr. McPher-
son will appear in several classes
along with giving his public lecture
on Friday evening. The visit is being
sponsored by the American Studies
department.

 

 

 

 

FRL-SAT.

   
    
  
  
 
 

Olll OO lO OOo oa

CECILB.DEMILLE'S

PRODUCTION

THE TEN
COMMANDME

& PARAMOUNT PICTURE
TECHNICOLOR®

_____ VISTAVISION”

 

 

 

 

 

 

ofp oe ole ole oe fe ole fe fe oe of ole le ole ole oe le ok ele ole ole ole
CALL BY NUMBER
and Save Time
LEXINGTON
TELEPHONE CoO.

0000000000000 0 00000008

OF oe oe fe nls skool ale efe feeds of
Me eoleetete oh eee ob

\

 

TETLOW
TV Service

221 S. Main HO 3.2841

R-t-Phi Subscriptions

Many outstanding events will take
place during the Spring term on
the W&L campus. To mention only
a few: International Relations Week,
The Phi Beta Kappa assembly, ODK
selections, the SIPA convention, ten-
nis, lacrosse, baseball, intramural
events, and Spring and Final dances.
These and many other events are
covered by and preserved in the two
weekly editions of the Ring-tum
Phi.

Realizing how hard it is for us,
here at school, to keep those at home
informed, the Ring-tum Phi would
like to offer a special rate of $2.50
for the balance of the semester in
order that parents, friends, alumni
and any incoming freshmen may be
kept in closer contact with the
school.

We would encourage you to send
in your subscription as soon as pos-
sible in order that all the second
semester issues be sent. We will be
glad to include back issues as long
as they hold out. Everyone certainly
should spend 10 cents an issue to
keep his parents and others informed
on the school.

The attached form may be filled
out and mailed to Box 899, Lexing-
ton, Va., or it may be given to either

Philip Morris
Contest Opens

Philip Morris, Inc., will give a
Decca floor-model stereophonic pho-
nograph and a complete Keystone
8mm motion picture outfit to the
winners in the 1961 Brand Round-up
at Washington and Lee, Billy Martin
announced today.

April 3-May 3

The contest will run from April 3
until 2 p.m. on May 3. The stereo
will be given for the winning group
entry and the movie outfit for the
winning individual entry. The win-
ners must turn in the number of
empty cigarette packages worth the
highest number of points. Philip
Morris regulars and Marlboro pack-
ages are worth one point. Parliament
and Alpine packages gather five
points; and the new Commanders
are worth 10 points.

Entire Package

The entire package must be turn-
ed in. The same packages may not
be entered in both categories. The
contest is limited to Washington and
Lee students only.

Entries must be registered as
group or individual and turned in

 

 

 

Huntley Biggs—SAE or Pete Age-| on May 3 in the basement of the
lasto—Phi Kappa Psi. The payment Student Union by 2 p.m. Billy Mar-
of $2.50 may be made now or a/| tin, Philip Morris representative on
bill could be sent to your parents. | campus will be the judge for the
contest.

Prizes will be displayed at the
AE sii esc eeee College Town Shop.
RGGI oiscansicaree ‘

 

 

 

 

 

“Sophian” Cites R-t Phi

For Conservative Views
(Continued from page 2)

among so many of these journalists
who use the same thoughts and ideas
and go on twisting the same facts
around to please themselves.

Of course, there are extremists on
both sides, but sometimes I prefer
originality in the extreme to the
predominant conformism and dull
commonplace of worn-out protest
editorials.

Sincerely,

Joy Daniels
Exchange Editor
The Sophian
Northhampton, Mass.

 

Maryland Dumps W&L

(Continued from page 3)
fourth goals in the third period.
For the second time Gordon scored
coming around the right side of
the net. Miller rounded out the W&L
scoring with a short slap near the
end of the period.

 

Maryland 3 6 8 5—22
Wé&L 202 0O—4
Seeqeutesessenneeeeerers

oe
° TEXACO °
: Super Service Station :
: Lexington, Virginia °
° Corner Main and Nelson °

CSCCHHOHOSSSOOSOSOOOSSESHOY
ee le a ee le i ee ee i

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Light Play Next for Troubs

The Troubadour Theatre will con-
clude its season of modern European
plays with a comedy to be selected
from the works of Anton Chekov
or Bernard Shaw.

The works under consideration are
Chekov’s farce “The Marriage Pro-
posal” and Shaw’s series of comic
one-act plays based on Napoleon’s
life entitled “The Man of Destiny.”

These plays were chosen to rep-
resent the lighter side of European
drama, and to contrast with the
“heavy” Pirandello work, “Henry
IV,” which recently concluded a
highly successful run. ‘The Spring
production will be presented during
the first week in May. .

Troubadour director Dr. Cecil D.
Jones announced today that tryouts
for the spring play will be held in
duPont Hall on Tuesday, April 4,
from 7 to 10 p.m.,

 

 

It’s Good usiness

To Do usiness
with IERER’S

PHARMACY

 

 

 

Hamric and Sheridan
JEWELERS

Watch and Jewelry Repair
Hand Engraving and Class Rings

HO 3-2022 ©

 

 

 

 

George Peters Heads Slate
Of New Officers For SPE’s

Washington and Lee’s youngest
fraternity recently elected officers.

Chosen president of Sigma Phi
Epsilon was George Peters, a junior
from Gardens, Pa. He replaces Clint
Anderson of Lexington, Va.

Other officers elected by SPE are
Jack Cover, a sophomore from Cin-
cinnati, Ohio, vice-president; Gene
Brown, a sophomore from Tulsa,
Oklahoma, secretary; Jerry Cravens,
a freshman from Bartlesville, Okla.,
treasurer; and Pete Bennett, a junior
from Clearwater, Fla., historian.

The old officers were Don McClure,
Jack Gant, and Palmer Partington.
Any fraternity which has elected of-
ficers and wishes to have them
placed in the Ring-tum Phi call
HO 3-3314 or drop them by the uni-
versity print shop.

 

eee eee eee HON ree

%

*

= ROBERT E. LEE
: BARBERSHOP

* David M. Moore

* Proprietor

~

5

 

ae alee hese oe oe ole se ohare oe eee ole oe oe reo

 

;
:
z
;
%
$
:

NEW TOWN INN
Short Orders—Lunches
Catering to Students

Mere forte the oheoheateege
PM eet

%
He oherferde ode oferde ole rhe nkerderteoferde ode ole ole ode ode ole ole obo stort

 

 

 

 

 

 

v eeeeoeeceooeooooeocoeooeeeoesoesseeeoceseseeeesseoeseeeeeeees
THE DUTCH INN : R. L. Hess and Bro. {8 FOR ROOM RESERVATIONS—CALL HO 3-2151 °
For Reservation Call JEWELERS ° LEXINGTON MOTEL °
‘caused cakee ae MRS. KATHERINE ADAMS Lexington, Virginia ° Large Rooms—U. S. 11 By-Pass South °
HO 3-3433 HO 3-2833 ; Free TV—Phones—Continental Breakfast :
Payrnierits Camby ssssscscossssscasscassnveesonseseerize soeodeogeogeogeofeobeogentententeogeofeogeogecgesgecteotestestestene | § Only Motel in corporate limits of Lexington ;
Se | ey | 0000000000 00000000SSOHSOOOHODOSHTOOHOCHEHODESOEOSOS
Or send bill to: , ,
Waggy’s Jewelers 1\ (7
CORONER R EERE EERE EEE REE EERE SERRE EEE E EEE EEESESESEESESOR REESE ESESS 35 S ad Street HICKMAN’S ESSO y
; : q
<stisiciai moececaaalesadnaieiaa ann ilia Phone HO 3-4121 South Main Street THE COLLEGE IN N
( HO 3-2024
THE HOME OF .
} ee } The Best Food in Town
ia tattle ti ti i iit cc J © Pita iailiaisiaciniitiatie tee iia tad ad}
ND? ; ;
BROWN’S American and Italian
CLEANING FOREIGN CARS AND STUDEBAKER LARKS Cotman tw the Sendents; Faculty.
WORKS OUR SPECIALTY and Towns People
: Expert Motor Work Open 8:00 a.m.—8:00 p.m.
We Coll for ond } atver MAIN STREET MOBIL STATION OPEN SUNDAYS
N 4)

 

 

 

 

 

 

Student agents in the

 

dormitory and fraternities
HO 3-2013 14 Randolph St.

 

 

 

 

HOME
IS ONLY
MINUTES
AWAY

ON
PIEDMONT

 

 

 

Lexington
Laundro Matic

209 S. Main
*

HAND IRONED
SHIRTS

Dry Cleaning

Service

for your convenience

 

RLINES

ks

Al

t= =— -

Plan to fly
home soon on
Piedmont Airlines.
Piedmont serves
colleges, prep-schools
and home towns all
across the top

MARKS THE RE
of the South . oo

PIEDMONT
AIRLINES

serves you better

call Piedmont or your
Travel Agent.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

AREYTON RING

Here’s one filter cigarette that’s really different!

The difference is this: Tareyton’s Dual Filter gives you a
unique inner filter of ACTIVATED CHARCOAL, definitely proved to
make the taste of a cigarette mild and smooth. It works together with
a pure white outer filter—to balance the flavor elements in the smoke.

Tareyton delivers—and you enjoy—the best taste of the best tobaccos.

Pure white outer filter

Dune FILTER LAV OCWON cE

 

  

is our middle name. Oatrc
FRIDAY
Edition

Che Ring-tum Phi

Washington and Lee Semi-Weekly Newspaper

FRIDAY
Edition

 

Volume LXI

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA, APRIL 7, 1961

Number 46

 

 

 

Opens Tonight

Students Are Featured
In Valley Sports Show

The Lexington-Rockbridge Coun-
ty Junior Chamber of Commerce’s
Valley Youth Fitness and Sports
Show begins today and runs through
tomorrow at the V.M.I. Fieldhouse.

Kicking off the show will be a
parade starting from the Town Rec-
reation Field at 6 p.m. this evening.
Marching will be high school band
units, floats, and most of the sports
celebrities in the show.

As the parade reaches the down-
town area Sam Huff, Miss Virginia,
Art Levin and the other personali-
ties present will be met in front of
the Court House by Mayor Paul Hil-
stein and officially welcomed to
Lexington.

The show will feature over 35 ex-
hibits by leading sporting goods
manufacturers, showing almost ev-
erything new in the way of sports
equipment. Continuously running
throughout the show will be demon-
strations featuring experts in al-
most every sport known to modern
man. Many W&L students will take
part in the demonstrations of indi-
vidual and team sports.

Featured Saturday night in the
main boxing event will be Ray Ro-
brecht, a W&L law student who is
the Golden Gloves Middleweight
champion for the State of Virginia.
Ray is undefeated in ten fights.

$1200 in Door Prizes

Over $1200 in door prizes will be
given away during the two days of

 

Service Society

Elects Galef

Steve Galef, Dave Knight, and
Dave Montgomery were elected of-
ficers of the Student Service So-
ciety for the 1961-62 school year.

Steve Galef, ZBT rising senior
from White Plains, N. Y. was elected
president of the SSS succeeding Don
Pardington, senior Phi Gam. In ad-
dition, Dave Knight, Phi Delt rising
senior from Worchester, Mass., was
elected vice-president; and Dave
Montgomery, rising Delt junior
from Richmond was elected secre-
tary-treasurer.

In other business, the SSS ap-
pointed Pearce Hardwick, Beta ris-
ing senior from Akron, Ohio, as Edi-
tor of the Freshman Handbook.

The Student Service Society,
which conducts prospective students
and visitors around the campus, also
started its preparations for the com-
ing Southern Interscholastic Press
Association meeting to be held here
next month.

the show. The door prizes include
golf clubs, golf bag, club covers, ten-
nis racquets, ice skates, water skis,
badminton set, and cameras.

Football, golf, fencing, soccer, ju-
do, gymnastics, baseball, fishing,
hunting, basketball, trampoline, box-
ing, wrestling, will be featured.

Sam Huff Present

Personalities to be on hand for
the show will include Sam Huff, all
pro-linebacker of the New York
Giants, Professional National Foot-
ball League team. Also, Miss Vir-
ginia, Miss Cathy Birch, will be here
to reign as Queen of Valley Youth
Fitness And Sport Show. Art Levin,
Mr. Fitness, of WDBJ-TV fame will
give youngsters and adults alike ad-
vice on physical fitness. Also noted
authority on Virginia outdoor life,
Max Ailor, field and stream editor
of the Richmond Times Dispatch, will
be present.

Along with Miss Virginia and lo-
eal high school girls, and Southern
Seminary students, Ann Howard will

show. Ann is star of her own TV
show “Ann Howard’s Panorama” on
WDBJ.

A real show stopper will be Roger
Webb and his wife and company, a
gymnastic team. Mr. and Mrs. Webb
are graduates of Florida State Uni-
versity and were members of the
gymnastic team there. He is now in-
structor of gymnastics at the Uni-
versity of Virginia.

 

Ring-tum Phi Elections

The election of editors for the
two editions of the Ring-tum Phi
and Editor of the Southern Col-
legian will be held Monday, May
1, at 2 p.m. in the Student Union.

Students who are interested in
having interviews for the two po-
sitions may contact the editors for
further information. The Ring-tum
Phi editors are Rosewell Page,

Tuesday edition, and Nathan
Simpson, Friday edition. Hugo
Hoogenboom is editor of the

Southern Collegian. Dr. Ross Bor-
den, professor of English, is a
faculty representative to the Pub-
lication Board and may give infor-
mation concerning the qualifica-
tions of candidates.

The SWMSFC musical, “Heads or
Tails,” which will open Monday at
the Troubadour Theater is complet-

 

Dr. Howard Lowry Is Speaker
For Phi Beta Kappa Initiation

Washington and Lee University’s
Gamma of Virginia Chapter of Phi
Beta Kappa will observe the 50th
anniversary of its founding in day-
long activities here April 12.

Highlight of the observance will
be the address by President Howard
F. Lowry of the College of Wooster,
Wooster, O., before the annual Phi
Beta Kappa-Cincinnati Convocation
at noon in Lee Chapel. He will speak
on “Margins of Possibility,” dealing
with current problems of liberal
arts education.

President Lowry also will speak
at the annual initiation banquet for
16 new student members and two
honorary initiates.

Alumni members of the Washing-
ton and Lee chapter of the national
academic society have been invited
to join faculty and student mem-
bers in marking the half-century
event. An informal luncheon for
alumni members is scheduled after
President Lowry’s address, along
with a 4:30 p.m. reception at the
home of Washington and Lee’s Pres-
ident Fred C. Cole.

Formal initiation of new members
will take place at 6:30 p.m. in the
Student Union Building. Among the
initiates are Dr. Edward D. Myers,

professor of philosophy at Washing-
ton and Lee; Charles R. McDowell,
Jr., alumnus and columnist for the
Richmond Times-Dispatch; law sen-
iors John Page Garrett, Portsmouth;
Nicholas H. Rodriguez, Magnolia,
Del.; Emil J. Sulzburger, Jr., Phoe-
bus; and Hugh V. White, Holland;
seniors John A. Broaddus, Rich-
mond; Roy Carpenter, Bryan, Tex.;
Grayfred B. Gray, Richmond; Henry
H. Harrell, Sabot; David W. Haslett,
Hickory, N. C.; James L. Hughes,
Richmond; Courtney R. Mauzy,
Charlotte, N. C.; Stephen H. Paley,
Kensington, Md.; Milford F.
Schwartz, Washington, D.C.; John

James A. Vann, III, Birmingham,
Ala.; and junior Joseph L. Goldstein,
Kingstree, S. C.

A native Ohioan, President Lowry
is a noted scholar of English litera-
ture and author and editor of num-
erous books, many dealing with
Matthew Arnold. He is an AB.
graduate of the institution he now
heads and began his teaching ca-
reer there as an instructor in Eng-
lish in 1923. He received his Ph.D.
degree from Yale in 1931 and has
served as president of Wooster
since 1944,

 

narrate the Friday night fashion,

 

H. Soper, Kansas City, Mo.; and|

 

By ANDY NEA
News Editor

Woody Herman and his nation-
ally known band will play at the
Friday night dance of Springs it
was announced today by Dance
Board President, Jimmy Vann.

Benny Goodman, who was ex-
pected to play for the dance Fri-
day night, will not be able to per-
form here due to a last-minute,
unexpected change of events. The
trumpet section of his band has
been signed to play on the Dinah
Shore show Sunday.

Nationally Ranked

Last year, Herman was the fourth
ranked clarinet player in the nation
by the Playboy All-Star Jazz pole.
He was born in Milwaukee in 1913
and sang and danced in_ local
theatres from early childhood. In
1936, he formed his own band after
performing with numerous other
groups. He quickly gained a reputa-
tion as the “Band that Plays the
Blues.” His greatest fame was at-
tained in the 40’s, when he got Dave
Matthews, an arranger and saxo-
phonest to work with him. The work
of Matthews and Herman produced
a unique sound while strongly bear-
ing the “Ellington touch.”

Through the years such famous
musicians in the Jazz world as Joey
Litcher, Tom Gerun, Isham Jones,
Harry Sisnock and Gus Arnheim

*Benny Goodman’s Band Cancels Dance Appearance
Because Of Unexpected Television Commitments

 

Woody Herman To Play For Spring Dances

 

have appeared with this group.

Herman is well known for his ar-
rangements from “Perfido,” with its |
gently swinging pace to “I Ain’t Got
Nothin’ but the Blues.” The trumpet
effects attained are noted throughout
the Jazz world.

The cocktail party given Friday -

afternoon will be in honor of Bill
Outman, Dance Set President. The

party will be held in Red Square ,°
from 4-6 (weather permitting). The =

Five Royals, working out of New
York, will provide the entertain-
ment.

Herman’s appearance at the Friday |
night dance will highlight
“Shangri-La” theme. Dance
president, Bill Outman, is centering

the theme of the dance around James §
Hilton’s famous novel, Lost Horizon. 4}

the |
Set |

The oriental motif combined with %
the Herman jazz idiom will set the =

1961 Spring Dance apart as one of
the most unique ever held.

This year, the schedule of the
Spring Dance Set has been changed
in an effort by Jimmy Vann to gain
more student interest in the dance
and concert. Last year Claude
Thornhill played for a Friday night
formal dance and Joni James gave
a concert on Saturday night sup-
ported by Thornhill’s band. The plan
for this year is for a Saturday af-
ternoon concert by an as yet un-
announced jazz artist and Woody
Herman’s performance Friday night.

 

Dr. Germaine Bree Talks
On Modern French Writers

Dr. Germaine Bree, a permanent! U.S. in 1936 and was naturalized in

member of the Institute for Research
in the Humanities at the University
of Wisconsin, will address a Wash-
ington and Lee audience Monday,
April 10, at 8 p.m. in duPont Audi-
torium. The public is invited.

Dr. Bree, a noted authority on
French Literature and the late
French author Albert Camus, will
speak on “The Writer and Our
Time: Malreaux, Satre, Camus.”
Also, an article on Camus by Dr.
Bree will appear in the forthcom-
ing issue of Shenandoah magazine.

Her lecture is being sponsored by
the Department of Romance Lan-
guages in cooperation with the Uni-
versity Center in Virginia.

Dr. Bree was licensed from the
University of Paris in 1930 and did
graduate work at Bryn Mawr Col-
lege in 1931-32. She came to the

SWMSFC Musical ‘Heads or Tails’ Opens Monday;
Tickets Are Still Available For Week-Day Shows

ing the last three days of rehearsals.
Cast and orchestra are putting the
final touches on Steve Danzansky’s

1952.

Her activities have included teach-
ing in Algeria 1932-36 and the
chairmanship of the French Depart-
ment of New York University. She
also rose from instructor to profes-
sor at Bryn Mawr. In the period
1950-53, she was a member of the
selection committee of student Ful-
bright awards and served a term as
chairman of the committee. She was

 

farsical adaptation of Aristophanes’|

“The Lysistrata.”

Commenting on this year’s pro-
duction, writer-director Danzansky
says, “I am very pleased with the
progress of the whole show. The
people in the cast and orchestra
and behind the stage have worked
herd and have exceeded the limit
of expectation.”

Demanding Schedule
The rehearsal schedule this week-

 

 

end will be a demanding one with)

two run-throughs planned for Sat-
urday and another two set for Sun-
day.

It is interesting to note that a
musical adaptation of “the Lysis-
trata” opened last week in New York
to generally poor reviews. Dan-
zansky, on the Broadway perform-
ance, says, “the very fact of the
mediocrity of the New York musical
was attributed to a lack of spark
on the part of the cast and the
script itself. We feel that our script
and cast maintain a high level of
comedy and perform with great
gusto and esprit de corps. With the
great amount of spirit shown by the
people working in the show I don’t
see how we can possibly fail.”

Tickets are sold out for the week-
end performances, but seats can still
be obtained for the week-day shows.
Dave Montgomery, a Delt sopho-
more, is in charge of sales and

tickets will be sold during the week-| ment in future antitrust enforce-
| ment,

end,

Dr.

Bree

also on the committee for French
Government awards.

During her services in the French
Army (1943-45) she was a member
of the underground. She was dec-
orated with the Bronze Star and
received the Citation a l’Ordre de
la Division. She also earned the
Chevalier de la Legion d’Honneur.

 

 

Dr. Phillips in Law Review

An article on “The Consent Decree
in Antitrust Enforcement” by Dr.
Charles F. Phillips, Jr., assistant
professor of economics at Washing-
ton and Lee University, appears in
the Spring issue of the university’s
Law Review.

The article deals with the develop-
ment and use of the consent decree
as a major instrument in the Anti-
trust Division’s program to enforce
antitrust laws. The use of consent
decrees has resulted in substantial
controversy, Dr. Phillips points out.

The article discusses the nature,
legal basis, and the use of the con-
sent decree as well as its results.
Suggestions are also made as to
how the consent decree could be
made an even more effective instru-

 

Joint English-Religion Seminar speaker Dr. William Mueller is flanked

  

%

by Dr. Marshall Fishwick, Malcolm Brownlee, Dr. Louis Hodges and Dr.
David Sprunt. The convocation consisted of two sessions held in Lee Chapel

this week.

—Photo by Bowen

Dr. William Mueller Addresses

English-Religion

Dr. William Mueller, chairman of
the department of English at Gouch-
er College, held a series of lectures
and discussions this past week under
the joint sponsorship of the Semi-
nars in Literature and Seminars in
Religion programs. This was the
first of the Religion seminars—a
program which has been jointly
organized by the UCA and the de-
partment of Religion.

Professor Mueller’s special inter-
est in the religious insights in mod-
ern “secular” literature is based
upon his conviction that much of our
ostensibly religious writing is hard-
ly worth the time of a person seek-
ing religious insights or aesthetic
satisfaction.”

Tuesday evening, April 4th, Dr.

-| Mueller concerned himself with the
‘| broad topic of Religion and Con-
-| temporary Literature in opening the

series in duPont auditorium. Cit-
ing the English literature of the
seventeenth-century as exemplary
of literature of “Biblical Commit-

-| ment,” he proposed that John Donne,

George Herbert, and John Milton
brought this genre to a peak of
fulfillment.

That evening he continued to de-
velop this thesis in contemporary

i literature using the plays of T. S.
‘Eliot as
| modern ettempts to represent this
‘biblical motif in expression.

indicative of the most

In Wednesday’s talk, Dr. Mueller
proposed a second area of study
which tended to enforce his thesis
of Religion and Contemporary Lit-
erature and he called this the lit-
erature of “Ultimate Concern.” Af-
ter examining representative plays

Vann Awarded
Fulbright Grant

James A. Vann, III, Phi Psi senior
from Birmingham, Ala., is a Ful-
bright Scholar. The International
Exchange Service announced in a
release yesterday that Vann had
received a grant to study Modern
History at the University of Vienna.

In becoming the first W&L student
to receive the coveted award for
1961-62, Vann joins 900 other college
students who will study abroad next
year, courtesy of the U.S. State De-
partment.

For Better Understanding

The funds used to finance these
exchanges are part of the foreign
currencies or credits owed to or
owed by the Treasury of the United
Stetes. Under executive agreements
with foreign governments, arrange-
ments have been made for foreign
study by US. college students. The
International Exchange program is
designed to promote better under-
standing of the United States in
other countries, and to increase mu-
tual understanding between the

(Continued on page 4)

 

 

Convocation

from modern dramatists such as
Sartre, Miller, and Williams, Dr.
Mueller settled on the late Albert
Camus as an author whose works,
specifically, The Rebel and The
Plague, best express this theory of
an ultimate value and concern amid
the seeming waste of existentialism.
Dr. Mueller spent a great portion
of his two days here visiting Religion
and English classes and either lec-
turing or leading discussions.

 

Counselors
For 1961-62
To Be Chosen

Applications are invited for the
position of Freshman Dormitory
Counselor for the session of 1961-62,
Frank J. Gilliam Dean of Students
announces. Applicants must be at
least current sophomores and appli-
cations should furnish information
as to any routine commitments after
8 p.m. that would normally take a
Counselor from the dormitory for
any appreciable time.

While counselorships are not
awarded on an academic basis, a
student who has failed to maintain
a C average would probably not be
selected. The selection of Counselors
is made on the personal qualifica-
tions of the applicant, apart from
financial need.

Should Take Dinner

It is desired to have as many
Freshman Dormitory Counselors as
possible to take dinner (the seated
evening meal) with the freshmen.
Applicants for dormitory counselor
positions should state in their ap-
plication whether they do or do not
wish to take dinner in the dining
hall. Those applicants who elect to
take dinner in the dining hall and
who are selected as Counselors will
not be charged for the meal. The
small cash compensation to Fresh-
man Dormitory Counselors will be
continued next session for those
Counselors who do not take dinner
in the dining hall, but not for those
signing up for dinner in the dining
hall. The main financial compensa-
tion for all Counselors will continue
to be a room.

Applications should be filed in the
Office of the Dean of Students by
Saturday, 15 April.

 

Placement

The managing editor of the
Charleston (CW. Va.) Daily Mail
will be on the Washington and
Lee campus Wednesday, April 12,
to interview students interested in
a career in the field of journalism.
Arrangements for an _ interview
appointment may be made with
Mr. Jennings, Payne 1.
Page 2

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

Che Ring-tum Phi
Friday Edition

Member of Virginia Intercollegiate Press Association

 

A Dance Proposal

The lack of student support for the university dance set
has grown to be a major problem for both the student body
and the faculty sponsors. Some action must be taken to cor-
rect the flaws in the system and to bring back student interest
in the dances. We are are not alone in this view. Steve Galef,
incoming president of the Dance Board, has presented several
proposals to the IFC for action at a future meeting.

We would like to make some recommendations that, if initi-
ated, might improve student attendance at the dances. Some
of our ideas coincide with changes which the Dance Board will
make next year—in these cases we wish to offer support for

We would not in any way attempt to distract from the credit |
due the present Dance Board in its effort to present dance sets
which would attract crowds. But in the hope of offering a con-
structive and successful program, we would like to suggest
the following alterations.

Beginning with Opening Dances, we support the Dance
Board plan for next year to combine Homecomings and Open-
ings into one big weekend. This consolidation, which we feel
is overdue, guarantees three improvements. First, it eliminates
any conflicts which have stemmed in the past from trying to
schedule Parents’ Weekend and two social events in a four or
five week period. Secondly, the combined weekend gives as-
surance that the student body will not be distracted from the
dance by an away football game at a nearby school as has
hapened in recent years. Thirdly, the Dance Board will gain
some additional income from alumni attending the Saturday
night dance, thus making possible a more attractive selection of
bands,

For Opening Dances, we would also suggest a moratorium
on or a voluntary waiving of Saturday night combo rights by
the fraternities. Not only would the elimination of Saturday
night combos cut the expense of the weekend for the student,
it would also remove a major barrier to attendance at the dance.
In case that combo rights were waived by the fraternities, we
suggest the IFC permit the fraternities to have one more party
weekend during the first semester. If such a plan were adopted,
there would be fewer parties and students could enjoy both
the combo and the dance band, something which is virtually
impossible under the present system.

While Fancy Dress is now the biggest dance weekend of the
year, we would like to see it made even more spectacular. To
provide the funds necessary for extra decorations and the
very best.bands, we would cut expenses on Finals Dance, a set
which few students attend anyway.

_ The Spring Dance weekend, we believe, should become a
traditional jazz weekend. The presentation of jazz bands then
would relieve the monotony of the regular bands and combos
and would allow the Dance Board to attract some of the better
known names in entertainment. The idea of holding an out-of-
doors concert. at Springs—weather permitting—strikes us as
an excellent idea.

We would also suggest moving the dance sets from the
rather drab gymnasium to Evans Dining Hall. The setting
would certainly be more attractive. And the facilities for offer-
ing refreshments and sitting room are far more adequate.
While holding dances in the Hall might be inconvenient for
the Slater people, there are only four dance sets—and most of
the necessary changes could be made by students.

All in all, we feel the dance sets are very worthwhile, and
we do not wish to see them curtailed or eliminated. Changes
are needed in the program, that is true. But with a Dance Board
sensitive to the students’ demands there is no reason why the
Dance Sets cannot again become the central attraction on
our important weekends. —G. E. H.

. . i ‘
the modifications. |x

   

 

Called ‘The

By VICTOR LASSETER

Friday Columnist

America has always had a goodly
number of self-righteous patriotic
societies, but not
even the American
Legion can com-
pare to the con-
troversial John
Birch Society, an
anti - communist
group which has
been making
headlines during
the last few
weeks.

It all started
when parts of The
Politician, a book written by the
Society’s founder, former business-
man Robert Welch, leaked out to the
press. The Politican was privately
published and circulated among the
elite of the party, and necessarily
so, for Welch’s book contains some
remarks which are widely regarded
as seditious libel. For instance,
Welch’s book makes the unqualified
statement that “Milton Eisenhower
is actually Dwight Eisenhower's
superior and boss within the Com-
munist Party.” The late John Foster
Dulles, of course, “was a communist
agent.”

Strongly Defended in Press

In spite of these charges, which
have no slight resemblance to Hit-
ler’s “big lie,” the John Birch So-
ciety has been strongly defended
in the press and in the senate, and
even includes several congressmen
in its organization, which is struct-
urally similar to the communist cell
organization.

Several congressmen, however,
have demanded that the Society be
investigated by the House Un-
American Activities Committee, on
the grounds that sedition, whether
from the left or from the right, is
sedition. Welch’s reaction to this
criticism has been a cool one; he
actually invited the Committee to
investigate his organization. He has
denied calling Eisenhower a Com-
munist, but as yet has not explained
away The Politician.

Doesn’t Want Investigation
At least one official in the So-

Lasseter

tion. His reply to charges that the
Birch Society was un-American it-
self is highly significant. The move-
ment to investigate the society, the
official said, “is a Communist-led
movement.”

That there is a strong Communist
organization in the U.S. is rather
certain. But the belief that some
25,000 registered communists, by
using the philosophy of the elite
corps, can multiply this small nu-
merical strength in a Leviathan is
rather improbable. Communism often
appeals to the intellectual and mal-
content, but the spread of commun-
ism also depends on poverty, not

group of fanatical devotees.

ciety does not want the investiga-|

just upon the efforts of a small,

John Birch Society’s Book

Politician”

Has Caused Much Anxiety"
akg Ww

Birch Society, and the un-American
Activities Committee for that mat-

ter, is the fact that they regard| "

a communist-inspired attack. In
other words, if an organization
claims anti-communism as the basis
of its existence, it’s bound to be good.

Law Student
Takes Alaskan

 

By PAUL PLAWIN
Friday Staff Writer

As most Washington and Lee Uni-
versity students mapped plans for
the annual collegiate pilgrimage to

out for the Yukon.

school freshman from Norfolk, left
Lexington two weeks ago bound for
Alaska.

Lewis and his 19-year-old broth-
er Steve, a sophomore at Franklin
and Marshall College, pulled away
from Beker Dormitory at W&L be-
fore spring vacation in a foreign
compact car loaded down with fried
chickens, spare tires, snow shovels
and a pair of water wings.

“North to Alaska or Bust” read the
large white letters emblazoned
across the side of the car. “10,000
Miles, 10 Days, No Money!” read an-
other emblem.

They were to stay at the Univer-

expleined, “but if we find something
interesting up there we may stay
longer.” Neither of the brothers
has been to the 49th state before.

They hoped to average 1,000 miles
per day on their trek, making the
roundtrip in about 10 days.

“We plan to travel at a minimum
of expense,” Lewis said before leav-
ing, “a Goodrich dealer in Farmville
gave us a set of tires and the mer-
chants of Lexington and Lancaster,
Pa., have helped us out. The rest
is up to fate.”

The elder Lewis, who sports a
wild black beard that has earned
him the nickname “The Schweppes
Man” among his fellow students,
said he started planning the trip
about Thanksgiving time—when he
started the beard. His brother de-
cided to join him only a few weeks
ago.

As the two brothers prepared to
shove off on their cross-country
spring excursion, someone in a crowd
of well-wishers and hecklers yelled
out, “Are you going to get blind
dates up there?”

And the northbound collegians rolled
down the street with an arrow on
the roof of the car pointing north.

 

Dangerous Aspect

 

The dangerous aspect of the John!

Editor’s note: As of Thursday
the pair had not returned to Lex-
ington.

 

RES IPSA LOQUITUR

 

A ‘Do-It-Yourself’ Column For Our Readers;
Author Offers Subjects---You Do The Rest

By THORNS CRAVEN

Friday Columnist

Since we've all returned from
our glorious vacations, and all the
tales have been
told about them
by now, I’ve de-
cided to forego
any mention of
the week past, in
this week’s col-
umn. And I have
decided not to
make any mention
of my trip to New
York since my
parents are faith-
ful subseribers to
(It does make a good

 

this paper.
story though, and I’m having pri-

vate readings of my experiences
every Monday, Wednesday, and Fri-
day at five-thirty—this time is
chosen out of respect for the old
Lone Ranger radio program—so
come if you can, and if you can’t
then that’s your problem.)

And since neither my vacation,

 

nor yours, seems destined, or doom-
ed as the case may be, to make this
issue of our illustrious paper, there’s
not much left to say. The Tuesday
Edition was discourteous enough not
to be published this week, and
therefore I am left without subject
matter, and you are left without
anything to joke about. It almost
makes you sad that the Southern
Collegian doesn’t come out during
vacation.

But all this rambling gets us no-
where, and so what I propose to
do is go through the list of sub-
jects that I had thought of for this
week, put down the titles, and
then let all of you sit around and
write your own stories. Do so in 25
words or less, make up a nom-de-
plume, and you can win the Mahan
Award (first prize is two weeks
tuition or a glimpse at all the
lecture notes in the English depart-
ment, keeping all the Confederate
money you find). And so, fellow

 

1

creative writers, here are the sub-
jects:

This first one will naturally be
the most intriguing, and possibly
the least rewarding, so watch your
step.

In less than 651 names, write a
damning social treatise on some top-
ic, using the following title: “Dick
Litkenhaus Goes to College, or, He
Was Neither Here Nor There.”
Make sure that each word is care-
fully footnoted, giving Webster’s
International (or some other refer-
ence work with as good a name)
full credit for your vocabulary.

The pledge of the month is “On
my honor I have neither given nor
received aid on this paper, and al-
though I charged it at the Book
Shop I will pay the bill within three
months.”

 

2. This subject is also sticky:
“What I Did on My Vacation.” If |

you have a leaning toward humor |
then you might use John F. Ken-'

ib

nedy as your pseudonymn. If your
talent is on the serious side, then
you might look up the name of
the Ft. Lauderdale Chief of Police.

You could apply the prize money
to your bail. And if you’re not in
jail, but back on campus, you could
use the money to start a _ social
club to take the place of the fra-
ternities which you have been for-
bidden to enter.

3. This last title will probably be
the most interesting, chiefly because
I have lifted it from MAD and be-
cause none of you will understand
it. Therefore all of you will rush
to use it, and no doubt will write
profound articles. Here it is, take
off: “I Had One Grunch but That
Eggplant Over There.”

Without my insipid explanations
I am sure that each one of you can
fathom the deeper meaning of this
superficially ridiculous statement,
and that every paper turned in

(Continued on page 4)

every attack upon themselves as

Spring Vacation |)

Fort Lauderdale, Fla., for the spring ,
vacation, a W&L law student set! :

 

Doug Lewis, a 20-year-old law ‘

sity of Alaska just one day, Lewis}

 

An alumnus of Washington and
Lee has presented the University
with a completely documented and
authenticated 161-year-old antique.

Duncan G. Groner, a member of
a stock broking firm, has given the
University a clock made at the turn
of the nineteenth century in Han-
over, Mass.

The history of the clock can be
traced back to its creation in 1799 or
early 1800 by John Bailey, Jr. a
clock maker and noted inventor.

Bailey is also credited with the |
| invention of a steam-driven roasting
jack and the development of a
spinning jenny which was used by
many New England textile mills.

Has Various Dials

The clock, an eight-day weight
driven instrument, is complete with
a day-of-the-month and a moon
phase indicator. It is cased in the
Sheraton style. Notable variants,
however, are twist carved columns
on the hood and quarter columns
between the chest and hood. Brass
finals and eagle and ball decora-
tions are original.

On the dial is painted the legend
“warranted by J. Bailey for Joseph
G. Rea.” And a recent cleaning,

Che Ring-tum Phi

Friday Edition

The Ring-tum Phi is published Tes-
day and Friday during the college year.
It is printed w, the Journalism Labor-
ery Press, Washington and Lee Uni-
versity. The mailing address is Box
899, Lexington, Va,

Entered as second class matter Sep-
tember 20, 1946 at the Post Office, Lex-
ington, Va., under the act of March
8, 1878.

National Advertising Representative:

 

 

  
 
 
   

 

The National Advertisers Service, Inc.,

420 Madison Ave., New York, N.Y.

Editor-in-Chief................ Nathan Simpson

Business Manager.............. Huntley Biggs
Editorial Board

Managing FEditor................

Assistant Ma g Edi

News Edit

Sports Editor...

COBY BIROP n...ccsssssnserss

Photography ditor..
Advertising Manager.

   

dward Holmes

 

Circulation Manager..

Peter Agelesto
Office Manager

Don

 

 

After

The

The College

 

i i i i i i in i hi a i hi i i i il

 

cl a ll nn nella clad i dy te ty te

cFall

Le ee ee ee

FORMAL WEAR

and

Complete Formal Accessories

BY RUDOFKER

 

Spring Dance Set April 14th and 15th

W&L Is Given 161-Year-Old Clock

¥

  
  
   

Deans Farrar and Gilliam admire antique clock.

which necessitated removal of the
dial, revealed an inscription on the
back of the dial—“John W. Bailey,
Hanover, Mass.”

The clock was made for Joseph
Rea of Boston. About 1802 he moved
to North Carolina and took the clock
with him. Since then, it has been in
the Rea family until it came to
Groner through his grandmother.

Placed in Washington Hall

The clock is now located in the
Deans’ Offices on the second floor of
Washington Hall.

Groner attended the university
from 1931 until 1935. In expressing
his thanks for the gift, Dean Frank
J. Gilliam said, “Mr. Groner has
been a loyal and interested alum-
nus.”

 

NOTICE
The Assimilation Committee
will meet Tuesday at 7 p.m. in the
0.D.K. room of the Student Union.

The Friday Ring-tum Phi Staff
will meet Wednesday at 5 p.m. in
the Student Union.

 

ee ee

HICKMAN’S ESSO
South Main Street
HO 3-2024

titties

eee Oreo TOTO SOO OS
CALL BY NUMBER
and Save Time

LEXINGTON
TELEPHONE Co.

i te i i ee ee ae ee a ee

 

Teh rood eloohe ole oe oho:

%
%
-
%
-
%
-
”
”
%

 

 

 

THE DUTCH INN

For Reservation Call
MRS. KATHERINE ADAMS
HO 3-3433

 

 

 

 

TI ee

up) B.'¢

Town Shop

 

 

ee a a a a a a a a ae
THE RING-TUM PHI

Page 3

 

GENERALS WIN SECOND IN ROW

 

Roy Carpenter Massacres Indians With Arm, Bat, 6-4

By JOHN ALLGOOD
Sports Editor

Roy Carpenter used a strong arm
and a heavy bat to decision William
and Mary for the first time in five
tries Thursday at Williamsburg.

The smart righthander not only
held the Indians to four hits in an
eight-inning relief chore but also
slapped a two-run double in the
top of the 13th to give the Gen-
erals a 6-4 win.

Chuck Lane opened the fateful

 

13th with a single to right center.
Ned Hobbs walked then Carpenter,
who carried an .000 batting aver-
age into the game, lashed a double
to center to drive in Lane and
Hobbs.

William and Mary jumped on
starter Brice Gamber for a quick
3-0 lead.

But the Generals, led by the time-
ly hitting of third baseman Lane,
rallied to tie the score in the
seventh and go ahead, 4-3 in the

 

eighth.

Lane’s sharp single to left plated
Buck Rose, who had walked, with
the go-ahead run.

Rose and Bob Williams helped
insure the Generals win with out-
standing defensive plays. Rose ex-
ecuted a double play in the third
when he snared Bob Stoy’s drive
to right and nipped Dick Coyce,
who was trying to advance to third.

Williams made another of his
pateneted one-hand catches to rob

 

 

i i i
Vv ee Te eee eee ee ee ee ee OC CT CCC CCCR CC CORT TTT

Wednesday Blues Hit WGL; Tennis,
Lacrosse Teams Fall To Red Raiders}

Wednesday was a blue day for Washington and Lee athletics as
Colgate University’s Red Raiders pounded the Generals’ lacrosse and

tennis teems

The Red Raider lacrosse team thumped Coach Bob McHenry’s
stickmen, 12-3, while at the same time the Colgate netters were

battering the W&L tennis team, 9-

0.

Colgate, on its annual spring tour to the South, opened a
quick 1-0 lead in the lacrosse game; but the Generals’ Ray
Miller tied the score with a 10-yard shot at 5:38 of the first
period. After that the Generals faded quickly

Rushing through the W&L defense like water through a sieve,
Colgate built up a 7-1 halftime lead. But the Generals still had a

chance.

That chance lasted exactly three minutes as the Red Raiders
filled the nets with four goals within 1:32 early in the third period.

John Paul opened the Colgate burst with a short center

 

Jay Wickel of a hit in the twelfth.
Williams nipped a Harvard threat
Monday with a one-handed catch.

The Indians tied the score with
two out in the ninth when Bob Irby Phil “Flip” Sharp did not have a

Ww Ww Ww Ww
Carpenter Finally Breaks Jinx,
Beats Indians For First Time

When William and Mary defeated W&L and Roy Carpen-

socked a solo home run. They threat-
ened in every extra inning but the
13th, putting at least one man on
base in each inning.

ter, 4-3, for the fourth time in two years by one run, the Indians

sighed a breath of relief.
“Thank goodness we won't have*
|to face Carpenter again,” they said
, because they thought 1960 was Car-
penter’s last year at W&L.

 

against two losses, Carpenter al-
lowed only four hits. He struck out
five and walked two in his eight-

But the Indians were rudely | imming relief chore.

surprised Thursday when none
other than Carpenter went to the
mound against them in the sixth
inning. Washington and Lee grab-
bed a 4-3 lead and held it until
the bottom of the ninth when Bob
Irby blasted a two-out homer to
tie the game.

William and Mary put runners on
base in the 10th, 11th, and 12th,
but Carpenter bore down each time
and erased the Indian threats.

After driving in Chuck Lane and
Ned Hobbs with a booming double
(Continued on page 4)

 

dull moment Monday as he pitched
the W&L baseball team to a 6-0
victory over Harvard in the week’s
first top mound performance.

Sharp stopped Harvard on four
hits, struck out eight, and walked
only one. His only trouble spot was
the first when Harvard picked up
two of its four hits.

The Generals managed only four
hits off a pair of Harvard pitchers,
but used skillful base running, the
sacrifice, and four Harvard errors
to cement their first win in three
games.

Bob Williams got the Generals off
to a fast start in the second when
he stole home on the front of a
delayed double steal.

Ned Hobbs duplicated Williams’

(Continued on page 4)

 

 

Waggy’s Jewelers
35 S. Main Street
Phone HO 3-4121

THE HOME OF QUALITY

iit at tl de

 

   

At that moment Carpenter began
to wonder if the Indians still had
the hex on him. Once before he
had held a lead with two out in
the ninth and then lost the game
by one run.

But the smart righthander got

On Campus scsi

(Author of “I Was a Teen-age Dwarf’, “The Many
Loves of Dobie Gillis’’, etc. )

shot. Then on three successive faceoffs Rick Riccardi, the Red
Raider’s scorer, weaved through the porous W&L defense and
scored. This “hat trick” gave Riccardi a total of four goals for

Jack Nickel to ground out to end
the inning.

| im picking up his first win

 

a

    

 

the game.

accounted for the scores.
aE

and the three doubles’ matches.
The only bright spot in the

 

Baker bowed to Jim Fiske,

BART MITCHELL
In Action
—Photo by Bowen

 

Perking up somewhat against the Colgate subs, W&L scored two
goals in the final period. Freshmen Jimmy Powers and John McDaniel

The tennis team fared even worse, losing all six singles’ matches

of freshmen John Baker and Jim Mell. Coach Bill Washburn
said that both Baker and Mell showed promise of helping the
the team considerably this year.

Edwards, 7-5, 6-0. In the doubles Baker and Mell were beaten by
Edwards and Fred Haggarty, 7-5, 7-5.

EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EEE EGS

netters’ performances was play

é R. L. Hess and Bro.
* * y JEWELERS

é Lexington, Virginia

z HO 3-2833

ee

Me hobo ohe sho sho she ole Le rfe nfo fe ofe she ste fee she eee ole ote

 

 

6-3, 6-4, and Mell lost to Ken

Lexington

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ee | S sca ddiar tet Laundro Matic
* ROBERT E. LEE ¢ . ° ' +
+ ‘ 209 S. Main
% %
x smnsmmnasd ; Radio Hospital % Short Orders—Lunches } *
% David M. Moore eA : %
‘ Proprietor : ° ; ere FT ae MOND
Cen eeeebtedettetebdebiets Radio, TV, Phonograph Merle rterterteedetedereoe tet eet tes SHIRTS
ee ®
Sales and Service Dev Cleeni
‘ y Cleaning
’Dodge and Dodge Dart’ ‘ TOLLEY’S PHARMACY ices
: at : Prescriptions Filled ervice
: an ancer ° HO 3-3531 Immediately ‘
: America’s First Fine ° evermaan tenes for your convenience
° ° HO 3-2211
; ECONOMY CAR : eeeceeeoceocooeoeeseeeoeoeoo
e e\@e
; oniacaak - MYERS ¢|$° FOR ROOM RESERVATIONS CALL HO S21st
e Za HARDWARE ste LEXINGTON MOTEL °
: _. : ‘ COMPANY 215 Large Rooms—U. S. 11 By-Pass South .
e Phone HObart 3-3146 eis cis Free TV—Phones—Continental Breakfast >
Seeeecooooeseescooocoees ©6€0008280000~72880000080096809 z Only Motel in corporate limits of Lexington >
©0080 F080090S008S S08 S00SO9800908880O80O8SSE8888ESS
Hamric and Sheridan LEXINGTON a )
JEWELERS
Watch and Jewelry Repair CLEANERS THE COLLEGE INN
Mand SagHeNs Ge Clase SHAG ||| enene $00 0-0008 200 8, deleeee :
HO 3-2022 The Best Food in Town
jn American and Italian
FOREIGN CARS AND STUDEBAKER LARKS Catering to the Students, Faculty,
OUR SPECIALTY and Towns People
Expert Motor Work Open 8:00 a.m.—8:00 p.m.
MAIN STREET MOBIL STATION OPEN SUNDAYS
S 4)

 

 

 

 

DIXON’S

ESSO SERVICE CENTER
ROUTE 60 EAST IN LEXINGTON

Across from the White Top Resturant
HO 3-4214

Wash, Grease, Lube, Road Service

a
-
&
+
.]
oe
a
e
e
©
e
e
oe
oe
e
te
e
e
o
Charge Accounts Welcome °
®

e
8O0OSOHOOOO0OEESHOOO09 0089088099 09000888000008

 

 

The Southern Inn

Cordially invites you to make this your headquarters for good food
Here you get the best food for the most reasonable prices

Our Specialties:

Steaks, Chicken, Country Ham, and the best sandwiches
in town

Meet your friends here

 

See eeebdeeeeeedebeedeee heb heehebebdebeebebeper
Shirt Service as You Like it

Quality Cleaning and Pressing

UNIVERSITY CLEANERS
HO 3-3622

*
“Your Campus Neighbors” z

F Pee heheh heh beh hehe dey

Beebe obeobeode rere ode rde feof oe fete rte oer aero stooeobe oder obo ote feofo ade ote ate nfeate ole oe afe ee ote oe oe testosterone ste ofe

 

 

Open a convenient student Checking account
TODAY

at

Rockbridge National Bank

Member Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation

 

 

 

 

 

 

Nhe byl ae lid Sti li: Wi,

 

HAPPINESS CAN’T BUY MONEY

With tuition costs spiralling ever upward, more and more under-
graduates are investigating the student loan plan. If you are
one who is considering the “Learn Now, Pay Later’ system, you
would do well first to study the case of Leonid Sigafoos.
Leonid, the son of an upholsterer in Straitened Circum-
stances, Idaho, had his heart set on going to college, but his
father, alas, could not afiord to send him. Leonid applied for

a Regents Scholarship, but his reading speed, alas, was not
very rapid —two words an hour—and before he could finish the
first page of his test the Regents had closed their brief cases
crossly and gone home. Leonid then applied for an athletic
scholarship, but he had, alas, only a single athletic skill—
balancing a stick on his chin—and this, alas, aroused only
passing enthusiasm among the coaches.

 

 

And then, huzzah, Leonid learned of the student loan plan:
he could borrow money for his tuition and repay it in easy
monthly installments after he left school!

Happily Leonid enrolled in the Southeastern Idaho College
of Woodpulp and Restoration Drama and happily began a
college career that grew more happy year by year. Indeed, it
became altogether ecstatic in his senior year because Leonid met
a coed named Salina T. Nem with hair like beaten gold and
eyes like two squirts of Lake Louise. Love gripped them in its
big moist palm and they were betrothed on the Eve of St. Agnes.

Happily they made plans to be married the day after com-

mencement—plans, alas, that never were to come to fruition
because Leonid, alas, learned that Salina, like himself, was in
college on a stude nt loan, which meant that he had not only
to repay his own loan when he left school but also Salina’s, and
the job, alas, that was waiting for Leonid after graduation at

the Boise Raccoon Works simply did not pay enough, alas, to
cover both their loans, plus rent and food and clothing.

Sick at heart, Leonid and Salina sat down and lit Marlboro
Cigarettes and tried to find an answer to their problem—and,
sure enough, they did! I do not know whether or not Marlboro
Cigarettes helped them find an answer; all I know is that
Marlboros taste good and look good, and when things close in
and a feller needs afriend and the world is black as the pit from
pole to pole, it is a heap of comfort and satisfaction to be sure
that Marlboros will always provide the same unflagging pleas-
ure, the same unstinting quality, in all times and climes and
conditions. That's all I know.

Leonid and Salina, I say, did find an answer—a very simple
one. If their student loans did not come due until they left
school, why, then they just wouldn’t leave school! So after

receiving their bachelor degrees, they re-enrolled and took
masters degrees. After that they took doctors degrees, loads and
loads of them, until today Leonid and Salina, both aged 78, both

still in school, hold doctorates in Philosophy, Humane Letters

Jurisprudence, Veterinary Medicine, Civil Engineering, Op-
tometry, and Dewey Decimals. Their student loans, as of last
January 1, amounted to a combined total of eighteen million
dollars, a sum which they probably would have found great

difficulty in repaying had not the Department of the Interior
recently declared them a National Park.

© 1961 Max Shulman
* * *

You don’t need a student loan—just a little loose change—
to grab yourself a new kind of smoking pleasure from the
makers of Marlboro—the unfiltered king-size Philip Morris
Commander. Welcome aboard!
 

 

 

 

Page 4

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

Carpenter Breaks Jinx
(Continued from page 3)

in the top of the 13th, Carpenter
put William and Mary down in
order in the bottom of the 13th to
insure a 6-4 General win.

For the first time in his college
career, Carpenter had beaten Wil-
liam and Mary.

Roy was glad, but what about
William and Mary? The poor In-
dians were still wondering what
it would be like to play a W&L
team without Roy Carpenter on the
mound.

 

Craven’s Do-It-Y ourself
(Continued from page 2)

dealing with this timely topic will
rate at least a B minus in some
course.

And so I have presented to you
what this column might have been
about this week, had I chosen to
write one. But with the trend toward
audience participation I thought it
best to start the new half-semester
off with something like this. So get
to work scholars, this could be
your big chance, your start in the)
big-time.

STANLEY WARNER

STATE

a>) ee
|_WOBART 3-3424 |

 

 

NOW SHOWING
Matinee 2 p.m.—Evening 7:45 p.m.

 

 

*

SALUTING THE CIVIL WAR CENTENNIAL!

FORO TI
The Love Story That Thrilled Millions!
/ NX
DAVID O.SELZNICKS

MARGARET MITCHELLS
sum
l

SOR OF IME OLD
of Ten

i

GONE WITH
» THE WIND =
€° CURK GABLE
VWIEN LEIGH

     
  

McPherson Will Lecture
In duPont Hall Tonight

The General Counsel for the Dem-
ocratic Platform Committee will
speak tonight on “Regionalism and
National Interest.” The talk is
scheduled for 8:15 in duPont Audi-
torium.

Dr. Harry McPherson’s activities
for the Democratic Party keep him
busy with conferences with Vice
President Lyndon Johnson and con-
stantly on the floor of the Senate
with Sen. Mike Mansfield, the ma-

jority leader. He was also active
throughout the 1960 presidential
campaign.

Prior to assuming his duties as
counsel, Dr. McPherson was asso-
ciated with the University of Texas
law school. One of his_ special
interests has been regionalism,
along with the political scene.

While in Lexington, Dr. McPher-
son will appear in several classes and
will be a guest of Dr. Marshall Fish-
wick, professor of American Studies.

 

 

 

Rake ke

SUN.-MON.

 

   
 
 
  

   
 
  
 
 

M-G-M presents...breathless, /
incredible excitement!

CARY GRANT
EVA MARIE SAINT
JAMES MASON

in ALFRED HITCHCOCK'S @*=**>

‘NORTH BY NORTHWEST’

in Vista Vision * TECHNICOLOR®
co-starring JESSIE JOYCE LANDIS

 

 

 

TEXACO
Super Service Station
Lexington, Virginia
Corner Main and Nelson
©00000060000000080000008

He orteodentertengeogontengeogecfetoatentontontendentecteofesteofoot

 

Carpenter Beats Indians
With Pitching, Batting

(Continued from page 3)

feat in the fifth when he raced
home as Roy Carpenter dashed to-
ward second.

In the third, singles by Chuck
Lane and Williams, a walk, and a
throwing error plated two runs for
the Generals.

W&L rounded out its scoring in
the sixth when Robin Wood scored
on Lane’s sacrifice and Lane, who
was safe on an error, tallied on
Hobbs’ deep fly to left.

Williams turned in the day’s best
defensive play when he _ robbed
Harvard’s Mike Drummey of an
extra-base hit in the seventh. Wil-
liams, racing at full speed, snared
the hard-hit ball in the webbing of
his glove in deep left center.

 

 

For those extra pieces

of
FURNITURE

for your room
see our stock
before buying

So
VARNER AND POLE

 

 

pobbededededededededeotabebetoketdededeaoteee
THE NEW

White Top

Restaurant
*

*-
%
%
*
%
%
%

SEE ee eS eS Ss SS Se ee

EEEEEEEEEEEEE EEE EE EEE EEE EEE EEE TET

ee

A personal invitation

to the
Students

Try our delicious foods
Route 60 East

Peace Corps

Questionnaires for the volunteer
Peace Corps have been received
from Peace Corps Headquarters,
Washington 25, D.C. with the re-
quest that they be made available
for use of all interested persons.

The purpose of this question-
naire is to enable the Peace Corps
to obtain information about the
number and qualifications of peo-
ple now prepared to volunteer for
services with the Peace Corps.

Questionnaires may be obtained
from the Placement Office, Wash-
ington Hall, Room 25.

 

 

Green Valley Motel

One Mile North on
U. S. Highway No. 11

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA
HO 3-2195

 

Vann Gets Fulbright Scholarship Grant For 1961-62

(Continued from page 1)
peoples of the United States and
the peoples of other nations.

A Dean’s List and Honor Roll
student, Vann has been Vice-Presi-
dent of his social fraternity, Presi-
dent of the Junior Class, and the
English Committee on Seminars, He
is President of the Dance Board, a

member of the Executive Committee,
in the Glee Club, a columnist for
the Ring-tum Phi, the Student Serv-
ice Society, the Glee Club, and the
Calyx.

This year, he was elected to Phi
Beta Kappa and Omicron Delta Kap-
pa. He is an European History major
and is currently doing honors work.

 

 

 

 

 

ROCKBRIDGE LAUNDRY

and
Dry Cleaners

Shirts Transparently Wrapped
for Freshness
*
AGENTS:

Fraternities, Dorms and Co-op

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

i IDEAL :
* BARBER SHOP :
2 QUICK SERVICE *

Od

We oherfe ode ofeofe ole fe ofe fe abe ofa ole re oie oho fe ve ae ake fee

eee tet

 

*
*
%
%
%
*
%
%
%
%
+
%
*
%
%
%
%
RA
*
+
%
+
%
:
+

ee Fe Fe

+
4
%
.
.
.
.
%
.
.
.
<
.
e
a
ie
co

|

Fe oho oho oho ole oho oe ode oe fete ole obo oe fe oe ole ole she ooo of

 

 

 

It’s Good usiness

To Do usiness
with IERER’S

PHARMACY

 

 

 

TETLOW
TV Service

221 S. Main HO 3-2841

 

 

 

eee LED
SOCCTECOHCOOHOCHOSHHOSCEEEEOEE

SPENCER

General Tire

536 E. Nelson Street

Best in Tires
GENERAL

Best in Recapping
Kraft Tread

New and Used Tires
FOR COMPACT CARS

Lersreeerearersrsreneeny

Baker
Ford Sales

BETTER DEALS

CLEARANCE
of lot for 1961 Models

NEW AND
USED CARS

Highway 60 East

Hee ode ode food ole oho oho ole fe ole oho ole ole ole fede fe fe fe fo ale ale nfe ale fenfonlende oleolele

Gio Me Be Be BD Ge De Ge BGs Me Be Be ae aM t
ofp oo ode fede ole oe ofe eke fe fe ode oe ode ode ode ofa fede ode ede ote

Meee ee tee teteere eter feel ooh eoereoh fe fete testo forges

The First National Bank

of Lexington
*
has special checking accounts

for students

 

 

rere

 

College Outlines
Hymarx Outlines
Made Simple Series

OE a |

 

cia tatiana a htt

 

i ln A i i i i nn

WANT TO CUT SHORT THE STUDY??

try our

The Book Shop

W. Washington Street

nll i ln lin tn cnn tr ch nl dcr he

~~

Barrons Series
Data Guides
Vocabulary Cards

 

I i I tl al i i

 

 

SUNDAY

Ted’s Steak House
Finest Foods
Choice Meats
Ww

Route 60 Buena Vista

DINNERS

 

 

 

 

ES

Member

 

 

“The PEOPLES N

STUDENTS ACCOUNTS INVITED HERE

ATIONAL

   

F.D.LC.

 

 

 

900099000 00000 0000000008

White’s Music

Store

(Opposite State Theater)
+
Phonographs—Hi-Fi
Expert Repair Service
1

5 W. Nelson St. Lexington, Va.

HO 3-3522

 

 

Pe ee OO
re ee ee eee ee ee eee

+

Fe odo she he oho oo ofo abe ofoofe whe oho afe oho oho oho oe oho ole of ofesfe

 

The farther smoke travels
| Air-Softened,

the milder, the cooler,
the smoother it tastes

 

dle Be Be Be Be Be BeBe Berke

sheer Ne Me Me ac ale dle le Be ile he Be Be Be Be Be BeBe Be Be Bo Be Ba Be Be Be Bee hehe hee 2. 2

 

ee eS SS eS ee ee

 

“Soe Bee Be Bo Se Be Bie Me Me Be Be Be Be Be te Be Be Be Be Be Be a Be Be tle le tle Ba le Ba ae ee
OEP GE OE OG Et ge ge Et ge Et a et Ee a a et ee ee ee ee eS SS eS Se ee

EE eT SST eee eee

We Feature

SEALTEST

Dairy Products
To get the best get Sealtest”

over twenty different products in addition to
delicious Sealtest ice cream

Block and Crushed Ice

Your favorite mixes—Ice Cold

*
Maple-Rock Distributors, Inc.
Phone HO 3-2168

OO OR

Mee che whe ce Ba he Me Me Me Me Me BeBe Be he he Be Bete BeBe Bete Be Be BeBe the tle Bette tte he
Ter PY MY MEY MEY MES RE RS RS BE a a Pe a a ee eS eS RY eS aS a ee eT RY RS a ee a ee

 

 

  
 
   
  

 

 

This king sets a record for taste. Every satisfying
puff is A/r-Softened to enrich the flavor and make
it mild. Special porous paper lets you draw fresh

air into the full king length of top-tobacco, straight
Grade-A all the way.

 

0

Oe ES TEES eeeeeeeeeeerrrere

 

KING

© Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co,

conspire cael

 
TUESDAY
Edition

Che Ring-tum Phi

Washington and Lee Semi-Weekly Newspaper

TUESDAY
Edition

 

Volume LXI

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA, APRIL 11, 1961

Number 47

 

HEADS OR TAILS’ UNMATCHED SUCCESS

Spring Concert Presents

Second Musical By Danzansky
Opens To Sell-Out Audience

By HENRY M. STROUSS

To a healthy supply of his own
original melodies, Steve Danzansky
has added a sprinkling of tunes by
Brahms, W. C. Handy, and Rimsky-
Korsakov, and adapted a plot by
Aristophanes to produce his rollick-
ing new SWMSFC musical “Heads or
Tails,” to be presented at the Troub-
adour Theatre nightly through Sat-
urday.

As the plot revolves around 125,-
000 Athenian women who go on a
love strike to keep their husbands
home from war, there are numerous
occasions throughout the evening
where Danzansky could have ar-
ranged a spectacle of debauchery
to rival any of those in the SWMSFC
minstrel show era. However, Dan-
zansky has used restraint by con-
centrating on the development of
entertaining characters, frequent
choral numbers, and colorful settings
to carry the audience interest. He
has allowed the ancient Greeks to
reveal his philosophy largely
through implication.

The standout performer in “Heads
or Tails” is Andy Leonard. Portray-
ing the Councilor of Athens, Gal-
lupolonius, he carries his role well
in every respect. The patter-like
delivery of his songs is extremely
precise and distinct. His facial ex-
pressions and his gesticulations as
he is defeated by the women’s plot
are superb.

As the cold, beautiful captain of
the women’s plot, Debbie Doherty is
most effective. Her handsome stage
bearing and sincere delivery keep
eyes glued to her every moment she
is on stage. That is, except when her
cousin from Sparta, played by Nancy
Duncan, is present. This “Southern
Belle” according to the plot had
had six husbands all killed off in
war. From the total exuberance of
Miss Duncan’s performance one
might conject that she wouldn’t
need a war to kill her husbands off!
The two best songs in the musical
are in her hands and she delivers
them with ease.

In “Make Hay While the Sun
Shines!” Miss Duncan presents the
play’s basic theme, and in “We’ve
Put a Hex on Sex,” closing with
a rousing chorus of “Zeus Bless our
Happy Home” that is hysterically
corny, she wraps the totally befud-

 

 

dled Gallupolonius around her fing-
ers with comic facility.

Cal deColigny’s rich voice help him
earry the musical’s major romantic
intrest. Tom Andrew is amusing
in his Oedipian affair with Valerie
Elbrick. As the elders on the Athen-
ian council Ned Ames and Wendy
Weed draw chuckles from the au-
dience. Robin Wood as the gallant
Spartan General makes us sorry his
part is so small. And to give the
play an up-to-date touch, there is
the Spartan spy Powerclese, (Fran-
cis G.), acted by Brack Dew.

The music in this year’s produc-
tion is much more effective than
in last year’s “Cannon’s Mouth.” The
effective use of a chorus is noted
particularly in the song that opens
the musical “There Are No Men
Left in Athens,” and “Let’s have an
Organized Orgy.” Also interesting is
the chorus “Things Look So Bad”
sung by the women to the tune of
the Volga Boatman with a descant,
a la Leonard Bernstein, sung by
Anne Houghton, Charlotte Turner
and Chris Christie.

Gene Johnson’s orchestra provides
a solid musical background for the
performance. The use of full orches-
tra on some numbers and the piano
rhythms of Ed Maupin on others
makes for interesting contrast and
allowed soloists to be better heard.

The settings based around a series
of marble columns are flexible and
attractive, as is the lighting by Wink
McKinnon.

This is not to say that the show
is perfect. Neither of the songs that
Debbie Doherty sings is very satis-
fying. This is too bad for she has
a powerful voice and could deliver
songs better suited to her voice with
considerable effect. At times the full
chorus scenes tend to seem clumsy,
but this is understandable consid-
ering that many of the chorus mem-
bers are making their first appear-
ance on the stage, and the large size
of the cast negotiating the tiny Troub
stage. These criticisms are slight,
however, when considered against
the play as a whole.

In fact the SWMSFC has positive
insurance for its musical, for how
could a more appropriate theme be
presented on a dance weekend than
“It’s Spring! So let’s make Hay while
the sun shines!!!”

 

College News Commands Spotlight

Congolese at Davidson?

From the Mary Baldwin
Campus Comments

The Board of Trustees at Davidson
College has decided to admit as
many as three qualified students
form the Congo to the Davidson,
N. C., school next year.

These admissions are to be under
Davidson’s regular program for
foreign students and would raise
the maximum number of foreign
students from 16 to 19.

Two years ago the Board of Trus-
tees presented their racial admissions
policy in one terse sentence: “It is
not in the best interests of David-
son College to admit Negroes at this
time.”

The recent action of the trustees
favoring the admission of Congo-
lese students was taken after an in-
quiry from the Board of World Mis-
sions of the Presbyterian Church
and after the student body asked
admittance of colored students to
their college.

The Congolese students will be
recommended by the World Missions
Board and will be subject to the nor-
mal admissions standards. The trus_
tees did not discuss the issue of
admitting American Negro students.

Wharton Makes Changes

Students at the Wharton School
of Finance and Commerce at the
University of Pennsylvania will be-

 

gin taking a heavier dose of liberal
arts courses next year.
Undergraduate business students
there will take only about one-third
of their courses in business, with
the remainder in physical and social
sciences, English, the languages, and
the humanities. Present students at
the Wharton school split their time
half-and-half between strictly busi-
ness courses and outside courses.

Liberal arts courses under the
new program will be taught with
attention to the special needs of
businessmen.

The revisions are the outgrowth of
a study begun in 1954 and represent
an overall broadening of Wharton’s
concept of business education. “Both
the quantity and quality of all
courses are being changed,” Dean
Willis J. Winn pointed out.

United States business schools
have been criticized by business ex-
ecutives, and in reports by the Ford
Foundation and the Carnegie Corp.,
for overemphasizing business and
vocational courses.

Foreign Students Complain

All foreign students who study
at United States colleges and _ uni-
versities may not be returning home
as good friends of this country. In
fact, our current effort to attract
foreigners to U.S. campuses “may
be causing as many headaches as
it’s curing,” the Wall Street Journal
reports.

(Continued on page 4)

 

rere PRET:

Chris Christie and John Towler during one of

aq Musical “Heads or Tails.”

 

TAO RRR R RNR AcnnaaRem ance.

   

Se

 

the scenes from the SWMSFC
—Photo by Young

 

A fund of $50,000, provided by an
anonymous donor, has been estab-
lished at Washington and Lee to
give scholarship assistance to stu-
dents preparing for medical careers,
President Fred C. Cole has an-
nounced.

Proceeds from the gift will sup-
port a scholarship fund, to be known
as the “J. W. Warner, M.D., Scholar-
ship Fund,” honoring the late Dr.
John W. Warner of Washington,
D.C., who received his undergrad-
uate degree at Washington and Lee
in 1903.

President Cole said the awards
will be given to upperclassmen maj-
oring in pre-medical studies who
possess “those exceptional qualifica-
tions, academic and_ otherwise,
needed to accept the immense re-
sponsibility and challenge of serv-
ing mankind through medicine.” The
amount of financial assistance will
be in accord with an individual’s
need, he added.

A recipient of Warner scholarship
funds may, at his option, be desig-
nated a “J. W. Warner, M.D., Schol-
ar,” President Cole explained. He
said the university expects to award
the first scholarships at the close
of the current semester.

“The importance of encouraging
promising young men to pursue ca-
reers in medicine cannot be over-
emphasized,” President Cole added.
“Recently, there has been a decline
in the number and quality of ap-
plications for admission to medical
colleges. This is due, in part, to the
extraordinary economic sacrifice re-
quired of men pursuing medical
careers. Many of our best students
and potentially our best doctors are,
for reasons beyond their control,
deterred by this prospect and turn
to other fields. Material encourage-
ment should be given to those young
men who elect to pursue this diffi-
cult road of life.”

“We are grateful to the anony-
mous benefactor who is making pos-
sible this expansion of Washington
and Lee’s scholarship resources in
an area of vital importance and in
honor of one of the university’s

 

 

News | Briefs

FOUND: in the Episcopal Parish
House, a gold Signet ring, with
initials WND.

There will be a meeting of Pi
Alpha Sigma on Tuesday, April 18,
at 7:30 p.m, in the Student Union,

There will be a meeting of the
Assimilation Committee tonight, at
7 p.m, in the Student Union,

 

 

Warner Scholarship Fund
To Aid Pre-Medical Students

most distinguished alumni,” Presi-
dent Cole said.

Dr. Warner, a gynecologist, was
head of the obstetrical division of
Washington’s Doctors’ Hospital at
the time of his death in 1946 at
age 63. He was a native of Rockville,
Md., and following graduation from
Washington and Lee, he _ taught
school at Charles Town, W. Va., for
two years before beginning his
medical studies at the College of
Physicians and Surgeons in New
York. He interned at Bellevue Hos-
pital and later became a resident
assistant in gynecology at New
York’s Roosevelt Hospital. As a
major in the U.S. Army Medical
Corps of the A.E.F., Dr. Warner
served in France in 1917-18 and
was decorated for his participation
as a surgeon in the Meuse-Argonne
campaign.

 

Lowry Speaks
Here At Noon

President Howard F. Lowry of
the College of Wooster, Wooster,
Ohio, will address the Phi Beta
Kappa-Cincinnati Convention to-
morrow at noon in Lee Chapel. His
speech will highlight the observance
of the 50th anniversary of the
Phi Beta Kappa chapter on this
campus. “Margins of Possibility” will
be the subject of his speech, deal-
ing with the problems of liberal arts
education.

Dr. Lowry, a native Ohioan, is a
noted author, editor and scholar of
English Literature. He was graduat-
ed with Phi Beta Kappa honors at
Wooster, and began his career of
teaching there. He received his Ph.D.
degree from Yale in 1931, and joined
the English department of Princeton
University.

He has authored several books,
among them are The Poetry of Mat-
thew Arnold, and An Oxford An-
thology of English Poetry. From
1935-41 he served as general editor
and educational manager of the
American branch of Oxford Uni-
versity Press. Returning to his alma
mater in 1944. Dr. Lowry assumed
the presidency of Wooster.

Dr. Lowry has been the recipient
of several degrees from colleges and
universities. He is a member of
the boards of directors of the Trus-
tees of the Carnegie Fund for the
Advancement of Teaching and of
Presbyterian Life Magazine.

President Lowry will also address
the new initiates of the national

Ahma

1Concert Set

 

academic fraternity at their annual |

initiation banquet.

|
}

d

3-5 Saturday

Dance Set President Bill Outman
announced the times for both the
Friday night dance and the Satur-
day concert today. The Friday night
dance will be held from 9 p.m. until
1 p.m.

The concert Saturday will be
held from 3-5 p.m. Outman re-
minded students that convention-
al dress is required at the concert,
and formal dress is required at
the Friday night dance.

Outman also said that Bill Bowen
and Bill Young, Ring-tum Phi pro-
tographers, will be at the Friday
night dance to take pictures for in-
terested persons.

Roy Goodwin, vice-president in
charge of publicity for the dance
set, urges all the vice-presidents of
the set to have pictures of their
dates to him by Wednesday after-
noon, Outman said.

 

Germaine Bree Analyzes
‘Reorientation’ Malraux
Camus, Sartre Sought

By TOM LYBASS

Andre Malraux, Jean-Paul Sartre,
and Albert Camus created a new
“framework of literary reference”
during the 1930’s and 40’s in order
to answer questions pertaining to
the social function of literature, Dr.
Germaine Bree told a duPont Au-
ditorium audience last night.

Dr. Bree, the internationally ac-
claimed critic of modern French
literature, said that Malroux, Sartre,
and Camus raised the “large ques-
tions” posed by all artists, namely
the writer’s place in society, the
significance of literature, the attri-
butes of a valid work of art, and
the nature of the application of the
artist’s principles.

“Proust was the first writer to
probe the problem of the validity
of art,” Dr. Bree said. This “new
and terrible idea” was considered at
length by Malraux, Sartre, and
Camus, but with differences of em-
phasis.

According to Camus, the artist
“lies, or has no purpose, who does
not take into account the suffering
brought about by history.”

“This new sense of the masses
and their suffering added a new di-
mension to the writer’s role, devel-
oping a historical sense which put
an end to the writing of fantasy,”
Dr. Bree explained.

Aware of the wide gap between
the image of man and the historical
reality, these three writers created a
literature of historical explanation
and solution. Each of them for a
time found inspiration in the Marian
ideology.

Because of the alarming aspects
of the twentieth century with its
globel violence, a double role for
the artist developed from the new
historical sense—the artist as a par-
ticipant in action and the artist as
artist.

New Heroes

“The new hero of the novel show-
ed that ideas were not comments on
events but driving forces pushing
man into action,” Dr. Bree said. In
this new role, the artist acquired
sensitivity for human beings.

“This sensitivity involved not
only new substances, but also new
tools, such as theme, vocabulary,
and form,” she said. “The artist
uses these tools most effectively
by withdrawing into solitude.”

“In reviewing the writings of Mal-
raux, Sartre, and Camus as a whole,”
Dr. Bree said, “this one sentence,
taken from the writings of Saint-
Jean Prese, says what these three
writers have moved toward say-
ing: ‘The hour is great and new, and
now, where we discover ourselves’.”

 

NOTICE

Spring registration begins Tues-
day, April 18, according to Reg-
istrar E. H. Howard,

 

Jamal

Vann Contracts

Night Club Star

By ROGER PAINE

Ahmad Jamal will play here
Saturday for the Spring Dances
concert at 3 p.m. Jim Vann, Dance
Board president, announced the jazz
musician’s signing after several days
of hectic work to obtain a satisfac-
tory piano for Jamal.

The subtle keyboard skill of
Ahmad Jamal, now famous through-
out the fast-growing world of con-
temporary jazz, was first heard with
George Hudson’s orchestra. Ahmad
broke away from that group a few
years later and formed his own
group, known then as Ahmad
Jamal’s Three Strings, and with
this trio he played throughout the
midwest and in New York.

Not ‘Cocktail Artist’

Music is the primary concern of
Ahmad Jamal, and music is what
his trio produces. Many of his fans,
notably Miles Davis, have objected
to accusations that Jamal is “mainly
a cocktail artist.” The force display-
ed by Jamal wherever he plays has
made his an increasingly popular
performer and has sold millions of
records on the Epic label, and later
on Argo, now on Columbia.

“Listen,” says Miles Davis, “to the
way Jamal makes space. He lets it
go so that you can feel the rhythm
section and the rhythm section can
feel you. It’s not crowded.” For
Jamal has, perhaps more than any
other contempory§ artist, made
expert use of the pause in music.
He plays sparely but with intense
dynamics and an incisive knowledge
of how important a period of musi-
cal silence can be if it is made to
work effectively. Jamal has surely
made it work so much so that he
has won in the space of a few short
years a following of millions all
over the world.

One noteworthy appreciation of
Jamal comes from Julian “Cannon-
ball” Adderley, one of Miles Davis’
former sidemen. In a record com-
mentary which appeared in “The
Jazz Review,” Adderley said: “The
whole thing just flows . . . I don’t
think it’s accurate to call Jamal a
‘cocktail pianist’ because I have
to listen to Ahmad. He commands
attention.”

Never Repeats

One of Jamal’s most unique fea-
tures is that he never plays a tune
the same way twice. He has explain-
ed that he keeps finding it possible
to express himself in new ways,
and even after playing a song a
hundred times he still manages to
put something new and different
into its presentation. “It’s true,” he
added, “that after a while, I usually
work out a particular approach to
each tune, but within that frame-
work, I never play it exactly the
same.”

It has been only in the past two
years that Jamal has found him-
self in hot demand throughout the
country. The initial spark of his
success was at the Embers in New
York, when he was using a guitar
instead of drums with his trio. His
real success began when he made
the change to the drums.

Jamal, above all, does not follow
fashion and trends. He is one of the
most controversial of the modern
jazz artists, but even his critics
have fully acknowledged his unique
flair of genius. Bassist Bill Crow
has said: “...his general concep-
tion has an undeniable charm. It is
that almost ingenuous, airy, relaxed
floating charm that serves to iden-
tify Jamal instantly, and that has
been the major factor in his large-
scale acceptance among the jazz
public.”

Being his own worst critic, Ahmad
Jamal is constantly improving and
changing his technique and style.
Because of this and the undeniable
individuality of his personality, both
in life and on the piano, it is cer-
tain that the concert this spring will
| be one of the most memorable in the
' history of the W&L social scene.

 
 

 

 

 

Page 2

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

Che KRing-tum Phi

Tuesday

Edition

Member of Virginia Intercollegiate Press Association

 

The Silly Season

“Spring makes all things young again save man’’—Rich-
ter’s oft-quoted words have never seemed more true to us than
this year. Maybe it’s a reaction against the weatherman’s singu-
lar unwillingness to let the season begin, but Americans seem
recently to have perfected the art of taking the ridiculous ser-

iously.

Witness the recent Fort Lauderdale debacle. Millions of
parents and a large group of college administrators dreamed
of reprisals to come as they grumbled in front of their television
sets with the wind whistling outside. “It’s disgraceful,” they
said with a suitably righteous look. Meanwhile Judge Raymond
A. Doumar, nourished by the more beneficent Florida climate,
chose to release 84 of the 85 miscreants jailed in Fort Lauder-
dale. His tolerance was not repeated when the offending stu-
dents arrived back to their still-frozen campuses.

Meanwhile, our purposeful leaders at Washington and Lee
managed to get worked into a rare dither. Offended liberals
and moderates called for investigations of the John Birch So-

ciety while Barry Goldwater,

the All-American Boy from

Arizona, rose to defend the erstwhile anti-Communists. An-
other All-American Boy, Attorney-General Robert Kennedy,
perhaps luckier because his father has a place at Palm Beach,
refused to worry about the Birchites, calling them “ridiculous,”

which they certainly are.

However, one Peter Breastrup, an intrepid reporter for the
New York Times, saw a pattern in the news. He wrote an article
for Sunday’s Times which places the Birch Society at the base
of all right-wing sentiment in the United States. They are evi-
dently the driving force behind all conservative sentiment in
the United States, a vast league which includes the American
Nazi Party, the National Association of Manufacturers, the
National Review, Barry Goldwater, the American Legion, Wil-
liam F. Buckley, the White Citizen’s Councils, “newly-rich
Texas oilmen,” and the Chamber of Commerce. These “right-
wing extremists’? are special admirers of General Franco and
Chiang Kai-shek. All this with a straight face!

Frankly we’re overwhelmed by it all. But we’ve been too

busy thinking about the start
races to do much about it.

of the major league pennant

 

Guideline To U.S. African Policy
Calls For Striking Tough Balance
Among Many Competing Forces

By GEORGE BIRDSONG

Several weeks ago the forces
which form the complex African
situation were presented in a similar
article. One might now ask what our
foreign policy should be in light of
these forces of nationalism, anti-
colonialism, tribalism, Pan-African-
ism, and the problem of the “power
vacuum” and how it will be filled.

First, we must be specific with re-
spect to the policy of anti-colonial-
ism. In the Portuguese colonies of
Angola and Mozambique the govern-
ment must be pressured to expand
opportunities for Africans and pre-
pare them for self-government. A
step in this direction was taken last
week when the U-S. lined up with
USSR, and three Afro-Asian dela-
gations on a resolution calling for
reforms in Angola.

In the past the U.S. has almost
always voted with its NATO allies
on colonial issues. On this question,
however, the U.S. not only split with
Britain and France, but it sharply
challenged Portugal’s attitude of
non-co-operation with the U.N. on
its African territories. Such a policy
was called for in the last ar-
ticle when it was stated that “we
must line up with aspirations of
the African nations or be shut out of
Africa. Thus we must bridge the gap
between pleasing our European al-
lies who have been the colonial
powers and the African states who
are violently anti-colonial.” A step
in the right direction has thus been
made.

Concerning “French” Algeria,
de Gaulle has already given the
option of total independence.
de Gaulle’s a realist and knows this
must be done. All we can do is help
and encourage him to do what he
knows must be done. Moral pressure
should be sufficient.

In Northern and Southern Rho-
desia Britain is trying to do a good,
honest job, and our policy should
encourage them. The Union of South
Africa is perhaps the worst problem
because there appears to be no
change in sight for Vorwoerd’s
racial apartheid policy. We can only
stand against apartheid strongly in
the U.N. and hope that a change
in this policy will come before an
inevitable civil war of blacks against
whites.

Second, we must relate our
strength to Africa’s weakness. Afri-
can colonialism was thus related, but
often without respect to justice. The
U.S. must relate its strength to
Africa through educational, tech-

 

nological, and economic aid always
mindful not to use such aid there
as a goal for political power in it-
self...a very difficult task.

Africa Remains Undecided

Third we must maintain maximum
access to a maximum number of
African states. Some people might
say it is time to choose sides in
Africa and find out which states
are for us and which are against
us. These people say we should make
the Africans choose now between
socialism and private enterprise,
totalitarianism and democracy, and
either be on the side of USSR or the
U.S. These people must realize that
Africa is neither ready nor willing
to make such a choice. Moreover, we
should not even force them into such
a position, because few if any Afri-
can states could make a clear cut
decision on these issues.

We should put out as many hands
as possible in African and be thank-
ful that we have access to these
African states. Futhermore, these
hands should be not only govern-
mental, but also private and individ-
ual efforts We must realize that many
African states want to be neutral
and receive benefits from both sides
as India is doing. Africa is not on
the periphery of Russia and not
necessary to our defense against
the USSR. African neutralism, there-
fore, should be agreeable for us and
we should not even try to line them
up in political alliance.

Fourth, we must recognize that the
African desires the responsibility to
settle his own disputes. We should
not get involved in them if possible.
But if involvment is unavoidable,
we should work through the United
Nations. Even this policy will have
difficulties as is evident by the recent
actions of Congolese leaders (even
“pro-Western” ones such as Kasavu-
bu) revealing their desire to settle
their own matters without U.N. in-
terference.

Perhaps never before has USS.
foreign policy been more important
than it is today, with the whole
African continent at stake. It’s an
immense challenge.

 

Notice

The Law School will hold a mock
trial April 19, a civil suit arising
out of an automobile accident. Un-
dergraduates interested in serving
on the jury should contact Warren
Welch immediately.

 

Webster Unabridged

 

Steve Danzansky: The Way He Works

By ED WEBSTER

Now that the SWMSFC musical,
“Heads or Tails,” is playing nightly
to large audiences, Steve Danzansky
won't be much in evidence. But for
the last eight weeks of grueling re-
hearsals, he’s been the heart of the
show.

He spent the summer writing the
script and doing the music and lyrics
for the songs. (He wrote 20 songs,
is using 14.) His next step was to
assemble a cast and orchestra—a
group of about 150 people.

Having got his raw material to-
gether, he molded it into shape. He’d
shuffle people around on the stage,
and then run to the back of the
theatre and holler, “All right, now
I'm the audience. Take it from Scene
3; let’s see how I like it.”

Occasionally he'd run back up
on the stage to show someone just
what gestures to use. He’d even
simulate applause and laughter to

LETTERS

\ J IT Pe

DitTO

To the Editor of the Ring-tum Phi
Washington and Lee University,
Lexington, Virginia

Dear Sir:

Your editorial of March 21 on the
Honor System as practiced at
Washington and Lee University in-
vites a response from one who does
not believe in this system and, be-
cause of his interest in your Univer-
sity, would like to see it abolished
at Washington and Lee.

You write, “He who accepts the
benefit of the Honor System is mor-
ally bound to report any suspected
violation. This can in no way be
construed as spying or tale-bearing.
It is the finest expression of loyalty
to a cherished tradition of honor
among a community of self-govern-
ing students.”

The vulnerable heart of the Honor
System is its rule that a student must
report any student he sees cheating.
I strenuously disagree with your
statement that such reporting can-
not be construed as_tale-bearing.
Telling on another is so contrary to
what a boy is brought up to think
of as fair play that one wonders how
the Honor System has ever worked
or can ever hope to work under such
conflicting circumstances. A tattle-
tale has always been looked down
upon, not only by the boys among
themselves but by the teachers of
boys. It has become through custom
a matter of honor not to tell on
another. Which comes first, loyalty
to a system or loyaltiy to a friend?
A man should never be put in the
position of crucifying his friend. Give
the policeman job to an elder, to a
teacher in the classroom, never to a
classmate and friend.

The procedural aspects of the Hon-
or System remind me of the Spanish
Inquisition. Not only do they sound
like it but, from instances brought to
my attention, they are living repli-
cas of it.

Today brings a great challenge to
Washington and Lee. Many believe

 

the Ivy League’s criteria for admis-.

sion to their group of colleges are
unjust. Washington and Lee bene-
fits by accepting young men with
excellent background who are re-
jected by the Ivy League and has
great opportunity to show what can
be made of this first-rate material.

I am sure that all of the young men
of Washington and Lee are getting
a good education but I am also sure
that their education would be even
better without the Honor System.
Eisenhower, Byrd and Nixon are
passe, so is this archaic institution.
I would like to see Washington and
Lee accelerate its maturity and
stride forward to the New Frontier!

A Southerner

Che Ring-tium Phi
Tuesday Edition

The Ring-tum Phi is published Tues-
day and Friday during the college year.
It is printed hy the Journalism Labor-
atory Press. Washington and Lee Uni-
versity. The mailing address is Box
899, Lexington, Va,

Entered as second class matter Sep-
tember 20, 1946 at the Post Office, Lex-
ington, Va., under the act of March
. 6.

National Advertising Representative:
The National Advertisers Service, Inc.,
420 Madison Ave., New York, N.Y.

rst Rosewell Page, III
Business Manager.............. Huntley Biggs
Editorial Board
Managing Editor................... Bill Roberts

Assistant Managing Edi

 
 
   

News Editor
Sports Editor...
Associate Editors...

Photography Editor.................. Bill Young
Advertising Manager.......... Jerome Dattel
Circulation Manager........ Peter Agelesto

to give the actors a sense of timing.

Now and then he’d give a little
speech to pep up the cast.

“T want to explain what you're
doing here,” he said to them a few
weeks ago. “In a show of this sort,
you must have fun. This is a farce:
every character is a typed character.
There can’t be any subtlety in a
farce.

“You have to exaggerate. You
have got to talk louder. We've seen
the show; we know it can be good.
Now I want you to make it great.”

Steve lives and breathes his show.
His enthusiasm for it is contagious.
When he demands that a line or a
gesture be executed perfectly, the
cast keeps trying until perfection is
reached.

He began work on “Heads or Tails”
early last summer; the “Lysistrata”
theme resulted from a suggestion by
his father.

By HUGO HOOGENBOOM

It is becoming daily more ap-
propriate to remember that one of
the few major differences between
Nixon and Kennedy was on foreign
policy, with Kennedy seeming to
advocate a milder policy toward
the Soviet. Then, as the Laotian
crisis grew worse, Kennedy startled
(and pleased) the world with a firm

 

Steve did research on Greece, and
read several versions of Aristo-
phane’s play. Meanwhile he was tak-
ing music courses at Catholic U.

“To the Greeks,” he says, “the
humor was that women, who were
inferior, would be able to take over
the government.”

To a modern audience, however,
the humor arises from the men’s
loss of “marital privileges.”

The whole idea of the musical,
says Steve, is anti-rational. He is
sympathic to the women’s scheme;
they succeed in defeating the men
who want “heads” to rule.

He also includes a little satire on
current situations. (Come to think
of it, the whole theme is a satire on
the battle of the sexes, a battle which
has changed little since the days of
Aristophanes.)

Gallupolonius (Andy Leonard), a
Rex Harrison type, was not in “Ly-

 

sistrata”; his name comes from

Laos Reveals Foreign Policy
JEK Talks Tough, Carries Tiny Stick

statement that we would not tolerate
Communist aggression in Laos, and
explained to Americans the probable
disastrous results of a Communist
victory in Laos.

All this was done in a rhetoric
reminiscent of Franklin D. Roose-
velt. Many of us thought that at last
this country had a firm decisive
leader who could clearly state his

 

By STEVE HENRY

Siegfred, the pert and proper pres-
ident of the University’s Social
Functions Board, collapsed on his
cot in the fraternity house and began
to cry.

He cried so long and so loud that
he finally woke up his roomie, Elmo,
who was somewhat disturbed be-
cause he had never seen Siegfred
without a smile on his face.

“Anything wrong,  Siegfred?”
ventured Elmo.
| “Alas, woe is me,” wailed Sieg_
‘fred. “I am a failure.”

“Not so,” responded Elmo. “If you,
Siegfred, were a failure, you would
not be a big man on campus as
you are now. No failure could be
Social Functions President and a
member of the honor court at the
same time. Not to mention the ‘good
guy of the year’ award from the
faculty. Why do you think you are
a failure?”

“Because I have failed in a matter
of great importance to the univer-
sity,” sighed Siegfred, wiping away
a tear. “The annual Spring Frolics
week-end is rapidly approaching.
‘The student body will be ready for
!a gala time. And I have failed them
| miserably.”
| “What do you mean?” asked Elmo,

his curiosity whetted by the very
mention of Spring Frolics, called
| by many sources the “most collegiate
' social event in the world.”
“I mean simply this. Guy Lom-
bardo has broken his promise to
| play at Frolics this year. He will
not leave the Roosevelt under any
| condition, not even for the $25,000 I
' worked so hard to raise in order to
lure him to our fair campus. Alack,
alas, where have I failed?”

Siegfred rolled over on his stom-
ach and began crying louder than
ever.

“But Siegfred ...” began Elmo.

“And after I had personally con-
ducted 27 fund-raising drives to
get the money. I wanted so badly to
make this week-end even better than
the Snow Carnival, when we had
that wonderful Dixieland group
everyone was so crazy about.”

“But Siegfred...”

“How disappointed the students
will be in me. All their dreams for
a glorious college-type weekend
shattered. I shall never show my
face on campus again. How callous
Mr. Lombardo must be to hurt so
many.”

“Will you shut your face?” yelled
Elmo.

“Oops, did I interrupt. So sorry,
old boy,” blushed Siegfred.

“Just answer me one question,
Siegfred, old boy. I am a tweedy
dresser, a fair athlete, a procurer of
fine women, the son of a factory
owner. Am I then, or am I not, a
typical red-blooded American col-
lege male.”

“You are indeed,” answered Sieg-
fred.

“Ah, then, as an average college
male, let me clue you in on some,
thing. Nobody but nobody cares
whether you have Guy Lombardo

 

 

 

Siegfred Suffers, Abolishes Board,
Becomes Biggest Man On Campus

or not because they’re not going to
the dance anyway. All we want to do
is have a good time, and Guy Lom-
bardo does not fit into our plans at
all.”

“What are you saying?” asked
Siegfred incredulously.

“Just that you can take Guy Lom-
bardo and everything like him and
stick...”

“No, don’t say it,” screamed Sieg-
fred and buried his head under the
pillow.

“Don’t take it so hard, Siegfred,”
laughed Elmo. “It’s been this way
for a long time, only no one ever told
you about it before. We hate dances.”

“No, no, no!” weeped Siegfred.

“Look at it this way, Siegfred,”
continued Elmo. “You have succeed-
ed in accomplishing something
everyone has wanted since 1950. By
failing to get an orchestra, you’ve
knocked out the dances. Take the
money, return it to the students for
use over the week-end. You will be
acclaimed a campus hero. You will
enjoy even greater prestige on cam-
pus, and you will know in your
heart that you alone have made the
student body happy through your
failure.”

“Do you really think so,” asked
Siegfred, beginning to perk up a
bit.

“T know so. You, Siegfred, will be
the biggest man on campus—a hero
in your own times.”

“Then I’ll do it,” shouted Siegfred.
He assumed his normal smile bound-
ed out of the house, leaped on his
tricycle, and fled away in the di-
rection of the faculty social com-
mittee’s office.

“A good afternoon’s’ work,”
yawned Elmo, and returned to the
pad.

 

Notice

Carter Fox, president of the senior
class, announced today that gradu-
ation invitations will not be in until

 

the week before final examinations.

“Gallup Poll.”

In Act I, Powerclese, a Spartan
farmer accused of spying, is a satire
on Francis G. Powers.

The real value of the show,
Steve feels, comes in seeing 150
people, of all backgrounds and in-
terests, “working toward one goal
with no faculty supervision.”

Steve probably has enough talent
and drive to make a career of the-
atrical work. But, he says, “I’ve seen
how those people live. It’s not for
me.”

Instead, he’ll go to law school, and
then practice law.

Fellow students long ago noticed
that Steve has extraordinary powers
of application. Surely the incredible
hours that he has devoted to the
musical, the months of untiring
creativity, and his magnetic enthus-
iasm, seem to indicate that this
fellow has a mental gift that most of
us can envy.

Weakness;

principles.

What has happened since those
dramatic headlines? In news stories
not nearly so blackly bannered, we
read that the formula for peace in
Laos is to be a coalition government.
Presumably this sort of settlement
will also integrate the Pathet Lao
and Kong Le’s forces into the regu-
lar Laotian army.

The history of coalition govern-
ments which have included Com-
munists is unhappy. Czechoslovakia
should have been the last example
we needed of that. A coalition gov-
ernment would seem to be the surest
way of giving Laos to the commun-
ists. But even if the coalition should
work, as soon as the Communists
are sure they’ll not win that way,
the insurrection will begin again,
only more fiercely, for they will
have been able to infiltrate much
deeper into Laos.

In other words, the proposals of
the Kennedy Administration will
just postpone (and not for long) the
Communist take-over in Laos. At
best they will result in renewed war
at a later date (not much later,
though). The practical application
of policy and the soul-stirring an-
nouncements might have come from
two different people for all the re-
lation that they have.

This seems to be the pattern for
the new president: stirring speech
and contrary action. This I suppose,
is what we deserve when we elect a
president on his skill as a debater.

The difficulty is probably that with
Eisenhower we had fumbling policy
combined with utter inability to use
the English language. When Ken-
nedy demonstrated that he spoke
well and clearly, we expected his
policies to be firm and clear, too.
The sophists are in and Socrates is
right.

Another indication of weakness
in Kennedy foreign policy is the de-
cision not to word the Hungarian
resolution so as to annoy the Soviet
Union. While resolutions in the U.N.
are weak things, they give some sort
of indications on how we stand.
Strongly against Portugal; strongly
against South Africa; weakly against
the Soviet Union. Assuming that all
three have acted wrongly why the
difference? It serves our porposes
best not to annoy the bear. It is
expedient.

If expediency is to be the keystone
of our foreign policy vis-a-vis the
Soviet Union, then we are indeed no
better than they. Khrushchev can
talk just as ringingly about justice,
etc., as Kennedy can. The difference
is that the United States is supposed
to act as it speaks.

 

 

 

          
   

PEANUTS Vayereumt 4

ANYONE WILL BE
WATCHING OUR

   

  
   
 

WELL, I IMAGINE \/1'LL BE OUT
WE'LL HAVE A }/IN CENTER
FEW SPECTATORS, /| FIELD WON'T
FRIEDA.. IT?

       

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

FROM THAT DISTANCE DO

YOU THINK PEOPLE WILL BE
ABLE TO TELL THAT I HAVE
| NATURALLY CURLY HAIR?

 

 

 

 
 

+ RR

THE RING-TUM PHI

Page 3

 

Sluggers

Hobbs, Way
Star In 9-6 Win

The Washington and Lee Generals
exploded for five runs in the eishth
inning as they blasted Norfolk Wil-
liam and Mary Monday on Smith
Field.

Down 5-4 when they left the field,
the Generals suddenly came to life
at the plate. Second baseman Park
Gilmore led off with a walk, and
pitcher Penn Way beet out a bunt.
Robin Wood fled out, then third
beseman Chuck “The Panther”
Lene sineled to drive in Gilmore
and send Way, to third. Ned Hobbs
followed with another single to
bring in Way, and Bobby Williams
drove Lene home with the third
straight single for the Generals.

Hobbs scored on a wild pitch, and
Roy Carpenter got the fourth single
in a row to score Williams with the
fifth run.

Way, who relieved started Phil
Sharp efter the fifth, faltered in the |
ninth, but Carpenter moved from
first to the mound to preserve the
win. It was Way’s first victory of
the season; his record now stands
at 1-0.

The Braves scored once in the,

Jim Russ slides into second

 

As Norfolk man tries to pick him off

 

—Photo by Young

Down Norfolk Team: Record Now 3-2

 

W&L Trackmen Smash East Carolina, 102-37
In Spite Of Cold And Wind Monday

A bracing north wind and a soggy
track gave no quarter to the Gener-
als’ thin-clads yesterday, but they

managed to ride rough-shod over |}
the squad from East Carolina by the|j

lop-sided score of 102 5/6 to 37 1/6.
Depth and more extensive training

gave the Generals a decided ad-'
vantage over the unprepared and od

unsuspecting Carolina team, which
could only place six men in the
16 events.

Coach Norm Lord’s cindermen
managed, on the other hand to
sweep 5 events, the high hurdles,
the 2 mile run, the shot put, the
discus, and the broad jump.

The strong cold wind and soggy |{'
track prevented any outstanding per- |’
formances, but several events show- |‘
ed good strength considering the).
circumstances and may be a barom-|;

eter of things to come when the gods

number one scoring position of the |)

of weather shine more brightly on re

the local scene.

Jim Hickey raced to the finish
(Continued on page 4)

 

 

Jim Hickey ri head start on ‘et ‘Cavciios man in yesterday’s snd
| meet.

 

 

first, but the Generals came back®
for two on Wood’s single, Hobbs’ |
triple to center and Williams’ single.
The Braves scored two in the sec-
ond, and tallied again in the fourth. |
W&L scored in the fifth to bring the |
score to 4-3, and each team tallied
once in the sixth. Then came the
explosive seventh, in which the Gen-
erals sent 10 men to the plate. Nor-
folk scored in the ninth to bring
the final score to 9-6.

The Generals have now won their
last three in a row, and carry a 3-2
record. The Braves are now 8-3. }

Captain Ned Hobbs led the Gen-
erals’ attack, breaking out of a
slump to garner two hits, including
a triple, in three trips. He also
drew a walk, batted in two runs and
scored three himself. Lane and
Williams also had two RBI's.

In the field, Buck Rose made a
spectacular shoestring catch in right
to choke off a Norfolk rally in the
ninth.

The Generals next game will be
with Bridgewater College this Fri-
dey afte afternoon at Bridgewater.

 

Netmen Beat |
Lynchburg Six

Last Saturday the Washington
and Lee netmen soundly trounced
the Lynchburg College squad 8-1 on
Lynchburg’s home courts.

Highlights of the win were the RAY ROBRECHT

 

'HUFF, MISS VIRGINIA APPEAR

Ray Robrecht Wins Match At The First Annual Sports Show

Ray Robrecht, Washington and
Lee’s one man boxing team, scored
another win to add to his record
last Saturday night at the first an-
nual Youth Fitness and Sports Show
held Friday and Saturday in the
VMI Fieldhouse. Robrecht’s fight
was just one part of the many events
which were demonstrated at the
sports show.

 

Coming Events

SPORTS THIS WEEK

 

 

TRACK
E Thurs.—Richmond....................... There
_, Fri.-Sat—Quantico ..............0... There
LACROSSE
| Gat —BRALEMOLE oonicsccesecssencsssscooeese There
BASEBALL |
' Fri —Bridgewater ...............0.000 There
GOLF
| Thurs.—Lynchburg_.................000 Here
|
i TENNIS
Feo Washington .......... Here
J.V. LACROSSE
| I, ovis cisntsccscsstormczcsreensvess -eHlere

 

strong comeback John Mills made

le ale le ale slo ale ale le ole ale cle ole le Bo Me le he he he Be Be Be te le le de le le te Be Be tae
7

 

*
%
%
%
&

after dropping his first set, and,
Clark Valentiner’s close defeat
at the hands of Lynchburg’s Berry.

Otherwise the Generals were
ahead all the way, in evening their
record at 1-1 this season. Scores:
MeWilliams, 6-1, 6-1; Valentiner,
517, 4-6; Baker, 6-4, 6-2; Mills, 3-6,

 

6-2, 6-0; and Wilbourne, 6-2, 6-4. HO 3-3622
NOTICE *
Anyone interested in renewing

their Red Cross instructor certifi-
cates should contact Charles Arnold

Se ste sha se Se te a tha Ba Te Ba Be Ba Ba Bate tha Be Bade Bale
he ae he ae ae

ee ee See

Shirt Service as You Like it

Quality Cleaning and Pressing
UNIVERSITY CLEANERS

“Your Campus Neighbors”

Se Me te he Ba Be te ie Bee Ma te tha Ba Ba Bae Batts Bada Be
Se la le i he eh a i he he a a a ae

she s¥e ste cle he ale the

 

at the VMI Athletic Department. |**

she ale he Ne Sete Mele Bete te Be Be tae tate ee %
eS ee See SS eS Se

 

$
-

"et "a" "a? Pa Pat EP

 

The course begins April 24.

 

 

 

Green Valley Motel
College Outlines

Hymarx Outlines
Made Simple Series

One Mile North on
U. S. Highway No. 11

rrr

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA

rrr

WANT TO CUT SHORT THE STUDY???

try our

The Book Shop

W. Washington Street

Barrons Series
Data Guides
Vocabulary Cards

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

>

>

HO 3-2195

>

h
Lees ereereneeadeomnnd
+ Og
? White’s Music?
* ites USIC ¢
*~ %
: @ :
* tore :
: (Opposite State Theater)
+ ”
t . t
: $
* Phonographs—Hi-Fi +
: +
% Expert Repair Service }
* *
* *
z fe + |
: ;
+ 5 W. Nelson St. Lexington, Va. 5 |
|
: HO 3-3522 * |

; + | Member

* &
Bede teole footed befell oteoteote ote oboe oteotestesteee

 

 

STUDENTS ACCOUNTS INVITED HERE

F.D. 1. C.

 

 

 

The main attraction at the show
was Sam Huff, the all-pro line-
backer for the New York Giants,
who during the off-season travels
extensively in making personal ap-
pearances. Appearing with Huff
was a host of other personalities
including Cathy Birch “Miss Vir-
ginia of 1960” and “Mr. Fitness,”
Art Levin who has a television
show on Roanoke station WDBJ-
Tv.

Huff officially opened the show
and presented a trophy to the win-
ning band in the pre-opening parade
through the town of Lexington.

The first night’s fare called for a

,modern dance performance by a
group from Sweet Briar College, a

fashion show, a skit by Miss Birch,
'a fitness demonstration and a gym-

nastics demonstration by Mr. and

Mrs. Roger Webb.

A group from Washington and
Lee exhibited their skills on the
trampoline and a football demon-

Loe SEES R REE be
THE NEW

White Top

Restaurant
*

he ofe oe fe of fe of

A personal invitation
to the
Students
Try our delicious foods
Route 60 East

 

re
\
le
e
‘e
Ye
¥
le
.
%
e
le
%
\
~
a
¥
a
5
\
4
.
.
a
i.
f
a
.
%
%
%
\e
ke

Me oe oe oe oho oe ole oe of of of ole oho abe oho fe oe af oe ae fe ofeage

stration was given by several
members of the VMI squad.

The fieldhouse was filled with
booths exhibiting everything from
sports cars to fishing gear and all
were open for inspection by the
huge crowds which attended the
two-day show. Special exhibits in-
cluded the Blue Field Archery
course and a trout fishing pond.

Saturday’s entertainment  sche-
dule included a fly casting exhibition
by Curtis Weaver, a football demon-
stration featuring a former Wash-
_ington and Lee all-Southern quar-
terback, Gil Bocetti; a fencing dem-
onstration by a VMI group, and a
demonstration of skiing techniques

 

by Sepp Kober of the Homestead
and a former Olympic skier.

Other demonstrations included
those in calesthenics, soccer, judo,
basketball, gymnastics, three boxing
matches including that of Robrecht
which was a decision match.

A summation of the whole show
could be found in Sam Huff's first
reaction, “It’s like a county fair.”

 

 

LEXINGTON
CLEANERS

Phone HO 3-3813 108 S. Jefferson

 

 

 

 

The Southern Inn

Cordially invites you to make this your headquarters for good food
Here you get the best food for the most reasonable prices

Our Specialties:

Steaks, Chicken, Country Ham, and the best sandwiches
in town

Meet your friends here

 

 

 

 

 

Open a convenient student Checking account
TODAY

at

Rockbridge National Bank

Member Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation

 

 

 

 
       
   
    
    

BANLON “PAR”

for the man of action

This new luxury knit by Arrow gives to the active or
spectator sportsman unequaled comfort, quality and
good looks. In addition to complete freedom of action

it is the perfect wash and wear knitted sport
shirt. Careful tailoring is obvious in the
fashion ribbed collar and classic
placket design. This value shirt

is available in a wide variety
of colors.

$5.95

=~ARROW-

From the

* “Cum Laude Collection”
Page 4

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

Nicholas Nyardi

Dr. Nicholas Nyardi, a director of
the School of International Studies
at Bradley University, will speak
at Washington and Lee Friday, at
10:15 a.m. in duPont auditorium. His
lecture, “Shall We Survive?” will
be drawn from his experience as a
former Hungarian Minister of Fi-
nance. Dr. Nyardi is being presented
by the Lectures Committee of the
University.

Born and educated in Hungary,
Dr. Nyardi has degrees in Political
Science and Law from the Royal
Hungarian University of Budapest.

During World War II Dr. Nyardi
was active in the underground
movement against the Nazis in Hun-
gary. After the war he spent seven
months in Moscow, negotiating a
Russian reparation claim against
Hungary. It was during these con-
ferences that Dr. Nyardi came to

 

Foreign Exchange Students
(Continued from page 1)

The Journal says that many stu-
dents who come here from abroad
have serious financial troubles, which
are not helped any by the greater
affluence of their American class-
mates. The foreigners find it diffi-
cult to obtain a job in the USS.

African students, _ particularly,
complain of racial discrimination
here. Others report that they are
not accepted in college social ac-
tivities. Some schools note a ten-
dency for foreign students to band
together outside of class.

Many colleges find themselves ad-
mitting students who are unpre-
pared, or who are just out for a
good time, because of outside pres-
sure. Inadequate command of Eng-
lish for American lectures is a real
problem.

There are many fine, new univer-
sities in Africa, and the leaders of
Ghana, for one nation, have de-
plored the large percentage of their
ablest students who seek their high-
er education abroad.

 

Notices

There will be a meeting of all
staff members of the Tuesday edi-
tion of the Ring-tum Phi on
Thursday, April 13, at 2 p.m. in
The Student Union. Sports re-
porters are urged to be present at
this meeting.

 

 

STANLEY WARNER

STATE

LEXINGTON, VA.
|_NOBART 3-3424 |

 

 

HELD OVER
Matinee 2 p.m.—Evening 7:45 p.m.

 

pp
SALUTING THE CIVIL WAR CENTENNIAL!

RRR RE RARKRRRER

The Love Story That Thrilled Millions!

yo Damp o.seuMicks
MARGARET MITCHELLS

SPOR / OF IME C&D SOUTH
Academy

GONE WITH
THE WIND 2
my CLARK GABLE
VV LEIGH

 LESLE HOWARD
“OWA de SILAND

A SELZNICK INTERNATIONAL

   
  
  
  

 

 

 

° Finest
: SUNDAY

Choice Meats
Ww

Route 60 Buena Vista

To Speak Friday

know personally more Soviet lead-
ers than practically any other states-
man or diplomat.

Dr. Nyardi also is the author of
the book, My Ringside Seat in Mos-
cow.

 

Art Collection Shown

The permanent collection of the
Department of Fine Arts at Wash-
ington and Lee University went on
display in the duPont exhibition
hall yesterday.

The collection consists of some
35 prints and painting which have
been acquired through gifts of art
works or funds from alumni and
friends.

Among friends and alumni who
have aided the department in ac-
quiring its collection are Dr. Ber-
nard Kroneberg of New York, who
contributed a painting by Jaffe
Kimball; alumni Henry Hecht and
Chris Hutchins, who contributed
funds used to purchase prints; and
alumnus Jerry Donovan, who gave
a Philip Perkins original.

 

Chamber Musical Recital

The Blue Ridge Chamber Music
Players will present a program of
classical and contemporary music
in Lee Chapel Wednesday night at
8:15. The program will feature
Haydn’s Concerto in D. Major for
piano and chamber orchestra, per-
formed by Anne McClenny of the
Hollins musie faculty, and John
Diercks’ Sonata for violin and piano.
Mr. Diercks, also of the Hollins
faculty and a well-known composer,
will play his Sonata with Douglas
Vaughan, violinist.

Other compositions to be perform-
ed are the Concerto, Op. 6, No. 1 by
Corelli and Five Pieces for Strings,
Op. 44, No. 4 by Paul Hindemith.

The program is under the direction
of Robert Stewart, Associate Profes-
sor of Music and Fine Arts. Admis-
sion is free.

 

 

|B ae Re

TUES.-WED.

DEBORAH YUL
KERR BRVNNER )

 

    
 

m ANATOLE LITVAK’S PRODUCTION oF

ta

 

 

 

 

 

: MYERS :
: HARDWARE :
* COMPANY :

 

 

Radio Hospital
*
Radio, TV, Phonograph
Sales and Service

*

HO 3-3531

 

 

 

Se
SSCSHESSHSOSSSSSSSSSSSSSHSSSSSSSSSSSSSHOSOHESSSEOOHE

Ted’s Steak House

Foods

DINNERS

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ROCKBRIDGE LAUNDRY

and
Dry Cleaners

Shirts Transparently Wrapped
for Freshness
*
AGENTS:

Fraternities, Dorms and Co-op

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

  
  
   

MONDAY 15 OUR)
FIRST GAME, AND I
FEEL LXE LEAVING
THE QWNTRY!

 

[MA JUST NOT CUT OUT TO BE
A MANAGER, T GUESS..... MY
ISHOULDERS ARENT BROAD ENOUGH. .

 

 

 

 

YOU MEAN YOURE NOT READY
TO ASSUME THE “MANTLE
OF RESPONSIBILITY” 2

       

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

BEFORE ITWILLFITME, THE ||
"MANTLE OF RESPONSIBILITY ” WILL
NEED CONSIDERABLE ALTERATION! |

 

 

 

 

  

 

Beta Gamma Sigma Initiates Six

Two honorary members and four
student members were initiated into
Washington and Lee’s chapter of
Beta Gamma Sigma Friday in a
ceremony involving an unusual
father-son honor.

Courtney R. Mauzy, vice president
and trust officer of the Charlotte,
N. C., office of the Wachovia Bank
and Trust Company, and Courtney,
Jr., a senior honor student at Wash-
ington and Lee, were honored sim-
ultaneously by the national society
for students of business administra-
tion.

The Mauzy’s profess to a friendly,
intra-family rivalry which stems
from the fact that the father gradu-
ated from the University of Vir-
ginia, while the son chose Wash-
ington and Lee. The rivalry is likely
to continue, for after graduate school

 

at either the University of Virginia
or Cornell, the younger Mauzy will
join the North Carolina National
Bank, a chief competitor of the
father’s bank.

Others honored at Friday’s ini-
tiation were Earl S. Mattingly, treas-
urer of Washington and Lee, and
three students: Stephen H. Paley,
Washington, D.C., Stephen W. Rut-
ledge, Seattle, Washington; and Har-
ry S. Wilbourn, Little Rock, Ark.

Beta Gamma Sigma which has
chapters only in institutions ac-
credited by the American Associa-
tion of Collegiate Schools of Busi-
ness, admits students with out-
standing academic records in busi-
ness studies. Only the upper ten
per cent of a class is eligible. The
fraternity was founded at the Uni-
versity of Wisconsin in 1913,

 

 

 

The First National Bank

of Lexington
*
has special checking accounts

for students

 

 

 

Cid Corman Reads Here Tonight;
Publisher Of Many ‘Beat’ Poets

Mr. Cid Corman will read his
poetry tonight at 9 p.m. in the Stu-
dent Union. While Mr. Corman has
been classified as a ‘beat’ poet, he
prefers to be considered as an ex-
ponent of the contemporary idiom
in poetry.

Mr. Corman has lived for a con-
siderable time in Japan and is
now visiting the United States for
two years to “find out what is
happening on the American scene.”
He has been spending much of his
two years lecturing at the major col-
leges and universities.

Corman has had considerable ex-
perience in many forms of poetry.
He broadcast poetry on the radio
for three years in Boston. In addi-
tion, he has published the works of
many contemporary ‘beat’ poets as
editor of Origin, a literary quarterly.
He was also editor and publisher
at the Origin Press in 1956.

Prolific Poet

Corman has had his own works
published in at least 50 magazines
over the last 20 years. They have
been included in such magazines as
Poetry, The Sewanee Review, and
Accent. He has also had ten books
published.

The poet has also given many lec-
tures on the Japanese Noh Drama
with which he has had close contact.

Corman did his undergraduate
work at Tufts College. After this he

ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee ee Se ee

’
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
‘
‘
4
4
4
,
‘
’
‘
‘
‘
‘
‘
‘
’
4
4
4
‘
‘
‘
’
4
4
4

 

 

studied at the University of Michi-
gan, the University of North Caro-
lina, and at the Sorbonne, where
he was a Fulbright student.

Born in Boston, Mass., he has
spent much of his life traveling. He
has lived in France, Italy, and Japan,
as well as in the United States.

The poems which Corman will read
tonight, in general, are concerned
with showing man how he is “rela-
tive.” He intends to read his poetry
and then hold a discussion about it.

 

Track Meet Results

(Continued from page 3)

line in the 100 yd. dash in the
spritely time of 10.2 seconds,
freshman Skip Essex finished in
the half-mile run in 2:05.2 min-
utes, and sophomore Dave Mon-
roe tossed the iron ball 40’ 2” for
a first in that event.

On Thursday the track team will
pack-up and head for Richmond
where they will meet the University
of Richmond.

 

eel eee endo rfe rene ole sted ate ae ofeote detente footers
e ;

; IDEAL i
* BARBER SHOP ;
: QUICK SERVICE z

rm

eben deebeeeed

We Feature

SEALTEST

Dairy Products
“To get the best get Sealtest’’

over twenty different products in addition to
delicious Sealtest ice cream

Block and Crushed Ice

Your favorite mixes—Ice Cold

k
Maple-Rock Distributors, Inc.

Phone HO 3-2168

bebe oho rhe she oho oe rfe oe oe ole oe ae ene fe feof oe la.

 

 

AREYTON RING

‘MARKS THE REA

Here's one filter cigarette that’s really different!

The difference is this: Tareyton’s Dual Filter gives you a
unique inner filter of ACTIVATED CHARCOAL, definitely proved to
make the taste of a cigarette mild and smooth. It works together with
a pure white outer filter—to balance the flavor elements in the smoke.

Tareyton delivers—and you enjoy—the best taste of the best tobaccos.

 

buat rater LATCEVLON .....

 

 

RCOAL inner filter

ett SESE

She American Iebaccolomypany ~" Sabeceo is uz middle name” Oarce
 

 

MISS BETTY McCORSKEY
Randolph-Macon
with Grantham Couch

 

MISS KATHLEEN DAY
Hollins College
with Jerome Dattel

     

inns bainiastih die lbetinnnenanoc sabia

ry
SAD

ois siiignanan

MISS NANCY MAYNARD

Mary Washington
with Elliott Maynard

Reb en

 

MISS KATHY ALLEN
Hollins College
with Beverly DuBose

MISS BARBARA ANN MASON
Bethlehem, Pa.
with George Van Sciver

 

MISS KITTIE GRAHAM

Augusta, Ga.
with Roy Goodwin

 

FRIDAY
Edition

Che

Siete

Washington and Lee Semi-Weekly Newspaper

FRIDAY
Edition

 

Volume LXI

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA, APRIL 14, 1961

Number 48

 

Dance Set Has Oriental Flavor;

 

Formal Dance Tonight Opens Springs

Waterfall Highlights Decor

By R. ROY GOODWIN
Assistant Managing Editor
A number of top-flight entertain-
ers will spotlight this year’s Spring
Dances Weekend, which officially
opened at 4 p.m. today with a cock-
tail party given for the dance set
president, Bill Outman, a PiKA
junior from Bethesda, Md.

Headlining the party given for
Outman were performances by such
groups as the Five Royals and
the Royal Rockers, groups that
both hail from New York.

Perhaps the most awaited event
of the weekend, however, won't
take place until tonight at 9 p.m.
when the formal dance to be held
in Doremus Gymnasium begins.
Featured at tonight’s dance will be
the appearance of Woody Herman
and his orchestra.

Doremus Gymnasium, the site for
both tonight’s affair and tomorrow’s
concert which will feature jazz-
pianist Ahmad Jamal, is decorated
as “Shangri-La,” a theme taken from
James Hilton’s book, The Lost Hori-
zon.

Concert Saturday From 3-5

Jamal will appear from 3-5 p.m.
Saturday and will be accompanied
by his group known as the “Ahmad
Jamal Trio.”

Dance officials reminded students
today that conventional dress will
be required at the concert Saturday,
and that formal dress is required for
entrance to the dance tonight.

Ray Robrecht To Represent W&L
At National ODK Assemblage

Ray Robrecht, Intermediate Law
student from Plainfield, N. J., will
represent the Washington and Lee
Chapter of Omicron Delta Kappa at
its National Convention. The Con-
vention will be held in Stillwater
Okla., on April 28.

Meet in Tulsa

As a delegate representing the
Alpha Circle, Robrecht will meet
with delegates from colleges and
universities throughout the nation
to discuss problems in American
institutions of higher learning. Also
to be exchanged are views and ideas

LCDR Littlejohn To Speak
On Naval Reserve Program

LCDR E. C. Littlejohn, United
States Naval Reserve, will be avail-
able in Washington Hall April 20
to answer any questions on the
Reserved Officer Candidate Program
(ROC).

He will be on campus from 1
p.m. until 3 p.m. and will return
during the same hours on May 11
so that students may give serious
thought and make advance plan-
ning for next year’s school session.

Commander Littlejohn said the
ROC program is designed for those
students who wish Naval officer
training during college. It is not
available to seniors. Upon gradua-~-
uation, Reserve Officer Candidates
are commissioned Reserve Officers
and serve three years with the ac-
tive fleet forces.

 

 

A figure will be held at 10:15 to-
night and will be highlighted by
the appearance of the dance-set
president accompanied with his date,
along with the six vice-presidents
and their dates.

Members of the Figure

Set president, Bill Outman, will
escort an American University stu-
dent in the figure. She is Miss Sally
Rockwell.

Following the appearance of the
president of the dance will be the
entrance of the six vice-presidents
and their dates.

Vice-president in charge of the
figure, Grantham Couch, Beta junior
from Shreveport, La., will escort
Miss Betty McCorskey, a student at
Randolph Macon Women’s College.

Elliott Maynard, a PiKA junior
from Portland, Me., vice-president
in charge of decorations will escort
Miss Nancy Maynard, a student at
Mary Washington.

Vice-president in charge of pub-
licity, Roy Goodwin, a KA junior
from Augusta, Ga., will escort Miss
Kittie Graham from Augusta. She
attended the University of Georgia.

George Van Sciver, in charge of
invitations, will escort Miss Barbara
Ann Mason from Bethlehem, Pa.
Van Sciver is a Phi Psi junior from
Bethlehem.

Vice-president in charge of the
production staff, Jerome Dattel, is a
ZBT from Ruleville, Miss. He will
escort Miss Kathleen Day, a student

on the remedy of existing campus
problems.
New Circle

Another important issue to be
brought before the body will be
the admission of the University of
Tulsa as new Circle. Also, prepara-
tions will begin for the 50th An-
niversary of Omicron Delta Kappa
in 1664.

Leadership Group

Omicron Delta Kappa, with circles
at most leading colleges and uni-;
versities of the nation, was founded
at Washington and Lee in 1914 as
an honorary leadership fraternity.

Qualifications

Membership is based on participa-
tion and leadership in five areas of
student life: student government,
publications, athletics, social and
religious affairs, and speech, drama,
and other arts.

Superior scholarship and character
are also necessary for member-
ship consideration.

Notices

There will be a meeting of Pi
Sigma Alpha on Tuesday, April 18,
at 7:30 p.m. in Newcomb 8.

 

Jim Vann, president of the
Dance Board, requests that girls

 

os

MISS SALLY ROCKWELL, American University Student, will be
escorted by Dance President Bill Outman at tonight’s dance.

at Hollins College.

In charge of the cocktail given
for Outman is Beverly DuBose, a
PiKA junior from Atlanta, Ga. He
will escort Miss Kathy Allen, a
student at Hollins College.

Several members from the Cotil-
lion Club will also take part in the
figure.

Doremus Gymnasium, which is
decorated as “Shangri-La” for the
dance, will take on an oriental flav-
or at tonight’s dance. Highlighting

 

this set’s decorations will be murals
placed around the walls of the dance
floor, and the construction of a
Chinese pagoda.

A small pond with accompanying
waterfall will complete the major
decorations for the dance floor it-
self, Outman said in an earlier edi-
tion of the Ring-tum Phi.

The entertainment for this year’s
Spring Dances represents a mile-
stone in the history of the set,
Outman said today.

 

 

not wear bermudas to the concert
tomorrow. The dress will be con-
ventional.

 

ROTC students attack simulated aggressor during field problems held

this week,

~—War Correspondents Bowen and Young

 

Five Royals Start Weekend

Beginning the weekend with an
unexpected bang was today’s ap-
pearance of the “fabulous” Five
Royals and the Royal Rockers Or-
chestra.

Recording for King Records and
on Old Town label, the Five Royals
have become nationally known for
their renditions of such songs as
“Think” and “Please, Please, Please.”
The group is under contract from
Universal Attractions of New York
City.

Appearing at tonight’s dance from
9-1 a.m. is Woody Herman and his
orchestra. Last year, Herman was
the fourth ranked clarinet player in
the nation by the Playboy All-Star
Jazz poll.

Herman is well-known for his ar-
rangements of “Perfido” and “I Ain’t
Got Nothin’ but the Blues.”

Benny Goodman, who was ex-
pected to play for the dance will not
appear because a section of his
band had been signed earlier to play
on a national television show.

Jamal To Play Saturday
In the spotlight Saturday from
3-5 p.m. will be Ahmad Jamal,
a well-known jazz pianist.
Recording on Epic label, and later

 

on Argo, and now on Columbia,
Jamal has reached the peak of suc-
cess with jazz fans.

One of Jamal’s most unique fea-
tures is that he never plays a tune
the same way twice. He has ex-
plained that he keeps finding it
possible to express himself in new
ways, and even after playing a song
a hundred times he still manages
to put something new and different
into its presentation.

Being his own worst critic, Ahmad
Jamal is constantly improving and
changing his technique and style.
Because of this and the undeniable
individuality of his personality, it
is certain that the concert this
Spring will be one of the most
memorable in the history of the
W&L social scene.

Outman announced today that a
number of persons were assisting
with the decorating of Doremus
Gymnasium.

Working on the pagoda were
Barry Grove, John Graham, Ken
Kowalski and Steve Cook.

Aiding with art work were Tom
Dols, Ed Dickson, John White,
Bruce Houghton, Conway Shield,
George Sisler, Charles Stevenson,
Chet White, and Tony Burget.

 

SIPA Convention To Hear
Historian Dowdy April 28

More than 1,000 high school jour-
nalists and faculty advisors will reg-
ister at Washington and Lee Uni-
versity Thursday, April 27, for the
32nd Annual Convention of the
Southern Interscholastic Press Asso-
ciation, April 28-29,

They will represent some 175
prepratory and high schools from
nine Southern states and the Dis-
trict of Columbia. Participating
schools have entered over 300 pub-
lications in annual competition for
awards and recognition, and the
highlight of the two-day conven-
tion will be the awarding of tro-
phies to first-place winners at the
concluding awards luncheon Satur-
day.

Convention activities get under-
way Friday morning with a full
program of critiques, workshops,
short courses, roundtables and lec-
tures scheduled, all aimed at im-

 

proving excellence in scholastic pub-
lishing.

Several general sessions will give
delegates opportunities to hear ad-
dresses by James P. Warburg, noted
economist and author; Clifford
Dowdy, Civil War historian; and
Jack Mendelsohn, King Features
Syndicated creator of the comic
strip “Jacky’s Diary.”

At the awards luncheon, 17 SIPA
trophies will go to top entries in
newspaper, yearbook, magazine, and
radio competition. Four special
awards will honor the outstanding
student newspapers of Virginia,
North Carolina, West Virginia, and
South Carolina.

The convention is sponsored by
the Lee Memorial Journalism Foun-
dation, under the direction of Prof.
O. W. Riegel, head of Washington
and Lee’s Department of Journalism
and Communications.

 

ROTC Has Field Problem
Under ‘Battle Conditions’

From time to time during the
past week people on the Hill and
around town have been hearing
the sounds of simulated war, rang-
ing from blank rounds being fired
from M-1 rifles to green and white
flares exploding in the vicinity of
the Liberty Hall ruins.

All the action and noise is part
of a training exercise currently be-
ing conducted on Tuesday and
Thursday afternoons by the W&L
ROTC Department. The general pur-
pose is to give the cadets actual
field practice in maneuvers of the
platoon attack variety.

The general plan of the problem
is for the company going through
the problem to move to an assembly
area where the problem becomes one

 

of platoons attacking an objective
in the vicinity of the Liberty Hall
ruins.

Each platoon goes through the
problem individually with empha-
sis on the platoon leaders coordinat-
ing their attack plan with those of
the squad leaders to seize and hold
an objective, subject to a counter
attack staged by an aggressor force.

Supervision of the problem from
the cadre officer standpoint is being
handled by Capts. Hall and Miller.
The main emphasis, however, is on
the Cadet Corps running the prob-
lems itself and handling the criti-
ques after the problem has been
completed by each platoon.

Overall coordination between the

(Continued on page 4)
Page 2

THE RING

-TUM PHI

 

Che Ring-tum Phi
Unnecessary Neglect

We are aware of the fact that eventually Washington and
Lee will be granted new athletic facilities. We are also cognizant
of the fact that such improvement cannot be forthcoming in
the very near future because of the lists of priority and the
limits of physical possibility. For this reason, we question now
how the athletic department plans to operate until the needed
construction becomes a reality.

Unfortunately, when the Ring-tum Phi inquired recently
into a situation of serious concern to many students—namely,
the condition of the exercise, or weight room, we were received
with dubious cordiality, to say the very least, by a member of
the department. This coach, who is responsible for the equip-
ment and physical facilities of the gym, resented any reference
to the deplorable condition of some of that building’s resources
and question our right of inquiry. We were criticized severely
for “daring” to explore into the department’s operation in
cited areas. He complained, furthermore, that student neglect
in caring for equipment was the determining factor in the
refusal by the department to concern itself with repair and
replacement.

We would like to point out to the athletic department that
included in the University Fee of $70.00, which every student
pays with each semester’s tuition, is a provision for recreational

 

facilities and equipment along with other lesser costs of ad-.

ministration (services of the university physician and nurse, use
of library, and religious work.) Along with this allocation, each
student is required to submit, via his fraternity, an intramural
fee of $3.00 per man to cover the expenditures of that pro-
gram. (We are not including normal physical education fees
in our costing for these. are laboratory fees for recognized
classes.)

Because of this distribution to the athletic department of
compulsory student funds, we feel that there is gross derelic-
tion on the part of the department in assuring adaquate facili-
ties and equipment. Whether or not the weight room was the
victim of student neglect, or just fair wear and tear, is not the
point at issue. We feel that the students of this university are
paying for the use of well-equipped and adequate facilities,
and it is incumbent upon the athletic department to provide
them, either by repair or replacement of equipment in those
areas under question. Two excellent projects at hand could be
the weight room, as intimated, and the handball courts, where
faulty electric lights have greatly handicapped their use.

It’s Spring?

It’s Spring. Everyone agrees but the weatherman. We
understand he is among those who are holding out for Day-
light Savings Time so we can be an hour earlier getting to
Hollins or wherever, so, maybe he is on our side after all.

We can tell it’s Spring more readily by listening to the
laughter from the Troubadour Theater or watching the crowds
at the VMI Fieldhouse than by heeding the weatherman. The
annual Spring Musical presented by the SWMSFC is certainly
one of the best bits of art we have seen—locally anyway. Frank-
ly we are envious of Steve Danzansky’s nimble mind and talent
for turning a subtle phrase, not to mention his musical abilities.
We were in the first night audience which traditionally is slightly
less skeptical than second night audiences. But every effort
by Danzansky and the actors was met by a resounding round
of applause. It was delightful. A special pat on the back is
deserved by Gene Johnson and the orchestra for some fine
musical presentations. We hope you are to be among the sell-
out crowds this weekend.

The Valley Sports Show last weekend was a success, too,
thanks no little bit to the demonstrations and exhibitions by
VMI, W&L, Sweet Briar and UVa. students. We enjoyed
watching Ray Robrecht win his eleventh amateur bout almost
as much as hearing “Let’s Have an Organized Orgy.”

The purpose of this writing, however, is to welcome every-
one to Spring Dances. Actually you should know we are glad
to have you here and thus need no special welcome. We do
caution you to drive carefully this weekend and not get your
fuel supplies mixed—seriously.

After much frustration to the Dance Board and the Spring
Dance President, Woody Herman and Ahmad Jamal have
been contracted to play. If the preliminaries of obtaining them
are any indication, they should present an outstanding per-
formance. So, from the Ring-tum Phi staff, we wish you a

 

 

happy Spring Dance Weekend

—G. E. H.

 

 

A

 

YOU DIDN'T EVEN TRY
TO CATCH IT! IT FELL
al NEXT To You!

     

 

 

THEY SCORED FOUR

RUNS! WHATS THE

MATTER WITH YoU?!
- (es

¢

 

 

 

 

HOW CAN T PLAY BASEBALL
WHEN IA WORRIED ABOUT
FOREIGN POLICY ?

 

 

 

 

An “Estimate Of The Situation”

Is Necessary |

By ROBERT C. KETCHAM

Friday Columnist

Every country’s foreign policy
necessarily addresses itself to the
external situa-
tions that chal-
lenge it. However,
in light of the fact |
that these exter- |
nal situations are |
largely unknown, |
those making and!
evaluating the
the policy must!
resort to some “es- |
timate of the sit-|
uation.”

This country’s
citizens realize the fact, I think, that
we are in effect at war with the
Soviet Union. What is disturbing to |
this writer is the method of analysis
demonstrated by debates inside the
government and by the public as
to the nature of that challenge as
individuals make their “estimate.”

Most of us were brought up be-
lieving that there are two kinds of
people in the world, the good and)
the wicked. Even the Second World!
War was conducted on the theory
that the world was essentially divid-

 

ib

The duality which this view rep-
resents is immensely helpful in
making and evaluating foreign
policy in that it realizes the con-
tradictions within which the hu-
man must work, and thus allows
a better grasp of the broad essen-
tials.

What then is this dualism? First
of all there is the original objective
of the Soviet Union to accomplish
a world revolution. Under the defi-
nition as originally conceived noth-
-ing but conflict with the non-Com-
munist world could be conducted.
It did not permit deceptions of ex-
pedienecy such as political warfare
or mutual obligations such as were
encompassed by the UN charter,
but total conflict.

The blunt question of survival
which has been raised by the rapid
growth of technology now serves
to contradict the previous total con-
flict notion. The Soviet Union has

|much more to lose today by war

than at the time its idealogy was
formulated and effected by the rev-
olution. Therefore, an avoidance of

 

ed between the “peace loving” and |
the “aggressor” forces. This assump- |
tion represented a philosophy which |
was to explain both history and hu-
man behavior. |

The simplicity of an either-or
approach is no more adequate to
explain the nature of the Soviet
challenge than it was to simplify
the conduct of our peoples to-
toward the enemy in the war and
the nations left by the peace.

Today the attempt to abstract
events in simple terms finds argu-
ment by one group that the Soviets
are single-mindedly pursuing the
objective of world revolution, and
by the other that they are genu-
inely trying to relax tension by
limiting their arms and avoiding
war.

Most thoughtful persons would
find a definite lack in this simplicity
of evaluation, that there is some-
thing inherantly wrong with such
an approach.

The first flag of warning is the!

knowledge that the world remains
essentially ambiguous, that it is
not a clearly defined and ordered

abode because of various conflicting |

notions. Hegelian dialectic has had
a great influence on the way men
think today, as Germaine Bree
pointed out last Monday evening.

The process of thesis, antithesis and |

synthesis aids in defining and un-
derstanding the contradictory.

total war evolves as a more com-
plete objective of the Soviet policy.
Nor can we in our own country

| hope to find an either-or approach

to meet this dualistic challenge. In
this dangerous era when the con-
tradictions of policy must evolve into
a whole it is as necessary that we
too understand.

We must strengthen our common
| unity in NATO, for example, and
| at the same time aid the underde-
veloped countries struggling for
' betterment. Taking the Soviet chal-
| lenge as an example of the dualist’s
| approach in estimating the situation
we must put forth our own positivis-
tic policy.

As Louis Halle, a professor at
The Institute of International
Studies, Geneva, says, the policy
must be like a_ gentle knight,
strong and determined to hold his
own while at the same time con-
cilitory so as to manifest every
intention to reduce the danger of
| war.

Such a system of analysis defies

in terms of black and white. Such
a condition can be illustrated by
the U.S.’s former position as re-
gards neutralist nations.

 

| Under the U.S.’s general assent |

‘to the Geneva Agreement of 1954
| we were desirous of respecting the
“sovereignty, the independence, the
unity and the territorial integrity”
of Laos, At that time “unity” could

 

 

RES IPSA LOQUITUR

 

Questionnaire From The Library
Leaves Room For Other Reasons

By THORNS CRAVEN
Friday Columnist

As you all know, this column is,
pre-recorded and served up to you a|
little stale, be- |
cause it must be’
in by Thursday!
noon. Therefore I}
never have the)
benefit of things’
learned on Thurs- |
day afternoon to!
help out, except
when its __iast
week’s Thursday.
So I try to stay
ahead and write
this thing on Wed-
nesday. And this, as I write, is an
average day.

I was made aware of the fact that |
this is an average day by a big}
sign at the library, which said, for |
those of you who subscribe to your
own magazine and don’t go to the
library, TAKE ONE. For a minute I
thought that they (the little pieces
of paper under the sign) were Peace
Corps applications or something, so
I started around the display without-
out taking one. I couldn’t get away
so easily. Mr. Coleman jumped from
his hiding place in the phone booth,
and looking over his glasses that are
specially made to be looked over,
he said:

“Oh, no you don’t Craven, take
”

one.

Since it was relatively early in
the morning, I took one. And what
was it, but a questionnaire asking
me what I’m doing in the library,
listing a lot of reasons for coming
to the place, and saying “Check
only those applicable.” So I started
to check, but there wasn’t a blank
for what I had come for. As a
matter of fact, I have never gone

 

Craven

to the library for any reason on the |
sheet, and I don’t know of anyone}

who has. So instead of all the rea-

sons like “To do assigned reading,”
and “To Study” here are a few put
down in the “Other Reasons (speci-
fy)” blank.

1. It was raining, and I was caught
without my raincoat.

2. I was thirsty and this is the
nearest water fountain.

3. I wanted to see if the new Na-
tione| Geographic (or you can supply
| your own favorite magazine) had
; come in yet.
| 4. I wanted to check on the new
cartoon book in the browsing room.
5. I’m a Friend of the Library and
I drop in once a day for chats.

There is another section of the
quiz, and it has to do with listing
materials used on your visit. There
is no other reasons category in this
part, so you'll have to put down
paper towels and toilet paper in the

‘Continued on page 4)

Che Ring-tum Phi
Friday Edition
The Ring-tum Phi is published Tues

 

day and Friday during the college year.
It is printed by the Journalism Labor-
‘story Press, Washington and Lee Uni-
versity. The mailing address is Box

899, Lexington, Va,

Entered as second class matter Sep-
tember 20, 1946 at the Post Office, Lex-
ington, Va., under the act of March
3, 1878.

National Advertising Representative

  
 
    

 

 

The National Advertisers Service, Inc.,
420 Madison Ave., New York, N.Y.
Editor-in-Chief................ Nathan Simpson
Business Manager.............. Huntley Biggs
Editorial Board
Managing Editor................ George Honts
Assistant Managing Editor....................
EE Ee Roy Goodwin
re Andy Nea
Sports Editor .John Allgood
Copy Eqitol......r.crs-s00 .«Tom Jordan
Assistant Copy Edito .Dick Heard
Photography Editor.............
Advertising Manager......Edward Holmes
Circulation Manager.........Peter Agelesto
CUD MADER cscsisisccssicissccsscesscss Don McFall

n Foreign Policy

only have been achieved with the
consent of the Communist-led Pathet
Lao who were already established
in the country.

The US., far from being commit-
ted to a _neutralist government,
which was representative of the
countryside chose to support a mi-
nority and poured in $300 million
in military aid. By not choosing to
risk endorsing the neutralist regime
and by this very act allowing count-
ervailing forces to offset the influ-
ence of the Pathet Lao the Com-
munists were unengaged politically
and left free to fight.

The example used is oversimpli-
fied but no more so than was the
reasoning which rejected the neu-
tralist party in power because they
were not the “good” guys like the
anti-Communists.

It is equally as narrow to say
that we must maintain a militant
foreign policy, or conversely, that
no money should be spent for de-
fense because it would really be
better to help those poor deserv-
ing countries with rising expec-
tations.

The dualistic approach advocated
is certainly not all that is needed,
but at least it does away with the
absurdities proposed by black-
whites, the absolutists.

 

LETTERS

TO THE

pitoR

This letter is written because I
take exception to what was said in
the letter from “A Southerner”
which appeared in the Tuesday
Ring-tum Phi.

The Honor System is not an “ar-
chaic institution” which is passe.
Honor is an ideal which is cherished
not only by gentlemen but by men
everywhere. If men of integrity and
sensitivity have anything to do with
it, Honor will continue to be an ideal.

Man has a divided loyalty. It is
not simply a matter of loyalty to
a friend as opposed to loyalty to a
system. To call the practical side
of loyalty to an ideal “tale-bearing”
is to refuse to look at the issue in
an adult framework. “When I was
a child, I spoke like a child, I thought
like a child, I reasoned like a child;
when I became a man, I gave up
childish ways.” As_ one’s. world
broadens from childhood to adult-
hood, the area of his loyalties must
grow, and he must see things in
different perspectives. We do not
need to be exhorted to return to the
ways of little children—we are still
struggling to leave them behind.

Part of the purpose of the Hon-
or System is to teach us to live re-
sponsibly with our neighbors. We
can learn this lesson best if the
responsibility for the success of our
society rests squarely on our own
shoulders.

\3

 

GRAYFRED B. GRAY

 

Issue By-Passed By Candidates

the absolutist who wishes to think!

Friday Columnist

Within the next two weeks both
of our student body political parties

nounced
spring

begin with the
University Party’s

 

 

Brownlee

 

As Rallies And Handshakes Mark
Annual Student Body Elections

By MALCOLM BROWNLEE
|

Unless there is a realignment of
party affiliations between now and

will have an-| election time, the difference in the
their, size of the parties will be a primary
candidates for the determinant of the outcome of the
elections.' election. But the effect of this dif-
Then the race will ference in size can be lessened if

candidates for Executive Committee
position will state their policies re-

candidates well) garding certain important student
out in front from body issues. I suggest that these pol-
the beginning. The icies be directed toward two major
Independents may | ares: the Honor System and the
win as many as. student body elections.

three positions if | The Honor System discussion led
they put forward; by Grayfred Gray has caused much

their best slate of officers and if the interest among students in the pos-
University slate is weakened by at-! sible reforms in the system. Some

'tempts to appease several of their
houses. More likely, however, the
Independents will win only one po-

will be defeated by candidates who
are much weaker and less capable
than they are.

This political situation is nothing
short of undemocratic. It means that
most of the occupants of our student
body positions are chosen by a clique
of leaders in one party rather than
by the student body as a whole.

The difference in size between
the two parties is made a greater
evil by the fact that neither party
advocates any policy or anything.
Campaigns for office are made up
of superficial rallies and hand-
shaking. This gives the student
body a chance to see whether the
candidates are good guys—which,
of course, all of them are—but lit-
tle else is accomplished. Candi-
dates never propose any import-
ant changes which they will try
to carry out if elected, and
they never feel it is necessary to
defend the status quo.

 

of Gray’s objections to our present
system seem valid to me, and some
of his proposals seem sound although

sition or possibly none at all. Sev- | I question the soundness of the ma-
eral strong Independent candidates |

jority of his proposals. But I would
like to know what next year’s stu-
dent body leaders think about his
proposals before I vote for these
leaders. To make such a discussion
a pert of a candidste’s campaign
seems to me one of the best ways
to educate the student body about
how the Honor System works.

Second, I hope that this year’s
candidates will be able to present
concrete proposals on how our elec-
tion system can be improved. I have
no such proposals other than those
presented in this column and in my
column for March 24. But I will
pledge my vote, with hopes that it
cen mean something, to the candi-
date who presents proposals which
I think are workable.

Obviously the areas for which
candidates could advocate improv-
ments are not limited to these two
elthough these seem to me to be
the two with greatest possibility

(Continued on page 4)

 

Sororitys’ Abolition

By HARVEY ALLEN

Apparently time is running out
for sororities and fraternities at an
increasing number of colleges and
univeristies across the country. Just
last spring the last of the neighboring
girls’ schools to have _ sororities,
Randolph-Macon, lost them as the
result of action proposed by the
school’s administration and approved
by the Board of Trustees.

At the time the action was pro-
posed, we are told that there was
very strong feeling both “for” and
“against” keeping the sororities. An
official poll of the student body,
reprinted in the Sun Dial, the school
paper, showed that a clear majority
of the students favored keeping the
sororities.

All of that is history now. In an

 

‘Bill Bowen | effort to find out what changes had

occurred since last year and to
see what were the immediate effects

 

Creates Many Woes

of the abolition of sororities, we
talked with some of the ‘Macon
girls, mostly sophomores. We picked
sophomores primarily because they
are the only girls who have been
around for almost an equal amount
of time both with and without so-
rorities.

It came as no surprise that for-
mer members of sororities may no
longer meet as a group.

The houses on sorority row which
were once alive with parties dur-
ing Rush Week each September and
which hosted various parties during
the school year are now silent by
comparison. The houses are used
now, but not nearly so much as
before. Some of the girls still gather
there, but not as they had done last
year and before.

It was announced last year that
new clubs would appear this year

(Continued on page 4)

cr |

 

 
 

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

Kell Breaks Hop, Step, Jump Mark

 

Trackmen Keep Rolling, Smash
Downtrodden UR, 941-3---45 2-3

W&L’s track steamroller contin-
ued to flatten its oppenents Thurs-
day as Coach Norm Lord’s crew
smashed the University of Rich-
mond, 94 1/3-45 2/3.

Led by Jim Hickey’s and Robin
Kell’s ten-point performances, the
General thinclads steamed to their
llth straight dual meet win. They
are 4-0 so far this year.

Coming within six points of go-
ing over the century mark for the
third time this year, the track-
men grabbed all three places in
the broad jump, pole vault, and
two-mile. In all they racked up 11
firsts, ten seconds, and 11 thirds.

Kell, a 6-2 freshman jumper, bet-
tered the school record in the hop,
step, and jump with a leap of 41’
10 5/8”. The old mark was 40’ 11”,
set last year by Ed Corcorran.

It was only by stroke of fate that
Kell broke the record. After three
jumps he had decided to quit. But
after a few moments rest, he came
back and broke the record on two
successive jumps. His first record-
breaking jump was 41’ 5”. Kell also
took first place in the high jump
with a jump of 57”.

Hickey, “the South Boston
speedster,” was slowed down by
a muddy track, but still won the
100 and 220. He ran a 0:10.4 in the
100 and a :23.4 in the 220.

Other standout stars against the
Spiders were Ken Kowalski, Ed
Meyers, and George Cruger.

Kowalski threw the javelin the
fartherest of his college career—
172’ 8 1/2”. He nosed out Richmond’s
ace javelin thrower, Bill Venture, for
first.

Jokingly after the meet, some-
one told Kowalski, “See what
practice does.” Ken, better known
as “the Killer,” quickly agreed,
“The time I spent practicing my
steps this week certainly helped.”

Meyers became the seventh track-; and Dave Callaway clear 11’.

man to go on Coach Lord’s steak
list when he vaulted 12’. Coach Lord
gives a steak to any trackman who
betters the 1960 time or distance in
his event. Last year’s top mark in
the pole vault was 11’ 6”.

Meyers paced the pole vault sweep
which saw Jim Parker vault 11’ 6”

In the broad jump sweep Henry
Sackett leaped 20’ 1 3/4”, Tom
Edwards jumped 20’ 1/2”, and
Bobby Brewer made 19’ 8”.

Distance strong man Mike Shank
led the W&L one-two-three punch
in the two-mile. Stoney Duffey fin-

ished second and Ed Garretson, third.

Other winners for the Generals in-
cluded Mack Brownlee, mile, 4:49.8;
Skip Essex, 880, 2:06.8; and Cruger,
discus, 121’ 10”.

The Generals’ next meet is Thurs -
day, April 20 against Hampden-
Sydney at Wilson Field.

 

After last year’s final baseball
game, a 1-0 victory over West Vir-
ginia in thirteen innings, Coach
Joe Lyles was heard to remark
that for the first time that season,
the team looked like a coherent
unit.

Apparently the layoff between
seasons hasn’t hurt this feeling of

 

 

‘|one triple among their 33 hits.

unity. The Generals have turned
in a heads-up, team effort in the field
so far this season, and have already
equalled their win total for last year.
They’re now 3-2 against college
competition, and haven’t even play-
ed Lynchburg and West Virginia, the
teams they beat last year.

So far the diamondmen have
topped Harvard, William and
Mary, and Norfolk William and
Mary, all by two runs or more.
Their losses came at the hands of
Elon and North Carolina State.

Phil Sharp pitched the Generals
to a 6-0 win over Harvard, blank-

 

ing the Maroons on four hits. Roy |
“the Panther” Carpenter won at.
William and Mary by pitching eight
innings. Freshman righthander Penn |
Way won in relief against Norfolk |
Monday. |

As a team, the Generals are bat-
ting .203, and have scored 25 runs.
They’ve collected four doubles and

 

 

They have picked up another 40
baserunners on hit batsmen and
bases on balls. Once on base, the
Generals have succeeded in stealing |

 

* |10 beses, including two steals of|

 

Mack Brownlee Wins Mile Run

_|mony fine performances.
plate, Bobby Williams, the left field- |
er, leads the hit parade. He car-|

‘| home in one game. There have been

|
eleven runners advanced by anal |
fices. |

In the field, the team has a |
632 average, with 146 putouts and
57 assists. On the distaff side,
they’ve committed 18 errors, almost
four a game.

 

'
As far as individual heroics are |
concerned, the Generals can boast

ries a .437 average, and has two
doubles emong his seven hits.
elso has four runs batted in. In the
field, he’s made several sparkling
catches, including one running grab

of a line shot headed for extra bases

 

 

Golfers Win Third In Row, Topple
Lynchburg, 6-3, Vardaman Shoots 73

Moving from snow-covered
course to a aan’ course, the W&L
golf team still continued its win-
ning streak, as it rapped Lynchburg,
6-3, Thursday at the Lexington Golf
Course.

Captain Jack Vardaman was the
medalist with a 73 on the par-71
Lexington course. Grantham Couch
had a 75.

The win was the third straight
against no losses for the golfers.
Monday they toppled West Vir-
ginia, 6 1/2-2 1/2, on the snow-
covered Homestead course.

In the Lynchburg match, Varda-
man defeated Litz Beavars, 5-4,

and Couch topped George Johnson, '

5-4, in the first flight. Washington
and Lee won the best ball, 6-5.

In the second flight Willie Lee
edged John Cardwell, 3-2, and

Lynchburg’s Jim Alexander beat,
Ronnie Stewart,
captured the best ball, 2-1.

Steve Henry defeated Bill John-
son, 3-2, and Lynchburg’s Dan
Martin edged Jack Neal, 1-up, in
the final flight. Washington and
Lee won the best ball, 4-3.

Coach E. P. Twombly said, “All
the boys have played pretty well so

far. But we really haven’t had a
decent day weatherwise. We've
played in snow, wind, rain, and

mud.”

 

 

 

FS Or rrr

 

Waggy’s Jewelers
35 S. Main Street
Phone HO 3-4121

THE HOME OF QUALITY

PO ee re

 

~wouuwuwweweeeeeeeeeeeeee~

 

2-up. Ly nehburg | |

 

 

The golfers’ next three matches
are the toughest ones on the sche-
| dule according to Coach Twombly.

The Generals meet Hampden-
Sydney next Thursday here; Rich-
mond, April 20 at Richmond; and
William and Mary, April 25 here.

 

 

FORMAL WEAR

 

and
Complete Formal Accessories
'l| The
COLLEGE TOWN

 

At the!

He|

 

| Shop

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Captain Ned Hobbs Takes a swing at a low one.

—Staff photos by Bill Bowen

Williams, Lane Pace Generals’ Batting Attack;
Hobbs Leads In RBI’s, Rose Gathers Most Walks

in the Harvard game.

Chuck Lane, the Generals’ catlike
third baseman, is running second in
the hitting department. He sports a
318 average, with seven hits and
three RBI’s. He’s also scored five
runs. In the field, his rifle arm and
quick reflexes shore up the defenses.

Right fielder Buck Rose and
second baseman Park Gilmore
round out the top four batters,
with respective averages of .286
and .267. Rose leads the team in
bases on balls, with seven, and
Gilmore adds punch to the lower
half of the batting order.

 

perreereeereerneneennes

aetebcetoletobtoedetetedetetotdetot

S ROBERT B.LBB 3
z BARBERSHOP ;
z David M. Moore z
s Proprietor *

%

 

 

 

PPP FF FOO OOOO OO OOO

Allgood’s

Atoms

By JOHN ALLGOOD

 

 

mr
i i i i i i

Fauber Grabs 31st In NCAA College Rebound Totals,
First W@L Player In National Figures Since Flora

NOT SINCE Dom Flora, W&L’s ‘Mr. Basketball,” have
the Generals placed anybody in the nation’s basketball leaders.
Not until this year at least.

In recently released NCAA College Division final basket-
ball statistics, Rodger “‘Bip’’ Fauber, a 6-2 hustler, placed 31st
in the top 50 rebounders.

Fauber pulled down 302 rebounds in 18 games for

a 16.8 average per game. Leading the college division

was Virginia Union’s Bill Jackson with a 24.7 mark.

Had it not been for several off games early in the season,
Fauber would have made the top 20. As it was his average was
only 1.1 off the 20th spot.

Fauber’s best performance came in W&L’s 78-68 upset of
downtrodden Virginia. Bip grabbed 24 rebounds and scored
26 points. *

Mud Hampers Catchers: One Slides, One Bogs Down

BUNTS HAVE BEEN an unusual center of amusement at
Washington and Lee’s baseball games this year.

General pitcher Penn Way put down a perfect sacrifice
bunt against Norfolk William and Mary Monday. The bunt
|was so perfect that the W&M catcher couldn’t get the ball
‘out of the mud in front of home plate.

Jim Russ, W&L catcher, needs a lesson in fielding bunts
on a muddy field. In the second inning against Norfolk, Russ
dashed after a bunt and wound up practicing his sliding.

 

Hickey Breaks 220 Record With Father Watching
DR. JAMES HICKEY, who attends nearly all of W&L’s

track meets and football games, was happier than usual March
y » B
Dr. Hickey had reason to be happy—his son Jim, a star
trackman and football player at W&L, picked up his third
and fourth first places of the track season.
(Continued on page 4)

lnm

 

 

>

THE COLLEGE INN

The Best Food in Town

American and Italian

Catering to the Students, Faculty,
and Towns People

OPEN SUNDAYS

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

They do if you use ‘Vas

first! Most men use water with their hair tonic and
‘Vaseline’ Hair Tonic is specially made to use with water.
Water evaporates, dries out your hair. Alcohol and cream
tonics evaporate, too. But ‘Vaseline’ Hair Tonic won’t
evaporate. It’s 100% pure light grooming oil — replaces
oil that water removes.

it’s clear *

it’s clean...it’s

VASELINE

    

do they fall for you head first?

es

Paria!
eo:

eline’ Hair Tonic on your head

 

 

 

 

And just a little does a lot!

 

VASELINE’ HAIR TONIC IS A REGISTERED TRADEMARK OF CHESEBROUGH: PONDS INC.
Page 4

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

Macon Faces

Social Woes

(Continued from page 2)

to take the place of the sororities,
in order to continue the communi-
cation between the members of the
four classes at "Macon. This has not
happened.

Today the "Macon girl finds a
lack of contact with large num-
bers of her fellow students. This
was not evident last year due to
weekly contacts formed by the com-
mon interests and experiences found
in sororities.

Everyone on this campus knows
what roles our fraternities play in
encouraging and interesting fresh-
men and sophomores to enter into
school activities and to take interest
in the general activities of the Uni-
versity. Sororities at "Macon did the
same. Without sororities, the incen-
tive to participate in extra-curricu-
lar activities just doesn’t exist any-
more.

Counting all of the offices and
duties within the sororities them-
selves, there were about ninety po-
sitions of leadership and respon-
sibility. With these positions now
gone, the potential of inany students
now goes untapped.

But then people say that these
girls should be able to have the
same goals as before, and that they
could support other activities. Real-
ly? Take for example the recent
blood drive at "Macon. Previously
it was quite successful and enjoyed
a good turnout each year, but not so

 

ROTC Has Field Problem

Under ‘Battle Conditions’
(Continued from page 1)

cadre and the individual companies
is being handled by Cadet Maj. Har-
vey Allen, who serves as the prob-
lem umpire along with other mem-
bers of the Battle Group staff.

Commenting on the problems that
have been conducted so far, Maj.
E. J. Roxbury, Professor of Military
Science and Tactics, said that he
was generally pleased with the re-
sults and spirit which the cadets,
from squad member to company
commander, were demonstrating in
the field exercise.

 

Allgood’s Atoms

Jim’s

The ‘South Boston speedster”’
before against High Point, but
fort ineligible for a record.

field—swift, agile, and smart.

Coach Bob McHenry isn’t

(Continued from page 3)
But the news of the day was Jim’s time—0:21.3
in the 220 yard dash and 0:09.8 in the 100.
220 time beat the W&L record by three-tenths of a
second and tied the Wake Forest track record, set by Virginia’s
championship dash man, Tony Sepp.
Hickey’s 0:9.8 in the 100 officially tied the W&L record.

ran a 9.8 in the 100 the week
a strong tailwind made the ef-

*
BITES AND BITS—Pitcher Roy Carpenter and third

baseman Chuck Lane are the only members of the exclusive

Panther Club. They both pitch and play like big cats in the

giving up in his search for a

gargantuan center. His latest prospect is 6-7 George Manger,
who averaged 18 points for Landon Prep School this year.
A pair of big fullbacks—Dunlop Ecker and Harry Pres-

ton— have been elected co-captains of next year’s soccer team.

 

this year.

With reference to our fraternity
system here, we all know of the
emphasis that is placed on academic
achievement within our houses, par-
ticularly for the freshmen. The in-
terest which sororities formerly had
in encouraging freshmen at "Macon
is now absent. The same goes for
upperclassmen, we are told.

On the social side of life, the up-
perclassmen say that they are not
able to become as well acquainted
with the freshmen as before. The op-
portunities are just not there, ex-
cept for the “mixers” and such at
the beginning of the year. It has
come to the point that now most
freshmen and many sophomores
know only a few girls outside of
their hall and dorm.

Along with this restricted com-
munication between a large number
of girls comes the problem of getting
dates each weekend. If you've tried
getting more than a couple of “blind”

 

 

Hamric and Sheridan
JEWELERS

Watch and Jewelry Repair
Hand Engraving and Class Rings

HO 3-2022

 

 

 

SUN. - MON. - TUES.

 

IT’S DAFFY
IT’S A DILLY
The Daffodil Spring

Comedy Scream

/ ny oh Nurse’

STARTS FRIDAY

SS:

eee eobeeotetesbedeotetedeebeteetedeeeteoteteteet

NEW TOWN INN -
Short Orders—Lunches
Catering to Students

sacs

Werke fe ale ole oleate ofeofe te
Teedorferferdeots ofoote

Soenooennoinner ncn mneied

 

 

 

 

 

 

3 TEXACO :
© Super Service Station 7
° Lexington, Virginia :
° Corner Main and Nelson °
cecccccccccecccceececece
LEME
: CALL BY NUMBER z
z and Save Time *
: LEXINGTON t
* TELEPHONE CO. :
e %

©900000000000000000000%

 

dates at "Macon this year you pos-
sibly received the impression that
the freshman class didn’t have near-
ly the same number of “sharp” girls
as before, compared with places like
Hollins and Sweet Briar. No doubt
"Macon has at least the same num-
ber of eligible young ladies, but it’s
a major operation to find them. Just
try it.

 

Debbebiebtdoeeduebsennadeiites
= R. L. Hess and Bro.

 

 

; JEWELERS

z Lexington, Virginia

z HO 3-2833

%

Seber se ode estore oder oes erbeotestetede

SS Se {
4

+ HICKMAN’S ESSO

South Main Street }

; HO 3-2024 ’

> 4
4

 

 

 

TOLLEY’S PHARMACY

Prescriptions Filled
Immediately

PURCHASE DRUGS
HO 3-2211

 

 

 

error.

: Baker
Ford Sales

@

BETTER DEALS

CLEARANCE
of lot for 1961 Models

NEW AND
USED CARS

Highway 60 East

 

 

 

 

 

  
  

SEES
Phila

STATE

  
 

LEXINGTON, VA.

 

 

        

eS.

a

Why

 
  

pownnnen

 

Friday-Saturday, April 14-15

by GUI LOREN - PETER SELLERS

   
 

wy

 

seaman nti

ane

 

CARY GRANT
DEBORAH KERR
ROBERT MiTCHUM
_JEAN SIMMONS

 

Sunday-Monday-Tuesday

 

   
   
  
   

“THE GRASS IS
GREENER

TECHMICOLOR” TECHNIRAMA®

SPER PERO RO HOE EESER HO ERSO SORES OE EES

Wee eee ee eeeseese
aneuneee

 

 

 

 

ROUTE 60 EAST

HO 3

Across from the White Top Resturant
~4214

Wash, Grease, Lube, Road Service

Charge Accounts Welcome

: DIXON’S

ESSO SERVICE CENTER

IN LEXINGTON

Lexington
Laundro Matic

209 S. Main
*

HAND IRONED
SHIRTS

Dry Cleaning

Service

for your convenience

 

 

 

: SPENCER
: General Tire

536 E. Nelson Street

Best in Tires
GENERAL
Best in Recapping
Kraft Tread

New and Used Tires
FOR COMPACT CARS

 

Political Parties
Pose Problems

(Continued from page 2)
for fruitful debate. Proposals on
such items as dance-set improve-
ments and student-faculty rela-
tions could also form significant
planks in a candidate’s or party’s
platform.

The enthusiastic candidate should
find many more ways to express his
policies. Speeches at rallies and
newspaper columns could both be
utilized. A debate between the lead-
ing candidates will be possible if
there is any disagreement between
them, and I hope there will be.

The advantages of this type of
campaigning are many. It would en-
able students to get a clearer view
of candidates and their positions in
regard to campus matters. It would
force candidates to think through
their policies before they are elect-
ed. It would educate the student
body on issues discussed. And it
might lead to some _ significant
changes.

THE DUTCH INN

For Reservation Call
MRS. KATHERINE ADAMS
HO 3-3433

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

%|sDodge and Dodge Dart!

Phone HObart 3-3146

eeseaeeceoeceseeeeeeeee

° and Lancer :
: America’s First Fine :
: ECONOMY CAR :
*
: Rockbridge Motor Co. :
2 INC. e
° °
& e
° °

 

 

TETLOW
TV Service

221 S. Main WHO 3-2841

Craven Questions

(Continued from page 2)
marsin. Do be sure and have an
exact count, so the boys on top will
know what goes on on an average
day.

The third part of the questionnaire
has to do with status. Each status
has a different place to mark, but
there are no instructions about which
status to mark in the blank beside
your role. So the first time I put
single, then I put down 4-F, and
finally I put down an Other. I won’t
tell you what my particular other
was, just so the library staff will
meet with some originality when

Library Questions

is at the bottom, and reminded me
of the little thing that used te have
a Watch-bird watching you. The
question is, “Have you turned in
another library use questionnaire
today?” And the answer blanks are
labelled Yes and No. I put down
maybe and left, because the day
was just to average in the library.

 

ere

 

It’s Good usiness
To Do usiness
with IERER’S

PHARMACY

 

 

 

 

HOME
IS ONLY
MINUTES
AWAY

ON

PIEDMONT
, AIRLINES

Plan to fly

home soon on

Piedmont Airlines.
Piedmont serves
colleges, prep-schools

and home towns all

across the top

of the South

PLEDINONT
AIRLINES

serves ‘you better

call Piedmont or your
Travel Agent.

 

 

they read the score.
The best question that they ask

 

 

 

 

 

Expert Motor Work

FOREIGN CARS AND STUDEBAKER LARKS
OUR SPECIALTY

MAIN STREET MOBIL STATION

Open 8:00 a.m.—8:00 p.m.

 

 

 

FOR ROOM RESERVATIONS—CALL HO 3-2151

LEXINGTON MOTEL
Large Rooms—U. S. 11 By-Pass South
Free TV—Phones—Continental Breakfast
Only Motel in corporate limits of Lexington

 

 

   
  

 

"ies

 

On Campus Ver San

(Author of “I Wasa T e Dwarf” ,““The Many
Loves of Dobie Gillis” , etc.)

THE DEAN YOU SAVE MAY BE YOUR OWN

Now in the waning days of the school year when the hardest
heart grows mellow and the very air is charged with memories,
let us pause for a moment and pay tribute to that overworked
and underappreciated campus figure, your friend and mine, the
dean of students.

Policeman and confessor, shepherd and seer, warden and
oracle, proconsul and pal, the dean of students is by far the
most enigmatic of all academicians. How can we understand
him? Well sir, perhaps the best way is to take an average day
in the life of an average dean. Here, for example, is what hap-
pened last Thursday to Dean Killjoy N. Damper of Duluth
A and M.

At 6 a.m. he woke, dressed, lit a Marlboro, and went up on
the roof of his house to remove the statue of the Founder which
had been placed there during the night by high-spirited under-
graduates.

At 7 a.m. he lit a Marlboro and walked briskly to the campus.
(The Dean had not been driving his car since it had been placed
on the roof of the girls dormitory by high-spirited under-
graduates.)

  
 

 
 
 
  

oe ws eed then

At 7:45 a.m. he arrived on campus, lit a Marlboro, and
climbed the bell tower to remove his secretary who had been
placed there during the night by high-spirited undergraduates.

At 8 a.m. he reached his office, lit a Marlboro, and met with
Derther Sigafoos, editor of the student newspaper. Young
Sigafoos had been writing a series of editorials urging the
United States to annex Canada. When his editorials had evoked
no response, he had taken matters into his own hands. Accom-
panied by his sports editor and two copy readers, he had gone
over the border and conquered Manitoba. With great patience
and several excellent Marlboro Cigarettes, the Dean persuaded
young Sigafoos to give Manitoba back. Young Sigafoos, how-
ever, insisted on keeping Winnipeg.

At 9 a.m. the Dean lit a Marlboro and met with Erwin J.
Bender, president of the local Sigma Chi chapter, who came to
report that the Deke house had been put on top of the Sigma
Chi house during the night by high-spirited undergraduates.

At 10 a.m. the Dean lit a Marlboro and went to umpire an
intramural softball game on the roof of the law school where the
campus baseball diamond had been placed during the night by
high-spirited undergraduates.

At 12 noon the Dean had a luncheon meeting with the presi-
dent of the university, the bursar, the registrar, and the chair-
man of the English department at the bottom of the campus
swimming pool where the faculty dining room had been placed
during the night by high-spirited undergraduates. Marlboros
were passed after lunch, but not lit owing to the dampness.

At 2 p.m., back in his office, the Dean lit a Marlboro and
received the Canadian minister of war who said that unless

young Sigafoos gave back Winnipeg, Canada would march.
Young Sigafoos was summoned and agreed to give back Winni-
peg if he could have Saskatoon. The Canadian minister of war
at first refused, but finally agreed after young Sigafoos placed
him on the roof of the mining and metallurgy building.

At 3 p.m, the Dean lit a Marlboro and met with a delegation
from the student council who came to present him with a set
of matched luggage in honor of his fifty years’ service as dean
of students. The Dean promptly packed the luggage with his
clothing and Marlboros and fled to Utica, New York, where he

is now in the aluminum siding game. © 1061 Max Shulman

* * *

To the dean of students and all you other hard-working
academic types, here’s the new word in smoking pleasure
from the makers of Marlboro—king-size unfiltered Philip
Morris Commander. Welcome aboard!

  

 

 
el aie Sa

TUESDAY
Edition

he Ring-tum Phi

Washington and Lee Semi-Weekly Newspaper

TUESDAY
Edition

 

Volume LXI

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA, APRIL 18, 1961

Number 49

 

UP Selects

 

Spring Concert
Set For April 26
In Lee Chapel

By ROGER PAINE

In its busiest spring season in his-
tory, the Washington and Lee Glee
Club will present six major con-
certs in the course of the next three
weeks. Of major importance to W&Li
will be the annual Spring Concert,
which will be given in Lee Chapel
on April 26 with the Westhampton
College Choir.

The Glee Club will present an all
new repertoire for 1961 at the Spring
Concert, and the Westhampton Choir
will sing the most outstanding num-
bers from its latest selection of tunes.

This Thursday, April 20, the Glee
Club will make a road trip to Long-
wood College to repeat the per-
formance of the Faure “Requiem”
which was given here at the Lex-
ington Presbyterian Church before
spring vacation. Then in the first
week of May, the Club will go to
Richmond to repeat the spring con-
cert that will be given here for the
University of Richmond.

Staying overnight in Richmond,
the Club then plans a trip to Wil-
mington, Del., where alumni have
organized a singing engagement and
a party for the entire group. Andy
Leonard will accompany the Club
to sing a few of the numbers from
Steve Danzansky’s spring musical.
He will be assisted by Phil Booth
and Dave Munroe, both regular
members of the Glee Club, in “I
Make a Study,” “Stay Away from
the Opposite Sex,” and “All of a
Sudden,” from the show.

The Brass Choir, which has been
rehearsing steadily all year long,
also will accompany the Glee Club
on its tour, as will the Capparales,
a singing group in the Glee Club
which specializes in their own ar-
rangements of past popular hits.

While in Wilmington the Glee
Club will also sing at the Tower
Hill High School, and plans to re-
turn late on Thursday, May 4.
This will conclude the 1960-61 sea-
son for the Glee Club with a grand
total of eleven concerts.

Mr. Robert Stewart, director of
the Glee Club, and Don Partington,
this year’s president, are both large-
ly responsible for the success of
the club this year. In comparing the
club as it is now with what it was
when Mr. Stewart began directing
it, it is easy to see how much work,
time and patience has gone into its
molding and perfecting.

The first year the Glee Club was
formed, it gave three concerts in-
stead of the eleven given this year,
none of which were done with mixed
choral groups, and one of which was
merely the traditional Christmas
candlelight service.

 

ROSIE PAGE
Running for president

Rosie Page’s varied leadership on
campus was recognized this year
when he was one of two juniors
elected to ODK. The SAE rising
senior, from Beaver Dam, Va., is
EC representative this year and was
president of his sophomore class.
He is editor of the Tuesday edition
of the Ring-tum Phi.

Page is a member of SWMSFC and
the Dance Board. He was named
IFC outstanding freshman in 1958-59.
He has been on the varsity foot-
ball, baseball, and wrestling teams.
A dormitory counselor this year,
Page is an honor roll student and
a member of Phi Eta Sigma.

 

Mock Trial Is Tomorrow,
Case Involves Accident

The Law School will hold its
Spring mock trial tomorrow in the
Moot Court Room. The case is a
suit arising out of an automobile
fatality in which the brother-in-law
of the deceased, who asserts he is
unable to support himself and re-
ceived his only support from the de-
ceased, is seeking to recover damages
for loss of support.

Counsel for the plaintiff is Bill
King, intermediate law student. The
defendants, Frank Hoss and Ken
Huntingdon, will be defended by
senior law students Dick Lary and
Tom Kroetz.

The first session of the trial will
be held tomorrow from 3 to 5:30
p.m. and a second session from 7:30
p.m. until the trial is concluded.
The Mock Trial Committee invites
interested students and _ faculty
members to attend. The Law wives
will serve refreshments in the law
student lounge after the trial.

Professor Robert E. R. Huntley of
the Law School will preside.

 

NOTICE

Registration will continue to-
morrow and Thursday.

Speaker For Tucker Lectures
Is Prettyman, Lexington Native

The Hon. E. Barrett Prettyman,
circuit judge of the United States
Court of Appeals for the District of
Columbia Circuit and a native of
Lexington, will deliver the 13th
John Randolph Tucker Lectures in
Law at Washington and Lee Uni-
versity on April 21-22.

Judge Prettyman will speak
twice Friday and once Saturday in
Lee Chapel on the general topic of
“Some Modern Problems in Crimi-
nal Law.” Lectures at noon and 8
p.m. Friday will deal with “The
Problem of the Indigent” and “The
Problem of the Incompetent.” Satur-
day at noon, Judge Prettyman will
conclude with a discussion of “The
Problem of the Juvenile.”

A large number of Washington
and Lee Law School alumni are ex-
pected to return for the lectures and
the annual meeting of the Law
School Association. The Tucker Lec-
tures also are attended by non-
alumni attorneys and law students
from other institutions. They also
are open to the general public.

The Tucker Lectures were estab-
lished in 1949 as a part of Wash-
ington and Lee’s bicentennial cele-
bration. They honor the memory of
John Randolph Tucker’s service to
the University as dean of the Law
School.

 

The late John W. Davis, a Wash-
ington and Lee alumnus, nationally
famous attorney and the 1924 Dem-
ocratic presidential candidate, de-
livered the first Tucker Lectures.
Other distinguished judges, attor-
neys, and educators who have par-
ticipated in the series are Judge
Arthur T. Vanderbilt, Judge John J.
Parker, John Lord O’Brian, Judge
Joseph C. Hutcheson, Jr., Judge
Harold R. Medina, Dean Robert G.
Storey, William T. Gossett, Dean
Frederick Deane Goodwin Ribble,
John J. McCloy, Whitney North
Seymour, and Ross L. Malone.

Judge Prettyman, who assumed
his present position of chief judge
in 1958, is the son of a Lexington
Methodist minister. He received his
A.B. and M.A. degrees at Randolph-
Macon college and earned his LL.B.
degree at Georgetown University by
attending night classes while teach-
ing public school at Kensington, Md.,
and Alexandria.

He was admitted to the Virginia
Bar in 1915 and established practice
in Hopewell. Following service in
World War I as an infantry officer,
he served briefly as counsel to the
Internal Revenue Service’s New
York Bureau, and then joined the

 

| four parts.

 

 

CHARLIE COMMANDER
Running for vice president

Charlie Commander, Phi Delt ris-
ing senior from Jacksonville, Fla., is
president of the junior class this
year. He is a member of the Dance
Board, and has been on the varsity
lacrosse team. His other activities
include Sigma, the Ring-tum Phi,
and service as rush chairman of his
fraternity. Commander’s scholastic
attainments were recognized when
he was elected to the Commerce
fraternity.

 

BILL OUTMAN
Running for secretary

Bill Outman, PiKA rising senior
from Washington, D.C., was presi-
dent of Spring dances this year and
he joined Roise Page as one of the
two juniors who made ODK. Out-
man was sophomore EC represen-
tative last year. He is a dorm coun-
selor.

He has been a member of the soc-
cer and lacrosse teams and sports
editor of the Ring-tum Phi. He was
elected to the Commerce fraternity.

 

** Peace Corpsmen

May Be Given Draft

Exemptions”’-H ershey

Peace Corps volunteers can be
deferred from military service un-
der the present Universal Military
Training and Service Act, says Lt.
Gen. Lewis B. Hershey, director
of Selective Service. His views were
outlined in an editorial in the April
issue of Selective Service Bulletin.

“The relationship of the Selective
Service System with registrants who
become members of the Peace Corps
can be handled administratively,”
Hershey wrote.

He said that the classification of
registrants in the Peace Corps “can
be handled as any other registrant
engaged in activities in the national
health, safety, or interest.”

When they return home, volun-
teers could qualify for further de-
ferment.

Important factors listed by Her-
shey for consideration when the
volunteer returns home include his
age, his physical condition, his mari-
tal status, the regulations which ap-
ply when he is released “and wheth-
er or not the registrant on his re-
turn from service with the Peace
Corps engages in an activity which
permits him to be deferred in the
national health, safety, or interest.”

Hershey concluded: “The fact that
the registrant has been a member of
the Peace Corps will not prevent
him from qualifying for further de-
ferment, the same as any other reg-
istrant who is engaged in activities
vital to the national health, safety,
or interest.

 

Macon C. Putney To Edit
Fall Issue Of Law Review

Macon C, Putney, an intermediate
law student from Big Island, Va.,
has been named Editor-in-Chief of
the Washington and Lee Law Review
for the coming fall semester.

Putney is a ’58 graduate of Lynch-
burg College where he was President
of his senior class and on the Dean’s
List. Also at Lynchburg College he
was among those appearing in Who’s
Who in American Colleges, and se-
lected to membership in Omicron,
an honorary leadership fraternity.

At W&L Putney is the holder of
a University Scholarship. He is a
member of Tucker Inn of Phi Delta
Phi legal fraternity where he pres-
ently serves as Clerk. In assuming
the editorship Putney will succeed
Joel E. Kocen, a graduating law
student.

 

Notice

Spring try-outs for positions in
the Sazeracs begin Tuesday night at
10:30 in the basement of the Student
Union. There are openings in all
Also, the Sazeracs are

Chicago law firm of Butler, Lamb, | interested in a piano player-man-

(Continued on page 4)

ager.

 

 

JACK VARDAMAN
Running for president of Final
dances

Jack Vardaman, from Anniston,
Alabama, is president of Sigma Nu

fraternity, and has served as secre-

tary of that group. An Honor Roll
and Dean’s List student, Vardaman.
has been an IFC representative for
2 years. He is captain of the Gen-
erals’ golf team. As a freshman
Vardaman was a recipient of a
Washington Scholar Award.

 

DANNY MARKSTEIN
Running for president of Opening
dances

Danny Markstein, ZBT sophomore
from Birmingham, Ala., is vice-pres-
ident of his class. His activities in-
clude Student Service Society,

SWMSFC, and varsity soccer team.
Maintaining a Dean’s List standing, |
Markstein is also advertising man-'

ager of the Calyx.

 

Late Scores

The W&L baseball team split a
double header with the West Vir-
ginia Mountaineers yesterday by
scores of 3-0 and 4-3,

 

Page, Commander, Outman

Dance Set Nominees Are Ide,
Vardaman, Markstein, McCord

By BILL

ROBERTS

The University Party has nominated Rosie Page, Charlie
Commander, and Bill Outman, for president and vice presi-
dent, and secretary, respectively, of the student body Execu-
tive Committee. Also announced today were the rest of the

“Big Clique’s” slate.

Bill Ide will run for president of Fancy Dress and Jack

een

 

BILL IDE
Running for president of Fancy
Dress

Bill Ide, rising KA junior, has
served as vice-president of the
junior class and as an officer in his
fraternity. Ide, a former sports edi-
tor of the Ring-tum Phi, has main-
tained a Dean’s List standing along
with his many extra-curricular ac-
tivities. He is a member of the In-

,| tramural Board, of SWMSFC, and
‘ of the 13 Club. Ide, a dorm councilor,
‘lis also a member of the varsity

basketball team.

 

 

CHARLES McCORD
Running for president of Spring
dances

 

Charles McCord, rising Beta
| junior, is a Dean’s List student. As a
| sophomore from Shreveport, La.,
| McCord has served as an executive
| somandthoemen, He is a member of
| the varsity soccer and varsity la-
; erosse teams. McCord is active in the
' Cotillion Club, and is a member of
the Calyx staff.

 

Friday Edition To Sponsor
Student Election Forum

Anticipating the coming  stu-
dent body elections, the Friday
edition of the Ring-tum Phi will
sponsor a forum tomorrow eve-
ning, April 19, at 8:00 in the Stu-
dent Union. A panel composed of
prominent students and chaired by
the President of the Student Body,
Kent Frazier, will direct questions
to the candidates for the top three
offices from the University and
the Independent Parties.

These questions will be concerned
current issues, such as the
Washington and Lee Honor System,
which are very much in the minds
of this student body. The candidates
for these offices will also be given
the opportunity to present any poli-
cies or platforms if they so desire.

The public is invited to this dis-
; cussion,
| will be permitted from the floor.

| with

 

 

and if time allows questions |

*Vardaman for president of Finals

‘dance set. Both are seniors.

Charlie McCord and Danny Mark-
stein, rising juniors, will run for
the presidencies of Spring and
Opening dances, respectively.

The rival Independent Party has
not yet announced its slate of can-
didates for the “Big Seven” offices.
Sources in the Independent Party
say that the strongest contenders
for their top nominations are Ray
Robrecht, Steve Suttle, Steve Rut-
ledge, and Dave Montgomery.

No “Dealing”

The University Party, according to
party chairman John Farmer, de-
parted considerably from its prac-
tice in the past of making advance
commitments among fraternities to
support each other’s candidates.
This “dealing” had brought some
criticism.

“There were no advance commit-
ments between fraternities concern-
ing the nomination of their candi-
dates,” said Farmer. “We feel this
reflects a marked desire to prove
we want to serve the student body.”

“I think that by bringing our
candidates out early the University
will become more familiar with her
potential student leaders. The Uni-
versity Party feels that we have
endorsed the best possible men to
serve Washington and Lee,” Farmer
added.

“Our nominess can stand a search-
ing examination by the student
body,” he said.

Independent Party chairman Bill
Johnston is expected to announce
his party’s slate of “Big Seven” can-
didates later this week.

Student body elections for the
three EC officers and the dance set
presidents will be held April 27.

Nominations will be officially sub-
mitted at a student assembly in
Lee Chapel Monday night at 7:30.

_| The nominating speeches are tradi-

tionally the only real campaign ora-
tory heard on campus. Members
of the two opposing parties will

| whoop it up for their candidates.

Questions Yet To Be Answered

While waiting for the Indepen-
dent Party to present its candidates
campus political observers are ask-
ing some other questions:

This year there have been a
number of suggestions for changes
in the procedure and duties of the
EC with respect to the Honor Sys-
tem. Will any of the candidates
propose a “reform” program?

Many observers have noted that
the Independent Party seems to
have met the problem that they are
in the minority by running those
they feel are their strongest candi-
dates against those they feel are
the weakest on the University Party
slate. Will they feel themselves
strong enough to mount a frontal
attack on the “Big Clique” this
year?

Class elections come up shortly
after the “Big Seven” elections. Are
any major candidates holding back,
waiting instead to try for a class
presidency or EC post?

Will a third or fourth party ap-
pear? Will such a move be serious?

Party lines appear solid. The last
switch occurred when the Sigma
Chis left the Independent Party to
join the University Party in 1958.

There are ten houses in the Uni-
versity Party: Phi Kap, DU, Sigma
Chi, Sigma Nu, ZBT, Beta, KA,
PiKA, Phi Delt, and SAE.

The Independent Party numbers
eight houses: Delt, Phi Gam, Phi
Psi, Lambda Chi, SPE, Kappa Sig,
Pi Kap, and PEP.

Non-fraternity men, for lack of or-
ganization, have seldom been repre-
sented in either party. But the In-
dependent Party seemed to be cast-
ing eyes on their votes, which out-
numbered any four houses, when
they nominated Bill Noell, who had
not pledged a fraternity, for fresh-
| man EC representative this fall.

 
Page 2

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

The Ring-tum Phi

Tuesday Edition

Good Show, No Dough

Steve Danzansky and Dave Lefkowitz are to be com-
mended for their production of the SWMSFC musical. The
show was of professional calibre, and we have heard nothing
but praise from those who saw it.

The show was an immense project. Danzansky began early
last summer on the script and songs, and the entire cast prac-
ticed for ten weeks prior to opening night. Those directly con-
cerned with the production numbered well over a hundred,
making the show the largest extra-curricular activity on campus.

And herein lies our criticism. ‘Heads or Tails” became a
goal in itself. Lost in all the excitement was the fact that the
purpose of the show was to provide funds for scholarships.
The show was backed, and paid for, by the Student War
Memorial Scholarship Fund Committee, whose only purpose
is implicit in its name.

It appears, however, that there will be no profit from the
week-long run of “Heads or Tails.” At best, the show will break
even. The costs encountered by Danzansky and his cast were
much greater than those anticipated by Lefkowitz and the com-
mittee.

It is possible that the slow will go on the road, perhaps to
Hollins and Randolph-Macon. Yet, again, the expense might
very well exceed the income. And it is difficult to ask the cast
and committee to make still more sacrifices.

Hindsight is certainly a great deal less difficult than fore-
sight. This year’s show was an unqualified success, yet we feel
that in the future the production should be kept more in line
with the purpose. Washington and Lee is very proud and happy
with her musical, yet it seems a shame that everyone’s hard work
on the show could not have increased the funds available for

War Memorial Scholarships.

 

  

Peace Corps Cheer

From The Nation—

Boop boop dittum-dattum, wattum, choo!
We've joined Sargent Shriver’s crew.
Don’t know why, but we’re on our way

For Jackie and Bobby and JFK.

Gonna go to Ghana and Guinea, too;
Thailand, Swaziland, Timbuktu.

Gonna bring peace to the great unwashed;
Gonna make sure those Reds are quashed.
We're just kids, but we’re on the make
To give this world an honest shake.
Boomalacka, Boomalacka, watch our dust!
We're bringin’ peace to the brush, or bust!

Hoogenboom Presents Citations:
Playboy, Protest, Washington Post
Recognized For Outstanding Feats

Assorted Students: for demon-

By HUGO HOOGENBOOM |
strating, at Wilson Field while the

Jazz Interview

Ahmad Jamal: Reflections On The Weekend ©

AHMAD JAMAL

—Photo by Young
a

 

Hollins
Criticizes
Honor System

From The Sophian, Smith Col-
lege:

According to results of a question-
neire distributed recently by Honor
Court, Hollins College students dis-
satisfied with the present Honor
System are in a majority. The fol-
lowing results were compiled:

That the honor system lacks the
greatest possible support of students
wes the feeling of 231 students, 50
being freshmen. Weaknesses were
divided into two main categories: 1)
leck of support which is due to lack
of honor, interest and co-operation
among students; 2) that the system
is spread too thin and includes too
meny minute offenses.

Other weaknesses listed by stu-
dents were: interpretation of the
system is too vague; the school’s in-
terpretation of honor is obscure;
upperclassmen fail to set a respect-
able example for freshmen; support
of the system becomes progressively
weaker with each class, moving from
freshmen to seniors.

A close tally was noticed on the
question of whether the system
should include all phases of college
life: 197 said no, 128 said yes. Of
the negative answers 178 felt only
lying, stealing, and cheating should
be honor violations while 131 stu-
dents stated that serious social vio-
lations should be included; 12 were
in favor of the point system and 82
wished to include failure to report
one’s self.

The final question—if some or all
social rules were not under the
honor system, do you think they

' delicate touch of a professional bil-

By STEVE HENRY

Ahmad Jamal is a slender, wispish
man who shakes hands with the

liards player.

After the concert Saturday, he
came out of his dressing room wear-
ing a continental suit and a fur
(probably mink) skull cap, which
may or may not be continental. We
did not know.

What we did know was that we
hod just seen and heard a jazzman
extraordinary, one of the fading
group of individual artists whose
on-stage presence generates some-
thing akin to an electrical charge
between performer and audience.

Jamal’s piano drowned out the
miscellaneous noise left behind by
the big bands of past dance sets,
and in doing so perhaps ushered in
a most agreeable trend, namely the
appearance in Doremus Gym of more
young, brilliant entertainers rather
than stereotyped big band perform-
ers.

We thought it appropriate to begin
an interview with Jamal by asking
something about music, so we started
off by asking him about Ornette
Coleman, whose name is currently
“in” with 1961 jazz buffs.

“He’s_ interesting,” said Jamal.
“lve been too busy to study Cole-
man thoroughly.” Which more or
less closed the matter.

What about Ray Charles?

“He makes a lot of money—he’s
popular.”

But is he a real musician?

“He makes money.”

Obviously Jamal wasn’t in the
mood for discussing fellow musi-
cians.

But he was pointedly interested
in talking about a non-musical ven-
ture in which he is currently invol-
ved—the opening of an international
restaurant in Chicago.

 

The new restaurant, the Cour de
Leon, will be designed as an exact
replica of the international eating
place of the same name in Spain.

“The Cour de Leon will be totally
non-alcoholic,” said Jamal.

Why so?

“Because serving liquor to our
clientele reduces the standard of
the cuisine which we will serve. We
will offer the best talent and food
in the world, but no liquor.”

Your connection with the restau-
rant?

“President of the corporation,” he
smiled.

Matter closed. Too much com-
mercialism.

What takes you from plush night
club engagements and brings you to
this and other campuses?

“I came here as a favor,” said
Jemal. “A friend of mine backed out
on you, so I came. Somebody had
to play. Besides, I'd rather play
colleges than night clubs. The au-
diences are more appreciative.”

At this point we almost choked.
Surely Jamal, the sensitive, creative
artist, had wanted to slam his Stein-
way shut and stalk off stage during
the concert he had just finished.
People were constantly moving
eround in the audience, making a
cacaphony of mumbo-jumbo noises,
end we had always thought such
disturbance led high-strung per-
formers to tear out their hair.

Was this audience okay today?

“Yes, they were fine—very well-
mannered. I enjoyed playing here
very much.”

And the accommodations?

“Fine, just fine.”

That was the last question we
were able to ask. Jamal, pressed for
time from the outset (he had often
waved off applause so he could fin-
ish the concert quicker), took a po-

 

lite but final leave.

And then we were off to Red
Square to hear some horses of a
different color, or should we say a
different orientation musically.

The Five Royales, a combo of
questionable moral standards, per-
formed, but not too long.

The high point of the afternoon,
music-wise, came when a_ well-
known rock-and-roll star, namely
Walt Selman, took over at the elec-
tric guitar for a guest shot.

Selman, accompanied by a fra-
ternity brother, brought down the
house, and raised the standards of
the Royales, who really were prob-
ly more worried about the income
tax man than they were about per-
forming.

Night-time brought the combo
parties. And it also brought the
great influx of transitory, college-
type drinking bums from other uni-
versities.

This is a constant source of
amazement for us. There were more
strange faces around campus last
week-end than at Fancy Dress,
which means that there were about
two visitors for every student here.

Why anyone would want to leave
his own fair campus and exodus to
ours just to throw a drunk is be-
yond our comprehension.

Anyway, we saw all kinds—the
loud Wahoos, the quiet Wahoos, the
guys from Duke, North Carolina,
etc. There were even a few Ivies
around.

The Ivies are the easiest to rec-
ognize. One guy from Princeton,
whom we know to be the epitome of
what every Ivy leaguer wants to
be, was the picture of refinement
and composure during the week-
end.

Until, that is, he took his third
drink, and then he was singing
with the combo and throwing one
heck of a horror show.

 

By ED WEBSTER

1

A man-on-the-colonnade poll,

taken by this reporter on Friday,

Saturday, and Monday, indicates that

there’s a good deal of sentiment for
changing the honor system.

The question asked was: “Do
you faver changing any aspect of
the honor system as it is defined in
the Constitution?”

Out of 145 respondents, 56 an-
swered “yes,” 48 answered “no,” and
41 were unable to answer either way.
Significantly, many respondents fell
into this third category because they
did not know how the system is
defined in the Constitution.

The “yes” answers amount to 38.6

 

| per cent of the total.

Projected
onto a student body of 1,072, this
percentage suggests that as many as
414 students favor some change.

When such a significant number
of students favor changing the Con-
stitution, it would seem only fair
that they have recourse to the
amendment process. The large num-
ber of undecided voters, as evidenced
by the poll, might yield a few hun-
dred more votes for the amendment.

Under the present Constitution,
any amendment that is approved by
the Executive Committee can be
ratified by a simple majority of
the whole student body.

But when the EC doesn’t approve
an amendment, it must get a two-

 

The Academy Awards have come
up again, and Elizabeth Taylor was
predicted to win on the basis of
her London performance. Just as the
motion picture people look back on
their year to mete out rewards for
outstanding work, so must we at
Washington and Lee. Hence, and
forthwith, this year’s awards.

Rose’s Lime Juice (in coordination
with The New Yorker): for perform-
ing the nearly impossible by con-
vincing the common american fool
that bottled lime juice (which the
English use because fresh limes are
unavailable to them) is better in a
drink than fresh lime juice.

Dukes of Dixieland: for demon-
strating why dixieland jazz has no
more musical vitality but is popular
because it is loud and predictable.

Playboy Magazine: for all but
eliminating the word “sophisticate”
from the conversation of literate
people by their incessant, intermin-
able, imbecilic use of it. Additionally,
for pretending to purvey culture but
really pandering to adolescent onan-
ism.

Board of Supervisors, Rockbridge
County: for deciding not to have
daylight saving time, despite Lex-
ington’s adoption of it, because if
they did “little children would have
to get up for school at 5:45 a.m.”

The Maury River: for not freez-
ing over, in spite of the lousy weath-
er.

The Person Who Put the Seal on
the Dining Hall: for obvious and oft-
stated reasons.

Protest: for printing the worst
prose available, and capping that
with the most puerile poetry imag-
inable.

The Virginia State Legislature: for
increasing the tax on whiskey, beer,
and cigarettes, thus demonstrating
that the law of diminishing returns
still operates, and subtly outwitting
the Federal Government by increas-
ing the bootleggers’ business at the
expense of the revenue agents.

 

ROTC conducts its retreat ceremony,
that they have outgrown § such
bourgeois habits as respect for the
traditions, symbols and ceremonies
of their country.

To the Administration: for recog-
nizing the gravity of the parking
problem by proceeding with plans
which have eliminated approximate-
ly forty parking places.

The Washington Post: for recog-
nizing the failure of its frontal at-
tack and attempting a flanking
movement through the purchase of
Newsweek.

American Congressmen (both par-
ties): for, having been warned sev-
eral years in advance that the Soviet
Union would put a man in orbit first,
staying calm and refusing to make
hysterical statements for publication
when it did.

Various song birds and other
feathered friends: for bringing joy
and melody into my otherwise cheer-
less life, particularly at five in the
morning when I am trying to pretend
that I haven’t got a headache.

 

 

Notices

There will be a meeting of Pi
Sigma Alpha tonight at 7:30 in
Newcomb 8. All members are urged
to attend.

The elections for editors and busi-

could be handled as or more effec-
tively, and state reasons—was an-
swered negatively by 94 students, 57
of them freshmen. They felt that a
police system, which would obvious-
ly be the remedy, would permit the
attitude that students could break
rules as long as they coul escape
unnoticed. This situation would cre-
ate a lack of responsibility toward
the system.

There were 140 affirmative an-
swers. Two categories of these were
students in favor of having no social
rules under the system, and those
who specified that serious social
regulations should be under the
system, excluding minor rules.

Trinity College Downs
Code ‘Squealer Clause’

Students at Trinity College in
West Hartford, Conn., have rejected
a proposal to adopt an honor code.
It was the second time in three
years that the proposal has failed.

Although 55.1 per cent of the stu-
dent body favored the proposed

EC Hopefuls Should State Views
On Important Student Body Issues

By STEVE GALEF | would show up at the convention,

| there might not be enough room to
The “two-party” political system jog _ e

at Washington and Lee has been; ‘he value of student government
subject to criticism for many years.' 4 Washington and Lee cannot be
Nevertheless, it has come down to; understated. Perhaps the most im-
us in about the same form it WAS portant thing about our honor sys-
when originally conceived. This | tem is that it is entirely controlled
would seem to indicate that any re-| by elected representatives of the stu-

form might best come from within
the system, rather than from out-
side of it.

cutive Committee positions were re-
quired to state their stands on cer-
tain campus issues, regardless of the
political party they represent, the
results might prove beneficial.

Another column on this page tells
of a recent poll taken on campus
which revealed that a_ significant
portion of the student body de-
sire some change in the honor sys-
tem. How many other students feel

 

code, the favorable margin fell short
of the 80 per cent required for rati-

student body voting, the senior class
was 62 per cent in favor.

According to the Trinity Tripod,

fication. With 91 per cent of the |

that there ought to be revisions in
other areas of student activity?
Campus elections are coming up
soon. Under the present set-up, when
2 student votes for a candidate, he
| has little or no idea about what the

Perhaps if the candidates for Exe- |

the major cause of opposition to| candidate stands for. There is a
the adoption of the proposed code| nominating convention, but even

 

ness managers of The Ring-tum Phi

and The Southern Collegian will be | which stated that a student is hon-| inee take a stand. Actually, if those
held at the Student Union at 2 p.m.| or-bound to report any observed! students who were
on Monday, May 1.

 

 

was the so-called “squealer clause”| this does not require that the nom-

| code violations.

dent body. Yet is it now stands we
are represented with no idea of what
any representative’s idea of honor
consists.

Controversy often arises over the
rules of the Assimilation Commit-
tee. In the final analysis, the ac-
tions of this committee are controlled
by the EC. Policy of the Dance
Board are also often under consid-
eration. There seems to be quite a
constant desire for change. Never-
theless, as the Dance Board and Exe-
cutive Committee constitutions now
stand, the only way that the stu-
dent body can effect any important
changes is through the EC.

Therefore, it is obvious that the
feelings of the members of the EC
are of great importance to each in-
dividual elector in the student body.
We should have a way of learning
what these feelings are.

Other colleges have found ways

 

interested
what a candidate might propose

in | dent

to solve this problem. Of several stu-
governments surveyed, an

(Continued on page 4)

 

     
 
 

PEANUTS

DEAR PENCIL PAL,

FRIEDA, AND SHE HAS

WE HAVE A NEW GIRL IN OUR
NEIGHBORHOOD, HER NAME |S

  

 

 

 

NATURALLY CURLY HAIR

 

 

 

 

THATS NOT WHAT T
| MEANT TO SAY It!
ie |

— —— =
3-19 SSS

—"

17

 

Sm Sie

 

 

W&L Constitution Assumes EC To Be Superior,
Provides For Oligarchical Student Government

thirds vote of the student body—
as many as 715 votes. Practically
speaking, this is impossible.

In last year’s Big Seven election,
when party pressures and personal
feelings brought an unusually large
turnout to the polls, 922 students
voted.

In an amendment referendum,
there would probably not be more
than 800 voters even if excitement
were at fever pitch. Thus less than
100 voters could defeat it.

Moreover, it is probable that, in
many referendums, less than two-
thirds of the students would even
vote. Thus the amendment would be
automatically defeated.

Having read the Constitution
rather carefully, I am convinced
that it was intended to create an
oligarchical form of government.
That is, student affairs are to be
handled by a powerful elite group,
superior in all respects to other
students.

Most of us, however, profess to
believe in a democratic form of gov-
ernment. We (theoretically) believe
that every man should have a voice
in deciding how he is governed, that
he should have free access to in-
formation about the conduct of his
government, and that he should have
the power to initiate changes when
his government dissatisfies him.

According to our Constitution,
however, all judicial, legislative, and
executive powers are vested in the
EC. There is no system of checks
and balances, and very little sepa-
ration of powers.

The Constitution assumes that
the EC will be a superior group.
A large part of its superiority,
however, comes from the fact that
it knows more secrets than any-
one else. It guards this superiority
by always working in secret.

Yet our Constitution also implies
that the students, rather than the EC
are the real source of power. The
EC is merely an instrument of the
voters; it should not be allowed to
take any significant legislative ac-
tion without first consulting the
voters.

If a large number of Constitutions
could be distributed before April
27 (when Grayfred Gray’s amend-
ment will be voted on), more stu-
dents might be able to vote intel-
ligently.

If fraternity members will ask
pointed questions to the Executive
Committee when they visit the
houses in the next few days, they
might gain valuable information.

And if students demand that their
clique-picked Big Seven candidates
also face up to the questions about
the honor system and the Constitu-
tion, we will have a better idea of
who is best suited to serve us in the
EC next year.

 

 

 

 

'
'
i
j

 

 
 

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

LX Team Defeats Loyola
But Loses To Baltimore

By RANDY COLE

The Generals’ stickmen on Satur-
day April 8 put down the Loyola
College team by a score of 13-6 in
a contest which was held on Wilson
Field. However, this weekend the
Generals met with less success.

Saturday, Washington and Lee’s
lacrosse team turned in a creditable
performance as the Generals lost
to the University of Baltimore by
a score of 14-5.

The game was much better play-
ed than the score would seem to
indicate. Charlie Gummey, Rondy
Wooten, Jim Powers, and Herb
Tinley all turned in fine perform-
ances in a contest which saw the
Generals exhibit one of their fin-
est efforts of the year. This was
accomplished despite the absences
of Ray Gordon, ace attack star,
and Ray Miller, also on the first
team.

Gordon will be out for the season
due to an injury to his right hand,
but Miller is expected to recover
from a rib injury in time to play
a few more games this season.

The Baltimore Bees are loaded
with a host of big-name college
stars. Randy Walker was named
All-American second team last
year and Stuart Harrison was se-
lected to the third team in 1960.
Junior Kelz and Bobby Adair
both had previously played with
the Mount Washington Club of
Maryland for a few years. Mount
Washington is considered the best
team in the nation. Dryson Erhardt
was chosen to the All-American
first team two years ago as goalie.

Generals Take Lead

At the outset of the game the Gen-
erals were able to quickly score two
goals, jumping off to a 2-0 lead. Af-
ter the Bees tied the score at 2-2,
the Generals jumped ahead with a
third goal made by Charlie Gummey.
However, once the Bees tied the
score at 3-all, they were never
surpassed. At half time the score
was 8-3 and in the latter part of
the game the Bees upped their mar-
gin to 14 as the Generals added only
two more goals.

Despite the loss the Generals
played well. Their defense was con-
siderably improved over the previous

Phi Psi Still Holds 1st Place
Phi Gams V-Ball Champs

Phi Kappa Psi still holds its first
place position in the intramurals
standing according to the latest fig-
ures released by the director of in-
tramural activities.

These figures include those for
the recent volleyball competition
in which Phi Gamma Delta cap-
tured first place with 100 points,
Phi Kappa Psi came in second
with 95 points and Beta Theta Pi
was third with 90 points.

The last intramural activities of
the year are softball which ends the
20th; table tennis, running from
April 24 to May 10, and Sigma Delta
Psi, which has been running since
April and will continue until May
i.

The standings as they are now
appear below:

Rank Fraternity
1—Phi Kappa Psi

Points

2—Pi Kappa Alpha ............ 85314
3—Phi Delta Theta .................. 841
4—Phi Gamma Delta ............ 83914

5—Sigma Nu
6—Delta Tau Delta

 

7—Sigma Alpha Epsilon ...... 816,
8—Beta Theta Pi .........:.ssses00 813
G—Fi Kappa Pil ....cscsccssssse 799
10—Phi Kappa Sigma ............ 758
1l—Delta Upsilon ............000 750

(Continued on vage 4)

x

 

Stickmen move

 

 

in for a goal.

 

games and they were able to pick
up ground balls much better. A
slight change in the defensive for-
mation helped things a little. The
Generals dropped one midfielder
back deeper into the defensive area.

Washington and Lee was handi-
capped also by the lack of substi-
tutes, as only 18 men dressed for
the game. As a result there was
a constant shifting of positions
throughout the contest.

Baltimore lost only two games
last year, to Army and Navy, the
nation’s number one and two teams
respectively. They are as yet unde-
feated in season play for 1961.

 

One sad note of the game was
Randy Wooten’s injury which ne-

cessitated his leaving the game be-
fore the first half. Wooten has
undergone an operation at Johns
Hopkins and will be out of ac-
tion for the remainder of the sea-
son.

Especially encouraging was the
fabulous play of Charlie Gummey
who scored 3 goals, and Jim Powers
and Wooten who each scored 1 goal.
Herb Tinley turned a fine perform-
ance at goalie with many saves.

Washington and Lee’s Generals
will travel to Chapel Hill this Friday
to play the University of North Car-
olina Tar Heels, and will play Duke
on Saturday at Durham. Last year
the Generals beat UNC by a 11-5
score and topped the Blue Devils
by a 13-3 count.

JC’s Honor Three W&L Athletes

In connection with the Valley
Fitness and Sports show held at VMI
weekend before last, the Lexington
Junior Chamber of Commerce pre-
sented six awards to athletes from
Washington and Lee and VMI. Two
of the awards for each school were
presented to the best athletes in the
school and the other award was
for the “unsung hero” in the school.

Those awarded these honors for
Washington and Lee were Steve
Suttle, for his fine performance as
W&L’'s star quarterback, and El-
liott Maynard, for the excellent
showing he made through the sea-
son and for his performance at the
Eastern NCAA meet.

Cited as the “unsung hero” of
the Generals was Roy Carpenter,
head of the Blue and White’s
pitching staff. Similar awards were
presented to VMI athletes.

Sam Huff, professional football star
and main attraction of the two day
show, presented the awards to Sut-
tle, Maynard and Carpenter in a

 

 

LEXINGTON
CLEANERS |

Phone HO 3-3813 108 S. Jefferson

 

 

 

 

  

STUDENTS ACCOUNTS INVITED
Member F, D.1. C.

 

   

es

HERE

 

brief coremony before the opening
of the Saturday night portion of
the show.

Responsible for selecting the re-
cipients of the three awards was the
Washington and Lee coaching staff.

The staff took the nominees from
all those boys who have participated
in Washington and athletics this
year. They then gave their decisions
to the Lexington Junior Chamber
of Commerce, which had the awards
presented to the boys.

 

 

For those extra pieces

of
FURNITURE

for your room
see our stock
before buying

 

 

 

Trackmen Meet
Hornets After
Quantico Relays

By CLARENCE RENSHAW

Coach Norm Lord’s trackmen go
after their 12th straight victory over
a two-year span when they take
on the Lynchburg College squad
here Thursday at 3:45 p.m. at Wilson
Field.

The Generals will seek to ex-
tend their 1961 dual meet record
to 5-0 at the expense of Lynch-
burg after turning in commend-
able performances, but not placing
any men, in Friday’s and Saturday’s
Quantico Relays at Quantico, Va.

Quantico Relays

Sprinter Jim Hickey came closest
to making the finals of any event
when he was barely nosed out for
a qualifying position in the 100 yd.
dash.

In other events, the mile relay team

turned in a 3:32.0, their best time |i

of the year, but failed to place. Mike
Shank stuck it out in the 10,000
meter run for two complete miles,
doing it in his best time so far this

 

year.

Geology instructor Clarence Rob-
erts, former U.Va. pole vaulter who
is assisting Coach Lord in his
specialty, cleared the bar at a very
respectable 14’.

Frosh Top EHS

Mernwhile the Freshmen were
grinding out a 74 1/2 to 56 1/2 vic-
tory over Episcopal High School
here Friday in their first dual meet
of the season. Robin Kell, Skip Es-
sex, and Ed Croft did most of the
scoring for W&L and divided all of
the Brigadiers’ eight first places
among themselves.

Kell tripled in the hop-step-jump
(41’), the high jump (5’ 10”), and
the broad jump (20’). Essex won the
mile (4:58.0) and half-mile (2:06.8).
Croft took the honors in both hur-
dles events, the 120 yd. highs in
15.8 sec. and the 180 yd. lows in
21.4 sec.

The same three teamed with John
Pearson to win the mile relay.

It was only the third track loss
for EHS in the past two years.

The other W&L scorers were Dave
Britt, Ed Jansen, Rick Erickson,
and Henry Sackett.

The freshmen will try to make it
two in a row against Augusta Mili-
tary Academy here Friday at 3:45
p.m. on Wilson Field.

Track Coach Lord says W&L will
be represented also in the Virginia-
Pilot relays at Norfolk Saturday.

PeeoEd ooo SE TEE
IDEAL
BARBER SHOP

QUICK SERVICE

 

Seofe oe feels ofe ofe afe ate
Meeeletectecfeoteoy

%
te ote rhe rhe eterheterterts

 

| W&L’s, are three times as fast and,|

 

Captain Ned Hobbs raps a sharp sin
field. (Story on page 4.)

gle through the middle into center

 

The Washington and Lee tennis!
team, a little shaky after the Spring
weekend, was defeated by Duke
University yesterday at Durham,
North Carolina by a score of 9 to 0.

The Generals, who now sport
a 3-2 record, were just not up to
their usual game as the Blue
Devils, who are now 6 and 5,
downed them on an extremely
windy day.

The best showing of the day for
the Generals came in the doubles
match in which John Baker and
Billy McWilliams were defeated,
but they played much better than
the score indicates.

Clark Valentiner was outstanding
for his hustle and played a good
game, although he was not in usual
form.

For the Blue Devils it was a typi-

 

cal serve and rush game. Duke’s
courts, although the same type as}

 

 

ble he he eh he ee ee ee

Green Valley Motel

One Mile North on
U. S. Highway No. 11

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA
HO 3-2195

 

 

 

 

FEES Meebo tedesionts

White’s Music
Store

(Opposite State Theater)
.y
Phonographs—Hi-Fi
Expert Repair Service
+

 

 

x 5 W. Nelson St. Lexington, Va.
VARNER AND POLE see 5.0088
eof oho ode be obo abe obo oho abe abe ob ofe feof oe oho ole oko fe of obs feet

 

 

The Southern Inn

Cordially invites you to make this your headquarters for good food
Here you get the best food for the most reasonable prices

Our Specialties:

Steaks, Chicken, Country Ham, and the best sandwiches
in town

Meet your friends here

Shirt Service as You Like it

Quality Cleaning and Pressing
UNIVERSITY CLEANERS

HO 3-3622
*
“Your Campus Neighbors”

Se heefe oho ole oho ofe sheng

LEP PEELED EEE LEDERER EE DEED DEERE ELE EEE EE EES

 

 

 

|

'Netmen Lose To Blue Devils, 9-0

therefore, Duke was use to playing
a faster game. On the Generals’
courts it is difficult to serve and
rush the net because a player is
two steps slower on them than on
a harder surfaced court. For this
reason, the Blue Devils played a
diferent type game than that which
the Blue and White was used to.

Another handicap to the Gen-
erals was that it was only the
fifth match of the season compared
with the eleventh for the Duke
team. Duke has already played
half of its schedule which in-
cluded some of the most powerful
teams in the country. Three of the

(Continued on page 4)
He Te he eee heed rhe fe fe fe feof ok ode of fete feof fe ode

 

%

THE NEW

White Top

Restaurant
=

A personal invitation
to the
Students
Try our delicious foods
Route 60 East

ewrereeeereerenrrrrrror_crvovror.rvrvrvrrvvvvree

4
4
e
4
4
4
4
4
4
re
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
r
4
4
4
4
4
4
4
rf
4
4
4
4
4

 

See oho oho oe Ze fe ole ooo ole of ole oho oe ofe oho oe oho ofe ofa oe oe

Finest

Choice

 

 

SUNDAY

Ted’s Steak House

Ww

Route 60 Buena Vista

Foods
Meats

DINNERS

 

 

He etoetoofooto nto efoogeoeote sorte oboafeofoogoofooge ofedeeofoofecfedeofoobeofeoe obese ofeoheobeobeobeoedeedebedeeeobeoedeeteade st

We Feature

SEALTEST

Dairy Products
“To get the best get Sealtest”

over twenty different products in addition to
delicious Sealtest ice cream

Phone

Beebe feferdeeofeohe ete feshesoete

*
Maple-Rock Distributors, Inc.

Block and Crushed Ice

Your favorite mixes—Ice Cold

+
*

HO 3-2168
+

Me vbe obese ob oho oe oes ste oferhe ese whe eo whe oe ot ee eos oof sooo oe oe oe oe seo oe oe oe ooo oe oo oeobo ooo oe

Ee

 

College Outlines
Hymarx Outlines
Made Simple Series

 

WANT TO CUT SHORT THE STUDY???

try our

The Book Shop

W. Washington Street

it nti th thn tt

Barrons Series
Data Guides
Vocabulary Cards

 

 
Page 4

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

N yaradi Calls
U.S. ‘Doomed’

By JACK ATWELL

“Gentlemen, your country and
your way of life are doomed.” These
words were among the first spoken
by Dr. Nicholas Nyaradi, a former
Hungarian Finance Minister, in an
address to a group of students and
professors in duPont Hall on Friday.

Dr. Nyaradi expressed the belief
that the Soviet Union will eventually
destroy the United States unless the
American people begin to recognize
the true nature of the Soviet threat
and understand the goals and tactics
of the Soviet leaders.

At present the director of the
School of International Studies at
Bradley University, Dr. Nyaradi
narrowly escaped from his native
country shortly before the 1947 Rus-
sian takeover in Hungary. During
World War II he fought in the un-
derground against the Nazis, and
after the war he went to Moscow to
negotiate for his government against
Soviet reparations claims. At this
time he came in close contact with
important Communists and was able
to form first-hand opinions of the
extent of the Soviet danger to the
West.

Dr. Nyaradi stressed the attitude
of relentless purpose which he ob-
served in the Kremlin. He warned
against the tendency of mistaking
Nikita Khrushchev for a “roly-poly
Ukrainian peasant” and against mis-
interpreting his ultimate goal which
is the destruction of the United
States and the victory of the uni-
versal Soviet state.

Dr. Nyaradi told his small audi-
ence that the idea of peaceful co-
existence and the catchword “Marx-
ism” are only Communists tools to
be used to confuse free men and to
veil the true Soviet aims.

That we need not perish and that
we can survive were Dr. Nyaradi’s
final points. He spoke optimistically
of the great moral potential of this
country and of the ability of the
United States to outdistance the
Soviet Union by a concentrated in-
dustrial effort.

However, he criticized the atti-

 

 

hae et

STATE

LEXINGTON, VA.

 

 

LAST TIMES TODAY

 

CINEMaAScOPE #|
COLOR by DE LUXE

 

Buddy Hackett
Barbara Eden

 

        
     
  

Cewy UTS
GOOD GRIEF!

A HUNDRED\/ WHAT A WAY TO
AND TWENTY- || LOSE YOUR FIRST
THREE TO GAME OF THE
NOTHING! SEASON..

  

   
   

 

 

      
 

   
 

THEY ALL
WENT HOME
RY

WHERE DID
eee

 

 

 

 

 

   
  

ALL oF } { ALL oF
THEM? THEM!
Snir!
en ben ws olen

 

 

 

    
  

sey “mCP monumey pawn Aq
" n

 

 

| Sewex.

 

 

 

Notice

On Thursday evening, April 20,
the Radio Washington and Lee
program “Kaleidoscope” will pre-
sent a discussion of the student
referendum on the honor system
and student body constitution.
Present for the discussion will be
Kent Frazier, president of the stu-
dent body, and Greyfred Grey,
editor of the publication Protest
and one of the sponsors of the pro-
posed reform.

 

tudes of certain American corpora-
tions and unions and expressed pes-
simism about the indifference of
many American citizens and their|
unwillingness to face realistically the |
danger in which they live. Dr.
Nyaradi compared the courageous
character of a 15-year-old Hungar-
ian girl who used herself as a living
torch to blow up a Soviet tank dur-
ing the 1956 revolt to that of a young,
American “Elvis” fan.

Dr. Nyaradi’s message was sober-
ing and clear; in order to meet the
Communist threat every free man
must begin to think and act—now.

Che Ring-tum Phi
Tuesday Edition

The Ring-tum Phi is published Tues-
day and re during the college year.
It is printed a, the Journalism Labor-
atory Press, ashington and Lee Uni-
versity. The mailing address is Box
899, Lexington, Va,

Entered as second class matter Sep-
tember 20, 1946 at the Post Office, Lex-

 

ington, Va., under the act of March
3, 1878.
National Advertising Representative:

The National Advertisers Service, Inc.,
420 Madison Ave., New York, N.Y.

TE vississiiinnssecvssciinsee Rosewell Page, III
Business Manager.............. Huntley Biggs
Editorial Board
Managing Editor.................. Bill Roberts

Assistant Managing Editor...................0

._Bob Bridewell
Sports Editor.......... see asteve Guild
Associate Editors........ anny Butler, Bill

Smith, Ronnie King
Photography Editor. ... Bill Young
Advertising Manager. erome Dattel
Circulation Manager beisnad Peter Agelesto

News Editor...

  
 

  
 

 

 

 

WED.-THURS.

the Wino{s

Sante ROCK HUDSON LAUREN BACALL

zi ROBERT STACK - DOROTHY MALONE

ROBERT KEITH + A UNIVERSAL-INJERNATIONAL PICTURE

  

 

 

 

 

 

 

The First National Bank

of Lexington
*
has special checking accounts

for students

 

 

 

 

Store Your Winter Clothes
With Us

Fully Insured
PAY NEXT FALL

ROCKBRIDGE LAUNDRY

and

DRY CLEANERS

 

 

 

Frosh To Take Calculus

Washington and Lee’s math pro-
gram will be changed next year,
bringing the curriculum “more in
line with those of northeastern uni-
versities.”

Professor Felix P. Welsh, head of
the math department, has announced
that the freshman courses will em-
phasize calculus, rather than alge-
bra and trigonometry.

“We feel that calculus is much
more useful in applied science than
higher trigonometry and _ algebra.
Mathematics must be taught for its
usefulness, not as an end in itself.”

“There are almost as many theo-
ries on how math should be taught
as there are math teachers. This
curriculum, however, is more in line
with those of our northeastern com-
petitors.”

According to the new catalogue,
Mathematics 1-2 will consist of the
old mathematics 151 (calculus).

 

Tennis Team Plays Friday
(Continued from page 3)

five games that Duke have lost
have been by 5 to 4 scores, and
these were played with the ab-
sence of their team’s top men.

This weekend for the netmen in-
cludes a big schedule as they travel
to Randolph-Macon on Friday, play
Virginia on Saturday, and complete
the weekend against a strong Coun-

mond on Sunday.

 

try Club of Virginia team at Rich-!

Baseball Team Loses
To Bridgewater Nine

Washington
team lost their third game of the
season last Friday when they fum-
bled away a 7-1 contest at Bridge-
water.

Bridgewater’s Eagles scored their
runs in bunches. They got two in
the first, one in the second, one in
the fifth, and three in the eighth.

The Generals’ lone run came in
the seventh, when Jim Russ walked,
was moved up to third, and came
home on the front end of a double
steal.

All told, the Generals could get’

only five hits off Eagle righthander
Tom Kincaid, who struck out 12
in posting his third straight victory.

Only three of the Eagle’s runs
were earned as the Generals com-
mitted five errors.

 

Offer Campaign Changes

(Continued from page 2)

overwhelming majority require can-
didates and parties to state their
stands in a formal announcement.

Party platforms are usually drawn
up and then individual candidates
from the party append their stand
on party issues. With our party
system’s organization, the adoption
of a platform might easily prove
difficult. The statement of belief
by individual candidates is now pos-
sible, however, and should be used
on this campus.

It seems almost futile to point out
that we do have a strong individual
responsibility in the government
policies here at W&L, but at the
same time it seems almost certain
that the freshmen that enter this
University feel this calling and want
to do something about it. Sooner or
later, depending on how well they
have been “assimilated,” they give
up these Platonic notions and crawl
back into their corner of the dorm.

Now is the time to reconsider this
situation. The people that are being
nominated for positions on the Exe-
cutive Committee are more than
qualified to speak effectively for
their point of view.

 

$ HARDWARE 3
* COMPANY 3:

and Lee’s baseball

 

Judge Prettyman

 

JUDGE PRETTYMAN

(Continued from page 1)

Foster and Pope. He headed the
firm’s Washington office, became a
partner, and specialized in tax cases

 

Intramural Standings
(Continued from page 3)

  
  
 

12—Sigma Phi Epsilon .......... 744Y,
13—Lambda Chi Alpha ............ 665
14—Kappa Sigma ..................... 65314
15—Zeta Beta Tau .................. 644

16—Sigma Chi

17—Kappa Alpha ................... 618
REN sisssssessesensiscisiese 492,
SI) asissesssesssssssssesnsnnsosizasszece 275
20—Phi Epsilon Pi. ..........0....... 23214

Here This Week

until 1933.

Following a short time as general
counsel for Internal Revenue Service
and corporation counsel for the Dis-
trict of Columbia, Judge Prettyman
helped establish the Washington law
firm of Hewes, Prettyman and Awalt,
conducting a general practice but
devoting special attention to admin-
istrative law. In 1945, President
Truman nominated him for District
of Columbia Circuit’s United States
Court of Appeals.

Judge Prettyman was chairman of
the President’s Conference on Ad-
ministrative Procedure, and he has
lectured often in this field. His
Dougherty lectures at the Univer-
sity of Virginia have been publish-
ed in book form under the title
Trial by Agency.

Judge Prettyman has been active
in community affairs, serving as
president of the Washington Board of
Trade and president of the Civitan
Club. For 15 years he lectured at
Georgetown University on tax law,
and in 1946 he received an honorary
degree from the institution. He is a
member of the American Bar Asso-
ciation and a former president of the
District of Columbia Bar Associa-
tion.

 

 

 

Radio Hospital

*
Radio, TV, Phonograph
Sales and Service

*

HO 3-3531

 

 

 

 

 

Open a convenient student Checking account
TODAY

at

Rockbridge National Bank

Member Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation

 

 

 

 

The difference is this: Tareyton’s
unique inner filter of ACTIVATED CHARCOAL, definitely proved to
make the taste of a cigarette mild and smooth. It works together with
a pure white outer filter—to balance the flavor elements in the smoke.

Tareyton delivers

Here’s one filter cigarette that’s really different!

Tareyton delivers—and you enjoy—the best taste of the best tobaccos. ap

pu rarer LATEVLON

Dual Filter gives you a

areytln

 

the flavor...

 

“Pure white
outer filter

ACTIVATED
CHARCOAL
inner filter

Product of Me ssdinn ibs Company ~
“nN
Sibaceo is our middle name’ © 4. 7. Co

RS
 

FRIDAY
Edition

Che KRing-tum Phi

Washington and Lee Semi-Weekly Newspaper

FRIDAY
Edition

 

Volume LXI

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA, APRIL 21, 1961

Number 50

 

Robrecht, Suttle Tapped By Independents

Questions Fly, Answers Don’t
As Forum Challenges Candidates

Around 30 interested students
heard the five candidates for the
student body offices exchange views
Wednesday evening in the first
forum held to bring issues to light.

The forum was sponsored by the
Friday Ring-tum Phi and was gen-
erally hailed as a move in the right
direction even though many stu-
dents came away from the session
disappointed in the results.

The five candidates, Rosewell Page,
Ray Robrecht and Charles Com-
mander, Steve Suttle and Bill Out-
man, faced a panel composed of
Nathan Simpson, Ed Webster, Grey-
ford Gray, Robert Ketcham, Mal-
colm Brownlee, Bill Roberts and
George Honts. Student Body presi-
dent Kent Frazier acted as modera-
tor. Questions were also entertained
from the floor.

Opening Remarks

In their opening remarks each of
the candidates stated their position.
(Ed. note: the statements of each
candidate is given in the closest
possible words that he used. It was,
however, impossible to obtain exact
quotations).

Page, the sole candidate for presi-
dent, said he felt the situation is
basically good, but that some revi-
sion is needed. The Honor System, to
him, is the main issue at the pres-
ent, and he defended it by saying
it is the best to be obtained. He
expressed the feeling that the gen-
eral EC meetings should be covered
by the paper or open to the general
student body.

Charles Commander, candidate for
vice president, said no _ drastic
changes are needed.

Ray Robrecht, candidate for vice-
president, said it was his feeling that
there is a lack of knowledge in
the student body concerning the
Honor System. He said students must
know what the areas of needed re-
vision are before they can be asked
to support any changes in the sys-
tem.

Bill Outman, candidate for secre-
tary, said no area of needed re-
vision exists.

Steve Suttle, candidate for sec-
retary, commented that a more in-
formed student body is the first
need.

Question from Tony Gray: Have
you spent ten hours studying the
constitution? All five said yes.

Grey: Is the government demo-
cratic? Should it be democratic?

Candidate: How do you mean?

Gray: An Athenian democracy.

Robrecht replied he didn’t think
it would work here since there is not
that great an interest in what goes
on. The EC makes decisions, he
said, and it is subject to review.
“Executive” he continued, means
more than representative.

Commander stated he thought such
a system was too perfect for the
student body. He pointed out that
incompetent members of the com-
mittee can be impeached.

Outman said such a system would
be harmful for the university. In
effect he said the EC is not all in-
clusive and it does not enter every
phase of student life.

Page pointed out that many of
the representative IFC’s attempt to
enact changes are taken back to the
fraternities and hooted down by mi-
norities. He wondered how many
students would participate.

Suttle declared the EC does not
have too much power. The inequality
exists in the party system. He said
the composition of the EC leaves
a large part of the student body
unrepresented.

From the floor: Wouldn’t it be a
good idea to give freshmen points
to remember at the beginning of the
year?

Suttle: Yes, if the questions are
brought up from the students invol-
ved.

From floor: Couldn’t some ques-
tions be anticipated?

Page: No, Only if something is
brought up from the student body,
then it should be ruled on.

Outman: No.

Commander: The field is too broad
to cover.

Robrecht: No, but a definite clari-
fication of certain points si possible.

 

 

Panelist Ketcham asked if any of |

the candidates would desire a change
in the Honor System so that the

EC must be unanimous in declaring
guilt. Five no.’s.

Gray: What will you do to fight] {

apathy?

Robrecht: What kind of apathy?

Gray: Just what will any of you
do if elected. Is there any reason
you should be running except for
the title?

Charles Commander: I have no
proposal. Apathy can’t be changed
by policy. It takes time and more
than one program.

Gray: What would you do for a
start then?

Page: I’ve said it once before to-
night, but one thing is to give more
information to the students. Pub-
lish the minutes of the EC, so the

 

students would know what’s going
on. There is no need for a constitu-

Dave Montgomery
Candidate for Openings Dance

tional revision. I feel the constitu-
tion as it stands is best.

Outman said he would second the
idea.

Robrecht commented that there’s
nothing going on in the EC to be
ashamed of. No one has ever asked
to attend a meeting that he knows
of.

Panelist Ketcham: Do you believe
all punishment under the Honor
System should be the same regard-
less of the nature of the violation?

Commander: Where do you draw
the line? Many cases go deeper
than the rumors of the case show.
I have faith in the judgment of the
EC members.

Robrecht: There are degrees of
honor. But different punishments are
not possible under a workable sys-
tem.

Roberts: How do you tell if it is
a violation?

Page: If doubt exists, the student
should check on it. Ignorance of the
law is no excuse.

Gray: You mean you would con-
demn a man for a fringe violation
in the same degree as an open and
flagrant violation?

Page: You cannot codify the sys-
tem or ever get it down pat.

Suttle: If doubt exists in a case,
ask the professor about it. Again
information is needed; students can
ask EC members for interpretations.

Page: The EC members have to
make value judgments, then decide
the guilt or innocence.

Suttle: There is a way out. Sig-
natures of 50 students can force a
call meeting of the Student Body.
Then it can rescind any action of
the EC.

Ketcham: You do find a difference
in a law court and a Honor System
case?

Page: The manner of procedure
followed is different. The EC is not
a law court; there is no prosecution
or defense. No member of the EC
should drive for a verdict of guilty.
And secrecy protects the innocent.
There are no jury proceedings. The
EC as a whole tries the cases. One
man can’t make the decision.

Craven from floor: I want to know
what you are going to do.

Page: I have no platform. (Craven:
I don’t ask for one). The Honor
System and the Constitution stand
for themselves. I don’t know what
can be done to get more student
participation.

 

Robrecht: You're getting down to|
(Continued on page 4)

  

Ray Robrecht
Candidate for Vice-President

 

Jim Applebaum
Candidate for Fancy Dress

Steve Suttle
Candidate for Secretary

By GEORGE HONTS
Managing Editor
The Independent Party by-passed
' the presidential race and nominated
Ray Robrecht and Steve Suttle, in
that order, for Vice-President and
Secretary of the Student Body in a
Tuesday night caucus.

Rosewell Page, the University
Party presidential candidate, will be
met by no organized opposition in
the Student Body elections Thurs-
day, April 27. For a full explanation
see the letter to the editor on page
two.

Turning to the four dance sets
which round out the big seven of-
fices at stake, the Independents se-
lected Dave Montgomery, a Delt
sophomore from Richmond, for
Openings. Jim Applebaum, a PEP

 

 

Rick Frisbie
Candidate for Springs Dance

Jim Russ
Candidate for Finals Dance

 

Three Chemistry Professors

Are To Receive Promotions

Promotions for three members of
the Washington and Lee University
faculty—all in the department of
chemistry—were announced today
by Dean of the College William W.
Pusey, III.

Military Society
Chooses 17 Men

Seventeen men were elected to
membership in Scabbard and Blade,
the honorary military science fra-
ternity, late Wednesday afternoon.
The number included one senior and
sixteen members from the junior
class in ROTC.

Elected from the senior class was
Jack Soper, of Kansas City, Mis-
souri.

From the junior class, Cal Calla-
way, of Johnson City, Tenn.; Tony
Council, of Fort Smith, Ark.; Al
Curran, of Washington, D.C.; Rick
Frisbie, of Arlington, Va; Roy
Goodwin, of Augusta, Ga.; James
Gwinn, of Huntington, W. Va.; Bob
Hamner, of Hampton, N. H.; Ned
Hobbs, of New Canaan, Conn.
George Honts, of Eagle Rock, Va.;
Jerry Hyatt, of Damascus, Md.;
Allyn Kantor, of Memphis, Tenn.;
Ray Miller, of Baltimore, Md.; Billy
Myers of Mobile, Ala.; Fred Nelson,
(Continued on page 4)

 

James Warburg To Appear
At Annual SIPA Meet

James P. Warburg, nationally
known economist, and Clifford Dow-
dey, novelist and Civil War histor-
ian, will be featured speakers at
the 32nd annual convention of the
Southern Interscholastic Press As-
sociation held here April 28-29.

The event, which is aimed at im-
proving excellence in scholastic pub-
lishing, will draw more than 1,000
high school journalists from 175 pre-
paratory and high schools from ten
Southern states and the District of
Columbia.

Warburg, author of some 27 books,
will speak on “Reville for Rebels”
Friday afternoon at 12:05 in Dore-

(Continued on page 4)

 

Dr. John H. Wise will be promoted
from associate professor to profes-
sor. Dr. J. Keith Shillington and
Dr. William J. Watt, both assistant
professors, will become associate
professors. All promotions are effec-
tive September 1, Dean Pusey said.

Dr. Wise, 40, a B.A. graduate of
Haverford College and a PhD.
graduate of Brown University,
joined the Washington and Lee fac-
ulty in 1953. During World War II
he was a chemist for the Manhattan
Project which was engaged in de-
veloping the atomic bomb for the
United States. In 1954 and 1955 he
was a summer participant in re-
search activities at the Oak Ridge
National Laboratory.

Prior to his Washington and Lee
appointment, Dr. Wise taught for
six years at Stanford University.
Last year, he was on leave of ab-
sence from Washington and Lee as
a visiting professor at Brown Uni-
versity in a program supported by
the National Science Foundation.
He is a native of Marysville, Pa.

Dr. Shillington, 39, a native of
Clarion, Iowa, received his B.S. de-
gree at Iowa State College and his

(Continued on page 4)

Broaddus Gets
Fulbright Award

John A. Broaddus, Jr., a Sigma Nu
senior from Richmond, has_ been
awarded a Fulbright Scholarship for
study in France next year, Dr. C.
W. Turner announced today.

Dr. Turner, who is chairman of
the Fulbright Scholarships on the
W&L campus, said that Broaddus
will study at the University of Stras-
bourg. He will specialize in political
and and economic studies while in
France, Dr. Turner added.

Approximately nine hundred
grants for graduate study abroad in
the year 1961-62 are being awarded,
the American history professor said.

The international educational ex-
change program is designed to pro-
mote a better understanding of the
United States in other countries,
and to increase mutual understand-
ing between the people of the U.S.
and other countries, he said.

Broaddus is a member of Phi Beta
Kappa, Omicron Delta Kappa, is
president of this year’s Finals Dance
Set. He served as vice-president of
the junior class last year, and was
historian of his sophomore class.

The only other Washington and
Lee student to have received a Ful-
bright Award this year was James
A. Vann.

 

 

Norris Houghton To Lecture
On American Theatre Trends

Norris Houghton, a stage director,
designer and author, will speak at
8:15 p.m. on April 25 in the duPont
Auditorium. The subject of Hough-
ton’s speech is “Trends in Contem-
porary American Theatre,” and it
will be the thirty-eighth Washington
and Lee Seminar in Literature.
Houghton has taught drama at
Princeton, from which he graduated
in 1931, Columbia, Barnard, Smith,
Vassar, where he was adjunct pro-
fessor of drama and guest director
of the Experimental Theatre in
1958-1960,

Among his productions in the
theatre are: In Clover, Stopover,
How to Get Tough About It, White-
oaks, Dame Nature, Waltz in Goose-
step, Good Hunting, The Sleeping
Prince, and Billy Budd. Houghton
has been art director for the St.

Louis Municipal Opera, director of
Elitch’s Gardens Theatre in Denver,
Col., and a producer and director
for CBS television.

Houghton has written Moscow
Rehearsals, 1936; Advance from
Broadway, 1941; But Not Forgotten,
1961; and edited Great Russian Short
Stories, 1958. Between 1945 and 1948
he was associate editor of Theatre
Arts Magazine. He has been an of-
ficer of the American Theatre and
Academy, and twice a recipient of a
Guggenheim Fellowship, his second
award is for this year.

in Literature are sponsored by the

 

ton Literary Society, the Shenan-
a and the Department of Eng-
lish.

 

| Montgomery, Applebaum, Russ
And Frisbie In Dance Set Race

junior from Kew Garden Hills, N. Y.,
will seek the Fancy Dress presiden-
cy. Rick Frisbie, a Kappa Sigma
junior from Arlington, Va., is the
candidate for Springs Dances. And
Jim Russ, a Phi Psi junior from
Holidaysburg, Pa., will vie for the
Finals Dance Set.

Robrecht, an intermediate law stu-
dent from Plainfield, N. J., has been
tapped for ODK and will represent
Alpha Circle at a National meeting
in the near future. He is head dor-
mitory counselor and past president
of Phi Gamma Delta. Robrecht is
now the Executive Committee rep-
resentative from the intermediate
law class. He is a boxer; and he has
contributed to the Law Review.

Suttle, a junior from Uvalde, Tex.,
is past president of Delta Tau Delta
and secretary of the junior class. A
Dean’s List student, he is co-cap-
tain and star quarterback of the un-
beaten Five-Star Generals’ football
team. The Lexington Junior Cham-
ber of Commerce recently chose him
for their outstanding athlete award.
Suttle also plays varsity lacrosse,
and is a member of the Varsity Club.
He has also represented his house
in the IFC and will be Rush Chair-
man next year.

Montgomery is secretary of the
sophomore class and a Robert E.
Lee Scholar. He was the first In-
dependent Party member to be
chosen for membership on the Stu-
dent War Memorial Scholarship
Fund Committee in recent years.
He is secretary-treasurer of the Stu-
dent Service Society and a fraternity
officer. Montgomery is co-captain of
the wrestling team and a member of
the Cotillion Club. A Dean’s List
student he has contributed to the
Ring-tum Phi and the Calyx.

Applebaum is business manager
of Shenandoah and was vice presi-
dent of the 1961 Fancy Dress Ball.
He is a fraternity officer and active
in the Glee Club. While maintaining
Dean’s List grades, Applebaum has
appeared in several Troubadour pro-
ductions. He has been a member of
the soccer team.

Frisbie is vice president of Kappa
Sigma and has represented his house
on the IFC. He is a member of the
Glee Club, Scabbard and Blade, and
the Cotillion Club. His activities also
include the Gaines Guard.

Russ, a Dean’s List student, is a
fraternity officer and a member of
the Student Service Society. He
played freshman basketball and has
been a starting member of the foot-
ball and baseball teams for three
years. He is a member of the Varsity
Club. Russ is also active on the
Southern Collegian,

The Independent Party, which is
on the short side of a 10-8 split in
the fraternities, claims to be down
125 votes before the balloting begins.
But some Independent Party spokes-
men are optimistic.

One of the party leaders said
“The Party has a good chance to
take four of the big seven positions.”
Last year the Independent Party
captured Fancy Dress and came
within 30 votes of winning three
other top offices.

However, the outcome of this
year’s election can not be safely pre-
dicted. Both parties have intensified
their campaigning and _ tightened
their organization. The candidates
have been “hitting the trail” in the
dorm and visiting fraternity houses.
The unprecedented forum sponsored
Wednesday by the Friday edition
of the Ring-tum Phi gave the top
five candidates a chance to state
their views on vital issues and to
give the students a fresh look at
familiar faces. This, too, may influ-
ence the election.

The imbalance in power came in
1958 when the Sigma Chi house led
a splinter of the then-dominant In-
dependent Party in the now-domi-
nant University Party. With a work-
able majority guaranteed the party
in power, whichever it may be, can
control the political situation to a
great degree. There are, however,

| some signs of the rigid lines of party
| voting being broken. The change in

The Washington and Lee Seminars |

Graham-Lee Society, the Washing- |

voting patterns is caused, some ob-
servers feel, by the weakening of
ties between upperclassmen and
their fraternity freshmen. More in-
dependent voting among upperclass-
men is also in evidence.
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 2

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

Che King-tum Phi
Friday Edition

Member of Virginia Intercollegiate Press Association

 

Vacillating

Candidates

Merit No Endorsement

The Friday Edition of the Ring-tum Phi does not choose to
endorse a slate of candidates in the forthcoming student body
elections. Our Editorial Staff heartily concurs in this decision
to break with a practice historically followed by this newspaper.

Let us make it clear that we are not evading the issue, nor
are we abrogating such a policy because of considerations other
than those of insuring a vital and improved student govern-
ment. We feel that the only purpose served by the selection of
a slate at this time would be the distortion of facts and issues
that demand an accurate and unbiased appraisal.

We could possibly, with negligible reflection, endorse three
of the five announced candidates for president, vice president,
and secretary on the basis of what we consider to be their po-
tential for meeting the demands of the respective offices—in
other words their ability. But this alone, unfortunately, is not
the only prerequisite for Executive Committee service.

Borne out by Wednesday evening’s forum, we feel that
there is a noticeable lack of purpose, avowed or otherwise, in-
forming the motives of some, if not all, of these candidates.
Their stands on certain campus problems reflect definite diagno-
ses of the situation—for example, each agreed and cited apathy
as a deterrant to effective student government, both legislative
and judicial—but there was little or no prognosis offered. In
other words, the candidates understood our problems, but posed
no possible solutions. When challenged with the reality of this
indictment, each responded with stock platitudes, save one,
who suggested that the minutes of the Executive Committee’s
legislative sessions be made public.

The same candidate that offered this positive proposal,
which is to a degree indicative of his purpose for seeking office,
was the only student, in our opinion, that demonstrated a clear
and acceptable position on the nature of honor. We feel that
Representative Page’s understanding of this abstract quality and
its ramifications in our system were noteworthy. For the benefit
of the other candidates, each of whose answers indicated a re-
luctance or failure to grasp this concept, honor is not manifest
in degrees—it is most absolute. There are no shades of honor—
either an act is honorable or it is dishonorable. As far as peri-
pheral areas are concerned, remoteness exists only in the situa-
ation provoking an honorable or dishonorable response, not in
the concept of honor itself. Because of their obvious failure to
ascertain such basic concepts over and above the practical man-
ifestations of the honor system and the constitution, we feel that
each of the candidates, save Page, should effect a stronger grasp
upon the principles, and their techniques should logically fol-

low.

Unless the candidates lucidate their stands and clear up
their obvious inconsistencies of thought, they are not suitable
to serve in the capacity to which they now seek nomination and
election. We would suggest that rather than taking meals at
fraternity houses and sponsoring kegs, each candidate should
crystallize his proposals and seek every possible opportunity
to present them to the student body. If a candidate feels that
the status quo should be maintained, let him give his reasons
why. If he advocates change, let him state what change and
why. If they are to lead, they might as well begin this evening
and convince this student body of their ability and dedication
to cope with the tender situations that now confront Washing-
ton and Lee’s student government.

We suggest that the candidates take advantage of the nomi-
nating convention—now a mere formali¢y—and either offer
their stands or have them cited by the persons placing their
names in nomination. We would also advocate another forum,
and are willing to sponsor it, prior to election day at which time
the candidates can be prepared to defend their proposals.
Unless such a situation can be realized, and unless these can-
didates can take a positive, definite and dynamic stand on cur-
rent issues as well as convince the student body of their inten-
tions and qualifications, we suggest, in the best interest of
Washington and Lee, that the cliques meet again and find some-

body who can and will.

RES IPSA LOQUITUR

 

Executive Committee Hopefuls
Need Clearly Drawn Proposals

By ROBERT C. KETCHAM
Friday Columnist

The five prospective members of
next year’s EC had their first trial
in the Student
Union Wednesday
night. Trial in the
sense that they
were expected to
give their various
views on the hon-

improve the gov-
erning of the stu-
dent body, and
proposals implicit
in their prospec-
tive positions as

   

Ketcham
campus leaders.

This writer was not impressed by
the general overall tone of the an-
swers relating to these issues. Since
it was the first time that candidates
have been expected to state their
views publically, criticism in gross
quantities is probably uncalled for.
However, the men running for these
positions should be able to express
themselves as to basic concepts of
honor and furthermore, each should
have in his own mind reasons for
effecting or not effecting a change.

The only really constructive pro-
posal that I found to come out of
the session was the idea of publish-
ing the minutes of the Monday meet-
ing of the EC. It might also be
stated that in response to a yes-no
vote Steve Suttle was the only one
to respond in the affirmative.

With the current campus discus-
sion and criticism of the present
EC as to the handling of cases, right

 

i:

of defense counsel, charging the
accused with the specific offense
and even the notion of differing de-
grees of punishment, more should
have been said.

That is to say, there was little or
no mention by the candidates as to
the basis of their beliefs. They did
not couch thier answers in the neces-

or system, ways to; sary foundation, or so it seems to

me, that honor is narrowly defined
to include lying, cheating and steal-
ing. That our system should not be
stretched to correspond to the ac-
cusatory system adopted by the
states because of its uniqueness in
relating to the students of this uni-
versity.

The recent EC case over which so
much controversy has raged was
mentioned by implication in more
than one candidate’s answer. The de-
cision was agreed with. That is all
fine and good, but it was stated
why it was agreed with. The candi-
dates stayed on the fringe, they did
not seem ready to come to grips with
the problem.

I would think, after reading the
facts available, that honor did neces-
sitate the decision reached. What
was needed by the candidates in
their explanation was a statement
which recognizes that our system
gives a black-white definition. That
our system cannot recognize degrees
of honor, a matter is either honor-
able or dishonorable.

Another cloud was born when the
question of student apathy was
raised and led into a burden on the

 

Candidates Are Astute Politicians
Student Forum Is Step Forward

By GEORGE HONTS
Managing Editor

All five of the candidates for the
big three offices showed themselves
to be astute politicans at the Wed-
nesday night forum. When caught in
a sharp volley of questions they
all showed the resistence of five
bowls of jelly. Actually, no one there
would have liked to have attempted
an answer to some of the questions
put to the candidates, but their re-
sponse in some instances was want-
ing.

Nevertheless the forum was more
than worthwhile, it was highly en-
lightening. It is especially significant
that this first attempt to get an in-
sight to the views of the candidates
was made at this time—a time when
century-old traditions are being
challenged by a modern and not so
perfect generation. Certainly sev-
eral “myths” both favorable and
unfavorable, were resolved by the
open and frank discussion.

Before discussing the candidates,

let me make it explicit that I am!

writing as an observer and not as a
member of either political party.
Rosewell Page will be the next
president of the student body. He
would be the obvious choice even
if he were opposed by the best in
either party. He is well qualified.
And in the hour and a half session
Wednesday he showed more maturi-
ty than any of the other candidates.
This is not to say that his perform-
ance was perfect, for it was not. It
was, however, honest. He stated
flatly that he had no platform and
didn’t want one. He confirmed his
faith in the political system and con-
stitution and honor system as being
the best for the University at this
time. He presented few concrete
ideas, however. This will, perhaps,

 

work to his and to the university’s
advantage. Page showed himself to

 

be a conservative and a go-slower,
but he did not leave the impression
of having a closed-mind on any sub-
ject.

The vice-presidential race hangs
in a delicate balance. Ray Robrecht,
with EC and dormitory counselor
experience, might have been ex-
pected to run rough-shod over
Charles Commander in the question
session. He did not. There is no

| doubt Robrecht is the better quali-

fied of the two, but Commander met
him point-on-point. The “Good-
time Charlie” image which has been
built in some minds disappeared be-
hind a serious countenance and log-
ical, if not specific answers, to point-
ed questions. There is ample reason
to, or not to, endorse either can-
didate. Robrecht’s qualifications give
him an edge, but Commander’s per-
formance indicates he would be a
capable officer.

While neither Suttle nor Outman
were over-impressive, Suttle came
out the better for the encoun-
ter. Outman, whose abilities mer-
it consideration, was just too
vague in his answers to specific
questions. Indeed, he was so deliber-
ate that some of the meaning of
his answers was lost. Suttle on
the other hand, did not show the
fight that a candidate facing such
odds would be expected to display.
Interestingly enough, Suttle was the
only one of the five who dissented
on even one question which was
answered by a simple “yes” or “no.”
Whether this was to his advantage
remains to be seen. (The real draw-
back to the whole session was that
one candidate would voice an opin-
ion and the four others would merely
echo the original answer). Outman
certainly must have more ability
than he displayed Wednesday. On
the other hand, Suttle din’t rise much
above par for the group. Being
biased, let’s leave it there.

 

«

candidates to state, individually,
what constructive proposals they
might have to better the campus
situation. The question was admit-
tedly broad and gave each candidate
a great deal of space to state their
proposals.

So what happened? Nothing. Why
were the candidates not able to bring
up on their own accord the weakness
of the IFC for example, a better sys-
tem of honor orientation, or an
analysis of why raincoats and um-
brellas have been disappearing like
whiskey during a prohibition raid?

Doubtless because either they
have not formulated any policies at
the present time, they have none, or
believe in the status quo. This is
only my _ impression but after
listening as closely as possible there
seems to be none other, though I
wish there were.

Admittedly the position of these
men in having to answer questions
before a group put them at a dis-
advantage; nevertheless, they are to
be our leaders and should have
been ready.

I believe that these candidates are
as qualified as a group as any slate
which has been put up since I have
attended W&L. This does not, how-
ever, lessen the impact of the “trial”
Wednesday night because of the
void of ideas for improvement which
was coupled with the inability, as
I saw it, to cope with basic concept
of honor and its applicability here
at Washington and Lee.

 

Forum Indicates
Candidates Are
Lacking Purpose

Offer Only Two Proposals

By MALCOLM BROWNLEE
Friday Columnist

My experience at the forum of
candidates for next year’s Execu-
tive Committee
could be describ-
ed as that of an
idealist becoming
disillusioned.

Before the for-
um started, I hop-
ed and expected
that the candidates
would propose
some concrete
a changes in the

present system.
mnie The naivete of the
idealist can be great indeed.

The candidates constantly begged
the questions put to them. All of
them admitted that some changes
were needed in the University, but
only two changes (making all E.C.
legislative meetings public and mov-
ing dance sets to the Commons)
were proposed. Few professors grad-
ing test papers have ever encountered
greater hemming and hawing than
was displayed by the candidates at
the forum.

All of the candidates have far
greater abilities than they showed
Wednesday night. All of them are in-
telligent; all are leaders. But at the
forum they demonstrated neither
their intelligence nor their ability
to lead. I was particularly disap-
pointed in Robrecht and Suttle
mostly because I expected much
from them. I have been amazed at
times by the leadership abilities of
both of them, but Wednesday night
they failed to live up to my expec-
tations.

(Continued on page 4)

   

Ready-Made Platform Offered To Politicians

By THORNS CRAVEN

Friday Columnist

By now I assume that you all
know that “Heads or Tails” was an
artistic success and a financial flop.
And probably
most of you help-
ed out in this one
way or the other.
At least the Troub
Theatre was filled
every night. I’m
afraid that most
of you missed the
best comedy of the
year, however, if
you passed up the
one night stand in
the Student Union
on Wednesday night. I think that
you will find some reference to this
show elsewhere on this page, but

 

Craven

 

they needn’t bother you. It must
have been a joke.

What happened was simple enough.
The “Big Five” vying for the “Big
Three” met on neutral ground and
ended up in No Man’s Land. You’ve
all heard the story by now, and I
imagine that you all expected it to
happen sooner or later. It was final-
ly brought to light that nobody really
knows why they’re getting all those
straight party votes. Everybody was
stuck for some suggestions to make
about how to improve on the status
quo. So, once more, in the interest
of better government, bigger busi-
ness, and the high ideals and tradi-
tions of Washington and Lee, I’m
going to present the ready made
platform. This will be good for any
office (void after January 1, 1958),
and can be trotted out at any party
beer party or fraternity speech. It

 

will center around answers to the|

following question, which was posed
and reposed at the Wednesday Night
Fight (under the sanction of James
B. Norris, of course).

The question is: “Mr. Candidate,
what improvements do you propose
to make around the dear old campus
here in tradition bound Lexington?”

The answers are (stage directions
in parentheses):

1. “I’m glad you asked that ques-
tion.” (After saying this, tilt your
head, button your coat, shift your
weight, and take the cotton out of
your ears.)

2. “Of course.”
above.)

3. “Yes, I think so, and I’m pre-
pared to do so, but of course I
will stay within the bounds of the
System as it is set up now, and I
wouldn't want to tamper with a

(Same pose as

 

thing like that.” (There is no proper
stance with this answer, so fake it.)

As you have no doubt noticed,
these answers are rather ridiculous.
Don’t let that steer you away from
using them. On the contrary, they
are very effective for opening re-
marks. But as the questioning pro-
gresses, and as you begin to under-
stand the question (look back at the
question as it is printed above so
you will be completely familiar with
it) you may want to go on into more
complex answers, and perhaps even
some concrete ones. Be careful!

4. “I’ve had an idea for a long
time now about that, and I think
that I will be able to do some-
thing about it if I am elected.” (In
your stance be sure to appear that
you know what “that” is. Ignorance
on this point is fatal.)

5. “Although I stand on my record

 

I realize that steps forward must
be taken. This is why I advocate
fixing all the forward steps on
campus.” (An air of experience
can be used with this answer to
great advantage. Speak softly, and
parry any kick.)

6. “Don’t misunderstand me, I’m
all for getting everything on the
record. As a matter of fact, I’ve got-
ten the glee club to make a little
campaign record and I want you all
to hear it. And by the way, did
you all know that I can sing too?”
(This appeals to minority groups.)

7. “Yes, I do have some changes
that I want made, and if elected I
will do my best to initiate the prop-
er action. Unfortunately I am not at
liberty to discuss these changes at
this time, but I will make a public
statement at the big Party Victory

(Continued on page 4)

 

 

LETTERS

TQ THE

pitoR

Johnston, Hyatt Explain
Why Page Is Unopposed

Editor—Friday Edition
Ring-tum Phi
Lexington, Va.

Dear Sir:

The recent decision of the Inde-
pendent Party not to run a candi-
date for the office of student body
president has been questioned by

\3

 

/many people. We decided against

nominating a student for this posi-

| tion in light of qualifications of the

University Party’s candidate. We
know of no student who would run
against Rosewell Page.

We filled the rest of the slate
with members of the student body
whom we are confident are capable
and well-qualified to hold the po-
sitions for which they were nomi-
nated.

BILL JOHNSTON, Chairman
JERRY HYATT Secretary

Independent Party

Vardaman Offers Proposals
To Executive Committee

Editor—Friday Edition
Ring-tum Phi
Lexington, Va.

Dear Sir:

The Honor System at Washington
and Lee has recently been the topic
of much discussion. On the whole
I am in favor of the present Honor
System, but I do belive that there
are two procedural reforms that
would improve it. I hope that this
letter will serve to stimulate student
interest and support of these ideas:

Instead of the present two-thirds
vote of the Executive Committee
to convict a student of an honor
violation, I believe that an unan-
imous decision should be required.
It has been argued that it would
be practically impossible to secure
a conviction if a unanimous de-
cision were required, and _ this
would bring about the downfall of
the Honor System. This makes it
seem necessary to have a few con-
victions every year to make the
Honor System work. Is this true?
There also arises the question of
whether or not a man should be
convicted if four people have a
reasonable doubt to his guilt. Ad-..
mittedly there will be human error
under either system, but would it
not be better to err in letting a
guilty student remain here than in
convicting an inocent student and
placing a permanent blemish on
his life record?

A second proposal would re-
quire the Executive Commitee to
present the suspended student with
an exact statement of charges be--
fore he is required to make his de-
cision concerning his option to
voluntarily withdraw from the
University. I make this proposal
for the simple reason that in all
fairness to the student involved, I
believe he should know the speci-
fic charge or charges against him
before he makes a decision that
will affect his entire life.

I believe that these two proposals
should be considered in order that
students brought before the Execu-
tive Committee will receive justice
in the fullest sense of its meaning.

JACK VARDAMAN

 

Notices

The elections for editors and
business managers of the Ring-
tum Phi and The Southern Colle-
gian will be held at the Student
Union at 2 p.m. on Monday, May
1. All persons interesting in apply-
ing for these positions should have
a copy of their grade point ratios
for last semester and their overall
ratio.

The general elections for Stu-
dent Body offices will be held
Thursday, April 27. All students
are urged to vote in these elec-
tions.

 

a“ .
Che Ring-tum Phi
Friday Edition

The Ring-tum Phi is published Tes-
day and Friday during the college year.
It is printed by the Journalism Labor-
atory Press, ashington and Lee Uni-
versity. The mailing address is Box
899. Lexington, Va,

Entered as second class matter Sep-
tember 20, 1946 at the Post Office. Lex-
ington, Va., under the act of March
3, 1878.

National Advertising Representative:
The National Advertisers Service. Inc.,
420 Madison Ave., New York, N.¥

Editor-in-Chief................ Nathan Simpson
Business Manager.............. Huntley Biggs
Editorial Board
Managing HEditor................ George Honts

Assistant Managing Editor
Sonesta aiiiuusiaiiaiduiatnibiviid cs Roy Go

News Editor., te "ae Wen

Sports Editor John Allgood

Copy Editor,. Tom Jordan

Assistant Copy Editor Dick Heard

Photography ‘Editor.............. Bill Bowen

  
  

 
t
:

 

 

 

 

omni

 

 

THE RING-TUM PHI

Page 3

 

BLAST HAMPDEN-SYDNEY, 111-28

 

Trackmen In Orbit, Speed To 12th Win In Row

By JOHN ALLGOOD
Sports Editor
W&L’s track team swept six
events Thursday as it waltzed to its
12th straight dual meet win with a

 

111 1/3-28 2/3 over Hampden-
Sydney.

The General cindermen, looking
better than ever, brought home all
three places in the 100-yard dash,

Phil McCaleb clears the five foot, six mark in recent track meet.

—Photo by Bowen

 

NEW CAPTAIN

 

Maynard Ranks 12th
In U.S. Breaststroke

Elliott Maynard, W&L’s new swimming captain, is the

number 12 breaststroker in the

In official statistics released this*

|'Wind Pulls Trick; Smith

week by the NCAA, Maynard’s
1:04.4 time in the 100-yard breast-
stroke ranked 12th in the nation
among all collegiate swimmers.

Maynard missed an All-Ameri-
can berth by four-tenths of a
second.

Maynard, a junior from Portland,
Me., cut two seconds off his best
1959-60 time. Last year he finished in
the top 20 breaststrokers. To illus-
trate how all the swimming times
have improved this year. Maynard’s
1:04.4 would have earned him the
number three spot last year.

Representing Washington and Lee
for the second straight year in the
Eastern NCAA Swimming Meet, |
Maynard finished second in the 100- |
yard breaststroke and fifth in the

 

200-yard breaststroke.

“Maynard’s one of the smoothest |
breaststrokers in the country,” said |
Coach Norris Eastman. “He’s not.
a bull in the water.”

The swimming team gave Maynard
another honor last week when they
elected him captain for the 1961-62
season.

 

    
   
 
    

 

HICKMAN’S ESSO

South Main Street
HO 3-2024

 

TEXACO
Super Service Station
Lexington, Virginia
Corner Main and Nelson
Se ececececescccee0eccs

 

TETLOW
TV Service

 

221 S. Main HO 3-2841

 

 

country.

 

Prays, Makes Catch;
Miracle? No, Skill

Besides playing West Virginia and
a snow storm at the same time Mon-
day, the W&L baseball team had to
fight a strong wind.

The wind produced the game’s
wierd play in the fifth inning. Jim
Procopio, West Virginia outfielder,
hit what appeared to be a routine
fly ball to center. But the wind
played a prank.

W&L leftfielder Sandy Smith, who
had come in to back up on the catch,
suddenly saw the ball falling right
at him. He said a prayer, dropped
to his knees, and caught the ball.

 

SPENCER

General Tire
536 E. Nelson Street

Best in Tires
GENERAL

Best in Recapping
Kraft Tread

New and Used Tires
FOR COMPACT CARS

 

the 120-yard high hurdles, the
javelin, the broad jump, the pole
vault, and the hop-step-jump.

Hampden-Sydney managed only
two firsts, both by its number one
trackman, Bill Caperton. Caperton
edged Skip Essex in the fastest 440
that W&L has seen in several years.
Then the 6-0 speedster handed
captain Jim Hickey his first loss of
the year in the 220.

Caperton had a :50.5 in the 440
and a :22.9 in the 220.

Essex blazed out ahead of Caper-
ton in the 440, but the H-S star ran
his race perfectly and edged Es-

 

Spring Soccer Practice
Starts Monday, April 28

Spring soccer practice will start
Monday April 24 and _ continue
through Friday, April 28. There will
be an intrasquad game April 28.
Prectice will be from 3:30 to 5:30
daily. All interested students are
to draw their equipment at the
stadium Saturday, April 22 from
1:3 30 to 2:30.

The Friday Staff of the Ring-
tum Phi will meet Wednesday at

 

5:15 p.m.

 

W&L’s baseball team split what
appeared at times to be a double-
header snowball fight with West Vir-
ginia University Monday at Morgan-
town.

The Generals lost the first game, |

3-0, but won the second with a four |
run rally in the seventh (and last) |
inning, 4-3.

Brice Gamber, freshman left-
hander, was tagged for the loss in
the first game, although he gave
up only five hits.

A lack of punch at the plate hurt
the Generals, who were blanked by
Mountaineer righthander Tom Shaf-
er, the pitcher whom they beat last
year in Lexington, 1-0, in thirteen
innings.

The Mountaineers scored single
tallies in the second, fourth, and
sixth innings, handing Gamber his
first loss of season against no wins.

errr rer rrr rrr rr)
NEW TOWN INN 5
Short Orders—Lunches

Catering to Students

 

Peeeseceees

Frenereneneerernenenetoe

 

Traditional
W&L BLAZER
With University Crest
and Buttons

The
COLLEGE TOWN

Shop

Student Charge Accounts
Welcomed

 

 

 

Lexington
Laundro Matic

209 S. Main

*

HAND IRONED
SHIRTS

Dry Cleaning

Service

for your convenience

 

 

 

 

Free TV—Phones—Continental Breakfast
Only Motel in corporate limits of Lexington
OOCOOOCOOOOOOOOOOOOOESOODO LODE OEOO OOOO EE OESELOSS

FOR ROOM RESERVATIONS—CALL HO 3-2151
LEXINGTON MOTEL

“
.
°
e Large Rooms—U. S. 11 By-Pass South
®
°
°
°
®

FOREIGN CARS AND STUDEBAKER LARKS
OUR SPECIALTY

Expert Motor Work

Open 8:00 a.m.—8:00 p.m.

MAIN STREET MOBIL STATION

 

 

sex by five-tenths of a second for
first. Essex’s :51.0 cut two and three-
tenths seconds off his best previous
440 time this year.

Mack Brownlee and Ken Kowalski
turned in the day’s outstanding per-
formances for the Generals. Brown-
lee ran a 2:02.5 in the 880, which

bettered the best 880 time this year
by four seconds.

Kowalski continued his climb to-
ward his 200-foot goal in the javelin
with a throw of 174’ 2 1/2”.

Freshman Henry Sackett led
the Generals’ scoring with 11
points. Sackett claimed first in

the broad jump with a jump of
20’ 3 1/4”, second in the hop-step-
jump with a leap of 40° 8 1/2”,
and second in the 100-yard dash
with a :10.7 time.

Robin Kell broke the hop-step-
jump record that he set against
(Continued on page 4)

 

 

Base coach signals runner to hold-up as Chuck Lane onags a toss.
Carpenter Stops West Virginia, 4-3, In Final
Of Two-Game Snow Fight; Mounties Win Ist, 3-0

In the second game the Generals
put together three walks and three
hits in the seventh to score four
runs and gave Carpenter the win.

The Mountaineers scored twice in|
the third, and once in the fifth, and)

appeared to have the game wrap-
ped up as W&L came to bat in the

 

top of the seventh.

Then Robin Wood and Ned Hobbs
drew back-to-back walks, Sandy
Smith singled to load the bases, and
Carpenter drew a pass to bring in
the first run. Ed Burnell struck out,

on the play. Park Gilmore singled
to bring in Smith, and Howard Mar-
tin’s single brought Flanagan home
with the fourth run.

The win for Carpenter brings his

season record to 2-2. Overall, the

and Lou Flanagan forced Carpenter | Generals are now 4-4 against college
at second, Hobbs scoring from third | competition.

 

a

the farther
smoke trave/s
Air-Softened,
the milder,
the cooler,
the smoother |
it tastes

 

 

i

THIS ONE’S
THE SATISFIER

Make a date with flavor. Try Chesterfield King. +
Every satisfying puff is A/r-Softened to enrich th.
flavor and make it mild. Special porous paper

lets you draw fresh air into the full king length of
top-tobacco, straight Grade-A all the way.

Join the swing to

CHESTERFIELD KING

 
  
 
 
 
 
  

Mi

@ ligget! & Myers Tobacco Cay
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Page 4

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

Washington And Lee Glee Club Plans Spring Tour;
Schedules Visits To Richmond And Wilmington, Del.

The Washington and Lee Univer-
sity Glee Club will take its annual
Spring tour May 2 through May 4.

The three-day trip will include
four concerts and will take the club
to Richmond and to Wilmington,
Del. Prof. Robert Stewart, director,
and his singers will leave Lexing-
ton Tuesday, May 2 and sing that
night in the University of Rich-
mond auditorium as guests of West-
hampton (Women’s) College.

On to Wilmington

The Glee Club will then motor to
Wilmington the next day for an af-
ternoon and evening concert. At
3 p.m. they will present their pro-
gram at Alfred I. duPont Institute
for Crippled Children. An evening
concert will be given at 8:30 p.m.
at the Tower Hill School Audi-
torium.

The members of the Glee Club
will spend Wednesday night in the
houses of alumni and friends of
Washington and Lee. These spon-
sors will also entertain the visitors
with a party at a Wilmington private
club after the evening concert.

The 1961 Spring tour will end with
a Thursday morning concert in the
Tower Hill Auditorium at the school
assembly.

Recording Session

For the remainder of the school
year, the Glee Club will continue
their recording sessions looking for-

SIPA To Have
Noted Speaker

(Continued from page 1)

mus Gymnasium. A member of the
Roosevelt economic “brain trust”
in 1933, he became financial advisor
to the American delegation to the
World Economic Conference in Lon-
don that same year. During World
War II, he was deputy director of
the Office of War Information, Over-
seas.

Dowdey, who spoke at the 1957
convention will speak Saturday in
Lee Chapel at 12:05 on his fictional
techniques in historical writing. A
pioneer writer in the field of apply-
ing fictional techniques to historical
commentary, Dowdey’s Death of a
Nation has been widely acclaimed.

Also featured on the program
will be cartoonist Jack Mendelsohn
of King Features. He will speak and
draw for an audience at 2:15 Friday
in Doremus Gymnasium.

In addition to the featured speak-
ers, courses in newspaper, yearbook,
and magazine production and pho-
tography are scheduled. Workshops
and discussion groups covering all
phases of scholastic publishing will
also be held.

Approximately 300 newspapers,
magazines, yearbooks, and _ radio
programs are entered in the awards
competition. Highlighting the con-
vention will be the awards luncheon
Saturday when 17 SIPA trophies
will be awarded in various categor-
ies. O. W. Riegel director of the
convention and head of the Depart-
ment of Journalism and Communica-
tions will present the awards.

 

 

 

STANLEY WARNER

STAT

LEXINGTON, VA.

 

 

LASTS TIMES SATURDAY

CiNEmMaScoPE
COLOR by DE LUXE

Buddy Hackett
Barbara Eden

 

 

SUN.-MON.-TUES.

BEST-SELLER!

 

co-starring fH

ND CEREN-ATH CENA
GARY MERRILL-RAYMOND MASSEY Jom puncxMan

ROBERT MIDDLETON costs’ KARL MALDEN “zane

A UNIVERSAL-INTERNATIONAL PICTURE

 

ward to making a record of some of
their songs. Publicity manager Tom
Edwards announced that, if possible,
the record will be sold at next fall’s
Homecoming Weekend.

This year’s Glee Club president,
Don Partington, also announced that
elections for the 1961-62 club will
take place later in May.

Irwin Finishes
Translations

George J. Irwin, associate pro-
fessor of Romance languages at
Washington and Lee University, is
the translator of an English edition
of French sociologist Raymond
Aron’s highly-acclaimed Introduc-
tion to the Philosophy of History,
published this week by the Beacon
Press.

The 349-page volume is the sec-
ond work by Aron translated by
Professor Irwin to be published in
the past year. In August, his rendi-
tion of France: Steadfast and Chang-
ing was published by the Harvard
University Press.

Professor Irwin began
the latest book in 1954,
completed its translation when he
was requested in 1958 to work on
the shorter book on France. Be-
cause of printing delays with the
philosophy study, the later transla-
tion was published first, Professor
Irwin explained.

Aron, professor of sociology at
the Sorbonne in Paris, is the author
of numerous other books and is a
regular contributor to the Paris
newspaper Figaro. The Introduction
to the Philosophy of History has
been accepted by scholars as a
masterwork since its first appearance
in 1938. Professor Irwin’s translation
is the first in English.

A graduate of Washington and
Lee, Professor Irwin has been a
member of the faculty since 1925. In
1921-22 he held a teaching fellow-
ship at Princeton and from 1922 to
1925, he was a Herbert Montgomery
Bergen Fellow at Princeton.

work on
and had

 

Dr. Turner Writes Article

Dr. Charles W. Turner, professor
of history, has written a chapter en-
titled “The Richmond, Fredericks-
burg and Potomac Railroad at War”
which will appear in the book
Civil War Railroad History, it was
announced today. The book will be
published in August.

It was also announced that Dr.
Turner is the editor of the Rock-
bridge County Historical Society
Proceedings—Volume 5. The book
contains addresses given at the
quarterly meetings of the society
and covers the years 1954-1960. A
picture of Washington and Lee will
appear on the cover. The book will
be published in June. In addition Dr.
Turner was editor of Volume 4.

a aR

 

 

 

 

SUN.-MON.

ALFRED
HITCHCOCK'S

 

ay
eae

TUES.-WED.

“MOST SENSATIONAL PRODUCT OF
THE U. S. MOVIE INDUSTRY.” —TIME

 

.

TAI Ay aes

GITIZEN KANE

Past
fe: : ae

icnest-man-it

TNO reTs| Cerone

 

 

 

 

 

Shove oe fe fe ofe whe oe fe ofe ole ofe ole ole of oe ole ole fe of ole oe fe of
CALL BY NUMBER
and Save Time

LEXINGTON
= TELEPHONE CO.

%
Se oberde rhode sfesfesbe she te ofe ode ode ole rhe fe nfo feed ate ode feafeole

ROTC Has Federal Inspection

Each year about this time all the
various ROTC units across the coun-
try are required to undergo a feder-
ally-sponsored inspection, such as
was conducted here Tuesday and
Wednesday.

As is the case with all the other
federally-inspected schools with
ROTC units, W&L’s inspection was
performed by a team of U.S. Army
officers on ROTC duty. The team
was headed by Colonel Richie, the
Professor of Military Science and
Tactics at Pennsylvania State Uni-
versity.

Rounding out the team of three
inspectors were Major Dahmer of
Bucknell University and Captain
Whaley of the University of Del-
aware.

Tuesday evening at eight marked
the formal beginning of the inspec-
tion, with the team looking over the
general administrative and supply
activities. On Wednesday the team
was briefed by Maj. Roxbury, W&L
PMS&T, at eight in the morning,
followed by visits to the classrooms
and drill field throughout the day.

A conference between Col. Richie,
Maj. Roxbury, and President Cole at
three-thirty formally ended the in-
spection, although Maj. Dahmer
took one more look at the Cadet
Corps at the regular Corps Day
Review at 4:45.

 

Commenting on the rating which

the Corps and ROTC Detachment re-
ceived, Maj. Roxbury stated that the
inspecting team found both to be
satisfactory and were generally very
complimentary.

Colonel Richie, the chief inspect-
ing officer, is the PMS&T for a
cadet corps of some 2600 students,
as compared with W&L’s Cadet
Corps of 300.

Military Society
Choses 17 Men
To Be Members

(Continued from page 1)
of Bethel Park, Pa.; Allan Painter,
of Staunton, Va.; and George Van
Sciver, of Bethlehem, Pa.

The initiation ceremony and ban-
quet honoring the new members will
be held within the next two weeks.

The Scabbard and Blade Fraternity
at Washington and Lee has a na-
tional designation of L Company,
10th regiment of Scabbard and
Blade. Elwin Law is captain of this
company serving as the club’s pres-
ident. Nathan Simpson is the vice-
president or first lieutenant, and
John Towler serves as the secretary
or first sergeant. James Vann is the
treasurer of W&L’s detatchment.

 

 

Trackmen Gain 12 Wins In Row

(Continued from page 3)
Richmond last week with a jump of
41’ 11”. Last week he jumped 41’
10 5/8” to break the old school
record by a foot. Kell also scored
a first in the high jump with a 59”
jump.

Following Sackett and Kell in the
scoring were Jim Hickey with
eight; Jim Parker with eight; and
Ken Kowalski with six points.

Other first place winners for the
Generals included Stoney Duffey,
mile (4:58); Mike Shank, two-mile,
(10:41.4); Ed Jansen, high hurdles,
(:16.3); Ashley Wiltshire, low hur-
dles, (:29.3); and Dave Munroe, shot
put, Gz 2.

Both hurdle races proved inter-
esting. In the high hurdles, W&L
took the first four places with Jan-
sen, Preston Lancaster, Ed Croft, and
John Pearson finishing in that order.
Hampden-Sydney entered two men
in the event, but both men dropped
out when W&L’s four-some breezed
into a quick lead.

In the low hurdles, Ashley Wilt-
shire captured his first win of the
year. For the past two weeks, he
has finished second, but yesterday
he led the pack.

Shank was trying to better his best
performance in the two-mile yester-
day, but the “Iron Horse” fell ten
seconds short in his attempt. He
ran a beautiful race, but he did not
have any competition to push him.

Peer rrr rr rT rrr
R. L. Hess and Bro.
JEWELERS
Lexington, Virginia
HO 3-2833

Apoboobertoobecetooeofeoferdeteofeoteteoteoteotestesteteae
@eeeeseseeoono eee eoeeeeeee

*Dodge and Dodge Dart?

 

The Generals go after victories
number six and seven next week.
Tuesday they travel to Lynchburg
for a meet with Lynchburg’s Hor-
nets, and Thursday they entertain
Elon College at Wilson Field.

 

Candidates Need Purpose
(Continued from page 2)

I realize that the candidates had
little time to prepare for Wednesday
night’s forum and that many of the
questions asked them cannot be
be answered simply. I hope that all
of them will further define their
stands on the issue discussed and
before next Thursday will come up
with some concrete suggestions for
bettering our present systems.

But remember, I am an idealist.

 

 

TOLLEY’S PHARMACY
Prescriptions Filled
Immediately

PURCHASE DRUGS
HO 3-2211

 

 

 

 

THE DUTCH INN

For Reservation Call
MRS. KATHERINE ADAMS
HO 3-3433

 

 

 

 

 

_—
I
ee eee eee ee ES Se eS See

Baker
Ford Sales

 

 

oe

2... SSS SS 2 2 2 2S Se 2 2 2 ee 2 2 ee es ee ee 2 2 8 ef
ee ee eee Ss SS eS Ss ee Se eee ee

 

a e

° and Lancer ° BETTER DEALS
. America’s First Fine $

° « CLEARANCE

: ECONOMY CAR : of lot for 1961 Models
e te °

e e

° : NEW AND

¢ Rockbridge Motor Co. : USED CARS

° INC, ° :

$ Phone HObart 3-3146 = ee Oo
secvccccccccccccccoccces Rb eh tebe deel

 

ee
EOE ET et Ee Et OES Mae Ee Ee Ee Ee ge gt PET at ae ae at ee et eg ee ee ee eee

 

 

 

 

 

 

\

THE COLLEGE INN

The Best Food in Town

American and Italian

Catering to the Students, Faculty,
and Towns People

OPEN SUNDAYS

 

 

 

 

 

 

It’s Good usiness

To Do usiness
with IERER’S

PHARMACY

 

 

SSS ee ee

35 S. Main Street
Phone HO 3-4121

 

r
|  Waggy’s Jewelers
-
‘
>
>
>
>

THE HOME OF QUALITY

 

 

J)

 

 

 

Across from the White Top Resturant
HO 3-4214

Wash, Grease, Lube, Road Service

Charge Accounts Welcome

eof ofeoteotestesteotesfestectentententeatetentecteoteoteoteoeat

= ROBERT E. LEE SSSCOSSEHSSOHHHTHOSCESESEOOOOOSCEEEESESESEEOOEEEESESEEOS®E
* BARBERSHOP 9

: , DIXON’S

RH David M. Moore

$ Prepeiotes ; ESSO SERVICE CENTER

Peed egeetedetetetiendeteteiee ROUTE 60 EAST IN LEXINGTON

W&L Names

3 Promotions
For Faculty

(Continued from page 1)

Ph.D. degree at Cornell University.
Prior to joining the Washington and
Lee Faculty in 1953, he held teach-
ing positions at Evansville College
and Amherst College and served as
a graduate assistant at Cornell.

Dr. Shillington has been active in
summer research work under spon-
sorship of the university’s John
M. Glenn Program and the Research
Corporation. He recently attended a
National Science Foundation sum-
mer institute at the University of
North Carolina.

Dr. Watt, 35, is a B.S. graduate
of the University of Illinois and a
M.S. and Ph.D. graduate of Cornell
University. He came to Washington
and Lee in 1955 from Cornell where
he was assistant professor of ad-
vanced inorganic chemistry. He also
taught at Davidson College for two
years.

For three years, Dr. Watt has been
a faculty member of a summer in-
stitute for high school teachers
sponsored by the National Science
Foundation at Alabama College. He
is a native of Carbondale, IIl.

Craven Offers Platform
(Continued from page 2)

Rally to which everyone is invited.”

This answer requires skill, and re-
quires prior knowledge of how much
booze will be on hand. Again, be
careful!)

Of course you can work up vari-
ations on these answers and they
can vary in complexity (depending
upon whether or not you are a
candidate). And even if you just like
to listen then it’s still a lot of fun.
But, I repeat, be careful. Next time
your party might be in the office.

 

Forum Questions Hopefuls
(Continued from page 1)

specifics. Lets not be unrealistic.
Look at the tradition of dress. Tra-
dition is only good if people live up
to it. The tradition is enforced—
but it’s tradition in word only now.
I'm not in favor of extending the
Assimilation Committee’s power.

Craven and Gray: Gentlemen, you
haven’t answered our questions.

 

 

 

Hamric and Sheridan
JEWELERS
Watch and Jewelry Repair
Hand Engraving and Class Rings
HO 3-2022

 

 

 

 

 

   

(Author of “I Was a Teen-age Dwarf,”’ “The Many
Loves of Dobie Gillis,” etc.)

    
 

A ROBE BY ANY OTHER NAME

As Commencement Day draws near, the question on everyone’s
lips is: “How did the different disciplines come to be marked by
academic robes with hoods of different colors?” Everybody —
but everybody—is asking it. I mean I haven’t been able to walk
ten feet on any campus in America without somebody grabs my
elbow and says, “How did the different disciplines come to be
marked by academic robes with hoods of different colors, hey?”

This, I must say, is not the usual question asked by collegians
who grab my elbow. Usually they say, ‘Hey, Shorty, got a
Marlboro?” And this is right and proper. After all, are they not
collegians, and, therefore, the nation’s leaders in intelligence
and discernment? And do not intelligence and discernment de-
mand the tastiest in tobacco flavor and smoking pleasure? And
does not Marlboro deliver a flavor that is uniquely mellow, a
selectrate filter that is easy drawing, a pack that is soft, a box

that is hard? You know it!

 

But I digress. Back to the colored hoods of academic robes.
A doctor of philosophy wears blue, a doctor of medicine wears
green, a master of arts wears white, a doctor of humanities wears
crimson, a master of library science wears lemon yellow. Why?
Why, for example, should a master of library science wear lemon

yellow?

Well sir, to answer this vexing question, we must go back to
March 29, 1844. On that date the first public library in the
United States was established by Ulric Sigafoos. All of Mr.
Sigafoos’s neighbors were of course wildly grateful—all, that

is, except Wrex Todhunter.

Mr. Todhunter had hated Mr. Sigafoos since 1822 when both
men had wooed the beauteous Melanie Zitt and Melanie had
chosen Mr. Sigafoos because she was mad for dancing and Mr.
Sigafoos knew all the latest steps, like the Missouri Compromise
Mambo, the Shay’s Rebellion Schottische, and the James K.
Polk Polka, while Mr. Todhunter, alas, could not dance at all
owing to a wound he had received at the Battle of New Orleans.
(He was struck by a falling praline.)

Consumed with jealousy at the success of Mr. Sigafoos’s
library, Mr. Todhunter resolved to open a competing library.
This he did, but he lured not a single patron away from Mr.
Sigafoos. ‘What has Mr. Sigafoos got that I haven’t got?” Mr.
Todhunter kept asking himself, and finally the answer came to

him: books.

So Mr. Todhunter stocked his library with lots of dandy books
and soon he was doing more business than his hated rival.
But Mr. Sigafoos struck back. To regain his clientele, he began
serving tea free of charge at his library every afternoon. There-
upon, Mr. Todhunter, not to be outdone, began serving tea
with sugar. Thereupon, Mr. Sigafoos began serving tea with
sugar and cream. Thereupon, Mr. Todhunter began serving
tea with sugar and cream and lemon.

This, of course, clinched the victory for Mr. Todhunter be-
cause he had the only lemon tree in town—in fact, in the entire
state of North Dakota—and since that day lemon yellow has of
course been the color on the academic robes of library science,

(Incidentally, the defeated Mr. Sigafoos packed up his library
and moved to California where, alas, he failed once more. There
were, to be sure, plenty of lemons to serve with his tea, but,
alas, there was no cream because the cow was not introduced

to California until 1931 by John Wayne.)

*

© 1961 Max Shulman

* *

And today Californians, happy among their Guernseys and
Holsteins, are discovering a great new cigarette—the un-

 

filtered, king-size Philip Morris Commander—and so are
Americans in all fifty states. Welcome aboard!

 

 

 
|

 

 

 

   

TUESDAY
Edition

Che Ring-tum Phi

Washington and Lee Semi-Weekly Newspaper

TUESDAY
Edition

 

Volume LXI

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA, APRIL 25, 1961

Number 51

 

McThenia Opposes Page
In Presidential Campaign

|

Uncas McThenia
Candidate for President

Qualifications

Andrew McThenia, a freshman law
student from Alderson, W. Va., grad-
uated magna cum laude from W&L
in 1958. He earned an M.A. in geolo-
gy from Columbia University be-
fore returning here to law school.

He is a member of Phi Beta Kap-
pa and the holder of a Menkemeller
scholarship in Law.

His student government experi-
ence here consists of service as vice
president of his senior class and of
Delta Tau Delta social fraternity.
He was a dormitory counselor.

He is a football letterman and a
member of Sigma.

‘| idency.

4 cus had decided not to put up
_|a candidate for president, McThenia

 

Late Friday it still appeared that
Rosie Page would be unopposed for
president of the student body this
year. Yet by Saturday afternoon
Uncas McThena, a 1958 graduate of
Washington and Lee who has re-
turned to the law school here, had
garnered the Independent Party
nomination and emerged as a strong
contender for the student body pres-

After the Independent Party cau-

decided that no candidate at W&L
should go unopposed. He talked to
some of his friends in the law school
and decided he would run against
Page.

Bob Ketcham told Bill Johnston,
the Independent Party chairman that
McThenia was going to run for
president and would like to have
the backing of the party. McThenia
was in the “Little Clique” as a mem-
ber of Delta Tau Delta here in his
undergraduate days.

Johnston called a meeting of the
Independent Party Saturday after-
noon at 1:30 to consider McThenia’s
candidacy and that of any other
candidates who wanted to run
against Page for president.

McThenia came out of the meeting
with the Independents’ nomination
for president of the student body.

Meanwhile, Grayford Gray, the
publisher of Protest, had come into
contact with McThenia.

Thus McThenia brought Gray and
his non-fraternity followers into the
Independent Party fold and picked
up the whole-hearted support of
Protest in the current campaign.

Gray, as of today, had not en-
dorsed any Independent Party can-
didates other than McThenia. How-
ever, he did throw a heavy majority
of the non-fraternity votes in last
night’s nominating convention to
Ketcham, the Independents’ choice
for chairman of the convention.

 

Psychology Department Opens
Modernized Laboratory Facilities
For Student And Researcher Use

By JIM HALEY

The new psychology laboratory
was officially opened last week by
Dr. William M. Hinton, head of the
department. Located on the third
floor of duPont Hall, the new lab
had a unique origin. This upper
floor of duPont had been left un-
finished when it was built, and was
planned for use only in the case of
overflow lectures and group meet-
ings. However, early this February
work began on the new psychology
lab. The main room, now measuring
50 feet by 30 feet, was finished, and
four individual research booths con-
structed.

Seeking more space, Dr. Jarrard
of the psychology department, came
up with a useful idea. He suggested
that the walls of the main room be
opened and auxiliary rooms added
under the eves of the building it-
self. These new rooms, although
each has a slanting ceiling, are spa-
cious and were constructed at below
average costs.

Also built were an operant room,
control room, and an animal room.
These last three rooms are the
scene of an important new phase of
research at Washington and Lee.

Early this year the Russians an-
nounced that they had discovered
that dogs, when exposed to slight
radiation, were changed with respect
to their nervous systems. This infor-
mation was completely contrary to
all previous research in the field of
radiation effects by American scient-
ists. Consequently, the National In-
stitute of Health awarded a grant to
Washington and Lee for research in
this field.

 

Glee Club Will Sing Wed.

Washington and Lee’s annual
Spring Music Concert will be given
tomorrow night by the Westhamp-
ton College Choir and the W&L
Glee Club. Both groups will present
their own repertoires for the spring
season.

The Glee Club will sing several
new numbers, including an arrange-
ment called “Tarantella,” which has
a Spanish rhythm. John Baker will
be featured in one of his solos from
the Faure “Requiem” as well as in
“Landsighting.”

\ : :
Thus, the mice can never receive

 

In the animal room, bathed in
blue-green light, are over 100 white
mice, who are used as subjects of the
research. Four of these animals are
placed each day in sound-proof
boxes in the operant room. Within
each of these boxes is a metal bar.
If one of the mice wishes to receive
a food pellet, he must push the
bar.

Two other sound-proof cages are
wired so that the. mouse must push
the bar in order not to receive an
“obnoxious shock.” In these second
cages the mouse will automatically
receive a shock if he does not push
the bar over a ten second interval.

the shock if they can realize that
they must push the bar every nine or
ten seconds.

The results of each mouse’s turn,
in the cages are recorded on a
machine, valued at over $2500. The
figures of shocks received, food pel-
lets given, and pushes of the bar
are recorded and studied.

This Saturday, the mice will be
exposed to radiation. The tests in
the cages will continue over a length
of time and the results will again be
studied. In this way, Dr. Hinton
and Dr. Jarrard will be able to meas-
ure the effects of the radiation upon
the nervous systems of mice.

This is one example of the numer-
ous and extremely important experi-
ments which can be carried on in
the new _ psychology laboratory,
which is now doubled in size as a
a result of Dr. Jarrard’s idea. Fur-
thermore, there is still room for
significant expansion, according to
Dr. Hinton.

The new lab offers Washington and
Lee students an excellent chance for
individual experimentation and re-
search, Dr. Hinton says. Many
schools in the South have equal or
better equipment available for grad-
uate students, but none for under-
graduates.

This opportunity will act as a
stimulant for work in the field of
psychology, Dr. Hinton hopes.

“This project represents a cul-
mination of a dream in that we have
quarters for better instruction in
psychology and can give our stu-

 

dents an opportunity for indepen-
dent research,” he said.

 

The schedule will be:

body offices.

 

Political Assembly

A special assembly will be held Thursday from 9:55
to 10:40 a.m. to allow members of the student body to
hear speeches from the candidates for president, vice presi-
dent, and secretary of the student body.

The special assembly was set up by the Executive
Committee of the faculty at the request of the student
body Executive Committee. The assembly, which is volun-
tary, was made possible by shortening classes Thursday.

Thursday, April 27
B— 8:25— 9:10 a.m.
D— 9:10— 9:55 a.m.

Assembly— 9:55—10:40 a.m.
F—10:40—11:25 a.m.
H—11:25—12:10 p.m.

J—12:10— 1:00 p.m.

Kent Frazier, president of the student body, noted
that this assembly breaks precedent and that he is sure
that all Washington and Lee students will take advantage
of the opportunity to hear the candidates for student

The polls will open for voting immediately after the
assembly and remain open until 6 p.m. Thursday.

 

 

 

Party Platforms

This platform represents an aggre-
gate of the opinions of the Inde-
pendent candidates. There are minor
differences as to the degrees and me-
chanics of the following considera-
tions, however, this is the common
position upon which the Independent
campaign will be conducted. Each
candidate welcomes the opportunity
to discuss his personal views on these
considerations in more detail.

HONOR SYSTEM—The Indepen-
dent Party feels that any attempt
to codify the Honor System would
be to destroy its essence, reducing
it to a set of ineffective disciplinary
rules. However, some changes are in
order concerning the trial procedure
in Honor System cases: the student
presented with the option to with-
draw from school should be pre-
sented with the facts of his case
before he exercises his option; the
accused should be convicted by a
three-fourths majority rather than
the present two-thirds; and most im-
portant, the student body should be
constantly informed and exposed to
the Honor System, its procedure,
and its ramifications.

CONSTITUTIONAL REVISION—
The Independent Party also favors
an organized program for the re-
vision and reform of the Student
Body Constitution. It is anachron-
istic in many of its sections, its last
and very minor revision being made
in 1958. Under such a program a
concentrated and representative ef-
fort could be made, the results of
which would be presented to the stu-
dent body, perhaps in the form of a
Constitutional Convention.

POLITICAL REFORM—The Inde-
pendent Party firmly opposes any
forced realignment of the party
system. This would be the same car
under a different coat of paint.
However, it is this party’s feeling
that more than simply two names
be submitted for each position on
the campus election ballot. This
would allow a qualified candidate
(perhaps from a dissatisfied house)
to run without the present neces-
sary backing of the majority of the
houses in his party. It would give
the “little man” a chance and per-
haps show the power of the “po-
litically primed” candidate in his
real light. This is not designed to
destroy the political party system
but rather to revitalize it by sub-
jecting it to healthy competition.

ASSIMILATION COMMITTEE—
The Independent Party is in favor
of restricting the Assimilation Com-
mittee and conventional dress tra-
dition to the campus of W&L per se.
This is merely recognizing the exist-
ing fact that the rules are “over-
looked” on weekends, and that the
Assimilation Committee is over-
burdened in trying to enforce the
rules in all parts of Lexington in-
cluded in the city limits.

STUDENT CONDUCT—The Inde-
pendent Party also favors the con-
sideration of a responsible student
group to handle cases of social mis-
conduct. Such cases are now being
taken care of by a faculty group
in which there is but one student.
Such a group would be in close con-

(Continued on page 4)

 

The University Party Candidates
for the “Big Three” Student Body
offices (Rosewell Page, President;
Charlie Commander, Vice-president;
Bill Outman, Secretary) do herein
present their views on certain of
the basic questions which face the
present student generation.

HONOR SYSTEM

First of all, we believe that the
Honor System as it stands now is
basically sound. We feel that strict
codification would be harmful to
the system.

If elected, we intend to see that
every defendant be informed as to
the specific nature of the evidence
and charges against him; and that he
be adequately informed of his rights,
especially with regard to the option
and to public trial procedure.

In addition we feel that the meth-
od used to indoctrinate freshmen
into the system should be changed
so as to initiate in them a positive
spirit of honor rather than a nega-
tive fear of the system.

It might also be emphasized that
the Washington and Lee Honor Sys-
tem provides for a public trial in
which the accepted legal procedure
for a trial is followed. In the pro-
cedure for public trial provisions
are made for a prosecutor, counsel
for the defense, and a jury.

CONSTITUTIONAL REFORM

With regard to constitutional re-
form and amendment, we propose
that a committee of seven men, made
up of three Executive Committee
members and other student leaders
of all parties, to be appointed by
the Executive Committee to examine
the Constitution and to propose
those changes when they deem ad-
visable. This committee should hold
public hearings at which time mem-
bers of the Student Body at large
might make proposals for further
amendments. The findings of this
committee should then be presented
to the Executive Committee for dis-
cussion, and then to the Student
Body in the form of a referendum.

The present Constitution provides
that those sections of the committee
report which are ratified by the
Executive Committee would need
only a majority Student Body vote
for passage. The remainder of the
proposals would require a two-thirds
majority for passage.

In order to create greater partici-
pation, and therefore greater inter-
est in student government, we pro-
pose that there be formed a legis-
lative “Student Council” of approxi-
mately 50 members to be elected
from the Student Body in a manner
to be decided upon by the above
mentioned committee on Constitu-
tional amendment and legislative re-
form. Since the present Class officers
have no active function, the number
of class officers should form the basic
core of membership. The establish-
ment of such a council would en-
able approximately 50 more stu-

dents to participate actively in stu-|
dent government. This council would |

have the power to initiate legisla-
tion at monthly meetings. Two-
thirds of the Executive Committee
would be sufficient to veto resolu-
tions of this council.

(Continued on page 4)

Unique Nominating Convention
Sets Pace For Election Week

Last night’s nominating conven-
tion for the “Big Seven” offices con-
firmed the Independent Party-Non-
Fraternity Union alliance which has
taken shape in the last few days,
thus assuring the University Party of
a tight race in this year’s elections.

For the first time since the present
party lines were set in 1958, the In-
dependent Party was able to elect
the convention chairman. Bob Ket-
cham, a Lambda Chi, was elected
chairman of the convention, 72-71,
over University Party chairman
John Farmer. Voting for chairman
followed strict party lines and Ket-
cham won by virtue of a 19-2 split
in his favor among Non-Fraternity
Union delegates.

‘Treks To Give
Shaw & Chekhov

Presentations

By TOM LYBASS

George Bernard Shaw skilfully
dispelled the romantic aura sur-
rounding Napoleon in his first and
longest one-act play, “The Man of
Destiny.”

The Troubadours, continuing a
tradition of presenting only the most
challenging dramas, will perform
“The Man of Destiny” along with
another one-act play, “The Marriage
Proposal,” by Anton Chekhov May
7-12. Performances begin at 7:30
p.m. at the Troubadour Theater.

“The Man of Destiny” was writ-
ten for two reasons, the most im-
portant of which was to display
Shaw’s ideas on the “glorious” na-
ture of war. Another equally im-
portant motivation behind its crea-
tion, Shaw stated himself, “This play
is hardly more than bravura piece
to display the virtuosity of the two
principal characters.”

Only four characters appear in
the play. Dominating the stage as
he dominated the world is Napoleon
Bonaparte, portrayed by Tim Mor-
ton. Matching wits with his is the
other _ principal character, the
Strange Lady, performed by Jose-
phine Unger. John Dunnell and
Andy Adelson fill the supporting
roles which were designed by Shaw to
contrast with the character of Napol-
eon.

Playing an unheroic Napoleon,
Morton is cast in a role built for
an actor. In a sense, Tim is an actor
cast in the role of a man who is
an actor himself. Aware of the
subtlety of the character he plays,
Tim is working conscientiously to
portray the man whose success Shaw
believed was the result of faith in
the “efficacy of firing cannons at
people.”

The other principal character for
whom Shaw created his play is the
Strange Lady. The Strange Lady is
extraordinarily graceful and very
feminine. A possessor of a delicately
intelligent face, she is “all keen,
refined, and original.” Because she
had these qualities, Miss Josephine
Unger was selected for this role.

Miss Unger, who is an art teacher
at Southern Seminary, finds the role
challenging because of its diversity.

 

 

Uncas McThenia had emerged
Sunday as a belated Independent
Party nominee for president of the
student body, opposing Rosie Page.
The Independent Party had declin-
ed last week to nominate a candidate
for president, saying that “We de-
cided against nominating a student
for this position in light of the quali-
fications of the University Party’s
candidate. We know of no student
who would run against Rosewell
Page.”

McThenia nominated himself last
night in a brief speech in which he
threw jibes at the University Party’s
platform for being “three days late.”
He implied that the University Party
platform was drawn at least par-
tially from his ideas. “I want to do
something,” said McThenia, “like
perking up Springs weekend, may-
be a two-day jazz weekend, with
two modern and _ two. traditional
bands, or something like that.”

Ned Olds, nominating Rosie Page
for president, outlined the Univer-
sity Party platform: a committee to
look into constitutional reform and
the possible formation of a student
legislative assembly larger than the
Executive Committee, an affirmation
of the basic soundness of the honor
system, provision for better publicity
for the activities of the EC, and
sharp revisions in the policies of the
Assimilation Committee and _ the
Dance Board.

No other candidates were brought
before the nominating convention
than those of the two major parties:

Charlie Commander opposes Ray
Robrecht for vice president of the
student body.

Bill Outman opposes Steve Suttle
for secretary o fthe student body.
Jim Applebaum and Bill Ide op-
pose each other for president of
the Fancy Dress Ball.

Jim Russ and Jack Vardaman
oppose each other for president of
Final Dances.

Rick Frisbie opposes Charlie Mc-
Cord for president of Spring Dances.

And Danny Markstein opposes
Dave Montgomery for president of
Opening Dances.

The nominating convention was
generally solemn, with only touches
of wit coming out in the nominating
speeches for president of Opening
Dances.

Roger Paine, nominating Dave
Montgomery, noted that one of his
qualifications was membership in
the “Grand Order of Bacchanal,”
a mysterious organization all of
whose records were lost in the
“Great Buffalo Fire” at Forks of
Buffalo, Va. Paine called Mont-
gomery, who resembles a cherub
at times, “our back-to-the-womb
candidate.”

Carter Fox, poked fun at the ex-
haustive lists of organizations in
which some candidates were in-
included by their nominators when
he pointed out that Danny Mark-
stein, “although he is very religious,
is not a member of the University
Christian Association.”

Don Partington, nominating Jim
Applebaum for president of Fancy
Dress, drew some chuckles when
he described Shenandoah, of which
Applebaum is office manager, as
“the campus humor magazine.”

 

 

 

Leyburn Mosby tries out the timing control board which regulates

 

“shock treatment” the psychology department’s mice get.

—Photo by Young
Page 2

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

Ohe Ring-tum Phi

Tuesday

Edition

Member of Virginia Intercollegiate Press Association

 

The Real Problem Is
RESPONSE—
Several Kinds Of It

Everyone—candidates and critics alike—seems to have
missed the point in the current furor. The problem is that the
student government at Washington and Lee is out of touch
with the needs and desires of a fast-changing student body.
Blame it on “apathy,” blame it on the system, throw the blame
anywhere you want—but remember that the fault falls nearly
equally on every member of the student body.

The present Executive Committee, the Dance Board, the
Interfraternity Council, the Assimilation Committee, and all
other holders of student body offices are at fault because they
have not had the courage, and the time, to face squarely and
bring to a decision the pressing questions they have been pre-

sented with.

Every student in the University is at fault because he has
not taken enough interest in these important questions to con-
sider what he wants and then demand a decision.

The Ring-tum Phi has not given thorough coverage to the
meetings which have discussed important questions. Our
columnists and editorials have aired many of them rather well,
but nowhere has either edition made it clear how something

can be done about them.

This lack of communication between W&L students and
their leaders was never more apparent than at last Wednesday’s
ill-fated Forum. To this observer it seemed that the nebulous
and inarticulate answers of the candidates were a direct result
of the nebulous and inarticulate questions posed them by the
panel. Yet the Friday edition was amazingly articulate in its
condemnation of the whole group.

Gentlemen, let’s not expect too much of our student lead-
ers. If we can’t decide what we want, we can’t expect our leaders

to decide for us.

We firmly believe that the only modifications necessary in
the student body constitution are ones which will provide for
regular presentation of all important issues to a larger segment
of the student body for review and guidance. At present those

means do not exist.

Thus

the issue which should dominate this election is

Responsiveness. At present we have a severe breakdown
in communications between the student government and the
student body as a whole. Responsiveness entails a responsibility
on the part of the student government to formulate plans for
the future AND a responsibility on the part of every student
to inform his leaders of what he wants done.

The ONLY revision of the student body constitution
which are in order at this time are one designed to remedy this
general lack of communication between student officers and
the student body as a whole. Any attempt to deal with more
specific problems will merely confuse the issue further.

Next. week, after the dust has settled from the “Big Seven”
elections, and everyone has partially regained their senses, the
Ring-tum Phi will present a summary of the most pressing issues
with which the new officers will have to deal.

William L. Roberts, Jr.

 

Che Ring-tum Phi
Tuesday Edition

The Ring-tum Phi is published Tues-
day and Friday ons the college year.
It is printed by the Journalism Labor-
sory Press, ashington and Lee Uni-
versity. The mailing address is Box
899. Lexington, Va.

Entered as second class matter Sep-
tember 20, 1946 at the Post Office, Lex-
ington, Va., under the act of March
3. 1878.

National Advertising Representative:
The National Advertisers Service, Inc.,
420 Madison Ave., New York, N.Y.

ae Rosewell Page, III
Business Managet.............. Huntley Biggs

Editorial Board

Managing Editor...................Bill Roberts
Assistant Managing Editor...

News Editor... .Bob Bridewell
BBOPUR TIRE assteiscccsserns <1 Steve Guild

 

Paul’s Proposals For Possible E

By JOHN PAUL

The novel feature of the student
body elections this year is the pres-
ence of real issues and the demand
on the part of many that the can-
didates reveal their stands upon
these issues. Yet, at the same time,
the student body, though no longer
indifferent, is not adequately aware
of the present situation to evaluate
the new proposals. There is a de-
sire for change and improvement.
Despite this ferment there have been
discouragingly few concrete, specific,
well-thought-out formulations of-
fered.

I should hope that no student
would desire to strike at the heart
of the honor system. That the
system is imperfect and vulner-
able can not be denied but the
spirit behind the system must en-
dure. It is the spirit of honor which
is distinctive to our campus and
it must be reverently maintained.

At the same time we must be

 

 

Notices

There will be a meeting of the
Campus Club at 7 p.m. Tuesday,
May 2, in the Student Union to
elect officers for the coming school
year. All members are requested
to be present.

* ae *

Elections for the Editor and
Business Manager of the Ring-
Phi and The Southern Collegian
will be held Monday, May 1 in
the Publications Room of the Stu-
dent Union. Previous experience
for any of these positions is not
required, and all students are in-
vited to participate.

aware that the constitution, the
written formulation of the honor
system in the handbook, and the
honor trial procedures may be im-
perfect; that they were, as a matter
of fact, written by students such
as ourselves; that we can with ini-
tiative and intelligence improve upon
them. For this purpose I recommend
that the Executive Committee of
next year appoint a committee of
five outstanding students, two of
whom have had prior E.C. exper-
ience, to hold open meetings to dis-
cuss with all interested students any
changes and improvements in the
overall system. The reports of this
committee should be made public
and proper action taken upon
them.

The student government of next
year should take pains to increase
the understanding and awareness of
the student body as to its work-
ings. The minutes of legislative and
executive meetings of the EC should

The Parable
Of The
Indian Agent

By STEVE HENRY

In case you haven't noticed, the
Washington and Lee Un-Apathetic
Activities Committee is up in arms
again, this time against the Big
Three candidates of both parties
for not presenting, of all things,
adequate platforms.

For some reason, this upheaval
among a minority of the student
body brought to our minds a few
memories of years-past high school
days when every election was either
won or lost on platforms—platforms
which undoubtedly would bring a
gleam to the eyes of all the angry
young men around here who are
currently pacing the campus walks
mumbling apathy, lack of initiative,
and, well, you know the rest.

We remember one _ particularly
exciting campaign for student body
president during which we heard
perhaps the greatest political speech
ever made.

It happened like this:

There were four students in the
race, at least three of whom were
anxious to add yet another honor
to their brimful high school records.
On the day before the election,
each candidate was required to state
his platform before an assembly of
the student body and faculty, this
obviously being the high point of the
entire campaign.

Came the day, and in filed the stu-
dent body to listen to its leaders
bid for each and every vote. After a
quick pledge of allegiance to the
flag, the time was nigh for politi-
cal history to be made.

Candidate one mounted the speak-
er’s stand and promised the follow-
ing: new water fountains, longer
lunch hours and more assemblies.
Thunderous applause greeted his
speech!

Candidate two promised not only
the promises of candidate one; he
added better meals, more study halls,
and an easier grading system. Even
greater applause!

Candidate three promised all that
the first two men had called for.
In addition, he swore that he would
provide new uniforms for all ath-
letic teams, abolition of final exams,
and authorized drinking at football
games. The auditorium shook with
applause. Surely this was the world’s
greatest platform—a sure-fire de-
terrent to student body apathy.

After the applause had died to a
ripple, the fourth candidate took the
stand, and here it was that we were
privileged to hear an address second
only to the one made at Gettysburg.

Here is the text of the address,
given to the best of our ability with
full realization that we can never
do justice to the words of the origi-
nal speaker.

“Mr. Principal, honored faculty,
and fellow students. My opponents
remind me of a story I once heard
about an Indian agent.

“This particular Indian agent used
to go out to the reservation and
call an assembly of the entire tribe.
Then he would begin making prom-
ises. Oh, he promised the Indians
everything—better treaties, more
land, more food, everything.

“All during his speech, the In-
dians would stand up and yell
‘Oompah’ at the top of their voices.
Every time the agent would make
a promise, the tribe would shout,
‘Oompah, Oompah.’ This made the
agent feel very good because he
was sure he had impressed the In-
dians with his talk.

“That afternoon, the agent was in-
specting the tribe’s buffalo herd
with an Indian guide. The two men
were walking along through the

 

 

(Continued on page 4)

be published. The freshmen should
be made well aware of the honor
system, the procedure, and the role
of honor in the Washington and Lee
community.

One final word as to the honor
system. Granted that honor is a
vague term, we must not succumb
to the temptation to try to formu-
late what falls within its scope
other than in general terms. The
honor system must not be codified
for if it is, it will lose much of its
value. Furthermore, honor must not
be overextended to cover activities
which in themselves are beyond the
proper range of honor.

Dance Set Problems

The EC of the coming year should
also make an effort to solve the
problem of school dances. These
dances should be designed to give
the student something in return for
his investment in his dance plan.
It would seem that students no
longer appreciate the formal dance

 

 

IP ‘Big Three’ Shows Bid For Law School

By HUGO HUGENBOOM

“We decided against nominating
a student for this position (presi-
dent) in light of qualifications of
the University Party’s candidate.”

Following this statement, the Inde-
pendent Party announced, through
Protest, the candidacy of a law stu-
dent for the office of president of
the student body. This results in
two of the top three nominations
in the Independent Party slate going
to law students. Although this is
extremely flattering to the law
school, and the men nominated are
fine men, there are some small
doubts. How was it that the Inde-
pendent Party could only find one
man qualified for the big three in
the undergraduate school and had to
go to the law school for the other
two?

There is a strong liklihood that
some may think that the
law students were nominated
in the hope of gaining one hun-
dred “sure” votes, and suspect
the Independent party of acting
from a purely power-grabbing
motive. In order to prevent this,
some sort of clarifying statements

 

ought to be made.

The wisdom of overloading a slate
with law students is also open to
question, since the law school com-
prises only one-tenth of the stu-
dent body in number and far less
than that in actual campus-wide ac-
tivity (which is as it should be).
Since the Executive Committee is
concerned with more than just hon-
or system offenses (and there are
three law school E.C. representatives
in any case), as for instance, legisla-
tion, fund allotment, etc., etc., law
school representation in the top
three offices of the University
should not be overwhelming.

Were the situation desperate, of
course, this preponderance of law-
yers would be justified. However,
the qualifications of the University
Party candidate for president are
too great to merit any “emergen-
cy” action.

* * *

The platform announced in Pro-
test seems to suffer from the same
hasty preparation as the nomination
itself: only one of the proposals
sandwiched between a good deal of

 

Webster Unabridged

 

Student Apathy Crushed

By ED WEBSTER

W&L students have gradually
lulled themselves into believing they
are apathetic.

Apathy as we know it, however,
is often nothing but an advanced
case of laziness. We just don’t care
to bother with time-consuming
things like thinking and acting.

Apathy is reinforced by a belief
that we can’t do anything anymore.
We fear that people won’t listen to
us, and that we will only make fools
of ourselves by presenting our ideas
to them.

This year, for the first time in
many years, apathy in campus
elections is being replaced by at-
tention to platforms and issues.
But the candidates might never
have taken a stand if a few
aroused students — probably less
than 25— had not refused to let
them ignore the numerous issues
of student government.

Futhermore, the university as-
sembly this week, at which the
six major candidates will present
their platforms, is largely the result
of a few seniors’ conviction that an
election without issues is a mockery.

The person responsible for much
of this new spirit, Grayfred Gray, is
still little known and largely mis-
understood by most of the campus.
However, many of the changes in
the honor system and the constitu-
tion, which are bound to come either
this year or next, will be due largely
to his prodding.

Many people are receiving a
startling revelation: they can con-
quer apathy merely by refusing
to believe in it. They must believe,
instead, in a cause, and must de-
vote themselves to that cause
through action.

For instance, when the SWMSFC
musical showed a deficit, most people
just shook their heads sadly. Gray,
however, sat at a desk on the colon-
nade for two mornings, collecting
money for War Memorial Scholar-
ships in a big jar. He got $54.36,
which is $54.36 more than anyone
else had thought possible.

The potentialities of students de-
voted to action, rather than to
apathy, were demonstrated by David
Riesman in the April Atlantic.
Changes in student government, in
cut system, or in the curriculum
could be urged, and probably achiev-

with the large band. The number
of these dances should be reduced
and jazz concerts, which the student
does enjoy, should be increased pro-
portionately.

Dances should be held in the
dining hall in order to afford a
more pleasant atmosphere. Finally,
of course, students should be al-
lowed to drink at dances. The re-
striction upon drinking at dances
has the implication that a W&L
student cannot drink moderately
and behave properly in public. I
feel that student responsibility and
maturity are great enough to
maintain gentlemanly conduct at
such an affair.

Further, I feel that the assimilation
committee powers and jurisdiction
should be revised. Conventional
dress should be required of stu-
dents, other than freshmen, only on
the campus. Freshmen should be re-
quired to wear conventional dress

 

 

ed, by a few students who are dis-
satisfied with the old methods. Ries-
man’s methods are extreme, but his
basic idea is worth listening to.

Campus conservatives shudder
when they hear words like “revi-
sion,” “change,” and “do something.”
They distrust people who are unwill-
ing to “go through channels.” Not
long ago, however, they were able to
hear Barry Goldwater speak here
largely because a few students and
professors were dedicated to the
idea that Goldwater should speak
here.

(Speaking of conservatives, why
are they so silent now at W&L?
We thought they always preached
things like “decentralized govern-
ment” and “individual rights.”
Are not these central issues in the
present controversy over student
government? Can campus conser-
vatives defend the student Execu-
tive Committee on the same
grounds that they condemn the
Supreme Court, the ICC, and the
FTC?)

This campus is far from perfect.
It will be made better only if peo-
ple think about the issues, formu-
late their beliefs, and act in ac-
cordance with these beliefs.

Such an approach does not require
mass support; it can be achieved by
a handful of dedicated individuals.
One person, in fact, might change
the whole nature of the campus.

 

idle analogies of organisms and
student body constitutions was
within the purview of the Execu-
tive Committee at all, that is the
one suggesting that more than two
candidates be permitted to run for
any single office. And that proposal
didn’t go into the full ramifications
of the matter: run-off elections,
“gag” candidates and other prob-
lems which would accompany this
“reform.”

The proposal that would establish
a student committee to deal with
student offenders is entirely under
faculty control and could only be
approved by them (and in light of
their recent actions has the appear-
ance of pie in the sky.) The other
ideas, formation of political societies,
have merit but do not add to a
solid political platform. They sound
good but like mother and apple pie;
everyone’s for them, but let’s get
on to other things.

No one can or should quarrel with
Uneas’ decision to run. We can only
wish that the whole matter had
been judiciously considered and ex-
plained, rather than having been
thrust upon us in what appears to
be the guise of a naked political
maneuver.

Debaters Attend
New York Meet

W&L sent four debate teams to
compete with nine other colleges
and universities at the Randolph-
Macon Novice Tournament held at
Ashland, Va., on Saturday. Bill Noell
and Fred Cooper upholding the Neg-
ative of the question: Resolved That
the U.S. Should Adopt a Program of
Compulsory Health for All Its Citi-
zens, was the only Negative team to
go undefeated, winning all four of
its debates. Noell further finished in
a tie for third place out of a field of
44 debaters. For Cooper this was his
first college debate. Others debating
for W&L were Bob Doenges, Dick
Kelley, Hunter Manson, Bill Tedards,
Tom Lybass, and Mike Levin. Senior
debaters Otis Hess and Pete Straub
went along to serve as judges.

This weekend W&L will send its
first string to New York City to
compete with Middle Atlantic and
Ivy League schools at N.Y.U. Bill
Buice and Bill Boardman will de-
bate the affirmative of the above
question, while Al Eckes will join
with Noell on the negative. The fol-
lowing weekend the season will end
at Columbia, S. C., at the Atlantic
Coast Conference Championship
Tournament. W&L’s affirmative team
will reman the same, but Jay Clark
and Richard McEnally will debate
the Negative. Buice, Board, Eckes,
Noell, Clark, and McEnally have all
received awards of excellence at var-
ious tournaments this year.

 

 

 

 

 
 
 
 
 

 

PEANUTS

 

I DO,TOO... I WORRY ABOUT
MY BEING ABLE TO FIT INTO
THE RESPONSIBILITIES OF ADULT
LIFE AND WOMANHOOD...

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

throughout the town as all students
are required to do at present.

Academic Interest Needed

Finally, the student government
should take a more active interest
in promoting the academic status
of the University. Again perhaps the
EC should appoint a committee to
investigate the possibilities in this
field. Or perhaps the committee
should be a joint faculty and stu-
dent undertaking. The University
should do away with forced atten-
dance at all but University assem-
blies. The present practice of some
professors padding the turn out for
speakers sponsored by their depart-
ment wilts the intellectual interest of
the coerced student and is in itself
an insult to the speaker. Further,
steps should be taken to do away
with the use of cold quizzes by some
of more sluggish professors. The cold
quiz is harmful to all students in
that it destroys a zeal for true

 

 

 

 

lection Platform

learning. It is especially harmful
to the non-fraternity man to whom
the cold quiz files are not available.

Ultimately, the student body
should take concrete steps in do-
ing away with the archaic cut
system. To do away with the sys-
tem would improve the academic
community in that professors
would be forced to improve upon
their lectures to insure attendance
and the interested and industrious
scholar would be rewarded where-
as the dullards would soon be
culled out by their own non-par-
ticipation.

Taken collectively these sugges-
tions may seem rash; taken individ-
ually I feel they are not. It is my
belief that these proposals, if acted
upon, will benefit the school. We
must elect leaders with intelligence,
energy, dedication, and vision to
to see these proposals given ade-
quate treatment.

Sathana SE 255i

 

————
THE RING-TUM PHI

Page 3

 

‘Carolina Tour’ Scoreboard
WE&L 9, 3; NC 2; Duke 6

Washington and Lee’s lacrosse
team returned home from. their
“Carolina tour” Sunday. The Gen-
erals had registered a 9-2 victory
over the University of North Caro-
lina on Friday, while bowing to
Duke’s Blue Devils by a 6-3 score
on Saturday. Coach Bob McHenry
spoke with mixed emotions about
his team’s play this past weekend.
He seemed delighted with the fine
showing some _ individuals have
made, but for the most part was
critical of the lack of team hustle
and _ spirit.

The Generals did extremely well
in the game with the Tar Heels,
scoring four goals in the first half
to one for the opposition, and adding
five more in the second portion of
the game. Coach McHenry was
pleased with the performance of
most of the ballplayers in this game,
especially since the team was only
carrying eighteen men. Jimmy Pow-
ers was the big man for the Gen-
erals in this contest, scoring four
goals. John McDaniel and Hunter
Tracht each scored two, and Bill
Spencer-Strong added one more.
Herb Tinley, starting goalie for
Washington and Lee, had only five
saves, although he only played in
the first half. Noonan had no saves
and “Red” Rankin had five in
the second half. Last year the Gen-
erals battered North Carolina by a

 

11-5 score, and Friday’s game was
certainly a credit to the team.

McHenry was much less satisfied
with the Saturday performance
against Duke. Against a team con-
sisting of relatively the same calibre
boys the Generals beat last year
13-3, McHenry was obviously dis-
appointed with the loss. The Gen-
erals were able to muster only three
goals in the entire game. The Blue
Devils led 2-1 at halftime. Hunter
Tracht, Jimmy Powers, and Charles
Gummey each scored one _ goal.
However, the entire offense took
only 13 shots in the first half and
a total of thirty for the game. Coach
McHenry felt that the loss could
be attributed for the most part to
poor ball control, poor clearing, poor
offense, and poor riding.

On the agenda for this coming
weekend will be Johns Hopkins in
a game which will start here at 2:30
p.m. Saturday. Hopkins is current-
ly the nation’s number one team,
and is expected to wrap-up the na-
tional title in the next few weeks.
Hopkins will play Loyola tomorrow,
a team which lost to W&L by a
14-6 score. Few definite plans have
been made for the Generals’ strategy
in the contest. Coach Bob hopes to
gain more ball control in order to
cut the Hopkins’ scoring punch.

(Continued on page 4)

 

Frosh Take 6th At ‘Pilot’ Relays

Due to a cancellation in last Fri-
day’s freshman meet, track activity
was held to a minimum for the
Generals last week. The only varsity
activity was the victory over the
neighboring Hampden-Sydney team,
and the only Brigadier action was at
the annual Freshman Relay in Nor-
folk sponsored by the Norfolk Vir-
ginian Pilot newspaper. Washington
and Lee only had one team entered
in this relay carnival, and it came
home with a disappointing 6th place.
W&L was nosed out by the VMI con-
tingent by a stride. The four fresh-

men that ran were Ed Croft, John |

Pearson, Fox Urquhart, and Skip Es-
sex. Essex had an outstanding time of

 

50.9 sec. for his leg of the race. The
team’s time was 3:34.

In addition to today’s meet with
Lynchburg, the Generals will travel
to Philadelphia Friday for Satur-
day’s annual Penn Relays. Instead
of W&L competing against some of
the big time track schools, the teams
will be grouped according to their
ability and accomplishments thus
far this season. With such an ar-
rangement, the Generals can expect
to have a real chance to come home
with some prizes.

On Friday afternoon at 3:45, the
freshmen team will meet with the
Greenbrier Military squad on Wilson
Field.

 

 

 

George Cruger heaves the shot put in practice.

 

 

SSOSSSHSSSHESSSHOGSSHSSSSSHSSSSSSSSOSSSSSSSSSSEESAE0C86

Ted’s Steak House

Finest Foods
Choice Meats

w
SUNDAY DINNERS

Route 60 Buena Vista

Sececetsseeeoeeeeoeeeee@

 

Te obe obo oho oe ole oe ofe oe ae ole aL Te ode oe ofe ofo of os fe oe fee ofe afe ofeahe feof ae of afe oe oe ofeae oe fee ae fo ofe ae oe oe oho oe afer

Herero oho ofo oe foo oe oho rfe fe fe oe ole oho ofe oe oho fe fe fo fe fe fo oe fone nfo fe fone alongs

“To get the best get Sealtest”

over twenty different products in addition to
delicious Sealtest ice cream

Block and Crushed Ice

Your favorite mixes—Ice Cold

*
Maple-Rock Distributors, Inc.

Phone HO 3-2168

We Feature

SEALTEST

Dairy Products

PEELE EEE EEE EEE PEEP EE hy

fo ofe ode eke oho oe ofe abe oe ode of fe fe ofe ake ofr oke fe abe feof oe ake oe oleae of oleae feof ole oe oe ofe of oe oe oe obs oho abe ade obo nea obs fea

| won with a double in the thirteenth

i \ j r
' 3
% + j

 

Netmen S

 

Bill Smith reaches up for a high one.

 

Baseball Team Improves
Last Year’s Poor Showing

By HARRY MEEM

The W&L baseball team seems to
have taken on new life this year,
rebounding off last year’s 3-16 rec-
ord. Part of the credit must go to
the hitters who are providing more
punch at the plate, but a good deal
must also go to the pitchers.

Carpenter’s Record

Senior Roy Carpenter leads the
mound staff with a record of two
wins against two losses. In five ap-
pearances, Carpenter has pitched
twenty-three innings, both in start-
ing roles and in relief. He’s given up
nineteen hits, including two doubles,
one triple, and two homers. He’s |
walked seven, struck out nineteen,
and carries an earned-run average
of 3.91. His longest stint to date was
eight innings pitched in relief against
William and Mary, a game which he

inning.

Junior Phil Sharp is the other
mainstay of the staff. Sharp, who
beat Harvard and lost to Bridge-
water, carries an ERA of 1.78, off
five earned runs given up in twenty-
six and a third innings pitched.
In the four games he’s appeared in, |
Sharp has given up twenty-six hits,
walked nine, and struck out twenty-
one.

The mound corps has received an
added boost from freshman right-

 

hander Penn Way, who looked good
in relief of Sharp in the Generals’
contest with Norfolk William and
Mary. Way pitched three and a
third innings in this one, and, though
he needed help from Carpenter in
the ninth, got credit for the win. He
also looked good against Bridge-
water, once again in relief of Sharp.

Frosh Gamber

The other loss chalked up against
the Generals was hung on fresh-
man southpaw Brice Gamber by the
Mountaineers of West Virginia. In
this contest, a seven inning affair,
Gamber gave up three runs while

' walking four and striking out four.

He looked good in defeat, and should

| give the staff an added boost as

the season goes on.

 

 

Green Valley Motel

One Mile North on
U. S. Highway No. 11

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA
HO 3-2195

 

 

 

 

Cordially invites you to make this

The Southern Inn

Here you get the best food for the most reasonable prices

Our Specialties:

Steaks, Chicken, Country Ham, and thie best sandwiches
in town

Meet your friends here

your headquarters for good food

 

 

 

College Outlines
Hymarx Outlines
Made Simple Series

—~SeveerveweeeeeeeeevevevrwvewVwTwe

try our

The Book Shop

W. Washington Street

—_r eer

By JIM SYLVESTER

Washington and Lee’s tennis team
came off the weekend road trip with
a 1-1 record. On Friday, Randolph-
Macon slipped by the netmen 5-4,
and Saturday saw the Generals
bounce back to a 7-2 victory at
Richmond.

The absence of third man Clark
Valentiner from the Generals’ line-
up hurt their cause considerably
and may well have cost them their
loss. After splitting the singles 3-3
the Generals forged ahead with
Captain McWilliams and John Bak-
er turning in their best performance
of the year. They were matched
against one of the top doubles teams
in Virginia in Cotton Cobb and
Warren Denby.

Split sets came up again in the
number 2 and 3 doubles and en-
thusiasm was dampened and temp-
ers shortened by a rain storm that
all but flooded the courts. Ran-
dolph-Macon swam to victory in
the last sets of both doubles
matches.

Mell, Mills, Smith and Wilbourne
combined their efforts to lose 6-4
and 12-10.

John Baker played his best singles

core 1-1 In Weekend Trip

match of the year defeating Cotton
| Cobb, an old high school rival. The
| Macon stalwart was trounced 6-2,
6-3.

McWilliams turned in an outstand-
ing performance despite a bruised
cartilage.

The Generals showed their true
form on Saturday when they
slaughtered the University of
Richmond, 7-2. McWilliams set
an example for his cohorts by win-
ning despite his injury. Mell and
Baker also glided to easy victories.

This afternoon the Generals take
the court against William and Mary
which was expected to be the tough-
est match this year. Next Friday
W&L meets a real “watch-out” team.
Roanoke, though considered one of
the easier teams on the schedule in
the past, has gained some top play-
ers and could easily upset the top-
seeded Generals.

 

Notice

There will be an intrasquad soc-
cer game this Friday afternoon
on the soccer field. All students
are invited to attend.

 

 

 

 

Barrons Series
Data Guides
Vocabulary Cards

 

 

 

  

 

STUDENTS ACCOUNTS INVITED HERE
Member F. D. 1. C.

 

 

 

 

 

(Author of “I Was a Teen-age Dwarf,” “The Many
Loves of Dobie Gillis,” etc.)

 

A ROBE BY ANY OTHER NAME

As Commencement Day draws near, the question on everyone’s
lips is: “How did the different disciplines come to be marked by
academic robes with hoods of different colors?” Everybody —
but everybody—is asking it. I mean I haven’t been able to walk
ten feet on any campus in America without somebody grabs my
elbow and says, “How did the different disciplines come to be
marked by academic robes with hoods of different colors, hey?”

This, I must say, is not the usual question asked by collegians
who grab my elbow. Usually they say, “Hey, Shorty, got a
Marlboro?” And this is right and proper. After all, are they not
collegians, and, therefore, the nation’s leaders in intelligence
and discernment? And do not intelligence and discernment de-
mand the tastiest in tobacco flavor and smoking pleasure? And
does not Marlboro deliver a flavor that is uniquely mellow, a
selectrate filter that is easy drawing, a pack that is soft, a box
that is hard? You know it!

  

Usados Gate! terval Ge?”

But I digress. Back to the colored hoods of academic robes.
A doctor of philosophy wears blue, a doctor of medicine wears
green, a master of arts wears white, a doctor of humanities wears
crimson, a master of library science wears lemon yellow. Why?
Why, for example, should a master of library science wear lemon
yellow?

Well sir, to answer this vexing question, we must go back to
March 29, 1844. On that date the first public library in the
United States was established by Ulric Sigafoos. All of Mr.
Sigafoos’s neighbors were of course wildly grateful—all, that
is, except Wrex Todhunter.

Mr. Todhunter had hated Mr. Sigafoos since 1822 when both
men had wooed the beauteous Melanie Zitt and Melanie had
chosen Mr. Sigafoos because she was mad for dancing and Mr.
Sigafoos knew all the latest steps, like the Missouri Compromise
Mambo, the Shay’s Rebellion Schottische, and the James K.
Polk Polka, while Mr. Todhunter, alas, could not dance at all
owing to a wound he had received at the Battle of New Orleans,
(He was struck by a falling praline.)

Consumed with jealousy at the success of Mr. Sigafoos’s
library, Mr. Todhunter resolved to open a competing library.
This he did, but he lured not a single patron away from Mr.
Sigafoos. “What has Mr. Sigafoos got that I haven’t got?” Mr.
Todhunter kept asking himself, and finally the answer came to
him: books.

So Mr. Todhunter stocked his library with lots of dandy books
and soon he was doing more business than his hated rival.
But Mr. Sigafoos struck back. To regain his clientele, he began
serving tea free of charge at his library every afternoon. There-
upon, Mr. Todhunter, not to be outdone, began serving tea
with sugar. Thereupon, Mr. Sigafoos began serving tea with
sugar and cream. Thereupon, Mr. Todhunter began serving
tea with sugar and cream and lemon.

This, of course, clinched the victory for Mr. Todhunter be-
cause he had the only lemon tree in town—in fact, in the entire
state of North Dakota—and since that day lemon yellow has of
course been the color on the academic robes of library science,

(Incidentally, the defeated Mr. Sigafoos packed up his library
and moved to California where, alas, he failed once more. There
were, to be sure, plenty of lemons to serve with his tea, but,
alas, there was no cream because the cow was not introduced
to California until 1931 by John Wayne.) © 1961 Max Shulman

* * *

And today Californians, happy among their Guernseys and
Holsteins, are discovering a great new cigarette—the un-
filtered, king-size Philip Morris Commander—and so are
Americans in all fifty states. Welcome aboard!
Page 4

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

Candidates’ Letters

Editor Tuesday Edition
Ring-tum Phi
Dear Sir:

I would like to state my reasons for
running for President of the Student
Body and call the attention of your
readers to the platform offered by the
Independent Party, wherein are con-
tained the major issues upon which I
stand. I welcome the opportunity to
expound on these proposals through-
out the week.

I have become an active candidate
for the Presidency for the reason that
I believe I have a tangible and worth-
while program to present to this Uni-
versity. At the risk of seeming boast-
ful, I would like to state that I believe
my qualifications are indicative of my
ability to assume the position and to
fulfill its duties in a competent man-
ner. I do not run in answer to any
overwhelming call from the people,
nor do I run as a sacrificial lamb. I
run to win and with the hope of serv-
ing this school to the utmost of my
capability if chosen by my fellow stu-
dents.

It is my feeling that there is room
for a great deal of change in our com-
munity. The changes I would pro-
pose are not revolutionary but they
are, I believe, desirable.

There are certain areas in which
I perhaps differ from my running
mates. I would propose that the Uni-
versity reexamine its policy concern-
ing absense regulations and the policy
of requiring captive audiences at as-
semblies. It is believed that these prac-
tices as they now exist tend to stifle
true intellectual curiosity. There are
other areas in which my campaign will
be perhaps more personal than the
general party platform.

I wish to express my appreciation
to the Independent Party for endors-
ing my candidacy. I am indeed proud
to run on the same slate with the oth-
er Independent Party men.

Sincerely,
ANDREW W. McTHENIA, Jr.
+ * +

To the Student Body:

I offer myself as a candidate for
the presidency of the Student Body,
because I believe that the proposals
contained in the platform of the Uni-
versity Party are in the best interests
of the student body and the student
government of Washington and Lee
and because I believe that I am both
qualified and capable to see that these
proposals are carried out.

I intend to discuss my stand on the
various issues of this campaign before
the voluntary assembly to be held
in Doremus Gymnasium on Thurs-
day and in the various dormitories and
fraternity houses between now and
that time.

I solicit the vote of the entire stu-
dent body regardless of political af-
filiation. I ask only that the voters
consider carefully the issues at stake.
I feel that the planks of our platform
speak for themselves.

ROSIE PAGE

ok * *

To the Student Body:

In this newspaper you find the plat-
form of the two opposing parties. They
are quite similar. There are definite
proposals, ideas and suggestions which
both parties agree on. This is largely
due to the fact that there was no talk
of platforms, etc., as such until about
a week ago. There has not been time
for lengthy and deep consideration of
all possible issues or proposals. The
proposals made by both parties are a
good step in the right direction. How-

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Abed bee

White’s Music
Store

(Opposite State Theater)
ik
Phonographs—Hi-Fi
Expert Repair Service
ik

5 W. Nelson St.
HO 3.3522

Lexington, Va.

SR ee bebe heehee eee eee fede eee oleh

Pebble bbe

+

ture, there can be no real distinction
between candidates based on party
platforms. Thus, you the student body,
are faced with the task of selecting
the most qualified men to carry out
these proposals as well as to sit on
cases involving the Honor System.

I am running for vice-president of
the student body because I feel I am
qualified to sit on the E.C. and that
I could capably fulfill the duties of
the president in his absence. I have
served as president of my fraternity,
head dorm counselor for two years,
and am currently on the E.C. I feel
that all three of these positions indi-
cate my willingness and ability to as-
sume positions of responsibility. Thus
I feel that I am more qualified than
my opponent. I subscribe to the basic
ideas laid down in the Independent
Party platform and will elaborate on
several of these ideas at the assembly
on Thursday. I hope all of you will be
there.

Sincerely,

RAY ROBRECHT

* * *

To the Student Body:

As a candidate for the office of
vice-president of the W&L student
body, I have entered this race to
win so that the attitudes of the entire
student body will be known and ad-
hered to by the E.C. In conjunction
with my University Party running
mates for the offices of the student
body, I have attempted to include
my views in the platform printed in
this paper. This platform is by no
means perfect or complete. There are
many other valid proposals and
changes to come. I feel that this is
a substantial start, but I also encour-
age suggestions which any person
might make.

It is my feeling that our attitude to
lead the student body in reorgani-
zation and revision of the student goal
is very sincere. We feel capable of
performing this leadership, and we
hope that we will have that oppor-
tunity.

CHARLIE COMMANDER

* * *

To the Student Body:

The current interest which has de-
veloped concerning the coming Stu-
dent Body elections represents what
I believe to be one of the healthiest
attitudes that we have been subject
to as members of W&L.

In support of this current interest,
I feel that the proposals that we as
University Party candidates have sub-
mitted in today’s edition of the Ring-
tum Phi offer for the Student Body
the soundness in planning and the
firmness of decision that will per-
petuate this interest in the coming
year.

It is my feeling that the current
student generation desires to be rep-
resented by candidates who have
more to offer than the interest which
all the candidates naturally possess.
Experience has better enabled
the University Party candidates to
meet next year’s problms; to initiate
change in those specific areas need-
ing immediate attention, and _ to
strengthen those principles which the
Student Body feels to be essential to
Washington and Lee.

BILL OUTMAN

Candidate for Secretary of the
Student Body

* * *
Editor, Tuesday Edition
Ring-tum Phi
Dear Sir:
In response to the comments and re-

ever, since they are so similar in na-

forum held last Wednesday evening,
I should like to present some specific
points and thoughts pertaining to the
major issues at the meeting. In doing
so, I shall be side-stepping some of
the important and very real matters
which, I am sure, are uppermost in
the minds of the student body at
W&L and which are most relevant to
the functioning of the executive com-
mittee i.e, the integration of W&L
and the instatement of an ideal Athen-
ian democracy on campus.

I am concerned, however, as to the

extent with which the average W&L
student is acquainted with his gov-
ernment and its institutions. To cate-
gorize briefly, my major support and
dissent fall within sections of the
Honor System and the executive com-
mittee.
I support the Honor System per se
as it now stands, for as I shall ex-
plain in a moment, any action may be
appealed or rescinded without much
effort by a small minority. However,
my specific grievance lies in one phase
of the trial procedure. I feel that it
is only fair that the accused should
be presented with the charges against
him before the trial. I do not favor
the idea that the accused should be
convicted by a unanimous vote of the
Executive Committee. Perhaps a
change from a two-thirds to a three-
fourth majority for conviction would
be wise. This would provide for two
arguments: first, the question of the
guilt of the accused would be negli-
ble—much more so than in the U.S.
Supreme Court which requires a sim-
ple majority for its decisions— and
second, it would provide for those
E.C. members who dissent merely be-
cause they have in their personalities
the hesitation to enforce such a pen-
alty in the light of the effect that it
would have on the accused and on his
life afterward. The latter may not feel
that the dishonorable action merits the
consequences. There are, in my opin-
ion, no degrees of honor in our sys-
tem. To admit such would invite cha-
os. Where would one draw the line
as to the degree of honor which was
abused? Again, as I said in the forum,
I feel that many anticipated honor vio-
lations can be dispensed with before
they arise simply by asking a professor
or an E.C. member. A step forward
in this direction was taken by the
E.C. when it published its views on
the mail-order encyclopedia question
recently.

The cry that the executive commit-
tee is invested with an excess of pow-
er has rung out and will undoubtedly
be heard again before the week is
done. Here I fail to take the dis-
senters’ stand because the students of
W&L are the holders of one of the
most powerful and most representative
vetoes in existence. This veto can be
brought about by fifty signatures from
the student body. Such a petition can
result in the rescinding of ANY ac-
tion taken by the E.C. Again, here
is the need for an informed student
body. If the executive committee
would take the initiative to provide a
fuller understanding of the student
government at W&L, many problems
would disappear in the light of this
knowledge of affairs and administra-
tion. Apathy would yield to action.

These are a few of the major prob-
lems as I see them and some proposed
solutions. There will be many more in
the coming year. The men elected
must not only be capable, but must
be willing to give their effort and ini-
tiative to such matters. These men will
be the representatives of the student
body— elected not to assert the power
placed in their trust, but to serve with
it to the best of their ability.

 

actions which erupted out of the

STEVE SUTTLE

 

—

 

 

Store Your Winter Clothes
With Us

Fully Insured
PAY NEXT FALL

ROCKBRIDGE LAUNDRY

and

DRY CLEANERS

y

 

 

 

 

 

The First National Bank

of Lexington
*
has special checking accounts

for students

Party Platforms

University Party

(Continued from page 1)
Hence, the Executive Committee
would maintain its position at the
head of the Student Government
with the power to interpret the
Constitution and the Honor System.

ASSIMILATION

We propose that the punitive pow-
ers of the Assimilation Committee
be increased, and that Conventional
Dress not be required off the cam-
pus proper after 6 p.m. on weekdays
and from 1 p.m. Saturday, through
Sunday night.

In conclusion, we propose to in-
from the Student Body of the week-
ly business of the Executive Com-
mittee, so that the students being
aware of the problems before the
Committee may express their opin-
ions on pertinate issues. We feel
that this might best be accomplish-
ed through the varied student news
media of the University.

ROSIE PAGE,
CHARLIE COMMANDER,
BILL OUTMAN,

Independent Party
(Continued from page 1)

tact with the students and could
deal promptly with the offenses as
they arise.

UNCAS McTHENIA
RAY ROBRECHT
STEVE SUTTLE

 

Lacrosse

Weekend

(Continued from page 3)

“John Hopkins has two of the best
coaches in the country, says Mc-
Henry, “and should be really
tough.”

After the Hopkins game, Saturday,
only two more games will remain.
Both are away contests, one at
Washington College in Chestertown
on May 6, and the final game at
U.Va. on May 13. The Generals lost
to both of these teams last year by
substantial scores.

The starting lineup for Saturday
will be: Goalie—Herb Tinley; De-
fense—John Dinkel, Bill Wheeler,
and Bart Mitchell; Milfielders—Steve
Suttle, Terry Fohs, and John Mc-
Daniel; Attack—Charles Gummey,
Jimmy Powers, and Hunter Tracht.

 

he ho Be he- Be ie che he oe le she he Be che she Be dhe dle Be le le Me Be Bae ache che he She he ee eee eet 2 Oe

‘Ooompah, Oompah!’
(Continued from page 2)

herd when suddenly the guide turn-
ed to the agent and said, ‘Be careful
and don’t step in the oompah’.”

why not vote for me.”

And that was the end of the
speech, and the end of candidate
number four as a political aspirant
at our school.

(A word of caution for the wise:
do not spend over 10 seconds look-
ing for a moral or political analogy
in this column, because you may
be sorely disappointed. Of course,
anything you want to read in is okay
with us.

Seber rherde obo ode ote ofo ref ofere ofa fee oe ofe fe ofa sfe forgo
*

IDEAL t
BARBER SHOP

QUICK SERVICE

 

>?
RA
%
%
%
eA
%
%
%
a

Pee eeeeeebeenebbeetbee

 

LRLitdetpt AAA Dee eS ee
TT .,.jreT'''*'*'''eo0vve

 

ee Se ee ee ee ee I et i et re

Shirt Service as You Like it
Quality Cleaning and Pressing
UNIVERSITY CLEANERS
HO 3-3622
*

“Your Campus Neighbors”

he hehe dhe the Be cle he eRe te Be Be he Be he Be Be BeBe Me Be Be Be Be Be Be Be Be Be Be Be Be Ba Be Ba Be Be Ba Be Bote Bade da de

ole he Be Be Be Bo che Be Be he le BeBe Be te Be Be Be Be a Bae
Oe ee ee es ee ee

 

 

eee ee eS Se ST TS SETS Tee TT ST SE Se TTS

 

 

For those extra pieces

of
FURNITURE

for your room
see our stock
before buying

VARNER AND POLE

 

 

 

 

 

Open a convenient student Checking account
TODAY

at

Rockbridge National Bank

Member Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation

 

 

 

The farther smoke
travels Air-Soflened,

i the smoother
it tastes

 

 

 

 

the milder, the cooler,

SATISFIER!

Rally ‘round the king that goes all out to please your
taste. Every satisfying puff is A/r-Softened to

enrich the flavor and make it mild. Special porous
paper lets you draw fresh air into the full king length
of top-tobacco, straight Grade-A all the way.

Join the swing to

tole

  
   

AFIELD KINE

© Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co

 
 

 

   

FRIDAY
Edition

PRESIDENT-ELECT UNCAS McTHENIA

   

VICE PRESIDENT-ELECT RAY ROBRECHT

Che King-tiun Phi

Washington and Lee Semi-Weekly Newspaper

   

SECRETARY-ELECT STEVE SUTTLE

McThenia, Robrecht, Suttle Upset Opponents

FRIDAY
Edition

 

Volume LXI

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA, APRIL 28, 1961

Number 52

 

INDEPENDENTS SWEEP 4 BIG-7 POSTS

For Secretary

By GEORGE HONTS
Managing Editor

Andrew “Uncas” McThenia, Ray
Robrecht and Steve Suttle, all In-
dependent Party candidates, swept
into the Student Body offices in
yesterday’s election in the biggest
upset the “Big Clique” has suffered
since it came to power.

In the Dance Set elections, Inde-
pendent’s Dave Montgomery won
Openings while the University Party
captured Fancy Dress, Springs, and
Finals with Bill Ide, Charles McCord
and Jack Vardaman.

The returns:

For President

RS iscsi ae 595
WO sine naienannind 436
For Vice President
NE  ccciinciiiia onl 602
COIS Gosissciiacsccnnne 431

 

Suttle
Outman

Ide

McCord

 

In an election which was expected
to be a photo-finish in several races,
the Independent Party—down 125
votes—marshalled 100 per cent of
their voting capacity along with sup-
port from the Law School and the

 

non-fraternity members to unseat
the University Party candidates.

A harried EC began counting bal-
lots in mid-afternoon but did not
finish the tabulation until 9:45 last
night. Four solemn officials stood on
the steps of the Student Union and
announced the results to a cheering
group of Independent Party mem-
bers while disheartened University
Party supporters displayed their dis-
may in various ways. For the first
time in at least three years the
Student Union was packed with
students anxious to hear the results.

McThenia was the first member of
the Independent Party to be elected
student body president since a fellow
Delt and classmate, Arnold Groobey
won in 1957. Since that time only
two members of the Independent
Party have held a Big Seven office.
Corky Briscoe served a term as sec-
retary and Don Partington was elect-

 

ed president of Fancy Dress.

In the hotly contested election, a
record number of student voters
came to the polls. Every Indepen-
dent Party member voted; only four
University Party members did not
vote. And almost 100 per cent of
the Law school and the non-frater-
nity voted.

The results of the election caught
even the Independent Party by sur-
prise. Why? Was it the stimulation
created by the sincere devotion to
ideals by Grayfred Gray and Pro-
test who helped McThenia get the
support of the Independent Party
only last Saturday? Was it last
week’s Ring-tum Phi forum? Was it
the “gravy train” speeches in Thurs-
day’s assembly? Was it a reaction
to the flippant wordage of “Gro-
tesque”? Or was it the attempt of
six candidates to meet the challenge
of an awakening student body? We

 

do not pretend to know.

The proposed constitutional
amendment from the student body
which would permit the amend-
ment of the constitution by a simple
majority of students voting failed
to gather the necessary two-thirds
vote. The EC proposal which would
allow a student on public trial for
an honor system violation to have
professional counsel passed with 819
approval.

Reactions ran strong to the elec-
tion outcome. However, a soon-to-
be-jubliant Bill Johnston, Indepen-
dent Party chairman, commented
before the results were announced,
“the Independent Party has no
gripes. We presented well-qualified
men who deserve to run and to win.”

To the Student Body:

I want to thank you for your sup-
port in yesterday’s election. This

 

past week has been the most excit-
ing one of my life. However, I real-
ize that the excitement will soon be
over, and that the laurels of elec-
tion day soon wither.

My fellow officers and I hope to
establish the groundwork for our
program of the coming year within
the next few weeks. We hope to
call on you for your aid and sug-
gestions.

It is with the highest esteem that
I regard Rosewell Page’s judgment
and ability. I hope and trust that I
may call for his assistance both in
the interim period’ and -the ensuing
year,

As I stated numerous times dur-
ing the campaign I want both to lead
and serve this student body.

Thank you.

Uncas McThenia
President-Elect

 

Building Contracts

Contracts have been awarded to
three Virginia firms for construction
of new science and dormitory fa-
cilities and modifications of the heat-
ing plant at Washington and Lee
University, President Fred C. Cole
said today.

The largest contract was awarded
to John P. Pettyjohn and Co. of
Lynchburg, which will build a new,
four-story building for the depart-
ments of physics and biology and
make modifications and additions to
existing science building for the
departments of chemistry and geolo-
gy. Contract price for the project
is $1,359,836.

W. W. Coffey and Son of Lex-
ington will build a four-story dor-
mitory for 91 students, most of them
freshmen, at a cost of $326,545.

The Boiler and Brick Refractory

 

Law School Names Men
To New Moot Court Team

By PETE ALFORD

The 1961 Moot Court Team mem-
bers were announced today by
Joseph M. Spivey, team chairman.

Spivey, a VMI graduate in the
class of 1957, is joined by three other
law students for next fall’s com-
petition. William H. Clark, Jr., a
freshman law student from Rich-
mond, also qualified for the team.

A Cornell graduate in ’59, Richard
L. Rose from Allenhurst, N. J., will
also represent Washington and Lee’s
Law School. The final Moot Court
team position goes to James T. Tate,
a VMI Graduate of 1959.

The four men were chosen by the
results of the Burke Competition.
This is administered each Spring by
the Law School and with these
best performances become members
of the Moot Court Team.

The 1960 brief was labor law, but
the subject and site for next fall’s
competition will not be known until
this summer.

If W&L’s team places first or sec-

ond in the regional, they will go)

 

Company of Richmond will receive
$49,949.72 for installing a new steam
boiler and making other improve-
ments to the University’s existing
heating plant.

All three firms were low bidders
on the respective projects, President
Cole said. Including equipment,
furnishings, and fees, the three pro-
jects will involve an expenditure of
nearly $2,000,000 for the universi-
ty, he added.

Target date for completion of all
construction is August 1, 1962, Presi-
dent Cole said.

The science facilities are a direct
result of a two-year university de-
velopment program which sought
funds from among Washington and
Lee alumni, parents, and other
friends. The new building will re-
lieve generally crowded conditions
in the existing Howe Hall, now hous-
ing chemistry, geology, and biology,
and will provide a new location for
the Department of Physics, now sit-
uated in Reid Hall, a building sche-
duled for rennovation in the future
to accommodate other academic de-
partments, primarily Journalism and
Communications.

The new dormitory will be a self-
liquidating investment, and will
serve the primary purpose of elimi-

 

Awarded

nating the use of several small aux-
iliary dormitories for freshmen,
President Cole said.

Additions to the heating plant will
accommodate the new science build-
ing and also will provide adequate
reserve capability for improvement
of the existing general heating sys-
tem.

 

Sazeracs Select Members

Dave Peters and Dave Knight
have been elected to lead the Sac-
eracs next year. Peters, a Sigma Nu
from Hagerstown, Md., will be pres-
ident and director of the group.
Knight, a Phi Delt from Worcester,
Mass., is the new business manager
and treasurer.

Five new men were invited to join
the Sazeracs following the group’s
recent try-outs. They are: King Mill-
ing, John Winebrenner, John Baker,
Mark Gee, and Dave Streetman.

The Sazeracs will lose five men
at graduation this year: Huntley
Biggs, outgoing president, Billy Mar-
tin, outgoing manager, Hardie Karrh,
Henry Harrell, and Billy Heald. The
other members of the group besides
Knight and Peters are: Jo Tartt,
Eric Wilson, and Bob VanRensselaer.

 

Dr. Robert Dickey To Retire
After 50 Years Teaching Career

A college teaching career that has
spanned a half century will end in
June when Dr. Robert W. Dickey
retires as head of Washington and
Lee University’s Department of
Physics.

Dr. Dickey, who first faced a class
of undergraduates as an assistant
in physics at Washington and Lee
in 1910, will be succeeded as de-
partment head by Dr. Edward F.
Turner, Jr., 41, a former honor stu-
dent of Dr. Dickey’s and a 1950
graduate of the university.

Still vigorous as he approaches his

to New York City for the national | 70th birthday on May 13, Dr. Dickey

competition.

says he is looking forward to a re-

 

tirement of “scientific loafing.” By
that, he says he means pursuing
scientific interests at a lesiurely
pace.

Dr. Dickey’s first degree at Wash-
ington and Lee in 1910 was a BS.
in civil engineering, and although he
went on to a master’s and doctor’s
degrees in physics at Johns Hop-
kins, he admits that he has remained
an engineer at heart.

Dr. Turner is especially enthusias-
tic about accommodations planned
for student research projects under
Washington and Lee’s new Robert
E. Lee Research Program. “The re-

(Continued on page 4)

 

Notices

Following the example of the
Town of Lexington, Washington-
and Lee University will go on
Daylight Saving (advanced) Time,
beginning Sunday, April 30. Clocks
are to be advanced one hour Sat-
urday midnight, April 29.

The Dining Hall will thus be on
advanced time on Sunday morn-
ing.

Note: The time of church serv-
ices should be checked, since some
churches will still be on standard
time on Sunday April 30.

Classes beginning Monday morn-
ing, May 1, will be on daylight
saving time. (This means that the
8:25 class will be at 7:25, former
standard time.)

In view of the construction to
begin Monday, May 1, on the new
science building, it will be neces-
sary to observe the following traf-
fic rules. It is realized that this
will result in considerable incon-

(Continued on page 4)

 

$50,000 Scholarship
Grant Made By Grahams

A bequest of $50,000 has been
received by Washington and Lee
University from the estate of the
late Mrs. Samuel Jordan Graham
of Washington, D.C., President Fred
C. Cole announced today.

Income from the bequest will es-
tablish Judge and Mrs. Samuel Jor-
dan Graham Scholarships for upper-
classmen with outstanding records
in political science, pre-medicine,
and law, President Cole said.

An additional sum of $3,500 was
bequeathed to the university by
Mrs. Graham to provide perpetual
maintenance of the grave of William

Graham on the Washington and Lee}

campus. William Graham, first man
to hold the title of the president
of the institution, was an ancestor
of the late Judge Graham.

Mrs. Graham died December 5,
1959, and is buried in Jackson Me-

 

morial Cemetery in Lexington at the |

Graham family plot. Judge Graham
was a member of the Class of 1876
at Washington and Lee.

700 Students Witness

Candidates

An hour before the polls opened
yesterday morning 700 students
gathered in Doremus Gymnasium
to have one last look at the six
candidates for the Student Body
offices.

Six somewhat tired and haggard
looking candidates spoke for five
minutes each, offering a fresh
view of what they had _ been
expounding for a week and ex-
plaining once again why they were
the best qualified for the of-
fice they sought. The audience,
forewarned by president Frazier to
be orderly, listened intently to each
of the six and registered their re-
spect and/or support with a solemn
round of applause. All the candi-
dates showed signs of the tension
from the hardest fought campaign for
offices in recent years; everyone
agreed, regardless of the outcome,
the race was well run.

Andrew “Uncas” McThenia was
the first candidate to the podium.
Unlike his Monday night speech,
this one was reserved and given in
a manner which betrayed the fact
he had lost his voice twice in the
campaign. McThenia spoke of mixed
emotions—a desire to win and a
desire to serve. He said there were
no instant cures for the problems of
this student generation, and the re-
forms he advocated were goals on
which students should set their
eyes. He again went over the pro-

| posals which brought him to the

attention of the Independent Party
and the student body.

Rosewell Page took a swipe at Mc-
Thenia, saying the University Party
platform was sound and practical
and that their reforms could be
carried through by the student body
without the necessity of getting
faculty and Trustee approval. He

proposed a legislative council which |

would be representative of all the
student body—law students,
parties and the non-fraternity men.
The EC would retain veto power.

both |

 

’ Final Plea

He admitted that the political set-
up bars some students from an ac-
tive role in the government but
such would not be the case with
the legislative council.

Charles Commander echoed the
University Party platform and stated
he believed himself in more touch
with the student body than his op-
ponent. He too said the University
Party’s platform was more rational
than the Independent Party’s. In
referring to the Independent’s pro
posals Commander said the party
was unrealistic, idealistic or had
underestimated the intelligence of
the student body.

Ray Robrecht admitted neither
party had had time to study all
the needed changes, but his EC
experience gave him an advantage
in seeking out new areas of reform.
He pointed to his record to show
he is not out of touch with the stu-
dent temperament, and he reassert-
ed his beliefs.

Steve Suttle quietly reminded his
audience that the platforms and
qualifications were fully _ stated.
Only the voting remained to be done.
He lashed out, in a logical manner,
at the inequality of representation
in the student government. He asked
that the inequality be reduced. He
estimated one-half of the student
body by virtue of their fraternity
affiliation or lack of affiliation was
unrepresented. He pointed out the
fact that the Independent Party
men had earned their right to run
for office. “None of us,” he said,
“were put on the gravy train in
our freshman year.”

Bill Outman, UP candidate for
secretary, said he was well-qualified
to hold the position of “honor and
leadership” which he sought. He
ealled for more communications be-
tween the student body and the
Executive Committee. He said he is
experienced and able to give this
liaison.
Page 2

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

 

Ghe Ring-tum Phi
Friday Edition

 

Reflections

We wish the victors well. Their mandate is clear and un-
precedented. We hope that their task of service to this uni-
versity will be informed by a sense of dedication to its ideals and
loyalty to its heritage, as well as the currently popular desire to

speed its progress.

These past few days have been charged with a vitality in
student affairs that seems altogether new to Washington and
Lee. Such vitality is manifest in the overwhelming concern of
this student body for its self-government.

It is not, as some might construe, responsible to the rabble-
rousing techniques of one individual. To say that this campus
is so unsophisticated that is could lend itself to bohemian per-
suasion is a gross misstatement. Such influence as Protest—the
organ of the “angry young men’’—may have wielded in yes-
terday’s election or before was negligible as is reflected in the
overwhelming defeat of the amendment it sponsored.

This newspaper has stood with liberal and constructive re-
form, but we do not believe in reform for its own sake, or
for the personal aggrandizement of the reformer—yet such
motives guide the pens of Protest.

The strife, however, is over, and we join in calling for a
unified student sentiment behind our new campus officers.

 

 

PEANUTS

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   

 

I THINK YOU A DOG WHO EXERCISES AS
FEED THAT DOG LITTLE AS HE DOES, REALLY
TOO MUCH, CHARLIE | DOESN'T NEED MUCH TO EAT !
BROWN...
9
Sd
You CAN KICK ME, YOU CAN BUT DONT INTERFERE
YELL AT ME, YOU CAN we \ “LIFE
WE, YOU CANINSOLT ME... | | HTH MY FOOD

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Letter to the Editor

 

Student Assails Campus Attitude

To the Student Body:

I have been silent long enough! I
must speak. I hope you bask in
glory—hyopcritical fools! A terrible
injustice has been done. You have al-
lowed the intoxicating opiate of re-
form to go directly to your heads
and as a result, democracy has been
served no better than it has in past
years. In half-ignorance, you have
followed the dictates of a few re-
formers, rather than the dictates of
your hearts and so so-called minds.
I am ashamed of Washington and
Lee. Wake up! Rub the dreams our
of your eyes and look what you have
done .

You cried for democracy, for equal
representation—you have given the
big three offices to one party, you
have given three out of seven offices
to one fraternity—this is representa-
tion?

You ask for more student partici-
pation in government—with the elec-
tion of a president and vice-presi-
dent from the law school, you have
elected for yourselves, gentlemen,
five law students (out of twelve EC
positions) to serve on your Execu-
tive Committee, when the law school
makes up one tenth of the student
body—this is more participation in
government?

You cry for better candidates and
here you have committed the most
heinous crime of all. You allowed
yourselves to be talked into elect-
ing a president who has served for
three days rather than three years.
You were mesmerized into ignoring
the importance of experience and
qualification in voting for the office
of President of the student body.

What will the reformers talk you
into next? Shall we abolish the
assimilation committee’s powers off
campus? Shall we abolish the speak-
ing tradition? Then why not take
the next step—the honor system—
let’s destroy that too. In fact, let’s
destroy everything that Washing-
ton and Lee has stood for in the
past because it’s old, it’s not mod-
ern, it promotes apathy.

Ah apathy, what a lovely word
to banter about. What a convenient,
tempting key it has been, opening
wide the barred doors of tradition
and institution. Well, maybe there’s
a reason for apathy, Mr. Gray. May-
be what you call apathy, a more
perceptice observer would call con-
tentment, solidity and pride. Pride
in a system and university which is
built on the foundations of honor,
good taste and reason.

I cannot say that I am proud of
what Washington and Lee did last
night. I feel a deep sense of shame
and pity at her level of intelligence
and common sense. Sour grapes? No,
just rotten ones.

STEVE DANZANSKY

 

Ireland Is Head Counselor;
Ketcham, Sharp Assistants;
Three Return For 2nd Year

Tim Ireland, a rising intermediate
law student, has been named head
dormitory counselor for 1961-62.
Serving with him will Robert Ket-
cham, Pi Phi law student, and
Phil Sharp, an SAE rising senior,
as assistant head counselors.

The other dormitory counselors
for 1961-62 have also been an-
nounced. Returning counselors from
this year are Rosie Page, SAE ris-
ing senior, and Jerry Hyatt and
Terry Fohs, both rising Delt seniors.
The new counselors are Dan Balfour,
SPE rising junior; Dave Bevans,
rising PiKA junior; Lanny Butler,
rising SAE junior; Meade Christian,
rising Phi Gam junior; Richard
Edwards, rising Phi Kap junior;
Gerald Kestern, a first year law stu-
dent; Dave Montgomery, rising Delt
junior; John Paul, rising Pi Phi in-
termediate law student; Bob Payne,
rising Delt junior; Jim Russ, rising
Phi Psi senior and Ashley Wiltshire,
rising Delt junior.

James Hitch and Gerald Oullette
will be in charge of Baker Dorm
for next year.

Howard Slater, Charles McCord,
Steve Stull and Pete Agelesto have
been named alternate counselors.

In announcing th list of counselors,
Dean Gilliam commented: “The com-
mittee regretted that the limited
number of places prevented the ap-
pointment of a great many competent
candidates. It is the committee’s
hope that a number of such men,
particularly those who will be
juniors next year will apply next
year.”

 

Notice

Elections for the Editor and
Business Manager of the Ring-
tum Phi and The Southern Col-
legian will be held Monday, May 1
in the Student Union. Previous
experience for any of these posi-
tions is not required, and all stu-

 

The end is in sight for the major
problem that has been facing the
Washington and Lee University De-
partment of Journalism and Com-
munications since it was founded
here by Robert E. Lee a little less
than 100 years ago.

One of the relatively few depart-
ments of its type to be fully ac-
credited by the American Council
of Education for Journalism, W&L
is rated in competition with the best
and largest schools of Journalism
throughout the country, but suffers
considerably from lack of space, es-
pecially for many “laboratory”
needs.

The University, however, is cur-
rently holding a $2,000,000 fund rais-
ing campaign to improve present fa-
cilities and for the construction
of new buildings. Approximately
$250,000 of the money to be raised in
this year-long campaign will be used
for the improvement of the journal-
ism facilities.

Many of the 20 journalism courses
offered here have “laboratory”
needs: professional city and wire
rooms; a better radio broadcasting
studio (and eventually television);
photographic darkrooms for class
use; as well as the usual classrooms,
faculty offices, library and adminis-
trative space.

The department of journalism here
was the first college-level instruc-
tion of its type offered anywhere in
the world. In addition to its regular
curriculum the department also con-
ducts certain major external enter-
prises and services to the news-
paper and broadcasting professions.
The Southern Interscholastic Press
Association was founded here in
1925 and an SIPA Convention is held
annually on the W&L campus. The

 

department has also been charged

by the Alfred duPont Awards Foun-
dation with supervision in the tele-
communications field.

For the many-faceted program, the
faculty in journalism does the best
it can with improvised quarters
scattered among three buildings. The
department has a “makeshift” city
room, no audio-visual room for the
course which make large use of films
and slides, only partial broadcast-
ing facilities, not enough offices for
the faculty, and a lack of storage
space.

The journalism side of the ex-
pansion plans calls for a remodeling
of the present Reid Hall for both
journalism and _ pre-engineering.
This is to be a complete rebuilding
of the interior for the sake of more
flexible arrangement of rooms and

elimination of the present wasted | |

space in the middle of the building.
The ground floor will be devoted
largely to the Journalism Laboratory
Press, while the upper floors will
contain a regular newspaper city
room and wire room, broadcasting
room, photographic darkrooms, as
well as conventional classrooms and
offices.

O. W. Riegel, head of the depart-
ment since 1930, envisions the pro-
ject as a “communications arts”
building bringing under one roof the
following activities and facilities:

1) Classrooms and offices for basic
instruction and research programs
related to the mass media, public
opinion and advertising.

2) Auxiliary professional facili-
ties, including news, printing, adver-
tising and film laboratories, wire
room, radio and television studios
and photographic darkrooms.

3) Accommodations for profes-
sional seminars.

 

 

 

$250,000 Allotted For J-School Expansion
Reid Hall To Be Remodeled | een

New journalism facilities to be in Reid Hall

4) Offices for external service
functions such as administration of
the duPont radio-television awards
and the SIPA.

5) Specialized library and reading
rooms, and archives for audio-visual
materials.

6) Offices for student publications,
such as the Southern Collegian, The
Ring-tum Phi, and the Calyx.

Plans for the improvement cam-
paign call for construction to get
underway upon the completion of
new dormitory and science facilities
which are scheduled to be open the
beginning of the 1962-63 school year.

Five professional journalists visited
the campus this year, interviewing
junior and senior journalism majors
for possible positions during the
summer and upon graduation. They
included W. F. Clingman, Jr., per-
sonnel director of the Piedmont
Publishing Co., Winston-Salem, N
C., Vint Jennings, managing editor
of the Charleston (W. Va.) Daily
Mail, William G. Leverty, assistant
managing editor of the Richmond
Times-Dispatch, and R. K. T. “Kit”
Larson and Cameron Gregory, rep-
resentatives of the personnel depart-
ment of Norfolk Newspapers, Inc.

 

By VICTOR LASSETER
Friday Columnist

This week’s student-body election
without a doubt constitutes a verit-
able revolution in
our campus politi-
cal system. This
column is written
before the results
of the elections are
known, but that
is not important.
The important
thing is that, for
the first time in
years (perhaps for
the first time in
the history of the
school) candidates ran on meaning-
ful platforms rather than merely on
a long list of extra-curricular ac-
tivities.

It should be pointed out that the
credit for this change does not go
to the so-called student leaders. The
fact that we have had an election
based upon significant issues is due
more to the efforts of Grayfred Gray
and his Protest than to the soul-
searching efforts of the party in
power to improve the Washington
and Lee student government. It was
Gray who began questioning the
present mechanics of the honor sys-
tem, and it was largely through
Gray’s persistent questioning that
we had any issues at all in this
campaign. Proof? At the forum
sponsored last week by the Ring-
tum Phi most of the candidates
turned away in horror when a stu-
dent asked “What will you do to
make Washington and Lee a better
university?”

Despite the fact that platforms
were almost forced upon the can-
didates and had to be hastily
drawn up, the fact remains that
both parties offered some solutions
to problems which had never be-
fore been faced by our “leaders.”

We have been plagued by an hon-
or system whose workings seemed
at times to be as mysterious as those
of the NKVD, with a tradition of
conventional dress which was neither
enforced nor rejected, and with a
system of government often com-
pletely out of touch with the needs
of the student body. The adoption | 399
of party platforms indicates a radi-
cal change in our conception of
leadership. Student body leaders are
no longer expected to follow (as
some candidates suggested), but to
take the initiative in pointing out
faults in our present system of
government and to offer solid pro-
posals to amend these faults.

These elections have been a
valuable, albeit a sudden lesson
for the future. Above all, they
have shown that a majority of stu-
dents are no longer content with
leaders who would fail to take a

Lasseter

 

 

dents are invited to participate.

stand on significant issues when

 

the solution of these issues is of
the greatest importance to the
welfare of the entire university.

With this, the elections have
shown that we want leaders, not
figure-heads, and that election to an
office is not to be regarded as an
inherent right of the spoils system
but as an award for capability and
intellectual insight.

This is too valuable a lesson to

 

Platforms Are Now Election Criteria;

Credit Should Ge To Grayfred Gray

be forgotten. If, for example, we
should succeed in placing the honor
system upon a surer foundation,
there is no reason to abandon our
new conception of significant politi-
cal competition and to revert to the
old oligarchic spoils system. Even if
Washington and Lee were a Utopia
among universities we would still
need active student government, for
where there is inactivity there is
stagnation and, again, oligarchy.

 

RES IPSA LOQUITUR

 

By THORNS CRAVEN
Friday Columnist

This week has really put a
columnist in a very precarious po-
sition. All the
shouting is over
on Thursday, I
have to write be-
fore Thursday is
half over, and you
don’t get to read
a word until Fri-
day is almost gone.
Since DST doesn’t
come swinging in

until the SIPA
girls go home, no-
esata body stands to

win and/or lose until next week.

This, however, doesn’t mean that
there won’t be some winners and
some losers running around before
the week is over. To the contrary,
for if the wheels of justice are set
in motion with the expediency that
has been promised, we can expect
three notices of optional departure
by the time the clock speeds up.

What I am referring to, of course,
are all the charges of stolen plat-

TheRing-tum Phi

The Ring-tum Phi is published Tues-
day and ry during the college year.
It is printed we the Journalism Labor-
atory Press, ashington and Lee Uni-
vorelty. The mailing address is Box

, Lexington, Va,

Wares ag second class matter Sep-
tember 20, 1946 at the Post Office, Lex-
ington, a., under the act of March
a

National Advertising Re popeenenys'
The National Advertisers Service
420 Madison Ave., New York, NY

Friday Edition
Editor-in-Chief...............Nathan Simpson

 

  

  
    
  

Business Manager.............. Huntley Biggs
Editorial Board
Managing Editor................ George Honts
Assistant Managing Editor....................
<1 ners Roy Goodwin
BG ii srsnsssssssasserisecsvsonasinis Andy Nea
Sports Editor... .John Allgood
Copy Editor............... Tom Jordan
Assistant Copy Edi .Dick Heard
Photography Editor. Bill Bowen

 

What Will The Party In Power
Do With Party Out Of Power?

Ww Ww

forms which have been flying about
for the past week. If any of these
charges had weight of evidence be-
hind them then I expect that by
now the party in power is meeting
to see what to do with the parties
not in power. If all this stealing
really went on then surely some-
one must have seen some of this
political dirtywork going on.

The trial could go something like
this:

“Mr. Losing-candidate, you are
accused of a breach of the honor
system involving stealing.”

(Accused blushes, asks for elab-
oration.)

“We'll hint around for a while,
Mr. Accused, but just as a matter
of policy we can’t reveal the charge
until you ask for a trial. We can’t
just throw our advantage out the
window like that, old man. You
should know that by now. If we
told you what you did then you
might get away without a mark
on your record. By the way, would
you sign this receipt for your per-
sonal belongings.”

(Accused says defiantly: “O.K.”)

Some time passes, as accused sits
in cell with all his old campaign
posters to remind him of his past
glory. A slick psychological man-
uever. Then, in his sweeping robes
and flowing wig, out comes the
chief justice, who says softly:

“Sorry, old man, 2 to 1 in there.
You'll have to check out. Unless,
heh-heh, you want a scandal and all
that. Then you can go to trial. You
realize, of course, that if you do
take the trial the student body will
be offended if you don’t turn over
the gate receipts to SWMSFC.”

(Accused, mumbling, says, “Well,
now that it’s over, since I don’t
want to put you guys to the trouble
of a public trial, what did I do?
You know, no hard feelings, but just

LETTERS

piroR

April 27, 1961

cE

Editor,
Ring-tum Phi
Dear Sir:
Upon receiving my copy of the
recent campus publication (now de-
funct, as it really had only one

 

purpose in mind) entitled “Gro-
tesque,” and after reading it care-
fully, I demised that the author
seemed to have an axe to grind;
and he was grinding it on the grind-
stone while it was still buried in
McPhlerb’s head.

I know the author and have known
him for some time. I realize that
he and other of his friends have
been quite upset at the political re-
sults that have come out of our cam-
pus system with regard to elections
in the past, such as Ralph Evan’s
loss a few years ago. He must re-
member that this was in no way a
breakdown of the corrupt political
system, but a breakthrough of the
democratic process that had been
hidden for so many years. This boy,
seeing another possible defeat with
regard to the election of a few days
ago, panicked and decided to use
his poor humor to the furthering of
the University party and the bolster-
ing of his own ego.

Washington and Lee is supposed to
teach a person honesty and integ-
rity, but above all else respect for
his fellow man. After three and one
half years, I would have at least
expected that this boy could draw
a line between what is low and un-
derhanded and what is above board
when it comes to humor. He has
shown himself to be an excellent
comedian. Yet, this was not enough
glory and he, not content with past
well deserved honors, decided to try
his hand at stabbing people in the
back. Perhaps, as Leopold and Loeb,
he was only interested in the kicks.
On the other hand, he could very
well have been worried that the
party system which has stood for
so many years was again on the
verge of giving way to democracy.

I question not the reasons or po-
litical motives for this slurring farce,
rather I question the reason for
“Grotesque,” and why this boy low-
ered himself to even put together
such a piece of trash. This brief re-
gression back to juvenile expres-
sions makes me wonder if he fully
realized exactly what he was doing.
The only answer to this can be
found in flipping a coin; and whether
it comes up heads or tails, the boy
will still not be able to answer it.

A UNIVERSITY PARTY
MEMBER

 

Notice

There will be a meeting of the
Campus Club at 7 p.m. Tuesday,
May 2, in the Student Union to

 

for the record so I won’t bet busted

 

Advertising Manager...... Edward Holmes
Circulation Manager.......... Peter Agelesto

(Continued on page 4)

elect officers for the coming school
year. All members are requested to
be present.
THE RING-TUM PHI

Page 3

 

Carpenter Stops W&M, 5-1;
Here Tomorrow

Colonials

Roy Carpenter stopped William
and Mary, his old nemesis for the
second time Tuesday, 5-1, on a
neat four-hitter.

Carpenter, who’s pitched in every
game that the Generals have played
against the Indians during his four
years here, chalked up his third
straight win. He struck out nine.

The Generals mustered only four
hits off W&M southpaw Bruce

 

Trackmen
Down Elon,
Lynchburg

Despite the usual cold, rainy
weather, W&L’s trackmen rocked |
around the track Thursday as they |
smashed Elon College, 94 1/3-45 2/3.

The win was the Generals’ second |
of the week, seventh of the season,

 

O'Hara, but they put three of
them together to produce a four
run third inning.

With one out in the Generals’

Uyenoyama,
doubled Martin home. Ned Hobbs

The Braves got their only run in

, the fourth, when third baseman Bob
| Irby hit a solo home run to center
| field. It was Irby who sent the sea-

son’s first contest between the clubs
into extra innings when he homered
off Carpenter in the ninth at Wil-
liamsburg.

| The Generals scored their fifth
run in the bottom of the six. Car-
| penter reached first on a fielder’s
| choice, moved to second on a walk,
|

 

and scored on an error.
Carpenter, who leads the Generals’

=“ mound staff in games won, pushed

and 14th dual meet victory in a row.| Hm

Tuesday they topped Lynchburg

College, 80-42. |

Coach Norm Lord juggled his |
distance men_ switching Mike |
Shank to the 880, Skip Essex to |

the mile, and Mack Brownlee to | §

the 2-mile. Still each came in with |
a first.

Brownlee turned in the day’s best
performance as he beat last year’s
2-mile time by nine seconds with a
10:28.6. This was the first time
Brownlee has run the 2-mile this
year. Essex was first in the mile
with 4:51 and Shank took the 880
with 2:07.5.

Jumper Robin Kell was high scor-
er with eight points. He _ took
first in the high jump at 5-8 and
second in the hop-step-jump at 39-2.

Kell nearly had two firsts, but
Elon’s George Wooten, who had
never done the hop-step-jump
before, passed Kell on his last
jump with 39-7.

W&L swept only one event
Thursday—the pole vault. Jim Park-
er took first at 11-6.

Preston Lancaster ran his fastest
high hurdle race of the season as
he edged Elon’s Ed Burke and
W&L’s Ed Jansen for first. His time
was 0:16.0.

Other winners—Dave Munroe, shot
put, 43-7; Chip Day, discus, 121-3;

Tommy Edwards, broad jump, 20-0; | -

Jim Hickey, 100, 10.1; Dave Britt,
220, 23.6; and Chuck Begg, javelin,
160-8 1/2.

ey

The Generals had their best meet
of the season Tuesday as they whip-
ped Lynchburg College, 80-42, at
Lynchburg.

Last year’s best times and dist-
ances took a beating as 16 marks
were bettered.

Jungle Jim Hickey led the way
as he sped to a new W&L record
in the 100-yard dash with a 0:09.75.
The old record was 0:09.8, set in
1915, and equalled by Hickey twice
this year.

Hickey had a 0:21.3, which tied his
record, in the 220-yard dash, but
placed second to Lynchburg’s Bill
Hopkins.

Freshman Skip Essex came within

 

 

(Continued on page 4)

 

 
 
  
 
 
 
 
    
  

 

Mack Brownlee
... Wins 2-Mile

his total to 32 innings pitched in six
games. In that span, he’s given up
| 23 hits, including two doubles, a
' triple, and two home runs (both
iby Irby). He has an earned run
| average of 3.09. He’s walked nine,
|an average of one every four in-
| nings, and now leads the staff in
strikeouts with 28.

The Generals next take on George
Washington U., which comes in for
a 2:30 game on Smith Field to-
morrow. Carpenter is expected to
start again for the Generals, who
now have a record of 5-4.

 

SET RECORDS

 

Hickey, Hopkins Duel To Draw

The track duel between W&L’s
Jim Hickey and Lynchburg’s Bill
Hopkins was a draw.

But both runners came out of the
meet with new records.

Hickey sped to a new record in
the 100-yard dash with a 0:09.75.
This bettered the old W&L mark
of 0:09.8, which was set in 1915.

Not to be outdone, Hopkins put
everything he had into the 220. He
edged Hickey by a stride and broke
the Lynchburg record with a 0:21.2
time. Hickey tied the W&L 220
mark, which he set at Wake Forest
in March, with a 0:21.3.

Both Hickey and Hopkins went

 

ET ee ee

Waggy’s Jewelers
35 S. Main Street
Phone HO 3-4121

THE HOME OF QUALITY

A ln ln ln tlt ttle tl tl dl le

into the meet undefeated in the
100. Hopkins was also undefeated in
the 220, but Hickey had lost once to
Hampden-Sydney’s Bill Caperton.
Hickey, the “South Boston
speedster,” emerged from the duel
in the 100 unscared and is still the
king of Virginia dash men.
Hopkins and Hickey were slated to
(Continued on page 4)

 

 

 

 

FORMAL WEAR

 

 

and
Complete Formal Accessories

The

COLLEGE TOWN
Shop

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

HO3

Wash, Grease, Lube, Road Service

Charge Accounts Welcome

DIXON’S

ESSO SERVICE CENTER
ROUTE 60 EAST IN LEXINGTON
Across from the White Top Resturant

~4214

 

The rich

a G
, r

OXFORD...

comfort... quality... appearance

texture of fine oxford skillfully

tailored gives the assurance of being well-
dressed. Case in point: the Arrow University
Fashion B.D. with the authentic roll of the
classic button-down. Your wardrobe is
incomplete without a selection of these casual
Arrow shirts in both long and short sleeves.

$5.00

) =1RROW=

“8 From the “Cum Laude Collection”

third, first baseman Howard Martin | ;
singled, Buck Rose reached first on |‘
an error by W&M second baseman | '
and Chuck Lane!/:

then walked, and Bobby Williams’ | |
single brought in Rose and Lane.| |
'|Roy Carpenter forced Williams at
-| second, then he and Hobbs pulled;
»|a double steal to score the fourth
| run,

 

Sie bier tces abana Mette abi

 

Clarence Roberts Clears 13-Feet In Pole Vault

+ RRARARR AORN “IRR RRR ER

Sled

acelin

   

sere nnn wean Aira wie nein acme aio ansilan

Roberts Is W&L’s First 14-Foot Pole Vaulter;
But He Cannot Compete, He’s A Geology Teacher

It’s been seven years since Wash-
ington and Lee has had a 13-foot
pole vaulter. Now it has one but he
cannot compete in meets.

W&L’s new vaulter is Clarence
Roberts, instructor in the geology
department.

Roberts, from Newport News, at-
tended Newport News High where
he set the state high school record
of 12-10 1/2 in his senior year. His
record was bettered last year by
John McCormick, another Newport
News High vaulter. McCormick has
cleared 13-7 in high school compe-
tition.

Roberts, who is 5-9, 150 pounds,
is one of the country’s top vaulters.
He graduated from the University
of Virginia in 1958. His highest
vault during his four years as a
letterman for Virginia was 13-3.

Roberts vaults regularly in AAU
competition for the Baltimore Olym-
pic Club. Last week he cleared 14-
feet for the first time in a dual meet
with the Quantico Marines.

At W&L, Roberts helps the Gen-
erals’ vaulters. But the practice
seems to have helped Roberts more.

 

“In the last two months I’ve im-
proved more than in the last two
years,” Roberts said.

Vaulting isn’t work to Roberts, it’s
fun. “I can’t consider vaulting work
because I really enjoy it. It’s like a
hobby,” he said.

At 5-9, Roberts is a little short for
for a vaulter, but that doesn’t bother
him.

“There are few small vaulters
around,” he said. “Vaulting is just
what you do with what you have.”

This year Roberts won the South
Atlantic Championship with a 13-6
vault, took first in a dual meet with
Quantico with a 14-0 vault, and tied
for fifth in the Quantico Relays with
a 13-6.

Roberts actually cleared 14-feet
for the first time in a meet in the
Quantico Relays. But after he
cleared the bar, his pole fell into
the pit, making the vault no good.
He cleared 14-feet indoors this win-
ter in practice.

 

TT ode oe oho ohe nde he oe ole oho oho nhe see ofe ahe ofe afore oe ofe rete

¢ NEW TOWN INN }
% Short Orders—Lunches %
& : %
% Catering to Students :
SeeeoERenbeonennbeddibbe

 

LEE E Eee Hee Eee ee

z ROBERT E. LEE

z BARBERSHOP

: David M. Moore

* Proprietor

ee oesteobeteooteteseoteteofofeteofofecooteobobobedeoh

 

 

Expert Motor Work

 

FOREIGN CARS AND STUDEBAKER LARKS
OUR SPECIALTY

MAIN STREET MOBIL STATION

Open 8:00 a.m.—8:00 p.m.

 

 

 

SATISFIER!

 

 

  

Perfectly in tune with your taste—that’s Chesterfield
King. Every satisfying puff is A/r-Softened to

enrich the flavor and make it mild. Special porous
paper lets you draw fresh air into the full king
length of top-tobacco, straight Grade-A all the way.

Join the swing to

GHESTERFIELD

KING

@© Liggett & Myers Tobacco Co, *
Page 4

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

Trackmen Top
Elon, LC

(Continued from page 3)

three-tenths of a second of break-
ing two minutes in the 880. His
2:00.3 run bettered last year’s top
mark by three seconds.

In racking up its sixth win of the
year and 13th in a row, W&L
swept four events: the shot put,
discus, high jump, and high hur-
dles.

Robin Kell paced the sweep of
the high jump which saw two W&L
men—Dave Britt and Phil McCaleb—
turn in their highest jumps of the
season. Kell jumped 5-11; Britt,
5-8; and McCaleb, 5-6

Dave Munroe grabbed first in
the shot with a toss of 44-8 3/4 and
third in the discus with 107-4.
George Cruger took second in the
shot with 41-0 and second in the
discus with 119-2.

Chip Day was first in the discus
with a heave of 127-3. Jim Parker
captured first in the pole vault with
12-0. Tommy Edwards jumped 21-7
to take first in the broad jump.

Ed Croft paced the high hurdle
sweep with a 0:15.8. Ed Jansen had
0.16.0 and John Pearson turned in
0:16.4,

“Tron Horse” Mike Shank ran his
best mile and 2-mile times in two
years, but finished second to Lynch-
burg’s Bill Hooper in both races.
Shank had a 4:43.3 in the mile and
10:34.1 in the 2-mile.

John Pearson won the low hurdles
with a 0;25.2. Fox Urquhart placed
second in the 440 with a 0:53.1,

Notice
(Continued from page 1)

venience to students, faculty, and
other members of the academic
community, and it is regretted that
these restrictions must be imposed,
but they are necessary in order
that progress can be made in our
science facilities. Consequently it
is requested that only those ve-
hicles which are necessary be
brought to the campus.

(1) There will be no parking be-
side or to the rear of Howe Hall.

(2) There will be no parking
or through traffic on the drive be-
tween Reid Hall and duPont Hall.

(3) There will be no through
traffic and parking on only one side
behind the Print Shop on the
lower level.

Parking will not be restricted:

(1) in the neighborhood of the
gymnasium (front and back).

(2) by the Library.

(3) in front and beside duPont

 

Hickey, Hopkins Draw
(Continued from page 3)

have a 440-yard duel in the lead-off
leg of the mile relay, but Hickey did
not run in the relay.

Hickey and Hopkins have another
meeting this year. The date is May 6
at the State Track Meet at Lynch-
burg’s City Stadium. With Hickey
and Hopkins in addition to the state’s
other dash men, the 100 and 220
should be both interesting tight
races.

 

 

 

 

 

STATE

LEXINGTON, VA
|_MOBART 3-3424 |

 

 

LASTS TIMES SATURDAY

NOW .. . Edna Ferber’s story of
passionate love and raw
courage comes to the screen!

Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer presents EDNA FERBER'S

conemascore « METROCOLOR
“wre GLENN FORD 4
MARIA SCHELL
ANNE BAXTER
ARTHUR O'CONNELL

a

     
        
  

 

  
  
     

 

 

DONALD O'CONNOR
CRY FOR
HAPPY

 

 

SUN.-MON.

WARNER BROS.
PRESENT

James
DEAN

as today’s teenager:

“REBEL
HOUT A

Cause” |

Hamric and Sheridan
JEWELERS
Watch and Jewelry Repair
Hand Engraving and Class Rings
HO 3-2022

     

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Radio Hospital

*
Radio, TV, Phonograph
Sales and Service

*

HO 3-3531

 

 

 

 

be hebebebedeb debebe be deeb eb tes

THE NEW

White Top

Restaurant
*

A personal invitation
to the
Students

Try our delicious foods
Route 60 East

 

SPENCER

General Tire
536 E. Nelson Street

Best in Tires
GENERAL
Best in Recapping
Kraft Tread

New and Used Tires
FOR COMPACT CARS

 

 

ee ee ee ee eee
errr eeeeeeererererrrrrrrrrrcc.rrtrcrtroy

Hee ode fe oho ode of ole of ofe of oo ole oe ole of oho fe ode fe fefeofeeds

FOR ROOM RESERVATIONS—CALL HO 3-2151

LEXINGTON MOTEL
Large Rooms—U. S. 11 By-Pass South
Free TV—Phones—Continental Breakfast
Only Motel in corporate limits of Lexington
COOCOHOOOHOSHASSSSOOHSHOTSSSHOOSOSHOHEHHOOSEOHLEOES

 

 

~ |

 

 

THE COLLEGE INN

The Best Food in Town

American and Italian

Catering to the Students, Faculty,
and Towns People

OPEN SUNDAYS

>

 

 

 

Dr. Robert Dickey To Retire

(Continued from page 1)

search opportunities will make a
great difference in the way in which
the department will be operated in
the future,” Dr. Turner predicts.

In many ways, Dr. Dickey and
Dr. Turner reflect the advance and
expansion of physics as a science
and academic discipline over the
past 50 years. Both men have solid
foundations in general physics, but
Dr. Dickey admits that over the
years his concern has been primarily
in teaching “classical” physics. Dr.
Turner, who came to Washington
and Lee originally to study journal-
ism, is a product of the post-World
War II nuclear age, with graduate
work in nuclear physics and an am-
bition to introduce more in this
area of study at Washington and
Lee. The new building has provisions
for a nuclear laboratory.

Dr. Dickey’s affiliation with Wash-
ington and Lee began in 1906 when
he enrolled as a freshman. A charter
member of the institution’s Phi Beta
Kappa chapter, he served as a stu-
dent instructor while earning BS.,
B.A., and M.A. degrees, and upon
completion of graduate school in
1916, he joined the faculty as an
associate professor.

He helped organize the department
of electrical engineering, and served
as a professor of physics and elec-
trical engineering between 1928 and
1934. When Washington and Lee
abandoned its engineering curricu-
lum, Dr. Dickey became Cyrus Mc-

 

Cormick Professor of Physics, and
in 1947 he became a professor on
the Thomas Ball Foundation.

Looking back, he singles out two
aspects of life at Washington and
Lee that have meant most to him.
“I think I appreciate the student
Honor System more than anything
about Washington and Lee,” he says.
“And the intellectual freedom that
has existed here is another striking
point for which I am grateful.”

He and Mrs. Dickey will retire
from their campus home to a story
and a half Cape Cod-style home that
is in its final stages of construction
here.

 

RES IPSA LOQUITUR

(Continued from page 2)
again on the same. charge.”)

“Well, old man, remember that
active, non-apathetic, super-charged
political campaign we had last week.
Lots of fun, by the way, and you
ran a good race. But, back to brass
tacks, as they say: You—to get
down to particulars—implied that I
stole a platform plank. As you knew
of this violation, but didn’t report
it, you’re guilty. Of course, if we
wanted to, we could get you for
stealing a little yourself, but there is
no sense in making this thing em-
barrassing for either of us. So long,
old man, good luck somewhere else.”

(Accused, blushing, exits toward
an apathetic campus somewhere in
the mid-west, saying, “What a Sys-
tem.”)

 

 

 

THE DUTCH INN

For Reservation Call
MRS. KATHERINE ADAMS
HO 3-3433

 

 

 

 

It’s Good usiness
To Do usiness
with IERER’S

PHARMACY

 

 

 

 

——

 

TETLOW
TV Service

221 S. Main HO 3-2841

 

 

 

 

 

*Dodge and Dodge Dart
and Lancer
America’s First Fine

ECONOMY CAR
*

Rockbridge Motor Co.
INC.

Phone HObart 3-3146

Here’s one filter cigarette that’s really different!

The difference is this: Tareyton’s Dual Filter gives you a
unique inner filter of ACTIVATED CHARCOAL, definitely proved to
make the taste of a cigarette mild and smooth. It works together with
a pure white outer filter—to balance the flavor elements in the smoke.

Tareyton delivers—and you enjoy—the best taste of the best tobaccos.

put rurerLAVEYLON

 

News Briefs

Four Students Tapped
For Order Of Coif |

Four law school seniors have been |
chosen for membership in the Order |
of the Coif, an academic legal fra-
ternity, an organization similar to
Phi Beta Kappa. |

The four selected are Robert L. |
Gilliam, Nicholas Rodriguez, Joel E. |
Kocen, and John Page Garrett. |
Judge Prettyman, this year’s Tucker |
Law Lecturer, ha salso been ini-|
tiated as an honorary member. The |
students will be initiated Saturday |
in a Law School ceremony. A lunch-
eon in honor of the new members
will follow.

Compositions To Be Played

The first performance of a new)
composition by Robert Stewart, asso-
ciate professor of fine arts at Wash-
ington and Lee University, will be
featured in a program here Monday,
May 1, by the Lywen String Trio
of Washington, D.C.

The program will be presented in
Lee Chapel at 8 p.m. under the
sponsorship of the Washington and
Lee Concert Guild.

Members of the trio are all first
chair players in the National Sym-
phony Orchestra of Washington.
They are Werner Lywen, violin,
Richard Parnas, viola; and John
Martin, cello.

Mr. Stewart’s composition is “Trio
No. 3 for Violin, Viola, Cello; A
Triptych.” The program will also
include “Trio for Violin, Viola, Cello
in E-Flat Major, Op. 3” by Bee-
thoven and Mozart’s “Divertimento
for Violin, Viola, Cello, in E-Flat
Major, K. 563.”

Dr. Barritt At Conference

Dr. C. Westbrook Barritt, associate
professor of Romance Languages at
Washington and Lee University, will
attend the 14th University of Ken-
tucky Foreign Language Conference
in Lexington, Ky., on April 28-29.

Dr. Barritt, a scholar of linguistic
science, will present a paper en-
titled “The Writing of Allophones”
to the linguistic section of the con-
ference.

On May 4-5, Dr. Barritt will at-
tend a conference of linguists in
Washington, D.C., sponsored by the

 

Foreign Service Institute.

  
  
 
  

iMyers To Go To London

Dr. Edward D. Myers will resign
his position as professor and head
of the Department of Philosophy at
Washington and Lee to become cul-
tural attache at the American Em-

| bassy in London, President Fred C.

Cole announced today.

Dr. Myers, 53, will assume his du-
ties in London on July 7. He took
the foreign service officer’s oath in
Washington on April 17.

The new post is the second such
assignment Dr. Myers has held since
1958, when he was granted two
years leave of absence from Wash-
ington and Lee to serve as cultural
attache at the American Embassy
in Bonn, West Germany.

Dr. Myers is a native of Martins-

| ville, and served as dean and pro-

fessor of humanities at Roanoke
College from 1945 to 1949, before
joining the Washington and Lee
faculty. He is a graduate of Roa-
noke College and received his ad-
vanced degrees at Princeton.

An energetic scholar, Dr. Myers
is author of Education in the Per-
spective of History. He also collabo-
rated with noted British historian
Arnold J. Toynbee in the prepara-
tion of a gazetteer volume for use
with Toynbee’s ten-volume master-
work, A Study of History.

Phillips Articles Published

Two digests of articles written by
Dr. Charles F. Phillips, Jr., assist-
ant professor of economics at Wash-
ington and Lee University, have

been published recently, one of
them in Europe.
An article entitled “Collective

Bargaining,” which appeared in the
January, 1961, Issue of Office Execu-
tive, a monthly publication of the
National Office Management Asso-
ciation, was published in The Execu-
tive, a monthly publication of the
Harvard University Graduate School
of Business Administration contain-
ing abstracts of current literature of
interest to business management.

An article which appeared in the
November 1960 issue of Land Eco-
nomics, published quarterly by the
University of Wisconsin, entitled
“The Competitive Potential of Syn-
thetic Rubber” was published in
Mercurio, a monthly publication of
the Institute of Economic Research
at the University of Rome, Italy.

‘Tareyton delivers the flavor...

 

“Pure white
outer filter

ACTIVATED
CHARCOAL

inner filter

Product of The American Kbaceo Company
“Slee ia our middle name’ © A. T. Co
COMPLETE LIST OF SIPA AWARDS ON PAGE 3...

SPECIAL SIPA

 

Editon

Washington and Lee Semi-Weekly Newspaper

SPECIAL SIPA

Che Ring-tum Phi

Edition

 

Volume LXI

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA, APRIL 29, 1961

52-A

 

Four Publications Win Scholas

 

 

tic Press Awards

 

Shumate Elected President At SIPA Convention

By ROY GOODWIN
Editor

William Louis (Mo) Shu-
mate, of Orange County High
School in Orange, Va., was
elected president at the 32nd

annual SIPA Convention this
afternoon.

Shumate will serve as SIPA pres-
ident until the next time the Con-
vention meets, in 1962.

Returns from the polls, which
closed at noon, indicated early this
morning that Shumate was the ob-
vious winner.

Running second to Shumate in the
balloting was Harry Nurkin, of Dur-
ham High School, Durham, N. C.

Shumate, a senior at Orange High,
will attend Woodberry Forest School
in Orange on a full scholarship dur-
ing the 1961-62 term. He plans to
attend Hampden-Sydney College.

As editor of Hoofprints this year,
Shumate was president of the Math
Club, a member of the National
Honor Society, and a member of the
varsity baseball, basketball, and foot-
ball teams. He was co-captain of
the varsity basketball team this year.

During his sophomore year at
Orange High, he was elected presi-
dent of his class.

Nurkin, a 17-year-old student at
Durham High School, will be editor
of Hi-Rocket next year.

A member of Quill and Scroll, he
will be a member of the student
council next year. He is an honor
roll student.

Finishing third in the balloting
was John Hoover, of Elkview High
School, Elkview, W. Va. He was
trailed by Edward Lee Lucas, of
duPont High School, Louisville, Ky.

Finishing fifth was Johnny David-
son of Bristol, Va. Fig Newton re-
ceived six votes in the balloting.

Final Results

Shumate
Nurkin
Hoover

 

 

Maj. Savedge Is Chairman

Major C. E. Savedge of Augusta
Military Academy, Fort Defiance,
Va., was elected chairman of the
Faculty Advisory Committee for
1961-62 at the advisors luncheon
yesterday afternoon.

Major Savedge succeeds Mrs. Carl-
ton Drewry, of Jefferson Senior
High School, Roanoke.

‘Home Edition’ Serves Both School And Community) ,

The most complete daily news
source in Rockbridge County and
the largest radio news staff in the
State of Virginia—this is Washing-
ton and Lee University’s Home Edi-
tion.

Home Edition is a unique combi-

 

Presidential candidates, left to right, Hoover, Nurkin,
Davidson, Luces and Shumate.

 

March 1 this year marked the
anniversary of the first full year of
broadcasting by the latest addition
to W&L’s radio and television ac-
tivities, Radio Washington and Lee.

Broadcasting every Monday
through Friday night from the Jour-
nalism Department studios from 8:05
to 9:00, it is the final result of
thinking among both students and
faculty members for some time that
radio activities on campus should be
expanded in this general direction.

Radio Washington and Lee can
trace its origin back to a program
called “Kaleidoscope,” still heard as
part of the Radio W&L lineup,
which was begun back in 1956 by a
man who was then a Washington and
Lee student and now a professor in
the Journalism Department, Mr.
John K. Jennings.

From its formal beginnings, just
over a year ago, Radio Washington
and Lee has offered a variety of
musical and other types of en-
tertainment to cover almost every
aspect of the listener’s taste.

Monday’s program, “Pro Musica,”
offers the best in classical music, and

 

from Lynchburg, Va.

five nights a week, it is the pri-
| mary source for local news for the
area citizens. It often beats the two
county weekly newspapers by sev-
eral days in breaking a story.

§
| €

 

nation of a classroom laboratory and| ‘iJ
an extra-curricular activity. The| |
nightly 15-minute news show covers | |
international, national, sports, state |
and local news, and is the last news |
program of the evening carried by
WREL.

Local news is covered by mem-
bers of Washington and Lee’s Jour-
nalism Department with each stu-
dent covering a “beat” for two se-| |
mesters while attending the Univer-
sity. Other stories arrive by As-
sociated Press teletype.

All stories for the show are re-
written by members of each of the |
five nightly staffs in order to pro-|/|
duce a program of sound format | #*
and consistent style. The more than |
twenty members of the Home Edi-
tion staff often find themselves cov- |
ering a late breaking story, tape re-| |
cording Radio Moscow for “the other
side of the story,” or accompanying |
a student on “beats” in order to get |
an on-the-spot-report on a_ tape
recorder.

 

‘Radio W&L’ Celebrates Successful Y ear;
Top-N otch Programs Get Much Response

“Concert” follows on Tuesday
nights with music of a somewhat less
serious nature in providing the type
sounds usually classified as semi-
classical. “Concert’s” producer is
Steve Guild, a sophomore from
Oklahoma City, Okla.

Moving more toward the theme of
informality, Wednesday night’s “Pat-
terns” offers a combination of popu-
lar music, in the traditional, blend-
ed with the more popular type jazz,
with a touch of contemporary fun-
ny men like Bob Newhart, Jonathan
Winters, and others. A senior from
Fort Worth, Tex., Harvey Allen is
the show’s producer.

Radio W&L’s old timer, “Kaleido-
scope,” comes to life every Thurs-
day night, presenting everything
from a strictly documentary type
program to radio plays or comic
take-offs on such network programs
as “Monitor.” Senior Bob Holley of
Moorestown, New Jersey, is the
producer.

Getting back to the strictly musi-
cal side, the week of programs is
concluded every Friday night with
“Jazz Echoes,” featuring all kinds

is produced by Pete Lynn, a junior | of jazz, including modern, progres-

(Continued on page 4)

David Goller, senior journalism) ler supervises the five nightly staffs,
|each of which has its own Senior
Editor, and is composed of three to
five members.

Home Edition also broadcasts a

student from Martinsville, Va., is
Director of Home Edition and serves
as City Editor for the students
working on classroom “beats.” Gol-

     

 

Girl With Curly Hair
Baffles SIPA Delegates
In Current Events Quiz

Frieda, the girl with naturally
curly hair and Charles Halleck came
in for some amusing word play on
the SIPA current events quiz this
year.

Only two of the SIPA students
correctly identified Frieda, but those
who attempted answers and failed
came up with some naturally con-
cieved witicisms.

Hugh Moore, of McCallie High
School, Chattanooga, Tenn., cap-
tured top honors in the quiz yes-
terday. He won with a score of
90—the highest ever recorded.

The little girl of the comic page
was variously described as an ani-
mal given to Caroline Kennedy, a
horse, a Russian dog orbited around
the world, the name of the year’s
best play and Kennedy’s physician.

And Dirksen and Halleck, who
have acquired the team name of
Ev and Charlie as a result of a
recent series of TV interviews, turn-
ed up as comic strip characters, TV
stars and a radio program. But the
strangest description of the two Con-
gressmen was an elaborate answer
that placed the two as the creators
and performers in the “Fibber Mc-
Gee and Molly Show” on old-time
radio. Ev, the answer noted, played
the part of Molly, and died recently.
Former Secretary of Labor James
P. Mitchell turned up as the movie
(Continued on page 4)

 

‘Chatterbox’ Wins Virginia Prize

By BOB

DIEHL

SIPA Edition Managing Editor
The Chatterbox of George Washington High School, Dan-

ville, Va., today was named winner of the 13th annual Scho-
lastic Press Award of the Virginia Press Association.

The award citation, presented at the SIPA convention
luncheon in Doremus Gymnasium, praised The Chatterbox

“For the completeness of its school®
and community coverage, the ex-
cellence of its presentation and its
high journalistic standards.”

Winners of the other three state
scholastic press awards presented
today were the Wildcat, New Han-
over High School, Wilmington, N.
C.; the Pequonian, Elkview High
School, Elkview, W. Va., and The
Yellow Jacket, Boys High School,
Anderson, S.C.

The Wildcat
annual North

was given the llth
Carolina Scholastic

Press Award sponsored by the
Winston-Salem Journal and Senti-
nel,

The award cites the Wildcat for
“continuing improvement in every
phase of scholastic journalism; the
completeness of coverage of its ob-
jectives, its bold and impressive
makeup, and its service to school
and community.”

The Pequonian was awarded the
fifth annual West Virginia Scholas-
tic Press Award “For its journalistic
service to school and community, its
improvement in makeup by bolder
use of pictures and headlines, and
its editorial aims.”

 

 

This award is sponsored by the
Charleston Press Club.

The Yellow Jacket was presented
with the David A. Tillinghast Award
for the South Carolina Scholastic
Press.

This award, the second annual
presentation by the Greenville
News-Piedmont, was given The Yel-
low Jacket “Because of its influence
as a unifying factor in a complex
school population, the effective edi-
torial presentation, recognition of
high scholastic purpose and the ex-
cellence of its coverage.”

Complete List on Page 3

Fourteen other publications and
a radio program have received SIPA
trophy awards.

The fifteen trophy winners copped
the awards from a field of more
than 1,000 entries. SIPA officials said
the trophies are presented to only
the “top” publications entered in
the competition each year.

Six newspapers, six yearbooks, two
magazines and the radio program
comprise the list of trophy winners.

See page 3 for a complete list of
awards.

 

By BOB HOLLEY

Special Staff Reporter

The thirty-second convention of |
the Southern Interscholastic Press
Association at Lexington heard three
special speakers in general session.
The first to speak was author
James P. Warburg, who gave an|

 

of the
He praised the Kennedy administra-
tion for overcoming the “Neanderthal |
coalition” of conservative democrats |
and Republicans in Congress. He!
stated that Kennedy “has shown |
both tact and skill in manipulating |
the levers of power without com-|
promising his basic positions.”

hower administration for looking |

. . |
“upon neutralism in the cold war |
as ‘immoral’ .. .”

 

 

He particularly criticized the pol-

address on “The First Three Months}; =
Kennedy Administration.”| ©

Warburg condemned the Eisen-| ;

 

Since Home Edition is on the air| Virginia’s largest election newsstaff, Home Edition reporters, compiling and computing returns. |

icy in Laos as causing an unpopular
regime

to establish itself with

 

 

&

   

JAMES WARBURG

 

weekly editorial each Friday night,|

and special editorials when the need
arises. An editorial board composed |
of Goller, the five Senior Editors, |
and one assistant Senior

weekly editorial.

Goller said he is every proud of |
the way members of the board have |
spent extra time in order to give}
Home Edition strong, factual edi-
torials. A strict separation of news
and editorial opinion is maintained
at all times.

Home Edition also broadcasts many | |
special shows. Members of the Home|‘

Edition staff personally covered
President Eisenhower’s visit
Staunton and the then presidential
candidate John F. Kennedy’s visit
to Roanoke during the presidential
campaign. Tape recording were made |
of the two men’s speeches and half-
hour shows broadcast on the events. |
Segments of the tapes were also
used on the regular Home Edition |
news programs.

 

On election night all members for
the five nightly staffs combined to
take over election coverage for |
WREL. From 7 p.m. to almost 3 a.m.

the “largest radio news staff in Vir-| >

ginia” gave Rockbridge County citi-

(Continued on page 4)

Editor | |
meets each Tuesday to plan the) |

to ||

Appearance Of Three Speakers Sparks 32nd SIPA

American aid as a military dictator-
ship.

On Friday afternoon, the delegates
were treated to an exhibition of an
artist’s skill by Jack Mendelsohn,
syndicated cartoonist of Jacky’s
Diary.

A professional cartoonist since he
was sixteen, Mendelsohn has tried
to capture in this his latest creation
the child’s eye view of the world. He
feels that with this format he can
treat “things that are as a general
rule taboo in a newspaper.”

His object, he says, is not to
sneak in by the back door, but
rather to poke innocent fun at
some of the things of the world that
are strange and deserve a_ spoof.

(Continued on page 4)

3
;
i
|
4
i

  
    
   

JACK MENDELSOHN

* 3
®

CLIFFORD DOWDEY
Page 2

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

$250,000 To Go For J- -School Renovation

Reid Hall To

The end is in sight for the major
problem that has been facing the
Washington and Lee University De-
partment of Journalism and Com-
munications since it was founded
here by Robert E. Lee a little less
than 100 years ago.

One of the relatively few depart-
ments of its type to be fully ac-
credited by the American Council
of Education for Journalism, W&L
is rated in competition with the best
and largest schools of Journalism
throughout the country, but suffers
considerably from lack of space, es-
pecially for many “laboratory”
needs.

The University, however, is cur-
rently holding a $2,000,000 fund rais-
ing campaign to improve present fa-
cilities and for the construction
of new buildings. Approximately
$250,000 of the money to be raised in
this year-long campaign will be used
for the improvement of the journal-
ism facilities.

Many of the 20 journalism courses
offered here have “laboratory”
needs: professional city and wire
rooms; a better radio broadcasting
studio (and eventually television);
photographic darkrooms for class
use; as well as the usual classrooms,
faculty offices, library and adminis-
trative space.

The department of journalism here
was the first college-level instruc-

 

Be Remodeled

tion of its type offered anywhere in
the world. In addition to its regular
curriculum the department also con-
ducts certain major external enter-
prises and services to the news-
paper and broadcasting professions.

The Southern Interscholastic Press
Association was founded here in
1925 and an SIPA Convention is held
annually on the W&L campus. The
department has also been charged
by the Alfred duPont Awards Foun-
dation with supervision in the tele-
communications field.

For the many-faceted program, the

faculty in journalism does the best} |

it can with improvised quarters
scattered among three buildings. The
department has a “makeshift” city

room, no audio-visual room for the| }

course which make large use of films
and slides, only partial broadcast-
ing facilities, not enough offices for
the faculty, and a lack of storage
space.

The journalism side of the ex-
pansion plans calls for a remodeling
of the present Reid Hall for both
journalism and _pre-engineering.
This is to be a complete rebuilding
of the interior for the sake of more
flexible arrangement of rooms and
elimination of the present wasted
space in the middle of the building.
The ground floor will be devoted
largely to the Journalism Laboratory
Press, while the upper floors will

 

New journalism facilities to be in Reid Hall

contain a regular newspaper city
room and wire room, broadeasting
room, photographic darkrooms, as
well as conventional classrooms and
offices.

O. W. Riegel, head of the depart-
ment since 1930, envisions the pro-

 

ject as a “communications arts”
building bringing under one roof the
following activities and facilities:

1) Classrooms and offices for basic
instruction and research programs
related to the mass media, public
opinion and advertising.

 

2) Auxiliary professional facili-
ties, including news, printing, adver-
tising and film laboratories, wire
room, radio and television studios
and photographic darkrooms.

3) Accommodations for profes-
sional seminars.

4) Offices for external service fun-

tions such as administration of the]:

duPont radio-television awards and
the SIPA.

5) Specialized library and reading

A Year-Round Operation

 

John Jennings
Is Exec. Director

For 1961 SIPA

rooms, and archives for audio-visual] |

materials.

6) Offices for student publications,
such as the Southern Collegian, The
Ring-tum Phi, and the Calyx.

Plans for the improvement cam-
paign call for construction to get
underway upon the completion of
new dormitory and science facilities
which are scheduled to be open the
beginning of the 1962-63 school year.

Five professional journalists visited
the campus this year, interviewing
junior and senior journalism majors
for possible positions during the
summer and upon graduation. They
included W. F. Clingman, Jr., per-
sonnel director of the Piedmont
Publishing Co., Winston-Salem, N.
C., Vint Jennings, managing editor
of the Charleston (W. Va.) Daily
Mail, William G. Leverty, assistant
managing editor of the Richmond
Times-Dispatch, and R. K. T. “Kit”
Larson and Cameron Gregory, rep-
resentatives of the personnel depart-
ment of Norfolk Newspapers, Inc.

 

O.W. Riegel, Head Of Journalism Department, Is Propaganda Expert

A familiar sight at SIPA con-
ventions since 1931 is Prof. O. W.
Riegel, Director of the Lee Me-
morial Journalism Foundation and
professor of journalism at W&L.

An authority on psychological
warfare and propaganda, Mr. Riegel
is working on a research project
which he began in Europe three
years ago. Working under the Ful-
bright student and scholar exchange
program’s research grant, he was
studying certain aspects of interna-
tional communications.

 

With his wife and four children,
Mr. Riegel traveled to Paris and
other European capitals to get ma-
terial for his study.

Mr. Riegel has an _ impressive
background of both governmental
and academic experience. Currently,
he is a member of the Executive
Bureau of the International Asso-
ciation for Communications Re-
search, which has its headquarters
in Paris.

Another current activity is mem-
bership in the Executive Reserve

Che Ring-tum Phi
Special SIPA Edition
Member of Virginia Intercollegiate Press Association

 

SIPA—1961

For 32 years, high school journalists have convened at
Washington and Lee University for the annual meeting of the
Southern Interscholastic Press Association. During the two
days the delegates attend lectures, panel discussions, class ses-
sions and short courses, clinics and informal get-togethers to
learn a little more about their hoped-for vocation (or already

elected avocation) , journalism.

The SIPA Convention has contributed much to newspaper,
yearbook and magazine standards in secondary schools through-
out the South. Each year the size of the convention has grown
and in a like manner, the improvements in high school journal-
ism in the South have increased.

Two of the primary reasons for having this convention are
these: (1) to provide a meeting place for high school journal-
ists where they can discuss their problems and ideas as well
as get first hand information from distinguished lecturers; (2)
to create through the presentation of annual awards to the top
publications a competition and thus a continual effort to im-

prove publications.

If General Robert E. Lee were alive today, he would be
quite proud of the advances made in college-level journalism
instruction. His “dream” of 1869 was laughed at, but if he

could see the activities of the SIPA, he would definitely be the ||

one to have the last laugh.

Many persons’ efforts have gone into the preparation,
planning, and operation of this year’s convention. The mem-
bers of the Washington and Lee University Department of
Communications, the W&L Chapter of Sigma Delta Chi, na-
tional journalistic society, the members of the W&L Labora-
tory Press, and the Administration of Washington and Lee
University have all had their share in this year’s SIPA Conven-

tion.

The Ring-tum Phi hopes that these efforts have not fallen
on deaf ears, and that the delegates to the 32nd SIPA Conven-
tion have gained much experience and knowledge from this

meeting.

As the delegates to this convention return to their respec-
tive homes and schools, we would like to remind them that
many persons have become inspired to go on into journalism
from conventions such as this one. We hope that many of you
will become inspired to continue your efforts in journalism,
and that some of you will even become professional journalists.

Much of the success of this convention lies in the attitude
of the many people who have had a part in its operation. We
welcome you to SIPA, and hope that you have gained from
it. This is our hope—and our plea.

—R. R. G.

of the U.S. Information Agency,
which will carry on the USIA’s work
in case of emergency.

He is the author of Mobilizing for
Chaos, (1934), a standard wrok in
psychological warfare and propa-
ganda. He has also written The Story
of the NWR Propaganda, Crown of
Glory, and The Life of James J.
Stang, in addition to book chapters
and many articles for periodicals.

Mr. Riegel came to W&L in 1930,
and became director of the Lee Me-
morial Journalism Foundation in
1934. Before coming to W&L, he had
been an English instructor at Dart-
mouth. He holds degrees from Wis-
consin and Columbia.

During World War II, Mr. Riegel
served three years with the Office
of War Information. In 1950 he spent
three months in West Germany for
the State Department, making a
special study of public opinion re-
search and training.

 

In 1951 he worked in Europe un-
der the auspices of the Woodrow

Wilson School of Public and Inter-
national Affairs at Princeton.

Previous work brought him the
first research granted by Sigma
Delta Chi in 1945.

A native of Reading, Pa. Mr.
Riegel had newspaper experience in

the Neenah, Wic. Daily News, the|
Reading Tribune, the New York).
Lancaster} __
News-Journal. He also has served| _

Daily News, and the

as a member of the editorial board of
Public Opinion Quarterly.
At W&L Prof. Riegel is the cura-

tor of the duPont Foundation, and|
teaches courses in law of the press, |:

psy-war and propaganda, audio vis-
ual media, public relations, and the
editorial.

 

RENSHAW IS PHOTOGRAPHER
Photographs in todays issue of the

Ring-tum Phi are the work of staff) ,

photographer Clarence Renshaw.
Page 4 is almost entirely devoted to
photos of the 1961 SIPA Convention.

 

JOHN K. JENNINGS

Mr. John K. Jennings, an instruc-
tor in journalism at W&L, has the
busy job of Executive Director of
SIPA. This position is a year-round
operation since the planning for an
SIPA convention must start as soon
as the previous year’s activity is
finished.

The first contacts with this year’s
delegates got underway last No-
vember when 2,500 postcards were
mailed to interested people. The big
mailing came in January, when reg-
istration forms, bulletins, and an-

*|nouncements for the State Scholas-
: tic Press Association Awards were
-| sent out.

Meanwhile, the Advisory Com-

»| mittee was corresponding and ex-
_| changing ideas. Several secretaries

| handled the voluminous mail which

O. W. RIEGEL
Familiar Face
At SIPA

 

The special SIPA edition of the
Ring-tum Phi and the official ac-
tivities program of the convention
were both printed in a small shop
on the Washington and Lee campus
under the direction of C. Harold
Lauck, “America’s Baskerville Print-
er.”

Mr. Lauck received the title
“America’s Baskerville Printer,” sev-
eral years ago as a result of national
recognition for his skillful use of
Baskerville type.

Since his middle teens, he has
been connected with the printing
business, and next year he will be-

 

C. HAROLD LAUCK

gin his 30th year at Washington and
Lee.

Assisting Mr. Lauck are Lynwood
Pullen, Edward Backus, Edwin Wal-
ker and Charles Perfetti. This five-
man printing team is responsible
not only for the printing of the
Ring-tum Phi but most of W&L’s
campus publications, posters and

 

pamphlets.

W&L Journalism Lab Press
Headed By C. Harold Lauck

 

Following an issue of the W&L

newspaper through the print shop,
the first person concerned with the
copy is the Lynotype operator, Lyn-
wood Pullen. Often Mr. Pullen must
double in his duties and act as proof
reader and copy editor.

Next, the type goes to Edward
Backus, the print shop’s chief com-
positor. Mr. Backus formerly ran
his own print shop in Buena Vista
and annually teaches a newspaper
short course to SIPA delegates.

Edwin Walker is probably the most
versatile man in the shop. In addi-
tion to assisting Mr. Backus, he
operates the shop’s two smaller
presses, cast plates for pictures and
newspaper advertisements, and oper-
ates the machine which folds news-
papers after they come off the press.

The completed forms, ready for
printing, go to pressman Charlie
Perfetti, a graduate of Rochester
Institute of Technology School of
Printing.

Mr. Lauck’s work is not confined
only to the shop. He conducts classes
for the journalism foundation, teach-
ing journalism students the rudi-
ments of type-setting and printing,
and explaning the various machines
used in production of printed mater-
ials.

The list of awards won by Mr.|;

Lauck’s typography efforts is an im-
pressive one. In the Inland Printer,
the printing industry’s leading trade
journal, Mr. Lauck has been fea-
tured as one of the nation’s top-flight
craftsmen.

He is a past president of the In- ‘

ternational Graphic Arts Education
Association and several years ago
was awarded a Distinguished Serv-
ice Citation at the annual SIPA
awards banquet “in recognition of
outstanding accomplishments in the
field of scholastic publishing and in
acknowledgement of devotion and
effective service to journalism, to
education, and to youth.”

Only last year Mr. Lauck received
the honor of being elected a fellow
of the Royal Society of Arts and

 

Crafts in London.

Paxton Davis Is 1961
Short Courses Director;
Joined Faculty in 1953

Paxton Davis, associate professor
of journalism at W&L, is serving
as director of SIPA’s short courses
again this year.

A member of the journalism facul-
ty since 1953, Davis is the author of
the novel Two Soldiers, and has also
published several short stores and
novel exceprts.

In 1956 Davis was a Fellow in
Fiction of the Bread Loaf Writers
Conference, a literary organization
in Vermont which stimulates the
exchange of ideas between novelists
and prospective writers.

Mr. Davis had four years of news-
paper experience on the Winston-
Salem Journal and Sentinel, and the

 

PAXTON DAVIS

Richmond Times-Dispatch before
taking his present position on the
W2&L faculty. In 1951, he was award-
ed a first place award for interpre-
tative reporting by the Virginia Press
Association. He also received the
Shenandoah Award for Distin-
guished writing, in 1956.
(Continued on page 4)

 

flowed into the Journalism Depart-
ment.
When the entry forms and publica-

_| tions arrived, they were classified
-|and judged, and certificates were

made for the winners.

This is the second year Jennings
has served as the Executive Direc-
tor of SIPA. He also helped with
convention when he was a student
at W&L.

“The delegates can profit the most
from a free exchange of advise
among themselves,” he stated. “This
convention is a good place to work
out problems, because most prob-
lems that arise in school publica-
tions aren’t unique to any one
school.”

To prospective journalists, he
warns: “Too many people in high
school who want to be journalists
think only of writing. They have to
read—read everything they can get
their hands on.” From reading, he
added, comes the store of background
knowledge which is vital to good re-
porting.

“Journalists have to be interested
in people,” he continued, “the peo-
ple they are reaching as well as
the people who are their sources.

“They must know how, and be
willing, to communicate to these
people, not just set before them a
series of facts.”

1956 Graduate of W&L

Jennings, a 1956 journalism grad-
uate of W&L, has worked with
WDBJ-TV in Roanoke, and the
Armed Forces radio while he was in
the Army. Among his Armed Forces
radio assignments were the Geneva
nuclear talks, the Brussels World
Fair, an interview with Mikoyan,
and the Council of Europe meeting.

He was a senior editor of Home
Edition and executive producer of
Kaleidoscope while a _ student at
W&L. He became an instructor and
director of the Communications Lab-
atory, Lee Journalism Foundation, in
1959,

Mr. Jennings is a native of
Fayetteville, Tennessee. His hobbies
are Little Theatre work and pho-
tography.

CheRing-tum Phi
SPECIAL SIPA EDITION
Special SIPA Staff:
Se R. Roy Goodwin, II

Managing Editor............ Robert Diehl

Reporting Staff....Robert O’Brien,
Charles Via, Paul Plawin, Wil-
liam Martin, Richard Kelley,
Robert Holley, Robert Hol-
land, Harvey Allen, Clarence
Renshaw, Robert Diehl and
David Goller.

The SIPA Edition of the Ring-
tum Phi is published at the Wash-
ington and Lee University Journal-
ism Laboratory Press located in
Lexington, Virginia.

Sigma Delta Chi, national journal-
istic society, and the staff of the
Washington and Lee Department of
Communications are responsible for
the production of this newspaper.

 

 

 

cee: Me

 
 

THE RING-TUM PHI

Page 3

 

SIX NEWSPAPERS, SIX YEARBOOKS, TWO MAGAZINES, ONE RADIO PROGRAM RECEIVE SIPA TROPHIES

 

15 Publications Receive Trophy Awards

A total of 15 publications
have received SIPA trophy
awards, it was announced to-
day.

Officials for the 1961 SIPA

Convention said today that of
the more than 1,101 entries, only
15 were named as the “top” publi-
cations.

Receiving trophy awards were
The Eagle, of East Mecklenburg
High School, Charlotte, N. C.; The
Sentry, Yorktown High School, Arl-
ington, Va.; The Pepergram, Cul-
peper High School, Culpeper, Va.;
The Anchor, Floyd High School,
Floyd, Va.; The Cat’s Purr, Stovall
High School, Stovall, N. C.; True
Relations, Varina High School, Rich-
mond.

In the Yearbook Group the fol-
lowing took trophy awards:

Blue and Gray, Washington-Lee
High School, Arlington, Va.; The
Historian, Douglas Freeman High
School, Richmond; The Retrospect,
Hartsville High School, Hartsville,
S. C.; The Colonnade, Culpeper
County High School, Culpeper, Va.;
The Peaks, Bedford High School,
Bedford, Va.; The Duke, Cumberland
High School, Cumberland, Md.

Magazine awards went to Acorn,
Jefferson Sr. High School, Roanoke;
Tempo, George Mason Jr.-Sr. High
School, Falls Church, Va.

The trophy winner for Radio went
to the Wolverine Turntable, of An-
drew Lewis High School, Salem, Va.

Ww Ww

NEWSPAPERS, GROUP I
(Enrollments 1101 or more)

Trophy Winner
The Eagle, East Mecklenburg High
School, Charlotte, N. C.

First Place Award Group

Sentinel, Fort Hill High School,
Cumberland, Md.

Communique, Manchester High
School, Richmond, Va.

Jeffersonian, Thomas Jefferson High
School, Richmond, Va.

Honor Award Group

Fair Facts, Fairfax High School,
Fairfax, Va.

The Highlander, McLean
School, McLean, Va.

Crossed Sabres, Washington-Lee
High School, Arlington, Va.

Greenville High News, Greenville
High School, Greenville, S. C.

The Hi-Rocket, Durham High
School, Durham, N. C.

The Wildcat, New Hanover High
School, Wilmington, N. C.

The Book Strap, Charleston High
School, Charleston, W. Va.

Litton Blast, Isaac Litton High
School, Nashville, Tenn.

Beacon, Woodrow Wilson High
School, Washington, D.C.

High

Achievement Award Group

The Student, Woodrow Wilson High
High School, Portsmouth, Va.

The Earle, Warwick High School,
Newport News, Va.

B-C Highlights, Brookland-Cayce
High School, Cayce, S. C.

The Scribbler, Spartanburg, High
School, Spartanburg, N. C.

Jefferson News, Jefferson Senior
High School, Roanoke, Va.

Crimson-Record, duPont Manual
High School, Louisville, Ky.

The Star, Halifax High School, South
Boston, Va.

The Monocle, John Marshall High
School, Richmond, Va.

The Chatterbox, George Washington
High School, Danville, Va.

Tiger Rag, Groverton High School,
Alexandria, Va.

The Simmerings, St. Albans High
School, St. Albans, W. Va.

Wood Post, .James Wood High
School, Winchester, Va.

The Spectator, Granby High School,
Norfolk, Va.

The High Times, E. C. Glass High
School, Lynchburg, Va.

Jaguar Journal, Falls Church High
School, Falls Church, Va.

A. L. Spokesman, Andrew Lewis
High School, Salem, Va.

Salvo, Francis C. Hammond High
School, Alexandria, Va.

A-Blast, Annandale High School,
Annandale, Va.

Krabba Highlight, Hampton High
School, Hampton, Va.

The Albemarle Highlight, Albemarle
High School, Charlottesville, Va.
Blue Star, Avondale High School,

Atlanta, Ga.
The Wythe Ledger, George Wythe
High School, Richmond, Va.

NEWSPAPERS, GROUP II
(Enrollment 651 to 1100)

Trophy Winner

The Sentry, Yorktown High School,
Arlington, Va.

 

First Place Award Group

The Commentator, Douglas Freeman
High School, Richmond, Va.

The Shield, Valley High School,
Lonaconing, Md.

The Loudoun’ Raider, Loudoun
High School, Leesburg, Va.

The Hickory Twig, Hickory High
School, Hickory, N. C.

The Pequonian, Elkview High
School, Elkview, W. Va.

The Panther Press, DuPont High
School, Belle, W. Va.

The PHS Review, Petersburg High
School, Petersburg, Va.

Honor Award Group

Green Lights, Julius H. Rose High
School, Greenville, N. C.

The Sabre, William Fleming High
School, Roanoke, Va.

The Highland Fling, Highland

Springs High School, Highland
Springs, Va.
The Barker, Martinsville High

School, Martinsville, Va.

The Yellow Jacket, Anderson Boys
High School, Anderson, S. C.

Em Vee Hi, Mt. Vernon High School,
Alexandria, Va.

The Blackbird, Rocky Mount Senior
High School, Rocky Mount, Va.
The Hi-Life, Union High School,
Union, S. C.

The Quill, Thomas Dale High School,
Chester, Va.

Hi-News, Edmunds High School,
Sumter, S. C.

Achievement Award Group

The Crest, Northern High School,
Durham, N. C.

The Pioneer Post, East Bank High
School, East Bank, W. Va.

The Hilltopper, Rutherford - Spin-
dale High School, Rutherford,
N, €.

Indian Smoke Signal, Stafford High
School, Falmouth, Va.

Franklin Eagle, Franklin County
High School, Rock Mount, Va.

Tomcat, Ashland Senior High School,
Ashland, Ky.

Little Virginian, Virginia High
School, Bristol, Va.

NEWSPAPERS, GROUP Ill
(Enrollments 401 to 650)

Trophy Winner

The Pepergram, Culpeper
School, Culpeper, Va.

First Place Award Group

High Notes, Hartsville High School,
Hartsville, S. C.

Proconian, Chapel Hill High School,
Chapel Hill, N. C.

Mullen Hi-Lights, Mullens High
School, Mullens, W. Va.

Peanut Picker, Suffolk High School,
Suffolk, Va.

Lanetime, Lane High School, Char-
lottesville, Va.

Tornado, McCallie School, Chatta-
nooga, Tenn.

The Scroll, Drewry Mason High
School, Ridgeway, Va.

The Hornet, Hapeville High School,
Hapeville, Ga.

High

Honor Award Group

The Hoofprints, Orange High School,
Orange, Va.

Maroon & White, Tennessee High
School, Bristol, Tenn.

Ben Growl, Bassett High School,
Bassett, Va.

The Acorn, Radford High School,
Radford, Va.

Hill Topics, Rock Hill Aacademy,
Charlottesville, Va.

The Spark, Patrick Henry High
School, Ashland, Va.

Mountaineer, Lenoir High School,
Lenoir, N. C.

The Southerner, Lee-Davis High
School, Ellerson, Va.

Green & White Echo, Magnolia High
School, Matewan, W. Va.

The Tattle Tale, Blacksburg High
School, Blacksburg, Va.

The Blarion, James Blair High
School, Williamsburg, Va.

The Bulldog, Henderson High School,
Henderson, N. C.

Demon Highlights, Christiansburg
High School, Christiansburg, Va.

The Byrd Echo, William Byrd High
High School, Vinton, Va.

The Marionette, Marion High School,
Marion, N. C.

Achievement Award Group

Kablegram, Staunton Military Aca-
demy, Staunton, Va.

The Lasso, George Mason High
School, Falls Church, Va.

Rocket, Roxboro High School, Rox-
boro, N. C.

Knight Letter, Cave Spring High
School, Roanoke, Va.

Wither-Wane, George Wythe High
School, Wytheville, Va.

The Monitor, Bluestone High School,
Skipwith, Va.

Galax Leaf, Galax High School,
Galax, Va.

Marionette, Marion High School,
Marion, Va.

 

NEWSPAPERS, GROUP IV
(Enrollments 201 to 400)

Trophy Winner
The Anchor, Floyd High School,
Floyd, Va.

First Place Award Group

The Whitmell School Citizen, Whit-
mell High School, Whitmell, Va.

Scarletter, Lexington High School,
Lexington, Va.

Bridge Bulletin, Natural Bridge High
School, Natural Bridge Station,
Va.

The Hustler, Westminister High
School, Westminster, S. C.

Honor Award Group
The Student Prints, Wadesboro High
School, Wadesboro, N. C.
Saltshaker, R. B. Worthy High
School, Saltville, Va.
Green-Briers, Greenbrier Military
School, Lewisburg, W. Va.
Amherite, Amherst County High
School, Amherst, Va.
Hi Times, Honea Path High School,
Honea Path, S. C.
C.Q., Fishburne High School,
Waynesboro, Va.
High

The Chevron, Benedictine
School, Richmond, Va.

The Chat, Chatham High School,

Chatham, Va.

Achievement Award Group

The Buzz, Brosville High School,
Danville, Va.

Stoco Smoke Signals, Stoco High
School, Coal City, W. Va.

The Pig’s Tale, Smithfield High
School, Smithfield, Va.

The Otter’s Lookout, Bedford High
School, Bedford, Va.

Rusty Notes, Rustburg, High School,
Rustburg, Va.

NEWSPAPERS, GROUP V)
(Enrollments 200 or fewer)

Tropliy Winner
The Match, Collegiate Schools Rich-
mond, Va.

First Place Award Group

Crossette, Holy Cross High School,
Lynchburg, Va.

Honor Award Group

Shearings, St. Agnes School, Alex-
andria, Va.

Achievement Award Group
Calland-aire, Callands High School,
Callands, Va.
The Gardner, Spring Garden High
School, Chatham, Va.
The Foxtale, Foxcroft, Middleburg,
Va.

NEWSPAPERS, GROUP DS
(Non-Letterpress)
(Enrollments less than 300)

Trophy Winner
The Cat’s Purr, Stovall High School,
Stovall, N. C.

First Place Award Group

Shoelace, Quantico High School
Quantico, Va.

Trojan Trumpet, Midlothian High
School, Midlothian, Va.

Honor Award Group

The Round-Up, Rich Valley High
School, Saltville, Va.

The Ram’s Horn, Blackstone High
School, Blackstone, Va.

Mountaineer, Clifton Forge High
School, Clifton Forge, Va.

The Wildcat Clarion, Spottswood
High School, Spottswood, Va.

The Gardner, Garden High School,
Oakwood, Va.

The Clipper, Topsail High School,
Hampstead, N. C.

The Dispatcher, Crewe High School,
Crewe, Va.

Vox Ducis, William Campbell High
School, Naruna, Va.

Achievement Award Group
Flashes, Fairfield High School, Fair-
field, Va.
The Informer, North River High
School, Mt. Solon, Va.

NEWSPAPERS, GROUP DL
(Non-Letterpress)
(Enrollments 300 or More)
Trophy Winner
True Relations, Varina High School,

Richmond, Va.

First Place Award Group

Panthianette, Hermitage. High
School, Richmond, Va.
The Blazer, Cedar Grove High

School, Cedar Grove, W. Va.
Roundtable, James River
School, Buchanan, Va.
Trail Blazer, Lebanon High School,
Lebanon, Va.

High

Honor Award Group
The Cub, Campbell High School,
Fairburn, Ga.
Sentinel, Castlewood High School,
Castlewood, Va.
The Voice, Clear Spring High School
Clear Spring, Md.

 

The Colonel, Altavista High School,
Altavista, Va.

Green & Gold, Greensville County
High School, Emporia, Va.

Achievement Award Group
The Rebel, Louisa County High
School, Mineral, Va.
Bow Wow, Brunswick High School,
Lawrenceville, Va.

YEARBOOKS, GROUP I
(Enrollments 1101 or more)

Trophy Winner
Blue and Gray, Washington-Lee
High School, Arlington, Va.

First Place Award Group

Anchor, Francis Hammond High
School, Alexandria, Va.

The Surveyor, Mount Vernon High
School, Alexandria, Va.

Tidings, Anderson Boys High School,
Anderson, S. C.

The Southerner, Southern High
School, Baltimore, Md.

Charlestonian, Charleston High
School, Charleston, W. Va.

The East Wind, East Mecklenburg
High School, Charlotte, N. C.

The Pemican, High Point High
School, High Point, N. C.

The Crest, E. C. Glass High School,
Lynchburg, Va.

The Monticello, Thomas Jefferson
High School, Richmond, Va.

Acorn Annual, Jefferson Sr. High
School, Roanoke, Va.

The Haliscope, Halifax County High
School, South Boston, Va.

Harioverian, New Hanover High
School, Wilmington, N. C.

Honor Award Group

Antenna, Annandale High School,
Annandale, Va.

Bearcat, Brookland - Cayce High
School, Cayce, S. C.

Cavalier, George Washington High
School, Danville, Va.

Fare Fac Sampler, Fairfax High
School, Fairfax, Va.

Nautilus, Greenville High School,
Greenville, S. C.

The Clan, McLean High School, Mc-
Lean, Va.

Littonian, Isaac Litton High School,
Nashville, Tenn.

The Warwick, Warwick High School,
Newport News, Va.

The President, Woodrow Wilson
High School, Portsmouth, Va.

Memoir, Manchester High School,
Richmond, Va.

The Marshallite, John Marshall High
School, Richmond, Va.

Pioneer, Andrew Lewis High School,
Salem, Va.

Krabba, Hampton High School,
Hampton, Va.

Achievement Award Group

Peer, Albermarle High School, Char-
lottesville, Va.
Crimson, duPont Manual High

School, Louisville, Ky.

YEARBOOKS, GROUP II
(Enrollments 701 to 1100)

Trophy Winner
The Historian, Douglas Freeman
High School, Richmond, Va.

First Place Award Group
Hi-Life, Ashland High School, Ash-
land, Ky.
The Highlander, Highland Springs
High School, Highland Springs, Va.
The Animo, Franklin County High
School, Rocky Mount, Va.

Hickory Log, Claremont High
School, Hickory, N. C.
The Southerner, Southern High

School, Durham, N. C.

Honor Award Group

The Colonel, William Fleming High
School, Roanoke, Va.

Hi-Ways, Edmunds High School,
Sumter, S. C.

The Virginian, Virginia High School,
Bristol, Va.

Panthian, Hermitage High School,
Richmond, Va.

The Reflector, Thomas Deal High
School, Chester, Va.

Achievement Award Group

The Trucker, Churchland High
School, Churchland, Va.
The Mavahi, Martinsville
School, Martinsville, Va.
The Skyliner, Rutherfordton-Spin-
dale High School, Rutherfordton,

a, &

YEARBOOKS, GROUP Ill
(Enrollments 501 to 700)

High

Trophy Winner
The Retrospect, Hartsville
School, Hartsville, S. C.

First Place Award Group

Amethyst, Amherst County High
School, Amherst, Va.

Puffs and Patches, Covington High
School, Covington, Va.

The Mustang, George Mason Jr.-Sr.
High School, Falls Church, Va.
Knowledge Knoll, Galax High

School, Galax, Va.

High

 

The Pep Pac, Henderson High
School,, Henderson, N. C.

The Hylander, Marion Senior High
School, Marion, N. C.

Hurricane, Marion High School,
Marion, Va.

The Spartanian, Drewry Mason High
School, Ridgeway, Va.

Accolade, Cave Spring High School,
Roanoke, Va.

Rocket, Roxboro High School, Rox-
boro, N. C.

Black Swan, William Byrd High
School, Vinton, Va.

Echo, George Mason High School,
Wytheville, Va.

Honor Award Group

Timber Tints, John D. Bassett High
School, Bassett, Va.

The Chain, Lane High School, Char-
lottesville, Va.

The Polaris, Northern High School,
Durham, N. C.

The Tornado, Richlands High School,
Richlands, Va.

The Hurricane, Virginia Beach High
School, Virginia Beach, Va.

Achievement Award Group

Memories, Broadway High School,
Broadway, Va.

Indian Legend, Stafford High School,
Falmouth, Va.

The Leeway, Robert E. Lee High
School, Staunton, Va.

The Trapper, Trap Hill High School,
Surveyor, W. Va.

YEARBOOKS, GROUP IV
(Enrollments 351 to 500)

Trophy Winner
The Colonnade, Culpeper County
High School, Culpeper, Va.
First Place Award Group
Leaves of Memory, Park View High
School, South Hill, Va.
The Conferderate, Lee-Davis High
School, Ellerson, Va.
Bearcat, Lenoir High Schol, Lenior,
S. <.

Honor Award Group

The Talon, Clarke County High
School, Berryville, Va.

Kanawhan, James River High School,
Buchanan, Va.

The Trail, Spotsylvania High School,
Spotsylvania, Va.

Hillife, Chapel Hill High School,
Chapel Hill, N. C.

The Shield, Lord Botetourt High
School, Daleville, Va.

The Trojan, Midlothian High School,
Midlothian, Va.

Choo Choo, R. B. Worthy High
School, Saltville, Va.

The Voice, Patrick Henry High
School, Ashland, Va.

The Riparian, Greensville County
High School, Emporia, Va.

Tiger Tales, Wadesboro High School,
Wadesboro, N. C.

Achievement Award Group

Casteltonian, Castlewood High
School, Castlewood, Va.

The Golden Link, Bluestone High
School, Skipwith, Va.

Rebel Roster, Louisia County High
School, Mineral, Va.

Trails, Cedar Grove High School,
Cedar Grove, W. V.

The Bee Hive, James Blair High
School, Williamsburg, Va.

Demon, Christiansburg High School,
Christiansburg, Va.

The Oak Leaf, Radford High School,
Radford, Va.

Rambler, Renan High School, Gret-
na, Va.

The Nuntius, Altavista High School,
Altavista, Va.

YEARBOOKS, GROUP V
(Enrollments 226 to 350

Trophy Winner

The Peaks, Bedford High School,
Bedford, Va.

First Place Award Group

The Fieldcrest, Fieldale High School,
Fieldale, Va.

The General, William Campbell High
School, Naruna, Va.

Alleghanian, Clifton Forge
School, Clifton Forge, Va.

The Admiral, Floyd High School,
Floyd, Va.

High

Honor Award Group

The Chilvalee, Chilhowie
School, Chilhowie, Va.

The Junction, Gretna High School,
Gretna, Va.

Pioneer, Lebanon High School, Leb-
anon, Va.

The Topper, Brosville High School,
Danville, Va.

Bulldog, Brunswick High School,
Lawrenceville, Va.

The Owl, Rustburg High School,
Rusburg, Va.

High

Achievement Award Group
Trailblazer, Clear Spring High Schol,
Clear Spring, Md.
The Demon, Chatham High School,
Chatham, Va.

The Span, Natural Bridge High

 

School, Natural Bridge Station,
_ Va.
The .Garden Echo, Garden High
School, ‘Oakwood, Va.
The Railroader, Grewe High School,
: Crew, Va.

~ YEARBOOKS, GROUP VI
(Enrollments 225 or. fewer)

Trophy Winner
The Duke, Cumberland High School,
Cumberland, Md.
First Place Award Group
The Eagle, Willis High « School,
Willis, Va.
The Trail, William Monroe High
School, Standardsville, Va.
The Ivy, Blackstone High School,
Blackstone Va.

Honor Award Group

Eagle, Climax High School, Chatham,
Va.

The Mirror, Spring Garden High
School, Chatham, Va.

The Mountain Echo, New Castle
High School, New Castle, Va.

Fairhilite, Fairfield High School,
Fairfield, Va.

The Lasso, Rich Valley High School,
Saltville, Va.

The Splash, North River High
School, Mt. Solon, Va.

Achievement Award Group

Spotlight, Spottswood High School,
Spottswood, Va.

Boondocker, Quantico High School,
Quantico, Va.

The Senator, Lewisburg High School
Lewisburg, W. Va.

Pirate, Topsail High School, Hamp-
stead, N. C.

MAGAZINES GROUP I
(Enrollments 1000 or more)

Trophy Winner
Acorn, Jefferson Senior High School,
Roanoke, Va.

First Place Award Group

Oneirata, Groveton High School,
Alexandria, Va.

The Plough, Warwick High School,
Newport News, Va.

Honor Award Group

Fore and Aft, Francis Hammond
High School, Alexandria, Va.

The Cardinal Talent Scout, George
Washington High School, Danville,
Va.

Rebelations, Fairfax
Fairfax, Va.

Bits O’Lit, Greenville High School,
Greenville, S. C.

The Critic, E. C. Glass High School,
Lynchburg, Va.

The Tartan, McLean High School,
McLean, Va.

The Dreamer, Woodrow Wilson High
School, Portsmouth, Va.

The Record, John Marshall High
School, Richmond, Va.

Achievement Award Group
The Eyrie, East Mecklenburg High
School, Charlotte, N. C.
Penman, Hermitage High School,
Richmond, Va.

High School,

MAGAZINES, GROUP II
(Enrollments less than 1000)

Trophy Winner
Tempo, George Mason Jr.-Sr. High
School, Falls Church, Va.

First Place Award Group
Hickory Leaves, Claremont Central
High School, Hickory, N. C.
The Record, Robert E. Lee High
School, Staunton, Va.
The Bumblebee, Lane High School,
Charlottesville, Va.

Honor Award Group
Scimitar, Staunton Military Aca-
demy, Staunton, Virginia.
Bleats, St. Agnes School, Alexandria,
Va.
Clansman, Campbell High School,
Fairburn, Ga.

RADIO

Trophy Winner
Wolverine Turntable, Andrew Lewis
High School, Salem, Va.

Honor Award Group:

Hickory High Speaks, Hickory High
School, Hickory, N. C.

 

SIPA Founded In 1925;
First Meet Held in 1926

One of the most interesting stories
concerning the Southern Interscho-
lastic Press Association is its history.
Founded in 1925, SIPA is sponsored
by the Lee Memorial Journalism
Foundation to extend to high schools
and preparatory schools of the South
the high idealism for Southern
journalism which moved Robert E.
Lee, when he was president of
Washington College (now Washing-
ton and Lee University).

The first convention of SIPA was
held on April 5 and 6, 1926,
 

 

MR. KENNEDY, compared to Gen. Eisenhower, . . .

“RR er gRnNRRERImEnen Tt" one eammataaE,

WASHINGTON AND LEE is nice, but this weather!

   

ADVERTISING CAN make or break a paper-

WHEN YOU crop, just take your thumbnail . ‘

 

 

 

  

 

Amusing Answers Spark Quiz

(Continued from page 1)

star of “The Old Man and the Sea,”
and on another quiz as a price-fixing
GE executive.

Ingmar Bergman’s award-winning
film, “The Virgin Spring” turned up
as a foreign movie “concerning the
morals of rape,” and as an Army
base for missile testing.

And on one paper marked by a
sheath of wrong, but amusing an-

swers, two in particular were tops.
Of the 23rd amendment to the

 

Speakers at Convention
(Continued from page 1)

Mendelsohn’s cartoon is carried by
seventy-six newspapers and_ in
eleven foreign countries. He is an
artist for Mad Magazine as well.

The third speaker of the series,
Mr. Clifford Dowdey of Richmond,
spoke on Saturday morning in Lee
Chapel. His address was about “His-
torical Fiction and History.” Dowdey
is author of Bugles Blow No More,
The Death of a Nation, The Great
Plantation and other works.

 

SIPA Girls’ Opinions Differ On W&L Life

By COUNTRY WILLIE MARTIN
and PLAUSIBLE PAUL PLAWIN

Each year they come, turning the
rolling green lawns into a madhouse
of crinoline, perfume, glaring bright
dresses and wide blinking eyes.

They are the SIPA girls.

They talk about “all the boys” and
fraternity houses and parties and
“all that stuff, you know.” And in
between all this they go to seminars
on how to make advertising dollars
count and how to take yearbook
pictures.

According to the SIPA Handbook
they’re here to learn how to make
next year’s school paper and year-
book more popular with their read-
ers.

Most come here to work,
there are some exceptions.

“We're here to have a party,”
chimed Ruth Clark, Melinda Cole-
man and Esther Johnson from little
ole Junis H. Rose High School in
Greenville, Nawth Calina.

“T’ye heard Washington and Lee
has 500 boys,” said pretty little Me-
linda, whose intent in that remark
wasn’t centered around yearbook
makeup lore. But none of the under-
class girls back at Junius H. Rose
wanted to come, the girls explained,
so they came again as seniors.

And what does pretty, blue-eyed

but

 

Maria Deveiney of East Mecklen-
burg High School down around
Charlotte, N. C., think about the fra-
ternity party aspect of the SIPA
weekend?

“Shot ... charge!”

And if she’s invited to a fraternity
house—“Oh, gosh, I won’t go in
alone.”

But lest this sound like the SIPA
girls roam the Washington and Lee
campus in unbridled search for the
unknown world of fraternity house
basements and college sophomores,
a word is due about advisers.

These rugged teachers who shep-
herd their flocks of students away
from their school’s classrooms
for the weekend deserve at least a
round of applause. They must quick-
ly survey the town of Lexington and
the W&L campus and_ establish
strong boundaries beyond which
their charges must not go. And many
of them have been through the
ordeal more than once before.

One adviser confided that she had
a special reason for not allowing

her girls to enter into the world of|
fraternity house basements: It seems

she had been to SIPA as a student
before and lived safely through the
weekend under the fraternity ban.
Thus she knows very well the logic
of the rule.

  

Another adviser backed the fra-
ternity ban, but added a bit of re-
assurance about her girls. “They are

 

es ee

' PLAUSIBLE

 

OH, PAUL, YOU’RE WONDERFUL!!!

 
     

PAUL in action with two delegates.

the cream of the crop. I wouldn't
bring any other kind.”
Boots Preddy and Pat Thompson

 

 

 

from Orange County High School
just up the Valley returned for a
second go as SIPA girls. And they
allowed as how they had to come
back to help their candidate for
president, Mo Shumate.

Of W&L men, Boots exclaimed:
“I think you can spot a W&L stu-
dent a mile away.”

Sighed Pat of the W&L scene:
“It’s kind of hard to express.”

The girls from George Washington
High School in Danville—Mary
Oakley, Robin Link, Kitty Evans
and Ellen Temple—said they were
here for a “little of both—parties
and work.”

Some of the random comments
of this sea of young ladies don’t
quite sound like the comments about
SIPA handbook’s seminar on “The
Selection and Implementation of the
Theme.” But then it’s spring.

On fraternities—“Boys .. . losts of
boys I'm not afraid to go
in...a blast... sorority girls like
them.” And a determined, “If we’re
asked, we'll go.”

On where they’re staying— Robert
E. Lee ... Mayflower .. . Green
Valley.” and a puzzled, “At some old
lady’s house.”

On why they came—‘“Seriously?
or for fun? Which would
prefer?”

 

you,

constitution, recently ratified and
giving the District of Columbia a
presidential vote, this delegate noted
that it was “the amendment of the
Constitution after the 22nd.”

Of new U.S. ambassador to India
John Kenenth Galbraith, the same
student wrote—“son of Mr. and Mrs.
Galbraith.” But which Galbraiths?

 

‘Radio W&L’ Expands

(Continued from page 1)

sive, and Dixieland. “Jazz Echoes” is
produced by Nick Denton, a sopho-
more from Chevy Chase, Md.

Overall direction and coordination
of the Radio W&L staff is under
the executive directorship of Harvey
Allen. He is assisted by Nick Den-
ton, whose title is Program Assistant.

The Department of Journalism
provides only the studio facilities of
Radio W&L and the actual broad-
casting and transmission part is done
by the local radio station, WREL,
1450 on the dial.

 

Davis Heads Short Courses

(Continued from page 2)

He graduated from Johns Hopkins
in 1949, and worked with the Journal
until 1951, when he became a re-
porter for the Times-Dispatch. In
1952, he returned to Winston-Salem
to work for the Sentinal. Mr. Davis
has also been a book columnist for
the Roanoke Times.

A native of Winston-Salem, Davis
attended VMI before entering the
Army in World War II. He received
an A.B. in English from Johns
Hopkins.

 

‘Home Edition’ Serves All

(Continued from page 1)

zens fast accurate reports of the elec-
tion. Home Edition had the local re-
sults “wrapped-up” within an hour
after the polls closed. It was the first
news show to carry Senator A, Willis
Robertson’s acceptance speech when
he was re-elected to the U.S. Senate.
Senator Robertson’s speech was later
forwarded by telephone to stations
throughout Virginia.

In addition to its actual radio
activities, Home Edition also main-
tains a news Bulletin Board on
which the latest news from Asso-
ciated Press is posted throughout
the school day. Home Edition spon-
sored a mock election during the
presidential campaign, and is cur-
rently planning an hour-long special
show on Russian propaganda using
tape recordings of “Radio Moscow”
short wave transmissions,
TUESDAY
Editon

Che Ring-tum Phi

Washington and Lee Semi-Weekly Newspaper

TUESDAY
Edition

 

Volume LXI

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA, MAY 2, 1961

Number 53

 

 

 

——eeveee eee eee

| Debators Split 2-2

 

(In Northern Meet
,

Facing the strongest debate teams
in the East and Mid-West, Bill
Buice and Bill Boardman of the
W&L Debate Team came out with

a respectable 2-2 record. At a

N.Y.U. Invitational Debate Tourna-

 

 

} Buice, Boardman Excell

ment in New York City over the |

past weekend, Holy Cross won top
honors as the tournament champion.
Holy Cross which defeated national
champions Harvard, and Kenyon
College, a strong debate school
from the corn belt, beat Buice and
Boardman.

Rutgers and Iona, the teams to
beat Holy Cross, were both beaten
by Buice and Boardman.

In persuasive speaking, W&L’s
only entries—Bill Noell and Al
Eckes—came in eighth and _ thir-
teenth respectively out of a field of
53.
Thirty-six schools from the East,
Mid-West and the South took part
in the two-day affair at Washington
Square.

This weekend the spring debate
season will end for Washington and
Lee at Columbia, South Carolina, in
the tournament for the championship
of the Atlantic Coast Conference.
Washington and Lee is one of the
few non-conference schools to be
extended a bid to participate. In
this competition such old rivals as
Virginia, Duke and Clemson will
probably meet.

 

   

Roy Goodwin

Goodwin, Roberts, Paine Na

Bill Roberts

  

Roger Paine

 

ROTC Men Honored

 

Top Cadet Awards Presented
Tomorrow At President’s Parade

Washington and Lee University
President Fred C. Cole will be the
honored guest and reviewing officer
at tomorrow’s Corps Day Parade, at
which time he will present various
awards and medals won by members
of the W&L Cadet Corps during the
past academic year.

 

May 8-22 Busy Week For Troubs;

Will Present ‘Man Of Destiny’
Plus ‘A Marriage Proposal’

By TOM LYBASS

A selection from two of the most
prominent authors of modern come-
dy will be offered by the Trouba-
dours in their next productions of
Shaw’s “The Man of Destiny” and
Chekhov’s “A Marriage Proposal.”
Both of these one-act plays will
be presented at 8:30 p.m. on May
8-12 at the Troubadour Theater.

The first play on the Troubadour
bill is “A Marriage Proposal.” Called
“a joke in one act,” the play differs
from “The Man of Destiny” in being
more farcical. Unlike Shaw’s play,
it lacks a sustained plot, subtle sit-
uation, the actors speak and move
only to incite laughter.

For the three rather spirited roles,
Dr. Keith Shillington, Miss Julia
Coates, and Mac McClung have
been selected. Dr. Shillington appears
as the elderly, pompous but affable
landowner with the improbable name
of Stephen Stepanovitch Chubukov.
His unmarried daughter, Natalia,
acted by Miss Coates, is sought in
marriage by Ivan Vasselevitch Lo-
mov, who is portrayed by Mac Mc-
Clung.

Having in

played Malvolio

 

Slater And Couch Elected
To Lead Political Parties

Political campaigning for class of-
fices opens this week under new
party chairmen. Spud Slater was
elected chairman of the Indepen-
dent Party at a meeting Thursday
night.

At a University Party Caucus last
night, the Big Clique elected Gran-
tham Couch chairman for the com-
ing year.

“The student mandate in last
week’s election,” stated Slater, “was
a clear decision in favor of certain
basic issues. The Independent Party
intends to pursue these issues by pro-
viding nominees for class offices who
will best serve the student body
and sincerely devote themselves to
putting these platform proposals into
effect.”

NOTICE

SENIORS

 

 

Caps and gowns will go on sale
Wednesday -Monday from 9:30-1:00
in the Co-op.

SWMSFC members will contact
seniors in their fraternity houses.

“Twelfth Night” and Gremio in “The
Taming of the Shrew,” Dr. Shilling-
ton is not inexperienced in theatri-
eal work. Explaining why he is
starring in “A Marriage Proposal,”
he said, “I like to play buffoons
and jackasses. Also, I always have
my coming out in the spring.”

A singer in the choir of the R. E.
Lee Episcopal Church, Miss Julia
Coates finds the major difficulty of
her role in voice control, being re-
quired several times to scream hys-
terically. Miss Coates, a graduate
of Mary Washington College, teach-
es eighth grade English at Lexing-
ton High School.

“The Man of Destiny” fills out the
rest of the evening of fine drama
the Troubadours will present. In-
tended to satirize the heroic figure
of Napoleon, “The Man of Destiny”
offers an excellent opportunity for
experienced actors to display their
roles. The two supporting roles,
held by John Dunnell and Andy
Adelson, are important because of
the contrast they offer to the main
characters, Napoleon and the Strange
Lady.

To John Dunnell falls the
of the impetuous lieutenant,
personifies the revolutionary zeal
of Napoleon’s time. A person who
speaks before he acts, the lieutenant
is eminently qualified to rush in
where angels fear to tread. The lieu-
tenant is the eleventh character John
Dunnell has played since his acting
career began five years ago. Recall-
ing his first role, as the eleventh
juror in “The Twelve Angry men,”
John commented, “Before that play,
I was afraid to get up and talk to
anyone.”- Most of the characters he
has played have been romantic he-
roes or dashing courtiers. About this
John could only say, “Somehow I
always end up with tights on.”

Giusseppe, the obsequious Italian
inn keeper with the “soul of a
servant” is acted by Andy Adelson.
Andy’s memorable appearance in the
last Troubadour production, “Henry
IV,” as the valet who asks for
a cigarette, was his first production.
An English major with a special
interest in Shaw, Andy is delighted
with his role.

All of the roles in “The Man of
Destiny” demand not only brilliance
of characterization and polish of
manner but also vitality of speech.
The major problem facing the cast
is control of the. Shavian rhythms,
especially with regard to delivering

part
who

 

long and subtly articulated phrases
without breaking them up.

 

As set by tradition, it will be the
last parade of the year and, as usual,
has been designated President’s Day
Parade. It will be the second such
parade that Dr. Cole has participated
in since becoming President of
Washington and Lee.

Among the several awards being
given is the Department of the
Army Superior Cadet Ribbon,
awarded to one member of each of
the four classes for “outstanding
leadership, scholastic achievement,
and proficiency in military training.
This year’s medal will go to senior
Nathan P.B. Simpson, Battle Group
Commander; junior Charles E. Dow-
man, Company “B”; sophomore John
C. Thurmond, Co. D.; and freshman
William B. Ogilvie, Jr., of Co. “E.”

For outstanding “leadership, aca-
demic excellence, general proficiensy
in military training, and contribution
to the W&L ROTC,” junior L. David
Callaway, III, will be awarded the
Association of the United States
Army ROTC Gold Medal.

Four senior members of the W&L
ROTC will be awarded the Sons of
the American Revolution Medal for
“outstanding example, general pro-
ficiency, and contributions to the
Washington and Lee ROTC.” They

 

Senior Banquet On May 11
To Be At Natural Bridge

The Senior Class Banquet for the
class of 1961 will be held Thursday
evening, May 11, at the Natural
Bridge Hotel. Invitations for the
ceremony which will include an ad-
dress by President Cole have al-
ready been mailed.

The smorgasbord will be attended
by the deans of the university. En-
tertainment will be supplied by the
W&L Sazeracs.

 

are Pete Straub, Jack Soper, Walt
Shugart, and Bob Street.

Three juniors in the Advanced
Course of ROTC will be awarded
Reserved Officers Association Army
ROTC medals for “outstanding lead-
ership, academic axcellence, general
proficiency in military training and
contributions to the W&L ROTC.”

The Gold ROA medal will be
presented to R. Roy Goodwin, II, of
Co. “C,” the Silver medal to Jerry
H. Hyatt, Co. “A,” and the Bronze
medal to George H. Van Sciver of
os

“For outstanding achievement in
Military Science and Tactics as evi-
denced by having amassed the high-
est grades in their respective course
year,” four cadets will receive the
Chicago Tribune ROTC Award. Gold
medals will go to Harold J. Fischel,
MS-IV; and Allyn D. Kantor, MS-
III; Silver medals will be awarded to
William A. Barnett, MS-II, and
Frank W. Wright, MS-I.

In recognition as being the most
outstanding MS-IV Cadet to be
commissioned in the Armor Branch,
Harold J. Fischel, Executive Officer
of Co. “A” will be awarded the
United States Armor Association
prize.

“In recognition of his leadership,
soldierly bearing, and proficiency in
military training,” L. David Calla-
way, I, MS-III, will be awarded
the Department of Virginia, Reserve
Officers’ Association Ladies Club of
the United States prize.

Each of these awards will be made
by University President Fred C.
Cole at the President’s Day cere-
monies, beginning at 4:45 Wednesday
afternoon.

 

NOTICE
Final examinations begin Satur-
day, May 20.

 

er Hall.

Class Elections

Class elections will be held on Monday, May 8, at
7 p.m. Locations for the various eelctions are as follows.

Rising Sophomore Class—Lee Chapel.

Rising Junior Class—Newcomb 8.

Rising Senior Class—South Room of Tucker Hall.

Rising Intermediate Law Class—West Room of Tuck-

Rising Senior Law Class—East Room of Tucker Hall.

Seminar Changed

Frank O’Hara’s appearance in the Seminar in Liter-
ature tomorrow night has been cancelled. Mr. O’Hara
is not able to come because of the pressure of other work.

Dance Board Elections

Interviews for the position of vice-president and assist-
ant business manager of the Dance Board will be held on
Friday, May 5, at 2:30 p.m. in the Student Union.

Those rising juniors interested in applying should
consult the ODK Board as soon as possible.

 

‘Ring-tum Phi,’

med As Editors

‘Collegian’ Posts

Named By Publications Board

Yesterday the publications Board
appointed Roy Goodwin, KA, and
Bill Roberts, SAE, as editors of
next year’s Tuesday and Friday edi-
tions of the Ring-tum Phi respec-
tively.

Pete Agelasto, a Phi Psi, was
nemed business manager for both
editions.

Roger Paine, Phi Gam, and Ralph
Elies, PEP were selected as editor
and business manager respectively
of the 1961-62 Southern Collegian.

Appesring yesterday before the
Publications Board, which consists
of present and past editors and busi-
ness managers of the Ring-tum Phi,
Southern Collegian, and Calyx, these
candidates were selected on a basis
of their qualifications, grades, and
experience. These newly appointed
heads-of-staff will take charge of
their posts next fall.

Goodwin, president of the W&L
chapter of Sigma Delta Chi, na-
tional journalistic society, is pres-
ently the assistant-managing editor
of the Friday edition of the Ring-
tum Phi and has been on the Ring-
tum Phi staff for three years. An
associate editor in his sophomore
year, he was the editor of the SIPA
edition. In addition to being presi-
dent of his fraternity, Goodwin is
a member of the IFC, Cotillion Club,
and Scabbard and Blade. Vice presi-
dent in charge of publicity for the
Springs Dance Set, Goodwin has
also done some reporting for Home
Edition on Radio Washington and

Glee Ciub Gives
Spring Concerts

By RICK BELSER
Friday Reporter

The Washington and Lee Glee
Club presented its Spring Concert
Wednesday night in Lee Chapel. The
program, which showed sparse stu-
dent attendance, was composed of
songs from the fall concert and sev-
eral new additions. Under the di-
rection of Professor Robert Stewart,
the Glee Club opened with the Alma
Mater, “College Friendships.” The
second and third selections, “Good
Fellows Be Merry” by Bach and
“Widerspruch,” were much improved
from the fall Parents’ Weekend
concert. In “Libera Me,” from the
“Requiem” by Faure, and “Land-
sighting” by Grieg, freshman soloist
John Baker gave an outstanding
performance.

The second part of the program
was presented by the Westhampton
College Choir, under the direction
of James Erb. The Westhampton girls
opened with the lilting “Sound the
Trumpet” by Purcell and followed
with the “Messe Basse” by Faure.
To round out the first half of the
evening’s concert, the John A.
Graham Brass Choir, directed by
Professor Stewart, offered “Sonata
No. 2” by Pezel and “Prelude and
Fugue” by King.

The W&L Glee Club began the
second half of the concert with “As
I Ride By,” an amusing ballad writ-
ten by Kernochan and sung by so-
loist Sam Channell. The two final
numbers were “Come to Me, Bend
to Me,” from “Brigadoon” and I
Could Have Danced All Night” from
“My Fair Lady.” W&L’s freshman
pianist, Warren Hopkins, gave his
usual fine performance.

To close out the evening, the
Westhamption Choir did “Slumber
Sound” by Rossi and two trios from
“The Magic Flute” by Mozart. How-
ever, Director Erb had saved the
best for last. The girls rendition of
a suite from “La Vie Parisienne” by
Offenbach kept the audience laugh-
ing from beginning to end. This final
number alone would have made the
concert worth while for many people
who did not attend. Both directors
and both groups were disappointed
at the poor attendance.

Following the concert, a reception
was held in duPont Hall for the
Westhampton girls and the W&L
Glee Club. Everyone seemed pleased
by the performance.

The Glee Club left today
tis annual Spring Tour. It
return on Thursday, May 4. In all,
four concerts are planned, includ-
ing a return engagement at West-
hampton College in Richmond.

 

for |
will |

Lee. He holds a journalism schol-
arship, the Register Scholarship of
the Dudley White Foundation. He
held the Johnston Scholarship last
year.

Roberts, a rising senior from Wil-
liamsburg, Va., is the managing edi-
tor of the Tuesday Ring-tum Phi and
has been a reporter for the past two
years. He is an Honor Roll and
Dean’s List student with a 2.4 grade
point ratio. In addition he has letter-
ed for three years on the football
squad. Roberts did freshman work on
the Shenandoah. He is a member of
Phi Eta Sigma Freshman Honorary
Society.

Agelasto, a rising senior and Phi
Psi, has served on the Ring-tum Phi
business staff for three years. An
alternate dorm counselor for next
year, he will be president of the
1961-62 UCA. Agelasto is a member
of the Student Service Society and
Library Committee and has lettered
in freshman tennis. Angelasto will be
the feature editor for the Calyx
next year.

Paine, a rising junior, is an of-
ficer in the Glee Club. He is as-
sistant editor of the Tuesday Ring-
tum Phi, and serves as the asso-
ciate editor of the Southern Col-
legian. He is chairman of the Cham-
ber of Commerce of Forks of Buffa-
lo, Va.

Elias, who is vice president of his
fraternity, has been on the IFC for
two years. He was a member of the
track team as a freshman and was
varsity soccer manager as a sopho-
more. He conducted the two blood-
drives last year. Elias has been office
manager of the Southern Collegian
for two years.

Vacating the editorships and busi-
ness manager post respectively for
the incoming leaders of the Ring-
tum Phi are Rosie Page, Tuesday
edition; Nathan Simpson, Friday
Edition; and Huntley Biggs. Hugo
Hoogenboom and Bill McCardell will
leave the Southern Collegian as edi-
tor and business manager respec-
tively.

 

Five Entries Merit
1961 Mahan Awards

The English department announced
today that five students have been
chosen for Mahan Awards in crea-
tive writing.

Paul Van Avery, Ronald Alenstein,
and Bond Johnson won prose awards.
William Chaplin and Chester White,
Jr., were the recipients of verse
awards.

Van Avery received the freshman
prose award for his story, “The
Bridge.”

Two junior prose awards were
made to Johnson for his short
story, “Garlands of Wisteria,” and
to Alenstein for his short story,
“Half-Sick of Shadows.” No soph-
omore prose award was made this
year.

Chaplain received his verse award
for two short lyrics and a dramatic
monologue he submitted in the
competition.

White’s verse award, his second,
went for a collection of seven
lyrics which the judges said “showed
unusual facility in exact images.”

This year’s competition for Ma-
han awards drew 12 prose entries
and 11 verse entries. The judges
said they were particularly pleased
at the number of students now
writing serious verse.

“Both in numbers and quality,
this year’s was better work than
we've had before,” said Dr. A. Ross
Borden, acting head of the English
department.

The Mahan Awards were estab-
lished under the will of the late
George A. Mahan, of Hannibal, Mo.
Recipients may take a $100 remis-
sion in fees from the University, or
$60 in cash.

There are generally two freshman
prose awards, and one prose award
each in the sophomore and junior
classes, with one verse award open
to any sophomore, or junior. But the
committee may choose not to make
an award in any of the divisions,
or shift the awards from one di-
vision to another, where the quality

 

of the entries demands it.
(Continued on page 4)
Page 2

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

 

Che Ring-tum Phi
Tuesday Edition

Member of Virginia Intercollegiate Press Association

 

Pressure On Party System
Released

The results of the past election have shown that there is
nothing inherently wrong with the party system as it exists at
Washington and Lee. Officially, the University Party still main-
tains a sizeable advantage as far as the number of party mem-
bers is concerned. At present the UP has 471 members, and a
majority of some hundred votes over the Independent group.

The events of the past week have shown that this obstacle is
not insurmountable. If the minority party is willing to offer
the most capable and the most qualified candidates at their
disposal, and to organize its members into a super political
organization, it can win any election. As we see it, the pressure
has been taken off of the party system and placed upon the

parties and their candidates.

In addition, the past election has brought home the fact
that any party that expects to have any of its candidates elected
must cater to the various student interest groups on campus
(the Law School, the non-fraternity group, etc.). We believe
that in the future both parties will have to include in their
slates candidates from these various groups in both the big
seven and the class elections. It is our prediction that if both
parties do not heed this warning, they will find themselves look-

ing in from the outside.

The election campaigns, at least in the near future, will be
lively. They will deal with issues which are of paramount inter-
est to the students of this school. It will be interesting to see
what extent the issues in the past big seven elections will affect

the up-coming class elections.

With regard to “APATHY” it is interesting to note that
the Ring-tum Phis of a decade ago were filled with columns,
editorials and articles bemoaning the lack of student “‘interest”’
and calling for major changes within our system. Most of the
proposals died on the vine. A conservative reaction set in.
There is the old axiom about history repeating itself. Will
it hold true in the present case? We hope not!

Prior to election week the main issue of contention seems
to have been our honor system. Neither campaign platform
contained any proposal for major revision in this area. We
sincerely hope that no major change will be made. We have
the utmost faith in our system as it now exists.

All big three candidates seemed to agree that the trouble
lay not within the system, but rather in the lack of information
concerning the system. The obvious answer, then, is more and
better indoctrination of students into the system. We are con-
fident that this will be taken care of by the newly elected officers.

 

Gray Charges
EC Members

Dear Editor:

I believe that in view of the
questions which I am raising in this
statement there should be an in-
vestigation into the activities of the
individuals responsible for the situ-
ations dealt with. I believe that the
Student Body Constitution has been
violated too extensively both in
fact and in spirit to ignore what has
happened.

1, Unlawful change of the Consti-
tution: In Article V, Paragraph A,
number 5 the word prosecutor as it
appears in the Handbook of Student
Government has been changed in the
recent printing of the Constitution to
investigator. The Student Body has
not been informed of this change
or asked for its approval. The per-
son or persons responsible has vio-
lated his oath of office and is sub-
ject to a request for his resignation
and, it seems to me, trial for vio-
lation of the Honor System for lying.

2. The EC has failed to give prop-
er publicity to its stated belief that
it has the power to change the
Handbook statement of the Honor
System and Procedure. It has de-
liberately mislead the Student Body
in publicizing its proposed insertion
regarding legal counsel at Public
Trial as an amendment up for stu-
dent vote. It had already been in fact
passed by your own interpretation.

3. The EC has failed to give prop-
er publicity to its change in the
statement of paragraph 3 on page
19 of the Handbook.

4. The EC has failed to give proper
publicity as required in the Consti-
tution to the proposed amendment
to the Constitution which would
have changed the amendment pro-
cedure.

5. The EC failed to make proper
provision for the representation of
the Law School at the nominating
convention, though it is clear that as
a part of the Student Body it was
entitled to such under the Constitu-
tion.

6. A statement has been made by
a member of the Student Body that
EC members at last year’s ROTC
Summer Camp declared that the
Honor System did not cover Summer

(Continued on page 4)

 

EC Replies
To Charges

On Monday, May 1, 1961, Grayfred
Gray appeared before the Executive
Committee and submitted the letter
appearing on this page. The Execu-
tive Committee would like to make
the following response to each point
of Mr. Gray’s letter.

1. It is the opinion of the Com-
mittee that the change of the word
“prosecutor” to “investigator” rep-
resented a procedural rather than a
substantive change. For some years
the functions of this individual dur-
ing honor trials have been those of
an investigator rather than a pros-
ecutor. The Executive Committee
has the prerogative to change the
procedure for honor trials by a 2/3
vote of the standing committee. The
Executive Committe has therefore
acted to replace the word with one
more in keeping with the establish-
ed procedure.

2. We feel that Mr. Gray is im-
puting motives to the Committee that
it did not possess. The change is
purely tentative subject to the ap-
proval of the student body. This
change was approved at the referen-
dum by a vote of more than two-
thirds of the student body.

3. Since the change made in the
explanation of the honor system by
the Executive Committee was of a
clarifying nature the Committee did
not feel it necessary to advise the
student body formally of such action.
Here is the above-mentioned change:

“If a student leaves the Univer-
sity to avoid facing the Honor
Trial, jurisdiction is retained by
the Student Body to investigate
the case...”

The correction is “If a student
leaves the University prior to ex-
ercising an option to avoid facing
the Honor Trial, jurisdiction is re-
tained by the Executive Commit-
tee...”

4. In failing to follow to the letter
the procedure for publication of
proposed amendments by not pub-
lishing the amendment on the Stu-
dent Union bulletin board, the
Executive Committee was technically
at fault. However, the Committee did
publish the proposed amendment
upon the Payne Hall bulletin board,

By HUGO HOOGENBOOM

A section of the press that rarely
receives credit for indicating difficult
areas in foreign affairs is the comic
section. Although they are not rap-
idly responsive to today’s fist-mov-
ing crises, they perform well.

Steve Canyon is the most sensi-
tive foreign affairs compass in the
business today When all that furor
was being raised in Scotland about
using Holy Loch for submarine
bases, Steve was right there fighting
sheepherders for radar. With Laos
looking more explosive, though, he
has moved to an unspecified location
in the Far East.

The Far East is host to a goodly
number of strip heroes these days:
Buzz Sawyer and Terry Lee. (Ter-
ry does spend most of his time out
there, it’s where the pirates are.)
For us sentimental types, there is

 

Webster Unabridged

A Dog’s Life
At Wooffle U.

By ED WEBSTER

This is a story about a beagle
named Thurber, who lived in Up-
per Muttclair, N. J. He was just a
young fellow, but his father had
already taught him most of the es-
sentials of life: sipping Scotch, flirt-
ing with the ladies, talking politics,
and playing golf.

In order to become a successful
dog, Thurber went south to Wooffle
University, where he soon became
assimilated into his new surround-
ings. He was especially relieved to
hear the dean say: “We have just
one rule: All our dogs are gentle-
men.”

“Every Wooffle dog is a gentleman.
That means me!” Thurber mused
happily, admiring his new tweed
sport coat in the mirror. Thurber
came of a good family, all of whom
were gentlemen. Especially his fath-
er, who was richer than all the
rest of them put together.

One Saturday night, a cute little
poodle from Hollins told Thurber
that she didn’t think he was much
of a gentleman. Thurber hurried to
the library the next afternoon, hop-
ing to find something that would an-
swer her criticism.

All he could find was a dusty
treatise written several centuries
ago by an obscure English terrier.
It went like this:

“The gentleman is as far above
the ordinary man, as the man is
above the boy. The boy delights in
playing with toys; the man delights
in toying with his fellow beings;
but the true gentleman, being ob-
livious to external diversions, takes
his delight in harnessing his intel-
lect and letting it lead him to high-
er endeavours.

“The gentleman is not swayed
by his companions, nor does he
depend upon them for amusement
or flattery. He chooses his friends
discreetly, yet he is able to com-
port himself with ease and grace
in the company of all manners of
people. Dignified without being
tedious, reserved without being
cold, the gentleman naturally
adopts a manner and an appear-
ance befitting his situation.

“The strength of the gentleman
lies in the integrity of his own
mind, Although he is humble and
tolerant and unpretentious, he is
never afraid to defend the truth of
his convictions.

“The worth of the gentleman lies
in his ability to perceive himself in
proportion to the rest of the world.
To the infant, the world is a soft
presence which devotes itself to his
comforts; to the boy, the world is
a great playing-field where he
may seek amusement. Many are
the adults who have never put
away these childish ideas; but the
hallmark of manhood must be a
sense of obligation to one’s fel-
low men. When the man has bal-
anced his concern for society with
his duties to his own intellectual
integrity, he becomes a gentleman.

“The gentleman is versatile in
his talents, and temperate in his
habits. He is sincere, and honour-
able, and just, and considerate.
Whatever befalls him, whether tri-
umph or disaster, he maintains his
equanimity and does not allow
these fortunes to cloud his vision.
From this idea of proportion, he
derives a sense of humor which
often leads him to laugh at his
own follies. ...”

Thurber closed the book sadly.
Somehow these words seemed very
distant to him—not what he was
looking for at all. “Times have
changed,” he thought. “It would

 

Canyon, Duck, Vital To America
But Phantom Is Not Up To Date

a lot of satisfaction in seeing Terry
and Steve in the same part of the
world, since they are both the off-
spring of Milton Caniff. Perhaps
they’ll get together out there to talk
about Dad.

Cuba seems to be relatively un-
popular these days although Smilin’
Jack has been tangled up with com-
munist types in an_ unspecified
Central American area.

The comic strips have no-one in
the other major trouble _ spot,
Africa, except for their permanent
delegate, The Phantom, who lives in
the deep wood with the dreaded
pigmy poison people, a horse, a dog,
and, occasionally, some nut of a girl
who seems to arrive for the big
weekends. The Phantom’s Africa
is clearly nowhere near the Congo,
and the Phantom does not seem to
have heard of Major Generals Vic-
tor Lundula and Joseph Mobutu.
When the pigmy poison people rise
and slay the “Ghosts who walks,”
then we will assurdedly know that
Africa has sunk into barbarism.

On the other hand, we have char-
acters notorious for their inability
to face up to the exigencies of mod-
ern life. Chief among them is Phil-
lip Finn for whom times seems to
have stopped in the early nineteen-
twenties. Others live in our modern
world of status seeking and preco-
cious young female novelists. Orphan
Annie and her friends seem to have
single-handedly licked a gang of
commie spies, American traitors and
teamster goons, so I have a sugges-

 

tion to offer. Why not send the whole

gang of them to Africa?

Finn would discover for the first
time that there was something be-
yond his lace curtain world, and
Mary Worth could really get her
teeth into a contemporary prob-
lem (colonialism with overtones of
prejudice, etc.), and Little Orphan
Annie would finally see a lizard leap.
But the most important advantage
would be that we would let the
emerging African nations know that
they are as important in our most
widely popular art form an any
Chinese or Cuban.

Of course, if we're to have a
wholesale incursion of the comic
strips into foreign parts, we’d have
to revise some policies: George
Wunder (Terry and the Pirates)
would have to learn to draw real
Chinese characters, for instance; but
most important, the big syndicates
could assign a political columnist to
each major strip. Then we'd have
such things as Steve Canyon, by
Milt Caniff and Joseph Alsop; Wal-
ter Lipman could be assigned to
Mary Worth and Marquise Childs to
Donald Duck.

But to effectively co-ordinate the
whole venture some government as-
sistance would be necessary. Since
Edward Murrow has his hands full
with the comical efforts of the US.
Information Agency, and since for-
eign policy decisions would have to
be made, the job would best be done
by the State Department. Perhaps an
under-Secretary for Funny Papers
could be appointed, and I have a
candidate: G. Mennen Williams.

 

Each year they come, turning the
rolling green lawn into a madhouse
of crinoline, perfume, glaring bright
dresses and wide blinking eyes.

They are the SIPA girls.

They talk about fraternity houses,
and drunks and parties and “all that
stuff, you know.” And once in a
while they go to seminars on how
to make advertising dollars count
and take yearbook pictures.

Washington and Lee sophomores
chase them, and talk to them about
drinking beer and going into base-
ments, and making out when the
lights go out in the second floor
apartment.

And the dogs that usually sleep in
front of Newcomb Hall stay away
for the weekend.

“We're here to have a party,”
chimed Ruth Clark, Melinda Cole-
man and Esther Johnson from little
ole Junis H. Rose High School in
Greenville, Nawth Calina.

“I’ve heard Washington and Lee
has 500 boys,” said pretty little Me-
linda, whose intent obviously doesn’t
center around yearbook makeup
lore.

And what does pretty, blue-eyed
Maria Deviney of East Mecklenburg
High School down around Char-
lotte, N. C., think about the frater-
nity party facet of SIPA?

“Shot... charge!” That’s all?

“T’ve heard some of the boys get
kind of high,” said pert Sandy Bill-
ups from Manchester High School in
Richmond.

But Maria Deviney doesn’t mind
“as long as they aren’t vulgar.”

And if she’s invited to a fraternity
house—“Oh, gosh, I won't go in
alone.”

Then into this world of parties and
wild “college boys” looms the Ad-
viser like a slamming door. It can
be a shattering experience for the
SIPA girls.

Mary Taylor from E. C. Glass
High School in Lynchburg was be-
moaning her dilemma. It seems that
her adviser was going to drive the
girls home after the last “academic”

SIPA Girls Discover W&L
Is A “Blast-Shot-Charge’ ’

session Friday and the girls would
miss the dance Friday night.

“Why don’t you tell your adviser
it’s dangerous to drive at night.
You know something like—the life
you save may be your own,” advised
a W&L onlooker.

“That’s why our adviser told us
we couldn’t stay here at night.”

“All my adviser said was to stay
out of fraternities,’ sighed Sally
Hamner from Culpeper High School
up the Valley a bit. Does Sally’s ad-
viser know about apartments?

And the girls from George Wash-
ington High School in Danville—
Mary Oakley, Robin Link, Kitty
Evans and Ellen Temple—described
their adviser as “half and _ half.”
All right, so what else is new.

And one adviser volunteered some
information of her own about her
girls. “This is the cream of the crop.
I wouldn’t bring any other kind.”
This led an onlooker to make a fun-
ny remark about harvests.

And amidst all the wide-eyed en-
thusiasm for the unknown the SIPA
girls have their own little problems.

Sally Hamer left her true rock ’n’
roll love back home in Culpeper.

“Sally told David she came up here
strictly for journalistic reasons, but
David knows Sally,” warned her
fellow SIPA girlmate. But then,
“Sally’s only been going with David
since September.”

And _ cute-as-she-can-be Sandy
Billups came up with a lad by the
name of Gary, who is spending his
weekend bagging groceries in the
A&P in Richmond while his sweet-
heart romps about Lexington. But
the prom is next weekend, noted
Sandy. So Gary can make up for
his lost time.

Some of the random comments of
this sea of young womanhood makes
about as much sense as the SIPA
Handbook’s seminar on “The Selec-
tion and Implementation of the
Theme.” But then does SIPA really
make any sense to the SIPA girls?

(Continued on page 4)

 

 

   
 

  

NOTHING IS
MORE FIERCE -
THAN MY HATRED

FOR CATS!
I DESPISE

ON WHICH
THEY WALK! AW

  

   
    
 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

I DO BELIEVE A CAT HAS

 

WALKED. ALONG HERE...
| YES, IM SURE OF IT. |
Ss

   

 

be suicide to try to be that sort

 

(Continued on page 4)

of a gentleman at Wooffle.”

 

 

 

I HEREBY DESPISE
THIS GROUND!

     

Allen Sees
Girls’ Schools
As Good Source

By HARVEY ALLEN

One great change I’ve notice
around the Hill with respect to
so-called Ring-tum Phi columnists
is that they seemingly are completely
avoiding the wealth of material with
which to fill their weekly columns...
namely the neighboring riding aca-
demies. I fail to see why, although
I'd be the last not to acknowledge
the necessity of poking fun at some
strictly W&L antics.

Speaking of neighboring riding
academies, we had the fortune one
day just before the first semester
exams to visit the two located in
the Greater Lynchburg-Amherst
area. Rather than a social routine,
we were in the midst of a quest for
knowledge, seeing as how a term
paper was due the next day. We'd
already trouped the stacks at Hol-
lins and were moving to new pas-
tures.

For some reason still unknown
to me, we found that the stacks at
*Macon’s library are not open to
“outsiders.” The large matronly-
type woman which greeted us with
a scowl pointed out that the facili-
ties other than the reading rooms
were only for the riding academy’s
students. Why, we wondered? Was
there some sordid incident involving
a male member of a nearby institu-
tion for higher learning? Could it
be that somebody at ’Macon once
saw Blackboard Jungle and figured
what happened in a lab classroom
could happen in the stacks?

Meanwhile, at Sweet Briar, we
noticed only one semi-earthshaking
change. A certain telephone pole had
been relocated, into which we had
come in direct contact on a
rainy afternoon back in September
1957.

We found the telephone pole had
been moved behind a tree. The orig-
inal, I might add had been com-
pletely sheared off that September
afternoon. Possibly this was to make
future action between the car and
the telephone pole more difficult or
maybe even to prevent members of
the Chesapeake and Potomac Tele-
phone Co. from milling around the
campus with any frequency. But
then smashing into telephone poles
hasn’t been an “in” game around
here since my freshman year.

Our last bit comes from the last
of the “Big Four,” riding academy-
wise, Baldwin. We were advised no
less than last Sunday night that
now, at last, the aforementioned
academy is well-known at such di-
verse places as Williams, Harvard,
and Princeton... W&L of the North-
land. As we are told, this new
awareness on the part of our broth-
ers to the north came about mainly
through the efforts of six "Baldwin
young ladies.

As a result we were further ad-
vised that the six, plus others, are
now planning overnights for next
year so as to take advantage of
the numerous invitations they ex-
pect from that area.

 

Dr. Allen Ragan Presents
Paper at State Meeting

Dr. Allen E. Ragan, associate pro-
fessor of political science at Wash-
ington and Lee university presented
a paper on “A proposed Federal
Administrative Court System” at the
34th annual meeting of the Virginia
Court System” at the 34th annual
meeting of the Virginia Social
Association held Saturday at the
University of Virginia.

Dr. Regan was one of five Wash-
ington and Lee professors who at-
tended the day-long session. Others
were Dr. E. C. Griffith, Dr. Allen
W. Moger, Prof. Rupert N. Latture,
and Dr. Leon F. Sensabaugh.

Lewis F. Powell, Jr., of the Vir-
ginia State Board of Education and
a Washington and Lee alumnus ad-
dressed the evening dinner session
on “The Social Sciences and Ameri-
ca’s Position in World Affairs.”

‘Continued on page 4)

CheBing-tum Phi

Tuesday Edition

The Ring-tum Phi is published Tues-
day and Friday durin e college year.
It is printed by the Journalism Labor-
wy Press, Washington and Lee Uni-
versity. The mailing address is Box
899. Lexington, Va,

Entered ag second class matter Sep-
tember 20, 1946 at the Post Office, Lex-
ington. Va., under the act of March

 

National Advertising Representative:
The National Advertisers Service. Inc.,
420 Madison Ave., New York, N.Y.

ec ne ee Rosewell Page, III
Business Manager.............. Huntley Biggs

Editorial Board
Managing HEditor.................... Bill Roberts

 
  
  
 

News Editor...
Sports Fditor........
Associate Editors.

..Bob Bridewell
tune ooteve Guild
Lanny Butler, Bill

 

 

 

 

 

“Smith, Ronnie King ©

Photography Editor... Bill Young ©
eo eee Don McFall |

 
 

ee + mg pe mere

THE RING-TUM PHI

Page 3

 

 

Baseball Team Downs George Washington 5-4

W&L Now 4-1
In SC Action

By HARRY MEEM

Washington and Lee’s baseball
team got four runs in the first in-
ning Saturday and then hung on to
win their third contest in a row, to
beat George Washington 5-4.

Senior righthander Roy Carpenter
won his fourth straight game.
W&L started fast, after holding

GW scoreless in their half of the
first. Buck Rose walked, Chuck
Lane laid down a perfect bunt and
beat it out for a single, Ned Hobbs
walked to fill the sacks, and Bobby
Williams singled to right to drive in
Rose and Lane. Hobbs moved to
third and Williams to second on the
throw from right field.

Carpenter then hit a sacrifice fly
to left, scoring Hobbs. Jim Russ
drew a walk, Robin Wood drew
another, and Park Gilmore hit a
sacrifice to center to score Williams
with the fourth run of the inning.
Howard Martin, the ninth batter
for the Generals in the inning lined
out.

 

Roy Carpenter fires a fast one in Saturday’s game with GW. The Generals

won 5-4.

—Photo by Young

 

W&L’s fifth run was scored in *

the third inning, when, with one
out, Carpenter walked, Russ
singled, Wood singled to drive
Carpenter home.

GW came back to score in the
sixth on three singles put back-to-
back with two out, and then scored
three in the seventh. The leadoff
man walked. Carpenter got the next
two batters out, but a walk and a
single scored the first run of the
inning. Then Robin Wood dropped
a fly ball to permit another run to
score, and a single accounted for
the last of GW’s runs.

The Generals, in avenging last
year’s 19-5 defeat, ran their sea-
son’s record to 6-4. This was the
third straight win for them, and
gives them a record of four wins
against no defeats on Smith field
this year.

The win for Carpenter gives him
four in a row, against two losses on
the Generals’ spring trip. Since his
loss to North Carolina State on April

Golfers Play
In Va. Tourney

The Washington and Lee golf
team left early Monday morning for
the annual Virginia State Intercol-
legiate Golf tournament at the Cas-
cades Course in Hot Springs, Vir-
ginia. The tournament boasts of en-
tries from twelve Virginia colleges.
The schools represented are Norfolk
William and Mary, Richmond, RPI,
Virginia, Hampden-Sydney, Rand-
dolph-Macon, VPI, Bridgewater and
Lynchburg. The tournament is a
medal affair with 6 men playing.
The best 4 scores are taken for ag-
gregate medal—36_ holes.

The tournament, which started in
1950, has seen Washington and Lee
bring home honors in 5 of its 11
years. In 1950 and 1951 W&L took
both team and individual awards.
| Six hundred and twenty-six and 606
team scores were fired while Wes

 

 

 

 

Ist, he’s pitched in five games, 8) Brown took individual honors both
total of 33 and two-thirds innings,’ oars with scores of 148 and 144 re-
giving up nine runs, six of which, spectively. In 1953 Wé&L won with
were earned. a team score of 624, and in 1959 the
Jim Russ paced the Generals at Generals fired a score of 637. The
the plate, getting two of their six} 637 score remains as one stroke short
hits. Lane, Williams, Wood, and (Continued on page 4)
Martin each got one. GW got seven

 

Generals Win
5-4 In Tennis

The Washington and Lee tennis
team won over the opposing Roa-
noke College team this past week-
end in what seemed to be a very
close match for the Generals. Al-
though Roanoke College was a little
stronger than expected, Washington
and Lee won the match by the
score of 5-4, consisting of four singles
and one doubles. Washington and
Lee dropped the number one singles
match as John Baker was defeated
by Al Jacobs, an excellent player
from Philadelphia. They also lost
the number five position as John
Mills was defeated by his opponent,
Howell.

Excellent ability was shown in
the number three doubles match as
John Mills and Bud Hollman, a
freshman, also won his singles match
in the number six position and
seems to show great promise for the
Washington and Lee team.

The tennis matches scheduled for
Monday against Bridgewater Col-
lege were rained out, but the Gen-
erals will have another chance to

(Continued on page 4)

 

 

hits off Carpenter, who struck out
nine while walking five. The Gen-

&
*%
*
+
*
+
%
+

erals drew nine free passes off GW We Feature

lefthander Hedetniemi, who struck

out three. S A T S >
The Generals pulled off the only E i E

double play of the game third base- Pp

man Lane to Martin at first. Dair y Products

 

 

Green Valley Motel

One Mile North on
U. S. Highway No. 11

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA
HO 3-2195

Be Bc Be Be ale she de Me Be Me Be Be BeBe Be Be Be Be Be Be ta Be Bete ite Be Ba Be tte Be a tle Bethe
OBOE OE Ee Rt OE MGT GS ES OG Ee MGS Ee ES GS Ma ES MT ES GY ORS ES ES ES ET ES MET ES eS a ae ee

 

 

ale le aXe ale ale ale ale ale ale ale ole alle alle ale oe ae alle ale ale he Be ale ae ale Be alle Me le Be he le Be he he he he Meche
ee ee ee eee ee eee eee eee eee eee ee eee

“To get the best get Sealtest”

over twenty different products in addition to
delicious Sealtest ice cream

Block and Crushed Ice

Your favorite mixes—Ice Cold

*
Maple-Rock Distributors, Inc.

eee ee ee ee ee eee ne
RRP eRr Es Ope Ge Gt ge ae ge ee ee ee ee eee eee ee ee Se eS ee ee ee

 

 

 

 

 

Phone HO 3-2168
ale ae he Be Be he Be Be Be Be Be Be Be Be Be Be Be Ba Be Be Ba Bs Bc Bo Ba Be Be Be Be Bao Be Be Be Ba Be Bee Bo Be Bo Berle Bp te te ote 2. 2.
eee eee eee eee eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeereorerererererereeemert'rte"wrrewwre
er
Boe sSeo se ae Be Be Be Ba Be Be Ba dda a Ba Ba Ba Ba da Ba Bae de
TTT ss ss es es ee ee eS ee ee ee

 

White’s Music
Store

(Opposite State Theater)
}
Phonographs—Hi-Fi

,

b

>

>

>

; College Outlines

> e
marx Outlines

H Outl

>

}

>

7

:

>

>

>

,

>

Made Simple Series

<
>
Z
Jj
ee]
©
QO
S
lj
n
a0
©
m
-
-
L
tT
:
0
a
~

try our

The Book Shop

W. Washington Street

Barrons Series
Data Guides
Vocabulary Cards

i i i i i i ll

ii il hia hina dd di dd

 

Expert Repair Service

 

1

5 W. Nelson St.
HO 3-3522

Lexington, Va.

L222 2 2S DD SD ee DS 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2 2. 2 oo 2
eS ee ee ee ee

 

“Sh, ie Be Be Bie Sg Se Bie Bg he he Be Be Be Be Be Be Me Be Be Be Me Bo Bo Be Me Be Boe Bete te ete
OS ES SE Se eS SS SS SS ST eee eee

 

 

>
-
=
tr
yo
J
Oo
ie

eeeece |

$ Spring is in

$ The Lexington Launderama is
ein

$ Take advantage of both!

® The Launderama is fully attended
@ and located across from the Lyric.

STUDENT OPERATED
Under New Management

we

 

 

   

STUDENTS ACCOUNTS INVITED HERE
Member F. D. I. C.

 

 

By RANDY COLE

A powerful Johns Hopkins squad
scored practically at will as it rolled
over the W&L lacrosse team for its
seventh win in as many collegiate
starts. The final score was 17-2.

The Blue Jays poured in four
goals in the first period and six
in the second to run up a 10-1
halftime lead. They added two
goals in the third period and five
in the fourth to close out the day.

Roy Mayne, Jerry Schmidt, Henry
Ciccarone, Pat Mahoney, and Dick
Webster were the big guns for the
Blue Jays, while Hunter Tracht and
Charlie Gummey were the standouts
for Washington and Lee.

Mayne scored five goals and had

goals and had one assist, and Webs-
ter contributed ten assists. Hunter
Tracht and Charlie Gummey were
the only scorers for the Generals.
Tracht scored W&L’s first goal after
Johns Hopkins had scored six times.
Gummey got the Generals’ other
goal at the end of the third period.
making the score 12-2.

Jerry Schmidt made the out-
standing play of the day when he
intercepted a Washington and Lee
pass on the W&L side of midfield
and went all the way, scoring
against Herb Tinley on a one-on-
one situation.

Johns Hopkins was penalized 15
yards to six for Washington and Lee.
In the goal tending department
Greenwood had 11 and Buchner had
two for Johns Hopkins, while Tin-
ley had 13, Noonan had one, and
Rankin had none for the Generals.

Coach McHenry was not partic-
ularly disheartened about the Gen-
erals’ defeat. He feels that Hop-
kins is the number one team in

(Continued on page 4)

Johns Hopkins Routs Lacrosse Team 1

three assists, Mahoney scored three | r

7-2

*

hy,

 

Midfielder Charlie Gummey gives hard check to the midriff of a Johns
Hopkins defenseman during Saturday’s game. The Blue Jays won the
contest 17-2. The game was played on Wilson Field.

—Photo by Young

 

 

The farther smoke
travels Ajr-Softened,

$
ithe smoother
& it tastes

Join t

 

the milder, the cooler,

SATISFIER!

Rally ‘round the king that goes all out to please your
taste. Every satisfying puff is A/r-Softened to

enrich the flavor and make it mild. Special porous
paper lets you draw fresh air into the full king length
of top-tobacco, straight Grade-A all the way.

 

    
   

Oo

  

LD) KING

)

4

a

}

— a |
© liggett & Myers Tobacco Co,
 

 

 

 

Page 4

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

Dr. Allen Ragan Presents

Paper at State Meeting
(Continued from page 2)

During the business session of the
meeting, former presidents of the
organization were presented with
certificates of commendation for their
service. Five Washington and Lee
professors have served as president,
including Dr. Robert Henry Tucker,
of Richmond, former dean of the
university and economics professor,
emeritus; the late Dr. Glover D.
Hancock, former dean of the Com-
merce School; Professors Moger,
Griffith, and Crenshaw.

Dr. Tucker was described at the
meeting as a man chiefly responsible
for the success of the association
during its early stages.

 

Philip Morris
Contest Ends

The 1961 Philip Morris Brand
Round-Up ends tomorrow at 2 p.m.
Campus Representative Billy Mar-
tin says that all entries are to be
turned in to him in the basement of
the Student Union between 2 and
4 p.m. No entries will be accepted
after that time. The prizes will be
presented at 4.

 

Mahan Awards

Announced
(Continued from page 1)

This year there was only one
freshman prose award, and no soph-
omore prose award, while there were
two junior prose awards and two
awards in verse.

Mahan Award winners of unusual
ability are sometimes published in
Shenandoah.

Award-winning entries become
the property of the English depart-
ment.

 

STATE

LEXINGTON, VA.
|_MOBART 3-3424 |

 

 

ONE WEEK
Starting Hhursday, May 4

ee

 

   
  

WALT DiSNEY'S

 

\

@ NEW ALL-CARTOON FEATURE
& @
° 2
2 ®
8 3
’ Dalmatians ¢
- Daimanans «
2
*.plew/ CARTOON Gas and MUSC/®

eseaved by WOR FISTS Setrbetes Ge tee Quai GSR FRONRETONS

 

 

 

 

Qoesooosoooosoosorlsolly

Eichmann Trial Has Not Been
Expected Propaganda Exhibit

By ED NORTON

The trial of Adolph Eichmann in
Jerusalem moves into its third week
today. Few trials in the history of
law have aroused so many issues—
both legal and moral—as the trial of
this man accused of murdering six
million Jews. During the proceed-
ings of the past two weeks, however,
several of these questions seem to
have moved from the realm of doubt
and can now be evaluated more
clearly.

One of the first issues raised was
that of the legality of the trial—
whether or not Israel has the right
to try Eichmann. This was the first
question raised by Eichmann’s at-
torney, Robert Servetius. The wealth
of evidence, the citing of numerous
legal precedents (i.e., the United
States Supreme Court ruling that} Many broader issues are underly-
war criminals may be punished by! ing the Eichmann case. What the
any soverign state no matter when) reverberations of the many moral
or where the crime was committed) | issues will be remains to be seen.
submitted by prosecuting attorney | And how much the uncovering of
Gideon Hausner has established be-| Nazi war atrocities pricks the
yond question the validity of Is-| world’s conscience will be difficult
rael’s right to try Eichmann. ; to evaluate for some time.

tion or the state of Israel with at-
tempting to stage a drama for prop-
aganda purposes. The undeniable but
ugly truth of the story Hausner
told simply destroys this accusation.

The purpose of the Eichmann trial
as far as the state of Israel is con-
cerned now becomes more clear. It
is not for propaganda purposes that
Eichmann is standing trial; neither
is it an attempt to reopen old
wounds. Prime Minister David Benn
Gurion stated very precisely Israel’s
position. “It is not out of revenge
that the Israel government placed
Eichmann on trial before a Jewish
court in the state of Israel. We, the
sovereign Jewish people in Israel,
are seeking atonement for the blood
of six million Jews who were killed
because they were Jews.”

 

(Continued from page 2)

EC Replies

Newcomb Hall bulletin board, and
the Tucker Hall bulletin board.

5. There is no explicit provision
for the Law School as such to par-
ticipate in the nominating conven-
tion. It is felt by this Committee that
the law students are to be consid-
ered as represented by their own
fraternities or as members of the
student body not affiliated with fra-
ternities. In view of this ambiguity
in the Constitution, the Executive
Committee has made a recommen-
dation to the incoming student body
officers to take steps to remedy any
inequities which now exist.

 

Tennis Team Wins
(Continued from page 3)

show their prowess this Saturday
when they meet the opposing team
from Hampton-Sydney here. This
coming Monday they are again chal-
lenged on their own courts whey
they meet their old rivals from the
University of Virginia.

 

 

Propaganda Show?

A second questionable aspect of
the Eichmann trial was whether or
not the proceeding would become
merely a propaganda or show trial.
Last week, Hausner read a minutely
detailed document outlining what
the Jews call “the Nazi Holocaust.”
It required the better part of two
days to deliver and even then was
incomplete. The atmosphere in the
court room during these two days
could hardly have been undramatic
and uncharged with emotion. But
one hardly can accuse the prosecu-

| a Be

TUES.-WED.

Lacrosse Team

Loses 17-2
(Continued from page 3)

the country. Coach Bob feels that
the Generals did all right against a
team as powerful and as versatile
as Hopkins. The Generals took
twenty-one shots, and were con-
sistently hitting most of them
right in the goal-scoring area.

Johns Hopkins has two more
games left, while the Generals have
two also. The Blue Jays will play
Navy, last year’s national cham-
pions, on May 13 and will vie against
Maryland a week later. The Generals
will complete the season on May 6
against Chestertown, and on May 13
against the University of Virginia.
Both are away games.

 

 

 

 

   
  

 

The Titan Who |

  
   
       
 

  

aeteret tte | ROBERT ROSSEN man, «| || CCCP CCCCCCCCCCCR CCC SOOC®
‘as TON + FREDRIC MARCH
a SS, am MYERS

HARDWARE
COMPANY

 

 

 

 

5

ee eee aS eee Se Ss eS ee ee

Shirt Service as You Like it
Quality Cleaning and Pressing
UNIVERSITY CLEANERS
HO 3-3622
*

“Your Campus Neighbors”

 

 

ceeengeelleee

The Southern Inn

Cordially invites you to make this your headquarters for good food
Here you get the best food for the most reasonable prices

 

 

Our Specialties:
Steaks, Chicken, Country Ham, and the best sandwiches
in town

Meet your friends here

LEXINGTON
CLEANERS

Phone HO 3-3813 108 S. Jefferson

 

 

 

 

 

 

; IDEAL :
* BARBER SHOP :
: QUICK SERVICE i
eeeerrr errr rrr TTT TTT Ty
For those extra pieces
of

FURNITURE

for your room

see our stock

before buying

8
VARNER AND POLE

 

 

 

 

LLEEEEEEEE ELE ELE ELE
THE NEW

White Top
Restaurant
*

A personal invitation
to the
Students
Try our delicious foods
Route 60 East

7
|
|
:

fe ofe ode fe oe oe olen eoderberte bebe ode obeeiebehe eb

 

(=

Store Your Winter Clothes
With Us

Fully Insured
PAY NEXT FALL

ROCKBRIDGE LAUNDRY

and

DRY CLEANERS

 

 

 

 

 

The First National Bank

of Lexington
*
has special checking accounts

for students

 

 

Radio Hospital
*
Radio, TV, Phonograph
Sales and Service

*
HO 3-3531

 

 

Letters To The Editor

 

SIPA Girls React
(Continued from page 2)

For instance:

On fraternities: “Boys...lots of
boys...I’m not afraid to go in...
boys and parties and drinking... a
blast...sorority girls like them”
And a determined “If we're asked,
we'll go.”

On drunks: “You’re gonna find
them everywhere (with a resigning
sigh)... Let them stay away from
me (apparently determined).”

On where they’re staying: “Robert
E. Lee... Mayflower...Green Val-
ley...”And a puzzled “at some old
lady’s house.”

On why they came: “What???...
for a little of both—parties and
learning something... to support Mo
Shumate, our candidate for presi-
dent” (obviously a lucky lad). A
shameless, “Seariously? Or for fun?
Which would you all perefer?” And
a final truism, “I came to get new
ideas.” Yea, on yearbooks.

6. If the statement was made, it
was the individuals concerned who
were voicing their personal opinions
without the sanction of the Commit-
tee. To make such a statement would
be direct codification of the Honor
System—a policy from which the
Committee has refrained in the past.

THE EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE

Greyford Charges
(Continued from page 2)
Camp, though work done at Summer
Camp clearly affects one’s status as a
student at W&L. On what authority
was this done, with what reasons,

and why was it not publicized?

I think it is clear that the Con-
stitution has been violated by cer-
tain members of the EC. Those mem-
bers should be held to account for
their actions.

 

GRAYFRED GRAY

Ted’s Steak House
Finest Foods
Choice Meats

Ww
SUNDAY DINNERS

Route 60 Buena Vista

 

SSSHNSSSSSSSHSSSSOSSSOSSCCSE
SOCOSSSSOSSSSSSOCSSEFeOE

 

 

Open a convenient student Checking account
TODAY

at

Rockbridge National Bank

Member Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

   

WON'T
FALL

DOWN
UNLESS

YOU
DON!

The Adler Shape-Up
is guaranteed not to
fall down or your
money back! It’s the
first cotton crew
sock that is. In men’s
sizes, white 79¢,
eight great Ivy col-
ors, 89¢ a pair. At
fine stores.

ADLER

SHAPE UP

 

THE SHAPE-UP, BY ADLER, AVAILABLE IN WHITE AND COLORS AT

THOMAS, LTD.
 

FRIDAY
Editon

KRing-tum Phi

Washington and Lee Semi-Weekly Newspaper

FRIDAY
Edition

 

Volume LXI

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA, MAY 5, 1961

—

Number 54

 

Candidates
In Class Elections

Rising Senior Class

  

Galef

  

Senior Executive Committeemen:

Steve Galef, ZBT
Tom Luthy, Delt
Rosie Page, SAE
Steve Rutledge, Phi Gam

ee

   

Commander

President:

 

Charles Commander, Phi Delt
Jim Russ, Phi Psi

Arts vice president:

Pearce Hardwick, Beta
Spud Slater, PEP

Commerce vice president:

Dunlop Ecker, Kappa Sig
Bo DuBose, PiKA

Science vice president:

Charles Neimeyer, Pi Kap
Mike Spalding, Phi Delt

Secretary:

John Boyle, Lambda Chi
Dave Beale, DU

Historian:

Roy Goodwin, KA
George Peters, SPE

on

  

Butler

Rising Junior Class

Edwards

Junior Executive Committeeman:

Meade Christian, Phi Gam
Tommy Edwards, Phi Kap

President:

Lanny Butler, SAE
Jack Cover, SPE

Vice president:

John Refo, Sigma Chi
Bob Payne, Delt

Secretary:

Dave Bevans, PiKA
Andy Leonard, Lambda Chi

Historian:

Bill Boardman, Beta
Dick Herman, PEP
(Continued on page 4)

 

Notices

All students who have not paid
or requested that statements be sent
home for their $25 spring registra-
tion fee are requested to do so im-
mediately. They can pay at the
Treasurer’s office any time from 8:30
a.m. to 4 p.m. (DST) daily.

The Executive Committee is now
receiving applications for the Assim-
ilation, Student Library, and Cold
Check Committee for next year.

All applications must be submitted
in writing to Steve Suttle not later
than Wednesday, May 10.

 

  

dezvous area,

 

Performances begin at 8:30 p.m.
HO 3-2814.

 

ge Se i

Tim Morton and Josephine Unger appear in George Bernard Shaw’s
“The Man of Destiny,” to be presented along with “The Marriage Proposal,”
by Anton Chekov, Tuesday through Friday at the Troubadour Theatre.

Seats may be reserved by calling

 

As Reported by Harvey Allen,
“Official War Correspondent”

FROM THE FIELD, NORTHWEST
OF LIBERTY HALL RUINS—At
precisely 1400 (2:00) yesterday af-
ternoon the W&L ROTC Battle
Group, under the command of Cadet
Col. Nathan P. B. Simpson, moved
out from the area in front of Dore-
mus Gymnasium and headed for a
then undisclosed rendevous with
four H-21 helicopters (Flying Ba-
nanas), from Fort Bragg, N. C.

Dubbed “Operation Whirly Bird”
by this correspondent, the tactical
problem was to move the entire Bat-
tle Group force in column forma-
tion from the gym area to a point
north-west of the school, load mem-
bers of the raid forces in turn aboard
the helicopters, and airlift to the
Lexington Airport.

Upon landing at the airport the
raid forces disembarked, pulling dar-
ing daylight raids on the surprised
airport personnel. Within minutes,
each succeeding force reboarded the
helicopters and returned to the ron-
where a new raid

 

Fishwick Publishes Book

In American South Series

“Sleeping Beauty and Her Suitors:
The South in the Sixties,” by Mar-
shall Fishwick, was published by
Wesleyan College this week as the
initial volume in a new paperback
series dealing with the American
South.

Dr. Fishwick, Professor of Ameri-
can studies at Washington and Lee,
presented the material in shorter
form as the 1960 Lamar Memorial
Lectures in Georgia. He parallels
Southern history since the Civil War
with the legend of Sleeping Beauty.
The “five suitors” who have courted
her favor, he says, are Old South,
New South, Traditional South,
Changing South, and World South.
Only the last one can bring the
Princess to life in 1961, he concludes.

The lecture series and publica-
tion program were made possible
by an alumnae of Wesleyan College,
Eugenia Dorthy Blount Lamar,
whose aim was “the permanent pres-
ervation of the values of Southern
culture, history, and
Earlier Lamar lecturers have in-
cluded Dr. Charles Anderson of
Johns Hopkins University, Dr. Ru-
pert Vance of the University

 

son of Vanderbilt University.

literature.” |

ROTC Corps Takes Local Airport
Helicopter Lift Aids Aggressors

force loaded aboad and went though
the same operation.

Going in order of companies, the
force was composed of “Day’s Dar-
lings” (Co. A), “Bryan’s Bushwack-
ers” (Co. B), “Street’s Raiders”
(Co. C.), “Shugart’s Marauders” (Co.
D), “Bowie’s Sharpshooters” (Co.
E), and “Pardington’s Panthers”
(Band Company).

Each individual raid force was
composed of twenty men, ten in
each helicopter, which completed its
mission within the span of about
twenty minutes, from airlift to re-
turning time.

Loading and unloading in true
combat spirit, the entire operation
sonsumed less than two hours, point-
ing up the tactical advantages of hel-
icopters as to speed and surprise
in such an operation. Mainly, how-
ever, the exercise was generally to
familiarize each cadet with heli-
copters.

(Continued on page 4)

290 miles down range..

 

Butler, Bridewell, Henry
Gain Top Assignments
On Friday’s Editorial Staff

Bill Roberts, editor-elect of the
Friday edition of the Ring-tum Phi
announced this week that Lanny
Butler will be managing editor of
the Friday edition next year. Other
appointments include Bob Bridewell,
news editor; Steve Henry, sports edi-
tor; and Bill Bowen, photography
editor.

The remaining members of the
Friday editorial staff will be an-
nounced next week.

Butler, the new managing editor
is a rising junior from Memphis,
Tenn. He was an assistant managing
editor of the Tuesday edition this
year. He is treasurer of SWMSFC,
a Dean’s List student, and a foot-
ball letterman.

Bridewell is a rising junior from
Tyler, Texas. He was news editor
of the Tuesday Ring-tum Phi this
year. He is vice president of his
fraternity and a member of the
golf team.

Sports Editor

Henry, a rising junior from Mon-
roe, La., was an associate editor
of the Tuesday edition this year
and occasional columnist. He won
a Mahan Award in creative writing
last year as a freshman. He is a
member of the golf team.

Bowen, a rising junior from
Brooklyn, New York, was photogra-
pher for the Friday edition this
year. He is tentatively set to super-
vise photography for both editions
of the Ring-tum Phi. He will also
have increased editorial responsibil-
ities.

There are still openings on the
Friday edition staff for associate
editors, assistant sports editors,
columnists, and reporters. There will
| be a meeting of all students who
have been invited to join the staff
and other’ interested students
Wednesday at 2 p.m. in the Student
' Union.

 

 

 

Ogilvie.

 

Satie

gh
OE So led ER lle tate a otis

At the annual president’s review by the Washington and Lee ROTC
of | battalion yesterday, President Cole awarded Super Cadet Ribbons to
North Carolina, and Donald David-| (l-r) Nathan Simpson, Charles Dowman, John Thurmond, and Buck

 

U.S. SENDS CDR. SHEPARD
ALOFT FOR 15 MINUTES

Astronaut Reports To Ground,
Operates Rockets During Shot

CAPE CANAVERAL, Fla.
Shepard has completed America’s first manned space flight. A
Redstone Rocket lifted the space capsule from its launching
pad at Cape Canaveral. About 25 minutes later, recovery heli-
copters lifted Shepard to the deck of an aircraft carrier about

(AP)—Astronaut Alan

The rocket and capsule were launched at 10:34 a.m.
=

(EDT). The Redstone roared away
as thousands watched from nearby
beaches while untold numbers of
Americans watched on television.
After the launching two jet fighter
planes sped over the Cape to ob-
serve the flight and recovery.

During the short flight, Shephard
switched to manual controls and
reported that the view was beautiful.
Then he fired the reverse Rockets.
All the while, he reported that
everything was going smoothly. Then
the first, and later, the main para-
chute opened. After that, the cap-
sule began floating to the water.
The capsule hit the water with
three helicopters hovering over it.

The pickup from the Atlantic oc-
curred at 10:53, just 19 minutes after
the blastoff. His flight reached an
altitude of about 115 miles and lasted
15 minutes. He emerged from the
capsule when he hit the water, and
climbed into one of the helicopters
which converged on the recovery
area .

Shepard was transferred to the
aircraft carrier “Lake Champlain,”
where crewmen were under orders
not to speak to him. Doctors and
psychologists wanted him to tell
his story without having it colored
by ideas conveyed to him on his
return.

The purpose of today’s flight was
to determine if man can perform
useful chores in space. Shephard
proved conclusively that it could be
done. His flight also puts the U.S.
back into the space race with Russia.

Reported Facts and Figures

During Shephard’s flight, the
Space Agency said he reported facts
and figures just as any test pilot
would. The Space Agency has just
issued this announcement:

“Test number 108 is terminated.
This was the Pioneer U.S. Man in
Space Flight. The Mercury Space-
craft is on the deck of the aircraft
carrier “Lake Champlain” and the
helicopter is about to land. Shepard
is about to come out of the heli-
copter.”

For Shepard, the day began
shortly after 2 am. EDT when he
was awadened at Cape Canaveral.
First, he shaved and showered, ate
breakfast and then went through the
involved process of getting dressed.
Shortly before 5 a.m. EDT he board-
ed a van which took him to the
launching pad 3 and one-half miles
away. At the pad, he peered up at
the Redstone Rocket, then took an
elevator to the capsule atop the
rocket. The capsule was sealed at
7:10 am. EDT.

But then trouble set in, causing
a holdup in the countdown. First, the
skies clouded over. And a defect ap-
perently developed in an inverter
which converts the launching sys-
tem’s power from AC to DC current.
Shepard, meantime, remained in
the capsule for nearly 4 hours. Fin-
ally, the skies cleared and the defect
was corrected and the rocket and
capsule were sent skyward.

About 290 miles down the Atlantic
range from Cape Canaveral the car-
rier and a string of destroyers
waited for the capsule to parachute
into the sea, There was a moment of
anxiety last night when a fire broke
out below decks on the carrier. But
the blaze was quickly put out. The
plan is for the recovery ship to take
Shepard to a medical station at
Grand Bahama Island after the his-
toric flight. If all goes well, Shep-
hard will go to Washington in about
2: days.

The successful space shot brought
a rally in space stocks on the New
York Stock Exchange. other issues
were mixed.
Page 2

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

Che KRing-tum Phi
Friday Edition
Member of Virginia Intercollegiate Press Association

 

Platforms

The platforms of both parties in last week’s Big Seven
elections appeared hastily-assembled and, in some of their pro-
posals, poorly considered. Yet there was no doubt that most
of the student body feels there is a need for change in the
student government. The Independent Party, which had been
most strident in its cries for “Change!”’, swept the top three
student body offices by convincing majorities.

Six class Executive Committee representatives will be elect-
ed Monday. They, together with the Publications Board rep-
resentative and the freshman academic and law school repre-
sentatives, will have a lot of work to do next year.

It will be easy for the newly-elected executive committee
to sit back and say “Well, you know, many of those campaign
issues were blown up oversize. People don’t really care about
them that much.” Perhaps there will be fewer revolutionaries
to cry out for change at any cost, just to hear the sound of their

own long-neglected voice.

And Issues...

But the real issues will remain. Something has to be done
to bring University Dance Sets more in line with the present
social habits of the student body. Something has to be done
to keep the fraternity system alive (perhaps the biggest prob-
lem of all, and not one candidate has mentioned it) .

The Honor System is not in nearly so bad a shape as certain

parties would have it.

The University Party proposal to form a student legislative
assembly has real merit. But first, the student body leaders must
find out just how much broadening of the base of student
government the average student is willing to undertake.

And Name Calling

There has been some bitterness during this year’s elections.
Cries of “wild man,” “status quo-ers,” ““demagogue,” “machine

politician,” and “‘reactionary”

have echoed back and forth

across the campus. The name-calling has obscured issues more
than it has helped work them out.

William Jennings Bryan once likened liberals and conser-
vatives to a horse and plow. ‘“‘The liberals are the strong horses
pulling constantly ahead, straining at their traces,” he said, “the
conservatives are the plow, biting deep, making sure the ground
gets turned up. You need both horse and plow to open up a
field and you need both liberals and conservatives to run a

country.”

We need both liberals and conservatives to run Washing-

ton and Lee.

v1.8, =

Welcome Alumni

This weekend will witness the reunion of representatives
from several former classes at Washington and Lee. For the
class of 1911, this occasion will mark the 50th anniversary of
their graduation. Other classes to be visiting the university this
Saturday are those of 1921, 1936 and 1957.

We would like to extend to those alumni returning to Wash-
ington and Lee a cordial welcome. We hope that you find on
the campus not only the marks of progress since your gradu-
ation, but also the same atmosphere charged with the vitality of
tradition that has always been W&L.

We would expect the student body to extend all courtesies
to the returning class representatives in an effort to make their

stay a rewarding one.

In Viewing The Past Campaign
Torpenscence Replaces Apathy
As New Campus Cliche

By ROBERT C. KETCHAM
Friday Columnist

I would like to submit a noun to
replace the familiar word splashed
about in newspapers, circulated
sheets and dining halls; apathy. A
lubberly like search evidenced the
fitting word to replace this worn
wonder of six letters.

With humble solicitude for the
reader I spell out the long needed
replacement: torpor, n., or further,
torpescence, n. The industrious may
flip pages to seek its true meaning
but the classic will understand when
it is mentioned that the perfect word
merely means to lie in the lap of
Morpheus.

Whitman once wrote, “I loaf and
invite my soul” yet this man believed
in a moving, restless America, On
this campus, small America that it
is, there has been more debate over
issues in the past year than this
writer has ever witnessed. Ir-
regardless of the concern over stu-
dent torpor of which much has
been written in the past there has
been a perceptable change.

In the early 1950’s much was writ-
ten about the campus life with its

 

disinterested, dilatory students. To-
day the contrary is true with News-
week’s reporting the receptions of
Goldwater and the popular soci-
oligist, Reisman, writing on rising
student concerns and involvement.

Post mortems are usually as dead
as a cadaver, whose only justifica-
tion is in the hands of a medical
student. Just as satire should be left
to the J. Swifts, so analysis to the
experts.

It is too easy for the mind to shine
up rememberances (our elders cel-
ebrating the civil war) rather than
coping with the present day reali-
ties. The immediate example at this
point is the honor system; the aver-
age student has accepted the system
as he inherited it, however, when
it was brought to the attention of
the student body there was enough
momentum to actually amend it.

No one needs to be reminded of
the banter and talk of the recent
pre-election period. The follow-up is
the most important phase. Many per-
sons ask, what will it all mean, or
state more cynically that torpor
will return, that it was all a hoax.

  

RES IPSA LOQUITUR

 

Now that it has again become safe
to walk around outside without
being hit by a
platform, I’ve be-
gun to walk
around outside.
And one of the
best places that I
know to walk
around in is the
Lyric. This is not
because the walk
is enjoyable, but
because it is im-
possible to really
sit down. But I
don’t want to say anything against
Mr. Side’s theatre, because I’m all
for the theatre. As a matter of fact,
I'm writing this column especially
for Mr. Side and his theatre. And
as soon as everyone is finished din-
ner after reading this little bit, I
think it would be nice for us all
to go outside and raise a big cheer
for Mr. Side and his theatre. And if
anybody really feels like it, Mr.
Daves wouldn’t mind a big cheer
either.

I hadn’t originally planned to put
on a big campaign for the flicks in

 

Craven

 

Four Professors
Receive Grants

Four Washington and Lee profes-
sors have been awarded grants for
summer study and research by the
Research Council of the University
Center in Virginia, Inc., Dean of the
College William W. Pusey, HI, an-
nounced Wednesday.

They are Dr. Allen Moger, pro-
fessor of history; Dr. Leon F. Sen-
sabaugh, professor of history; Dr.
James S. Patty, associate professor
of romance languages and Dr. Paul
C. Hayner, associate professor of
philosophy and religion.

Dr. Moger will continue work on a
book, Virginia in Transition: 1880-
1914, Dr. Sensabaugh will gather ma-
terial on United States-Brazilian re-
lations at the National Archives and
State Department in Washington.

Dr. Patty will spend a month in
France where he will complete re-
search on Hippolyte Babou, a con-
temporary of Baudelaire. Dr. Hayner
will conduct research at Harvard on
a book he is preparing on the philos-
ophy of religion.

Earlier this year, Dean Pusey an-
nounced grants to eleven other pro-
fessors for research and study made
possible through Washington and
Lee’s own John M. Glenn Research
Program.

 

Alumni Reunion
For Four Classes

Begins Today

Anniversary reunions for the
classes of 1911, 1921, 1936, and 1955
will be held this weekend for Wash-
ington and Lee alumni.

From 250 to 300 alumni and wives
are expected to attend the three-
day event which got underway at
2 p.m. today.

Highlights of the reunions will be
class banquets tomorrow evening, a
special report on the “state of the
university” by top administrative
officers in Lee Chapel tomorrow
morning, and an address by Presi-
dent Fred C. Cole at a general
luncheon meeting tomorrow.

The Troubadours will present a
special performance of George Bar-
nard Shaw’s The Man of Destiny
for alumni at the Troubadour Thea-
ter tonight.

Other items on a packed program
include a reception at the President’s
Home this afternoon, campus tours,
a golf tournament for alumni, a Sat-
urday morning coffee hour, a “jam-
boree” following the class banquets,
and Sunday morning worship in Lee
Chapel.

Anniversary class reunions have
been conducted for seven years
through the cooperation of the alum-
ni association.

 

Composition By Stewart
Symposium To Play

“Prelude for Strings,” by Robert
Stewart, associate professor of mu-
sic and fine arts at Washington and
Lee, will be among the selections
played at the American University,
May 24-27, in Washington.

George Steiner, director of the
symposium, will conduct the Stewart
composition on May 24 in the event’s
opening program,

 

(Continued on page 4)

(Continued on page 4)

this column, for I was going to give
the true story about why the bells
don’t ring anymore on Sundays
like they used to.

I've been doing some research on
that, and it was pretty interesting
and I thought you all should know.
As the legend goes, they were given
(the bells, that is) to the school
by the WCTU under the condition
that they be rung every fifteen
minutes every Sunday of every
year. And they were rung with
some regularity, too, from Prohibi-
tion on. Except that they’ve stopped
this year, or it could have been last
year.

Nobody seems to know exactly
when they stopped ringing, because
nobody gave a damn anyway, and
now that they’re gone nobody still
gives a damn. As a matter of fact,
in an informal pool I took on the
colonnade last Sunday morning
about eleven o'clock, the only pollee,
a freshman, said, “what bells? I
don’t hear any bells. You’d better
go back to bed, buddy.” So I went
back to bed, but I got up in time to
go to Sunday afternoon flick, which
is what this column is about.

Astually this column is really not
about the Sunday afternoon flick, but
it is about the flicks, and especially
Mr. Side and his theatre. The legend

Craven Dodges Party Platforms
Then Suggests “Shout For Side”

of his theatre is something much
akin to the legend of the bells. It’s
sort of a remote kinship with the
WCTU, which was opposed as a
body to the Sunday afternoon flicks
because the students couldn’t hear
the bells if they were in the flicks,
and therefore their hung-over heads
wouldn’t hurt, and they wouldn’t
think about giving up drinking.

Although it is not generally con-
ceded, the WCTU is a super-subtle
group, and they oppose issues on
an almost sub-conscious level. Of
course they weren’t officially against
Mr. Side and his Sunday afternoon
flicks, but they were privately op-
posed. And that is one of the rea-
sons that the bells were installed.
They were intended to give the
sober students pleasure, and the
unsober students agony all through
the day.

But again I’ve digressed. What I
have wanted to do is to start another
campaign for “Ed Side for an Oscar”
on the basis of the fact that the
Lyric is the only theatre in the
world that can show Brother Rat
when the regular flick doesn’t show
up. Let’s hear it tonight for Mr.
Side and his theatre. And maybe
even a little cry should go up for
the WCTU and their finally silent

 

 

Carnival Is Motley

belles.
Crowd

Of Girls, Apes And People

By STEVE HENRY

Do you know what a carnival is?

It is bright lights and fat-faced
barkers and dirty hill people and
college students all mixed into one
somehow compatible whole.

That is the way it was at Lynch-
burg.

We, like everyone else, went over
the hill to see the girls.

They perform in dimly lighted
truck-tent combinations, which smell
of sawdust and tobacco juice.

For the first time that we remem-
ber, we nearly got sick, right on the
spot. No one would have noticed
if we had.

The girls are the poorest slobs of
all the slobs in the world. After the
show, we asked one of them how
she ever got in the trade.

She grunted a stream of profanity
which more or less blew the theory
that she was essentially a good girl
gone bad.

And that was that.

Later, we made it to one sideshow
that was worth the time and money.
It cost just fifty cents to see the
greatest comedy routine ever de-
vised.

The sign said “See Man Fight
Savage Gorrilla.” We decided that
the fix was on. Who would possibly
be stupid enough to get in a fight
ring with a gorilla. Then we re-
membered where we were.

The monk entered the ring first
wearing a muzzle and boxing gloves.
His pre-fight calisthenics were worth
the fare.

He jumped, he kicked, he made
jungle noises.

The crowd went wild, all 500 of
them.

There was a little old lady not
over four feet tall standing in front
of us. She could not possibly have
seen anything that was going on.
Yet she was laughing gleefully and
screaming at the top of her lungs.

The crowd wanted blood, either
man’s or ape’s, and it was soon to
get its wish.

Enter the ring one gigantic Slob-
bus Americanus, six feet and 250
pounds if he weighed an inch. He
had on boxing gloves and a foot-
ball helmet, and looked like a pro

linebacker out to make a few extra
bills.

The monk, however, was not too
pleased. He sulked in his corner for
a few seconds, while his opponent
circled cautiously. Then he attacked.

The ape grabbed his antagonist’s
feet, threw him to the mat, yanked
off the football helmet, and pro-
ceeded to clobber the guy.

Then the monk retreated to a
neutral corner.

The challenger, blood streaming
from his nose, took the offensive
and charged his opponent, which
could have been fatal.

The ape merely repeated the same
process, only this time he tore off
| the guy’s shirt and opened an even
bigger cut over one of the man’s
eyes.

The crowd was in ecstacy. We ex-
pected the thumbs down notice
anytime.

We heard one particularly loud
comment from somewhere in the
rear:

“Shucks, I wouldn’t get in thar
for a bottle of good liquor,” which
is probably the greatest testimonial
as to the prowess of the monk.

Finally the challenger threw in
the towel. He collected his five dol-
lars (he made one bill for every
minute in the ring) and fled away.

We were swept out on to the
midway by the crowd, where we
began reflecting on the entire pro-
duction.

Far be it from us to call the car-
nival “good, clean, American fun.”
Rather we would somewhat hypoc-
critically call it the most degrading,
degenerate spectacle available in this
fair state.

We say “hypocritically” because
we went to the thing in the first
place, and would probably do so
again if the opportunity were pre-
sented.

Still, we cannot help pondering
how and why the state of Virginia,
which sees ever so much wrong with
selling a mixed drink over a bar,
can allow and apparently condone a
carnival such as the one at Lynch-
burg last week to be presented.

Two state troopers, who watched
the girlie show in uniform, had no
comment on the situation.

Nor do we.

 

 

 

  

(AND YOURE WEAK,
AND SPINELESS
AND WISHY-

    

 

  
 

  

SHE REALLY TOOK YOU
APART, DIDN'T SHE,
CHARLIE BROWN ?

     

 

 

 

 

LINE BY LINE...

 

 

 

 

Aa
UH HUH...STEP BY STEP, | 41 | YOU SOUND LIKE A VICTIM
VERSE BY VERSE AND OF HIGHER CRITICISM !

   

 

 

 

 

 

LETTERS

Epi troR

To the Editor:

I wonder if a now prominent
gentleman of our campus, Mr. Gray-
fred B. Gray, has begun to lose that
sense of proportion which a friend
of his mentions in a recent article
appearing in the Ring-tum Phi. Cer-
tainly Mr. Gray has staunchly de-
fended his convictions; this is ad-
mirable, and I am sure some of us
are even a bit jealous of Mr. Gray’s
accomplishments in the light of his
initial opposition. Out of a vague
and nebulous beginning has come
constructive criticism.

But now I ask you Mr. Gray,
aren’t you playing, as a boy, with
your intellectual integrity in order
to whet a newly acquired appetite,
passion if you will, for attention,
for the public spotlight? Haven’t
you lost your ability to perceive
yourself in proportion with the re-
mainder of the W&L World? Can
you honestly maintain that your re-
cent criticisms and charges directed
to the Executive Committee were not
in the least bit pretentious? Why
don’t you now call the Executive
Committee a toy? You might as well
for I doubt that your attacking them
as you recently did will lead you to
higher endeavours on this campus.
Stop for a moment, Mr. Gray. Con-
sider. Think. Hasn’t your judgment
become clouded?

 

BOB STREET

* * *

To the Student Body:

As candidates for the Executive
Committee class positions, we em-
phatically and sincerely reaffirm the
Independent Party Platform. These
are, essentially, the proposals which
the student body endorsed in last
week’s general elections. They are
the proposals which the newly-elect-
ed leaders of next year’s Executive
Committee supported, and which
they now reindorse.

This platform calls for:

1) A Convention of the student
body in the Fall of 1961 to consider
any constitutional revision which is
proposed.

2) A fact-finding group composed
of members designated by the EC
to act as a steering committee in
advance of this Convention.

3) More than two names to be
submitted for each position on the
campus election ballot, if more than
two men are so nominated at the
Nominating Convention.

4) Restricting the Assimilation
Committee’s enforcement of conven-
tional dress to the campus, alone.

5) Establishment of a_ respon-
sible student committee to act as an
advisory group in cases of social mis-
conduct.

6) Non-judicial meetings of the
Executive Committee open to the
student body, and publication of the
minutes of these meetings.

7) A change in the procedure of
Honor System trials; so that a stu-
dent is presented with the facts of
his case, before he exercises the
option of withdrawing from the Uni-
versity; and so that conviction of a
student would be decided by 9
votes, or a 3/4ths rather than a
2/3s majorty of the EC.

8) A more responsible effort on
the part of the EC to promote great-
er awareness and understanding of
the Honor System.

This last proposal is a good illus-
tration of the fact that the Indepen-
dent party platform is not revolu-
tionary or unrealistic. It is not un-
realistic to be prepared to accom-
plish in practical fashion whatever
change is called for. And it is not
unrealistic to be prepared to active-
ly uphold traditions that should be
upheld.

In short, we propose to maintain
what is worthwhile in student gov-
ernment—but to do this too in an
active manner. It is the “gravy-
train” which contributes the real
basis for the first part of the claims
about “experience and ability.” And
we hope to provide the opportunity
of proving our ability, and our sin-

(Continued on page 4)

CheRing-tum Phi

Friday Edition

The Ring-tum Phi is published Tues-
day and Friday during the college year.
It is printed by the Journalism Labor-
arene. Press, Washington and Lee Uni-
versity. The mailing address is Box
899, Lexington, Va,

Entered as second class matter Sep-
tember 20, 1946 at the Post Office, Lex-
ington, Va., under the act of March

 

National Advertising Representative:
The National Advertisers Service, Inc.,
420 Madison Ave., New York, N.Y.
Editor-in-Chief............... Nathan Simpson
Business Manager.............. Huntley Biggs

Editorial Board
Managing Editor................
Assistant Managi

 
    
    
   

Assistant Copy Editor. ..Dick Heard
Photography Editor................ Bill Bowen
Advertising Manager......Edward Holmes

Circulation Manager.......... Peter Agelesto

neem
THE RING-TUM PHI

Page 3

 

 

a

 

Take Off—Washington and Lee’s Ashley Wiltshire
hands off baton to Mike Shank for the anchor leg of the
mile relay against East Carolina College. Washington and
Lee lost the relay, but pounded East Carolina, 103-37.

VMI, UVA, W&M TOP OPPONENTS

 

Unbeaten W&L To Battle
For Top Rung In Va. Meet

Two months ago after W&L’s track
team whalloped High Point, 104-
36, in its opening meet, Coach Norm
Lord said, “That’s scalp number one,
only seven more to go.”

The track season is over except
for the state meet tomorrow at
Lynchburg, and the Generals have
“scalped” eight opponents.

Over a two-year period the
W&L track team can boast of a
15-0 record in dual meets.

This year’s team faced only one
serious challegener—Wake Forest—
on its way to an undefeated season.
The Generals topped Wake, 78-53,
but they slaughtered the rest of their
opponents.

The scores were W&L 103, East
Carolina, 37; W&L 94 1/3, Richmond
45 2/3; W&L 94 1/3, Elon 45 2/3;
W&L i111 1/3, Hampden-Sydney
28 2/3; W&L 80, Lynchburg 42; and
W&L 87 1/3, Randolph-Macon
34 2/3.

At first glance the schedule
seems to have been packed with

 

Gamber’s Triple In Tenth Puts
W&L By Hampden-Sydney, 6-5

By HARRY MEEM

Brice Gamber’s triple in the tenth
inning led the Generals’ baseball
team to its fourth straight win, a
6-5 decision over Hampden-Sydney.

W&L won this one the hard way.
They led the Tigers 5-1 through the
top of the eighth, then H-S jumped
starter Roy Carpenter for four runs
on two singles, a sacrifice, another
single, a walk, and a double.

Neither team scored in the ninth,
then Gamber tripled with two out
in the tenth, and scored on a wild

Colonials Edge
Golfers 5-3

The Washington and Lee golf
team, experiencing a let-down after
a fine state tournament perform-
ance, dropped a 5 1/2-3 1/2 decision
to George Washington University
yesterday.

Jack Vardaman and Grantham
Couch led the Generals to a 2 1/2-
1/2 lead in the first foursome play,
but W&L could get no more than
one point from the last two four-
somes.

In the second foursome, GW’s
Marvin Singman dropped Ronnie
Stewart 7-6, and Art Rosen defeated
Will Lee, one up. Stewart and Lee
also lost the best ball, giving GW
a clean sweep of all three points.

The story was about the same in
the third foursome, where the Gen-
erals could claim only one point on
a victory by sixth man Warren
Hughes.

Hughes defeated Howie Goldblatt,
5 and 4, but GW’s Steve Ruben
dropped W&L’s Steve Henry, three
and two. The Colonials also won
the best ball, four and two.

Vardaman, with a two over par
74, tied with GW’s Singman for
medalist honors.

The loss gives the Generals a six
and two season record. W&L winds
up its season against Randoph-
Macon next Tuesday.

 

State Tournament

At the state tournament played
on the Cascades in Hot Springs, the

(Continued on page 4)

 

>

|  Waggy’s Jewelers

; 35 S. Main Street

; Phone HO 3-4121

| THE HOME OF QUALITY
>

ill lll li tala dll nnn neil

 

 

 

and
Complete Formal Accessories
The
COLLEGE TOWN

Shop

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

pitch. Gamber needed help from
Phil Sharp in Hampden-Sydney’s
tenth, but got the win.

The Generals started early, as
usual. Buck Rose led off the first in-
ning with a walk, moved up when
Lane got on on an error, advanced
on Hobbs’ sacrifice, and scored on
Williams’ single.

They scored three runs in the
fourth. Park Gilmore took first on
a fielder’s choice, and Howard Mar-

 

tin singled. Buck Rose singled Gil-
more home. Chuck Lane walked,
and then Hobbs singled to bring
in two more runs.

Lane’s solo home run, his first
of the year, led off the sixth.

The win for the Generals brings
their season’s record to 7-4. Gamber
evened his record at 1-1.

The Generals next play Lynch-
burg College, Saturday at 23:0 on
Smith Field.

 

Gamber Hits

In Clutch,

Captures Farst Victory

Two of Washington and Lee’s pitchers have an unusual
distinction: they hit in the clutch.

Rookie lefthander Brice Gamber*

joined old hand Roy Carpenter as
a clutch-hitting pitcher Wednesday.

The tall freshman “Pretzel-Ben-
der” banged a long triple in the
tenth to give the Generals a 6-5 win
over Hampden-Sydney.

Gamber’s hit not only gave the
the Generals their seventh win of
the season against four losses but
handed him his first win on the
mound,

Carpenter gained his cultch-hitting
tag when he doubled in two runs in
the 13th to give the Generals a
6-4 win over William and Mary
early in the season,

Gamber, who had early season
problems on the mound, seems to
have found his pitching form as well
as his batting eye.

He pitched a three-hitter two
weeks ago at West Virginia but lost,
3-0. Wednesday he put down a
Hampden-Sydney rally in the eighth.

The Tigers collected four quick
runs off starter Carpenter in the
eighth to tie the score, 5-5. Gamber
came in with two out in the eighth

 

ATTENTION ¢

$ Spring is in

$The Lexington Launderama is
@in

«

eTake advantage of both!

$ The Launderama is fully attendede
$ and located across from the Lyric.

STUDENT OPERATED
Under New Management

 

 

and promptly proceeded to put out
the fire. In his two-inning relief
chore, Gamber struck out two and
allowed only one hit. The win made
his record 1-1.

It is not surprising that Gamber
stroked the game-winning hit Wed-
nesday. In high school he sported a
good batting average in addition to
a top pitching record.

Last year at Baltimore Poly High
School, Gamber hit 340 and com-
piled a 10-1 pitching record. In his
junior year he hit. 300 and posted a
5-0 mound mark.

Now that Coach Lyles has cor-
rected Gamber’s overstride in his
delivery, it looks like Gamber will
give the Generals a steady left-
handed pitcher.

 

 

i ie in i i

HICKMAN’S ESSO

South Main Street
HO 3-2024

pn ie lin ln lll ll ll len

PeEeEEeEeaaeeTeeEees
ROBERT E. LEE

 

+
: ;
z BARBERSHOP
$ David M. Moore :
3 Proprietor z
* *

PEPE EEE EHH hhh Shh bbe
SOOSCESOHHSSOHOHHOOSSOOEES

 

e
: TEXACO :
$ Super Service Station $
° Lexington, Virginia °
: Corner Main and Nelson :

DIXON’S

ESSO SERVICE CENTER
ROUTE 60 EAST IN LEXINGTON
Across from the White Top Resturant
HO 3-4214

Wash, Grease, Lube, Road Service

Charge Accounts Welcome

 

easy opponents. This is true in the
case of High Point, Elon, and East
Carolina. Whereas’ Richmond,
Lynchburg, Hampden-Sydney, and
Randolph-Macon just had lean
years in track.

The true test of the Generals’
strength comes tomorrow in the
state meet against such track power-
houses as Virginia, VMI, VPI, Wil-
liam and Mary, Norfolk William and

 

Mary, and Roanoke.

In sizing up the state meet, the
Lynchburg News predicted that VMI
would again win the state title. But
it also forecast that W&L, W&M and
Virginia would fight for second third,
and fourth. This could very well
happen.

The Generals were not too im-
pressive in their 87 1/3-34 2/3 win
over Randolph-Macon Wednesday.

 

JV Lacrosse Team Tops AMA,
Loses 7-0 To Virginia Frosh

The W&L JV lacrosse team had a busy week this week
as they rapped Augusta Military Academy, 6-1, and bowed to

the Virginia freshmen, 7-0.

Coach Charlie Stow’s crew, led by
Buck Ogilvie, Hal McClanahan, and
Ed Horton, make short work of
Augusta Wednesday as they jumped
off to a 4-1 halftime lead.

Louis Mongeau opened the Gen-
eral scoring with 4:47 elasped in
the first period.

McClanahan, Horton, and Ogilvie
combined to push the Generals into
their 4-1 halftime lead with a goal
each in the second period.

John Uhlig tallied the Generals’
only goal in the third period and
Chick Owen scored the final W&L
tally early in the fourth period.

The most excitement of the game
was a fourth-period brawl between
W&L’s Bob Payne and AMA’s Bill
Gray. Before the fight was over
both benches had emptied and
everyone was involved in the fray.
After the fight was broken up, both
Payne and Gray were ejected from
the game.

Wednesday the Generals were
the victims of a lacrosse rarity—a
shutout. Virginia’s frosh inflicted
the defeat, 7-0.

W&L goalie Pete Noonan played
a top notch game in the nets, turn-
ing back 16 Virginia shots.

The Virginia goalie did not have
much to worry about, making only
four saves during the game. Virginia
controlled the play, and when the
Generals did manage to get a shot,
it went wild.

John Beers and Stan Huff paced
the Virginia scoring with two goals
(Continued on page 4)

 

Charlie Gummey
...On Offense

 

The main reason was the bad con-
dition of R-M’s square track.

“Jungle” Jim Hickey, Mike
Shank, and Ed Croft were the only
double winners. Hickey won the
100 in 10.4 and the 220 in 24.0.
Croft took the high hurdles in 16.9
and the low hurdles in 26.5. Shank
won the mile and 2-mile.

Henry Sackett was the day’s top
performer. Sackett captured the
broad jump with the longest jump
of his career—21-8 1/4. Sackett
jumped 21 feet for the first time
in college against Greenbrier mil-
itary Academy Monday. Wednes-
day he made 21 feet on every jump.

Jack Kowalski and George Cruger
took up the slack created by the

(Continued on page 4)

 

Lacrosse Team
Plays Tomorrow

At Washington

The varsity lacrosse team travels
to Chestertown, Md., tomorrow, for
a game with Washington College.
Washington has beaten two teams
this year who have defeated the
Generals, Colgate and Hofstra.

The Washington game is the last
of the season before the Generals
finish up with the University of
Virginia here next Saturday. Coach
Bob McHenry plans to play all his
freshmen and sophomores tomorrow
to give them some game experience
for next year.

s * s

The tennis team goes for its sev-
enth victory of the year tomorrow
against Hampden-Sydney at Death
Valley. The netmen will face a
tough battle. Captain Billy Mc-
Williams is a doubtful starter at
the No. 1 singles position. If Mc-
Williams cannot play, Coach Wash-
burn will start freshman John Bak-
er in the No. 1 spot.

Coach Washburn says he will start
two other freshmen tomorrow—Jim
Mell in the singles and Bud Holl-
man on one of the doubles teams.

The Generals take on arch-rival
Virginia here on Monday. The Cava-
liers are very strong this year,
sporting an 8-2 record so far. Their
No. 1 man, Dave Dickenson, is un-
defeated in 10 matches.

 

    

how to lose your head!

The best way to lose your head is to use your head by using

‘Vaseline’ Hair Tonic on it. Most men use water with their
hair tonic — and ‘Vaseline’ Hair Tonic is specially made to

use with water! The 100%

pure grooming oil in ‘Vaseline’

Hair Tonic replaces the oil that water removes from your
hair. So to lose your head, keep your head well-groomed with
‘Vaseline’ Hair Tonic! And remember, just a little does a lot!

it’s clear twa
it’s clean...it’s

VASELINE

 

‘VASELINE* 13 A REGISTERECO TRADEMARK OF CHESEBROUGH-

 

 

aw. (he Matera Way

Cracts Ory Sealy ond
Lenre Beserett

  
 

 

 
    

 

 

 

 

TONIC

POND’S ING,
 

Page 4 THE RING-TUM: PHI
Candidates Golfers Fourth _ — Dr. Robert Whitaker Appointed
e n . es &
WIV IREGAP!. © (Continued from page.1) (Continued trem page 3) (Continued from page 3) | Agcistant Admissions Director

Rising Sophomore Class

 

Ogilvie Alfred

Croft Noell

Sohpomore Executive Committeeman:

Buck Ogilvie, Beta

Bill Noell
President:

Peter Alford, Phi Psi
Ed Croft, KA

Vice president:

Frank Wright, Sigma Nu
Jim Slyvester, Kappa Sig

Secretary:

Syd Butler, SAE
John McDaniel, Delt

Historian:

Richard McEnally, Lambda Chi

Barry. Greene, ZBT

 

 

JV Lacrosse Splits

(Continued from page 3)

each. Bob Roose scored one. goal
and two assists. Five Virginia

Notices

Pi Sigma Alpha will meet Thurs-
day at 7:30 p.m. in Newcomb 7. Elec-
tions will be held and Dr. Leyburn
will speak. Attendance of all mem-
bers is requested. 2

* * *

All students who have been con-
tacted about working on the Tuesday
staff of the Ring-tum Phi next year
will meet Friday afternoon at 1:30
p.m. in the student union. Attend-
ance is required.

 

Candidates’ Letter:
(Continued from page 2)

cere intentions of serving actively

on the Executive Committee

STEVE RUTLEDGE

TOM LUTHY

MEADE CHRISTIAN

BILL NOELL

 

goals were unassisted.

The first period was a 0-0 battle,
but Virginia broke the ice in the
second quarter and built up a 3-0
halftime lead. It added one goal
in the third period, and ended with
a three-goal onslaught in the final
period.

The Generals have one game re-
maining with Augusta Monday at
Fort Defiance.

 

General golfers streaked past Rich-
mond and all the Little Eight Schools
to capture fourth place over-all.

Led by defending medalist Jack
Vardaman’s 154, the Generals had
a team score of 634.

Virginia Tech won its second
straight golf crown with a 613.
William and Mary took second
with with 622 and Virginia grab-
bed third with 629.

In individual honors Vardaman
had a 78-78—154 which placed him
sixth behind Tech’s Joe Robinson,
who shot six over par, 148: Ran-
dolph-Macon’s Wayne Jackson.
Tech’s Ronnie Polane, W&M’s Dave |
Mance and Norfolk W&M’s Herb
Hooper.

Other W&L scores were Warren
Hughes, 82-74—156; Granthm Couch,
78-83—161; and Will Lee, 81-82—163.

The 36-hole tournament was play-
ed in the mud and rain on the Hot
Springs course.

Last year the Generals finished
sixth with a 653 and Vardaman tied

 

| for medalist honors: with a 155.

 

‘Kecham
(Continued from page 2)

It is ridiculous to come out for
faith, one might as well cry the old
gem, “you can be anything you
want to be in America.” However;
\if campus talk means anything, if
campaign platforms are more than
ballons, if Goldwater and Thomas,
sit-ins and the Peace Corps, assim-
ilation and dance-drinking are in-
dicative, then we shall have a
scamper year.

 

SDodge and Dodge Dart!
and Lancer

America’s First Fine

 

 

 

THE DUTCH INN

For Reservation Call
MRS. KATHERINE ADAMS

 

 

usiness
usiness
IERER’S

It’s Good
To Do
with

PHARMACY

 

 

 

STATE

LEXINGTON, VA
|_ HOBART 3-3424 |

 

 

NOW
SHOWING

O,2@:.0++Be-@ge@
_ ee

o lems LAR
@ YOURE AFTER...

   
      

 

WALT DisNEY'S

\

 

 

 

 

 

HO 3-3433

 

 

 

ECONOMY CAR
*

Rockbridge Motor Co.
INC.

Phone HObart 3-3146

 

wane

SUN.-MON.-TUES.

THE PRODUCERS OF
“CARRY ON NURSE”
ARE
CARRYING
ON
AGAIN!!!

 

 
 
 
 
 
   
   
   

 

 

 
 

A PETER ROGERS PRODUCTION
A COLUMBIA PICTURE RELEASE

absence. of Dave Monroe and paced
a W&L sweep of the shot. Kowalski
threw 43-6 1/2; Cruger, 41-6 1/2.

The only other General sweep
came in the mile where Shank took
first, Stoney Duffey grabbed -
ond, and Woody Wise finished
third. -

The Generals lost only two events,
the discus and the 440.

Generals’ other winners included
Skip Essex, 880, 2:04.2; Ed Myers,
pole vault, 12-0; and Robin Kell,
high jump, 5-9. ‘

 

Stewart Prelude
(Continued from page 2)

The prelude has been presented
previously by the Brevard Music
Center Orchestra under James C.
Phohl and the Atlanta Symphony
Orchestra under Henry Sopkin.

Other works by Stewart which
have had recent performances in-
clude “Five Visions” for woodwind
quintet at the 12th annual regional
composers forum at the University
of Alabama on April 29, and “Trio
No. 3, A Triptych” for violin, viola,
and cello, played for the first time
May 1 at Washington and Lee by
the Lywen Trio of Washington.

 

 

Hamric and Sheridan
JEWELERS

Watch and Jewelry Repair
Hand Engraving and Class Rings

HO 3-2022

 

 

pOoSoeserererrrrornrrrrs

Baker °
Ford Sales

o

BETTER DEALS

CLEARANCE
of lot for 1961 Models

om

 

 

TETLOW
TV Service

221 S. Main HO 3-2841

 

9 S&S DB GG es Be ee a se se a ste she she she she she she ole he he ae she of:
Oe ae of oe oe of of oho oe ope ope ope ope tye eg a tre ee eee eS Se eS ee Mat tet

Dr. Robert D. Whitaker, assistant
professor of chemistry at Washing-
ton and Lee, has been named assist-
ant director of admissions, President
Fred C. Cole announced Wednesday.

 

Whirly Birds
(Continued from page 1)

After all of the raid parties had
completed their missions and re-
turned, the Battle Group Staff, ac-
companied by Captain Hugh J. Hall,
went up for a general look at the
area, sweeping over Lexington and
the problem area twice.

Primary responsibility and plan-
ning for the operation was handled
at the problem level by Capt. Hall
for the Cadre and Cadet Major Jim
Vann for the Battle Group Staff.

The entire operation, “Operation
Whirley Bird,” was completed by
shortly after 4 p.m. yesterday after-
noon, and was hailed as being high-
ly successful and interesting for all
involved, from Battle Group Com-
mander to each individual squad
member. The “good guys” won
again.

 

Dr. Whitaker, 28, a Phi Beta Kap-
pa graduate of Washington and Lee
in 1955, will assist Director of Ad-
missions Frank J. Gilliam in office
interviews, school visitations, and in
selecting the entering classes for the
university.

Dr. Whitaker will continue to de-
vote approximately half of his time
to teaching, President Cole said.

“I think it will be extremely help-
ful to have a person of Dr. Whita-
ker’s scientific background working
with us in admissions,” President
Cole said. “With his help we hope
to interest more and better students
with special talents in science in
coming to Washington and Lee.”

Dr. Whitaker received his Ph.D.
in inorganic-physical chemistry at
the University of Florida in 1959 and
joined the Washington and Lee
faculty the same year. Earlier, he
had attended graduate school at
Yale University, where he was a
graduate assistant.

While at the University of Florida,
Dr. Whitaker served as a graduate
assistant, a teaching assistant, and a
duPont Teaching Fellow. He is a
native of Tampa, Fla.

 

eto hlotebbteth hele teh hele eeeeh

 

 

 

eH
e cau sy women pte 44
: USED: CARS
: and Save Time 3
* 3 Highway 60 East
* LEXINGTON * —
% TELEPHONE CO. = § | dannansnnmeaanenmnniniis
& +| — :
Pebbeedededededete tobe dete

IS ONLY
MINUTES
AWAY

 

 

 

 

Lexington
Laundro Matic

209 S. Main

*

HAND IRONED
SHIRTS

Dry Cleaning

 

Service

for your convenience

 

SPENCER

General Tire
536 E. Nelson Street

Best in Tires
GENERAL

Best in Recapping
Kraft Tread

 

New and Used Tires
FOR COMPACT CARS

 

SCOHOHSHOHSHOHHSHSHHSOHHOHSHOHHHHHHHHHHHHHHHOCSe

 

 

 

 

 

 

ON

PIEDMONT
, AIRLINES

 

Plan to fly
home soon on
Piedmont Alrlines,
Piedmont serves
colleges, prep-schools
and home towns all
across the.top
of the South

 

PIEDMONT
AIRLINES

serves ‘you. better
call Piedmont or your
Travel Agent.

 

 

NEW ALL-CARTOON FEATURE
& |
% One Hundred * 2 je a || P@CCCCO LOCO ELE LEE ORCE EOS
* and Qne % | 0000 0000000000000 0000000000 000000000 CCC OO COe
: és: FOR 800M RESERVATIONS—CALL HO 3-2151
@ jie
* Dalmatians 3 |: LEXINGTON MOTEL
“TecHNIcoLoR® @ le Large Rooms—U, S. 11 By-Pass South
8 cma and | muse /s ° > Free TV—Phones—Continental Breakfast
: Only Motel in corporate limits of Lexington
PeeeeeereeeessaoererTrs ee 0 08000 8OS8O 08000000800 S90099 09000000800 089080008
: R. L. Hess and Bro. § 7 )
ea JEWELERS é G
Lexington, Virginia : THE COLLE E IN N
Jo -2 e
3 BO 3-tm ? The Best Food in Town
ELE Dana aaa ehhh
American and Italian
’
—— s beni gga Catering to the Students, Faculty,
cri
yee or and Towns People
PURCHASE DRUGS OPEN SUNDAYS
HO 3-2211
Nes

 

 

 

 

_—

 

 

 

   

   
 

   

 

On Camps.

(Author of “I Was a T. Dwarf,” Many
Loves of Dobie Cilk

OLD GRADS NEVER DIE

In just a matter of weeks many of you will be graduating—

especially seniors.

You are of course eager to go out in the great world where
opportunities are limitless and deans nonexistent. At the same
time your hearts are heavy at the thought of losing touch with
so many classmates you have come to know and love.

It is my pleasant task today to assure you that graduation
need not mean losing touch with classmates; all you have to do
is jon the Alumni Association and every year you will receive
a bright, newsy, chatty bulletin, chock full of information about
all your old buddies.

—

‘Tras Seosed tour Md

Oh, what a red-letter day it is at my house, the day the
Alumni Bulletin arrives! I cancel all my engagements, take the
phone off the hook, dismiss my chiropractor, put the ocelot
outside, and settle down for an evening of pure pleasure with
the Bulletin and (need I add?) a good supply of Marlboro
Cigarettes.

Whenever I am having fun, a Marlboro makes the fun even
more fun. That filter, that flavor, that pack or box never fails
to heighten my pleasure whether I am watching the television
or playing buck euchre or knitting an afghan or reading Mad
or enjoying any other fun-filled pursuit you might name—ex-
cept, of course, spearfishing. But then, how much spearfishing
does one do in Clovis, New Mexico, where I live?

But’ I digress. Let us return to my Alumni Bulletin and let
me quote for you the interesting tidings about all my old friends
and classmates:

Well, fellow alums, it certainly has been a wing-dinger of a
year for all us old grads! Remember Mildred Cheddar and
Harry Camembert, those crazy kids who always held hands in
Econ II? Well, they’re married now and living in Clovis, New
Mexico, where Harry rents spearfishing equipment and Mildred
has just given birth to a lovely 28-pound daughter, her second
in four months. Nice going, Mildred and Harry!

Remember Jethro Brie, the man we voted most likely to suc-
ceed? Well, old Jethro is still gathering laurels! Last week he
was voted “Motorman of the Year” by his fellow workers in
the Duluth streetcar system. “I owe it all to my brakeman,”
said Jethro in a characteristically modest acceptance speech.
Same old Jethro!

Probably the most glamorous time of all us alums was had by
Francis Macomber last year. He went on a big game hunting
safari all the way to Africa! We received many interesting post
cards from Francis until he was, alas, accidently shot and killed
by his. wife and white hunter. Tough luck, Francis!

Wilma ‘‘Deadeye’’ Macomber, widow of the late beloved
Francis Macomber, was married yesterday to Fred ‘“Sureshot”
Quimby, white hunter, in a simple double-ring ceremony in
Nairobi. Good luck, Wilma and Fred!

Well, alums, that just about wraps it up for this year. Keep
‘em flying!

eOGEee,

© 1961 Max Shulman

* * +

Old grads, new grads, undergrads, all agree: The best new
nonfilter cigarette in many a long year is the king-size
Philip Morris Commander. Welcome aboard!
 

TUESDAY
Editon

Che Ring-tum Phi

Washington and Lee Semi-Weekly Newspaper

TUESDAY
Edition

 

Volume LXI

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA, MAY 9, 1961

Number 55

 

 

University Party Sweeps EG Class Elections

Paul, Ireland, Page, Christian,
Galef, Ogilvie Take EC Posts

By T. D. EDWARDS
Associate Editor
John Paul, Tim Ireland, Rosie Page, Steve Galef, Meade
Christian and Buck Ogilvie won Executive Committee posts in
last night’s student body class elections.
The University Party, after suffering defeat in the general
student body elections held in April, made a comeback by

*placing four of the six Executive

Bridewell Is
Dance Board
Executive

By PHIL FARNSWORTH
Associate Editor

Bob Bridewell, a rising jun-

ior from Tyler, Texas, was

elected Friday as vice-president

of Washington and Lee’s

Dance Board for 1961-1962.

Bridewell, an SAE, is news editor
of the Friday edition of the Ring-
tum Phi for next year. He was news
editor of the Tuesday Ring-tum Phi
this year.

As new vice-president, Bridewell
will serve as assistant business man-
ager under Dance Board President
Steve Galef, a ZBT rising senior from
White Plains, N. Y., and in 1962-1963
Bridewell will automatically become
president.

In commenting on next year’s
Dance Board, Steve Galef said: “I
am very happy with the Dance
Board’s selection of Bob Bridewell,
and I am sure we will work well
together.

“I am planning changes to improve
the Dance Sets for next year, and the
Dance Board will release some of
these changes in the immediate fu-
ture. One of the changes will be the
elimination of the second dance at
Openings, which will leave only
Fancy Dress with two dances. Also
I intend to place more emphasis

BOB BRIDEWELL
Dance Board Vice-President

on the concerts in the coming year’s
Dance Sets.”

The Dance Board plans to have
a 1961-1962 budget of $20,000. The
Dance Board is made up of the class
presidents, the dance set presidents,
and the president and vice-president
of the student body.

Bridewell was selected from six
applicants by an interviewing com-
mittee consisting of Uncas McThenia,
Jimmy Vann, Steve Galef, Warren
Goodwyn, Dr. Cook, and Dr. Phillips.

 

   

DATH BOOEF ;

Graduation invitations have been
shipped and will be received by
Carter Fox by the end of the week.

All persons interested in applying
for positions on the Assimilation
Committee, the Student Library
Committee, and the Cold Check
Committee should submit letters of
application to Steve Suttle at the
Delt house no later than tomorrow.

There will be a meeting of all
students invited to join the staff
of the Friday Ring-tum Phi, and
others interested in working on the
Friday edition, at 2 p.m. tomorrow
in the student union.

SWMSFC will hold interviews
for those interested in directing
next year’s musical show tonight
at 7 p.m. The interviews will be
held in the Student Union.

   

Paul Ireland
Law Executive Committeemen

 

Galef
Rising Senior EC

Page

   

Christian Ogilvie
Rising Junior, Sophomore EC

 

Bob Doenges, a Sigma Chi junior,
was elected president of the Inter-
fraternity Council for the coming
year, at an IFC meeting last night.
Si Painter, a PiKA junior, was elect-
ed vice-president; Bil Young, a DU
junior, secretary; and Tony Schle-
singer, a ZBT sophomore, treasurer.

Painter will be IFC rush chairman
next year and Dave Swann, a Phi
Delt sophomore, will edit the rush
booklet.

Doenges has been a representative
to the council for three years. He
is a member of SWMSFC, and has
been a house officer. He has been on
the basketball and tennis teams.

Doenges has called for an assess-
ment of the present Help Week sit-
uation and wants to take some defi-
nite action on new proposals in that
area, it was pointed out in a nom-
inating speech. He has also pro-
posed to use studies of fraternity
organizations at other schools in
selecting improvements in the status
and role of fraternities at Washing-
ton and Lee.

He said that he was highly honored
to be elected president of the coun-
cil and that he would do every thing
in his power to make the IFC a

 

strong and effective body in student
affairs.

In addition to these programs he
feels that it would be a definite
aid to the fraternities if there were
outside speakers brought to the cam-
pus and the houses to speak on
different aspects of the fraternity
system as a whole.

Other business which was discuss-
ed in last night’s meeting was the
choosing of an outstanding rising
senior for the IFC Senior scholar-
ship and the selection of a fresh-
man for the IFC Outstanding Fresh-

Bob Doenges Elected 1961-62 IFC President;
Painter, Young, Schlesinger To Fill Other Posts

man Award. The announcements will
be made next Tuesday.

Doenges is from Bartelsville, Okla.,
and Painter is from Staunton, Va.
The new secretary comes from Leb-
anon, N. J., while Scheslinger is
from Dallas, Texas. Swann, the edi-
tor of the rush booklet, is from Ashe-
Ville, N. C.

The new president, after being
elected, expressed the IFC’s appre-
ciation to outgoing president Dave
Lefkowitz for the “fine job he has
done this year, and I only hope I
can fill his shoes.”

 

 

Election Results
EXECUTIVE COMMITTEE
Rising Senior Law Class
John Paul Acclamation
Rising Intermediate Law Class
Tim Ireland
weet WE ie an
Rising Senior Class
Steve Galef
Rosie Page ....
Tom Luthy
Steve Rutledge

Rising Junior Class

  

WRORGO COPIA ngs ssssccssssesesse 126
OM TRQWEMGE cvs vssssccdsticssesseszsercsne 98
Rising Sophomore Class
Te Se a is 154
7 es 114

 

Commerce Fraternity
Members To Be Elected

New members will be elected to
the Commerce Fraternity at a meet-
ing to be held tomorrow in New-
comb 8 at 3 p.m.

Bill McWilliams, Phi Delt senior,
president of the group, said today
that officers for next year will also
be selected at this meeting.

In addition to regular business, he
said, a date for the annual picnic will
be set. He urged all members to be
present at this meeting.

 

 

 

|

ROTC Officers

 

Using three of four debaters that
won the state championship in No-
vember of last year, W&L’s debate

| team had its best tournament of the
‘school year over the weekend at
the

Atlantic Coast Conference

 

Inspect VMI

Members of the W&L ROTC Cadet
Corps and Maj. E. J. Roxbury, Jr.,
W&L PMS, were guests of First
Captain Lee Padgett and Lt. Col.
Smith, Commandant, at VMI last
Friday afternoon, for what was orig-
inally planned as a parade review
of the Corps but turned out to be
an in-barracks inspection.

Making the trip with Maj. Rox-
bury were Cadet Col. Nathan P. B.
Simpson, Cadet Lt. Cols. Pete Straub
and John Towler, along with six
company commanders, Cadet Cap-
tains Charlie Day, Clayton Bryan,
Bob Street, Walter Shugart, Charles
Bowie, and Don Pardington.

The trip was in the way of a re-
turn courtesy in that Colonel Smith
and First Captain Padgett were in-
vited to W&L earlier in the year, at
which time only Col. Smith was
able to make the trip to W&L.

Law Frat Elects Officers

Burks Senate of the Delta Theta
Phi Legal Fraternity met last week
and selected their officers for the
1961-62 school year.

Thomas L. Feazell, senior law stu-
dent from Mt. Hope, West Virginia,
was elected president of the organi-
zation and also appointed as the
group’s representative to the Law
School Board of Governors. Robert
B. Armstrong, senior law student
from Valley Stream, N. Y., was
awarded the group’s second highest
office by his selection as Tribune.

Other officers were: Allan Getson,
senior law student from Philadelphia,
Penn., as vice-president, Andrew J.
Russell, intermediate law student
from Louisville, Ky., as secretary,
and Jay F. Wilks, intermediate law
student from Norfolk, Va., as treas-

 

 

urer.

Debate Team ‘Teen 3rd Place
In Atlantic Coast Championship

 

 

Championship at Columbia, South
Carolina. |

Bill Buice and Al Eckes debating
affirmatively captured second place
with a 4-1 record, while Richard
McEnally and Jay Clark on the neg-
ative side did the same with a 3-2
record.

W&L defeated both Virginia and
Duke teams and split with South
Carolina and Wake Forest. The lat-
ter two were the only schools to
finish ahead of W&L in the tourna-
ment. The Conference unanimously
invited W&L to again attend the
tournament to be held at Duke
during the 1961-62 school year.
Never are more than one or two
teams invited to this round-robin
competition.

The South Carolina trip closed the
season for the debate team—a season
in which W&L won the state cham-
pionship, won seven _ individual
awards, won two team awards, and
had three undefeated teams.

In all, the University took part
in eight debate tournaments, one dis-
cussion conference and three prac-
tice debates with other schools.

Thirty-one Washington and Lee
men took part in these activities.

 

Post Office On DST;
No Hunting for Addressees

The Lexington post office will
keep its same hours under Daylight
Saving Time. All pick-ups and de-
liveries of mail, however, will be an
hour later than the usual time.

The morning mail will not be
ready until 9:30 a.m. DST, instead
of the usual 8:30.

Postmaster R. M. Cummings has
notified townspeople and_ students
that the post office staff cannot con-
tinue to deliver improperly addressed
mail. Obsolete addresses, and ad-
resses which do not specify a place
delivery, will be returned to the
sender.

Mr. Cummings explained _ that,
although the local staff has been
lenient in the past, a new govern-
mental policy, will prohibit the
“chasing-down” of addressees. He

   

 

asked people to notify their corres-
pondents of their correct addresses.

Nea, Allgood,

Guild Hold

Top Tuesday Edition Jobs

Andy Nea, rising Phi Gam junior
from Williamsburg, will head the
Tuesday staff of the Ring-tum Phi
for next year, Roy Goodwin, editor-
elect, said today.

Serving as managing editor, Nea
will head the overall direction of
the Tuesday Edition, Goodwin said.
A member of the Ring-tum Phi staff
for two years, Nea served as news
editor of the Friday edition this year.
He is a member of the IFC, Cotil-
lion Club and the U.C.A.

John Allgood, a rising sophomore
from Charlotte, N. C., will serve as
as assistant man-
aging editor,

 

good was assistant |
| sports editor and!
§ sports editor of the |
Friday edition this |
year. He has’
worked for the
University Infor-
mation Services
this year and was
a track team man-
ager.

Steve Guild, a Kappa Sig rising
junior from Oklahoma City, Okla.,
will serve as _ executive news
editor. Guild was sports editor of
the Tuesday edition this year, a
fraternity officer, and a producer of
Radio W&L.

“The position of executive news
editor,” Goodwin said, “is a new po-
sition to the Ring-tum Phi.” It will
be used as a general production and
trouble shooter position, he added.

Serving as news editor will be
Julian Markham, a Beta rising soph-
omore from Sebring, Fla. Markham
was a member of the Tuesday Ring-
tum Phi this year. He will head
the staff of reporters for next
year’s Tuesday edition, Goodwin
said, and will be in charge of the
general “news” content of the news-
paper.

Peter Alford, a rising Phi Psi soph-
omore, will be sports editor next
year. A member of the IFC, Cotil-
lion Club, and the U.C.A., Alford
ran for president of the rising soph-
omore class on the Independent tick-
et. Alford is from Syracuse, N. Y.

Two rising sophomores will be
assistant sports editors, Goodwin
said. Ken Greer, a KA from Marion,
Va., and Harry Meem, from Dicker-
son, Md., will hold these positions.
Greer was a member of this year’s
wrestling team and the Ring-tum
Phi. Meem served on the sports staff
of the Tuesday edition this year.

Six men will serve as associate
editors, he said. They are Tom
Jordon, C. C. Flippen, Tom Lybass,
Tom Edwards, Andy Hyde and Phil
Farnsworth.

Tom Jordan is a rising Kappa Sig
junior from Pittsburgh. He was a
member of the baseball team, Glee

Allgood

Goodwin said. All- |,

 

 

Club and a member of the Ring-

tum Phi. He was copy editor this
year for the Friday staff.

C. C. Flippen, a rising sophomore
from Richmond, was a reporter for
the Friday staff this year.

Tom Lybass, a rising sophomore
from Jacksonville, Fla., was also a
reporter this year.

Tom Edwards, a rising Phi Delt
junior from Montgomery, Ala., will
serve as associate editor.

Andy Hyde and Phil Farnsworth
are both rising KA _ sophomores.
Hyde is from Greenwich, Conn.,
and is a fraternity officer and a
member of the track team. Farns-

ANDY NEA
Managing Editor

worth is from Metairie, La., and was
a member of the U.C.A. and the
Ring-tum Phi reporting staff.
Goodwin added that the position
of associate editor is a “fluid” one
and that those men who prove them-
selves capable will be moved up.
This position, he added, is designed
to give each of the members a
chance to gain print shop experience.

Serving as copy editor will be
Dick Heard, a rising Kappa Sig
sophomore from Winnfield, La.
Heard served as assistant copy editor
this year for the Friday edition.

Bill Bowen, a rising SAE junior
from Brooklyn, N. Y., will supervise
photography for both editions of the
Ring-tum Phi.

Serving as columnist for the
Tuesday edition, Goodwin said, will
be Thorns Craven, a rising Sigma
Nu senior from Concord, N. C.; Dave
Knight, a rising Phi Delt senior from
Worchester, Mass.; Robert C. Ket-
cham, a rising law senior from Inde-

 

pendence, Mo., and George Honts, a}
rising Delt senior from Nimrod Hall, |

Va.

Goodwin emphasized the fact that) Lanny Butler, an SAE, is

(Continued on page 4)

|

|

Committeemen and all four party-
affiliated class presidents in office.
(The president of the rising inter-
mediate law class was a non-party
affiliate).

The class presidential posts were
won by Henry Carter, Beta; Dalton
Baugess; Charlie Commander, Phi
Delt; Lanny Butler, SAE; and Ed
Croft, KA, of the respective rising
senior law, intermediate law, senior,
junior and sophomore classes.

In other elections in the rising
Senior Law Class, Ossie Kay was
acclaimed vice-president, along with
John Kirk as secretary, and Leigh
Ansell as historian. All officers in
this class were by acclamation.

The rising Intermediate Class of
the Law School elected Dalton Bau-
gess as president. Bill Clark will
assume the vice-president’s position
and Frank Duckworth is the new
secretary. Joe Hess was elected his-
torian.

The remaining new Senior Class
officers are Pearce Hardwick, Beta,
arts vice-president; Mike Spalding,
Phi Delt, science vice-president; Bo
DuBose, PiKA, commerce vice-presi-
dent; Dave Beale, DU, secretary, and
Roy Goodwin, historian.

In the rising Junior Class, Bob
Payne, Delt, was elected vice-pres-
ident; Dave Bevans, PiKA, secre-
tary, and Bill Boardman, Beta, his-
torian.

Completing the rising Sophomore
Class elections are Frank Wright,
Sigma Nu, vice-president; Syd But-
ler, SAE, secretary, and Barry
Greene, ZBT, historian.

John Paul is the rising senior Law
School representative to the Execu-
tive Committee. Paul is a member
of Phi Beta Kappa, and has served
on the EC for two years. He is the
assistant editor of next year’s Law
Review, a student teacher, and a
Ring-tum Phi columnist.

The rising Intermediate Law rep-
resentative is Tim Ireland. Ireland is
a member of PiKA and graduated
Magna Cum Laude last year from
the undergraduate school. He did
honors work in English and is a
member of Who’s Who and ODK. He
has served as a dorm councilor for
two years, and will be the head dor-
mitory councilor next year. Ireland
served on the EC for one year.

New elected EC member Steve
Galef, a ZBT rising senior, was as-
sistant managing editor of this year’s
Ring-tum Phi, and is now Dance
Board president, assistant editor of
the Calyx, and president of the
Student Service Society. A Dean’s
List student, he is editorial director
of the Friday Ring-tum Phi, and a
member of the Assimilation Com-
mittee.

Rosie Page, a rising SAE senior is
the present junior class EC repre-
sentative. He is a member of Omi-
cron Delta Kappa, and was president
of his sophomore class. At present
he is a dorm counselor, and is edi-
tor of the Tuesday Ring-tum Phi. A
member of the varsity football, base-
ball and wrestling teams, he is a
member of SWMSFC, the Dance
Board, and Phi Eta Sigma, fresh-
man honorary society. In 1959 he
received the Outstanding Freshman
Award given by the IFC.

Senior class president-elect Charles
Commander, a Phi Delt, is the pres-
ident of this year’s Junior Class.
He is a member of the Dance Board,
and is a member of the Commerce
Fraternity. In 1960 he was his fra-
ternity’s rush chairman. A member
of Sigma he has been on the Ring-
tum Phi Staff.

Meade Christian, a Phi Gam, was
elected to become the rising junior
class EC representative. A member
of Phi Eta Sigma and the Assimi-
lation Committee, he is on the Honor

Roll and recently received the Phi
Beta Kappa Sophomore Award. A
tennis team member, he will be a
dorm counselor next year.

Junior Class President - elect

a member
(Continued on page 4)
Page 2

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

|

Che Ring-tum Phi
Tuesday Edition

Member of Virginia Intercollegiate Press Association

The Tuesday Ring-tum Phi—
A Non-Biased Newspaper

Although one of the main functions of any newspaper is
to present an editorial opinion, it should be remembered that
it is also one of the purposes of any publication to carefully
weigh and analyze all the facets of an issue before stating the
opinion.

We, of the staff of the Tuesday Edition of the Ring-tum
Phi, wish to express that we will do this, and that our opinions
will not be based on political bias or personal bias.

 

We pledge to you, our readers, that every issue that comes
before the Tuesday Edition’s Editorial Board will (1) be
carefully considered from all points of view and that (2) our
opinions will be expressed in our editorials only and not in the
columns of news found throughout the newspaper.

We, the editors-elect of the Ring-tum Phi, have been
charged that we are heads of newspapers that have been used
for political purposes, and that the Ring-tum Phi will continue
to be used for political purposes. We have been charged with
the above accusation before either of us has published his first
edition.

CHARGES LABELED “HOT AIR”

Speaking for the Tuesday Edition, we conclude that this
charge is not justified and is so much “hot air.”

We further pledge that our opinions will be justly formu-
lated and that we will express our own opinion—whether it be
to the favor of the University Party or to the favor of the Inde-
pendent Party. This is our inherent right and our obligation.

The charges that the Publications Board has been playing
politics for many years and that the Board played politics again
this year, in our opinion, are entirely unjustified and are un-
founded.

We say this because three of the four Independents who
appeared for positions before the Board were appointed to
offices, and because two members of the Washington and Lee
University faculty sit on the Publications Board, each with a
vote. We sincerely think that it is a blow to this University to
charge its faculty, since they are represented on the Board, with
“playing politics.”

Elsewhere on this page their appears a letter from George
Honts, managing editor of this year’s Friday Ring-tum Phi.
He was one of the candidates for editorships of the newspaper.
In his letter Honts says:

“Although admittedly disappointed at not winning
an editorship I do not feel party politics was the decid-
ing factor in the election.”

“There were six candidates interviewed—two were
there for experience and three of us were about equally
qualified—had someone other than two of the three
qualified candidates been chosen there would have been
room for criticism.”

“I offer three facts to support my argument that the
elections were not politically rigged. (1)of four Inde-
pendent Party members interviewed, three were chosen
because of their qualifications; (2) certain members of
the University Party on the Board supported Indepen-
dent candidates they had political reasons to oppose;
(3) the faculty members of the Board, who are not
prejudiced, said, I am told, that it was a non-biased and
fair election.”

Speaking for the new staff of the Tuesday Ring-tum Phi,
I, as editor-elect, wish to urge all persons, regardless of party,
to write letters to the editor expressing your opinions. If you,
as our readers, feel we are wrong concerning an issue, then tell
us, and please don’t hesitate to be frank. We are in this busi-
ness to give the news first, and second to present opinions that
we feel are justified and well founded. You, our readers, should
express your opinions also. Our very foundation of the free-
dom of the press concept hinges on this phrase—the free ex-
change of ideas.

SHOULD PARTIES FORM POLITICAL PAPERS?

The solution proposed by our criticizers is that the In-
dependent Party form a political paper of its own. The Inde-
pendent Party, as well as the University Party, has every right
to form their own publication, and we would respect any such
publication at its face value, regardless of what political flag it
happened to be waving.

If the leaders and members of the Independent Party feel
it is necessary to form a paper to oppose the so-called “Uni-
versity Party-controlled Ring-tum Phi,” then let them meet
and so decide. It is our opinion that the majority of the party
will not be in favor of such a move.

We do not feel that it will be necessary to form such a
paper, in view of our pledges to our readers, and we do not feel
that such a paper will serve any concrete or constructive pur-
pose. We do emphasize, however, that if the leaders and mem-
bers of the Independent Party feel it necessary to make this
move, they have every right to do so, and the Tuesday Staff
will not stand in its way.

If each of you will do this—express your opinions and be

 

Work Begins On Science Building

By STEVE GUILD

For the next year and a half the
students at Washington and Lee will
hear bulldozers roaring, hammers
banging, and riveting of steel—part
of the projects started last week,
the new science buildings and the
new freshman dormitory.

Scheduled for completion in the
fall of 1962, the science buildings
will house enlarged facilities for
physics, chemistry, biology and geol-
ogy departments and the new dorm
will take care of freshman over-
flow which has spread to Preston
House and private homes in the past
few years.

The first stage of both buildings,
the excavation of the building site,
is ahead of schedule and should be
completed by the time school is
over. All that really remains to be
done in this phase is the drilling out
of bedrock. This should come around
examination time (much to the dis-
tress of the law students) but pro-
visions have been made for moving
the exams to different locations if
the noise should become unbearable.

Related to the building program
and a certainty to come is the high
fence which has been constructed
in the past few days. While it may

 

seem that a lower fence would serve
the safety purpose just as well, the
contractors promise that the tradi-
tional peep holes for the sidewalk
superintendents will be drilled in
the wall.

A fairly obvious problem which
has resulted from the new con-
struction is the student and faculty
parking.

The through roads which were
formerly in service have been block-
ed off and after the science buildings
have been completed sidewalks will
be laid in the area. As a result there
will be no more through traffic.
There will be, however, an increase
in the number of parking spaces
available to the students and facul-
ty, for work has started on a park-
ing area in back of Doremus Gym
which will hold an additional 95
cars when it is finished, and have
exits on Washington Street.

The new dormitory which will
connect with Baker Dormitory will
be entirely for the freshmen and
will alleviate the crowded conditions
wheih now exist in the present
Freshman Dormitory. It is also hoped
that the medical facilities and space
can be improved with the new dorm.

Besides the obvious improvements

 

which will come with the new
science buildings, there will also be
the opportunity to offer a number
of new courses because of improved
facilities, new equipment and rooms.
One of the courses in the chemistry
department will be instrumental
analysis, which will be used in con-
nection with the quantitative analy-
sis course.

The biology department hopes to
offer histology (the study of the
tissues of the body), ecology, and
certain work in radioactive biological
studies. There will also be facilities
for individual student research work.

All of this will be the final result
of the long years of planning re-
quired before the “big hole back
of Tucker” could start to be dug.

 

New Fraternity Officers Picked

Seven Washington and Lee frater-
nities have elected officers for the
1961 fall semester.

Sigma Alpha Epsilon: Jim Swinn,
president; Bob Bridewell, vice-pres-
ident; Ed Holmes, secretary; Jud
Babcock, treasurer; Bill Taylor,
house manager; and John Heinzer-
ling, rush chairman.

Sigma Nu: Rupe Johnson, presi-
dent; Henry Knight, vice-president;
Frank Wright, secretary; Henry Hol-
land, treasurer; and Dave Peters,
rush chairman.

Zeta Beta Tau: Sam Hellman,
president; Steve Galef, vice-presi-
dent and rush chairman; Tony
Schlesinger, treasurer; and Howie
Bing, house manager.

 

Kappa Sigma: Rick Frisbie, presi-
dent; Al Curran, vice-president; Bill
Candler, grand master of ceremonies;
Steve Guild, scribe; and Kirk Henry,
rush chairman.

Phi Kappa Psi: Jim Carty, presi-
dent; Paul Munyan, vice-president;
Charlie Hart, secretary; Reese Smith,
house manager; Bart Mitchell, rush
chairman; and Mike Harris, corres-
ponding secretary.

Pi Kappa Phi: Charlie Niemeyer,
president; Perky MacKenney, treas-
urer; and Ed Garretson, secretary.

Phi Epsilon Pi: Spud Slater, presi-
dent; Dick Herman, vice-president;
John Samel, secretary; Ed Brown,
treasurer; and Steve Chernay, rush
chairman.

 

Characterizations Brilliant In Troub Plays

By TOM LYBASS
Associate Editor

tend the Troubadour productions of
Shaw’s “The Man of Destiny,” and

An evening with interesting peo- | Chekov’s “A Marriage Proposal” this
ple acting in rather novel situa- week.

tions is in store for those who at-

Bernard Shaw who wrote “The

 

Fence Hampers Freedom
Of Watchin g Construction

By DAVE KNIGHT
Tuesday Columnist

Here at W&L, as evidenced by
the recent elections, we are all in-
terested in change
and reform. At the
same time, we are
interested in see-
ing how __ this
. change and reform
is being carried
- out. However, one
item seems. to
have slipped the
minds of both po-
litical parties, as
well as the admin-
istration. This is
the fact that a fence of secrecy, both
material and mental, is going up
around the new science building be-
ing built on the campus.

The fence I refer to is the one
which prevents sidewalk superin-
tendents from engaging in one of
America’s favorite pastimes—the
right to offer professional advice
concerning the construction of a
building while still maintaining
amateur standing.

Lost is the feeling of satisfaction
that one derives from knowing that
without this help this new building
could not have been completed. In-
stead, when our new science build-
ing is open to inspection the student
is going to view it with the
suspicion that it is another wicked
device of the feculty to enlarge the
educational facilities of the univer-
sity.

At this opening, the Administra-
tion will be faced with a barrage of
embarrassing questions concerning
student suggestions for (1) a large
recreational area (i.., room for
slot machines, roulette wheels and
other harmless means of entertain-
ment) and (2) the need for mixed-
drink machines.

The reason for all this future
embarrassment and discontent? A
subpugation of our rights as inves-
tors to watch the growth of our in-
vestment. Not only has the Adminis-

Che Bing-tum Phi

Tuesday Edition

The Ring-tum Phi is published Tues-
day and Friday during the college year.
It is printed wi, the Journalism Labor-
atory Press, Washington and Lee Uni-
versity. The mailing address is Box
899, Lexington, Va.

Entered ag second class matter Sep-
tember 20, 1946 at the Post Office, Lex-
ington, Va., under the act of March

National Advertising Representative:
The National Advertisers Service, Inc.,
420 Madison Ave., New York, N.Y.

Knigh

 

0 Ae Rosewell Page, III
Editor-elect........ Robert Roy Goodwin, II
Business Manager.............. Huntley Biggs

Editerial Board
Managing Editor......................... Andy Nea
Asst. Managing Editor........ John Allesod
Executive News Editor........ Steve Guild
News Editor......... Julian Markham
Sports Editor ..Peter Alford

  

  

Asst. Sports Editors................ Ken Greer,
Harry Meem
Associate Editors.................... Tom Jordan,
C. C. Flippen, Tom Lybass,
Tom Edwards, Andy Hyde,
Phil Farnsworth
OGG7 NOU? oiccccconncnu Dek Beard
Photographer ..Bill Bowen

 

 

 

heard—then “party”? newspapers will be of no use whatsoever |

This is your right and your duty. —R. R. G., IT!

Colminists........:: Thorns Craven, Dave
Knight, Robert C. Ketcham,
George Honts

 

tration adopted this ruling by the
use of high quality pliywood which
has no knotholes through which we
might view the progress and hurl
helpful hints.

This fence also gives the mem-
bers of the Law School an unfair
advantage in campus gossip because
of their ringside position in watch-
ing the construction from the second
story.

Gone are the days when we had
an excuse for being late to class.
Gone is our freedom of speech for
the subject of discussion is veiled in
secrecy by a wall of ignorance.
Students, unite! Undermine or storm
this barrier which surpresses our

rights!

 

Letter to the Editor

Publications
Elections Were
Fair—Honts

Roy Goodwin, editor-elect
Ring-tum Phi
Dear Roy:

While Tony Gray’s Protest article
on the recent Publications Board
election was well intended, I feel
I must take it to task. Although ad-
mittedly disappointed at not winning
an editorship, I do not feel party
politics was the deciding factor in
the election.

There were six candidates inter-
viewed—two were there for exper-

 

ience and three of us were about |
equally qualified—had some other | ~

than two of the three qualified can-
didates been chosen there would
have been room for criticism.

I offer three facts to support my
argument that the elections were
not politically rigged. 1) of four In-
dependent Party members _inter-
viewed, three were chosen because
of their qualifications; 2) certain
members of the University Party
on the Board supported Independent
candidates they had political reasons
to oppose; 3)the faculty members of
the Board, who are not prejudiced,
said, I am told, that it was a non-
biased and fair election.

Being editor of any reliable news-
paper is no bed of roses you will
find, and it is not fair to you to be
under fire before you have had a
chance to prove yourselves. There is
no reason why the student body
should not have confidence in you
and Bill Roberts—if you do not live
up to your responsibility as a jour-
nalist, then we should criticize you.
There is no reason why the student
body should not support your efforts.

Best of luck,
GEORGE HONTS
Managing Editor
Friday Ring-tum Phi

 

NOTICE

The Tuesday staff will meet in the
Student Union on Friday at 1:30 p.m.

  

 

Man of Destiny” sixty-five years ago,
is noted as the creator of people who
snap out their words rapidly.

Actually, Shaw’s characters are
only puppets to voice his ideas.
Using “myself” as the measure of
his plays Shaw drew topsy-turvy
pictures of historic characters. Shaw,
said, “I have no clue to any per-
sonage save that part of him which
is myself. I respect historical char-
acters as saying the things they
would have said if they had known
what they were doing.”

The “myself” in Shaw’s characters
makes the acting of any G. B. S. role
difficult. Explaining often in great
detail the characters and ideas of his
plays, he leaves the actor little
room for individual interpretation.
Either the actor plays the part
Shaw’s way or he dosen’t.

Most of the time the Troubadours
are acting “The Man of Destiny”
Shaw’s way. The light quality of
Shavian wit is lacking only once
in one of the two dialogue sequences.
Here the three supposedly quick
witted characters hesitate and strive
too hard for humor. On the whole,
however, control of the Shavian
rythmn is good. Yet timing and pace
could be faster.

All of the characterizations are
brilliant. Tim Morton is an attrac-
tive and very believable Napoleon.
His masterful use of grunts and long
strides properly express the feelings
of a pettish vain little man with the
temper of a young child.

Miss Josephine Unger is a mys-
terious and charming Strange Lady.
Her sparkling eyes and soft voice

 

leave the audience no doubt that
she has bewitched Napoleon and the
Lieutenant.

John Dunnell’s proud peacocking
and twitching of mustache provides
the right comic effect. As the fat
solid Italian inkeeper, Andy Adelson
acts well. Andy always maintains
the required attitude of respectful
reverence in Napoleon’s presence.

“A Marriage Proposal” is the les-
ser work of a great mind. In the
Troubadour production, this ex-
tremely silly farce prepares the way
for the more important Shaw play.
Throughout the short length of the
play a fair amount of spirit and life
exists.

The pleasure Dr. Keith Shilling-
ton takes in portraying buffons is
evident in his performance of the
elderly, pompous Stephan Stepano-
vitch Chubukov. His well timed
movements and pleasantly modu-
lated voice make it hard to be-
lieve that he is not an actor with
professional training.

The marriage seeking daughter is
quite effectively portrayed by Miss
Julia Coates. Controlling her hys-
terics so that they do not become
unpleasant screams, Miss Coates
shows understanding of the prin-
ciple of not overacting. Her suitor,
Mac McClung, appears a never-
ous hypochondriac. His  gyra-
tions adequately give the impression
of a distraught person.

 

NOTICE

The first annual McCormick Li-
brary Art Festival will begin Mon-
day.

Campus Is Not Apathetic,
It’s Just Contented With Ways

By GEORGE HONTS

For weeks now we have been
fighting Apathy. It became such a
. realistic foe I
' almost visualize
its human charac-
teristics. Indeed,
“@ Apathy came to
have a few friends
on this campus as
did Adolph Eich-
man in other
quarters. And
now, since we
have defeated Ap-
athy, or at least
beaten it into the
ground, I thought it would be well
for us to know what we have been
battling.

The only available source is itself
apathetic—Webster’s dictionary. If
defines apathy as: 1) Want of feel-
ing; lack of passion, emotion, or ex-
citement, and 2) Indifference to what
appeals to feelings or interest. May-
be this campus has been apathetic,
but this is not exactly the definition
I expected. I looked for something
like “contentment” to be used in de-
fining the word.

Certainly I think contentment is a
better word. For years now the
dominant party on campus has been
content to win and the minority
party to lose. There hasn’t been a
lack of emotion over the situation;
both sides cursed their fate and
went about their business. Only two
losers that I know of thought of
switching sides—and that’s content-
ment, not apathy.

And if apathy means lack of po-
litical emotion, then to fight it on
the local campus is to swat files
while rattlesnakes coil. Pity poor
Gov. Barron of West Virginia who

 

Honts

 

blew his top when the crowd which
gathered to hear him was disrespect-
ful to the flag during the Pledge of
Allegence. If we are apathetic we
earned the right to be so by copying
our parents. If we are to change our
ways and become whatever the op-
posite of apathetic is, I say we are
too late. What is it the Jesuits said—
Give me the child and I will make
the man.
* ca *

If you want to emit a few apa-
thetic laughs take the evening off
and double flick. There are two
well-done satires showing at Lexing-
ton’s two palaces of amusement,
Walt Disney outdid himself with
“101 Dalamations” and the “Carry-
on Nurse” people get in some good
digs at society in “Please Turn-
Over.” Sunday I even saw Side and
Daves exchanging tickets.

* * *

I understand the Troub players
are working on a pair of comedies
to round out their very successful
season. It is a shame they don’t
have a decent place in which to do
their work, I am sure many fellow
students agree that the new science
building is long overdue, and a new
auditorium should be next on the
agenda. As a matter of fact, we need
an auditorium more than we need
a new dormitory. Not only are the
Troubs hampered, it is embarrassing
to bring Harry Truman, Barry Gold-
water and Ahmad Jamal down here
and put them in the gym.

* * *

There’s one good thing about the
construction though. A friend of
mine says he doesn’t have any
trouble staying awake in his classes
now.

 
 

THE RING-TUM PHI

Page 3

 

VMI FIRST, W&L PLACES SIXTH IN STATE

 

Hickey Wins 100; Essex, Meyers Take Seconds

By JOHN ALLGOOD
Assistant Managing Editor

Jim Hickey proved for once and
for all that he is the king of Vir-
ginia dashmen Saturday as he cap-
tured the 100-yard dash in the state
track meet at Lynchburg.

There was never any doubt over
the outcome of the race as the
“South Boston speedster” grabbed
the lead as soon as the talented
field left the blocks.

 

Finishing behind Hickey were
W&M’s Dale Bickart, Lynchburg’s
Bob Hopkins, VPI’s Bill Hardwick,
and Randolph-Macon’s Al Kritzer.

Hickey’s first, Skip Essex’s sec-
ond in the 880, and Ed Meyers’ tie
for second in the pole vault placed
the Generals in six place in the
second annual meet. W&L had
15 1/4 points,

VMI finished first with 56 points
followed by Virginia 42 1/2; Wil-

 

liam and Mary 42; VPI 38; Norfolk
William and Mary 28 3/4; W&L
15 1/4; Richmond 7; Lynchburg 6;
Randolph-Macon 4 3/4; Hampden-
Sydney; Roanoke; and Bridgewater.

The Generals looked well indeed
as they doubled their 1960 point out-
put in the state meet. In all the
Generals beat one Big Five school—
Richmond—and seven of the Little
Eight schools.

Freshman Essex was the surprise

 

Varsity Tennis Team Splits;
Beat H-S, Lose To UVa., 9-0

The W&L tennis team split their
last two matches, beating Hampden-
Sydney 6-3 Saturday and losing
to UVa. 9-0 yesterday.

 

John Baker returns ball in
Hampden-Sydney match.

The Wahoos overwhelmed the
hapless Generals in both singles and
doubles on the Washington and Lee

 

 

courts Monday. Jerry Wilbourn, at
No. 5 singles, was the only W&L
player able to take a set from our
powerful neighbors to the north.

Captain Billy McWilliams, veteran
No. 1 single player, started well but
dropped a 7-5, 6-0 decision to Dave
Dickinson.

John Baker, playing No. 2, bowed
to Bruce Farrell of Virginia, 6-1, 6-0.
Clark Valentiner was also downed in
straight sets, 6-2, 6-4.

UVa. clinched the match by win-
ning the No. 4 and No. 6 singles
matches, as Jim Mell and John Mills
bowed to their opponents.

Jerry Wilbourn, in the longest
match of the day, lost his first set
to Ronald Young 6-4, came back to
win the second, 7-5, but dropped the
deciding set 6-2.

Dickinson and Farrell teamed up
to win the first doubles match, beat-
ing McWilliams and Baker 6-2, 6-3.

‘|The Wahoos continued their string

as Young and Killebrow dumped
Valentiner and Mell 6-4, 6-4. Vir-
ginia completed the sweep as Scol-
nic and Klavanas whipped Dick Al-
bert and freshman Bud Hollman
6-2, 7-5. in No. 3 doubles play.

* * *

The Generals won their sixth
match of the season last Saturday,
beating the Hampden-Sydney Tigers

 

JV Lacrosse Finishes Season
With 5-4 Win Over Augusta

W&L’s JV lacrosse team closed out
its season yesterday with a 5-4 win
over Augusta Military Academy. Dan
Flournoy won it for the Brigadiers
with a last-minute score.

on defense. W&L goalie Glenn
Thornhill had nine saves for the
contest.

The JV’s thus closed out their

 

6-3 on the W&L courts.

Billy McWilliams, playing his best
match of the season, trimmed
Hampden-Sydney’s Hatcher, 6-2, 6-2
on the slow, rainsoaked courts.

John Baker extended his Hamp-
den-Sydney opponent to three sets,
but lost the match 6-1, 3-6, 6-0.

Clark Valentiner added another
singles victory with a 6-1, 6-2 win
over his H-S opponent, Bud Saun-
ders.

Jim Mell

Jim Mell, at No. 4, had trouble in
the second set, but pulled it out to
win, 6-1, 8-6, over Jim Patton of
H-S.. Jerry Wilbourn also ran into
difficulties in the second set, but
hung on to win, 6-4, 10-8.

Freshman Bud Hollman ,a new-
comer to the top six, won a con-
vineing 6-1, 6-3 victory over the
Tiger’s No. 6 man, Byers.

The five single victories put the
match on ice for the Generals, who
made this their sixth win of the sea-
son.

Hatcher and Kellmeyer

The Tiger twosome of Hatcher and
Kellmeyer proved too strong for
McWilliams and Baker, decision-
ing them 8-6, 6-1. Clark Valentiner
and Jim Mell provided some ex-
citement and good tennis as they
won a hard-fought battle against
Patton and Saunders, 9-7, 4-6, 6-4.
W&L defaulted the last doubles
match.

* * *

Going into their final game against
Randolph-Macon today, the Gen-
erals were six and five on the season.

The beat Lynchburg 8-1, West
Virginia 8-1, George Washington
5-4, Richmond 7-2, Roanoke 5-4 and

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

-
: = season with a 2-4 record. They beat; Hampden-Sydney 6-3. * z
Midfielder Buck Ogilvie paced the| awa twice, and lost to Ft. Belvoir,| Too powerful for the Generals were | * THE NEW y
W&L attack with three goals. He} ama, and twice to the UVa. frosh,| Colgate 6-3, Duke 9-0, Richmond =
i $e the are un-/| bowing 14-2 in the first contest and| 7-2, William and Mary 5-4, Virginia ‘ ‘
assisted, an ice in the third per-| joging 7-0 in th : -0, Randelnh-b a Wh
iod, the first time on an assist from —— mn Se serene o-6, and Renee som ite Top z
Jim Horton. ee et ee ee ee ee 7} =
The Brigadier took a frst auar- | WyANT TO CUT SHORT THE STUDY??? {|} Restaurant
ter lead on goals by Ogilvie and ? *
attackman Rick Uhlig. AMA scor- 4 ;
ed once in the period, then scored || try our | * z
twice in the second quarter to lead ||f College Outlines Barrons Series $
3-2 at the half. , Hymarx Outlines Data Guides A personal invitation
Ogilvie then scored his two goals to | |> i : q oo & rr
put the Baby Generals ahead 4-3||f Made Simple Series Vocabulary Cards } o the :
after three quarters. Both teams , 4 Students z
scored in the last period. : The B ook Sh O ‘
Ogilvie and John Madison were , P Try our delicious foods $
outstanding at midfield positions for | |f ‘ 3
W&L, while Syd Butler, Flournoy, |} W. Washington Street : Route 60 East +
OE ee ee I iii et iii } +
— &
oe fe oe oe oe oe fe ofe of ae oleae ole ake ole ole ole ole ofe of ofe ole oie
(cr y sdbcdiaeids -uasaaaiaasdnanssciaeie ncaa.
Green Valley Motel
One Mile North on
U. S. Highway No. 11
Three students to invest in going business in Lexington.
LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA Can make good money with the minimum of time away
HO 3-2195 from school work. Please contact Roy Entsminger, Jr.,
salesman for
PEEPS EEE EEE PEPE W. E, Tilson & Son
ite’ ' REALTOR
White’s Music LTORS
(Opposite State Theater) - —
7 .
Open a convenient student Checking account
Phonographs—Hi-Fi
-_ = TODAY
Expert Repair Service a
¥ Rockbridge National Bank
5 W. Nelson St. Lexington, Va. g
HO 3-3522 ; Member Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
;
Pb be ebeh bh bbe eh ob bho ee

 

of the meet. The speedster from | misses for the Generals. Eight times

Columbus, Ohio, grabbed a second
in the 880 behind state champ Lar-
ry Williams of VMI.

In finishing second, Essex broke
the two-minute barrier with a
1:59.4. Williams’ winning time was
1:56.6.

Meyers and Jim Parker, W&L’s
one-two punch in the pole vault,
both grabbed medals. Myers ended in
a three-way tie for second with 12-0,
and Parker finished in four-way
tie for fifth with 11-6. Virginia’s
Martin took first with 12-6.

Ed Croft displayed top form in the
low hurdles as he brought home a
fourth place with a 0:26.4. Norfolk’s
Bill James won the event in 0:25.0.

Jumper Robin Kell brought
home the Generals’ final point with
a fifth in the hop-step-jump. Kell
jumped 40-6 1/2 in the trials, but
hurt his ankle and was not able to
reach his usual 42-foot mark.

The meet was a story of near

 

the Generals nearly placed, but each
time they did not quite make it.

Henry Sackett was sixth in the
hop-step-jump by four inches. Kell
was sixth in the high jump by an
inch and sixth in the broad jump
by three-quarters of an inch. Dave
Munroe finished sixth in the shot
put by six inches. Ken Kowalski
placed seventh in the javelin by
three inches.

Coach Norm Lord was very
pleased with the team’s showing in
the state meet.

“This is one of our best showings
against this kind of opposition,” he
said, “and I think we will continue
to improve each year.”

Coach Lord is currently trying to
“beef-up” the Generals’ schedule.
Changes might include a triangular
meet with two North State Confer-
ence teams (probably Elon and East
Carolina) and dual meets with Wil-
liam and Mary and Norfolk William
and Mary.

 

Stickmen Bow To Washington;
End Season At UVa. Saturday

W&L’s lacrosse team lost its third

play very well. I was disappointed

straight contest Saturday, bowing’ in the team effort.” He also predicted
to Washington College of Chester- | that Washington, which plays at

town, Md., by a 14-3 score.
The Generals’ stickmen now have
a 3-7 record.

General midfielder Charlie Gum-
mey scored the first goal of the
game with 28 seconds gone in the
opening period. He ducked his de-
fenseman on a fast break and fired
a long shot past the Washington
goalie.

The Generals weren’t in the game
after the first quarter. They man-
aged to score again in the first, and
once in the second, but the Sho-men
poured in nine goals in the first
half, and added five more in the
second half, holding the Generals
scoreless.

Attackman Skip Rudolph led the
WC scorers with 3 goals, while
Gummey had two for the Generals.

Herb Tinley, W&L goalie, had 17
saves for the contest.

Washington College brought its
season’s record to 6-1. Their one
defeat came at the hands of Navy,
the defending national champions.

Asked about the game, General
coach Bob McHenry said, “We didn’t

FOOSSO50000000000000008

 

te

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

UVa., Wednesday, should lose by
eight guals.

The Generals close out their season
next Saturday at UVa.
W&L
Washington

Scoring: W&L — Gummey 2,
Tracht 1; Washington—Heyward 2,
Buchanan 2, Wadovsky, Rudolph 3,
Hoenes, Fosler, Roemer 2, Marin-
din, Skinner.

Assists: W&L none; Washing-
ton—Buchanan 2, Rudolph 4, Skin-
ner 3, Hoenes.

 

Track Summary

100-yard dash: 1—Hickey (W&L);
2—Bickert (W&M); 3—Hopkins
(Lynchburg). Winning Time—10.2.

880-yard run: 1—Williams (VMI);

2—Essex (W&L). Winning time—
1:56.6.
Hop, step and jump: 1—Partch

(W&M); 2—Melton (VPI); 3—Taylor
(VMI); 4—Pennington (VMI); 5—
Kell (W&L). Distance—42 feet, 11
1/2 inces.

220-yard low hurdles: 1—Hard-
wick (VPI); 2—James (Norf. W&M);
3—Saunders (W&M); 4. Croft
(W&L). Winning time—25.0 sec.

Pole vault: 1—Martin (Virginia),
2—three-way tie, Phillips (Norf.
W&M), Meyers (W&L), Thoma
(W&M); Parker (W&L) was in five-
way tie for 5th. Winning height—
12 feet, six inces.

Notices

All students who have not paid
or requested that statements be
sent home for their $25 spring
registration fee are requested to do
so immediately.

Office, 4 Washington Hall, open
daily between 8:30 a.m. and 4 p.m.
(DST).

Phi Sigma Alpha will meet to-
night at 7:30 p.m. in Newcomb 7.
Elections will be held and Dr.
Leyburn will speak. Attendance
of all mmbers is requested.

 

Mee ele rhe hone ee rte ole rhe rhe ole oe oe oe see fete seo forge

jee

 

The Southern Inn

Cordially invites you to make this your headquarters for good food
Here you get the best food for the most reasonable prices

Our S pecialties:

Steaks, Chicken, Country Ham, and the best sandwiches
in town

Meet your friends here

f IDEAL :
* BARBER SHOP
§ QUICK SERVICE :

[ deste steoeobetetetetetetetetetedededededeseobotede

 

 

 

  
 

 

 

(7

 

 

Store Your Winter Clothes
With Us

Fully Insured
PAY NEXT FALL

ROCKBRIDGE LAUNDRY

and

DRY CLEANERS

y

 

 

 

The traditional look in

ARROW
SPORT SHIRTS

The fabric, the fashion, the feeling . . . all lend
the look of classic authenticity to these favored

tJ

 
 
  
 
 
 
 
  
 
  

Arrow sport shirts. Distinctively printed
on broadcloth in handsome, muted

colorings... styled with button-down

collar and back pleat.

Tailored in long sleeves $5.00

and short sleeves $4,00

=ARROW=

From the “Cum Laude Collection ”

  
Page 4

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

 

Bulldozers move the earth out for the new science

buildings.

—Photo by Young

 

UP Sweeps Class Elections;

Independents Get Two
(Continued from page 1)

of SWMSFC, and the football team.
A Dean’s List student, he will be a
dorm councilor next year, and will
be managing editor for the Friday
Ring-tum Phi. He was a member of
the newspaper staff this year.

Buck Ogilvie, rising Beta sopho-
more, and EC member-elect, is a
member of Phi Eta Sigma, the foot-
ball team and the lacrosse team. He
is on the Calyx staff and was pres-
ident of his pledge class. Last week
he received the MS 1 Superior Cadet
Award in ROTC.

A rising KA sophomore, Ed Croft,
was elected president of his class
for next year. Croft was this year’s
freshman EC member, and is a mem-|
ber of the track and football teams.)
A member of the Ring-tum Phi,
staff he was his pledge class presi-
dent.

 

 

STATE

LEXINGTON, VA.
| _WOBART 3-3424 |

 

 

NOW
SHOWING

 

vtnaved by HOLME RETA Reenrtetine Co tee Quai! Stay agneTIONS

New Posts Named
For R-t P Staff

(Continued from page 1)

the editorial board will be com-
posed of the above named persons.
This board, he said, will be instru-
mental in setting editorial policy for
next year’s Tuesday edition. (See
page 2 for the Tuesday edition’s
statement of editorial policy.)

Any persons interested in working
on the Tuesday staff should contact
a member of the news staff by the
end of the week, he said.

This past weekend the Washington
and Lee campus was dotted with
visiting alumni attending the Anni-
versary Class Reunion Day. The
300 alumni from the classes of 1911,
1921, 1936, and 1951 with their wives

& | celebrated their 50th, 40th, 25th, and

10th reunions, respectively.

The two-day occasion began Friday
afternoon with registration and cam-
pus tours which were soon followed
by a review of the VMI Cadet Corps
Band and the W&L ROTC Cadets.
Later in the afternoon the alumni
were guests at a reception held by
President Cole at his home. Friday

 

Scholarships

Twenty-four Marshall Scholarships
are being offered American college
graduates next year for study in
England.

The Marshall Scholaiships, which
were established in 1953 as a me-
morial to the Marshall Plan, give
American college graduates the op-
portunity for two or three years
study in the English college of their
choice. The scholarship awards $1,540
a year plus tuition and travel ex-
penses. Other grants are also avail-
able.

Applications for the scholarships
must be made by October 31. Inter-
ested students should contact Dr.
Charles W. Turner of the Washing-
ton and Lee history department.

 

: MYERS
$ HARDWARE 3
¢ COMPANY :

 

Alumni Return For Class Reunions

evening the guests watched a per-
formance of The Man of Destiny by
George Barnard Shaw which was
given by the Troubadour players di-
rected by Dr. Cecil D. Jones.

Saturday’s festivities commenced
with The State of the University dis-
cussion in Lee Chapel presided over
by President Fred C. Cole.

After the State of the University
meeting, lunch was served in Evans
Dining Hall where President Cole
spoke briefly. Saturday afternoon
the alumni watched the W&L tennis
team defeat Hampden-Sydney.

Certainly one of the highlights of
the whole weekend was the Alumni
Golf Tournament held at the Lex-
ington Golf Course where fourteen
alumni entered the match and all
walked off with a prize.

Saturday night each of the classes

held a dinner banquet using the|

facilities of the Mayflower Hotel,
the Robert E. Lee Hotel, and the
Virginia House Restaurant.

The very successful weekend came
to a close Sunday morning with the
Worship Service at Lee Chapel
where the Washington and Lee Glee
Club sang.

Radio Hospital
*
Radio, TV, Phonograph
Sales and Service

*
HO 3-3531

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

NOTICE
Commerce Fraternity meeting
Tuesday, May 9, 3 p.m. Newcomb.

 

 

 

 

 

aah

WED.-THURS.
“ONE OF THE YEAR'S FINEST!’”"—Times
r uu

 

 

  

 

 

 

LEXINGTON
CLEANERS

Phone HO 3-3813 108 S. Jefferson

 

 

For those extra pieces

of
FURNITURE

for your room
see our stock
before buying

e
VARNER AND POLE

 

 

 

 

Finest

SUNDAY

Ted’s Steak House

Choice Meats
Ww

Route 60 Buena Vista

9
€

Foods

DINNERS

 

 

The First National Bank

of Lexington
*
has special checking accounts

for students

 

 

 

 

Seeeeeeeeeeeeeeec-s7e

 

 

 

   

STUDENTS ACCOUNTS INVITED HERE
Member F. D.L. C.

 

 

 

 

 

EVERYTHING [5 THE SAME
DAY IN AND DAY OUT..

     

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

       

.- WHAT T NEED IS
A CHANGE

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

SH a

 

 

 

I OR she the aBe he she she she she ste the he Be Me ce

 

ee ee ee
Oe ee ee ee ee eee

she sXe ale ale te ole he cle slo cle Merk
ee ee eS ee Se eS ee

he Bede
ee ee eS SS ee eee eS Te

Shirt Service as You Like it

Quality Cleaning and Pressing
UNIVERSITY CLEANERS

HO 3-3622
*

“Your Campus Neighbors”

Se Me Be Me Be Me Be Be Me Be Me Be Bo he Me Be Be Me Be Be BeBe Be Be Ba Bade Bade Bae

OI ee ee ee

ee et a eS ae a ae et a ee eee ee ee

 

eee eee ee ee ee

she the Be she he she he he he este he Bee tae
—

eee eee ee ee ee eee eS SS ee ee ee ee

 

he Be Be Be Se Be Se Be cle Bale

Se se se ste ale

ale Me le ae ae le Me Be Be Me he Me Be Me Me Be Be Be Be Be Se Se Boe Be Be Ba Be Ba

 

S

You

Sie Be Me Be Be Be Be Be Be Be Me Be Be Be Be Be Be te te Be Be Be Bate Ba Bate ie Be a Ba Balan
re ee a a et ee ee ee ee ee

 

OR OO

ee ee ee ee

ale
OO EE ee ES Se eS eS eT TT ee

We Feature

EALTEST

Dairy Products

“To get the best get Sealtest’’

over twenty different products in addition to
delicious Sealtest ice cream

Block and Crushed Ice

tr favorite mixes—Ice Cold

x
Maple-Rock Distributors, Inc.

Phone HO 3-2168

Me the he Be Be Be Be Be Be Be Me Be Be Ba Be Be Be Bs Be Bc Bette Be Bode Bo Bee

ee ee ee ee ee
ee ee eee SS Se eS eS SS SS SS ee ee eee

 

 

Here’s one filter cigarette that’s really different!

The difference is this: Tareyton’s Dual Filter gives you a
unique inner filter of ACTIVATED CHARCOAL, definitely proved to
make the taste of a cigarette mild and smooth. It works together with
a pure white outer filter—to balance the flavor elements in the smoke.

Tareyton delivers—and you enjoy—the best taste of the best tobaccos,

—— pura LAVEVON

A A AA
Oe ee eee eee

ah
ee eee eS ee ee eS Se SS SS eS SS Se

‘Tareyton delivers the flavor...

 

    
 
  

outer filter

ACTIVATED
CHARCOAL
inner filter

“Shee ber aidiiziane ©. 7. co

 

 
FRIDAY
Editon

Che Ring-tum Phi

Washington and Lee Semi-Weekly Newspaper

FRIDAY
Edition

 

Volume LXI

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA, MAY 12, 1961

—

Number 56

 

Seven Students
Present Papers

At VMI Meet

Eight Washington and Lee
professors and seven students
are taking part in the program

of the 39th annual meeting of
the Virginia Academy of Science at
VMI, May 10-13.

Dr. William M. Hinton, head of
the W&L psychology department is
the immediate past president of the
Academy. An ex-officio member of
the Council of the Academy, Dr.
Hinton is working with the judging
and host committees of the confer-
ence. He has arranged for a dinner
at the Mayflower Hotel for the
Virginia Psychological Association,
which is meeting concurrently with
the Academy.

Dr. Hinton says that “Academy
members and visitors will be wel-
come” at Washington and Lee’s new
psychology department.

Dr. Edgar W. Spencer and Dr.
Kenneth F. Bick of Washington and
Lee’s geology department will con-
duct a geological field trip tomor-
row, while other university partici-
pants will present research papers
before the various sectional meetings.

Dr. Leonard E. Jarrard, assistant
professor of psychology, will pre-
sent a paper on “The effects of Sug-
gestion and of Benzadrine and Me-
probamate on Motor Performance.”
Dr. Jarrard’s paper is the cumulative
report of previous psychology class-
es here on the effects of stimulants
and tranquilizers.

Also, presenting papers in the
psychology section of the Academy
will be students Clarence M. White-
head, Richard S. Schulist, and Drew
P. Danko. Whitehead’s paper is
concerned with “The Counterbalanc-
ing Effects of Two Antagonistic
Drugs as Determined by Bar Press-
ing and Activity in the Rat,” and
Schulist’s report is entitled “The
Effects of the Color of Numbers and
Backgrounds on the Perception of
Tachistoscopically Presented Num-
bers.”

Danko’s presentation will be based
on the research for his honors thesis,
“The Effects of High and Low Dives
on Negative Transfer in a Maze
Learning Situation.”

In the chemistry division Dr.
John H. Wise, associate professor of
chemistry, and student Edward B.
Eadie will submit a paper on “Atom-
ic and Molecular Models.” In the
same division, Dr. James K. Shil-
lington, assistant professor of Chem-
istry, and students Rardon D. Bevill
and Henry C. Hawthorne will pre-
sent a research paper on “The Syn-
thesis of Hydrazidomalonic Acid and
Its Use as a Carbonyl Reagent.”

Geology instructor C. C. Roberts
will submit to the section of geology
his report on “A Preliminary study
of the concretions in the Romney
Shale, Highland County, Virginia.”

Reflecting on his secondary school
experiences, Meade Christian will
present his paper on “The Reactions
of the Student to Advanced Place-
ment Courses” to the science teach-
ers section of the Academy.

Dr. Edward F. Turner, Dr. John
H. Wise, and Dr. William H. Hinton
will judge exhibits of the Junior
Academy of Science in the physics,
chemistry, and miscellaneous sec-
tions, respectively.

 

Ed Holmes To Head R-t P
Circulation Department

Ed Holmes, rising SAE junior from
Winona, Miss., will head the circula-
tion staff of next year’s Ring-tum Phi,
Peter Agelasto, business manager-
elect, announced today.

Other members serving on next
year’s business staff include Wes Pipes,
rising Delt sophomore from Mobile,
Ala. Tuesday circulation; and Bill
Wilkinson, rising Beta sophomore
from Dallas, Texas, Friday circula-
tion.

Walt McManus, rising Phi Psi soph-
omore from Baltimore, will serve as
Tuesday advertising manager and Don
McFall, a rising SAE sophomore from
Charleston, W. Va., will head the Fri-
day advertising.

Office managers will be Joel Goozh,
rising ZBT junior from Washington,
D.C., and Dan Reed, Phi Psi rising
junior from Baltimore.

Next year the emphasis will be on
more informative ads and a greater
number of subscriptions.

A new position this year to handle
subscriptions will be headed by Skip
Jones, SAE, and Randy Wooten, Phi
Delt, who are both rising sophomores.

 

 

Finals Officers are: sitting, Calvin Adams, invitations; Al Broaddus, presi-

dent; Bob Street, accommodations; and standing are Glenn Fidler, cock-
tail party; Ed Ladd, decorations; Bill Willes, figure; and Dick Sharlin,

publicity.

—Photo by Bowen

 

Lee Research Grants

 

Students And Professors Conduct
Studies In Experimental Fields

By JOHN KIRKLEY
Friday Associate Editor

The Robert E. Lee Research
Fund has enabled some 25

Washington and Lee students:

to undertake faculty-directed
research projects this year, Dr.

William W. Pusey, dean of the

College, has announced.

Chemistry students have been
studying the ecentricities of a var-
iety of unprounceable compounds.
The Lexington market for white
rats has increased several times as
a result of vastly increased research
in the psychology department.

Budding historians and geologists
have been hard at work, as well as
students of American culture.

The Research Fund was set up
by a donation from Dr. Gustavus
Benz Capito, 99. The income from
the fund “is available to encourage
undergraduate student research
through faculty-student research
seminars and faculty-directed stu-
dent research projects,” according
to Dr. Pusey.

Dr. E. S. Gilreath, head of the

chemistry department, is conduct-
ing a long series of experiments to
determine the behavior of certain
inorganic substances in nonaqueous
media. Surprisingly enough, this is
a wide-open field, particularly the
study of solubilities in organic me-
dia.
Size of Particles Affects Stability
At the present time, Dr. Gilreath
is using methanol as the solvent
and has discovered some interesting
trends. For instance, he has found
that the relative size of the par-
ticles being put into solution af-
fects the solubility. The smaller
the cation of a substance, the greater
its solubility. On the other hand a
compound with a large anion, such
as Nal, is far more soluble than
one with a smaller anion, such as
NaCl.

Assisting Dr. Gilreath is Russell
E. Harner, a senior pre-med major.
They expect to continue the pro-
ject for several years, and are quite
pleased with results to date. So far,
the solubilities of fifty to seventy
salts in methanol have been de-
termined; for future work, other al-
cohols and also several ketones and
aldehydes will be used as solvents.

Changes In Freshman Chemistry

Three separate projects are being
carried out under the supervision
of Dr. Wise of the chemistry de-
partment. John Roper and Hugh
Trout are conducting an evaluation
of freshman experiments and lab
technique in preparation for sig-
nificant changes in the chemistry
program for freshman next year. As
usual there will be two lectures
but the two labs will be condensed
into one. The free period which this
year’s freshman have in their sche-
dule because of their having only
two lectures per week will become
a period for weekly testing and
problem solving. The time usually
devoted to problems at the begin-
ning of each laboratory period will
then be spent in the lab itself. Dr.
Wise feels that this program will
streamline the freshman chemistry
schedule considerably.

Atomic and molecular models are} is

being constructed by Ed Eadie to

 

be used as valuable teaching aids
in freshman and organic chemistry.
Ed will present a paper on his pro-
ject at the meeting of the Virginia
Academy of Science, today on the
VMI campus.

Bryan Miller is continuing a study
of the chemistry of nitrylchloride.
He is attempting to isolate this
chemical in a very pure form.

Study Mountains in Montana

Allan Curran assisted Dr. Spencer
during the past summer. For the past
eight years, Dr. Spencer has been con-
ducting an intensive study of a moun-
tain range in Montana to determine
1) the way in which the mauntains
were forded and 2) the early physical
history of this particular range.

In pre-Cambrian times, this area
of North America was covered by
seas the floors of which were form-
ed of sedimentary rock. About 2.7
billion years ago, a severe deforma-
tion of the crust of the earth oc-
curred. This upheaval created a
mountain range and turned the
sedimentary rocks into metamor-
phic rocks. A second deformation
occurred a billon years later and a
second range was formed. Finally,
only 70 million years ago, a third
orogeny produced the Rockies, which
now contain traces of the earlier
mountain ranges and the oldest rocks
in North America. These old rocks
are found in the core of the new
mountain belt and usually at high
altitudes.

This summer, Dr. Spencer is re-
turning to Montana with Phi Gams
Rick Belser and Richenbough Mc-
Williams to conclude his studies.
He will publish his final treatise
on hi sfinding in 1964.

Isolating OL-3-Methylcycyo??!

Hank Hawthorne, a Phi Delt and
of the W&L Law Review; Bob Shep-
present time on the synthesis and
isolation of selected carbynyl de-
rivatives of hydrazidomalonic acid.
The major purpose of the experiment
is to prepare a reagent for the reso-
lution of recemic carbonyls. He is
testing the reactivity of certain re-
agents and has prepared a few de-
rivatives. Under the tutelage of Dr.
Shillington, Hank will resolve one
particular chemical this summer.
Dr. Shilling assured the Ring-tum
Phi that he would present Dr. Cole
with a significant amount of DL-3-
methyleyclohexaliden - ehydrazoma-
lonate earl next fall.

Teaching Machines

A very interesting series of ex-
periments is being carried on un-
der Dr. Jarrard of the psychology
department. Milford Schwartz, a
senior pre-med, is studying vebral
learning. His work concerns the
programming of materials for use
in the new teaching machines. The
specific problem he is workin on
now is possible responses to the
the machine. Should a student be
compelled to answer a question
about which he knows (or has learn-
ed) very little? Or would such ran-
dom guessing forge deleterious pat-
terns in the students mind?

Drew Danko, a senior Phi Psi who
intends to continue his study of
psychology in graduate school, is
studying the learning process using
white rats as subjects. His research
based on a modern theory of

(Continued on page 4)

 

Pat Dorn Band Signed For Final
Dance; Concert To Go Outside

Vice-Presidents Of Finals
Are Sharlin, Fidler, Willes,
Ladd, Street, Adams

The selection of six students as vice-
presidents of Finals Dances headlined
a series of important announcements
made jointly by the Dance Board and
Finals Dance Set president Al Broad-
dus.

Serving as vice-presidents for the
two-day observance of the school
year’s end will be Dick Sharlin, ZBT,
a graduating senior from Washington,
D.C.; Glenn Fidler, a graduating Sig-
ma Nu from Augusta, Georgia; Bob
Street, a graduating KA from Okla-
homa City, Oklahoma; Calvin Adams,
Sigma Nu, a graduating senior from
Tallulah, Louisiana; Ed Ladd, a grad-
uating Beta from Mobile, Alabama;
and Bill Willes, a graduating Sigma
Nu from Fort Pierce, Florida.

Broaddus and his vice-presidents
will lead the figure for the formal
dance to be given Tuesday, May 30
from 9-1. The gym will be decorated
in accordance with the general theme
for the Dance Set, that of Charles
Schulz’s comic strip, “Peanuts.”

The concert, scheduled for 3-5
p.m. on Wednesday, May 31, will be
held outside at a location soon to
be announced. Conventional Dress
will not be required for this after-
noon concert. The Dance Board has
stated that it will not admit any
couple not dressed in a respectable
manner. Conventional Bermudas and
sports shirts will be considered re-
spectable.

There will be no drinking of any
..kind at the open-air concert, and no
cups will be allowed. Violators of
this rule will be subject to admin-
istrative action.

 

Bar Association

Picks Bob Frank

Robert G. Frank, a rising senior law
student from Salem, Virginia, was
elected president of the Student Bar
Association for the fall semester of the
next school year at a recent meet-
ing of the Association. Other officers
elected at the meeting include Charles
Stow, vice-president; Ted Tate, sec-
retary; and W. R. Moore, treasurer.

Frank is, at present, president of the
intermediate class, a member of the
Law Review, a member of the Board
of Governors and an officer in Phi
Delta Phi legal fraternity. He has
recently been chosen to be an asso-
ciate editor of the Law Review for
the next semester.

Immediately prior to the Student
Bar Association meeting, Dean Charles
P. Light, Jr. presided at the presenta-
tion of various legal volumes to those
students who had excelled in extra-
curricular activities this year. Those
honored were Paul Coffey, SBA pres-
ident fall semester and associate edi-
tor of the W&L Law Review; John
Morrison, SBA president spring sem-
ester; Joel Kocen, Editor-in-Chief of
the W&L Law Review, spring 1961.

Also Macon Putney, Editor-in-Chief
of the W&L Law Review, fall 1961;
Bill Clark, winner of the Burks Com-
petition; Ted Tate, member of the
1961 Moot Court team; Dick Rose,
member of the 1961 Moot Court team;
Bill Miller, president of Delta Theta
Phi; Frank Hoss, president of Phi
Alpha Delta; Mike Masinter, president
of Phi Delta Phi and associate editor
of the W&L Law Review; Bob Shep-
herd, associate editor of the W&L Law
Review; and Chris Harrell, editor of
the W&L Lawyer.

 

V.M.I. Debates W&L

Hunter Manson and V.M.I. cadets
Warren McNamara and _ Randolph
Hamner tied for first place on Tues-
day night in the first annual speech
night competition between the Vir-
ginia Military Institute and Washing-
ton and Lee. Bill Buice and V.MLI.’s
Binford Peay tied for second place.

The contest matched selected W&L
students and V.M.I. cadets enrolled in
speech courses at both institutions.
Each contestant gave a 6-8 minute
persuasive talk on a subject of his
choice. At W&L both Manson and
Buice were chosen by their respective
speech classes to represent W&L.

The judges for the contest were Dr.
J. J. Murray, a retired Lexington
minister; Dr. George Turner, profes-
sor of history at W&L; and Lt. Col.
George L. Roth, of the V.M.I. English
department.

 

Dean Pusey
Announces
New Professors

by JOHN LACKEY

Six new members of the faculty
will begin teaching at Washington and
Lee this fall, Dean of the College
William W. Pusey announced yester-
day. They are Lyman R. Emmons,
assistant professor of biology; Robert
W. Kenny, assistant professor of his-
story; J. Thomas Ratchford, assistant
professor of physics; Samuel J. Ko-
zak, Jr., instructor in geology; Dana
W. Swan, II, instructor in physical
education; and Stanislaw Zimic, in-
structor in romance languages.

All appointments are effective Sep-
tember 1, 1961. Dean Pusey said.

Mr. Swan is the only actual addi-
tion to the teaching staff. All the other
appointments fill vacancies caused by
resignations or leaves of absence.

Mr. Emmons, 33, is a B.S. graduate
of Trinity College, and an M.A. grad-
uate of the University of Virginia. He
is currently working toward his Ph.D.
at U.Va. He taught at the Episcopal
High School in Alexandria in 1951-
1957. He is married and the father of
a two-year-old son.

Mr. Kenny, 28, holds degrees from
the University of Texas and the Uni-
versity of Minnesota, and is currently
working toward his Ph.D. at the Uni-
versity of Chicago. He is married and
the father of a son.

Mr. Ratchford, 25, graduated from
Davidson College in 1957 and receiv-
ed his M.A. degree in 1959 from the
University of Virginia, where he ex-
pects to receive his Ph.D. in June.
He has been a teaching assistant at
U.Va. for two years. He is married.

Mr. Kozak, 30, is a graduate of Bates
College and Brown University. He is
currently working toward his Ph.D.
at the State University of Iowa, where
he is serving as an instructor.

Mr. Kozak will replace Dr. Ken-
neth Bick, who has resigned to go to
the College of William and Mary in
Williamsburg where he will join sev-
eral other professors in forming a new
geology department there.

Mr. Swan, 28, is a B.A. graduate of
Swarthmore College and has done
graduate work toward his master’s
degree at the University of Pennsyl-
vania. He is currently an instructor
in English literature at Pennsylvania
Military College.

(Continued on page 4)

 

DuBose Chosen President
Of Commerce Fraternity

Thirteen men were elected to mem-
bership in the Commerce Fraternity,
an honorary society for those major-
ing in commerce and economics at a
meeting Wednesday afternoon. Quali-
fication for membership requires that
those initiated have at least a 1.5 av-
erage in their commerce subjects.

New members from the rising senior
class include Bob Lewis, Warren Mills,
Dave Benn, Louis Westfield, Peter
Agelasto, Carl Connell, and Rick Kurz.

From the rising junior class, Bill
Young, George Missbach, Bill Board-
man, Jud Babcock, Fred Baker, and
Howard Bing were selected for mem-
bership.

Also at the Wednesday meeting, Bo
DuBose, a PiKA rising senior from
Atlanta, Georgia, was elected as pres-
ident of the fraternity. He succeeds
Billy McWilliams.

Other officers elected for next year
were Charlie Commander, vice-presi-
dent; Dunlop Ecker, treasurer; and Bill
Outman, secretary.

President DuBose _ reminded all
members and initiatees of the fraterni-
ty that the annual spring party will be

 

 

held this year at Goshen on Tuesday, |
May 16, at 4:00 p.m. It wil be held |
in the “pavilion” next to the Maury |

River, and refreshments will be served.

|
|

Popular Eastern Group Noted

For Versatile Arrangements

Pat Dorn and his Orchestra, a popular group in the East,
but little-known on Southern campuses, has been signed to
play for Finals Dances. Dorn will perform at the formal dance
in Doremus Gym on Tuesday, May 31, from 9-1.

“Dorn and his group have made a sensational impact on

the college and society scene,” said Dance Board Vice-president
*Bob Bridewell.

The main reason for the Dorn
success lies in the balance and
smooth arrangements in the band,
according to Bridewell. It is not
unusual for the Dorn Orchestra to
be performing for a big debutant
party where the accent is on the
“two beat tempos or show tunes”
and then the next night play for a
college group favoring popular swing
or ballads, he said.

Observers say that Dorn has used
his many years in the music field to
effectively combine a big band sound
with a delicate balance for sweet,
soft listening and romantic dancing.
He has a solid brass section to en-
liven a dance with show tune fav-
orties. to insure possession of the
“sound” he wants by personal super-
vision of his music arrangements and
the maintenance of a large staff of
musicians. Dorn’s arrangers have
written into his performances the
styles and sounds of the “great
bands” so that on a Dorn engage-
ment the audience hears all their
favorites played by one band.

Washington and Lee is not new
to Dorn. During World War II he
attended the University’s special
service chool. In his class were such
famous entertainers as Mickey
Rooney and Joe E. Brown, son of
the comedian Joe E. Brown. After
his training on the Washington and
Lee campus, Dorn began producing
shows and dances and later traveled
to the Pacific to perform for United
States troops there.

At the close of 1945, Dorn decided
to accept a position in Japan rather
than return home on rotation. In
Toyko, Yokahama, and the moun-
regions of Japan he toured with a
band in a Japanese show.

Since his return to the United
States, Dorn has steadily built up a
large following. One of the highlights
of his recent college tour was a
performance at Yale, where he and
his orchestra accompanied singer
Roy Hamilton.

 

Wheeler Granted Leave
To Plan Encyclopedia

Dr. John Harvey Wheeler, profes-
sor of political science at Washington
and Lee, has been granted a two-
year leave of absence to take part
in formulation of a “master plan”
for future editions of the Encyclo-
pedia Britannica.

Dr. Wheeler will work at the Cen-
ter for the Study of Democratic
Institutions in Santa Barbara, Calif.,
a research center supported by the
Fund for the Republic, Inc.

Dr. Wheeler says the Encyclo-
pedia Britannica has contracted with
the center to provide a plan for
overall revision of future editions of
the world-famous reference work.

Dr. Wheeler described the project
as formulation of a “master plan,”
not just an editing or rewriting as-
signment. The first edition of the
encyclopedia embodying the new
concept which Dr. Wheeler and
others will devise is expected in 1969.

While in Santa Barbara, Dr.
Wheeler will continue to do research
and writing in political theory with
support from the Center for the
Study of Democratic Institutions.
The center has supported his work
in this area for several years.

Dr. Wheeler joined the Washington
and Lee faculty in 1954 as an asso-
ciate professor. He was promoted to
full professor in 1957.

Dr. Wheeler received his Ph.D.
degree from Harvard, where he was
an instructor in political science in
1949-50. From 1950-54 he served as
asistant professor of political science
at Johns Hopkins University.

ANNOUNCEMENT

Entries for the Senior Library
Contest are due in by May 16.
Mr. Coleman, W&L Librarian, will
supplied on request.
 

 

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

Che Ring-tum Phi
Friday Edition
Member of Virginia Intercollegiate Press Association

 

Talk’s Cheap, But...

A temporary truce has been declared in
the noisy war between the “torpid,’ or “‘con-
tented,” University Party and the Indepen-
dent Party. No issue of Protest has appeared
in over a week. Is our experiment in democ-
racy at an end?

We think not. There will always be a need
for more participation by students in their
own campus affairs. The past month’s enter-
taining spurt of polemics and demagoguery
kept us entertained with a sizeable amount of
hard work being left undone.

Now we are confronted with the disagree-
able tasks of forming the Assimilation Com-
mittee, the Cold Check Committee, and the

Student Library Committee. Somebody has
to be chairman of those erstwhile groups.

Whether the Ring-tum Phi is free, or not,
someone has to go out and get the news which
fills our columns.

Now they are talking about forming a
Dance Board advisory committee.

We wonder if there will be anyone left
for the Legislative Assembly. One thing is
certain—if more men cannot be found who
care enough about student government to
plunge in and work at the little jobs that have
to be done, then many of our politicians will
look very silly indeed.

A Great Stimulus

In its first year of operation, the Lee Re-
search Grant program has been very success-
ful. Seven Washington and Lee students will
join professors in presenting papers to the
Virginia Academy of Science meeting at VMI
this weekend.

Bill Buice and Bill Boardman, who were
outstanding competitors on the Eastern de-
bate circuit this year, were aided by Lee
Grants.

The program subsidized many other less
spectacular, but equally worthwhile, scholarly
efforts by students here. Associate editor John
Kirkley’s article today shows in detail just how
popular the program has been with both stu-
dents and faculty.

We feel sure that Dr. Capito’s generous
endowment has begun what will prove to be a
great stimulus to serious scholarship at Wash-
ington and Lee.

They May Have A Point

Jon McLin’s letter from Oxford points
out that the British have realized for some time
that we can’t try to “beat”? communism. We
are living in a revolutionary world and so far
it appears that we are on the losing end of it.

What American observers are finally be-
ginning to believe is that we must sell our own
revolution to the uncommitted peoples. The
United States, sooner or later, must take a
stand for individual freedom. However we
choose to define freedom, all of us must agree
that the government in Washington has sup-
ported a great many enemies of freedom in
our vain attempts to hold the line against

communism.

Freedom is still revolutionary. We must
be willing to demand it from the Francos, and
Salazars, and Chiang Kai-Sheks, if we do not
want more Cubas on our hands. We betray
our own concept of democracy every day.

The editorial Jon sent us from the Lon-
don Observer which is printed below describes
all too well our present state of mind. We will
be on the defensive around the world until we
change this attitude, and offer to the world our
own alternative to communism. It will be a bit-
ter business, but we stand to gain more friends
in the long run than we will lose.

London Observer Says U. S. Is Colonialistic

London Observer editorial for Sunday,
April 30, 1961:

It would be comforting to believe that the
Cuban adventure was an isolated blunder,
partly inherited from the previous Admin-
istration. But all President Kennedy’s speeches
and actions since then, and the reactions of the
American Press, suggest that this was not so.
The Cuban intervention sprang from a par-
ticular view of the world which the President
fully shares, which most Americans approve,
and which at present sharply divides the
United States from most of her allies and
from all the neutral nations.

To a far greater extent than they would
like to admit, our American friends are the
prisoners of an ideology almost as narrow as
that of the Communists and just as fervently
believed. His Communist ideology makes Mr.

Khrushchev believe that the Government of
the United States is run by Mr. Rockefeller
and that capitalists Powers will, ultimately,
always use force to protect their investments.
The American ideology equates capitalism
not only with freedom but very nearly with
virtue. The nationaliztion of an American
company by a small nation seems to most
Americans—though not, it is fair to add, to
the President—proof of political sin so ob-
vious as to require no further discussion.

To nearly all Americans, Communism is
an evil as absolute as Nazism or as murder,
and anyone who questions this dogma must
already be infected by the contagion. They
decline to notice any difference between Khru-
shchev’s Russia and Stalin’s Russia. They ig-
nore the case of Yugoslavia, where Commun-

(Continued on page 4)

 

Is Race War Beginning Now?

By VICTOR LASSETER

On a book rack in the local book
shop there is a volume entitled
Goddamn White Man unobtrusively
placed between The Conscience of a
Conservative and The Liberal Hour.
Because of its violent denunciation
of white man’s racial policy in colon-
ial Africa this book would not have
gone unnoticed ten years ago. Today,
after the national uprisings in
Africa, Goddamn White Man is only
another indication of a growing
world-wide conflict between blacks
and white. The book does not seem
ultra-radical or scandalous to us;
it is rather another sound of the
tocsin such as Alan Paton’s Cry, The
Beloved Country, written in 1948
as an indictment of South Africa’s
apartheid policy.

These social manifestoes, how-
ever, are rather tepid in contrast
to the boiling intensity reached by
some contemporary negro move-
ments. Here in America, for ins-
tance, we have the already notor-
ious Black Muslims, whose avow-
ed aim is to reverse, by any pos-
sible methods, the present racial
standards of the world. The Black
Muslims do not want racial equali-
ty; they want to dominate the whites

 

socially, politically, and economical-
ly, just as they feel the whites have
dominated them.

Some observers have pointed out
that the fanatical Muslims have
little chance of capturing support
of the moderate Negro majority in
America. Nonetheless, the violent op-
position of this group to all aspects
of white culture must be considered
as the direct result of the white
man’s policy of repression, discrimi-
nation, and segregation.

Even if we could achieve complete
racial equality within the next few
years the Muslims would not turn
to a policy of moderation; they do
not want to live under our system
they want to destroy it.

Other Negro groups in America
are willing to wait for progress:
the NAACP, the Atlanta student
groups, and certain groups in Phila-
delphia, and they are enjoying im-
mense success. The state of Georgia
is already having to face the distinct
possibility of integrated schools, and
Virginia’s private school plan seems
to be faced with extinction by the
federal courts.

In Philadelphia Negro ministers
have organized a large majority of
that city’s 750,000 Negroes in whole-

 

sale economic boycotts of firms
which refuse to hire Negroes in
white-collar positions. The effect of
their boycotts, or of their antici-
pated boycotts, has led such power-
ful companies as Coca-Cola, Esso,
and Atlantic Oil to hire Negroes as
clerks, truck drivers, and junior ex-
ecutives.

In one sense, the Negro is still
the “white man’s burden,” but not
in the sense of Kipling’s pious pater-
nalism. The rise of the African Negro
states is now a prime factor in world
freedom and world ideology. We
have created the racial problera by
our colonialism and by our domestic
discrimination; the Negro is the
white man’s burden in order to in-
sure, perhaps, our very survival.

 

Page Elected ODK Head

Rosie Page has been elected presi-
dent of Alpha Circle of Omicron Del-
ta Kappa national leadership fraterni-
ty or next year. Tim Ireland was
elected vice president and Bill Out-
man, secretary.

ODK is now discussing possible
speakers for next year’s Tap Day.

Keys were presented to new initiates
last week.

 

Rhodes Scholar Reports:

 

British Newspapers Slam Kennedy Foreign Policy,
U. S. Ideology Over Fiasco In Cuban Intervention

By JON McLIN

Oxford, May 3—President Ken-
nedy’s honeymoon with the British
press ended abruptly as a result of
his actions in the recent Cuban re-
bellion.

The change is significant in view
of the warmth with which reporters,
editorialists and columnists have
regarded him since the fall elec-
tion campaign. During that time, and
indeed, in the first months of his
government, the British press re-
garded him so sympathetically that
even an American reader could not
complain about its lack of objectiv-
ity.

But the last two weeks British
papers have not hesitated to criti-
cize roundly his words and actions
with reference to Cuba. And this
attack has not been limited to the
Manchester Guardian, whose editor-
ials have been widely publicized in
the Washington Post and elsewhere
in the U.S.

In the London Observer, for ex-
ample, appeared last Sunday an edi-
torial entitled “Blinkers,” which
said: “The Cuban intervention
sprang from a particular view of
the world which the President fully
shares, which most Americans ap-
prove, and which at present sharply
divides the United States from most
of her allies and from all the neutral
nations.

“To a far greater extent than they
would like to admit, our American
friends are the prisoners of an ideol-
ogy almost as narrow as that of the
Communist and just as fevently be-
lieved.... This view of the world is
a dangerously over-simplified one.
... It would be a grotesque and dis-
abling consequence of an emotional
anti-Communism if the West, which

 

ought to be the pioneer of tolerance,
came to appear almost as intolerant
and blinkered as those it opposes.”

This editorial, which is printed in
full on these pages, is a trenchant
summary of the British view of the
way America conducts her foreign
affairs. Without commenting on this
over-all view—which contains an
uncomfortably large element of
truth—a few points may be made
about Cuba.

First, let it be said that criticism
of the U.S. has not been limited
to those who also condemned
Britian’s intervention in Suez. It
is true that the Guardian and the
Observer have been the most out-
spoken, and they were consistent
in opposing their own govern-
ment’s intervention in Suez.

But just as frequent are those
who criticize the action not on
moral grounds—for the British
have disengaged foreign affairs
from morality to a degree which it
would behoove us to emulate—
but on the grounds that it failed.

According to these realists, one
either commits an act of overt ag-
gression, with all the hostile opinion
which it engenders, and accomplish-
es his mission; or he refrains from
taking any action at all. But to make
a half-hearted attempt which will
not remove the “Castro threat” but
which nevertheless leads to great
public hostility and loss of face is
utterly fatuous.

Most people here cannot under-
stand the failure of Americans to
grasp two features of the leftward-
leaning governments such as Cas-
tro’s. First, the people of the coun-
try involved may genuinely support
the government, whether it be Cas-

tro, Lumumba, or the Pathet Lao.
(This lesson seems to have been
learned the hard way in Cuba when
the invasion failed to produce mass
defections to the rebels’ side.)

Secondly, though such leftward-
leaning Governments may not be
Communist, the Communists are glad
when the President and the State
Department brand them as _ such.
And so to identify them is often to
force them to take a stand and to
embrace more closely a Communism
which they deplore. This point was
made by Mr. Khrushchev to Walter
Lippman, on the latter’s recent visit
to Moscow. In words to this effect he
said “There will be uprisings in
other countries, and you will call
them Communist-inspired. And we
will be glad to have it appear that
the side of freedom and progress is
always the side of the Communists.”

No doubt there is great regret in
Latin America that what was to have
been a new and different policy of
the U.S. towards their needs has
turned out to be but a new form of
the old paternalism. The progress
which might have been made in
Latin American relations—the area
which President Kennedy called
“second in importance only to na-
tional defense’”—has been lost.

The sad capstone to the whole af-
fair, as viewed from Britain, is
President Kennedy’s request for a
self-imposed censorship by the press
of criticism of the government’s ac-
tions. To have made such a request
of a press which, in Europe as well
as the U\S., is already lacking in
objectivity toward his Administra-
tion seems a bit too much. National
unity is a grand thing, but to unify
in support of a mistaken policy can
be national folly.

 

Grad Grimley Still Going Great;
Dislikes Ivies! Still Loves W&L

By STEVE HENRY

Roy J. Grimley, class of 1921,
came back to Washington and Lee
last week for the reunion, You may
have seen him around campus, sport-
ing a ten gallon hat and new
Cadillac.

You were looking at the man who
is probably the most gung-ho alum-
nus ever to pick up a sheepskin at
this institution.

Mr. Grimley lives, breathes, and
dreams Washington and Lee.

We talked to him for three hours
in his room at the Mayflower—a
room brimming over with material
dealing with the university and its
founders.

He has Robert E. Lee lithographs,
Robert E. Lee letters, Robert E. Lee
etchings.

He has a woodcut of the university
made in 1845. Under a magnifying
glass, he showed us a flaw in the
cut, namely that the statue of old
George was off center.

He has a king-size copy of the
Washington and Lee stamp issued
in 1949.

In case you didn’t know it, and
we didn’t, Washington and Lee does
have a stamp all its own, a blue
and white job showing the colon-
nade and George Washington and
Robert E. Lee, all in one dose.

Mr. Grimley was personally re-
sponsible for the stamp.

Appointed a committee of one by
former W&L President Francis P.
Gaines, Mr. Grimley carried the
fight for the stamp all the way to
the hallowed floors of Congress.

After months of negotiations and
lobbying by Mr. Grimley, the stamp
appeared on April 12, 1949, the date
of the W&L bi-centennial celebra-
tion.

Mr. Grimley got ODK for that
little trick.

Dear reader, we hope that you are
beginning to see the light: Roy J.
Grimley is not APATHETIC.

“There are just two schools in the
country so far as I’m concerned,”
said he. “One of them is Washington
and Lee and the other isn’t.”

Mr. Grimley came to W&L back
in the good old days, say around
1917.

A self-styled “barefoot boy” from
Ridgewood, New Jersey, he backed
into Lexington on the B&O and
settled down for a college career.

Why did he come to Lexington in
the first place?

“Never had heard of any other
school except Washington and Lee.”

What did a W&L man do for kicks
in those days?

“Climbed House Mountain or
hiked to Staunton.”

Mr. Grimley told us of a trip he
and three classmates made to Wash-
ington to see a football game be-
tween W&L and Georgetown. After
a short hike from Fairfield to Staun-
ton Mr. Grimley and friends hopped
a train and made it to D.C. just in

 

time to watch the Generals pull a
major upset over nationally ranked
Georgetown. They made it back to
class on Monday “a little tired but
richer.” The odds were 20-1 against
W&L.

Oddly enough, Mr. Grimley be-
lieves that the present athletic pro-
gram is “for the better” even though
football “did W&L a lot of good.”

“Scholarships educated a lot of
boys who couldn’t have made it here
otherwise.”

“The scandals were a catastrophe,
but some people made a mountain
out of a mole hill. Everyone was
to blame that the thing happened in

  

Mr. Grimley and Gen. Lee

the first place, and not just the boys
involved.”

We skipped the subject before it
got too deep.

Asked about the social life in the
old days, Mr. Grimley recalled the
dance weekends.

“The girls would come in from all
over the country, dragging their
colored mammy’s and chaperones
with them. All the girls brought
trunks with them because they
needed a different outfit for every
occasion.”

How were the dances then?

“They were the big thing. We had
a stag line and people cut in when-
ever they felt like it. It wasn’t like
today when you shove one girl
around the floor all night until you
get sick and tired of her.”

Mr. Grimley especially remembers
one date he had with a chaperone

of two young things from Richmond. | ?

Her name was Wallace Warfield
then. You might have heard of her
as Wallace Simpson, who was
enough woman to make a man give
up a throne.

That was the party life in the
early 1920's.

We could hardly help mentioning
to Mr. Grimley the current wave
of call for change around the cam-
pus.

(Continued on page 4)

 

Excavation Could Be
Answer To Maypoles
Says Pacifist Craven

By THORNS CRAVEN
Former Friday Columnist

It seems that in all the changes
that have been taking place in the
print shop, swapping KA’s for SAE’s
and vice versa, I sort of fell in the
hole next door, and consequently
I didn’t make the Tuesday edition
this week with the rest of
the gang. Hence, I can’t say any-
thing too caustic about anything that
appeared this Tuesday, my name
being on the masthead.

But the Friday edition, while real-
izing that I am a bit of renegade
this week decided that it would be
unfair to deprive you of whatever
would have been in Tuesday’s paper
if I had known that I was supposed

_|to write. So the shortened title of

this is: “Words of Wisdom Written
on Thursday for Publication on the
Previous Tuesday, Going into Print
on Friday, Perhaps, or at least next
Tuesday.”

I think with a title like that there’s
hardly any need for the rest of the
column. And after reading a title
like that probably no one will read
anymore. I would apologize for this,
but the weather isn’t quite right for
apologies yet, and neither is the
hole in the ground behind the Law
School.

Just like Daylight Savings Time,

"| the hole presents a goud idea for a
_'|column. Unfortunately everyone in
| this school is a frustrated columnist,

and so all the wisecracks about the
hole have already been thrown in.
That’s what everyone is using their
extra hour doing this week, com-
menting on the whole thing. So far
no one has said that it represents
W&L’s answer to the maypoles at all
the girls’ schools, but we’re probably
better off that no one has.

Speaking of girls’ schools, or rid-
ing academies as Harvey Allen likes
to call them, there is something to
be said for them. So after refraining
all year, I'll say it: Hollins. That ful-
fills an obligation of mine, and also

(Continued on page 4)

Che Ring-tun Phi

Friday Edition

The Ring-tum Phi is published Tues-
day and Friday during the college year.
It is printed by the Journalism Labor-
atory Press, Washington and Lee Uni-
versity. The mailing address is Box
899, Lexington, Va,

Entered as second class matter Sep-
tember 20, 1946 at the Post Office, Lex-
ington Va., under the act of March

878

National Advertising Representative:
The National Advertisers Service, Inc.,
420 Madison Ave., New York, N.Y.

 

Editor-in-Chief................ Nathan Simpson
Business Manager.............. Huntley Biggs
Editorial Board
Managing Editor................ George Honts

Assistant Managing Editor..........:000
Roy Goodwin

      

 

 

News Editor... wueeAndy Nea
Sports Editor.. John Allgood
Copy Editor...... Tom Jordan
Assistant Copy Editor.. .Dick Heard
| Photography ‘Editor............. Bill Bowen

| Advertising Manager......Edward Holmes

Circulation Manager.......... Peter Agelesto

re eee neem

 

 
THE RING-TUM PHI

Page 3

 

W&L Still Getting Grid Talent,
‘61 Frosh Prospects Look Bright

By BOB BROWNE

Washington and Lee’s football
Generals, with experience and man-
power to spare, should remain on
the good side of the won-lost col-
umn in 1961,

After next year, what? There is a
solid nucleus of talent moving up
from this year’s freshman squad
which will complement a squad of
veterans including Tommy Keesee,
Charlie Gummey, Bob Payne and

 

 

Tough Work—W&L Player Tries To Control Face-Off

 

Lacrosse Team Ends Season

At Charlottesville Tomorrow
By BARRY GREENE

Coach Bob McHenry’s varsity lacrosse squad travels to
Charlottesville Saturday hoping to spring an upset on the
heavily favored Virginia Cavaliers. The game will wrap up the

season for the Generals, whose
and eight losses.

record now stands at three wins

McHenry, who scouted UVa. in its 8-1 win over Wash-

ington University, called the Wahoos*

“one of the best teams in the coun-
try.”

“Virginia has lost to some of the
best teams, and has given every one
of the top-ranked teams a good
game. Right now I’d rank them sixth
in the States behind Navy, Hopkins,
Maryland, Baltimore and Army.”

Wahoo standouts include Henry
(Punch) Peterson, a possible All-
American, who ranks as UVa.’s best
attack man.

The Generals’ John Dinkel will
cover Peterson.

Virginia also has two top-rated
midfielders, Hi Levasseur and John
Stokerson. W&L’s John McDaniel
will defend against Levasseur and
Charlie Gummey or Steve Suttle
will try to hold down Storkeson.

The Wahoo’s best defenseman is
Goalie Booty Nice.

Both Storkeson and Nice traveled
to Australia with the combined
UVa.-W&L team in 1959. Three
other members of the UVa. squad
also made the trip, including Mid-
fielder Jay Taylor, Ken Sappington
and Don Spillman.

Long Year

This has ben a long year for the
Generals in lacrosse.

McHenry, apologizing for making
excuses, said that injuries hurt the
team more than anything else.

“We didn’t have the depth because
of injuries. You’ve got to have at
least one full field scrimmage a
week to get anything shaped up.
We haven’t had the men available to
hold these scrimmages. Last game
we only had 17 men suit up for the
game.”

The picture against UVa. is bleak.

In a pre-season scrimmage, the

 

 

Wahoos blasted the Generals 17-3.
Also, UVa. has performed much
better against the teams which both
they and the Generals have met. Ex-
ample: Washington University,

(Continued on page 4)

Mighty Davidson College needs
help.

The Davidson student body is ap-
pealing to outstanding Southern
Colleges and such top non-Southern
| institutions as the Colorado School
| of Mines for help.

The problem: The Davidson Col-
lege Executive Committee has
found it necessary to restrict Mr.
David N. Dakin, a talented young
soccer player, to this campus for
a two-week period for his ir-
responsible failure last Novem-
ber to return an athletic supporter
belonging to the College.

 

The delay in the Committee’s ac-
tion in sentencing this poor athlete
has been attributed to the lengthy
deliberation required for so serious
and costly a matter.

 

 

TOLLEY’S PHARMACY

Prescriptions Filled
Immediately

PURCHASE DRUGS
HO 3-2211

 

Hamric and Sheridan
JEWELERS

Watch and Jewelry Repair
Hand Engraving and Class Rings

HO 3-2022

 

 

 

Pee beet eeeteeeedeeee
CALL BY NUMBER
and Save Time

LEXINGTON
* TELEPHONE CO. *

#
oode obo ode oko obo oko oe oko abe ole oko obo ole whe fe ofe fe ofe oe ole ofe veel

:

 

TETLOW
TV Service

221 S. Main HO 3.2841

 

 

 

 

 

FOR 200M RESERVATIONS—CALL HO 3-2151
LEXINGTON MOTEL

Large Rooms—U. S. 11 By-Pass South
Free TV—Phones—Continental Breakfast
Only Motel in corporate limits of Lexington
COOOSSSSOSSSSHOSSOHOHOSHOHHOHOSSOSESSEHOSESO OOOO LESS

 

 

other football playing members of
the rising junior class.

But is Washington and Lee
bringing in new talent with next
year’s freshman class?

“Yes, indeed,” smiled Coach Mac
this week, as he told a Ring-tum
Phi reporter about some of the hot-
test prospects moving into the W&L
camp next year.

From Frankfort, Ky., comes Hal
“Skipper” Chase. Chase, a six-footer,
who plays both end and left half-
back, was selected the Most Valuable
Player in the All Central Kentucky
Conference.

Martinsville High will send the
Generals a fullback and lineback-
er named Dan Mason, Mason, a
three-year letterman, weights 184
and stands 5’ 10”. During his three
prep years, Martinsville racked up
a 22-8-0 record.

 

Sports Barbecue
Monday At 4:30

The Washington and Lee Annual
Sports Barbecue will be held on
Monday, May 15, at 6:30 p.m. at
Captain Dick Smith’s farm, it was
announced this week by Athletic
Director Cy Twombly.

Varsity monograms and _fresh-
man numerals will be presented in
addition to various athletic awards
presented to outstanding perform-
ers in W&L sports.

Last year’s winners included
Karl E. Rohnke (most valuable
athlete); Phil Sharp (baseball);
Mal Lassman (basketball); Bill
Loeffler (cross-country); Bart
Dick (football); Terry Fohs (foot-
ball).

Also Jack Vardaman, Jr. (golf);
Jay Stull (lacrosse); John Morton
and James Head (rifle team); Frank
Smith (soccer); Elliott Maynard
(swimming).

Also Billy McWilliams (tennis);
Sandy Mersereau and Graham Ful-
ton (wrestling); Tab Bunkley
(track); Charlie Gummey (best
freshman athlete), Michael Apple-
field (lacrosse).

Rohnke won two other awards in
addition to his most valuable ath-
lete title. He was named winner
of the Winks Glasgow Award and
the Forest Fletcher Track Trophy.

The Class of ’62 has taken im-
mediate action and has set up the
“David Dakin Jockey Fund.” The
purpose of this fund is to defray
the losses sustained by the College
at the end of each soccer season
when players fail to return their
supporters.

Davidson is currently conduct-
ing its first annual Spring Fund-
Raising Drive. It needs your help
or its whole athletic program might
fail.

Letters of sympathetic encourage-

SPENCER

General Tire
536 E. Nelson Street

Best in Tires
GENERAL

Best in Recapping
Kraft Tread

New and Used Tires
FOR COMPACT CARS

Frank Glenn is a Washington
State 190 pounder who played center
for Ilwaco High School in Long
Beach. A_ three-year  leterman,
Glenn led his team to an 8-1-0 rec-
ord and was named to the all-state
team.

Experience and talent, long miss-
ing around Wilson Field, is return-
ing in a big way.

 

Baseball Team Meets H-S

It seems that the weatherman is
the only person that can beat W&L’s
baseball team.

The Generals, who sport a 7-4
record, were prepared for a three-
game stretch drive this week, but
the weatherman rudely knocked out
two of those games.

A Monday encounter with Ran-
dolph-Macon and a Thursday clash
with Lynchburg were both rained
out.

The only remaining game is with
Hampden-Sydney tomorrow at 3:15
at Smith Field.

 

 

Abit cain

‘Old Panther’ Carpenter Fires His Fast One

 

 

Golfers Skunk ’Jackets, 10-0,
Finish Season With 7-2 Record

Washington and Lee’s golf team
put the wraps on a succesful sea-
son by shutting out Randolph-
Macon, 10-0, here Tuesday.

The Generals had every man at
75 or better to capture their seventh
win against two losses for the 1961
season.

Jack Vardaman and Warren
Hughes both posted 73’s over the
Lexington Country Club course to
tie for medalist. Will Lee and
Grantham Couch had 74 apiece.

Beginning the season with only
two returning lettermen, the links-
ters blasted everyone on the sche-
dule except Richmond and George
Washington.

Wins

W&L posted wins over MIT,
Lynchburg, Roanoke, West Virginia,
Hampden-Sydney, Randolph-Macon
and William and Mary.

Both losses were played on the

 

 

home course of the opposing teams,

LFF FF FFF FF FE

Davidson Students A ppeal For Help
| To Solve Urgent Athletic Problem

ment should be sent to the editor
of The Davidsonian, Davidson, N. C.
However, Davidson urgently needs a
supply of supporters. Send any spare
ones you have to the Executive
Committee, Davidson College,

Davidson, N. C.

 

 

Waggy’s Jewelers
35 S. Main Street
Phone HO 3-4121 }

THE HOME OF QUALITY

lt il til iti

 

 

Lexington
Laundro Matic

209 S. Main
o

HAND IRONED
SHIRTS

Dry Cleaning

Service

for your convenience

 

 

 

 

 

DIXON’S

ESSO SERVICE CENTER
ROUTE 60 EAST IN LEXINGTON
Across from the White Top Resturant
HO 3-4214

Wash, Grease, Lube, Road Service

Charge Accounts Welcome

and both were by the same score, |
5 1/2-3 1/2, a margin so slim that!
one more individual victory by a/|

W&L player could have changed the
loss to a win.

Perhaps the finest all-around per-
formance made by the golfers this
year came in the State Intercollegiate
Tournament at Hot Springs where
the Generals placed fourth in a field
of 12 schools.

The Generals, with Captain
Vardaman leading the way, shot
an aggregate team score of 632,
an average of less than 80 per 18
on a Cascades course made even
more difficult than usual by rain.

The Generals got outstanding in-
dividual performances during the
year from Vardaman, Couch, and
Will Lee.

Lee, a first year letterman, had an
8-1 individual record in match play.
He also placed in the top 10 in the
Greenbrier Invitational Tournament
which kicked off the season for the

.| Generals.

 

Coach Cy Twombly also praised
the play of sophomore Warren |
Hughes, who did not play a match}
for the Generals until state tourna-

ment, then posted 82-74 over the
Cascades for the second lowest score
on the squad.

All seven lettermen return next
year.

 

Phi Eta Sigma Elects

The officers of Phi Eta Sigma for
next year were elected this week.
They are Joe Goldstein, president;
Dave Bevans, vice president; Bill
Smith, secretary; and Meade Christ-
tian, treasurer.

Phi Eta Sigma honors freshmen who
distinguished themselves academical-
ly. To qualify a freshman must have
an average above a 2.5 during either
the first semester of his first year, or
a 2.5 overall for the year.

Goldstein succeeds Brian Vitsky,
outgoing president. The faculty advis-
or for Phi Eta Sigma is Dr. Charles
Turner.

Lereeereeeseeeoawrroerres

 

= ROBERT E. LEE

= BARBERSHOP *
z David M. Moore

: Proprietor

He ebeteterte oes obobetetetetedeobotetettededecttede

 

 

ee

na

HO 3

 

school...and leave

   
 

GREYHOUND
Washington and Lee
SUMMER
SPECIAL

 

125 S. McLaughlin
- 2424

SnD

 

Go Greyhound...leave your cares at

y its Te
prs a eM tes ys

  

 
     
 

Wherever you're going—home or
holiday trip—take advantage of
these low, low Greyhound fares:
Round
One Way Trip
Washington ..... anaes $ 6.38 $11.50
POW BOP cists 14.08 25.36
Se 7.98 14.36
Virginia Beach ............ 9.35 16.83
SS f 9.24
ae: kk j 15.68
Memphis ........... 39.44
Me oc 61.82

 

the driving to us!
 

Page 4

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

Rats And Mice Tortured;
Math’s Mysteries Probed

(Continued from page 1)

learning and his primary purpose
is to support this theory by experi-
mental data. His rats are trained to
avoid being shocked by a diabolical
little machine. If the rats press a
bar at the right moment, they de-
lay the shock for ten seconds and
occasionally receive a food pellet.
Drew is trying to find out if hungry
rats learn how to get their food
faster than well-fed, contented rats.

“Hot” White Rats

Ken Kowalski, a PiKA sophomore,
is studying the effects of radiation
on white mice in connection with
Dr. Jarrard’s studies in the same
area. Dr. Jarrard has received a
grant from the National Institute of
Health to conduct this research. The
rats are first trained to escape
shock and obtain food. After their
performance becomes fairly stand-
ard over a period of time, they are
subjected to varying degrees of
radiation and their behavior is again
tested for change. These experiments
are very significant, especially in the
light of recent Russian discoveries
in the same field.

The Russians claim that marked
changes in behavior are produced
by very slight, often undetectable,
changes in radioactivity and that
functional changes come about in
body cells before the tissue itself
is affected by the radiation. The
present work in the upper regions
of duPont Hall is preliminary to a
later testing of possible drugs to
counteract the pernicious effects of
radiation.

Electromotive force measurements
and phase studies of a molten salt
system of KNO3, AgNO3, and
K2CrO4 fused in varying propor-
tions are being conducted by Dr.
W. J. Watt. The activity of the
Ag is studied in a solution of the
molten salts at different tempera-
tures and concentrations. The effects
of divalent CRO4 on the monovalent
Ag are to be correlated for applica-
tion to other similar reactions. Later
the solvent will be changed to
NaNO3. Dr. Watt has already done
work on such a system at Oak Ridge.
He is assisted by Jim Cone, a senior
pre-med.

Jim Hughes, a senior math major
and Phi Beta Kappa who will con-
tinue his studies at UNC, is writing

 

New Professors
(Continued from page 1)

In addition to serving as a physi-
cal education instructor at Washington
and Lee, Mr. Swan will coach fresh-
man football. He is married and the
father of a year-old daughter.

Mr. Zimic, 31, is a native of Yugo-
slavia, and studied there and in the
United States. He hold an M.A. de-
gree from the University of Miami,
and is currently teaching at Rollins
College. He speaks eight languages, in-
cluding Russian.

 

 

STATE

LEXINGTON, VA,

 

 

NOW SHOWING
Sat. 11 a.m.-1-3-5-7-9 p.m.

agRNONE'S FLIPPED 9

FLUBBER ~?

        
 

 

a research paper on “A Contrast be-
tween Intuition and Formalism in
Mathematics.” This will deal with
the universally important problem
of the proper approach to the study
of mathematics. He has done re-
search into the writing of Bertrand
Russell, Brouwer, and Cantor. Dr.
Charles Williams of the math de-
partment is serving as faculty ad-
visor to Jim.

Dr. Shillington and Dr. Whitaker
are aiding George M. Fozzard in the
synthesis of quinuclidine (C6 H13N).
George, a senior chemistry major, is
continuing work begun last year un-
der a Glenn Grant. This heterocyclic

amine cannot be purchased commer- |

cially. In fact, the only available

source materials on its production |

are from privates volumes of British
chemists of the mid-1920’s, and are
rather vague to say the least. George
will continue work on his project
this summer.

(Editors’ Note: The Tuesday
Edition will continue this report
on student research projects un-
der the Lee Research Grant pro-
gram. The program has attracted
attention to Washington and Lee
as a novel approach to under-
graduate research, and we feel
the other projects sponsored un-
der it will prove interesting.)

 

RES IPSA LOQUITUR

(Continued from page 2)

exempts me from the draft.

Speaking of girls in general, I
want to make public one more little
fact about our dear old campus be-
fore I close my career as a Friday
columnist. As you have probably
noticed, the good old McCormick
Library has been the brunt of several
good jokes this year. But a little
known function of the worthy staff
of that edifice has escaped my notice
until now.

Did you know that they have an
employee—a student wife, no less—
who does nothing on Tuesday, and
Fridays but empty pencil-sharpners
and clip articles mentioning the li-
brary? These clippings and shavings
go into bound volumes every year,
and are kept in a safe in the Rare
Books and Archives Room. So, for
you little worker with your scissirs,
wherever you are, this paragraph is
dedicated to you, Mr. Coleman, and
the Friends of the Library.

And with a flourish I close the
year. I'm sorry if I’ve enjoyed writ-
ing more than you’ve enjoyed read-
ing.

McHenry Lauds Lacrosse
Team’s Performance; Sees

Hopes For Brighter Future

(Continued from page 3)

beat the Generals 14-3.

But McHenry, whose teams have
been known to upset Virginia be-
fore, is pulling for an upset.

“Virginia plays Army next week.
We hope that they’re looking ahead
and not thinking too much about us.”

McHenry praised the work of his
two captains, Hunter Tracht and
John Dinkel,
college lacrosse careers against Vir-
ginia.

“They've been fine captains. John’s
been terriffic on defense, and Hunt-
er’s given everything in the field.”

“No coach is happy when his team
| loses three times as many games as
it wins,’ McHenry said. “But in-
| juries hurt us a lot. We’ve got some
good men coming back next year.
Things look a lot better.”

 

 

Grimley Deplores Proposal

Ending Conventional Dress
(Continued from page 2)

The best response came when we
asked him his opinion on the aboli-
tion of conventional dress.

“They'll do it over my dead body.”

Why so?

“Because this is a school of gentle-
men. Gentlemen wear their jackets
and ties. It’s worth the discomfiture

We mentioned that there are many
fine schools where students do not
wear coats and ties.

“T've seen them all” said Mr.
Grimley. “I’ve seen Princeton, Har-
vard, Yale, all the rest, and I say
NUTS to them all.”

“I sent my daughter to Smith, and
when I went down there to see
her, all I saw was a bunch of dirty
girls. There wasn’t a pretty one
in the bunch. I'll tell you, this
sloppy dressing reflects a person’s
background.”

“Maybe you should have sent her
to Randolph-Macon,” we said.

“That would have been better.”

Had we not been burdened with a
quiz next day,

stories about the university and we
had time to catch only a handful.

 

eeeeeoeoeoceeeeceeeseeeeeese
TEXACO
Super Service Station
Lexington, Virginia
Corner Main and Nelson

 

 

   

SUN.-MON.

yu. rn ff

 

      

 

 

eee

= R. L. Hess and Bro.
; JEWELERS

; Lexington, Virginia

: HO 3-2833

*
Weeder ere ole ohn oho oe ole ode ale vfe ae afe oeerfe steal ede adertoods.

usiness
usiness
IERER’S

PHARMACY

 

 

It's Good
To Do
with

 

 

 

 

THE DUTCH INN’

For Reservation Call
MRS. KATHERINE ADAMS
HO 3-3433

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

il din din tl Al A ln i A i i ln in i i

tint

 

 

 

 

 

 

Seodeoteobeoeoedeteoeeoteoteoe beet eoteeteeeoeee

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Ny : HICKMAN’S ESSO :
mG : Bak t
; k South Main Street : aker *
1 fi HO 3-2024 *
er | 1? Ford Sales :
qu? ) nt tt a tacttottl| z +
seecccccccocccoocooooece a :
*Dodge and Dodge Darts ;
ee ° and Lancer 3} BETTER DEALS
¢: : America’s First Fine 3
e e * 5
'¢. ° ° CLEARANCE :
vi % BOONOMY CAR 3 : of lot for 1961 Models ;
\ ° * ° * 7
a . : : rr NEW AND ;
fo, re ° — Co. ¢ : USED CARS :
ae Fi % ~~ % = e +
fet FLED MANY KEEN» TOMMY ° e % i , q
MucMURRAY-OLSON-WYNN-KIRK ]|$ Phone HObart 3-3146 3 —— :
te ae a oe eseescecececeseoscs eos  Pebbabedeedbee teed
(= y
Traditional
W&L BLAZER THE COLLEGE INN
With University Crest <
ax hina The Best Food in Town
The American and Italian
COLLEGE ee Catering to the Students, Faculty,
and Towns People
Student Charge Accounts
w OPEN SUNDAYS
elcomed
S a

which UVa. racked up last week,

who conclude their

 

the conversation |
could have gone on indefinitely. Mr. |
Grimley has a thousand and one}

 

 

 

 

 

 

U. S. Accused Of Colonialism

(Continued from page 2)
ists have created a society that is independent
of Russia and which appears to less impas-
sioned democrats morally no worse than the
capitalist societies of Franco’s Spain, Salazar’s
Portugal or Verwoerd’s South Africa. Few
Americans can conceive that a Laotian peasant
might genuinely prefer the Pathet Lao to
Prince Boun Oum, or that there is anything
except misery in the Soviet Union.

To this anti-Communist blindness which
seems to be almost universal in the United
States, the Democrats add a particular view
of foreign policy based on their own exper-
ience. It fell to a Democratic Administration
to lead the country against Hitler and to
suffer grievous disillusions in its dealings with
Stalin. The Democrats are still convinced that
they face (in Mr. Kennedy’s words) “‘a relent-
less struggle in every corner of the globe
that goes far beyond the clash of armies or
even nuclear armaments.”

Total war is ruled out by both sides, so that
“subversion, infiltration and a host of other
tactics steadily advance, picking off vulner-
able areas one by one in situations which do
not permit our own armed intervention.”
President Kennedy sometimes seems to believe
that destiny has chosen him to lead the forces
of freedom in a desperate attempt to stop
the rot by using the same methods, and that
anyone who will not back him is either “soft”
or an appeaser.

This view of the world is a dangerously
over-simplified one. Mr. Khrushchev makes no
secret of his conviction that Communism will
ultimately prevail and that he will always do
his best to help it. No one would deny that
Communist techniques are dangerous and
hard to counter. But Mr. Khrushchev also
knows that technique is not enough; that out-
side the areas where the Russian and Chinese

 

armies are dominant, Communism can succeed
only where the conditions favor it. The chief
of these conditions are well known to be pov-
erty, backwardness, feudalism and oppression;
but there are also external factors of great im-
portance.

In Eastern Europe, for instance, Com-
munism’s greatest ally is fear of Germany.
In the Middle East, Africa, Asia and Latin
America, it is anti-colonialism. By direct in-
tervention in would-be neutral parts of the
world, the West presses a still painful wound.
Admittedly, it takes strong nerves not to in-
tervene when a country is threatened by Com-
munist subversion, but it may be the right
course. If Britain had intervened in Iraq after
General Kassem’s revolution, Iraq would now
be Communist.

Until all colonialism has been ended and
forgotten, the Communists will have an unfair
advantage. In some of his speeches, President
Kennedy has revealed an understanding of
this and of the need to welcome and support
nationalist movements that wish to be neutral-
ist. One hopes that this is still the basis of his
policy. But it is impossible to reconcile this
with intervention in every little country that
seems to be flirting with Communism or with
his massive restatement of the Monroe Doc-
trine in Latin America.

It is only when the neutral nations are
convinced that the West is prepared to respect
their independence and leave them alone that
they will see the much greater faults of the So-
viet Union, which is bound by its own ideology
to deny freedom of choice to its own people
as well as to others. It would be a grotesque
and disabling consequence of an emotional
anti-Communism if the West, which ought to
be the pioneer of tolerance, came to appear
almost as intolerant and blinkered as those it
opposes.

You're needed... just as your father and grand-
father were. It’s an obligation that a lot of qualified
college men have to meet...that of serving your coun-
try, when and where you are needed.

And the Air Force needs college-trained men as
officers. This is caused by the rapidly expanding tech-
nology that goes with hypersonic air and space flight.
Your four years of college have equipped you to han-
dle complex jobs. You have the potential to profit
from advanced training...then put it to work.
There are several ways to become an officer.

First there is Air Force ROTC. Another program,
relatively new, is Officer Training School. Here the
Air Force commissions certain college graduates, both
men and women, after three months’ training, The
navigator training program enables you to win a
flying rating and a commission. And, of course, there’s
the Air Force Academy.

An Air Force officer’s starting salary averages out
to about what you could expect as a civilian. First
there’s your base pay. Then add on such things as
tax-free rations and quarters allowances, free medical
and dental care, retirement provision, perhaps flight
pay, and 30 days’ vacation per year. It comes to an
attractive figure. One thing more. As an officer, you
will become eligible for the Air Force Institute of
Technology. While on active duty many officers will
win graduate degrees at Air Force expense.

Why not contact your local Air Force Recruiter.
Or write to Officer Career Information, Dept.
SC15, Box 7608, Washington 4, D.C., if you
want further information about the navigator
training or Officer Training School programs.

U.S. Air Force

There’s a place for

professional achievement on the

Aerospace Team

a he ee lle t= - . ee he

 
 

‘mama ign

 

a ae

SPRING PRANK GETS STUDENTS WET

WE WANT A FIRE! We want a fire! Washington and Lee students shouted to the

 

Lexington Fire Department Sunday night. The Students, after having their spirits
doused by fire hoses, turned their attention to the bus station.

TUESDAY
Editon

Volume LXI

—Photo by Dennis Brack

.

Students ‘Let Off Steam’
In Sunday Demonstration

By JOHN ALLGOOD
Assistant Managing Editor

Every year about this time the men of many large
institutions such as Wisconsin, Clemson, Georgia Tech
and Texas A&M let off steam by staging “panty” raids.

There are no girls’ schools near

for a “panty” raid therefore, W&L’s men had to look
for another form of recreation in which they could let

off steam.

Sunday night an opportunity presented itself.
And from 400-6009 W&L “gentlemen” demon-

strated (or as some witnesses said

small fire behind the Greyhound bus station.

The demonstrators (or “rioters’’)
right, but it was a rather wet steam.

As the Lexington Volunteer Fire Department turned
_ three one and a half inch hoses on
' the crowd yelled:
“We want a fire! We want a fire!”
Then came the battle royal. The firemen, unable to
get close enough to the fire, turned the hoses on
the crowd in order to move it back. The crowd broke

and ran. But after a few minutes it

Again the firemen turned the hoses on the crowd.
Again the crowd ran. Again it surged back.

This hosing, running, and surging back con-
tinued about ten minutes until the police arrived.

Bob Murray, the University proctor, explained why
the firemen hosed the crowd:

“The firemen turned the hoses on the crowd be-

enough to W&L
prankish mood.

cause it was too close to the fire and the firemen could
not get through.”

The police succeeded in moving the crowd back to
the bus station. But this did not end the students’

At 11:30 the north-bound Greyhound pulled into

the bus station and the crowd started trouble anew.

“rioted”) at a

let off steam all Around 12:00

First some of the students climbed on top of
each other in order to talk to some girls on the
bus. Then crowd started to rock the bus. Fortu-
nately, nothing happened.

University proctor Murray arrived

and the crowd dispersed.

the small blaze,

No damage had been done. The students had just let
off steam and annoyed a few people.

The fire that caused the demonstration started about
11:00 Sunday night in the ashes of a warehouse, which

surged back.

burned to the ground early Sunday morning. The fire
department attributed the rekindling of the fire to
the large amount of sawdust that had been in and
around the building.

Monday morning the University administration in
an unofficial release said it was sorry that the incident

took place. It also said that Kent Frazier, student body

Che KRing-tum Phi

Washington and Lee Semi-Weekly Newspaper

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA, MAY 16, 1961

president, would apologize to the fire department on
behalf of the students.

TUESDAY
Edition

Number 57

Jimmy Reed Signed To Play At Finals Concert

Roberts Named To Publications
Board Executive Committee Post

 

BILL ROBERTS
New EC Representative

 

Glee Club Elects Officers

At their final meeting of the year,
the members of the Washington and
Lee Glee Club elected officers for
the coming school year.

Jim Applebaum, rising PEP sen-
ior, became the group’s new pres-
ident; Dunlop Ecker, rising senior
Kappa Sig, now holds the office of
Club business manager; Sam Chan-
nell, rising junior Phi Kap becomes
the new secretary; and Dave Spen-
cer, Phi Kap junior will assume the
duties of treasurer. Also elected

(Continued on page 4)

William R. Roberts was
elected to serve as the repre-
sentative to the Executive
Committee from the Publica-

‘tions Board at a meeting held

|

Monday afternoon.
Roberts, the editor-elect of

ithe Friday edition of the Ring-

 

tum Phi, succeeds Nathan
Simpson, a KA senior, as the
Publications Board EC mem-

ber.

A rising SAE senior from Wil-
liamsburg, Va., he was managing
editor of this year’s Tuesday edi-
tion.

An Honor Roll and Dean’s List
student, Roberts has lettered for
three years on the football squad.
He is a member of Phi Eta Sigma,
freshman honorary society.

Ames Is President

Elected to succeed Chris Harrell
as president of the Publications
Board was Ned Ames, a rising fresh-
man law student from Accomac, Va.
Ames is a member of Delta Tau
Delta, and was secretary of the Pub-
lications Board this year.

Roy Goodwin, a rising KA senior
from Augusta, Ga., was elected vice-
president of the Board. Goodwin is
the editor-elect of the Tuesday edi-
tion, and is president of his frater-
nity. He succeeds Ed Ladd, a Beta
from Mobile, Ala.

Elected secretary of the Board
was Joe Goldstein, a rising ZBT

 

SCHOOL’S POSITION ON DEMONSTRATION

The disturbance Sunday night calls for some comment. It is recog-
nized that such an outburst on a college campus at this time of the
year is certainly no new development. It is further noteworthy that
to the credit of Washington and Lee students, general reports indi-
cated no malicious misconduct, no damage to person or property and
no premeditated, planned misbehavior.

Two factors, however, clearly present such an episode as unde-
sirable. Regardless of Washington and Lee’s excellent reputation in
the eyes of the outside public, the news of such an outburst—fre-
quently exaggerated—is the poorest kind of public relations for the
students who are Washington and Lee.

An even more undesirable factor is that involving town relation-
ships, particularly with the Lexington Fire Department. This group
is one of ancient and honorable history, It is made up of men who
unhesitatingly give their time and service, at any hour of the day
or night, without any compensation other than the realization of valu-
able contribution rendered to their community. Many persons con-
nected with Washington and Lee recall instances where property of
the University and of a number of fraternities has been saved by the
group and at least one Washington and Lee student of recent years
owes his life to the members of this department. In the carrying
out of their duties they are deserving of the full support and co-
operation of every member of the Student Body and the whole

community of Lexington.

FRANK J. GILLIAM
Dean of Students

 

senior from Kingstree, S. C. Gold}

stein is the editor of the Calyx for
next year, and was named as the
only junior member of Phi Beta
Kappa this year.

Goldstein succeeds Ned Ames.

Dr. Cook To Return
In other business, the Publications
Board elected to seat Dr. Jay Cook
of the W&L Commerce School as
the representative from the alumni.

Dr. Cook served in this capacity last |.

year and was asked to return to
this post for next year’s term.
Outgoing president Chris Harrell,

a KA senior law student from Em-| |

poria, Va., stated at the close of
the meeting that he appreciated the
support that the Publications Board

had given him as president during] |

this year.

Finals Week Is
A Busy One For

Seniors, Parents

By STEVE GUILD
Executive News Editor

The 212th commencement exer-
cises of Washington and Lee will be
held on Friday, June 2 at 11 a.m. on
the lawn in front of the President’s
Home. Preceding this concluding
event, finals week will be a full
schedule of activities for graduating

 

 

FINALS 1961

Tuesday, May 30
9:00 p.m.—Finals Dance—Gymnas-
ium.
Wednesday, May 31
3:00-5:00 p.m. — Concert — Wilson
Field.
Thursday, June 1
10:30 am.—Academie Procession
Forms—Washington Hall.
11:30 a.m.—Baccalaureate Service—
Lee Chapel.
12:30 am. — Alumni Luncheon—
Washington Hall Lawn
2:00 p.m.—Alumni Association Meet-
ing—Lee Chapel.
9:00 p.m—President’s Reception—
President’s Home.
Friday, June 2
9:00 a.m. — Commissioning Cere-
mony—Lee Chapel.
11:00 a.m. Commencement Exercis-
es—President’s Lawn.

 

seniors, their parents and the many
alumni that will be here.
Finals 1961 will begin with the
(Continued on page 4)

|

|

| and Mongolian Minks.

 

|

  
 

JIMMY REED

 

Jim Gwinn Receives IFC Grant;

Ogilvie Named Top Freshman

By T. D. EDWARDS
Associate Editor
The W&L IFC named Jim Gwinn, a rising SAE senior, as the FC
Senior Scholarship recipient for next year at its meeting last night.
Buck Ogilvie, a rising Beta sophomore, was named as the IFC Outstand-

ing Freshman at the meeting also. *®

Both awards, IFC President Bob |
Doenges said, are based on the can- |
didates student body interest and
leadership qualities. The scholarship
award leans heavily on the financial
need of the candidates, he said.
This award amounts to $125 per year.

Gwinn is from Huntington, W. Va.
He is president of the SAE house
and has maintained a 1.8 average. A
member of Scabbard and Blade, na-
tional military fraternity, Gwinn is
a member of Sigma, White Friars,

Ogilvie Is EC Member

Named as the IFC Outstanding
Freshman was Buck Ogilvie. He is a
rising Beta sophomore from Shreve-
port, La. Last week he won a post
on the Executive Committee as
sophomore representative for next
year. Ogilvie is an Honor Roll stu-
dent and was a member of Phi Eta
Sigma, freshman honorary society. A
member of the football and lacrosse
teams, he was recently named the
outstanding MS 1 cadet in ROTC.
He is the organizations editor of the |
Calyx.

Holder of the Senior IFC Scholar- |
ship this year was Bill McWilliams, a
Phi Delt. R. T. Edwards, a Phi Kap,
was last year’s Outstanding Fresh- |
man.

In other business, the IFC passed |

 

| Dean’s

 

a motion by a vote of 11-7 to feed

|/another foreign exchange student

next year in the fraternity houses.

The number of foreign students
eating in the houses this year was
three, and the number will be the
same again next year.

 

Military Group Elects Men
To Office For Next Year

Ned Hobbs, Fred Nelson, George
Honts, and Allyn Kantor, all rising
seniors, were elected to office in
Scabbard and Blade on Wednesday
to be Captain, First Lieutenant,
Second Lieutenant, and Sergeant
respectively for next year.

Ned Hobbs, a Delt is on the Dean’s
List, the Assimilation Committee,
a tri-captain of football, captain of
baseball, and an officer of the Var-
sity Club.

Fred Nelson, a Sigma Nu, is on
the Dean’s List, varsity track, and
was a Freshman Camp Counselor.

George Honts, a Delt, is on the
List, vice-president of his
fraternity, and president of Pi Sigma
Alpha.

Allyn Kantor, a ZBT, is on the
Dean’s List, Honor Roll, a member
of Phi Eta Sigma, and a member
of the Commerce fraternity.

 

Concert To Be
At Wilson Field

By ANDY NEA
Managing Editor

Jimmy Reed, nationally
known rock ‘n’ roll recording

_ star, has been signed to play
at the Finals Dance Concert.

Reed’s appearance will mark
the first time that a rock ‘n’

roll singer has appeared at a
university concert. The con-

cert, scheduled for 3-5 p.m.
on Wednesday, May 31, will
be held on the grass at Wil-

- son Field.

Jimmy Reed ranks among all-time
recording greats in folk, rhythm and
blues, and jazz field. He is recog-
nized as one of the nation’s top
guitarists and singers. Reed has
consistently hit the “Top Twenty
Nationally” charts with each of his
recordings. Today he known as “the
man with the golden touch” by his

*¥ fellow artists.

He began his career in 1960 with
Vee Jay records and has been
producing hits for them ever since.
During his career, he has appeared
throughout the country at such
places as the Apollo Theatre in
New York, 502 Ballroom in Los
Angeles, and the Howard Theatre
in Washington. He has just com-
pleted a tour of the U.S. and Cana-
da with Lavern Baker, Clyde Mc-
Phatter and Lloyd Price.

The uninhibited, swinging rhythm
of Jimmy Reed has produced such
hits as Found Love, You Got Me
Dizzy, Going to Virginia, and Ca-
ress Me.

Commenting on the appearance
of Jimmy Reed, Dance Board Pres-
ident Jimmy Vann said, “Contract-
ing a Rock ’n’ Roll singer is an at-
tempt to bring the concerts more in
line with what many students seem
to desire. This type of entertain-
ment represents a definite change in
Dance Board policy. As is always
the case when changes are made,
it is necessary to proceed with max-
imum caution and good behavior.
The informality of the concert
coupled with the informality of the
entertainment could very easily
lend itself to misbehavior and dis-
order.”

Conventional dress will not be
required at this afternoon concert.
The Dance Board has stated that
it will not admit any couple not
dressed in a respectable manner.
Conventional bermudas and sport
shirts will be considered proper
attire.

There will be no drinking of any
kind at the open-air concert, and
no cups will be allowed. Violators
of this rule will be subject to ad-
ministrative action.
Page 2

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

Che Ring-tum Phi

Tuesday

Edition

Member of Virginia Intercollegiate Press Association

 

Finals Concert

Is The Factor

In Seeing If W&L Accepts Change

The appearance of today’s issue of the Ring-tum Phi brings
another year of our regular publishing to a close. The only
other issue of this paper to appear this year will be published
on May 30. That newspaper will be the Finals Edition.

Included in its pages will be photographs and comments
from this past school term. Each picture and comment will rep-
resent one of the many phases of W&L this year.

What kind of year has this been for Washington and Lee?

Physically, the University saw some changes take place with
work beginning on a number of long awaited projects.

In other areas the 1960-61 term also saw a great deal of
change. Student interest in such organizations as the Dance
Board and the Executive Committee soared to new heights,
and a greater interest was displayed in campus politics. Cam-
paign promises were made and platforms were aired with great
articulation and comment from all sources.

All these changes bring to mind one central question—
can W&L accept these changes?

A test of this student body’s ability to accept or reject
change will come in a few weeks when Finals Dances open.

The concert for this dance set will be held outside—an
event which hasn’t happened here in a number of years. The
administration has given the Dance Board permission to hold

the concert on Wilson Field.

With the green light given to the Dance Board to hold the
concert outside, the Administration has placed this stipulation:
“There will be no drinking of any kind at the open-air concert,
and no cups will be allowed. Violators of this rule will be sub-

ject to administrative action.”

This concert represents a ‘“‘test case’ fo rour student body
as far as any dance revision is concerned. If this concert is a
success and if no student is asked to appear before the Admin-
istration for violating this rule, we will then know that W&L

can accept change.

All future plans to strengthen and to improve the dance
program, therefore, hinge on this concert. If students obey
the rules during this event, then progress will be in order for
future dance revision. If the student body proves to the Admin-
istration that we, as students, are able to accept responsibility,
then we can expect to get a better dance program.

Perhaps, with a little luck, dances might be moved to the
Commons, and possibly drinking might be allowed in the near
future at dances. If, however, any of these possibilities are
ever to become realities, we must first prove that we can accept
the responsibilities of a better dance program.

The Dance Board has worked long and hard on better
dances for the student body. The next step now lies in the
student body’s conduct at the Finals concert.. Any possible
revision now depends on each and every student who attends

that concert.

—R. R. G.

 

PRESTON HOUSE

 

In Fifty Years House
Has Had Many Uses

By TOM LYBASS
Associate Editor

The long and variable existence of
Preston House came to an end last
week when its last remaining foun-
dation stones were removed by W.
W. Coffey and Son Construction
Company of Lexington, Virginia.

Used for many purposes, Preston
House had many different inhabi-
tants. At first, it was the residence
of Dr. and Mrs. F. Cleveland Davis,
who built it in 1910 when Washing-
ton Street was only a dirt road. Re-
maining at Preston House only a
few years, Dr. and Mrs. Davis later
moved to another part of the town.
Last week, Mrs. Davis, the last
living original owner of Preston
House, died in Jackson Memorial
Hospital.

After Dr. Davis moved, the
house was occupied by Dr.
Benjamin Easter, head of the W&L
French Department. During his
stay in the house, Dr. Easter con-
tinued the practice started by Dr.
Davis of renting attic rooms to
W&L students.

The house next changed hands
in the 1930’s when Dr. Easter sold
Preston House to Alpha Chi Rho
Fraternity, which in turn sold it to
W&L after several years of use.

For twenty years, Washington and
Lee University found a variety of
uses for Preston House. In the days
of subsidized football it was used
to house athletes. Afterwards, the
first floor of the house was con-
verted into the university medical
office and the second floor into an
apartment for people connected with
the university.

Master Sergeant Ralph Duffie,
an ROTC instructor, was the last

 

person to occupy the apartment-
ment before it was converted for
use into a temporary dormitory
for freshmen in 1959.

Few alterations were needed to
change Preston House into a dor-

mitory. Only several petitions and| ’

two showers were added. While its
familiar gray exterior remained the
same during the period of occu-
pancy by freshman, Preston House
underwent numerous changes in-
side. Most of these alterations were
made by its student occupants.

“In the last two years Preston
House has received more damage
than any other building owned by
the university,” reported Superin-
tendent of Grounds and Buildings,
Douglas Brady. Broken windows and
torn partitions were most often in
need of repair.

An inspection of Preston House
after evacuation in February
showed that in comparison with
another house owned by the uni-
versity as a freshman dormitory
a few years earlier and torn down
to make room for Davis Dormi-
tory, Preston House had sustained
little damage.

“The former temporary freshman
dormitory, also known as Preston
House, literally was taken apart
by its inhabitants during Finals
Weekend when it was announced
that the house was to be destroyed.
The students at the last Preston
House did very little damage,”
Brady said.

A much discussed question about!
Preston House was the origin of its
name. Actually, the name, Preston
House, was a misnomer. Originally,

(Continued on page 4)

 

‘End Party Politics In IFC, Let Group Do
Hang Itself’ --Honts

Something

By GEORGE HONTS
Tuesday Columnist

Monday, May 8—Tonight I wit-
nessed one of the most pathetic spec-
tacles on campus
—the IFC elec-
tions. The voting
went, as might be
* expected, right
2 down party lines.
It’s not that
Bob Doenges, Cy
Painter and the
other men elected
aren't qualified or
capable. They are,
and they could do
a good job if the
IFC had something to do. It’s not
the men elected which is disturbing,
but the method of election.

The IFC has been called the in-
ert-fraternity council. No wonder.
How can men who represent only
55 per cent of that body expect
to get 100 per cent co-operation
from it? It’s not fair to the of-
ficers, much less to the IFC as a
whole. But you 55 per cent who
hold the reins need not feel alone
in any criticism. If the Indepen-
dents were in the saddle the sit-
uation would be the same. That
wouldn’t help things a bit.

   

Honts

Maybe we ought to have two IFC’s.
One for the University Party and
one for the Independent Party.
Something might be accomplished

Useful Or

What’s the solution to the IFC
problem? A little unselfishness on
both sides and a fulfillment of cer-
tain needs. First, demand of and get
from Doegnes aggressive IFC lead-
ership. Second, keep the party poli-
tics out of the IFC. One step in
that direction would be an amend-
ment of the IFC constitution which
would make election of IFC officers
subject to a two-thirds vote. Third,
distribute IFC responsibility equally
among the houses according to their
capabilities and interest.. Fourth,
give the IFC enough rope to do
something or hang itself. As things
are now, the IFC is the black sheep
of the fraternity system. Fifth, if
Uncas McThenia is willing, let the

 

IFC be used as a partial base on
which to build the expected broad-
ened activity in student governmen-
tal affairs.

An unused limb will wither and
die. We'd better start giving the IFC
some exercise.

* * *

This is a good chance to wel-
come the prodigal-son columnist
to this sheet. I can’t see how
Thorns could have missed his
deadline last week.

* * *

Lester Flatt and Earl Scruggs will
be in town May 29. If you like hill-
billy music—here’s your chance.

 

Jerry Hyatt says he’s looking for
someone to go over to VMI with
him to hear ’em yodel.

* * *

Over the beer cans I hear rumors
that Doc is thinking of retiring from
the Corner Grill business.

* * *

That friend of mine didn’t mind
being kept awake in classes by the
construction workers, but, he says,
the dynamite they’ve been using sure
is hell on hangovers.

Who, for the love of Mike is Pat
Dorn?

 

RES IPSA LOQUITUR

 

Craven Plans To Start Supporter Fund Drive
For Davidson College’s Poor David N. Dakin

By THORNS CRAVEN
Tuesday Columnist

Some of the closer reading readers among you
might possibly have noticed a little plea from David-

in our HONOR SYSTEM.

At Davidson I think you might have found what
we are looking for. You see, one of the main points
has been that honor cannot be codified, for the letter
killeth the spirit (or something like that that some-

 

then—if the parties could stick to-|

gether. iF

Roy Goodwin gave the nominating |

speech for the president. It was!
second in persuasiveness only to his
“Boll Weevil” speech of a year ago;
but it was a wasted effort, except for
one phase. He spoke at length of
the general decline of the Greek-
letter fraternities in America and
on the W&L campus. He said
Doenges was the type of individual
who could revive the fraternity
spirit. Well, Doenges might be, but
what chance will he have? A house
divided will fall: the IFC is split ten
to eight. If the Greeks can’t stand
together for themselves, no one will
do it for them.

What the IFC needs—perhaps the
whole campus needs—is a little less
party unity and a little more student
unity.

 

Brand Round-up Winners

The 1961 Philip Morris Brand
Round-up prizes were won by
Thorns Craven and by the Kappa
Sigma House. Entries totaling 24,638
were turned in to Campus Repre-
sentative Billy Martin on Wednes-
day afternoon last week.

The Kappa Sigmas won the Decca
console stereo set with their entry
worth 17,302 points.

 

 

son tucked into a corner of the
sports page of the Friday edition.
I have spent a devoted year on the
Friday paper, and have always
considered this estimable journal
to be far-sighted and quick to pick
up the advantage when the oppor-
tunity arises. Now as a former
Friday columnist writing on Tues-
days, however, I think it only
fair to comment on Friday’s hand-
ling of the Davidson strap situation.
By commenting I feel I will be do-
ing two things—biting the hand

one said once, and I even think it was written down
somewhere). But the David N. Nakin case shows
that with proper handling the letter can just strap up
the spirit a little, and not kill it at all. Hence, I can-
not be indignent. I can only be proud that a school
like Davidson can see through the superficialities of
student life and can find out the rights and wrongs
existing on the campus. And then, after finding out
where some crime has been committed against the
honor of the college, an EC can act swiftly to mete
out punishment which is commensurate with the
foul deed.

Coming from North Carolina myself I can

that fed me while doing my little bit for the poor
guy who is still locked in his room at Davidson with
nothing but a box of soda crackers and about thir-

teen thousand used straps.

When the Ring-tum Phi received the press re-
lease from Davidson concerning the above-mentioned
convict, there was a note attached for me, from a
friend of mine at Davidson. He said, very succinctly,
“This crass injustice perhaps deserves some comment
(preferably indignent) in your column.” So the re-
mainder of this column will be in the form of an
open letter to my friend, and to Davidson.

Dear B. (that’s my friend’s name, and no-
body knows what it stands for).

In response to your note of last week I certainly
agree with you that the David N.
situation which needs comment more than just per-
haps. And so I am going to feel free to comment at
length, but unfortunately I am limited. So perhaps
the last three or four pages of this letter will have to
come to you under separate cover. At any rate,

here are my comments:

In your note you said that you would prefer indig-
nent comments. While I sympathize with your po-
sition, I feel that it is impossible for me to be indig-
nent. If you have read the Ring-tum Phi over the

only feel proud that honor is so revived in my
home state that a common thief, a man who will
be a blemish on the good name of Davidson, is

confined to the environs of your lovely town,

and not allowed to roam about society, per-
petrating more foul deeds.

I am also proud that your athletic department is
so conscientious that it keeps up with equipment so
well. I almost regret not going to Davidson instead
of W&lL. What a fine atmosphere must exist in a
place where the gym and the EC work hand-in-hand
to rid the college of any evil influences.

I’m afraid, B.,

that my feelings have run away with

me, and that I have almost abstracted the whole

case too much.

Dakin case is a

course of the past several months, you might have
noticed a vocal minority pushing for some changes

But I will not forget the concretes

of the situation. Conscious of the fact that your
exams must be starting soon, I realize what a sense
of urgency must be felt at Davidson when the short-
age of straps was discovered. I can’t imagine how
horrible it must be.

So, in response to your request, I’m trying to get
up a fund to help send all you needy students sev-
eral extra straps per man. For the more affluent
among you, I will try to send madras ones. I hope
we can help before it’s to late, and David N. Dakin
is released to begin his rampage once more.

yours truly,
Thorns

Students’ Revolt For Reform In Recent Campus Elections
Inherited From Founders Of Country

Shows Action

By DAVE KNIGHT
Tuesday Columnist

As the school year draws to a
close, it is only natural that a cer-
tain amount of
reminiscing will
occur concerning
the successes or
failures of the
present student
body. Seniors, in
particular, must
either consciously
or subconsciously
ask themselves
whether or not
the University has
benefited from
their presence. There are those who
have contributed through direct
participation in student affairs and,
therefore, know the answer. The
rest, on the other hand, may review
their activities on campus with a
sense of regret in relation to ac-
complishment for themselves and
Washington and Lee.

But there has been one event for
which every member of the student
body can take credit in terms of con-
tributing sufficiently to the heritage
for us by our renowned founders of
both the American Revolution and
the Civil War era. The event was
the campus elections.

 

Knight

The contribution was the mature
attitude adopted by the students
when faced with a possible cha-
otic situation. This siutation was
the result of a plea for radical
changes in basic structures of our
student government.

The term “radical” is not to be
interpreted as having a detrimental
connotation for a great deal of credit
must go to those who stirred the
winds of liberalism in advocating the

 

afore-mentioned changes. But, at the
same time, thanks must be extended
to those students who, through their
role as campus leaders, managed to
apply or mold this liberalism into a

constructive force.

One only has to survey the world
scene to find numerous examples of
reform through revolt. A better il-
lustration of chaos resulting from

Dr. Keith Shillington To Receive
$9,400 For Chemistry Research

Dr. J. Keith Shillington, assistant professor of chemistry at
Washington and Lee, has been awarded a National Science
Foundation grant of $9,400 for a two-year research project.

Working with Dr. Shillington this®™

summer will be Henry Hawthorne,
Phi Delt junior from Bluefield, W.
Va., and George B. Fozzard, senior
from Jacksonville, Fla. For Haw-
thorne, the work will be a continu-
ation of work begun under the
Robert E. Lee Research Fund. Foz-
zard was also a Robert E. Lee re-
search scholar on another project.
During the present semester, Bruce
Houghton, a Pi Phi freshman from

Princeton, N. J., has helped them in)
preliminary work. He will work!

here this summer.

The research will deal with re-
agents for the resolution of racem-
ic carbonyl compounds.

The current project is a continu-
ation of work done on a similar
grant for July, 1955-July 1957. “With
the earlier grant we developed the
process,” Dr. Shillington said, “now
we are trying to broaden it and ex-
tend its versatility.”

 

SIGMA CHI PICKS SLATE

Sigma Chi’s officers for the com-
ing school year will be Jon Monta-
gue, president; Bob Doenges, vice
president; Robbin Dawson, secretary.

 

 

Letter to the Editor

Lab Does Not

‘Torture’ Mice

Editor Tuesday Edition
Dear Sir:

The students and members of the
faculty in the Department of Psy-
chology appreciate the interest and
the fine coverage given the activities
of the department by the Ring-tum
Phi during the current school year.
However, since a portion of the cap-
tion on page 4 of the May 12, 1961
issue may be misunderstood by some,
we would suggest that the word
“torture” is hardly the correct word
to describe the experience resulting
from the occasional, necessary use in
experimental work of stimuli which
are annoying but not painful. Be
assured no subject, whether animal
or human will ever be “tortured”
in our laboratory.

WILLIAM H. HINTON
Head—Psychology
Department

 

new policies is the street barrier, fire
hose type riot generally associated
with the Ivy League. In using a
more familiar analogy an atmos-
phere or attitude responsive to riots
might have turned the assembly in
which candidates for campus offices
were allowed to express their views
into something resembling the Mock
Convention of last year.

Instead of this, however, the move-
ment towards reform had a sober-
ing effect on the students who re-
sponded in a manner characteristic
of our heritage. Therefore, I extend
my congratulations to those who ad-
vocated changes, those who were in
power to enact these changes, and
the student body for their contribu-
tions towards a job well done.

Che Bing-tum Phi

Tuesday Edition

The Ring-tum Phi is published Tues-
day and Friday during the college year.
It is printed by the Journalism Labor-
versity. the ‘mailing ations te Wes
versity. e mailing address is
899, Lexington, Va, . '

Entered ag second class matter Sep-
tember 20, 1946 at the Post Office, Lex-
ington, Va., under the act of March

National Advertising Representative:
The National Advertisers ervice, Inc.
420 Madison Ave., New York, N.Y.

 

Be sisi Rosewell Page, III
Editor-elect........ Robert Roy Goodwin, II
Business Manager.............. Huntley Biggs

Editorial Board
Managing Wditor........................ And

Asst. Managing Editor........
Fixecutive £ & 0 John Allgood

 

News Editor ulian Markham
Sports Editor «Peter Alford
Asst. Sports Editors............... Ken Greer,
Harry Me
Associate Editors... Tom "senden,

C. C. Flippen, Tom Lybass,

Tom Edwards, Andy Hyde,

Phil Farnsworth
2 eS eee Dick Heard
PHOCOSTADNE? 0... cssizcsosevssseneoresens Bill Bowen
Colin ISUE......600.0:0--- Thorns Craven, Dave

Knight, Robert C. Ketcham,
George Honts

 
THE RING-TUM PHI

%

Page 3

 

Carpenter Mows Down Tigers As Baseball Team Wins Last One

Roy Carpenter closed out his col-
lege pitching career by leading the
Generals to a 4-2 victory over
the Hampden-Sydney Tigers.

Carpenter, who pitched four hit
ball Saturday, finished the season
with a 5-2 record, as the Generals
went unbeaten on their home dia-
mond.

The W&L team took an early lead
when in the first inning Buck Rose
got on first base by swinging at a
two-strike pitch that sailed a foot

 

over the catcher’s head. Chuck Lane
put down a bunt that Tiger pitcher
Milliron threw into center field in an
attempt to get Rose. Ned Hobbs
struck out but Bobby Williams lash-
ed a double to right to score Rose
and Lane.

Chuck Lane Scores

W&L picked up another run in
the third when Lane reached first
on a throwing error by the pitcher,
and continued to second when the

 

ball rolled under the stands. Hobbs’
sacrifice moved him to third, and
Williams batted in his third run of
the game by sacrificing Lane home.

The last W&L run came in the
sixth when Robin Wood led off with
a single, was sacrificed to second
by Gilmore, took third on Martin’s
infield out, and scored on a wild
pitch.

H-S Gets Two

The win for the Generals was

the eighth of the year, and brought

 

Carpenter, Fauber, Mauzy, Parker, Valentiner

Win Awards At Eighth Annual Sports Barbecue

The 8th Annual Athletic Awards

Mr. Smith, director of athletics at

Barbecue was held at Capt. Dick} Washington and Lee from 1921 until
Smith’s farm outside of Lexington] his retirement in 1955, played host

last evening.

to all freshman and varsity athletes.

 

Lacrosse Team Bows To Virginia
12-6 In Last Contest Of Season

Washington
team lost its final game of the sea-
son last Saturday, bowing to power-
ful UVa. by a 12-6 score.

It was the fourth straight loss
for the Generals, and gave them a
final record of three wins against
eight defeats.

Wahoos Score

The Wahoos scored three goals in
each of the first two quarters, and
added four in the third period to
lead 10-1 going into the final twelve
minutes. Then the Generals came
roaring back to make it 12-6 on
goals by Jim Powers, Ray Gordon,
and Hunter Tracht. The goal for
Tracht was his second of the con-
test.

Powers, Tracht, and Gordon
each scored two goals. UVa.’s
Henry Peterson was high scorer for
the contest with five.

W&L goalie Herb Tinley had
13 saves, while Pete Noonan had
three .

Mitchell, Wheeler, Captains

Immediately following the game

NOTICE
There will be a meeting of all
men interested in going out for
soccer next fall, including all re-
turning team members, Wednes-
day, May 17, at 7:30 p.m. in the
Gym.

 

 

Waggy’s Jewelers
35 S. Main Street
Phone HO 3-4121

 

i i i i i

THE HOME OF QUALITY

 

 

and Lee’s lacrosse; two defensemen, Bart Mitchell and

Bill Wheeler, were chosen co-cap-
tains for next year.

Coach Bob McHenry said that he
was very pleased with the Generals’
effort against such strong opposition,
and that he thought this was one of
the two best games that the stick-
men played this year. “It was,” he
said, “our best combined effort of
the year.” He went on to add that
he thought the return of Ray Gor-
don to the lineup after a month’s
absence due to injury helped the
W&L cause, and that Tracht and
Powers both played their best games
of the season. McHenry also cited
Charlie Gummey’s play at midfield.

UVa. 12

W&L scoring—Gordon 2, Powers
2, Tracht 2.

UVa. scoring—Peterson 5, Sykes 2,
McGill, Offutt, Spillman, Biddinger,
Levasseur.

Assists—W&L none. UVa.—Peter-
son, Sazzington, Spillman, Levas-
seur 2, Storkerson.

 

President Fred C. Cole pre-
sented the special awards to out-
standing W&L men who distin-
guished themselves in their par-
ticular sport.

The awards went to Roy Carpen-
ter (baseball), Bip Fauber (basket-
ball), J. Merchant (cross-country),
Terry Fohs, (football, tackling and
passing defense), Courtney Mauzy
(football, blocking), Doug Martin
(football, Homecomings Award),
Tommy Goodwin (football, roughest
and toughest), H. F. Day (improve-
ment), Jack Vardaman (golf), John
Dinkle (lacrosse), Bill Wheeler, (la-
crosse, team spirit), Dave Auld
(rifle), Steve Hawkins (soccer),
Elliott Maynard (swimming), Clark
Valentiner (tennis), Jim Hickey
(track, Robin Kell (track, most im-
proved), Sandy Mersereau (wrest-
ling), Herb Smith (wrestling, fresh-
man).

Sackett and Parker

Henry Sackett was selected the
best freshman athlete and Jim Park-
er was honored as the best senior
athlete who has the best over-all
performance and proficiency during
his college career.

Mauzy Honored

Courtney Mauzy was presented
with another award, the Wink Glas-
gow Award, given to the senior who
has demonstrated the highest quali-
ties of the W&L spirit.

The PiKA’s were honored as In-
tramural champions while the Delts

(Continued on page 4)

 

Enter the ‘Vaseline’ Hair Tonic “Flip Talk” contest. Win a

DIXON’S

ESSO SERVICE CENTER
ROUTE 60 EAST IN LEXINGTON
Across from the White Top Resturant
HO 3-4214
Wash, Grease, Lube, Road Service

Charge Accounts Welcome

SOSSSSSSSSHSSSSESSSHSSSSSSHOSHSHSSSSSSHVSSOCOHOSESESCOE

Vaseline

(

the team’s final record to 8-4. It
marks the first time in three years
that Coach Lyles’ diamondmen
have had a winning season and
only the third time since 1952.
Leftfielder Bobby Williams was the
big gun on the attack for W&L with
three runs batted in. Williams paced
the team all season finishing with a

.307 average. He also led in the RBI
department with 12.

Defensive star of the day was
Buck Rose who raced deep into the
rightfield corner to pull down a

| drive by Hampden-Sydney’s Larry

Hammer in the ninth inning.
Ned Hobbs was re-elected captain
and will lead the Generals in their

 

McHenry To Coach South
In All-Star Lacrosse Game

Robert McHenry, head lacrosse coach at W&L, was named
today as head coach of the South team for this year’s North-

South game.

He will oppose his brother Bill,*

who is head mentor at Williams.

The game, to be played on Sat-
urday, June 10, at the Naval Aca-
demy in Annapolis, Md., annually
pits 25 players from Northern col-
leges against 21 of the South’s best
lacrosse players.

W&L this year will be represent-
ed by John Dinkel, senior defense-
man and co-captain.

McHenry, speaking of the fact that
his brother will oppose him as head
coach of the North squad, said, “I’d
like to beat him. He’s the one that
ate all the vitamin pills.” Bill Mc-
Henry captained the last subsidized
football team at W&L, and was
All-Southern Conference and Hon-
orable Mention All-American at
center for the Generals.

Coach McHenry will be able to

pick players from five of the
top eight lacrosse teams in the

 

TOLLEY’S PHARMACY
Prescriptions Filled
Immediately
PURCHASE DRUGS
HO 3-2211

 

 

 

 

nation. He has already sent out
invitations to the players, but
hasn’t received any replies yet.

“If there’s any weakness in our
team,” he said, “it will be at mid-
field. I think we'll make it a real
good game.”

As for the North squad, McHenry
said, “My brother’s crying. No mat-
ter what he has, he’s always crying.
But he’ll come up with a good club.”

McHenry’s list of possible players
for the dream game includes four
second-team All-Americans from
last year, two defensemen, one mid-
fielder, and an attackman.

1961-62 campaign. Roy Carpenter
will be missing from the Generals
lineup, but all others from this year’s
squad will be returning.

 

I-M Standings

Final standings from the Of-
fice of Intramurals show that Pi
Kappa Alpha has won the Intra-
mural trophy for the year. Phi Psi
came in second, with Sigma Nu
and Phi Delt close behind.

   
  
  

PE iciiinineannae 1043 1/2
PPE ichisnscciemacao 1030
BT GE iabeissseccrsccrvecscsnns 995 1/2
PRIN livia 991
Pe CM sicesicaes 977
PE seassestienntncianiais 968
PE iii 935..1/2
Pe einen 922 1/2
Pee a iisisccca 919
ee 901 1/2
PRED scasiiisiaiancnnus 883
Be Secaluiiesccula 874 1/2
BE  ekciguiiamaminuaul 824
EMG COE oaiciscecsctccsssscees 807 1/2
eee 771
TN icecscscciann 753 1/2
Sains 753
BO Swiss! 557 1/2
ei duis uns 350
Pe iii ae Si 297 1/2

 

NOTICE

All candidates for next year’s
football team will meet in the Gym
tonight at 7:30.

 

 

 

 

The First National Bank

of Lexington
*
has special checking accounts

for students

 

 

 

 

the farther
smoke travels
Air-Sottened,
the milder,
the cooler,
the smoother |
it tastes

 

THE SATISFIER

 

   
 
 
  
 
    
 
  
 

4

i

Make a date’ with flavor. Try Chesterfield King.

7-day cruise through the Bahamas on a fabulous yacht plus
two glorious days in Nassau—all expenses paid for you and
five of your friends. Hundreds of other “water-fun” prizes,
too. Entry blanks wherever ‘Vaseline’ Hair Tonic is sold.

         
 

the Matera! Way
Coens Bry Seip end

  

Keep it under your hat! ‘Vaseline’ Hair Tonic is made
specially for men who use water with their hair tonic.
‘Vaseline’ Hair Tonic won’t evaporate—it’s 100% pure light
grooming oil—replaces the oil water removes from your hair.

it’s clear ¢ 2
it’s clean...it’s

VASELINE HAIR TONIC

VASELINE' IS A REGISTERED TRADEMARK OF CHESEBROUGH: PONDS ING,

 

Every satisfying puff is A/r-Softened to enrich th.
flavor and make it mild. Special porous paper

lets you draw fresh air into the full king length of
top-tobacco, straight Grade-A all the way. 1 hs

Join the swing to . |

UHEDTERFIELD KING

© liggett & Myers Tobacco Ca
a
Page 4

THE RING-TUM PHI

 

Busy Finals Week For Seniors

(Continued from page 1)

Finals Dance in the Gymnasium at
9:00 Tuesday night, May 30, with the
Pat Dorn band playing. On Wednes-
day afternoon at 3 p.m. Jimmy Reed
will play at the concert to be held
on Wilson Field.

Thursday’s schedule includes the
Baccalaureate Service in Lee Chapel

 

Glee Club Elects Officers
(Continued from page 1)

was the Publicity staff, composed of
Jere Cravens, John Baker, and Rick
Belser, and Librarians Randy Woot-
ton and Jay Smith.

 

Notice

Extra invitations for senior gradu-
ation may be purchased at the Co-
op. ss

There will be no Friday edition
of the Ring-tum Phi.

* * *

The Editorial Staff of the Tuesday

Edition will not meet this week.

 

Students Publish Magazine

“Probes,” an independent student
literary magazine, will be on sale in
front of Washington Hall through
Wednesday.

The 40-page magazine, with four
illustrations, cost 50 cents.

Included are the short stories by
Ron Alenstein and Paul Van Avery
that won Mahan Awards this spring.

 

 

STATE

LEXINGTON. VA
b. MOSART 3-3424 |

 

 

NOW SHOWING

elONE’S FLIPPED 9
oe

Vp

  
 

 

MicMURRAY-OLSON:

Retessed by BUCNA VISTA tne. Wah Deeney Protections.

 

Starting Friday

 

en ASHs .

“Around

seettaner or

Dm SY An OOM» KON STS Sn NX
Dv on Poel by GEORGE SONY = i
GG MEO RL = CAS

 

 

 

Radio Hospital
*
Radio, TV, Phonograph
Sales and Service

*

HO 3-3531

 

 

 

 

SPENCER

General Tire
536 E. Nelson Street

Best in Tires
GENERAL

Best in Recapping
Kraft Tread

New and Used Tires

FOR COMPACT CARS

@ SOHSHHHHSHSHOHHHCHHOHHOHSHHHCHOKSECHOHHECOHOOSECE
SCHHSHSHHSSHHSSHHHOSHSHHSSHHSSEHHHOEOBE

which begins at 11:00. The speaker
at this service will be Dr. William
F. Quillian, the President of Ran-
dolph-Macon Woman’s College.

Following this, the alumni lunch-
eon for all seniors and their parents
will be held on the President’s front
lawn. If the weather is bad, the
luncheon will be held in the Gym-
nasium. At 9:00 on Thursday night,
a reception will be held in the
President’s Home for all seniors and
parents.

On Friday at 9:00 a.m. the com-
missioning ceremony for all students
enrolled in Army, Navy, and Marine
college training programs will be
held in Lee Chapel. That same morn-
ing the Commencement Exercises
will be held on the lawn. If the
weather should be bad for com-
mencement, the ceremony will be
held in Doremus Gymnasium.

Tickets for the Baccalaureate
Service are limited and may be ob-
tained from Miss Ravenhorst in the
President’s Office on Tuesday and
Wednesday of Finals Week.

Ra ake ke

TUES.-WED.-THURS.

He ee me DEEPLY MOVING!”

—Cameron, News

Hiroshima...
Mon Amour

LooeeeeeeeoeT Eons

IDEAL :

BARBER SHOP
QUICK SERVICE

 

 

 

 

hase

\

 

et

Merle lo eke ohooh olorte

Peete

eotertetooobebntooboboboteteteteteotobetetedeseotege
SOCHSEOOHOSHOEHHOOEEEOOE

*Dodge and Dodge Dart
and Lancer

America’s First Fine

ECONOMY CAR
2

Rockbridge Motor Co.
INC.

Phone HObart 3-3146

 

@OeSe2eoeSeceseeeeeeosece
——————————— — -

HOME
IS ONLY
MINUTES
AWAY

ON

PIEDMONT
, AIRLINES

Plan to fly

home soon on

Piedmont Airlines.
Pledmont serves
colleges, prep-schools

and home towns all

across the top

of the South

PIEDMONT
AIRLINES

serves ‘you better

call Pledmont or your
Travel Agent.

 

 

 

 

House Used Many Ways
(Continued from page 2)
Preston House was the name of a
home, owned by the Preston family,
which was situated on the site now
occupied by Davis Dormitory. The
University used this house to house
freshmen when there was no room

in the freshman dorm.

A sign bearing the name Preston
House once hung over the porch of
the original Preston House. When
this house was destroyed, the sign
was transferred to its last location
on the grey house torn down last
week.

)

Green Valley Motel Store Your Winter Clothes

With Us

Fully Insured
PAY NEXT FALL

ROCKBRIDGE LAUNDRY

and

DRY CLEANERS

One Mile North on
U. S. Highway No. 11

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA
HO 3-2195

 

 

 

 

 

SPORTS BANQUET
(Continued from page 3)

ee LY

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

won both the Intercollegiate and
Grand Athletic Awards. THE NEW
Ted Doremus received the Fra- e \ J}
ternity Athletic Director’s Award White To
Restaurant ;
For those extra pieces : Shirt Service as You Like it
of Quality Cleaning and Pressing
FURNITURE

A personal invitation UNIVERSITY CLEANERS

for your room

see our stock to the ies iii
before buying Students .
a Try our delicious foods
Route 60 East “Your Campus Neighbors”

ee ee ee ee ee
rrr ss se ee ee ee ee
le cle he she BeBe Me ho Bee he Be Be he Be Me BeBe Bee Bee
TET SST Se eee eee

VARNER AND POLE

 

te
.
5
k
F
le
i.
ik
¥
ie
Fe
5
.
i.
i.
5
ie
7
5
5
.
te
fe
P
ie
i.
ie
e
.
k
\
™
i.
e
e

I a

 

Ha Bia Ma se Bin Be ste Me Me sta se Be Me she ste Be ae ate Ma Be he Me Me Me Be he Me he Me Be Be Be le he he Be Me Me Me Be Be Be Bo Be Bete Be

 

TS Ee ee ee ee ee ee ee Se eS SS eS Ss SS Se OS ee ee ee

 

 

 

 

Eee oho feof ode ofe of of oe ofe oe ode ode obese oho e of ole obese oder

 

 

SSCHHHESSSHSOHHOSSOSHSOSHHOSSSHOCHESHOHSHSOSOOHOOO OEE
FOR ROOM RESERVATIONS—CALL HO 3-2151

LEXINGTON MOTEL
Large Rooms—U. S. 11 By-Pass South
Free TV—Phones—Continental Breakfast
Only Motel in corporate limits of Lexington
SOSSSNSSESSSSSSOCHSSHSHOSSSSSESSESCOHCSSESSOSHSOSSSOSESSESEOCE

 

 

The Southern Inn

Cordially invites you to make this your headquarters for good food
Here you get the best food for the most reasonable prices

Our Specialties:

Steaks, Chicken, Country Ham, and thie best sandwiches
in town

   

STUDENTS ACCOUNTS INVITED HERE

Meet your friends here Member F. D. 1. C.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

THE TAREYTON RIN
MARKS THE REAL THING!

 

Here’s one filter cigarette that’s really different!

The difference is this: Tareyton’s Dual Filter gives you a
unique inner filter of ACTIVATED CHARCOAL, definitely proved to ee
make the taste of a cigarette mild and smooth. It works together with
a pure white outer filter—to balance the flavor elements in the smoke.

Tareyton delivers—and you enjoy—the best taste of the best tobaccos.

   

Pure white outer filter

 

 

pu rarer LAVTEVION nes een

 
 

 

 

FINALS
Editon

Che Ring-tum Phi

Washington and Lee Semi-Weekly Newspaper

FINALS
Edition

 

Volume LXI

LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA, MAY 30, 1961

Number 58

 

 

Miss Elizabeth Kirkpatrick
Mary Baldwin
Escorted by Bob Street

so

    

Miss Shelia McCartney
Randolph-Macon
Escorted by Ed Ladd

 

 

which featured T. N. T. Tri

was held in back of the Sigma Nu
house, marked the opening of the
last dance set that many graduating
seniors will attend.

Pat Dorn and his orchestra will
highlight the formal dance which
opens at 9 p.m. tonight in Doremus
Gym. Decorated along the theme of
“Peanuts,” a comic strip created by
Charles Schulz, Doremus Gymna-
sium will witness a figure to be
held at 10:15. The figure will be led
by Broaddus, followed by the six
vice-presidents of Finals Dances.

Vice-presidents for the two-day
affair are graduating seniors Dick
Sharlin, ZBT from Washington, D.C.,
who is in charge of publicity; Bob
Street, a KA from Oklahoma City,
accommodations; Calvin Adams,
Sigma Nu from Tallulah, La., invi-
tations; Glenn Fidler, Sigma Nu

__:|from Augusta, Ga., cocktail party;
+|Ed Ladd, a Beta from Mobile, Ala.,

Miss Judy Nogee
American University
Escorted by Richard Sharlin

   

ponent accom stens ces

 

Miss Mary Pondrom
Hollins College
Escorted by Clifford Adams

ee eee

 

Miss Myrtie Rawlins
Hollins College
Escorted by Glenn Fidler

 

| decorations; and Bill Willes, Sigma
-|Nu from Fort Pierce, Fla., who is
'|in charge of the figure.

Finals Dances will be highlighted

by the appearance of Jimmy Reed
_| at tomorrow’s concert to be held on
: Wilson Field.

Reed, a nationally known rock

‘land roll artist, makes this his first
| appearance at Washington and Lee.

The concert, scheduled from 3-5

| p.m. Wednesday, will be held on the
| grass on Wilson Field.

Conventional Dress Not Required

Conventional Dress will not be
required for this afternoon concert,
dance officials said today.

The Dance Board informed the
Ring-tum Phi today that it will not

respectable manner. Conventional
Bermudas and sports shirts will be
considered respectable, a spokesman
said.

There will be no drinking of any
kind at the open-air concert, the
spokesman said, and no cups will
be allowed. Violators of this rule,
he said, will be subject to admin-
istrative action.

Pat Dorn, and his orchestra, a
popular group in the East, will sup-
ply the music at tonight’s formal

War II.

One of the highlights for Dorn’s
group came from a recent college
tour. At Yale University, he and
his orchestra accompanied singer
Roy Hamilton.

Concert Has Jimmy Reed

Jimmy Reed, a nationally known
rock and roll artist, will headline
the concert tomorrow. Reed ranks
among the all-time recording greats
in folk, rhythm and blues, and jazz.
He is recognized as one of the na-
tion’s top guitarists and singers. He
has consistently hit the “Top Twenty
Nationally” charts with each of his
records. His recent hits include
Found Love, You Got Me Dizzy,
Going to Virginia, and Caress Me.

Commenting on the appearance of
Jimmy Reed, Dance Board Presi-

-|dent Jimmy Vann said, “Contract-
_|ing a rock and roll singer is an
_| attempt to bring the concerts more

in line with what many students

| seem to desire.”

For many W&L graduating seniors

+|this dance set will be their last.
‘| During their four years at W&L,
‘| most of the seniors have seen dance
‘|sets come and go but this one will
‘| be their last.

Vice-Presidents’ Dates

Dance President Al Broaddus will
escort Miss Joyce Neiditz at tonight’s

 

dance. A senior at Hollins, she is
from Shaker Heights, Ohio.

Jimmy R
TNT Tribble At Finals

Finals Dances got into full swing this afternoon with the |:
opening of the traditional cocktail party held in Red Square |

admit any couple not dressed in al!

dance. Dorn and his group made an]:
appearance at W&L during World|’

bble, “the walking drummer.”

Given in honor of Finals Dances President, Al Broaddus,
Sigma Nu senior from Richmond, the cocktail party, which

Broaddus was elected into Omi-
cron Delta Kappa this year. A mem-
ber of Phi Beta Kappa, Fulbright
Scholarship holder, he is a member
of Who’s Who in American Colleges
and Universities.

Bob Street, a KA Senior, will
escort Miss Elizabeth Kirkpatrick
in tonight’s figure. A senior at Mary
Baldwin, she is from Culpeper, Va.
Street is a member of Scabbard and
Blade, the debate team, and was
a member of the Ring-tum Phi staff.

Miss Mary Ann Pondrom, a Hol-
lins College senior, will be escorted
by Cal Adams, a Sigma Nu. She is
from Dallas, Texas.

Adams is a member of Mongolian
Minks, Scabbard and Blade, and Pi

eed, Pat

   

 

Dorn,

 

 

Miss Anne Kemper
Hollins College

Escorted by Bill Willes

 

 

Alpha Nu.

Ed Ladd, a Beta, will escort Miss
Shelia McCartney, a R-MWC fresh-
man. She is from Lakeland, Fla.
Ladd was editor-in-chief of the
1960 Calyx, and is a member of ODK.
An officer of the Publications Board,
he was named vice-president of the
Commerce School in last year’s class
elections.

Anne Kemper, a Hollins senior,
will be escorted by Bill Willes, a
Sigma Nu. She is from Roslyn
Estates, N.Y. Willes is a member of
Scabbard and Blade, the Varsity
Club and the varsity football team.
He was a member of Pi Sigma Al-
pha.

Richard Sharlin, a ZBT, will escort
Miss Judy Nogee, an American Uni-
versity junior from Washington.
Sharlin was business manager of
this year’s Calyx, a member of the
Publications Board, the Commerce
Fraternity, Scabbard and _ Blade,
Student Service Society, and was a
fraternity officer for ZBT.

Glenn Fidler, a Sigma Nu from
Augusta, Ga., will escort Miss Myrtie
Rawlins, a Hollins College senior.
She is from Ica, Peru.

Fidler is a member of the Mon-

 

Miss Joyce Neiditz, Hollins College
Escorted by Dance President Al Broaddus

 

Mr. Ford said the gift would help
preserve one of the South’s most
prized landmarks, and is regarded
by the Fund as a contribution to
the Civil War Centennial observ-
ance now in progress throughout the
United States.

“Our trustees believe it to be most
important to maintain the Lee
Chapel as a priceless spiritual and
historic possession for the South
and for the nation,” he said.

Dr. Fred C. Cole, president of
Washington and Lee University,
said:

“Washington and Lee is indeed
grateful to the Ford Motor Com-
pany Fund for enabling this univer-
sity to continue to fulfill its trust
to preserve and maintain such a
place of historical value and charm.
Because the University’s first com-
mitment is to education, it would be
most difficult in the near future to
provide sufficient funds from the
normal endowment resources for the
restoration of the chapel.

Gift Important

“I know everyone interested in
the heritage of this country is also
grateful that the Ford Motor Com-
pany Fund will support this impor-
tant undertaking in such generous
fashion. This gift will certainly rank
as one of the most important and
timely ever received by Washington
and Lee University.

The $370,000 contribution will be
presented to the University during
commencement exercises at the Lex-
inton campus June 2,

Work Begins Immediately
Dr. Cole said architects and con-
sultants specializing in restoration

. _| of historic sites will begin work im-

 

Ford Motor Company Gives $370,000
To Restore W&L's Famed Chapel

Washington and Lee University’s famous Lee Chapel will
be restored with a gift of $370,000 from the Ford Motor Com-
pany Fund, it was announced earlier this week.

Henry Ford, president of the fund, said that the contri-

bution will be made to Washington and Lee for restoration of
Lee Chapel located on the campus.*

 

mediately on plans for the restora-
tion. The actual work of restoring
the building will require about 18
months, he added.

More than 30,000 persons visit the
Lee Chapel annually. Dr. Cole said
the structure will remain open to
the public while restoration work is
under way.

Gen. Robert E. Lee commander-
in-chief of the Confederate Army
during the Civil War built the fa-
mous chapel while serving as presi-
dent of the University from 1865
to 1870.

The Lee Chapel stands today
much as it did in General Lee’s time
except for an extension to the rear
of the building to provide space for
Edward Valentine’s famous Recum-
bent Statute of Lee.

Is Now Museum

It houses a museum of Lee battle-
field and family memorabilia and an
art collection with many valuable
paintings, including original por-
traits of George Washington, James
Madison, General La Fayette and
several of Lee. Adjacent to the mu-
seum is Lee’s office unchanged from
the time of his death in Lexington
on October 12, 1870. The general and
members of his family are buried
in the chapel.

Over the years, the building has
deteriorated. Wooden trusses sup-
porting the slate roof have sagged
and side walls bulge. Utilities need
modernizing and extensive other
work and repairs are needed.

The Ford Motor Company Fund is
a non-profit corporation operated for
scientific, charitable and educational
purposes ,and is financed by contri-
butions from Ford Motor Company.

 

* 209 Seniors To Be Graduated;
 |Quillian, Cole As Main Speakers

President William F. Quillian, Jr. of Randolph-Macon
Woman’s College and President Fred C. Cole of Washington

" __|and Lee will be the principal speakers for Washington and Lee’s

 

 

golian Minks, and was in charge of
the cocktail party given by Sigma
Nu in honor of Broaddus.

 

Haslett Receives Fulbright;
To Study In Germany

David W. Haslett, a Lambda Chi
graduating senior from Hickory,
N.C., received a Fulbright Award
recently, Dr. Charles W. Turner an-
nounced today.

Haslett will study for one year at
Frieburg, Germany, Dr. Turner of
the history department said. His
course of study will be philosophy,
he added.

“Notice of Haslett’s getting a Ful-
bright Award,” Dr. Turner said,
“came just a few days ago.”

“Two students from W&L will be
on Fulbright fellowships next year
in addition to Haslett. Al Broaddus,
a Sigma Nu from Richmond, and
James A. Vann from Birmingham,

 

CAPS AND GOWNS
Applicants for degrees may pick
up caps and gowns in the Student
Union Wednesday between 2 and
5 p.m,

two-day program of final exercises, Thursday and Friday.
President Quillian will deliver the baccalaureate sermon on

-|Thursday at 11 a.m. (EDT) in Lee Chapel. President Cole

 

_| will give the graduation address at®
.|commencement Friday at 11 a.m.

(EDT) on the front campus lawn.
209 Degrees
Candidates for degrees at Wash-

‘|ington and Lee total 209, including
-|23 for LL.B. degrees, 132 for B.A.
‘| degrees, 24 for B.S. degrees, 27 for
_| B.S. degrees in commerce, and three

for B.S. degrees in chemistry.

A special feature of the com-
mencement ceremony will be the
presentation of a gift of $370,000
to Washington and Lee from the
Ford Motor Company Fund of
Dearborn, Michigan, for the res-
toration of historic Lee Chapel.
Allen W. Merrell, vice-president
of the Fund, will make the presen-
tation just prior to President Cole’s
graduation remarks.

Brian H. Vitsky, a pre-medical
senior from Richmond, will deliver
the program’s student valedictory
address.

Alumni Luncheon

Following baccalaureate services
Thursday, the Alumni Association
will be host to seniors, their fam-
ilies, and other guests for luncheon
on the back campus lawn. The an-
nual meeting of the Alumni Asso-
ciation is scheduled for 2 p.m.
Thursday.

President and and Mrs. Cole will
receive seniors and their families
in the President’s Home at 9 p.m.
Thursday.

Prior to the academic procession
and commencement Friday, 39 sen-
iors will be commissioned second
lieutenants in the U.S. Army Reserve

 

in ceremonies in Lee Chapel at 9

am. (EDT).

 

39 Seniors

To Be Sworn

Thirty-nine seniors will be com-
missioned on Friday morning to be-
gin the second full day of Gradua-
tion activities and ceremonies. Of the
39, 38 will receive U.S. Army com-
missions; one will receive a commis-
sion in the U.S. Navy.

Colonel Ben L. Anderson, Infan-
try, will address the assembled
Cadets to be commissioned at nine
on Friday morning in Lee Chapel,
prior to the formal commissioning
ceremony.

Colonel Anderson is a Washington
and Lee graduate of the Class of
’38 and is the highest ranking grad-
uate of the W&L ROTC program,
receiving his rank of Colonel in
January of 1958. While at Washing-
ton and Lee he was a member of
Sigma Nu fraternity and Omicron
Delta Kappa.

Assuming the command of the
Ist Battle Group, 13th Infantry, in
January of 1959, at Sandhofen,
Germany, Col. Anderson has led a
varied and diversified career in the
U.S. Army.

During World War II he was with
the 93rd Infantry Division as G-1
and G-3, serving in the Solomon
Islands and New Guniea. He was
later assigned to the G-3 section,
General Headquarters, Southwest
Pacific area, which was General
MacArthur’s headquarters. He serv-
ed in this position until 1946, when
he returned to the United States.

In 1947 he returned to the Far

(Continued on page 6)
Page 2

Che Ring-tum Phi

Washington and Lee In Retrospect

Four years, though a relatively small segment of time, af-
fords one a degree of perspective with which to analyze, criticize
and compliment. Goals and gains, progress and potential, as
well as error, neglect and weakness can be better assessed over
such a span. In a real sense, it usually takes a person four years
to approach an understanding of and appreciation for the arti-
ficiality of a university environment and its resulting advantages.

Washington and Lee, as we say so often, has acquired a
new vitality in leadership and the progressive reform resulting
from this so-called ‘‘new era” is a constant source for our praise
and gratitude. But above all the shouts for the future and prog-
ress, I feel the strength of Washington and Lee does not lie in
its promise, but in its past.

Academic excellence has always been a goal of this universi-
ty and as it is presently reflected in a dedicated faculty and an
inquisitive student body such excellence will not be an inno-
vation, but a continuance. This is not to say that new concepts,
methods and ideas do not find fruition at Washington and Lee,
but only that there is and has been existent here a cultivated
tradition into which the new and different are assimilated. With
the promise of curricula re-vitalization and other such means
of improving upon the traditional, our education becomes a
dichotomy in concept—the wisdom of the old blended with
the strength and promise of the new.

Our editorials over the course of this academic year have
been concerned, for the most part, with problems as well as
progress, and I would like to end these efforts with this same
combination. My criticism is informed by a strong sense of de-
votion to the ideals of this university and the principles of a
liberal arts education.

“protest”

Fortunately, or unfortunately, as the case may be, this
student body has fallen subject to a new motivation. Forgetting
for a moment its sources and its methods, such a motivation
is healthy in so far as it brings the student of Washington and
Lee to a better understanding of his status as an individual
and as a scholar. On the other hand, it is indeed unfortunate
that such an innovation had to issue from the rabble-rousing
techniques and propaganda tricks of a self-esteemed pedant and
his small coterie of ne’er-do-wells and angry young men. What
this group has failed to grasp is that wisdom of the past, which
we speak about above, upon which the institutions they wish
to shatter were founded. In a rash outpouring of personal in-
sults the “protest” movement was initiated to shatter the icons
of our complacency. Icons there may have been; but to break
up a way of life—the good and the bad—just for the sake of
breaking violates any rational understanding of purpose. The
movement later gained momentum when personal aggrandize-
ment raised its ugly, obvious head. If the student body of
Washington and Lee ever again leaves itself vulnerable to
gadfles of such questionable motives and character, they are
endangering their own personal values as well as the proven
heritage of this university.

Athletics

In other areas which merit criticism, I would only re-em-
phasize, first, the seemingly nebulous organization and expen-
ditures of the athletic department. Because non-subsidization is
a reality here, we should not maneuver to avoid the restrictions
of such a concept, but try to improve our athletic life within it.
In earlier editorials, I have called the athletic department to
challenge on many cases which are indicative of faulty admin-
istration and an unwillingness to accept the system of non-sub-
sidization. First, the levy of excessive admission charges to
football games which taxed considerably a student’s date and
family was cited. Not only was the gate charge unrealistic, but
it was arrived at arbitrarily without the consent of the Univer-

 

Graduation Day

The following editorial was written in 1947 by Charles
McDowell, then a student at Washington and Lee, and now a
columnist for the Richmond Times-Dispatch. Things are pretty
much the same today.

One bright June morning pretty soon now a crowd will
gather at a little college chapel to see graduation. They will
take seats on the hard, straightbacked seats inside the little
building or on the rows of folding chairs set up in the sun-
shine and maple-shade outside.

Mothers and fathers will meet other mothers and fathers,
and little sisters will be introduced to roommates. A great-
grandfather will tell a girl from Hollins about the time he sat on
the same hard seats waiting for his own diploma.

Four young wives will sit together talking about new ad-
dresses and the old bridge club. An usher who is just a little
hung over will show an elderly lady who hasn’t missed a gradu-
ation in thirty years to her seat.

As people with cameras edge closer to the sidewalk, a bell
will ring. A long line of boys in black robes and tassled hats will
move down the center walk two-by-two and out of step. Some
will smile, some will frown, and some will seem sad.

They will file into the little chapel; there will be coughing
and scraping of feet; and then a man will begin to speak. The
graduating class of 1961 will sit down and listen.

The man will talk about Washington and Lee and a boy in
the third row will look out the windows at the green tree in the
sun and he will think of Washington and Lee. He will remem-

(Continued on page 6)

 

sity Committee on Athletics—a seldom functioning body, in
my opinion, which shares the blame in the majority of these
athletic abuses. Secondly, student funds seem to attach them-
selves to other athletic strings, rather thar’ the ones for which
they were appropriated. Each student has been paying by the
semester for adequate gymnasium facilities and equipment.
Even with this burdensom assessment in the clutches of the
athletic department, the gym remains an antiquated barn, ill-
furnished and needing drastic repair. There is irony in the fact
that the student who is charged such an exorbitant fee ($70)
is not even allowed the use of a towel. Also, every fraternity
man at Washington and Lee pays $3.00 annually to participate
in intramural athletics without any evidence as to where the rev-
enue is going—save for minimal equipment and _ referee
charges. Approximately $3,000.00 is netted yearly in revenue
by this emanation of the athletic department, and the student
becomes the dupe once again. The student body is very proud
of its football team which is yearly soaring to new heights, but
perhaps is unaware of the fact that near-lavish spending on this
team prevents the other inter-collegiate teams from having
adequate uniforms and equipment. The drift to blatant mis-
management in the athletic department must be checked .

Fraternities

Finally, much needs to be done to halt the excess and
unnecessary fraternity spending. Such wasted luxury only
burdens the student whose means are more modest than those
of the simple majority which overrides him. With Washington
and Lee’s expanding scholarship program will come more stu-
dents who will be unable to meet the financial demands of our
socially competing fraternities. This is a change that must come
from within, or face direction from without. It is incumbent
upon fraternity officers and members to give consideration to
this financial irrationality and take steps to curb it.

 

Spirit of Washington and Lee

Aside from lesser shortcomings, Washington and Lee’s
greatest assets cannot be cited enough. One of the strongest
features of our student life is the Honor System. Here is a mas-
sive spirit of honor which permeates our collective existence at
Washington and Lee, but recognizes the honor of an individual.
The one single feature of this university’s life that means the
most to those who have gone before is our Honor System.

Incorporated along with the Honor System in the “‘Spirit
of Washington and Lee” is its glorious heritage, its traditional
desire for academic excellence, its superior instructors and
administrators, and the enviable sense of dedication that is
reflected in the lives of men like Dean Frank J. Gilliam whose
love for this university is complemented by a history of out-
standing service.

If this editorial smacks of nostalgia or sentimentality,
it is only because it marks the culmination of many happy and
satisfying moments with the Ring-tum Phi and four years of
association at this university for which I am most grateful.

Expression, as I have come to realize, is the most powerful
single tool for the planting and harvesting, or the destruction,
of an idea. To appreciate the combined efforts that go into
the publishing of the Ring-tum Phi, an attempt at expression, is
to thank those many students and university personnel whose
contributions have made the success of our newspaper possible.
I would like to pay particular tribute to the columnists and
staff of the Friday Edition, and especially George Honts, for
their many hours of tedious work. To Mr. Harold Lauck, my
sincere thanks for his tolerance and effort on behalf of the
student newspaper, and to his staff, Charles Perfetti, Edward
Walker, Lynwood Pullen and Edward Backus, goes the grati-
tude of all of us.

—Nathan Philemon Bryan Simpson

 

 

lg

 

 

grant given to your school.

 

 

SUMMER JOBS

FOR MEN STUDENTS

Applications now being accepted for summer jobs
with major national corporation.

Young men 18 years and over, wanted to learn marketing, sales
promotions and brand identification techniques during summer.
High level executive management training courses given to qualified

applicants. earnings in excess of $100 a week.

SCHOLARSHIPS

Win one of 15 $1,000 scholarships and have a $1,000

BEST POSITIONS GOING FAST!

Call or write for appointment.

Mr. W. C. Costen

610 Carlton Terrace Building
920 Jefferson Street

Roanoke, Virginia

Phone—DI 2-0498 between 9 a.m. and 1 p.m.

a,

 

 

 

 

 
4
i
!
a

 

 

 

THE RING-TUM PHI

Page 3

 

Webster Abridges The Past And Future

By ED WEBSTER
Tuesday Columnist

It’s pretty frustrating to try to
sum up a lot of private memories
for other people to read. Probably
Charlie McDowell did as good a job
as anyone could ever do; that’s why
we reprint his essay on the editorial
page at the end of every term.

Although we hurry to be rid of
the old scenes and move on to new
experiences, the old scenes look
somewhat more attractive when
the’re seen in retrospect. We love
familiar things because they give
us a sense of security. That’s why
we like to read about green grass,
and autumn hillsides, a memorable
lecture, a bull session, Goshen
2 ae

We seniors will squirrel away our
old yearbooks and drag them out
for our children one day. We will
point out Old George, and the Colon-
nades, and the fraternity house—and
we'll hope that nothing has chaned
too much.

* od a

But change is the great law of
modern life; we will take our places
as lawyers businessmen or teachers
in a world that alters with bewilder-
ing swiftness.

Unfortunately many of us will
refuse to recognize the fact that
the changes—social, political, eco-
nomic, and scientific—will force us
to abandon our comfortable pat-
terns of thinking and living. Such
people, groomed to be leading cit-
izens, will actually play only a
negative role in society: they will
keep other people from moving
ahead too fast.

Unfortunately too, many of us
were defeated in this race before
it even started. Many seniors will
leave here with the same ideas that
they. had as freshmen, except per-
haps that their morals will be a
little looser. For many of us, the
last four years have been nothing
but an extension of prep school—a
wasted period when nothing is ven-
tured and nothing is gained.

Many of us will never again
open a thought-provoking book, or
attend a worthwhile lecture, or ex-
perience a new thought or feel-
ing. Many of us will wrap our-
selves up in our smug little self-
centered worlds, while the real
world passes us by.

“9

 

In short, many W&L graduates
will be mediocre citizens, just as
they were mediocre students.

* * *

The fault lies partly with the in-
dividuals who come here. But some
of the blame must be laid on the
disorganized curriculum that mas-
querades as our program of educa-
tion.

Surely the faculty committee that
is studying revisions in the curricu-
lum could not have failed to notice
the deadening effect that the fresh-

 

man and sophomore years have on*

a student.

Surely the committee cannot
have overlooked abusrdity of or-
ganizing history, literature, and
the social sciences as separate, and
even incompatible, disciplines. Nor
can the committee have failed to
see that the memorization of un-
related facts, which can win an
“A” in most courses, entirely miss-
es the point of education.

Surely the committee is aware of

(Continued on page 5)

 

 

Brownlee Challenges Class Of *65;
Calls For Wisdom Amid Ignorance

By MALCOLM BROWNLEE

This column is mainly directed
towards those of us who will be
entering the ivy-coated halls of this
institution of higher learning for
the primary time next autumn. Those
of us who are in this more enviable
than enviable than enviable position

Jon McLin Reflects On Merits
Of Oxford and American Systems

By JON McLIN

OXFORD, May 8—As this year’s
Ring-tum Phi, and with it the series
of these columns, is drawing to a
close, it is appropriate that this last
piece concern itself with some final
reflections on the relative merits
of the Oxford system, with respect
to American universities.

In doing so, I hope to tread more
gently upon ground which has been
rather abruptly broken by a Har-
vardian at Oxford. Comparing Ox-
ford to his U.S. alma mater in a re-
cent article in one of the University
magazines, he rather tactlessly told
his readers a few truths, and even
more blatant lies, about the super-
iority of Harford to Oxford. The
description of the occurrence in the
New York Times placed the article
in perspective by identifying

nority who held such views.

Ask an English student what he
considers the greatest merit of/|j

American universities and he will
say the oportunity for the breadth
of study, ie., for stuavying many
different subjects before specializing
in one.

This points up the contrast with
Britain, where students begin to
specialize in one course of study
even in their last two years of
secondary school. This is followed
by three years at Oxford or Cam-
bridge where they study only one
subject. The PPE course—philoso-

its | §
author as one of a disgruntled mi-|}

 

phy, politics, economics—is the
broadest one here and so is under-
standably popular with American
students.

Of course the most distinguishing
feature of Oxford’s type of education

 

Rhodes Scholar McLin
Former Editor of R-t P

is the tutorial system. And signifi-
cantly, it is here that both the
greatest strength and the greatest
weakness of the system lie.

The strength is the individual at-
tention which is given to the stu-

 

dent. The attendant advantages of
this is the establishment of standards
of judgment and the setting of a pace
suited to the individual rather than
to the average of a class.

The weakness lies in the fragmen-
tation which results from the one-

| essay-a-week approach to work. One

may get keen insights into eight

™ problems during the eight weeks
4 and eight tutorials of one term, but

he is unlikely to have a very com-

# prehensive view of his subject mat-

ter.
Another weakness is the undue

F reliance it places upon the quality
. of the tutors. While a good tutor
'can make the system an excellent

one, a poor tutor can make it less
than ineffective. And even scupu-
lous college wardens cannot avoid
a few poor tutors.

Similarly, the greatest strength
and greatest weakness of the Ameri-
can system can be seen from out-
side to lie in its most characteristic
feature—the organized series of lec-
ture. The merit, of course, lies in the
opportunity it presents for that inte-
gration and  comprehensiveness
which the British system has been
seen to lack.

But its great weakness—some Bri-
tons would argue that it is one that
is seldom overcome—is that it in-
duces in the student the attitude
that he’s done enough when he has
fulfilled the requirements of his

(Continued on page 5)

 

will have four years in which to
find pure happiness. But some of
us, just as certain as certain can
be, will lead an existence here
which is as boring as tears. In other
words, to say it shortly but sweetly,
some of us will study, and this, as
any fool can tell us, is not the way
to pure happiness. I would like to
hold myself up as an example of
an individual which has _ never
studied but who still gets by.

Before these freshmen enter our
doors of higher learning, flung
open wide for them, next fall, they
will receive so many long and heart-
rending letters that they will need
to put their noses to the grindstone
in order to make heads or tails out
of said letters.

They will have to labor like Tro-
jans in their Heculean efforts to
separate the whys and the where-
fores of said letters. Many lesser
men would sink to the depths of
dispair at the idea of tackling such
a task as that which will soon loom
on the horizon before each and
every one of next year’s freshmen.

I have felt that there is a long-
felt need of presenting clearly and
directly to incoming freshmen a
crystal clear criterion whereby
they may judge between the true
and the false in such letters as
they may receive during the sum-
mer forthwith to come. The acid
test in separating the sheep letters
from the goat letters is this: look
with suspicion on any letter that
tells you that your college days
must be days of study. You can
pass through this university like
an eel through water without
opening a book.

The undercurrent of excitement
which weighs heavily on the stu-
dent matriculating into this univer-
sity is no deep, dark secret. Slowly
but surely each and every student
must find himself and become
abreast of the times. During his first
few weeks here he may figure he
has a tough row to hoe and may
work like a Trojan into the wee
small hours of the morning. He may

(Continued on page 6)

 

CheRing-hun Phi

The Ring-tum Phi is pemtanet Tues-
day and Friday durin e college year.
It is printed by the Journalism Labor-
atory Press, ashington and Lee Uni-
versity. The mailing address is Box
899, Lexington, Va,

Entered ag second class matter 5ep-
tember 20, 1946 at the Post Office, x-
ington, Va., under the act of March
3, .

National Advertising Representative:
The National /dvertisers Service, Inc.,
420 Madison A\e., New York, N.Y.
Editor

Editor:

anne Rosewell Page, III
asinasieeiens Nathan Simpson

 

CAPS AND GOWNS

Applicants for degrees may pick
up caps and gowns in the Student
Union Wednesday between 2 and
5 p.m,

$tO006400094000800066060

Baker
Ford Sales

B

BETTER DEALS

CLEARANCE
of lot for 1961 Models

 

ley

NEW AND
USED CARS

Highway 60 East

He oferferferfergergerge

e

Ns ois vis ois oho ohooh ae he sooo oe whe oe ae ae afe oe ae eae af
ONTO PROS SOTO ONO T eres

4
White’s Music:

Store

(Opposite State Theater)

i
Phonographs—Hi-Fi
Expert Repair Service
i

5 W. Nelson St. Lexington, Va.
HO 3-3522

 

Fe rGo nfo fe ofenfenhe re oho ofe oho ofe nde fe oho oho she ofe ole fe ole ofe oho of oho ole fe oho ole ole of ole efor of

le Bo Be Be Be Be Be Be Be Be Be Be Be Bg Ba Be Be Be Ma Me Be Me ee Be Me Be Ma Be Me
ererrrrrtn '‘*'''te'r,er0."r''r'rr.

*

He rterdooesfe obo obe ofeofe fe oho ole fe ahe ofe ae ofe oe ode se oho rhea

 

A Message to the New Students

The traditions of Washington and Lee University require conven-
tional dress. Our shop, in keeping with these traditions, is designed

 

 

 

COLLEGE TOWN SHOP

111 W. Nelson Street

ey
Ey,

\

Leg
Z

Aen]
eves

¥
svi

solely for the W&L man and features the natural
shoulder style prevailing on our campus.

The correct appearance of both “‘on and off” campus is so very im-

portant throughout the school year...

AND YOU CERTAINLY WANT TO LOOK YOUR BEST

DURING RUSH WEEK.

Our long experience with W&L men enables us to soundly advise
and fill all your complete clothing requirements in the beginning

and throughout the school year.

other services.

You, as a student of W&L, hold the priviledge of an open charge ac-
count, either billed direct to you or to your home, or both, whatever
the case may be. We hope you will make use of this and our many

We cordially invite your correspondence on particular apparel prob-

lems that you may have. You may be assured of our personal and
prompt attention to each and every inquiry made, and in addition,
we will gladly forward our catalogue to you on request.

“Where the friendly atmosphere of the W@L campus prevails.”

Lexington, Virginia

™\

 

 

 

 
 

   
 
   
 
 

 
  

: — = J : J , " é
is “a a aa

the College Inn marks celebration of the Five Star Generals’
undefeated season.

Historic Lee Chapel, burial place of Robert E. Lee, to be restored through donations —
from the Ford Motor Company Fund. yy 3 .
Fad e —
s ike a ° ae
SRE

Campus Photo-Review fi’ Bae

vf
i

  

Chancellor Francis P. Gaines opens Civil War Centennial in Chapel Ceremony.

Dean W. W. Pusey
appointed Dean in 1960

   

NTL

LARA S

 

 

Famous British historian Arnold Toynbee visits W&L. |

Coach Lee McLaughlin leads —— : : ; c
Generals to undefeated season. The Brothers Four entertain at Fancy Dress Cocktail Party.

Len

g*y’

ee Se ee

 

 

eS as ae

The ‘*13” Club initiates new members. Construction begins on new Science facilities and Frosh Dormitory.
 

:

THE RING-TUM PHI

Page 5

 

Rhodes Scholar Comments
On British And U.S. Education

(Continued from page 3)
lecture courses—that literal adher-
ence to the class assignments that
are made fulfills his obligations as
a student and as a human being.
And, of course, nothing could be a
more improper view of education.

The case of the above Harvardian
is a good example of the tendency
which exists for Americans to feel
that Oxford’s great reputation is un-
justified. And while the reputation
may not be unjustified, it is mislead-
ing.

It is misleading because the stu-
dent who comes to Oxford expecting
an atmosphere of intense intellectual

stimulation, stimulating lectures,
and stimulating subjects will be dis-
appointed.

The atmosphere is almost the an-
tithesis of that. One will find rather
that what Oxford offers, basically, is
merely a wealth of great books, plen-
ty of people with whom to discuss
them and time to read.

This doesn’t sound like much,
perhaps, but its efficacy depends
upon an atmosphere which has
grown up here over the seven cen-
turies of its existence and which
cannot be adequately described to
be one who has not lived in it. A
supreme maxim here might be that
it is better to analyze one problem
lucidly, to answer one question
thoroughly than to do many mere-
ly adequately.

It should also be added, by way
of summary and conclusion, that
the greatest advantage of study in
Europe for an American are not
those derived from formal education

 

Webster Abridges Past
(Continued from page 3)

the hypocrisy of forcing a student
to pay $60 for certain “lecture”
courses when better material can be
found in a $6 textbook.

It is hoped that the University will
make some positive changes in the
present curriculum. Perhaps the
University, non incautus futuri, may
even dare to take some untred steps.
instead of nervously following in the
footsteps of certain northern schools.

 

NOTICE
All members of Floor Committee
are to wear conventional dress to
the Concert.

but those which come from exposure
to other attitudes, other people who
possess different assumptions from
the ones he has been accustomed
to, tacitly and often unconsciously.

In general, study abroad—whether
in Britain or Europe—makes a more
objective view of the U.S. possible,
and both its strengths and weakness-
es become more visible, more mean-
ingful, and more important.

It is, in short, an experience of
such educational significance that
no one who has the opportunity
should fail to grasp it.

 

Dr. Marshall W. Fishwick To Lecture In Germany
On Fulbright Fellowship from April to August, ’62

Dr. Marshall W. Fishwick, pro-
fessor of American Studies at Wash-
ington and Lee, has been awarded
a Fulbright fellowship for lecturing
in Germany in 1962, Dean William
W. Pusey, I, has announced.

Dr. Fishwick will help establish
two new seminar courses in Ameri-
can society and thought and Ameri-
ican art and architecture at the
Johann Gutenberg University in
Mainz, Germany. He will be in Ger-
many from April to August, 1962.

Dr. Fishwick will also lecture at
other German universities and will
take part in a summer seminar on
American literature at Nice, France.

 

The Fulbright lectureship, award-
ed through the Department of State,
is the second such grant received
by Dr. Fishwick in three years. In
1958 he took part in a similar pro-
gram in Denmark.

Dr. Fishwick, 37, a prolific author
of books dealing mainly with the
South, joined the Washington and
Lee faculty in 1949. He holds de-
grees from the University of Vir-
ginia, the University of Wisconsin,
and Yale University. He is a native
of Roanoke.

Dr. Fishwick’s latest books are:
Virginia, a New Look at the Old Do-
minion, and Lee’s Photographer.

 

 

 

 

 

We Deiver

 

 

 

CONGRATULATIONS SENIORS!

 

Don’t Forget To Store

Your Winter Clothing at

University Cleaners

Your Campus Neighbor

Call HO 3-3622

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Ted’s Steak House

Finest Foods
Choice Meats

w
SUNDAY DINNERS

Route 60 Buena Vista

SSHSHSHSSSSSSSSSSSOSESEECEES
Seovesssaeeeseeeeeeeeees

 

Loeee eee eeeaeeeeedesegenernseses nse gd eg sies

WE WAN’ FOU TO

GET HHMILIARS
. 2

3
%
%
%
%
%
%
%
%
%
RA
%
: :
%
%
*

%

%
t :
%
%
:
. > Z
% 4
%
%
ye eo, =
*% ;
% aha!
+ ane
%
* é
* |
:
%
% . et,
%
: Yes, we want you to get familiar with the friendly PERSONAL
%
:
%

 

ATTENTION we strive to give every customer of this bank!

Banking here is quick, convenient, and we are always glad to
discuss your financial problems in confidence with you. Why not
open your account in Lexington with us?

Rockbridge National Bank

Member F.D.LC.

The Bank with the Big Clock
fobobeletetotetetoboeletnbobol ceo detsoedstofofoltedestetolsedededetotoesesteedestoboetee

thee

SAUAUUNVONAUUUUUUAEAEUAEUAAEA A

€

SLU) IULLNNNQUUUUUUUUUQSQUU00U00UULNGQ000000UULG Annee UUUUEAQOOEEEUUOUOOQOOOEUUUUEGOSOEOOUUUUEEAOSEE EU UTA

Chomas,
Lid.

“NEXT TO DOC’S”

SEAS vy rt “

 

 

‘,..in appreciation of the patronage given me during
this past year and to welcome next year’s freshmen”

Gant Shirts, Bass Wegins, Baracuta Rainwear, Byford Hose, Imported Shetlands

(UUUINQOUQNQQ000000000000000000000008000000000000000S0000NE0GUEOOGAOOOGSOEOUOOOOEOGOOOAAOOEOUGGANOUUAOUOOOOUAGO EASA

TRADITIONALLY
FINE

CLOTHING

TOM BAKER, W&L Class of ’55

STULL LLL
Page 6

39 To Receive Commissions;

Col. Anderson To Give Address

(Continued from page 1)
East Command in Toyko for duty in
the G-3 section as Chief of the
Japanese Repatriation Branch.

Returning to the United States in
1950, Col. Anderson attended the
Command and General Staff College
at Fort Leavenworth, Kansas, which
was followed by an assignment to
the Office of Assistant Chief of Staff,
G-3, Department of the Army. In
1954 he became a military assistant
to the Assistant Secretary of the
Army.

Colonel Anderson went to Europe
in 1955, where he served as Com-
manding Officer of the 6th Infantry’s
3rd Batallion in Berlin until 1957.

Colonel Anderson will give the
formal address on Friday morning
to guests and cadets, prior to the
formal presentation of Commissions.

Thirty-seven seniors will be com-
missioned 2nd lieutenants, United
States Army Reserve, with one
senior, James W. Shugart, III, of
Fort Worth, Texas, receiving a
Regular Army Commission.

Those men receiving Reserve
Commissions are: C. Calvin Adams,
Jr., of Tallulah, Louisiana; J. Har-
vey Allen, Jr., of Fort Worth, Texas;
Charles C. Bowie, Jr., of San Beni-
to, Texas; J. Alfred Broaddus, Jr.,
of Knoxville, Tennessee; A. Clay-
ton Bryan, Jr., of Lookout Mountain,
Tennessee; Charles L. Campbell of
West Hartford, Connecticut; David
F. Cook of Montclair, New Jersey;
John R. Farmer of Montgomery,
Alabama; Harold J. Fischel of Port

R. Kent Frazier of New York, New
York; Edward J. Gay, Ill, of New
Orleans, Louisiana; Perry L. Gordon
of Rochester, New York; James H.
Hammersley of Tuvedo Park, New
York; William H. Heald of Cincin-
nati, Ohio; Roger D. Holden of
Newport News, Virginia; Robert
Holley of Moorestown, New Jersey;
John H. Karrah, III, of Bronxville,
New York; Edward B. Ladd of
Mobile, Alabama; Elwin W. Law,
Jr., of Thomasville, Georgia; George
F. Marshall, Il, of New York, New
York.

William B. McWilliams of Birm-
ingham, Alabama, Patrick O. Need-
ham of Fort Worth, Texas; Lewis
P. Nelson, III, of Culpeper, Virginia;
George P. Pardington, II, of Houma,
Louisiana; Robert K. Park, II, of
Ravenswood, Virginia; Donald H.
Partington of Culpeper, Virginia;
Richard D. Rance of New Rochelle,
New York; Don M. Sallinger of
Dallas, Texas; Richard S. Sharlin of
Washington, D.C.; Nathan P. B.
Simpson of Tampa, Florida; John J.
Soper, Jr., of Kansas City, Missouri;
Peter B. Straub of Webster Groves,
Missouri; Bob A. Street of Oklahoma
City, Oklahoma; Robert F. Sykes, of
Margate, New Jersey; James A.
Vann, III, of Birmingham, Alabama;
William F. Willes of Fort Pearce,
Florida; and Frank B. Wolfe, IU,
of Tulsa, Oklahoma.

In addition, one United States
Naval Reserve Commission to the
rank of Ensign will be given to
William E. McCardell, Jr., of Norfolk,
Virginia.

 

Washington, Nek York.

Agelasto To Head UCA Next Year

Pete Agelatso, a Phi Psi ris-
ing senior has been elected to
succeed Malcolm Brownlee as
president of the University

Christian Association.

Other newly-elected officers are
Mac McKay, a Phi Kap rising junior,
vice-president; Mark Whitehead, a
KA rising senior, secretary; and
Keith Carr, a Beta rising junior,
treasurer.

Ashley Wiltshire, a Delt rising
junior, will head the committee in
charge of the newly-instituted Sem-
inars in Religion next year. The
seminars will include panel discus-
sions on topics of current interest,
such as the popular discussions on
sit-ins held this year.

Community Service by the UCA
will be handled by Phil Farnsworth,
KA rising sophomore, and George
Spaulding, Phi Kap rising sopho-
more. Community service programs
will include assisting in the con-
struction of houses for the poor and
handing out food parcels in needy
areas.

Jay Smith and Walt McManus,
both Phi Psi rising sophomores, will
supervise Boys’ Club work next
year. The UCA has been particularly

 

Danforth Workshop

Four members of the Washington
and Lee faculty will participate
this summer in a three-week Work-
shop at Colorado Springs, Colo.,
sponsored by the Danforth Founda-
tion.

The purpose of the workshop is
“to provide for intensive study of
ways and means of raising the level
of excellence in such aspects of
the campus community as curricu-
lum, administration-faculty-student
relationships, counseling, evaluation,
and religion and values in regard to
educational objectives.”

Washington and Lee participants
will be Dr. Sidney Coulling, assist-
ant professor of English, Dr. E. C.
Griffith, head of the department of
economics, Dr. E. P. Turner, Jr.,
newly apointed head of the depart-
ment of physics, and Dr. W. W.
Pusey, Dean of the College.

Twenty-seven liberal arts colleges
will be represented at the workshop,
including Kenyon, Oberlin, Smith
and Swarthmore Colleges and Emory
and Washington Universities.

active in organizing sports activities
for local boys.

Ken Lane, a Phi Delt rising sopho-
more, will be in charge of UCA-
sponsored worship service next year.
He will organize the Christmas and
Easter services and plans to arrange
regular weekly services with visiting
speakers next year.

Dan Jenifer, a rising sophomore,
will direct the mountain missions
program next year. He will lead
volunteer students who conduct
Sunday School classes in small
churches in the Rockbridge area.

The UCA executive committee met
at Rockbridge Baths last week to
evaluate the progress of their or-
ganization and to redefine its goals.
“It is believed that such a re-
evaluation is necessary,” said Age-
lasto, “in order tht the UCA and
it program may be received on cam-
pus free from the label of over-
pious evangelism.”

“Next year,’ Agelasto added,
“more emphasis will be placed upon
discussion groups concerning issues
of campus importance. There will
also be a new concentration on com-
munity service projects and Boys’
Club work”

Each denomination in town will
have a representative on the UCA
next year: Bill Smith, a rising SAE
junior; Craig Distlehorst, a rising
junior; Dan Balfour, a Sigma Nu
rising junior; Bob Brewer, a Sigma
Nu rising sophomore; and Tommy

THE RING-TUM PHI

(Continued from page 3)
have dreamlike visions of Phi Beta
Kappa or ODK, but slowly, but
surely he will learn those profound
truths about the best laid plans of
mice and men. He will come to him-
self and realize the disastrous re-
sults of all work and no play. At
long last he will come to realize
where he is. He will find his true
and rightful place in the catbird’s
seat.

It goes without saying that quick
as a flash he will beat a hasty re-
treat from those paths he has fol-
lowed. Much the worse for the wear
and sadder but wiser he will seek
out those paths of life wherein there
is true happiness. He will search
far and wide for members of the
fair sex who will reward his at-

 

Law Students Receive
Grants For Next Year

Three Washington and Lee law
students have been awarded gradu-
ate fellowships for further legal
study at New York University and
the University of Virginia, Dean
Charles P. Light, Jr., has announced.

Edwin Michale Masinter of Balti-
more will hold a fellowship in the
Graduate Division of the New York
University School of Law, while
William C. Miller of Ponte Vedra
Beach, Fla., will hold a fellowship
in New York University’s civil law
program, which provides for one
year’s study in New York and one
year abroad.

Nicholas H. Rodriguez of Magnolia,
Del., has received a fellowship for
graduate study in law at the Univer-
sity of Virginia School of Law. Rod-
riguez, who graduated summa cum
laude in February, will serve also as
a special lecturere at Washington
and Lee during the 1961-62 school
year during the absence of Prof.
Robert E. R. Huntley, who will
conduct graduate study at Harvard.

 

Sigma Delta Chi Elects
Roy Goodwin for ’61-’62

Roy Goodwin, KA rising senior,
has been elected president of the
Washington and Lee University
chapter of Sigma Delta Chi, profes-
sional journalism fraternity, for
1961-62.

Other officers for the new year
are Charles Via, Kappa Sig, vice-
president; Bob Holland, Lambda Chi,
secretary; and Richard Kelly, Pi
Kap, treasurer.

New initiates for the chapter in-
clude Robert J. O’Brien; Robert Hol-
ley, DU; and Clarence Renshaw, Phi
Kap.

 

 

TETLOW
TV Service

221 S. Main HO 3.2841

 

Edwards, a Phi Kap rising junior.

 

 

 

 

 

(7

 

Store Your Winter Clothes
With Us

Fully Insured
PAY NEXT FALL

ROCKBRIDGE LAUNDRY

and

DRY CLEANERS

)

 

 

 

y)

 

 

Lexington
Laundro Matic

209 S. Main

*

HAND IRONED
SHIRTS
Dry Cleaning
Service

for your convenience

 

 

 

 

*
a
ea
*
,
.
.

.

.

.

.

°

.

.

<

5

.

.

4
4
r
4
4
4
q
4
4
4
4
4
4
a
4

 

 

*-
&
-
-
*-
*
*
-
+
+
+
*
*
*
+
*-
'?

X
Bede eofe often oeofeofesde ode oBeosfefe fool fore sferfeoeefendeeofoafo efoto offen feof obeofefeofefoobefoofefeopefeafeoh
We Feature

Dairy Products
“To get the best get Sealtest’’

over twenty different products in addition to
4 delicious Sealtest ice cream

Block and Crushed Ice §
Your favorite mixes—Ice Cold |

*
Maple-Rock Distributors, Inc.

Phone HO 3-2168
ebb ehhh ob bok fbb ledob bledeheoh hop beh heheh heehee

TEST

Brownlee Challenges Class Of ’65

tentions. He will trip the light fan-
tastic at Hollins, Sweet Briar, or
Lexington or some other place
nestled in the hills of the beautiful
Shenandoah Valley.

He will explore the briny depths
of Goshen Pass. He will invest his
talents in those courses which will
pay him the best interest for his
efforts so that he can make the
best possible grades with the least
possible work. He will learn that
you can express the fewest things
in the most words if you can use
said words right. In short, each
and every one of his actions will
be clothed in an undiluted ray of
sunshine, and he will be the proud
possessor of a new lease on life.

Last but not least I wish to ex-
press my best wishes to those who
are soon to embark upon the golden
days of their college career. I speak
from the heart in wishing that as
you wind your way through our
ivy-coated halls, the days you spend
here may be the happiest of your life.
May your life be rich as gold; your
actions, smooth as silk; your motives,
pure as pearls; your work fine as
spun glass. In other words, may
there be a silver lining back of
every cloud you see. And when
that inevitable time slowly but
surely arrives when your college
friendships soon must sever, may the
bitter end of your golden days find
you ready and willing to embark on
a bigger and better career in this
modern day and age. And may all
of you remember always that “where
ignorance is, 'tis folly to be wise.”

GRADUATION DAY

(Continued from page 2)
ber the glare of the sun in his eyes as he lay on a big warm rock
in Goshen Pass listening to tumbling water. He will remember
sitting on the grass in the Spring talking and drinking a Coke.

He will remember a lecture on Milton and a power lawn
mower droning across the wide expanse of green outside. He
will remember a fraternity room late at night filled with cigar-
ette smoke and argument and friendship.

He will remember a hillside red and gold and amber in the
Fall. He will remember a cold winter night in a car rolling
toward Lexington and a wonderful off-key song. And he will
remember running down the hill from the Library at dusk along
the slick cement walks with Spring rain falling in the dark trees.

He will remember . . . Washington and Lee.

 

 

|

   

STUDENTS ACCOUNTS INVITED HERE
Member F. D. I. C.

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Attention Freshmen!
SEE US FOR YOUR OFFICIAL GYM SUIT

 

 

 

 

 

BE
YW 2
J

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

Sporting

 

 

 

Photo Supplies—College Novelties

RES BROWN

Best wishes to graduating seniors

Goods—Gifts—Athletic Equipment

Sports Wear

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 
