Arch
€3>7a.75Ff,i
R551-

\/. /06‘

V20. .!

VOLUME CVI, No. l
MONDAY, APRIL 28, 2003

T/ee iieeeieeet eeiee of Washington eeee’ Lee Ueeeeerreh ieieee 7897 (D

So LONG, LEE’s ASHES

City council
spot holds
Elrod hopeful

BY ERIN JULIUS
SPORTS EDITOR

MimiElrod intendstovie forthevacant spotinLexington’s
City Council when current council member Pat Mayerchak
resigns. Elrod is Washington and Lee’s Director of Summer
Scholars and widow of former president John Elrod.

The citywill not hold elections butwillbe accepting letters of
interestintheposition1mtil5p.m.
on May 15. Lexington’s charter
requires that the coimcil choose
its new member. In ameeting on
June5,theoouncilwiIlchooseﬁurn
the pool of those who have ex-
pressed written interest.

City Manager Jon
Ellestad said that, in addition
to Elrod, another woman has
verbally indicated interest and
he is, “anticipating at least
two letters of interest,” he
said.

Elrod wants to serve on
the city council because she
is, “interested in government
and how it works.”

Elrod has been involved in different organizations in Lex-
ington and is now interested in breaking into city government;
The variety of organizations in which Elrod has served include
the Rockbridge Mental Health Association, The Rockbridge
Area Community Services Board and Project Horizon

Elrod is, “very interested in how land is used in the city,
and in the budget process and how funds are spent,” she
said. “Because the General Assembly has made cuts, the city
has few choices-—it’s a matter of what ca.I1 be cut with a
limited atfect on the population.”

Elrod has been a Lexington resident since 1984 and
said that she, “wants to serve the citizens of this commu-
nity in that way and would look forward to working with
those people and Ellestad and the mayor.”

.  ELROD, PAGE 2

Local sunless tanning salon does not follow state regultio

SREY.-\ BANERJEE / T/re RirIglimP/71
ELROD

jar BROOKS / The Ring-mm Pin’
approximately 100 years old had been slated for cutting for nearly four years and have
been dead for two. They posed a risk to the lawn and Lee Chapel. Two 25 foot
Sycamores replaced the removed trees.

I

IF A TREE FALLS WHEN NO STUDENTS ARE LISTENING, DO WE HEAR Ir? Students returning
from Spring Break might have noticed a slight change in the landscape. Two Ash
trees were cut down over the last undergraduate break. The trees, thought to be

BY ALLISON PERRY
SENIOR ST.\l*'l" \‘\"RlTER

Three Rockbridge area tanning
salons stay busy keeping local resi-
dents and students a golden bronze,
no matter what the season. And the
ﬁnancial cost is minimal. But the long
term costs may be high.

A study by The American Cancer
Society shows that “people 35 or
younger who used the beds regularly
had a melanoma risk eight-fold higher
than people who never used tanning
beds.”

In addition, tanners may put them-
selves at more risk if a taming salon
is not up to regulation standards.

Beyond Video and The Tannery
are located within a block of each
other in Lexington. Paradise Isle has
occupied more than one location on
Main Street in Buena Vista.

The local salons try to keep their
prices competitive. And it only takes
a few tanning sessions to get a good
base tan. ‘

A person tanning can buy one
session for $5 at The Tannery and Be-
yond Video. Paradise Isle charges $6
for a single session.

But Beyond Video is the only sa-
lon that does not follow all of the state
regulations. Beyond Video does not
provide eyewear except through sale.
Even then, a customer must ask for

the eyewear. The employees do not
mention the eyewear to the custom-
ers.

Passed in 1990, the Code of Vir-
ginia, Title 59.1-3 10.5, section B says,
“Before each use of a tanning device,
the operator shall provide the cus-
tomer with properly sanitized protec-
tive eyewear that protects the eyes
from ultraviolet radiation and allows
adequate vision to maintain balance.”

Attorney Tom Winn, with
Woods, Rogers, and Hazlegrove,
PL.C., said “shall” means the owner
must provide the customer with
eyewear. The word “shall” allows for
no loop holes.

The Tannery and Paradise Isle

both provide sanitized protective
eyewear for each tanning unit. Cus-
tomers are also required to clean their
own beds at Beyond Video.

“I got creeped out by the fact that
it is in a video store,” junior Maren
Garval said. “And the whole idea of
people cleaning their own beds is kind
of sketchy.”

Beyond Video would not com-
ment on its practices.

There is currently little regulation
of tanning beds and tanning salons.
The FDA requires a tanning bed user
to wear protective eye goggles. There
are also several federal regulations for
advertising of equipment and tanning
lotions. But state regulations for tan-

Management c ass scores with ad campaign

BY KYLE WAss '
.-\SSOCl.\'l'E liDlTOR

Washington and Lee students from the Management
303 class traveled to Charlotte, N.C. this weekend to compete
regionally and present their advertising plan for the Toyota
Matrix to judges from the American Advertising Federation
(AAF), and potentially move on to a Los Angeles competi-
tion in June. The group placed second in the region.

ThisistheﬁrstyearthatWashingtonandLeehashada
chapter of the AAF, and they are now involved in the National
Student Advertising Competition Challenge to “present a recom-
mendation to Toyota forimplementing a special Matrix marketing
and communication strategy [to target] the youth market. . .the
campaignobjectiveistore-energizeMatrixinﬂiemarketp1aoeWit;h
fIeshideasthatwﬂlrevitalizeconsumerinterest,”accordingtothe
AAF’s website. This year’s corporate sponsor is Toyota Matrix.
Atterregional competitions, sixteen colleges ﬁomacross the coun-
try are selected to present their campaigns to a “panel of industry
executives at the AAF National Conference.” Five Washington
and Lee students were selected as group leaders by the class.
These students — Mark Barker, Kelly Sugarman, Grant Dragan,
Sarah Sturtz and Beth Creasey — competed in Charlotte for a
chance to go Los Angeles in June for the National Competition.
There, they made a 20-minute presentation on their advertising
campaign forjudges ﬁomtheAAF aswellasrepresentativesﬁom
Saatchi & SaatchiAdver1ising. May White said the ﬁrm is,
“one of the best advertising ﬁrms in the world”

Washington and Lee’s presentation placed second in the
region, coming in ahead of last year’s regional winner, and
competing against the University of North Carolina Chapel
Hill, the University, the University of South Carolina, the Uni-
versity of Virginia, North Carolina State University, Wﬂliarn
and Mary, and Fayetteville Technical Community College. One
of the marketing professors, Professor Amanda Bower, said
that “the closeness of the race was emphasized prior to the
announcements of the winners, and the judges needed twice

the traditional deliberation time to ﬁnally determine a winner.”
Once UVA was armounced as the winner of the competition,
Washington and Lee students received praise from the repre-
sentatives at Saatchi & Saatchi, who said they were going to
use one of W&L’s techniques in the future. According to
Bower, judges also said that “most of the people in their own
agencies don’t present as well as our students.” ,

Students in the Management 303 class, taught by
Professor Bower and Professor MacDonald, and ofﬁcially
titled Integrated Marketing Communications, came up with
this presentation for advertising the Toyota Matrix to a
target market — 20-to-30-year-olds, the rules speciﬁed. First,
work began by “researching who actually was buying the
Matrix so we could better understand their buying pat-
terns and general lifestyles,” said Management student
William Litton. The class came up with the slogan “Give
New Meaning,” as well as the idea that the Toyota Matrix
gives consumers “Room to Move” in various ways. Litton
said that the class further “developed ﬁrnny deﬁnitions
for regular words, such as Tailgating, Garage Band, and
Therapy. . .our sarcastic deﬁnitions provide humor but also
develop a sort of novelty for consumers to follow through-
out the campaign as they wonder what word Matrix will
spoof next.” Bower said that the “students were taught to
do account planning, which is a relatively new approach
to performing research ingadvertising, and is a very new
approach for ad agencies in the U.S.”

The Toyota Matrixproject gave the class a chance to
focus the entire term on one project, and study all aspects
of the process, “from surveys to industry analysis, photo
shoots to test drives, late nights at computers with take-
out Chinese, and one lucky member of the team making a
mad dash to Roanoke to get our plansbook in just in time,”
said Management student Katie F rusti.

Kelly Sugarman called the group’s performance “re-
ally impressive,” and Bower said she is “so proud [she]
can’t stand it.”

No decision made about
Spring Term, calendar

Administrators and faculty
are still debating the ﬁrture of
Spring Tenn and W&L’s current
Imdergraduate acadmic calendar.
Burish said no decision was made
during the undergraduate spring
break “Facultyand administrators
are collecting information on vari-
ous calendar options that have
been identiﬁed,” he said ‘‘I arnnot
leaning toward any solution; I am
looking forward to learning more
about the infomration being col-
lected and analyses being done.”

Al Sharpton to speak

Michael Denbow, Political
Chairman of Mock Convention,
announced last Tuesday that
Rev. Al Shaipton will speak dur-
ing the Kick-Off festivities
Thursday, May 8.

Student D. U.I. rams
into light post

On Monday, April 21 , 2003
a student rammed his Chevrolet
Tahoe into a light post located
in front of the Parking Garage
on East Denny Circle. The dam-
age to University Property will
be paid for by the student.

All stories from staff reports.

LIGHT, BRIGHT.
This sunless
tanning bed at
Paradise Isle
Tanning salon in
Buena Vista
complies with
state health and
safety regulations
regarding sunless
tanning.

ning beds vary from state to state.
Some states have no regulations at
all. At this time, 27 states have laws
that go beyond federal regulations.

jar BRRS / beRz'r1,g-lu/IIP/11

Vrrginia’s regulations for tanning
beds and salons are light. Most 01
the regulations state the requirements

SEE TANNING, PAGE 2

Committee paints W&L green

BY CHRIS LAUDERMAN
STAFF WRITER

Students and faculty are increasingly
becoming involved in campus recycling.
In l999,theAssociateCollegesoftheSouth
created an environmental initiative. Wash-
ingtonandLeeisone ofseveral competi-
tive, private colleges that forrnACS.

The initiative that ACS proposed
created the Enviromnental Planning and
Management Committee composed of
faculty and student interns. Professor
Bob Akins of the Physics department

was the original Faculty Fellow. Pro- '

fessor Theresa Hanlon has succeeded
him in this position.

President Elrod felt strongly that
Washington and Lee should have a 25
percent reduction in feasible waste. He
believed reducing waste would greatly
help the community. The most recent
report shows an 18 percent reduction.

StartedbyHelenDownes ’02,at:eam
of ACS interns began placing recycling
binsinallW&Lresidentialbuildings. Each
hall selects a resident to take recyclables
to the ﬁont of the Co-op on Recycling
Mondays and Fridays. From the collec-
tion bins, the Physical Plant takes the
recyclables to a recycling plant in
Rockbridge County. Campus statistics
show that white paper recyclables are the
most successful. Alurnimrm and plastic
have proven more diﬂicult to collect.

Nick Gorham ‘O5, one of the ACS
interns, plays an active role in the re-

cycling process. He goes through the
dorms and makes sure that the recycle
bins are clean. At the beginning of
the year, he established a relationship
with all of the dorm counselors.
Gorham said, “From where we were,
we have come a long way. We hope
to get a little better every year.” Next
year ‘the bond between freshman
dorms and recycling will become even
more prevalent as Gorham will be serv-
ing as a donn counselor.

The faculty on the committee is
just as active as the students. They
work closely with the students on more
issues than just recycling. Hanlon has
a strong personal interest in the sub-
ject. She is in charge of composting
at Washington and Lee. Chris Wise,
head of the grounds crew, keeps track
of what happens with the compost
pile. Four men collect the compost
for the university. Every night at 7:30,
an average of 150 pounds of compost
is collected. This compost consists
of uncooked vegetable scraps col-
lected from the campus.

Professor Akins set guidelines
with the original architects of the Uni-
versity Commons in hopes of making
it a green building from the start. He
made sure to keep Woods Creek in
consideration. That is why the en-
trance to the commons from the back
is located in its current position. En-
ergy efﬁcient materials were to be in

SEE GREEN, PAGE 2

  

vwrw «' ~ " ’'‘‘i -4 1" '\7::\u"
JAMIRI ‘.1. s,,,l§Nt.t1Vr’&“ I"'_gdv-z~['v
“-.".""1»'5il‘i:‘?<‘\$§1"'»;§3M ‘.4.  %*~"“""*= ‘ ~

PAGE !lAY ll  .

‘ Lexington
Weekly

 

Forecast
Monday- Surmy, 79/52

Tuesday- Partly Cloudy, 80/49
Wednesday- Partly Cloudy, 71/50
Thursday- Partly Cloudy- 75/51
Friday- Partly Cloudy, 75/ 5 1
Saturday- Scattered Showers, 73/51

Sunday- Partly Cloudy- 74/53

 

MONDAY, APRIL 28.

J ava-Palooza in the BDG quad, 7:30-10:30. Catch-A-
Fire (student band from University of Maryland) will play.

TUESDAY, Aprur. 29.

‘Mesa Hispanica’ Spanish House dirmer in the D-hall,
6:00p.m

University Wind Ensemble concert, 8 :00 p.m., Lenfest
Center.

WEDNI-:sDAY, APRIL 30.

Rick Bass, author of “The Hermit’s Story,” will speak
in room 1 14, University Center as part of the Environmen-
tal Series Luncheon Program, 12:00 noon. _ V

Come watch a house resident prepare a popular Span-
ish dish and then sample the delicious product. Not a full
meal so eat before you come. Spanish House, 6:00 p.m.

Narcotics Anonymous meeting. Open to students,
faculty and staff and the local community. R.E. Lee Epis-
copal Church Upstairs Conference Room (across from
Fairfax Lounge). Meeting ends in time to attendAA meet-
ing in Law School, 6:30-7:30 p.m.

THURSDAY, MAY 1.

Nature writer Rick Bass, author of The Hennit’s Story,
will read from his work in Northen Auditorium. Sponsored
by The Glasgow Endowment, The Environmental Studies
Program and the Outing Club, 4:00 p.m.

“Gimme Shelter,” directed by Albert and David
Maysles (USA, 1970). Rated PG Troubadour Cinema.
Shown today only as part of the Rock Documentary Fihn
Festival, 7:30 p.m. .

Alumni Reunion Weekend, All day.

FRIDAY, MAY 2.

Alumni Reunion Weekend, All day.

“The Last Waltz,” directed by Martin Scorsese (USA,
1978). Rated PG Troubadour Cinema. Shown today only,
7:30pm

SATURDAY, MAY 3.

Alumni Reunion Weekend, All day.

“This is SpinalTap,” directedby Rob Reiner (USA, 1984).
Rated R. Troubadour Cinema. Shown today only, 7:30 p.m.

“Sylvia” —— A Studio Production. Written by A.R.
Gurney and directed by Neal Willetts ’03. Johnson The-
atre, Lenfest Center, 8:00 p.m.

SUNDAY, MAY 4.

“Sylvia” — A Studio Production. Written by A.R.
Gurney and directed by Neal Willetts ’03. Johnson The-
atre, Lenfest Center, 2:00 p.m. and 8:00 p.m.

Email phi@wlu.edu with 24/7 events.

 

A notice from
The Executive Committee
Of THE STUDENT BODY

Gerald M. Titus, III
President

Kempton W. Presley
Vice President

Helen B. Hughes
Secretary

April 2, 2003

Summary of Executive Committee HonorActivity
for the 2002-2003 Academic Year

Investigations: 6
Withdrawals in face of a Closed Hearing: 2
Guilty Verdicts in Closed Hearings: 3

Student Body Hearings: 0

email news briefs to <5».-

iii

1

at

  it 1
NOTES.

  

Atkins named Commons director

Leroy C. “Buddy” Atkins, Washington and Lee
University’s associate dean of students since 1986, has
been appointed Acting Director of the John W. Elrod Uni-
versity Commons for the 2003-2004 academic year.

Atkins will report to W&L’s Dean of Students and will
be responsible for coordinating a management team han-
dling student activities, food service, maintenance, the book-
store, security and career services in the operations of the
University Commons. As acting director, he will also work
with the director of student activities, the director of leader-
ship development and student leaders to develop a vibrant
student activities program for the facility.

New University Collections
office recieves director

Peter Dun Grover, a former executive director of the
Association for the Preservation of Virginia Antiquities,
has been named by Washington and Lee University as its
first director of University Collections. The appointment
is effective July 1.

Grover, a national leader in museum administration
and historic preservation, will oversee the use, display,
security, conservation and expansion of W&L’s multi-rnil-
lion dollar collections of fine art, decorative arts, historic
and archaeological artifacts spanning four centuries.

ABA President to deliver Law Schools
Commencement Address

Robert J . Grey Jr., president-elect of the American Bar
Association, will deliver the commencement address at
Washington and Lee University’s School of Law on Sun-
day, May 1 1, at 2:30 p.m. on the University’s Front Lawn.

A 1976 alumnus of W&L’s School of Law, Grey is a
partner with Hunton & Williams in Richmond and is one
of Virginia’s most prominent attorneys. In mid-2004, he
will assume the presidency of the 4 1 0,000-member ABA,
the largest voluntary professional group in the world.

Nature writer Bass will speak

Nationally known nature writer Rick Bass will read
from his new collection of stories, “The Herrnit’s Story,” at
Washington and Lee University on May 1 at 4:00 p.m. in
Northen Auditorium. A private dinner with faculty will
follow.

Bass’ weeklong visit to the W&L campus is spon-
sored by the Glasgow Endowment, the Enviromnental
Studies Program and the Outing Club.

Meriggi named Unsung General

Washington and Lee University senior Jeff Meriggi
has been awarded the John W. Elrod Unsung General of
the Year Award by the University’s Celebrating Student
Success committee. I

The award carries a $1,000 stipend, to be split be-
tween Meriggi and the campus or local organization of his
choice. Meriggi, who received an engraved Jefferson cup
in recognition for his contributions to the University in
the category of Recreation earlier in the year, will also
have his name engraved on a plaque to be displayed in
the new John W. Elrod University Commons this fall.

Wasserman is new J-School Knight Chair

Edward Wasserman, a veteran reporter, editor and
media CEO, has been named by Washington and Lee
University to hold its Knight Chair in journalism eth-
rcs.

Wasserman will succeed Louis W. Hodges, who has
been W&L’s Knight Professor since the chair was estab-
lished in 1996 with a $1.5 million grant from the John S. and
James L. Knight Foundation.

 

BY JAMAY LIU
BROWN DAILY l'lERALD (Brow U.)

(U -WIRE) PROVIDENCE, R.I. -
With the number of cases of Severe
Acute Respiratory Syndrome rising
daily across the world, universities
have been struggling with the ques-
tion of how to handle study abroad
programs in SARS-affected regions.

Some schools recalled students
already abroad, while others cancelled
summer programs. Some schools
chose to leave the decision to stu-
dents after sending advisory letters
and in some cases, face masks.

Syracuse University was one of
the first to cut short its program, re-
calling 30 students from China and
Hong Kong in early April because “it
was a situation we couldn’t control,”
said Ryan Williams, assistant director
of admission at Syracuse. Students
completed the first two parts of the
three-module program — ﬁeldwork
and class time — but missed out on
the internship component, “the most
interesting part of the abroad experi-
ence,” Williams said.

Last Wednesday, the Education
Abroad Program for the University of
California campuses decided to recall
44 students studying abroad in
Beijing, said Bruce Harma, director of
communications for EAP.

Hanna said the EAP made its de-
cision after two staff members on site
in Beijing recommended the suspen-
sion of the program based on two
concerns — “emerging news that the
Chinese government was systemati-
cally withholding information and
deaths among a younger population.”
A conﬁrmed case of SARS at Peking
University and cases rumored in sur-
rounding neighborhoods also con-
tributed to the decision to recall stu-
dents, Hanna said.

Though students abroad were
asked to leave immediately, “they are
adults, and we can only advise and
recommend,” Hanna said. But he pre-
dicted that, unlike situations in the
past where students decided to stay
in politically unstable countries such
as Israel despite advice to leave, most
students would probably heed the
EAP’s recent advice because of the

Mom, Mm 24, 200:”

Study abroad programs struggle with SARS  

“unknown” nature of the disease. If
students do decide to stay, they will
have to sign a contract acknowledg-
ing they will be on their own,’ Harma
said. .

According to William Quandt,
vice provost for international affairs
at the University of Virginia, state in-
stitutions have a harder time than pri-
vate ones because decisions are more
“political.”

UVA cancelled its four summer
programs in China and Hong Kong
alter the Centers for Disease Control
and Prevention and the US. Depart-
ment of State put a travel warning on
China in early April recommending all
U. S. citizens defer non-essential travel
to the country. Earlier in the year, UVA
determined new policy that stated it
would heed any travel warnings
placed on speciﬁc countries.

“I hated doing it — it was a ter-
rible disappointment to the students,”
Quandt said. “However, if something
had happened, the university could
be accused of being negligent of State
advice. For private universities, this
isn’t as much of a concern.”

ELROD, FROM PAGE 1

She currently attends city council meetings regularly and is,

She said that the work that the city council does is,
“inspiring” and that she has, “a tremendous amount of
respect for the people on the city council, they are trying
to make Lexington the best city it can be.”

Elrod says that she is, ‘Very committed to this city. . ..I’m
going to live out my life here,” she said

“veiyhopeﬁillhatlwillbethepersontheypicktoserve.”Shewas -

also defeated by Ben CLir1e in Novernber’s state delegate race.

Mayerchak’s resignation on May 31 comes because he is I

moving out ofLexington’s city limits. Histeimexpires onDecem-
ber31, 2006 andwhoeveris appointedtothepositionbythe city
council will serve until that date.

GREEN, FROM PAGE 1

cluded in the Commons as well as a
monitor that shows energy consump-
tion for the building. Nick Gorham said,
“ProfessorAkins- is amazing. He makes

Rockbridge a better place single
handedly.” The project has been pro-
ductive to this point, but waste still
needs to be reduced by another seven
percent. The success of the comn1it-

tee can be attributed to the effort of
the whole Washington and Lee com-
munity. The students and faculty have
come together in an astounding man-
ner to paint the campus green.

-TANNING, FROM PAGE 1

for waivers and warning signs that must be posted. Only
Title 59.1-310.5 mentions the requirement to provide pro-
tective eyewear.

Paradise Isle owner Kim Beverly thinks there should
be more regulations for tarming salons in Virginia. She
worked in a physician’s office for 20 years before she
opened Paradise Isle.

“There are no [Virginia] regulations, which I think is
wrong,” Beverly said. “It really surprised me when I de-
cided to open my business and checked with the health
department.” ‘ - ' ~ ‘l_ A v I ’

There is a national organization. for. tanning salons
called the Smart Tan Network. Butnone of the local sa-
lons are a member of this network. Local tanning beds
said that many students from Washington and Lee and
Southern Virginia University patron their salons.

“Dining November, December, and January, I get more
students,” Beverly said. “And to be honest with you,
students keep me going during those months.”

The Tarmery and Paradise Isle said that most of the
customers were female. But Beverly said that she still
attracted a large number of male students.

Junior Steve Saks said he tans at Beyond Video. Saks
says the reason he tans has nothing to do with a pressure
to look good. He just likes the way tanning makes him
feel. He also thinks that many male students tan.

“A lot of them don’t admit it, but they do [tan]” Saks
said.

TanningTruth.com guesses that around 30 million
people in North America tan indoors sometime within a
year. Many studies, like the one by the American Cancer
Society, have linked the use of tanning beds to skin can-
cer.

But research has not put tanning salons out of busi-
ness.

INS RED BY  R1103, Stills  BA

signing at $15, :55: Model ;‘}lrna'n= t3..t?95.

“You are going to die of something,” sophomore
Megan Brooks said. “It’s ﬁne as long as you don’t go in
there and fry yourself on a regular basis.”

Several students have said that they tan to feel good,
regardless of the risks. Garval now tans at Paradise Isle.

“I feel like it’s a good stress reliever, especially in the
winter,” Garval said. “ I just like lying in the sun; and I
personally think everyone looks better with a tan.”

Even burns and bad experiences from tarnring beds
do not keep some students from continuing to tan.

“I did tan in one of the super beds, unaware of how
intense the bulbs were,” Garval said. “I got the most

painful burn of my life, and it made me physically illland

incapacitated for a week.” .

Super beds are much stronger than regular tarming
beds. A person tanning in a super bed can get the same
tan as from a regnilar bed, but in fewer sessions. Some
super beds allow a person to tan for only 10 minutes, half
the time allowed in a regular bed.

Each salon offers packages ranging from 5 sessions
to 30 sessions. They also each offer a month of unlimited
tanning ranging from $30 at Paradise Isle to $44.95 at The
Tannery.

The Tannery even offers one year of unlimited tan-
ning for $300. Crystal Clark, an employee at The Tannery,
said that prices also vary depending on the time of year. '

But Beverly thinks people choose a salon based on
more than price.

“Pricing is an issue. Most people who shop around
usually tan where they can find the best price,” Beverly
said. “But I get comments such as we have a ﬁiendly
staff, are always clean, and have good bulbs.”

Despite prices and risks, many students have said
that they will continue to tan.

“For me, in the winter, it makes you feel like it’s suin-
mer,” Saks said. “And I like summer. It relaxes you. . .and
if you’re sick, it feels good too.”

Seats five, has 53 cubic
feet of iiargu space. and
is available with tan hp 1
and a 6-speed manual
shift. Even evolution A
can’! “fully explain it.
 "' 1- v 1-.. till} étﬁiitetﬁ FE’. EJEWBS till

E*{'.l§%lvll; IIIIIILIIL. §Jl.Eli' Pﬁﬁ Ml ‘Nit.

 

  

“ i}rrr.r'r'l;i{r;rcr:«.x*
OPINIONSEDIIOR
FMAr;1qRwANB@wwr3DU

* Mommy, Am 28, 2003

THE RING-TUM Par . 

PINIONS
“Patriot” Act affron o liberty

The United States has an unfor-
tunate history in times of crisis of
going too far in sacriﬁcing liberties
and rights for safety. The Alien and
Sedition Acts of John Adams’ admin-
istration, the unlawful internment of
Japanese-Americans during World
War 11, even the suspension of ha-
beas corpus by President Lincoln

 

PAGE 3

Boycott silly and
poorly targeted

So now that the military portion of Operation Who’s «
Your Baghdaddy? seems to be over, we have quite a ‘
mess to clean. You know the old rule, “You broke it,
you bought it.” It appears to apply in this situation. i

The question is, where will this money come from? I
This country is running on empty. Quite ironic in a time 
when we have acquired a sandbox so'saturated in oil .

~ Sigiiiilhoironn

Play WLUR in the Co-op

K The Co-op is a place for relaxation and
restoration. Students use the facility to re-
lax after a hard day of thinking and to re-
store their weary bodies in the morning-
Js. ah, those greasy biscuits. This is certainly

 

unquestionable with the unbeatable menu,
unreasonable prices or the breathtaking
views of the construction site that the oh-
so-comfortable-booths offer. There is one
missing element guaranteed to improve the
ambiance: music worth listening to.

could be argued to be one step too

we should all be driving SUV’s.

far. Now we are forced once more to
choose between democracy and se-
curity, and this time the catalyst is the
proposed Patriot Act, Part II.

First, some background. The

The silliest move of all is the Bush crusade to con- .
tinue cutting taxes. No one likes to pay them, but the *
White House has projected ﬁgures around $600 billion to ‘
rebuild a country that we just spent billions blowing up. ‘

However, there as been an element of the ridiculous

original Patriot Act was passed by
Congress with little opposition in the
immediate wake of September 1 1. It
gave internal investigative agencies,
most notably the FBI, a surprisingly

about recent events anyway. My favorite were the tele-
vision images of Iraqi Information Minister Mohammed
Moharnrned Saeed al-Sahhaf proclaiming victory over
that “gang of bloodsucking bastards” while the smoke
of his burning headquarters loomed in the background.

No matter what your opinion of WLUR
‘ 91.5, the student radio station is a voice of
students that showcases student talent and
interests. Why doesn’t the Co-op turn its

dials to the station? The current radio
blather is senseless and silly. Ostensibly a
for-proﬁt radio station broadcasting out of
Roanoke, one wonders why they have any
more listeners than our beloved WLUR?
The “No way news stories” and the brain-
less riddles are dumb enough, but don’t get
us started on the Disco Fridays (for the first
time in our lives we actually dread Fri-
days.)

Washington and Lee prides itself on the
ease with which students are able to join
all kinds of campus activities. The admis-
sions office and student tour guides boast
to prospective students about the dozens
of activities available—— a number which
far exceeds that appropriate to the size of
our school. The Journalism Department is
duly proud of our two newspapers, televi-
sion studio and radio station.

But, what good does a campus radio
station do if no one is able to listen to it?
The Cooperational Facility of Glory (as it
has been called) offers the perfect venue
in which to showcase student radio and
make students aware of what records
WLUR deejays are spinning. Moreover, we
bet that after students enjoy the wonders
of the campus radio station in the Co-op,
they will be more apt to turn it on in their
dorm rooms, fraternity and sorority houses

» and cars.

large amount of power to effectively

Another favorite of mine was seeing soldiers ﬂy

 
  

r of the Week

“We don’tknowtl1atyet. . . .We have amajor

cities with clear goverance.”
~Democratic presidential candidate and
former Gov. Howard Dean (D-Vt.),

ignore previously-existing rules of
evidence and surveillance. Phone
bugging and covert infonnation col-
lecting on speciﬁc individuals or
groups were allowed without a court
order so long as the agency could
prove reasonable warrant for perform-
ing the searches. This was all well and
good in the wake of a severe national
disaster. However, Congress stemly
attached a lifespan to the bill; it would
expire in a little over two years.

Now, as we approach that dead-
line, some government officials, most
prominently Attorney General John
Ashcroft and Senator Orrin Hatch (R-
Utah), want to make the law permanent,
and they would expand it so that it “. . .
would eliminate the need for federal
agents seeking secret surveillance war-
rants to show that a suspect is affiliated
with a foreign power or agent, like a ter-
rorist group,”
which is ominous
enough in and of
itself. But that is

   


CALEY ANDERSON ‘O6

PHOTO COUR'l'F.€Y ww. wlrtebaznagov

UNPATRIOTIC. Attorney Generaljohn Ashcroft is calling for a second “Patriot” Act
which would both increase the government’s power and never expire.

always had the power to remove gov-
ernments they didn’t like, but now the
government has the power to remove
citizens it doesn’t like.

But not to worry, says Barbara
Comstock, spokeslady for the DOJ.
__ “The department’s

deliberations are al-
ways undertaken
with the strongest

not all. They want
to give the law some other extremely
disturbing expanded powers.

An example? The United States
government has never had the power
to strip a citizen of his citizenship un-
less that citizen declared a clear in-
tent to abandon it (by saying so, serv-
ing in foreign government, etc.). Ac-
cording to the new proposed law, “the
intent to relinquish nationality need
not be manifested in words, but can
be inferred from conduct.” This is bad
enough, but just who, you may ask,
will do this inferring? The Department
of Justice will, and its rulings are ﬁ-
nal. This should send a chill up the
spine of any American who under-
stands the Constitution. This means
that your citizenship, even if you wish
to retain it, can be stripped away by
the government without a trial and
without any chance to recover it. In
the United States, the citizens have

commitment to our
Constitution and civil liberties.” That’s
right. You should trust your govern-
ment not to abuse the power to deport
citizens arbitrarily and without trial.
As if this were not enough, the
expanded Patriot Act would also give
the government the power to declare
any group, individual, or organization
“terrorist” without providing any evi-
dence at all to that effect. And no, this
declaration would not be in the hands
of, say, a federal court. No, instead
it’s, you guessed it, the Department
of Justice. It’s not just foreign com-
batants from Afghanistan that can be
held indefinitely without trial at
Guantanamo Bay anymore, now U.S.
Citizens can join in the fun, and all
you have to do is make the Depart-
ment of Justice dislike you. This
should sound familiar, and here’s why:
In another state that proclaimed
itself to be “democratic” at the time,

South Africa, the government had this
very same power (to label groups as
“terrorists” and jail them indeﬁnitely).
The government gave the very same
assurances to its citizens and the world
community that the power would not
be abused. But, of course, it was. Ini-
tially the government did use the
power against real terrorist groups.
But eventually, they also found it con-
venient to use the power against
groups protesting apartheid in South
Africa. Nelson Mandela, for instance,
was held for decades under this law.

To call this step towards totali-
tarianism the “Patriot Act” is one of
the most sickening things I’ve ever
heard. This proposed law is against
everything that the United States of
America was founded to stand for,
and it is a reckless abuse of govern-
mental power. Fortunately, the law is
opposed by a majority of both par-
ties in Congress (and many kudos to
the honorable Republican represen-
tatives who know a bad law when
they see it), but you can never be
too safe. Make sure your represen-
tative knows where you stand. If this
law were to pass, it would start us
down a path where even our most
sacred liberties would become vio-
lable in the name of the “war on ter-
ror.” “Patriot” act, indeed.

the University of Georgia ﬂag over the ﬁrst of Saddam’s
captured palaces. The commanders then went inside
to take their first shower in twenty days in Hussein’s

personal bathroom
with golden
showerheads.


NICK KXMSEY ‘03

But one of the —-~————;——
most ridiculous actions that stemmed from this war

came from many ofAmerica’s citizens themselves. The ‘i

self-imposed boycott of French goods has to be one of

the most childish moves of all.

To illustrate my point, imagine that somewhere in
the Bordeaux region of France on a quiet vineyard in the

3

countryside lives a man who makes wine to support his ‘J

family. He does it because his father did the same, and

his father before him, and so on for generations.

Suddenly, this man has seen his proﬁts fall drarnati- ’
cally. His wine, which had been a popular vin du table in l
the United States, has now been boycotted by his once i
loyal customers across the Atlantic. Why has this hap-'

pened? Because his government disagreed with ours. 1»
What, pray tell, does that have to do with this man

making wine in the French countryside? Nothing. Be-l
cause one country’s government made a move that our‘_
government did not like, people across the country‘
stopped buying French goods. Meanwhile, hypocriti-l

cal “journalists” like Fox’s Bill O’Reilly exacerbated the

problem by telling his viewers not to purchase any-

thing from France.

3“

But during the newsbreaks on O’Reilly s no-spin:
zone” (that still makes me chuckle), Fox anchors re-‘
ported on anti-war demonstrators here at home. So,
answer me this, if American citizens have the right to:

protest a war started by their own government, whydo

we take a completely different attitude with the French,‘

and then punish French citizens. I assure you that Presi-
dent Jacques Chirac was the last person affected by

this move.

I was also shocked to go to Starbucks and ﬁnd
that my usual blend had not been changed to Freedom
Roast. Disagree all you want, but keep your Freedom

Toast and Freedom Fries.

Supposedly, this war was fought to bring democ-
racy and a free voice to a people that had been under the
rule of a horrible man for decades. Why then are people
becoming so angry when another country’s government
exercises this same freedom of expression? You can dis-

agree with their decision, but be an adult about it.

There are many more important things to worry

about than your bottle of Mer1ot’s country of origin.

when askedbyWolfBlitzer if Iraq is
betteroffwithout Saddam

Letters to the Editor

H.

'_ ' ' ' ' As the projects coordinator of KEWL and the organizer American workplace. This does not mean we should just

“«‘”‘-~“=\"%~\   5-'5l‘\1=?‘-5'="w‘ Ant, Bunsh  In bum unaccep of the Equity Bake Sale, I readBrett Kirwan’s article (“KEWL turn the cheek and accept it. Instead, as is the case with all

i THE   Dear Editor, bakes up lies,” March 31) and felt the need to respond. We civil rights issues, the key to overcoming gender wage dis-
4 1wou1d iike to address this ietter to a specific person expected people with questions to address us at the sale. I crirnination is education.” Education also happens to be

Founder J- 53111 Slicer, 13981: or persons but 1 don’t know who they are The iibrary have to admit, we were pleasantly surprised at the overall the stated purpose of our themed bake sale.

Editor tr’ Chief Katie 3- Howon eievator doors have been painted four times in the past friendliness of the student body. Most of our customers told While 93 cents may seem like no big deal, or to people

Associate Editor Job G- Brooks two weeks because ofextrernely obj ectionabie graffiti at- us the idea was clever and effective. A few people protested like Kirwan, “no gap there,” think about that in the big

2nd Associate Edttor Kyle Wass tacking president Bur-ish_ it reappears just as fast as we and asked us what our purpose was—for anyone with ques- picture. For every dollar a man makes, I will make 93 cents in

. ,t 0Ptrtto"s Editor Brett T- Kirwan remove it, sureiy there are more constructive ways to voice tions, we had a fact sheet. The statistics are plain, are true, return. Those seven cents may seem like nothing in the
Asst Optrttorts Edttor C31oYAnders0n your criticism of university poiicies than by this kind of and contrary to the author’s statements, we did not dress context of one dollar to you, but over the course of a life;

Ar ts & Ltfo Editor Catherine C- Gn)’ behavior_ 1 know we have better ways to spend the them up in accusatory language. So why didn’t the author of time, it adds up to thousands of dollars less pay in addition

Asst Arts & Life Editor Megan Morgan university’s building maintenance do11ars_ It is most dis- “KEWL bakes up lies” come and talk to us about his reserva- to reduced savings and smaller pensions come retirement;

SPor ts Editor Erin 15- Jnnns appointing to have to bring this situation to the attention tions? We may be feminists, but we don’t bite. Even if you take Kirwan’s statistic, 98 cents, it is still an

" Asst SPor ts Editor Donny Banks of the student body V As to the statistics mentioned in Kirwan’s article, I otherwise unexplainable difference of two cents for every

P hotogr oloher s Codycnbbnrn sincereiy, must disagree. We had a variety of comparisons available single dollar a woman makes. A gap does indeed exist. I

Sreya Banerjee Barbara J , Brown on the sheet we distributed. 1 must admit I did make one The statistics are real. You can try to dismiss them all

_ University Librarian accidental slip. One woman asked about comparing unrnar- you want, but blatant and false attacks on my character

A _B“s'"e_ss Moooger Thomas v_V°"tnY ' ried men and women—a point Kirwan brings up. I mis- and on the character of my organization are unprofes-
Clroutotfort Dlrootor H°n1'YG1'nnban Kﬂwan Wfong     quoted the statistic in return. It is not 87 cents in that in- sional and unacceptable. Anyone is allowed to disagree

Adverttstng Asststottt M°Q“°°n Caivert stance: it is instead 93 cents to the male dollar—a statistic I with the premise of the bake sale. We are completely open

Dear Editor, quote from an article printed in the Johns Hopkins Journal to the idea that other people have different opinions. But

' The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee Univer-
‘t sity, Lexington, Virginia. The Washington and Lee Publi-
cations Board elects the Editor in chief, but The Ring-tum
Phi is otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible submis-
sions and letters. All submissions‘ must be e-mailed to
4 phi@wlu.edu or in the University Center mailbox by 5
p.m. Friday to appear in the following week’s edition. The
Ring-tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for con-
tent and length. Letters and colunms do not necessarily re-
ﬂect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Ad-
‘ vertising does not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi
or its staff. This newspaper observes current court deﬁni-
tions of libel and obscenity.

“Lies.” “Sham.” “Falsehoods.” “Thoroughly
disproven myth.” Interesting headline for an article in
which the author also afﬁrms, “the statistics KEWL pa-
raded about are true.”

of American Politics that attempts to minimize the gender
gap. Even the author of this article comes to one overriding
conclusion: “Having said this, it is essential to admit that
discrimination still persists, even if only at low levels, in the

calling us liars and peddlers of falsehoods when you rec-
ognize the truth in what we tell shows irresponsibility on

SEE LETTERS, PAGE 4

    
   

TALKBACK: Whatl   tfoodavailable in the Co-op?

The Ring-tum Phi
‘L Mailing Address: University Center
Washington and Lee University

Lexington, Virginia 24450

Street Address: 31 Washington Street
Lexington. Virginia 24450

       

pp Telephone: (540) 462-4060 ’ = ‘ ’ ‘ 3  L . — ~  A ~»,
« Fax: (540)462-4059 “soft retzels” “wraps” “Phill Steak and Cheese ” “wraps” Thmgs we dont
Email: phi@wlu.edu . P . » y . , ' ' , have to make.”
h,,p..//ph,-pwlwedu —Kat1eJenk1ns‘06 -Betsy Frayer‘O6 -JaredHarnson 05, employee -Ashley Brown 06

-Nancy Rhinehart ‘03 , employee

 

   

 

PAGE 4

Democrats’ PC bulig qashes fre scussion

Spring is upon us and, in characteris-
tic fashion, the Democrats smell blood.
Apparently, they will not be happy until
every possible Senator receives the
“Trent” treatment (i.e., in honor of the dis-
graced ex-maj ority leader). Hoping to capi-
talize on Senator Rick Santorum’s (R-Pa.)
chronic case of foot-in-mouth disease, lib‘-
erals across the land are demanding a
pound of ﬂesh.

Washington does deserve credit,
however. The pundits, media, and chat-
terers waited almost three days after the
war in Iraq began winding down to re-
turn to focusing on truly inconsequen-
tial and ridiculous news. The current tem-
pest is over Senator Santorum’s recent
comments condemning homosexual be-
havior. While the Senator’s comments
were ill-timed and urmecessarily graphic,
the calls for his resignation constitute the
real danger.

Unless the Constitution has been
clandestinely co-opted, individuals
(yes, Democrats, even Republican indi-
viduals) are guaranteed the right of free
speech. Even free speech that some
deem to be idiotic. Calls for Santorum’s
resignation are not just unwise, they’re
unsettling: if the exercise of a constitu-
tional right can lead to the forfeiture of
a constitutional office, where does in-
tellectual conformity end?

Perhaps Santorum, as a United States
Senator, was unwise to have espoused the
beliefs he espoused. That is a decision
for the voters of Pennsylvania, not the
liberal media and the Demo-
cratic front groups who
have been greedily plotting
his downfall.

“Senator Santorum’s
comments about (gay) Americans demon-
strates an incredible level of ignorance and
intolerance that is simply not acceptable,”
Jeff Soref, the Chair of the Democratic Na-
tional Committee’s Gay and Lesbian Ameri-
can caucus, said. Unfortunately for Soref,

RIGHT ON!
IOHN HEATH ‘04 __

OI3iI\IiONs

l’H()T() (:oL'RrI«:.<r zwwtgoirtgp/(1/it1rlItr.raIr

FOOT IN MOUTH. \Will the deluge of criticism from the Left for Sen. Rick Santorum (1), pictured with ex-Rep.].C. Watts (R—Okla.), ever stop?

he got it wrongzrthe unacceptable stance
is the one of intellectual McCarthyism that
he embraces. The Senate, like all other de-
liberative bodies, should be a marketplace
of ideas—— even bad ideas. The hope is
that the good ideas will rise to the top and
the merit-less ones will be
discarded, but this pro-
cess can only occur if all
ideas are considered.
Soref and the other
cronies of the thought police are the
real danger here: politically correct bul-
lying discourages intellectual curios-
ity and encourages an atrophy in the
realm of critical thinking. As citizens,
we should be glad that Senator

Santorum had the courage to stand up
for his beliefs, even if those beliefs
prove unpopular.

The unyielding irony of the situation
is the appalling double standard applied in
this case: the very liberals who are
chomping at the bit for Senator Santorum
to go are the very same who get a pass in
the media and punditocracy for frequent
bouts of verbal idiocy which arguably are
much more dangerous for the preservation
of our democracy. I leave you this week
with a few examples:

“It appears to me that Muammar
Qaddaﬁ is one of the greatest preservers
and ﬁghters for human rights that there is
on the earth,” —Louis Farrakhan

“Outside of the killings, Washington
has one of the lowest crime rates in the
country,” -Marion Barry, former Washing-
ton, D.C. Mayor

“In America, anyone can be President.
That’s one of the risks you take,” -former
Presidential nominee Adlai Stevenson

“Thank you for your letter regarding
the protection of the Texas eagle. . . . I share
your view that the urgent problem of spe-
cies extinction and the conservation of bio-
logical diversity should be addressed. . . . I
look forward to working with you for the
future of our planet,” -forrner Vice-Presi-
dent Al Gore, responding to a constituent
who was concerned that Amtrak was can-
celing the Texas Eagle train

    

Peterson murder case exposes abortion’s fallacies

With the hostilities in Iraq slowed to a mopping-up
operation, the cable news networks were lucky that new
developments arose in the Peterson murder case to recap-
ture the public ’s imagination. To recap, Laci Peterson never
returned home after leaving to walk her dog on Christmas
Eve of last year. On April 13, the body of a full-terrn fetus
washed up on the shore near Richmond, Calif. The next
day, the torso of a woman washed ashore about a mile from
the baby’s body. On April 18, the bodies were positively
identiﬁed as those of Laci Peterson and her unborn child
and Scott Peterson was arrested on two counts of murder.

Therein lies this case’s most interesting twist. Soon
after the double murder charges were ﬁled, Mavra Stark,
president of the National Organization for

personhood to fetuses.” Simpson echoes national NOW’s
fear that laws which make killing a fetus murder could lead
to the abolition of abortion because such laws would pro-
tect fetuses at any stage of development.

However, in the wake of the Peterson’s arraignment,
NOW has not reaffirmed its opposition to laws that permit
murder charges for unborn children. Apparently, political
calculation trumps principle and even NOW understands
that opposing the double murder charge in this instance
would be a losing move.

The danger that NOW and its feminazi fellow-travel-
ers face is that unborn children will be routinely catego-
rized as capable of being murdered. Naturally, something

that can be murdered must be alive. If a

Women’s Morris County, N.J., chapter, RIGHT OF THE AISLE fetus is in fact a child, deserving of the
objected to a second murder charge being ‘ state’s protection, the entire pro—abortion
ﬁled on behalf of the unborn child. She BRETT T KIRWAN 04 house of cards comes tumbling down.

told the Morris County Daily Record,
“Was it born, or was it unborn? If it was unborn, then I
can’t see charging (Peterson) with a double murder.”

Kim Gandy, national president of NOW, has similarly
spoken out against permitting criminals to be charged with
the murder of unborn children. Alter Sen. Mike DeWine
(R-Ohio) introduced the Unborn Victims of Violence Act
in 2001, she spat, “This bill is being sold as an effort to
deter violence against women, but it ignores the pregnant
woman. It is nothing more than a poorly disguised at-
tempt to elevate fetal rights.”

Professor Pam Simpson, president of the Rockbridge
county NOW chapter, agrees with Gandy. The reason why
Stark spoke up she says, “is mostly likely over concern”
about “a whole body of law” that could potentially “grant

Pro-abortion arguments are based on
the philosophical conclusion that babies in utero are no
more alive or separate from the mother than fat sucked out
during liposuction. As such, a woman shouldn’t feel any
more compunction about having an abortion than she
might while clipping her toenails or having her tonsils
removed. The Peterson case brings into sharp relief the
fact that an unborn child is, in fact, a human being distinct
from the mother who deserves the protection of state.
Mavra Stark has the unfortunate distinction of being the
only NOW member willing to admit this in public.

Unfortunately for the infanticide crusaders, public
opinion and state legislatures are working to make laws
that protect unborn babies the national standard. Cur-
rently, 14 states have deﬁned intentionally killing a fetus

 

    

POT0 (j()URTE.\‘\' wwzmjtrztrrrtetrtrgmzqi.trtrr .r/r
PERSONHOOD? Scott Peterson has been charged with killing
an unborn child. Some in NOW see this as a step toward
outlawing abortion.

in any stage of development a crime. At least 12 more
permit manslaughter or murder charges based on the age
of the fetus. Califomia’s law, under which murder charges

‘ may be ﬁled if the fetus was at least seven weeks old, was

passed in 1970. Alabama, Colorado and North Carolina are
all currently considering adding similar laws to their books.

The pro—abortion lobby is based on a lie— that unborn
children are not human, not separate from their mothers and can
be killed indiscriminately The Peterson case and NOW ’s reaction

. to it demonstrate the fallacy of their logic and the evil of abortion.

§ FUN CARDS 0 APRIL CORNELL CLOTHING ° PURSES

MONDAY, APRIL 28, 2003

LETTERS FROM PAGE 3

the part of the journalist. What is a catchy and contro-
versial article to you was somebody else’s hard work.
Perhaps you should consider that when you are criti-
cizing the next project and the people that contributed
to it. You should remember that real people are involved,
too.

Sincerely,

Robyn Konkel ‘05

Kirwan responds: V

I never impugned anyone’s character. 1 did ques-
tion KEWL spreading, via a bake sale, the untruth that
the gender wage gap is due to discrimination. My ar-

ticle clearly demonstrated that any wage gap that ex— A

ists is do to other factors and not discrimination.

Hillel objects to letter’s headline

Dear Editor,

Recently, you chose to publish a letter en-
titled “Alumnus blames Jews for war (March 17).”
We are writing to complain not only about your
decision to publish such an inﬂammatory and irra-
tional letter, but even more, your headline for the
letter. First, Lackmann, as he himself says, never
attended Washington and Lee University for long
and never graduated; your use of “alumnus”
therefore gives the letter more weight than it de-
serves.

Second, your headline focuses solely on one
small part of the letter, and not even its most im-
portant part. The letter is a diatribe against vari-
ous people persecuting those who want to think
independently (especially the letter’s author), and
its main claim is that Washington and Lee stu-
dents want to be told what to think.

We can only conclude that you, the editor,
chose such a headline for its shock value— to
provoke and inﬂame public opinion at the expense

of Jews. This is especially what we object to. Your _
actions were hurtful and insensitive. '

We would like finally to draw your attention
to the way you have presented our campus com-
munity to prospective students visiting campus
on that weekend (minority, Jewish, and Honors
candidates). Rather than an atmosphere of free
speech and open discussion, your handling ofthis
and other inﬂammatory letters in the same issue
makes us look small-minded and hostile to differ-
ences. Surely you couldhave found ways to
present these important issues that would lead this
campus toward better understanding, civility, and
community.

Sincerely,
The officers of Hillel

Stash cigarette butts in the trash

Dear Editor,

I can stand in front. of Newcomb Hall smoking a
cigarette and count 39 ‘cigarette butts on and in the
bricks within 5 feet of the TWO ceramic cigarette dis-
posal containers that are sitting in front of Newcomb
Hall. Come on people . . . how hard is it to put your
cigarette in the sand? I have a real problem when I see
the custodians, who don’t smoke, have to get out there
with brooms and sweep and dig out the butts from the
bricks. Let’s try a little harder next time and I mean, all
over campus. And believe you me, I will call you on it,
ask the smoking students around Newcomb Hall.
Sincerely,

Karen Lyle
Secretary, Religion, Philosophy, Sociology and
Anthropology, East Asian Languages & Literature

HAVE OPINIONS?
CONTACT THE 2003-4 OPINIONS EDITOR
CALEY ANDERSON
X4845 OR ANDERsONc@wLU'.EDU

 
    

 
   
 
  
    
 

 

E?
- §
LL! 9, ,
o ’ *1
WE CAN DO ITI 6» €II|e-  THE
‘A {$9 a APARTMENT ,
Repairs ~ Contacts 5) § LOCATOR
5 Z 
COOL FRAMES! :§: § :l[':ll:;I_llltll‘S I=|:_EE rocdnrnn ‘satiric: ’
~ 3 Dllll Ollllﬂ Illll an lllllll‘ N38 Illa
HGT LENSES! é §  " #
SHADES! E    <2 - -
   33‘I-?».%%.‘%233 .
   53’ wvvw-shoovumokinseedscom  E-mail:anartmentlucatnr@gst:-antcom
20 years serving Rockbridge 8 <7‘
at 203 N, Main street, Lexington Q MITTENS - STATIONERY - HOME ACCENTS S?» ,.

463-7440

 

  

it

. One singular sensation: One Acts entenarn

 

   

LA’IlH£R1NEL.GbY
ARIs&LIEEEoIToR
F1vHI;cwt@wIIIH)II
MONDAY, APRIL 28, 2003

One took place in a New York City apartment. One
took place in a patient’s room. One took place in a living
room. One presented the realities of working as an aspiring

‘ writer. One presented the thought process of a mentally

unstable person. One presented a situation nothing short
of bizarre and bad luck. One was witty and comical. One
was melancholic and disturbing. One was uproarious and
hilarious.

The One Acts were a series of one acts, each student
directed and performed. I had the pleasure of attending
Kris Pollina’s “Who Made Robert DeNiro King of
America”, Bart Peters’s “The Most Massive Woman
Wins”, and Emily Pace’s “Black Comedy”
last Saturday afternoon. Though I
unfortunately was unable to attend the other
series of The One Acts, which were directed

\ by Ana Estrada and Neal Willetts, I heard

they were nothing short of brilliant
performances.

As Radiohead faded into the background, Pollina
opened the scene: a man (Joe Harouni) whose shirttail
was half—tucked in knelt on the living room ﬂoor
frantically typing away on an old, beat-up typewriter,
while across the stage a business-like woman in a suit
(Sara Kell Bowers) sat at a ﬂawlessly clean desk, staring
blankly into her laptop screen. The contrast became
immediately apparent: the spontaneous vs. the tamed;
the fanatical vs. the rational; ideaphoric thoughts vs.
blocked thoughts; the Dionysus vs. the Apollo; husband
vs. wife.

Pollina wonderfully portrayed the dissimilarity
between these two characters and their relationship with
the unrestricted, anything-goes pragmatic (not to
mention promiscuous) agent (Sarah Orvin) whose only
purpose is to sell potential novels — and in any way
possible. Bowers, Harouni, and Orvin were convincing
and performed the distinctive personalities of the
characters perfectly: at one moment, I’d “side” with the
husband and wish him all the success, while the next
moment I’d feel sorry for the pitiful wife who was
suffering from writer’s block. Together, Pollina, Bowers,
Harouni, and Orvin put on a wonderful and entertaining
comedy that at times, according to Pollina, “stressed
the hell out of me” but was, nonetheless, “an awesome
experience.”

Peters’s “The Most Massive Woman Wins” brought
the psychology of an obese person to the stage. Taking
place in the doctor’s oﬂice before cellulite removal surgery,
this play focused on the reﬂections of four obese women
in a society that prides itself on being thin. Peters used a
creative approach to its production, portraying the
disconcerting history of an obese person and the effects
of childhood teasing, the inability to stop eating, the
pressures from husbands, and many other causes of
obesity. I thought Peters artistically used the lighting,
eerie singing and dancing to convey their unstable
mentalities, while Ligia Abreu, Kristin Marie Evans,
Kimberly Sampson, and Josie James gave heart-wrenching
and bone-chilling performances. It was deep and thought-
provoking, gloomy and depressing, yet frighteningly

 credible.

The actresses gave wonderful performances and
presented the aspect of the eating disorder that carmot be
known by reading textbooks or as told from a doctor. They
presented the experience of obesity, what it is like to have
and live with the disease, and how it takes over the mind,
completely encompassing all thoughts, behaviors, and

ON THE ARTS
AURA LEIGH BIRD“/ELL‘03above interact together in a living room

THE RlN‘G-TEMP I

RTS

 

0

life itself. Their performance was so captivating that I felt
as though I were experiencing the disease myself and as
the play came to a close, I — as well as the entire auditorium
— was silent, at a complete loss for words. The melancholy
of the situation overwhelmed me and brought to my eyes
how inﬂuential subtle aspects of society can have such a
great impact on the lives of many women desiring to be
thin.

On a lighter note, what happens when a lively and
animated guy, a high maintenance girlfriend with her
militant father, a single, devout Christian elderly woman, a
ﬂamboyantly gay friend, an intelligent electrician, and a
wealthy man from the bourgeois interact
together in a living room? Answer: a
comedy. What happens when all of the

’ in the dark? An outrageously hysterical

comedy. Add in a few more details —

such as the moment when the elderly woman drinks alcohol

for the first time in 60 years or that all the furniture in the

living room was stolen from the gay ﬁiend’s apartment or

that the racy ex-girlfriend decides to crash there for the

night after her lengthy journey abroad — and you get more

than an outrageously hysterical comedy. You get Black
Comedy.

I carmot explain how truly side-splitting and hilarious
the performance was. All I can say is that the next morning,
I awoke feeling as though I had done 500 sit-ups the night
before. I had laughed so hard that I made my stomach
sore.

The play began in darkness and could not see
anything. All we could understand from the play was that
a normal conversation was taking place in what seemed to
be a living room. Suddenly, the lights came on while in the
play, they had supposedly blown a fuse and the lights
were off. In other words, Pace used darkness and light to
convey when the apartment lights were on and off,
respectively. So, for nearly the entire play, the actors and
actresses had to act and pretend that they were in complete
darkness ~ it was great! Their performances were wonderful
and believable— no, wait, they were more than believable.
They were absolutely ﬂawless. Pace casted: Casey
Ratchford as the main character, Catherine Sumrnerson as
his fiancee Carol, Jane Ledlie as the elderly Christian
woman, Ruth Esponda as the ex-girlfriend, Chris Alderman
as the electrician, Nick Ramsey as the wealthy tycoon,
Caleb Dulis as the fIancée’s father, and Jeremy Mirns as
the gay friend.

The play consisted of purely situational humor
and thus, and almost all credit for the extreme hilarity
ofthe comedy must be given to senior Emily Pace as
the director. The actors and actresses executed their
lines and actions perfectly, but to think that she
completely directed the show and was able to arrange
all the bizarre situations is beyond me. She .is
definitely gifted and talented and knows how to create
laughter.

Long hours and hard work were deﬁnitely put into
all five of the one acts, especially on the part of the
directors. The three plays thatl saw were all fabulous and
I couldn’t believe that they were directed entirely by
students. The performances by the actors and actresses
were equally as fabulous as were the directors and the
technical staff, and I’d just like to say thanks to everyone
who helped with the shows — you made me think, reﬂect,
imagine, and laugh harder than I had in a really, really long
time.

FUN IN THE sUN!

KATIE H0wEI.L/ the Ring-/um Phi

OFF To THE RACES! On Saturday, April 26, thousands of college students from throughout Virginia and
neighboring areas attended the biannual Foxfreld races in Charlottesville. As is customary, Washington and
Lee enjoyed a strong representation among the attendees of the festivities. The above students are waiting in

IFE

 

line to use the rows of portable bathrooms, a common sight at Foxfreld. The races will occur again in the fall.

Write for Life!

email guyc@wlu.edu or phi@wlu.edu

BIZARRE LOVE TRIANGLE: Greg (]oe Harouni ‘O5) and Sylvia
(Ligia Abreu ‘06) play together affectionately as Greg’s wife
Kate (Kris Pollina ‘03) looks ‘on disapprovingly and jealously.

BY MEGAN MORGAN
ASSISTANT ARTS & LIFE EDITOR

Starting on May 3, the W&L
theatre will present the play “Sylvia”
written by A.R Gurney’s and
directed by W&L senior Neal
Willetts. Sylvia tells the story of a
young couple in New York City, Kate
and Greg, whose marriage is
threatened by the increasing amount
of time that Greg spends with his
best friend. This friend is, in
actuality, the couple’s pet dog,
Sylvia.

Senior Neal Willetts, whose
directing experience here at
Washington and Lee includes the
productions of “Godspell” in the
fall of 2001 and “Zoo Story” in last
month’s One Acts, is directing
“Sylvia”. Willets selected “Sylvia”

‘Sylvia’ brings barks, laugh

not only because of the play’s humor
but also because “underlying the
hilarious dialogue of “Sylvia” and
fantastic writing of one of A.R.
Gurney’s best comedies, is an
exploration of marriage and the
importance of communication in
maintaining a long-lasting
relationship.”

The cast of the play includes
freshman Ligia Abreu as Sylvia,
senior Kris Pollina as Kate and
sophomore Joe Harouni as Greg.
Mike Diverio, Sarah Sager and
Meredith Hibbard play supporting
characters. These individuals play
friends of the couple that take sides

with either Greg or Kate in their

ongoing debate over whether or not
to keep Sylvia.

The cast members are very
excited about the play, despite the

PAGE 5

OUR 'lX

What is the problem with this love tr:iangle.R Sylvia happens
to be a french poodle. This hilarious comedy shows us what
our lives would be like if our pets could only talk back.

strenuous practice schedule that

they have adhered to. Ligia
Abreu says “I read the script and
thought it was a hilarious
comedy. The minute I read it I
knew I wanted to be involved
with it in some way. I was
unbelievably excited when I was
cast, and I’m still excited to be
working with the great and
talented group of people who are
involved with the show.”

This humorous play will be
performed on Saturday, May 3 at 8
p.m., Sunday, May 4 at 2 p.m. and 8
p.m., and Monday, May 5 at 8 p.m.
All of the performances will take
place in the Johnson Theatre of the
Lenfest Center. Admission is free
for the entire university
community, and no tickets are
required.

Dance the night away at Lenfest

W&L Dance bids a fond farewell to the seniors who have made this year’s work possible

SRE B.\NER|EE/ the RirIg—l/it/IP/I

DANCING ON AIR: W&L Dance ballerinas dazzle the crowds in Lenfest during Saturday night’s dance performance.

BY MARY CHRISTOPHER

STAFF WRITER

Every year Washington and Lee performs two
dance shows, one in the winter and one in the spring.
The Winter show was comprised of a great deal of
ballet, choreographed by Melissa Belcher, as well as
The spring show
however, has a very different ﬂavor to it and has the
ability to appeal to a great deal of people. Whether
you enjoy the classic feel of a ballet piece, the
intensity of a tap number, the energy of jazz or the
street feel of hip hop, you can experience it all at the

an interpretive modern piece.

show.

The girls who participate in ballet work off campus
at Belcher’s studio and put in many hours to perfect
their technique and style. The Jazz, Tap, and Hip Hop
Dancers also meet several times a week to review turns,

combinations, and choreography.

Freshman Lyndsay Polloway is the head Jazz
instructor and has put many hours working with the
dancers on “Born to be Wild”, keeping it both technical
andentertaining. Freshman Katherine Fischer is the
Head Hip Hop instructor and used her many years of
experience with this style to create a piece for a
multitude of ability levels. Mary Christopher, also a

freshman, is the Head Tap instructor and has
choreographed both a Broadway style tap piece and
a more modern piece to feature graduating senior,

Catherine Satterﬁeld. Satterﬁeld recalls having a great
time throughout her years dancing with the ensemble.
She has done such a great variety of pieces and
enjoyed all of them.

The three choreographers spend a great deal of
time not only creating dances, but organizing and
structuring the program as well. Polloway said, “The
girls have worked so hard.and deserve the chance to
shine and show off their abilities!”

Robin Okin is another graduating senior who

choreographed a showcase piece “Over the Rainbow”,

sung by Eva Cassidy, with Belcher.
performed Appalachian Suite, an Elvis Suite, and
variations to Bach and Glasnov music, with the ballet
ensemble. When asked to reﬂect on her experience

Okin also

with the ensemble she remarked, “my four years at

too.”

W&L would not have been as fulﬁlling if I had not
‘participated in W&L Dance. I’ve met some great
people and have had some well... goofy and fun times

Although the ensemble graduates two women, it is
very young, comprised of many freshmen, and has much
promise for the future.

    

l’A.GE._6. . 

 ARTS & nu;

PRIDE opens its doors to students

BY LAURA LEIGH BIRDWELI.
S'[‘.\l5l3 WRITER

As humans, we strive to
create ourown identity — to be a
person unlike any other person
who has ever walked on this earth.
Whether you want to explain this
phenomenon in terms of biology,
sociology, psychology, or
philosophy is beside the point.
The point here is that our
creativity is the source of our
humanity, distinguishing us from
all other species, permitting us to
be unique individuals. And it is
through the expression of
creativity, thinking as an
individual and the desire to be a
distinctive self that a diverse
community is created.

Diversity does not refer solely
to different ethnicities or to
differences in cultural or personal
background. It is not limited to nose
rings or colorful tattoos, to blue hair
or red tennis shoes. On the contrary,
diversity has no limits. For example,
how do you eat an oreo? Do you
prefer to dip in it milk, anxiously
waiting that moment when the
chocolate crust becomes soggy? Or
do you prefer to spread peanut butter
on top, with a glass of milk on the
side? Or better yet, how do you like
to party? Do you prefer the close-
knit quarters of a friend’s house, a
pitcher of beer at the Palms, or a
fraternity party with the Right—On
Band playing the all—too familiar tunes
of Motown?

Diversity is limited only by the
source ofideas. It refers to the way
each person views life, enjoys life,
and seeks to conduct that life. For
this reason diversity is most
prominent within colleges and
college life. College constitutes
those moments in life when, more
than ever, we, as ambitious,
youthful, and vivacious beings,
are seeking how to live our lives,
seeking answers to crucial
questions about the best way to
live, and the proper roles we
should fulfill as students, as

  

MIX DoN’T MATCH: Avery Gholston ‘O3, Cristin Nunez ‘O5, and Kyle Meehan ‘O5 participate in a PRIDE event earlier
this year in which students went to the dining hall and met new people while dressed in clothes that did not match.

citizens of America, and as human
beings.

If Washington and Lee
University is to preserve and
promote these reﬂections and help
its students develop and grow as
individuals, it must also preserve
the already existing diversity, as
well as bring it to a higher level.
With small classes focused on
discussion, with the liberal arts
curriculum and with professors
who encourage student papers to
be a reflection of one’s own
thoughts as opposed to mere
regurgitations of memorizations,
Washington and Lee does indeed
foster a diverse educational
experience — it instigates the
exchange of ideas and
development of one’s own
thoughts and ideas, which is a
crucial step for ensuring the
existence of diversity.

These aspects I have just
described, however, are a bit
beyond the reach of most of the
student body. Yet the power of the
student body should not be
underestimated. While the
preservation of the already existing
diversity lies in the hands of the
administration, the students have

the power to bring this diversity to
the higher level. PRIDE
(Programming for the Respect of
Individuals and Diversity in
Education) is an organization that
seeks to celebrate the diversity of
life, on all levels of education.
Though its purpose shall remain,
how it is to function as an
organization is on the verge of a
transition, its fate to be determined
by the students.

On this coming Tuesday,
April 29 at 8p.m. in Northern
Auditorium, PRIDE will be holding
an open forum for the discussion
of how to increase student
interaction on campus. The forum
will address the need for an
increased degree of interaction
between student organizations
and groups. As is, W&L has a
wonderful mix of talent and
leadership within each of the
many individual organizations. Yet
if the students want to achieve
change on campus, if they want
to make a difference and have
their voices heard they must be
in unison, working together as a
collaborative effort.

I ask that all leaders from every
arena — from GCF to the basketball

team, from the fraternities and
sororities to Nabors, from MSA to the
peer counselors — whatever
organization you represent, I ask that
you make an appearance to the
community forum and speak your
mind about the issue of community
at Washington and Lee and how we
as students and our organizations
can interact as a whole, thereby
strengthening our student body
voice.

Mike Morrow, the co—president
of PRIDE, said that “integration at
this university is possible...when
different people of different groups
unite in the pursuit of common
goals... Inherent in Dr. King’s
vision for an equal America is the
notion of unity. He envisioned an
integrated multicultural nation with
sons of slaves and sons of former
slave owners sitting together at the
table of brotherhood. If W&L
desires both unity and diversity, it
must make efforts to see that the
same opportunities and benefits are
extended to all members. And if we
as students are to have a say in the
matter, we must unite ourselves and
discuss these issues. That is the
purpose of the community forum on
Tuesday.”

‘I51 Puoro / the Rmg-tum bi

MONDAY, APRIL 28, 2003

Write for Arts & Life!

 
 

   

%_IamS1.000-Smoﬂoforyuwsludenlﬁrollp
lusts ho

- -College mdrai4s.:ér*.

 
 
   

 
 

  

. ode Simple, Satin‘: and Free,

Muﬁigaiua tuntiraising optima zrwrielriaie. No  No minus. Just suwesst
Fwuﬁwklltg dsvztaézs em rum»; qptdely. get with the rt:-graiarr; that world

Iii:-rzr Tnweaxi 3191075‘! for Catlege Fmnfmirirng.
838-923 -32. 3 8 »- ww=.a:.c.am;:m'sf:t:nciraisemcrsm

\

Room at 2nd Polehouse
for rent

June 2003-May 2004
$410 a month, 5 hot roomies
Contact (254) 717-4039 or
|dcyc@w|u.edu if interested

FOR RENT

312 E. Washington
House can accomodate 4 students: 4 bedrooms,
2 baths, living room, kitchen, dining room and
study. Excellent off—street parking.
$1,000 per month.

110 E. Washington
House can accomodate 2-3 students:
2-3 bedrooms, 2 baths, living room,
dining room, kitchen.
$750.00 per month.

Call Pat Aldred, Mead Associates, Realtors, at
463-7168

7 East Be erley Street - Staunton, VA - 540-886-8666 - Hours: Mon—Sat: 10am-9pm; Sun: 12am-6pm

*.

1

.>,

3'»

l’

r

ERINJLIIUS
,Si=oRIs EDIIOR

13m—'IIIUsE@ivIu.e>U

IIIR RING~TUI\I PHI

MONDAY, APRIL 28, 2003

“Baseball 1

BY JOHN HYLAND
4. SPORTS WRITER

The Washington and Lee base-
ball team placed second in the ODAC
tournament, falling to Virginia

‘Wesleyan, 1 1-3, in the title game yes-
terday inWinston Salem, North Caro-
It was the third time in school his-

/‘tory that the Generals had reached the

championship game, and the first
since 1999.

The Generals opened the double-
elirnination tournament with a 16-1

"thrashing of Lynchburg last Thurs-

day. Junior catcher Bryan Mulhern led
the offensive onslaught by going 4
for 6 with two runs scored and four

‘RBIs.

" ‘ Sophomore designated hitter
Zach Bausch went 3 for 4 with a run
scored and four RBIs and senior short-
stop Michael Hanson added a three-

’~zuri homer.

Junior left—hander Peter Dean
pitched superbly, going the full
nine innings for his sixth complete

[game of the year, allowing only ﬁve
hits and striking out eight to im-
prove his record to 7-2 on the sea-
son. The easy victory allowed the
Generals to rest some of their start-

*4ers and stay fresh for the four day

tournament.
On Friday, the Generals faced
Bridgewater. Junior right-hander
"Dan Kagey got the start and al-
lowed only one run through seven
innings, leaving the game with the
“score tied at 1. The Generals lone

PORTS    
oses ODACs, nd DAC season 26-7 overall

HIE PHOTO

HOME RUN. Washington and Lee’s Austin Allain, ‘O4 bats in a game played earlier this season.

run came when Bausch scored on
a wild pitch in the fifth inning.
W&L broke the tie in the top of
the ninth with a two-out RBI
single from senior centerfielder
Bobby Littlehale which scored
Hanson. Freshman Taylor
McConnell came in as a pinch hit-
ter and delivered an insurance run
with a single that scored
Littlehale. Both General runs were

unearned.

Hanson, who replaced Kagey
on the mound in the eighth inning,
pitched a scoreless ninth to earn
his second victory of the season.
The win was the Generals 24th of
the season, breaking the school
record for wins in a season which
had been set in 2001.

The win advanced W&L to a
Saturday morning meeting with

‘LAX attack. Gavin Molinelli ‘O5 blazes through defenders during a game earlier this term.

first seeded Virginia Wesleyan.
The Generals opened the scoring
with two runs in the second with
an RBI single from the pitcher,
Mulhern. It was Mulhern’s 46th
RBI of the year, giving him the
single season record in W&L
school history.

However, it would be the only
offense that the Generals could
muster on the afternoon. The Mar-

I~1lEl’HOTO

lins came back with two runs in the
fourth and two more in the sixth en
route to a 7-2 victory. The Generals-
committed four errors, which did not
help their cause as only two of the
four l’l1l'lS that Mulhern gave up were
earned. ‘

The loss forced the Generals
into an elimination game against
Bridgewater on Saturday night.
W&L produced four runs in the
third inning, including a two-run
double from senior ﬁrst baseman
Brian Gladysz, to open a four run
lead that they would not relinquish.
Bausch went 3 for 4 on the night,
with a run scored and an RBI to help
the Generals to a 6-4 victory. Jun-
ior right-hander got the win, pitch-
ing six innings, allowing three runs,
one earned to improve his record
to 5-1 on the year. Hanson had an-
other solid outing in relief, allow-
ing one run over the ﬁnal three in-
nings.

The victory placed the Generals
into yesterday’s championship with
Virginia Wesleyan. However, the
Generals would need two wins to
earn the ODAC crown since the Mar-
lins had yet to lose in the touma-
ment.

W&L took a 2-0 lead on the
Marlins in the third inning on
their shortstop’s throwing error,
scoring Gladysz and Hanson. Vir-
ginia Wesleyan came back to
score two runs in the fifth and
another in the sixth off of Dean,
pitching on only two days rest,
to take a 3-2 lead.

PAGE 7

The Marlins took their lead into
the ninth inning, just three outs away
from the championship but an RBI
single from McConnell scored
Mulhern to tie the game at3 and force
extra imrings.

The Generals took the lead in
the top of the eleventh when
Mulhern scored on Bausch’s
groundout, only to have the score

tied again at 4 in the bottom of the I

inning. W&L scored again in the

twelfth on an RBI single from :

Gladysz that scored junior second I

baseman Austin Allain. This time, -

Wert, who had entered the game in .

the seventh inning, was able to hold <

off the Marlins and earn his second
win in as many days.

The dramatic victory forced a "

second game yesterday afternoon

to determine the ODAC champion. ’

The Generals, however, appeared
worn out from the outset, playing
their fourth game in two days. The
Marlins scored in each of the first

five innings, to open an 8-0 lead. .
The starter, Kagey, allowed the‘

first eight runs on twelve hits but
he was not helped out by his de-
fense.

The Generals committed four er-
rors on the afternoon as only six of

the eleven runs that Kagey and"

sophomore right-hander Ken Hack-

man surrendered were earned. The ‘

Generals bats produced eleven hits
but only three I'lJIlS as W&L left thir-
teen runners on base.

Virginia Wesleyan cruised to an
1 1-3 victory and their fourth

Men’s LAX loses
ODAC title to Lynchburg

FROM STAFF REPORTS

Men’s lacrosse lost the ODAC
tournament championship game, 6-5,
to Lynchburg when Lynchburg’s
Kevin Reinecke scored with nine sec- .
onds remaining in overtime. This year
marks Lynchburg’s first-ever ODAC
Championship.

The game remained close
throughout, with neither team ever
leading by more than a point. Going
into halﬁime, the Generals had a 3-2
lead after midﬁelder Dustin Martin,
’04, scored with 9:01 remaining in the
second period.

The Hornets then snatched the
lead away when Billy McCulloch and
Reinecke both scored, taking a 4-3
lead. Going into the fourth period,

the Generals tied the score when
Martin scored again. During the
fourth period, the Generals scored
first, with attackrnan Matt Fink, ’04,
scored his second goal of the game.
The Hornets then tied the game

again, when Joe Matta scored with T

7:15 remaining.

Reinecke won the game for the .

Hornets when «he scored in over-
time; it was his third goal of the
game.

Fink and Martin led the Generals ’

in scoring, with two goals each.

The Generals take to the field
again on Saturday as it hosts Lime-
stone for a 1:30 pm contest. The Gen-
erals will then wait to see if they re-
ceive an at-large bid to the NCAA
Division III Tournament.

_Track teams each take fourth in ODACs

Individuals have good pen‘ormances, teams prepare for last meets on the weekend of May 10

BY MARY CHRISTOPHER
‘K SPORTS WRITER

The race comes to an end for the
Generals, with many strong perfor-
mances

It It was Saturday morning and
everyone was up! Many were clad
in cute attire on their way to F oxﬁeld
for a day of socializing. and fun, but
not the runners. The Generals track

earn was preparing for‘ their ﬁnal
meet, the Outdoor ODAC champi-
onships. The day started out cold
and overcast but the Generals

.«headed to Roanoke and remained
optimistic.

Eventually the sun peaked
through the clouds and the races were
going great, people were running per-

isonal records left and right and the
coaches were ecstatic.

With two events to go, the rain
rolled in and brought with in thunder

‘and lightening; resulting in the post-
ponement of the mens’ 5,000 and the
4 by 400 relay teams. 1

Soon all the events were ﬁnished and
both the men’s and women’s teams placed

-‘fourth in the ODAC Championships.

‘ The women had an excellent per-
formance. In the 100m dash Meredith
Walker took 7th with her time of 13 .70.

‘In the  Kim Gunst took 4th with a

e
I
'3

1.05.42, Angel Daniels got 8th with a
1.09.21, and Casey Sharpe got 9th with
her 1.12.27. Liz Twentyman had a solid
performance giving her 5th with her
time of 2.35.20 in the 800-m, while Erin
Johnson got 6th with her 2.35.70, Mary
Christopher got 7th with 2.37.10, and
Meghan Ward got 9th with her
2.40.50.

Mary Christopher won 3rd place
with her time of 5:08.50, and Meghan
ward earned 6th place with a 5: 15.43
in the 1500. Betsy Frayer ran a great
5000 ﬁnishing second with her time
of 19.10. Ashley Brown, Samantha
Snabes, and Jessica Remnert also
ran the event finishing, 9th , 10th ,
and 12th respectively. In the High
Jump Angel Daniels got 3rd with her
height of 4 ’ 10. Long Jumper
Meredith Walker got 6th with her
distance of l5’07.50. In the shot put
Emily Barker won 3rd with a 36’04
while in the discus and Javelin she
won 7th.

The men also had some excellent
individual performances. In the 100m
Brian Krupczak won 2nd with a 1 1.03,
Sullivan 5th with arrl 1.20, and Brimer
6th with an 1 1.29. In the 200m dash
Krupczak ﬁnished 3rd in 22.44 and
Brimer ﬁfth with 23.01.

In the 800m, Steve Chambers was
7th with a 2.02.40, Rusty Meyer was

9th with a 2.02.60, and Matt Reilley
was 13th with a 2.05. Rusty also ran
the l500m and completed it in 4.12
earning him 8th place. In the 5000m
Andrew Johnson finished 9th with a
16.36.70.

The men’s relay team, the 4 by
100m, ﬁnished second and for the
long jump Sullivan ﬁnished ﬁrst and
Krupczak second.

It was a great way to finish the
season and the coaches are proud of

COL’R'I11S&'()l‘0t).l(]-[JOHN Tum-1R
RUN. Lee Stirmett, ‘04, races a relay during Saturday’s ODACs.

the many accomplishments of the ath-
letes! Way to go Generals!

The men’s track team will
compete in the James Madison In-
vitational on Saturday, May 10
while the women travel to the UNC
Last Chance Invitational that week-
end.

The NCAA Championships will
be held Thursday, May 22 through
Saturday, May 24 at a time to be an-
nounced.

FROM STAFF REPORTS

Washington and Lee ’s women’s
tennis team won its eighth consecu-
tive ODAC Championship on Sun-
day in a match played at Sweet Briar
College inArnhearst, Virginia. The
Generals won the No. 1-6 single
spots and the No. 1-3 doubles.

Erika Proko, ’03, took the No. 1
singles spot with a 6- 1 , 6-3 win over
Roanoke ’s Ashley Fleming. Laura
Bruno, ’03, won 6-1, 4-6, 10-5 over
Randolph-Macon’s Brooke Lambert
for the No. 2 spot. Brandi Jane
Wedgeworth, ’03, defeated Hollins’
Cayce Schnare 6-4, 6-1 for the No. 3

FROM STAFF REPORTS

Over Springbreak,Washingtonand
Lee’sgolftearrrwaittotlieODACCnam-
pionships held at the Olde Mill Resort in
LaurelFork,VAonApril2l and22. The
teamtookthirdinaﬁeldofnine.

Guilford took ﬁrst for the fourth
consecutive year, with Hampden-
Sydney in second, followed by Wash-

Randolph-Macon, Virginia Wesleyan,
Lynchburg and Emory & Henry com-
pleted the turnout.

The Generals recorded 319 in

ington and Lee. Roanoke, Bridgewater,_

Women take tennis ODACs

spot. Lisa Mabry, ’06, Elizabeth Law,
’04, and Megan Curran, ’06, won
spots 4-6 with wins over women from
Hollins.

As for doubles action, Bruno
and Mabry doubled up to win the
No. 1 title with an 8-3 victory against
Bridgewater’s Anne Yust and Holly
Egrior. Law andLoraFarris, ’05, won
the No.2 spot in doubles with a vic-
tory over Randolph-Macon’s Ste-
fanie Mills andAmy Iden. Proko and
Wedgeworth took the No. 3 doubles
championship with their 8-3 win over
Hollins’ Chnare and Olsen.

The Generals will begin to play
in the Division HI NCAA Champi-
onship on Saturdaym May 3.

Golf takes 3rd in ODACs

the opening round, followed by 327
for a two-day total of 646. Guilford
shot a total of 63 1 with Ha.rnpden-
Sydney close behind with 636.

As for individual results, Chuck
Green, ’03, was the General’s best,
ﬁnishing fourth with rounds of 76-80
fora ﬁnal score of 156. Chip Campbell
ﬁnished with 163, Ged Johnson with
164, Cullen Toole with 168, Tom Borda
with 169 and Matt Bart with 185.

The Generals have two more tour-
naments thisyear. One attheUniversity
otDelaware(x1April26-27andtheNCAA
Championships inOhioMay 12-15.

  Phi sports. Contact Erin at X4060 to get into the game.

PAGE 8

 

MONDAY, APRIL 28, 2003

Sl5ORTS

Women’s LAX wins its 15th consecuive garn, takes ODACS

Com’ G.\BB.\RD / T/;eRirig—Tm P/ii

ALL I WANT FOR CHRISTMAS. An enthusiastic fan gets into the festive spirit during Saturday’s ODAC championship lacrosse game.

BY DONNY BANKS
ASSISTANT‘ SPORTS EDITOR

The Washington and Lee
women’s lacrosse team pummeled
Sweet Briar College, 20-3 , on Wednes-
day at the Liberty Hall Fields in the
ﬁrst round of the ODAC Tournament.

3”’ _
'79 . V6
7 "ti
:§%9§W‘"

i
. 
M3

 

E
tg S, ’, 5‘ 2»,

  

é

.crg;

uéic

it
May 12

Jaéaaiétzei    
Mondays 7:30-10:30--BDG Quad (Rainsite: G 0

 °tiieWi'3“~§Lt:i.<.?zl

\.

It was the team’s 13th straight victory,
a school record.

Although the two teams ex-
changed goals early in the first quar-
ter, the Generals dominated the rest
of the ﬁrst half. After a 14-0 run, W&L
led 15-1 going into the third quarter.

“Our team seemed well prepared,

     
 
 

”“‘-\
-~<

escriiziﬁoniiéiizginal roots roc

, Lloyd Dobler Effect

3  i,it$is;:i%e9*ié£iiéir%§,‘¥E£3§i“i%*°%‘§late: a
Fan Fan & Friends M“ , ,

Music Description: Carribean mix of jazz and reggae I

Me}? a  it  t*‘Wl33l§«i§fili§li¥eW9

,.;,_.\-¢.,,,,

.~!A\<«

Eaagiirdawiieotiti I  
Kirsch and Brandon Watfdell) “  it to‘ t‘ ’ "  ‘J’ * 0"“
A Music Descriptionzsongs you know by heart 1 . 

Mai?    

Music Description: meloﬁc, guitar-d

riven 1' OC

and we really came to play against a
much improved Sweet Briar squad,”
Head Coach Jan Hathom commented.

The Generals, who already de-
feated the Vixens earlier in the year in
regular play, continued to run things
in the second half, holding a 38-7 ad-
vantage in shots, a 47-24 edge in

 
  

e  t:i%<;t

 C»i~ii.{:}.,,_

2;:

~“x

Git C2,,

i.i"t»:?:1*?
k

ground balls, and forcing 21 tum-
overs.

Freshman midﬁelder Katharine
Lester notched a hat trick, and Leslie
Bogart, Natalya Hoobchaak, Erin
Rathbone, Amanda Strickler, Kelly
Taffe, and Lee Wheeler all had two
goals. Hoobchaak (3), Bogart (2),

Wheeler (2), and Laura Wilson (2) also
signiﬁcantly contributed in assists.

On Saturday, the Generals played
Virginia Wesleyan at home in the semi-
finals. “We’l1 tweak a few things, but
VW will certainly do everything it can
to slow down our ball movement, so
we’ll have to be ready to step up,”
said Coach Hathom heading into the
matchup. 1

The team got off to a tough start,
with VW scoring within the ﬁrst 59
seconds, but it then rebounded with
a 4-0 run had a 5 point surge to lead
9-3 at halftime. Taffe led the team in
scoring with four goals and one as-
sist, followed closely by Bogart with
two goals and three assists, and
Hoobchak with three goals.
Goaltender Joanna Perini had 13
saves. .

On Sunday, Washington & Lee
won its 15th straight game beating
Roanoke 11 to 7 to win the Old Do-
minion Athletic Conference women’s
lacrosse championship.

The Maroons started off the

9:1;
<—'wvn2¢-a.<,«., ,,
‘:f'.vx¥ vivﬁyyﬁxv

éuuxwvnzvnion
W4 61»-v2u4,u.orp;;4 -1’ 14-1
. ,if¢a»»4~o«1uv»as»

Corn‘ (JABBARD/THE RING-T’l‘u;\1 PH1

SCORE. Kelly Taffe attempts to score during Saturday’s game.
iscoring but were quickly answered by

four goals from the Generals. In all,
Kelly Taffe and Lee Wheeler led the
team with, three goals a piece and
Leslie Bogart scored one goal with
four assists. Erin Rathborne scored
twice, and junior Joarma Perini played
well in goal with nine saves.

“We came in with a strong
mindset and confident attitude,”
freshman attacker Laing Humphries
said. “It seemed like a solid contribu-
tion by everyone, and it was just an
overall good performance.”

This win tied the school record
for wins in a season (15), and it means
that the lacrosse team will have an
automatic bid to the NCAA Division
III Tournament.

“Making it to the national tour-
nament has been a goal of ours from
the beginning, so it should prove ex-
citing to see what we accomplish and
where we go,” Humphries added.

Washington and Lee (15-1) will
play again on Saturday at noon when
it hosts Longwood.

3
Bl

  

    

 
  

 
 
   

 Fnagﬁeid   4  rax.ﬁaa$.* emanate 

 Slzllni ﬁliilii §€ZI§§3‘§%{1Li°E

mt

  enema  

9%

. ‘5 11;? §lliIrmou:3..s&m— 'i:Mll1€slaIvﬁ.‘.::£lF§ﬁ" :n5-,;a1_.-

 enema Q    t-lawn inlet-tea  ?l3i§3‘“a 

m
95

LL
9-

 

 

RELAX, REFRESH, RENEW.

 

Cascades Day Spa is NOW OPEN and accepting appointments for body and skin care.
We provide a professional and educational environment for your total well being.
Cascades Day Spa is located in the newest building in the rear of Magnolia Square.

I

We are also pleased to announce a Grand Opening Celebration
Tuesday April 29th, with a ribbon cutting at 10 am.
Come by for a tour and relaxing sample treatments.

CASCADES

DAY,/V—-&®,;sPA

For an appointment, please call 540.463.2888 or visit the spa located at
40 Magnolia Square Way, Suite 4, off Lee Hwy N., Lexington

air

)1

I

 

 

I

-t

 

R1.

Alumni S cam ,

BY KYLE WASS
ASSOCIATE EDITOR

A This past weekend, Washington andLee alumni from the
class of 1953 celebrated their ﬁftieth reunion, and graduates
from many other classes attended the reunion festivities.

While all alumni were welcome in Lexington, events
were specially geared toward classes celebrating reunions
from a class ending in ‘3 ’ or in ‘8’; members of these classes
were “Reunionists.” Speciﬁcally for the classes celebrat-
ing their ﬁftieth and twenty-ﬁfth reunions — the classes of

p 1953 and 1978, respectively — there were Reunion Calyx

Knementos prepared. These included bits of information
about the years of 1953 and 1978 at W&L, as well as be-
fore and after photos of graduates along with a brief biog-
raphy of what the graduates’ lives are like now.

,4, The alumni reunion events began on Thurs., May ,1,
although the class of 1953 was welcome at the Greenbriar
Resort in White Sulphur Springs, W.Va.beginning on
Mon., April 28. Events on Thursday included tours of the
‘campus, a class of ‘53 memorial service at Lee Chapel,

‘several receptions, and the Opening ,Assembly for Re-

union 2003 at Lee Chapel. At the assembly, President

Thomas Burish welcomed all the alumni, and the Omicron '

Delta Kappa Spring Initiation was held. The assembly
I {was followed by a reception in Lee House with the presi-
dent. Over the course of the rest of the weekend, alumni
participated in events such as Reunion Seminars on “Pon-
dering Tomorrow,” where alumni “discuss[ed] the future
Afrom a variety of perspectives,” according to the alumni
Web site. There were also outing club activities, a jour-
nalism exposé, a ﬁtness center open house and a number
of sports games for alumni to watch. However, Tom Lovell
“(‘9l), the Assistant Director of Alumni Relations, said that
the most participation is traditionally for the Saturday
evening Alumni Celebration.
Lovell said that W&L had “more than 800 alumni re-
 ‘(turning for the weekend, with more than 1800 participants
in the weekend events.” He said that even for the alum-
nae only 5 or 10 years out, the physical state of the univer-
sity is much different. “Sorority row is new for nearly ev-
eryone,” he said.
>( For the older classes, Lovell noted that women alumni
was certainly a change. Sam Perkins (‘80, ‘83L), one of the
local founders of Chi Psi fraternity, said that there is “j ust
as much construction now as in_ 1976!” He also com-
mented that, although there were no women attending
' ‘classes at Washington and Lee, “we just had to import
them,” so having women on campus does not feel like a
big difference.
Washington and Lee students may be interested to
Alcnow that Perkins felt that it is a “widely held opinion”
among most of his group of alurrmi that “getting rid of
spring term is a terrible idea.”

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

NG-TUM

PHI

  

‘ :.siv‘*f.ts*t at   ~
“ "“‘ .‘,‘/A mm

The Itztdem‘ voice of War/raglan and Lee Utiivertzh time 7897 (D

T
 EB BROOKS / T/ie K1/lg-ti/I/I P/Jz

  

GLORY DAYS. (Top) President Thomas Burish’s SUV advertises the
Kathekon and Order of Omega carwash to improve I-81 Saturday.
(Middle) Two alumni from the class of ‘68 chat  a Saturday
afternoon tailgate (Bottom) Trevor Norris ‘95 stands withjeapordyfs
Alex Trebec Norris has been onjeapordy ﬁve times in the past year
and will be on this week’s Tournament of Champions  Torn
Madison,‘53 litom]acl<sonvIlle,Fla tookabreakﬂ7omFrveStarGenetal
activities to try on a jacket at Alvin—Dennis Saturday afternoon.

»»   eeia1£s:hmw>iu;.--

“with it both a

i world’s leading

4 tute in Stockholm,

BY CALEY ANDERSON

‘' ASSISTANT OPINIONS EDITOR

Senior Patrick Lawler, a pre-med
student, has been selected as one of
the few American students to receive

,(a Fulbright scholarship. His area of

medical interest is heart disease, and
the honor of be-
ing a Fulbright
scholar carries

$22,000 stipend,
and the chance to
study abroad
with some of the

experts on heart
disease at the
' Karolinska Insti-

Sweden.

Lawler ex-
pressed great in-
terest in working
with the project leader, Dr. Goran
Hansson, a well known scientist in the
ﬁeld of atherosclerosis research, and
a member of the committee that de-
cides the Nobel Prize in the ﬁelds of
“Physiology or Medicine.” “He does
good research, obviously, so it’ll be a
great opportunity to study under
him,” said Lawler.

+ Lawler, a Kappa Sigma oﬂicer, is

highly respected by many at W&L.
“Patrick is extremely even tempered and
he’s not easily ruﬁled by things. He

. handles adversity very well,” said Erich
.4. .
Uffelman, an associate professor of

chemistry. “Among the things that stand
out about Patrick is that, for his age, he ’s
a very mature, sensible and reliable per-

V‘ son and has great loyalty to people. A

lotofpeopletrusthimagreatdp .”
Lawler’s work for the 2003-04 aca-
demic year will largely be devoted to

4 participating in a team that will under-

take serious research into vascular im-
munology. The team will consist of sci-

 

entists from around the globe, and, of
course, Lawler himself. Lawler gives
no small portion of the credit for his
success to the Washington & Lee com-
munity- “The factl did [get the scholar-
ship] is really due to the help I’ve re-
ceived ﬁom my friends, family, research
advisors and professors,” he said.

Lawler’s interest in cardiovascu-

lar research is due to the extreme im-

pact of the disease in modern society.

“I became fascinated by heart disease
during my experience volunteering in
Stonewall Jackson Hospital’s emer-
gency room, its cardiac rehabilitation
unit and as a member of the Lexington
Rescue Squad,” Lawler said. “One of
the greatest current challenges to medi-
cal science is heart disease. . ..In many
countries, as in the U.S., cardiovascu-
lar disease, or CVD, claims more lives
than any other cause of death.

. “That’s also the case in Sweden,
where between 46 and 47 percent of
mortality is due to diseases of the cir-
culation organs,” he added. “What’s
interesting is the diversity of risk fac-
tors that contribute to this trend.
Lifestyles vary throughout the world,
causing each country to struggle with
CVD in its own way,” he said.

And what are his future plans?
“I’m going to get an M.D. and a Ph.D.

 

FLAK

from McGill Faculty of Medicine in
Montreal. That’s a seven year pro-
gram I’ve been accepted into. After
more residency and research fellow-
ship training I’m planning on.becom-
ing a cardiologist and biomedical re-
searcher—treating patients and do-
ing research,” Lawler said.

’ Linking his
experience to a
current campus
hot topic, Lawler
stated his belief
that none of his
success in this
ﬁeld would have
been possible
without the expe-
riences and ad-
vantages pro-
vided to him by
the Spring Term
system. My in-
terest in study
abroad was only
facilitated by a biology trip I took to
Costa Rica to study tropical botany
during Spring Term my freshman year;
both in terms of sparking an interest,
and making my application more com-
petitive for the Fellowship. Also, the
experience has helped me get into
medical school. When I interviewed
at Harvard Medical School, for ex-
ample, one of the interviewers told me
that the fact that I had studied abroad
would be really helpful to my applica-
tion. McGill Faculty of Medicine in
Montreal (where I’ll go after Sweden)
told me the same thing. I Without
spring term, science majors don’t have
the opportunities for specialized
study abroad—a signiﬁcant strength

that makes our school’s course offer-

ings “the envy of larger institu-
tions”——as missing classes tends to
interrupt the cadence of the pre.med
course schedule. Also, my
coursework in Endocrinology, Para-
sitology and independent research in

       

 “Flak, Lawler win prestigious awards

‘.

microbiology were all factors that
made me competitive for the Fellow-
ship and medical school, but that
would not have been available to me
if Spring Term were abolished.”
Another W&L student to win a
prestigious scholarship this Spring is
Agnes Flak. Flak, a senior double
majoring in journalism and theatre,
was recently named a Thomas J.
Watson fellow. The award carries with
it a $22,000 stipend. This Fellowship
will allow Flak to examine the world-

wide‘problem known as “forced dis- -

placement,” otherwise known as the
problem of reﬁrgees, individuals who
are forced to emigrate or ﬂee their na-
tive countries due to war, ideology,
natural disaster or any other host of
catastrophes.

Flak, herself an immigrant ﬁom Po-
land to Germany following the fall of
the Soviet Union, will study this issue
by living among displaced and migrant
peoples who have been tom from their
native lands. She will visit six different
areas affected by forced displacement,
including the Balkans, Tanzania, Kenya,
Sri Lanka, Australia (a nation which re-
ceives many refugees for the purposes
of sending them off to another desired
country) and Mexico.

Flak, proﬁcient in seven lan-
guages (ﬂuent in ﬁve), cares deeply
about the problem she plans to study.
Besides her own history in the chaotic
experiences of a Polish immigrant to
post-Cold War Germany, Flak has lived
twice in rural Bolivia as a part of the
Shepherd program, experiencing ﬁrst-
hand the conditions of the third world.

An international student from her
adopted home of Germany, Flak has
found W&L to “open many doors.”
She cited the accessibility of W&L
faculty and the wide variety of pro-
grams and organizations on campus
as keys to her success.

Both Lawler and Flak will gradu-
ate this June.

eunite, u art

MONDAY, MAY 5, 2003

  

_]EB BROOKS / T/ze R1'll(g~fIII)/P/J1

Charity ball debuts this month

BY ERIN JULIUS
SPORTS EDITOR

A new affair is being added to
Spring Term’s social calendar. Spring
2003 ushers in the Charity Ball for
Cystic Fibrosis, the brain-child of
sophomore Jonathan Leﬂer. The Ball,
to be held May 9 from 8 p.m.- ll p.m.
in Evans Dining Hall, is meant to,
“better the school ’s image within the
community and create an opportu-
nity outside of FD for the student
body as a whole to go dancing and
have a formal affair,” said Leﬂer, the
principle organizer of the event.

Entertainment for the Ball will
be provided by the Charlottesville
Swing Orchestra. Music from the
Big Band Era——swing, jazz and rag-
time will be performed. “The ﬁrst
rule about dancing in the nineteenth
century was that you (didn’t) have
to do it right, you just (had) to enjoy
it,” said Leﬂer, “it should be a fun
evening.”

According to Leﬂer, the event
is being hailed as the Independent
students’ formal.

The idea for the Ball came to
Leﬂer in the fall when he was talking

to some friends about how there
aren’t enough chances for the stu-
dent body to ask each other out.
“Also, around Homecoming, I heard
some freslnnen complaining about
how there was no dance,” he said.

Hors d’oeuvres and desserts
will be served and the community of
Lexington is invited. Press releases
about the event have appeared in
two Rockbridge County newspa-
pers and Alvin-Dennis is displaying
a ﬂyer about the event.

Several organizations are at-
tached to the Ball. The Committee
for the Charity Ball for the Beneﬁt of
Cystic Fibrosis is in charge of plan-
ning. The Nabors Service League
donated $1000 to the cause to pay
for refreshments and SOAR is also
helping out with the event.

The current plan is to make this
Ball an armual affair, although Leﬂer
said that there had to be a trial pe-
riod of two years before any deci-
sions were made. The committee’s
goal is for 100 people to attend.

V Cystic Fibrosis is a genetic,
potentially fatal disease affecting

SEE BALL, PAGE 5

Fifth service day approaches

BY CHRIS LAUDERMAN
STAFF RRITER

Saturday, May 10 marks the
ﬁﬁh armual Nabors Service Day.

Ashley Thompson ‘04 and Pe-
ter Thompson ’O3 are co-chairing
Nabors Service Day. Last year 200-
250 participated in the even . “Our
goal is to have more faculty involve-
ment this year,” commented chair
Ashley Thompson. Since its con-
ception, Nabors Service Day has
been entirely student run and most
of the participatants in the day’s
events are students. Jonathan’s par-

ents come every year to speak to the
students that are contributing their
time. In the past, their speeches have
been very moving and a highlight of
the day. Thompson also announced
that this year the first annual
McLaughlin Award will be presented.
Many activities have been
planned for this year’s day of ser-
vice. The chairs have been working
with Jeri Schaff, Executive Director
at United Way, to set up the organi-
zations where Washington and Lee
students will be working. Two car

SEE NABORS, PAGE 5

 

  

DREII r. IXIRWAN

OPINIONS EDHOR
EMAr;iqRwANB@wr1irDU
MONDAY, MAY 5,2003

 

Cut costs to save Spring Term

The sad truth is that Washington and Lee
can simply no longer afford Spring Term. With-
out an inﬂux of approximately $55 million or
$2.5 million per year, Washington Hall cannot
afford to hire enough new teachers to maintain
the class size and quality of education on which
the school prides itself.

Therefore, some belt-tightening measures
are necessary. We are glad to see that the D-
Hall is already making effort to cut costs by
using lower quality meat. Here are some other
suggestions.

One key area in which the school hemor-
rhages money is utilities. For starters, the Will-
iams School and the Science Center are grossly
over-air conditioned. Also, the Colonnade Cam
(which no one everwatches) and the bells in

 

’ necessary electricity.

Similarly, the drought has long been over
and the Front Lawn no longer needs to be wa-
tered with such frequency. In'fact, since the
school is in such dire straights, perhaps money
should no longer be spent to aerate, fertilize
and mow the lawn.

Opportunities for cost-cutting abound in
Laetitia Pate. W&L could probably save mil-
lions by eliminating the fro-yo machine alone
(and improve freshmen girls’ health). Also, they
could remove the ham from Chicken Cordon
Bleu. Imagine how much less costly each piece
of chicken ‘n cheese is.

Personnel cuts promise a bigger bang. The
new Vice-President for Administration, direc-
tor of University Collections and Burr Datz could
all be selectively non-rehired. The University
could also stop creating positions for recently
graduated alurrmi and fire all security guards
except Baner and Rexrode.

How about eliminating J avapalooza, all fra-
temities who failed to attract more than ﬁve

like SOAR, KEWL and GSA? Perhaps we
could sever ties with the Law School, change
our name to Washington and Lee College and
save money on letterhead.

If Spring Term is to be saved, the school

money. The Phi is eager to assist in this money-
saving endeavour.

Washington Hall and Lee Chapel eat up un- _

freshmen this year and EC funding to groups .

THE RiN<3-run PHI

On May 1, 2003, President Bush
signed into law a bill formally known
as the “Protect Act of 2003 ,” but which
has come to be known as the “Amber
Alert” bill. The nickname is derived
from the memory of a Texas girl, Amber
Hagennan, who, in 1996, was abducted
from her family and murdered.

The bill itself should appear to most
Americans as a perfectly ordinary and
laudable piece oflegislation. It greatly en-
hances penalties for child abduction and
youth sex crimes, bolsters the funding of
missing—child recognition programs, and
cracks down on child pomography. Most
importantly, it puts into eﬁect the “Amber
Alert’ ’program Thisprogramwilluse ra-
dio, television, billboards and the emer-
gency broadcast system to notify regions
of missing children in the  48-hour
period following abduction; a time, law-
makers say, when the child is most at risk
and most likely to be found

All these things are good ideas.
But the story of the bill is one of arnaz-
ing amounts of opposition and lack
of cooperation. The idea behind the
bill came from the families of kid-
napped and murdered children, and it
was widely thought in the Congress
that the bill would pass easily. But
some members of the House refused
to pass the bill unless pork-barrel rid-
ers to the bill were added on. Ordi-
narily, a few of these blockaders
would not be a problem, but one of
them, James Sensenbrenner (R-Wis.),
was a member of the House Judiciary
Committee. He, the Republican leader,
along with the co-
operation of the
equally pro-pork
barrel Democrats

PINIONS
Pork politics slowd Ambe bill

MoDERATE’s MUSINGS
CALEY ANDERSON ‘O6

PHOTO COLRTESY uawwhtebouiegoo

FINALLY. President Bush, with the Smart family, at the signing of the Amber Act.

which United States citizens have come
to expect from their government. Stall-
ing and pork-barrel politics have be-
come commonplace. But we have rea-
son to be uplifted, and to have a re-
newed faith in our government alter the
events regarding
this particular bill.
Outrage and
criticism came to the

on the committee

I (especially Rep. Conyers, D-Mich.),

were effectively able to stall the bill’s
passage, refusing to let it pass com-
mittee until unnecessary regional
spending bills were tacked on to it.
Obviously, it is this sort of action

House from all
angles— families of kidnapped chil-
dren, members of the Senate, and even
President Bush angrily demanded that
Sensenbrenner and the Judiciary Com-
mittee allow the legislation to go for-
ward. Members of the House from both

parties pleaded with the Judiciary Com-
mittee to pass the bill. Under pressure
ﬁom both parties, the Committee ﬁnally
relented and allowed the bill to be voted
on, and it of course passed easily.

I offer you this story as a piece of
hope for the future of government.
There are politicians who use ques-
tionable ethics to get ahead, and who
use tactics similar to those used by the
members of the Judiciary Committee,
but when the chips are ‘down, our gov-
ernment works. The House stepped
up and demanded justice, and this criti-
cal bill passed. It shows you the things
we can accomplish when the parties
work together for a common cause.

  

will need to look forvcreative ways ‘to’-save  A

 
  

  te of the Week

“lt’s time for Democrats to be Democrats to
be Democrats.”

~Democ1atic presidential candidate and
rabble rouser Rev. Al Sharpton (D-N.Y.)

 

Founder J . Sam Slicer, 1898L
Editor in chief KatieJ. Howell
Associate Editor Jeb G. Brooks
2nd Associate Editor Kyle Wass
Opinions Editor Brett T. Kirwan
Asst. Opinions Editor CaleyAnderson
Arts & Life Editor Catherine C. Guy
Asst. Arts & Life Editor Megan Morgan
Sports Editor Erin E. Julius
Asst. Sports Editor Donny Banks
Photographers CodyGabbard
Sreya Banerjee

Business Manager
Circulation Director
AdvertisingAssistant

Thomas Worthy
Henry Grimball
McQueen Calvert

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee Univer-
sity, Lexington, Virginia. The Washington and Lee Publi-
cations Board elects the Editor in chief, but The Ring-tum
Phi is otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible submis-
sions and letters. All submissions must be e—mailed to
phi@wlu.edu or in the University Center mailbox by 5
p.m. Friday to appear in the following week’s edition. The
Ring-tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for con-
tent and length. Letters and columns do not necessarily re-
ﬂect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Ad-
vertising does not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi
or its staff. This newspaper observes current court deﬁni-
tions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum‘ Phi
Mailing Address: University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Street Address: 31 Washington Street
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Telephone.‘ (540) 462-4060
Fax: (540) 462-4059
Email: phi@wlu.edu
http://phi.wIu.edu

(

Letter to the Editor

Kirwan wrong on morality of abortion

DearEditor,

Brett T. Kirwan has difficulty in stating his posi-
tion clearly (“Peterson case exposes abortion’s falla-
cies,” April 28), so let me state it for him. He believes
that babies can be (a)_in utero, or unborn, and (b) ex
utero, or born. Since the fact of being in one place rather
than another (i.e., mere geographic location) is irrel-
evant to babyhood, it follows that the moral prohibi-
tion on murdering babies applies to babies wherever
they may be. Therefore the moral prohibition on mur-
dering babies applies tobabies in utero.

' Now, whether or not this is a sound argument, it
is a distraction, and a silly one, to argue that pro-
abortionists believe that “unborn children are not hu-
man (beings).” It is a necessary condition for
someone’s being an unborn child that she is a human
being. According to Kirwan, pro-abortionists are in
the position of believing that human beings are not
human beings.

Since this is a ﬂat contradiction, applying the prin-
ciple of charity of interpretation requires that we do not
ascribe this belief to them if there is another interpreta-
tion available that is consistent with other things that
they say and that is not a ﬂat contraduction. I suggest
that they believe that what Kirwan calls “human be-
ings” are not human beings. Or, if he prefers, that what
he calls “unbom children” are not children. Or, if he
prefers again, that what he calls “babies in utero” are
not babies. They believe that Kirwan is mistaken in his
application of the terms “human being” and “child”
and “baby”. So, to state their position correctly, pro-
abortionists “believe that not-children (or not-babies)
are not human beings.” This is not a ﬂat contradiction.
Another way of putting this is to say that they believe
that embryos or fetuses are not human beings, or not
babies, or not children.

Is there a way to resolve this disagreement about
the appication or meaning of the term “human being,”
“child,” or “baby?” Not directly, I would suggest. Cer-
tainly, not in a newspaper article or a letter to the editor.
However, let me offer the following observations about
the pro-abortion position.

There are at least three pro-abortion arguments.
One argument is that the moral prohibition on murder-

 ACK: v  

“the beauty of the campus”

-Archer Frierson ‘73 -Bob Priddy ‘67

“no Saturday classes”

ing babies doesn’t apply to sorri'e“E:"2'ises“'c’>'f l<'ilIfn5g"’b'ﬁ3"""
bies, because some cases of killing babies are nofcasés  ~
of murdering babies. To give a deliberately far-feteched

example, if a baby is threatening my life, say, because
she is crawling towards a device that will set off a
nuclear bomb, and the only way to stop her from set-
ting off the bomb is by killing her, then it may be per-
missible to kill her, i.e., it may be permissible to kill a
baby in self-defense. This applies to cases of life-threat-
ening pregnancies.

The situation is more complicated in the case of
health-threatening pregnancies (e. g., if I have this baby,
I will never be able to have any more babies). If some-
one is threatening my health only, not my life, may I kill
her, if my options are restricted to either letting her
damage me, or killing her outright? People disagree here.
However, I certainly don’t see an argument that it is
obviously morally wrong to kill her, rather than, say,
lose the use of my legs. But it may nevertheless be
wrong. The point is that it is not obvious and that people
have arguments for an against. That said, there are abor-
tions that are not performed to protect the health of the
mother, even if that is the reason given.

Another pro-abortion argument is that the moral pro-
hibition on murdering babies does not apply to embryos
and fetuses, because they are not babies. According to
this argument, it is logically impossible to murder an em-
bryo or a fetus, just like it is logically impossible to mur-
der a cat. You can indeed kill a cat, but you can’t murder
a cat. This is the argument that relies upon the distinc-

tion I outlined above. And the truth of that distinction is, '

as I said, ‘not directly resolvable.

The third argument is the most commonly misstated
argument, even by the pro-abortionists themselves. This
is the argument that a woman may do what she wants
to her own body, in the sense that she can cut off her
own leg if she wants to. This argument would then be-
come the following: a woman may do what she wants to
that which is inseparable from her own body. Since
embryos and fetuses are inseparable from her body,
she may do what she likes to them. This third argument
is probably the weakest of the lot, not because of the
moral reasoning, which is actually defensible, but be-
cause of the factual claim that an embryo or fetus is

SEE LETTERS, PAGE 4

pg. .
“different restaurants”
-David Stoveall ‘69

“it’s more sedate”
-Ron Gold ‘7 3

PAGE 2

Ramsey reflects on
|ove’s labors lost

Admonishes Adonises to be careful ,

X

Recent happenings have caused me to write
a completely different type of piece for this week.
I have decided to stray entirely from my usual
banter about political happenings and on-carrﬁ‘
pus goings-on.

Instead I feel compelled to share some
thoughts on something far more personal. Mat-
ters of the heart have been a focus of thought fog
weeks, and I really need an outlet for what is in
my head. ,

Perhaps it is the time of year, perhaps it is a
sign of feeling a bit older and wiser at the end of
my college days, or perhaps these are just some
things that have been in my head all along, but
have been lost along the way until now. Or even
still, maybe it is a hodgepodge of all of these
things. This is just

 
 

is.
one young man’s --~—-——~l
musings, but I LEFTOF CENTER
h°P° it “an be °f NICK RAMSEY ‘03

some use to others
as well. 4‘

Love and attraction to me seem things that
exist on multiple levels and progress with the
passing of time in a relationship. However, their
genesis can truly show how sound such feelings
are and can serve as the basis of whether or not
these feelings are to be trusted. Always they are
not as the heart fails to be the most honest of
companions.

Relationships often begin with a physical ath‘
traction coupled with a love ofthe idea ofa per-
son. This conjured idea can be both beautiful
and dangerous. I believe there are ways to dis-
cern the difference. ‘

As one gets to know another, something must
be discovered to illustrate that the idea of this
person is more than that. There are glimmers seen
through the window of a person’s soul that let
you know this idea you have fallen in love with
is exactly who this person is.

From time to time, and in the most remarkable
of instances, these soulful insights reveal that
this person is indeed much more than your origi-
nal idea.

When this occurs, the affection of another is
truly worth pursuing. This is not to say that this
pursuance will always end in success, but none-
theless there are things to be learned from even

"'~'tl—-re«=harsh*est of romantic failures. This is where
‘ .’c“.‘o11ra‘;g‘e makes its entrance. These things are

never easy. A,

Honesty in matters of the heart is always the
best and only road to travel. A confession to this
special person of the things observed should be
shared. Gifts of ﬂowers, books and collections
of one’s favorite music can only do so much td‘
express true feelings. An honest word is the tru-
est of all communicators.

The facets of another that prove the idea
that has been loved are very explicit. They rum
far deeper than commonplace interests such as,
“We like all the same books, movies, foods,
etc.” Often these facets of a person’s true self
lie in shared hopes, dreams, worries and ideas
of faith.

Moreover, under the guise of infatuation, ev-
eryone thinks the other is a caring and signifi-
cant individual. However, proof of these_things
can only really come from their words and ac;
tions. Only then can one be sure that this person
is sincerely a loving and selﬂess person who,
can not only love you, but can be loved by you
as-well.

At this point you have to lay your heart out’
for either acceptance or rejection. Sadly, I know
of no case where there is a middle ground. This
is not to say that love is the immediate result
when your heart is accepted. '

is the step where affection can begin to grow".
and some day possibly become a love. But if this
step is never realized at all, then a relationship
can never progress beyond a superficial level.

Now I am sure that those of you who read.»
these thoughts would think they make a hope-
less romantic of me. You would be right. You would
also be right in thinking that this leads to more
heartbreak in life. To that I ask if your heart can-
not be broken, then what is it for? ”

And when heartbreak does occur, I merely
stop and scratch my head. I learn from these ro-
mantic suicides and take a pause before moving
on with life, looking still.

Lastly, I will close by saying this is one of
those times when I need to take my own advice.

  

“campus stores”
-Rust Cadwallader ‘98

 

 

 

PGWER. o1=

Inspired A.rt:'s't-ry

Accelerated Accieptance

Tme.<au:,«, any 5, 2903 at 5:30 _;J.m.
25% "1T"uin‘rm Discmustftrr Firs: }r’e::r*
RSVP at 226-4223

To be or not to be a graduate st dent? If you a ready j_-1§m_E_g; In our brand new pmscenlum theatre Y be or
to start your masters degree, the Regent University" not to be a Regent, grad ate stude. t? Come find out
School of Commu cation and t .e Arts wants you In be May 6th.

a part of the fail ‘03 class. ' .'s not {no 1315:. Just attend
3;" Agfesggjéggeftance eve t 0" Mag 6? **S|‘~'P Accelerated Acceptance

V ca n . V - '0 reserve your spa an rece we _ _

your admissions checkiistl You may even receive a Man’? Vs’ 2003 5'30 p'm'
twenty-fEve- pe ca 1 cﬂscount off the first years tuition. 25 /5 T3530“ DISCO" ||1*
Comptete the admissions interview du ng the event RSVP at 228-4228

and receive a free ticket to see Regent's production at

lutnmlnndacoaauIx)nn1>|44.|.naa.IxzazaAA44-IA n..uu;a;uuu.muzxm. 00444-x )xxxuzxA*t.o.n4c4-1-11:124.: 4 It44-1-1xxxA.AA.d.n.o~A-a»1»xxxx.4A.a.4Jboo»:n-1xx~zu4.a,a.A.4.Aa : n»)x:41.l.I.r0oc¢ . nu“ A>.oAh.¢.:.xxxxx-A-LLo.t.o.orlzxxxll-Ann

* Discount for first year anly arm avmilabls only to appiicsétnts who app-iy at thls mm.

ﬂuent |Jf!'I'BlIN)"I adieu; pscumrgthe namksbnarsmnemnulatn mm nduhn mnemaxxmtua nmapglled no ptsulatamru maul hwy humaol‘rau.,/Hut. Mi$n,.;ﬂnur,
aiullxymnubmlunhutauln mamauuoumgikmaaiudtymecawiuaboivmtai@ao¢mnEauhunAImdﬂnndDa!aﬁamu&:hods|)1H£§nLuamuM.Do&.BI
$1133-ID9v1E Idtwau wmbu 4ama'rs45o::nu lit‘ the Honcho’; mutant‘! and them‘: dawns

        

  

’%§a:%;f§;%°’§ ’

7 East Beverley Street - Staunton, VA_ # 540-886-8666 6- Hours: Mo‘n-Sat: 10am-9pm; Sun: 12am-6pm

    

PAGE 4

Alcohol policy
needs reform

Surprise, surprise. Despite their well-intentioned ef-
forts, the administration and the Alcohol Task F orce’s
much-exalted new alcohol policy has failed to produce
any real results. In fact, as, our esteemed competition,
The Trident, reported last Wednesday, DUI arrests have
not declined at all. More disturbingly, the first year of
the new policy saw a near doubling in the number of DUI
arrests— up to 23.

Dean Howison attributes this gross failure to the long
memories of older students. One assumes that once an
entire generation of students has become accustomed to
the new policy, DUI ar-
rests will fall. He could
be right; it is no doubt
those memories of the
“old days” that cause
students to drive drunk. What is more nostalgic than a
spirited drive through the country with a beer in hand and
a dozen or so empties behind you? '

Alas, the awful “alcohol culture” of W&L might be
self-perpetuating and new students will only become ac-
customed to returning from the country after playing a
few games of Beirut, rather than come to appreciate the
gravity of the three—strike system.

A more healthy policy might be for the administration
to abandon its hopes for the new policy, stop relying on
excuses about “lingering memories” and return to a sys-
tem that does not encourage parties to be held out in the
country.

The consequences of the two systems should, by
now, be blatantly obvious. Under the old system, stu-
dents could play drinking games in the fraternity houses.
Some houses even held Beirut toumaments— the horror!
When the night was ﬁnished, students stumbled back to
their dorms and off-campus houses. Under the new sys-
tem, students travel to the country to play drinking games,
drink just as much and then have to return home. Traveller
is an excellent system, but is clearly inadequate to handle
the number of students and number of locations at which
parties are held.

Similarly, as the Phi reported in September, the new
policy has been ineffective at decreasing the number of
alcohol-related student visits to the infirmary. In total, the
new alcohol policy can boast drastically increasing the
number of DUI arrests and having little or no effect on the
students drinking to excess.

So, what can be done? A prudent compromise, which
would bring together the best and least harmful aspects
of the two systems, would be to retain the three-strike
system and to once again permit drinking games in the
fraternity houses. The three strike system should be re-
tained because it is a clear and proportional punishment
scheme that deals quickly and decisively with students
who abuse alcohol.

1 However, the increase in DUI arrests shows that pun-
ishments are notenough. If drinking games were again
permitted in the fraternity houses, there would no longer

     
 

 _. RIGHT or THE AISLE
 BRErrT.KiRw. ‘O4

UPINIONS r"rrc‘e

PHOTO (1 it i<'rr.<\' I/I'll/ll/./7/l_Q‘ht’1'77l/.0I(Y>7

BEIRUT. Beer pong should return to the fraternity houses.

be a reason for students to travel to the country to party.
Naturally, there would be fewer students placing them-
selves and others in danger by driving home drunk.

It’s time to recognize that the new alcohol policy sirn—
ply is not working, however well-intentioned it may have
been. The administration and the student body need to be
honest about what has and has not worked under the new
policy and need to be willing to experiment with new solu-

lC101'1S.

CORRECTIONS from Issue l,April 28, 2003

major cities without clear governance.”

The Staff Editorial, “Play WLUR in the Co-op,” may have given some the impression that the radio station,
the Phi and The Trident are part of the Journalism Department. In fact, they are not.

The “Quote of the Week” read “We have major cities with clear governance.” It should have read “We have

Tax cuts in line with Founding

In 1966, the Farmer’s Almanac
quipped, “If Patrick Henry thought
that taxation without representation
was bad, he should see how bad it is
with representation.”

In today’s tax-and-spend society,
it seems as though Farrner’s got it
right. When the Patriots dumped a
caseload of tea into the Boston Har-
bor in 177 3, they were protesting taxa-
tion without representation, to be
sure. But their actions had a deeper
signiﬁcance. The patriots made a bold
and radical statement about the own-
ership of government revenues: tax
money belonged to first and foremost
to the subjects of the government
(makes sense, they’re the ones that
earned it, right?).

Certainly, a certain amount of taxa-
tion was necessary to provide for
common needs, such as infrastructure
and defense. However, since it was
evidently their money, the citizens of
the New World wanted a say in how it
was to be spent. Though the circuin—
stances have changed, this principle
remains steadfast.

It’s too bad the politicians in
Washington have forgotten that.

Apparently, somewhere between

1773 and 2003 the politicians have for-
gotten that the tax money belongs to
the people, not to the government.
Mitch Daniels, the Di-
rector of the Office of
Management and
Budget, said it best
when he described the
pervading sentiment in the Capitol as
“Don’t just stand there, spend some-
thing.”

The current debate over whether
or not to cut taxes highlights this sen-

 
 

ml.0HN.,fiE.iIti..fQ4l._._

LETTERS i«'i<oM PAGE. 3

SENATORS N0. Senators Snowe, R-Maine  and Voiriovich. li’.-Ohio (if; oppose
President Bush’s tax plan. Perhaps they are also at odds with the I9'uitii<,it-is

timent. The politicians are arguing as
to whether or not they can afford to
trust the American people with $550
billion in tax relief, or whether they
can only spare $350 billion to give to
the ordinary citizens. With the ﬁdu-

. ciary irresponsibility in Washington,

it should be the ordinary citizens who
worry whether or not they can trust
the politicians with any of their
money!

The liberals in Washington see
nothing wrong with taxing income
twice, or discouraging investment by
penalizing those who succeed in the
stock market. They are afraid of “dam—
aging” programs like
Social Security, wel-
fare, and farm subsi-
dies~— as though
these programs were
eased into existence by our very
Founding Fathers, and to gradually
move away from such federal hand-
outs would be the death knell of the
union.

#

i.\‘l)/‘.‘i‘,_1i J, ..;+J..2.> l

 

The liberals‘ collective il‘it3':"i'!0i‘}’ ’
must be incredibly short. Our .;«:»ui.i- ‘
try survived, prospered, and won sev - V
eral wars without the Cl‘E1Lll6—l0-Ag§‘2lYi;‘ ‘
care prescribed by the big Sp<:‘.li,d¢l‘f'§ i

in our government. What’s worse. th l5; "

collective memory must also be incred-

ibly selective. The vast mujoiity ot!
these programs were intended to be 
temporary relief during the (treat De» ‘
pression. Those who cry tlzat our 9'

govemment’s greatest duty is to pro-- f

tect the big—spending social wr:l:‘lrii-: ’‘
programs are either ignorant of l1i:.«-
tory, or choose to ignore it.

Our forefathers threw tea into the
Boston Harbor 230 years ago so iliiit I
we could elect persons to be respoir "
sible stewards of our money, who
could separate the gOV’€l‘1l‘ui1€i‘it’S'
needs from the governinent’s wants. ’
finance the essentials of our great
nation, and send the rest ‘back, '

As former Montana Governor
Marc Racicot said, “the tax-payers‘
never told us to keep the cliange.”

t
I

Kirwan responds.‘

Pro-abortion activists deny the hium/nitr o/‘c-liii-

inseparable from the mother. Breakthroughs in medical
technology have made separation possible.

I will conclude with the following thought. Morality
was never designed to deal with the case of embryos or
fetuses. It does pretty well with independent adults, less
well with children, and very poorly with dependent em-
bryos and fetuses. Hence, it is a bad start to believe that

dren in utero and do, in fact, believe “I/it/I it/iriimi
beings are not human beings. " Claiming that a jetizs
is not human is no different,/‘roni claiming that _\‘1)ll or‘
I am not human. From conception and in ‘y\7/1£.’{./;‘1’t:'}"'
form, blastocysts, embryoes and fetuses are lzzi/izaii and -
anytime one is killed, it s murder. Geogrpalii’ is indeed
a silly argument— a child is a child, in or out oft/’ze

Ring—tum Phi,
stickeri burn,

1'»

 
 

201 N.

included.

we are the men
from Lexington!

Does spring

to relax your

.  ir~..im3’r-ziising rag; . 
Futiaderiising dates rm: ﬁling; q_id—r.lv;ly

6c...a.....mpus

ﬁimr Ylrrm‘ :51)! Sc;iit.r¢:'"e_,"r.Ir {.’r.If!r;s_fsc.’ .i"'rt;n'x‘IraJi.*t-i 

838-923-32.33 o www.campu5iunr£:'ai.ser.com=

Separate Kitchen area, hardwood floors,
off—street parking, trash, water and heat

Please contact 464-9001 for information

have you stressed out?

Try a massage from Kelly Harris,
certified massage therapist,

254-

000000.0000000000000000000000000COOQOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO

 51.090-smoo fneyiourstudeixt Group

  

 

ﬂex this <.:.iiirw.Mhes.~.’~ ‘Ne :r=;:il¥li;~:. .|uslt am’-:ev.;«:¥
-Ext with the pweagxaera that ¥J£§f§;‘_5§

  

fM‘¥3 613

00000OOOOOOOOOOOOOOIOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOO

One Bedroom apartment available in
Beautifully restored Victorian Home

Randolph St. Bright and spacious,

No pets. $350. Available mid June.

and appointment to view.

term’s future

body and mind.

0063

   
 

there are obvious moral answers in these cases.

Sincerely,
James E. Mahoii, I -
Assistant Professor of Philosophy ’

wom b.

1 I - \

'Abortion proponents i/villful_ly=’and ('rinzinally igimre ’

 . ,, this fact to permit their assault on the sanctity Q,/i/rzmian

life.

 
 
  
  
 
 
  
  

  

 

  

    
 

#

CATIIERINECGUY
AK,,&L,,EEDm,R TEE RING-TLMP I
 RTS & IFE
MONDAY, MAY 5, 2003 PAGE 5;

~W&L’s greatest asset proves to be its umni, as seen this weekend 7

I spent most of this past recent spring break in the
South, on the University Jazz Ensemble tour of alumni
yggatherings. Cruising with the likes of Kerry Kellogg,
Justine Sessions, and the premier party animal, David
Klinger, we saw Charlotte, Atlanta, Birmingharri, Nashville,
Atlanta (again), and Chattanooga before we came
northbound back to-Lex Vegas. And in each one of these

‘ cities, we met a lot of alums.

As W&L students, we tend to think of
ourselves in a different world of academia,
not quite like all the other typical college

(kids at all those other typical schools
throughout the country. And there’s
certainly a lot of truth to that. Because of our unique history
and our distinct features (you know, the usual suspects:
the Greek system, our Honor System, our exam week

4‘ freedoms, our beloved Spring Term), you’ve have to be
blind to consider W&L just like every other school. Our
four years as undergraduate students are different from
most, making the W&L experience much more valuable.

I Not many go through the same experience as we, but
the alums have. Sure, they may not have shared all the
same features of Lexington as we have, since there are
living alums since before coeducation, since before spring
term, since before we stopped Division-1 athletics.

“ Nonetheless, we share a bond with alurrrni that we don’t
have with any other group of people — a bond formed by
memories of Fancy Dress, Mock Con, Lee Chapel, and all-
around general frattiness.

A After our gig at the Piedmont Driving Club (where
wearing a tux might be considered underdressing) in
Atlanta, Kerry Kellogg and I had a home-stay with David

   

Phillips, a Kappa Sig alum from the class of 1992. As if

letting us sleep in his beautiful Buckhead home was not
4 enough, David offered us a few drinks and stayed up a
few hours past his bedtime (he had to get up at 7 a.m. the
following morning) to entertain us. We sat down, the
three of us, and watched some shows on MTV, downed a
”‘ few beers, and complained about some W&L professors

ABSOLUTE FRATLORO
TIM SMITH ‘O4

— we could have just as easily been in a fraternity house
basement and not lcnown the difference.

Earlier in the evening, David and his wife took the
two of us out to eat at an Italian restaurant, buying us
dinner in another kind gesture toward two college kids
they hadn’t even met before. Joining us for dinner were
two SAE alums, also from the class of 1992, and their
wives. As we talked about W&L, and as I tried my best to
explain the current Spring Term debate, it
became distinctly clear to me that the
wives, who had not graduated from W&L,
could not really grasp the meaning of the
conversation. W&L was perhaps a little
foreign to them. They didn’t feel the connection.

At all the alumni gatherings for which we played, Rob
Mish, our university alumni director, made a quick speech
on the happenings in Lexington. In regards to the spring
term issue, he explained each time that President Burish
was getting an “education” on the unity and resolute
character ofW&L students and alumni. And Rob is exactly
right. It took the raising of the Spring Term question for
Tom Burish to ﬁnally ﬁgure out what W&L is all about. It’s
not his fault of course — he’s not an alurrmus. He never got
the privilege of enjoying the experience we students are
going through right now, and that’s his loss. Inevitably, he
will learn some things through osmosis, but perhaps in a
little bit more of a crash course than he expected.

By the time this article is published, Alumni Weekend
will have come and gone. To some students, it’s just
another weekend of cocktails and band parties, just like
many others. But to fall into this mindset is to cheapen
the most important asset that W&L has. More than the
students, more than the faculty, more than Tom Burish,
the W&L alumni make this university into the place we
love. They know all of the quirks, all of the fun there is to
be had, and, above all, they know what W&L truly means
to us. In the face of a generally ignorant population, the
alums are the only ones who understand and appreciate
our experiences and our lives as students at this place.

     

 BRO0l{S/ T/ieRz2z,g

  

HAIL To THE CHIEF: President and Mrs. Burish enjoy alumni weekend festivities along side of the University Commons.

It may at ﬁrst seem like a trivial thing, but the connection
is undeniable, like the bond between two lifelong friends. I
only spent 12 hours in the world of David Phillips, but with
the way we acted, we could have passed for neighbors or
relatives. We feel the connection in the classes we have
with alumni professors — when Professors Porter or Futch
mention the upcoming ﬁm of an approaching party weekend,
we smile, appreciating that they understand what it’s like to

be a student here. It’s a corriforting thing. It makes us
happy to be students at W&L. ‘

There’s one old cliché phrase that I’m sure most of us
know: It ’s not what you know, it’s who you know. Well,
there are thousands of W&L alumni throughout the

country. I’ll never get the chance to know them all. But 1
they lcnow me, and that makes the W&L experience that

much more special.

J11!/I P/J1 ,

Hull’s Drive-In reopens for spring  

“DuPont art gallery astounds

\
\

 

A

It was a photograph taken by a
camera, no doubt. And yet, it wasn’t
a mere photograph — it couldn’t be,
because the image portrayed was not
a realistic possibility. . .

At the
moment, there is a
superbly diverse
presentation of
students’ artworks

~‘~ in DuPont Hall. As

I entered the Museum of DuPont, I
noticed pop art, portraits and pastels,
photographs, paintings, and a

ON THE ARTS at

beautiful, what he considers art. And
we have such an amazing opportunity
at this school — we know the people
who created these works of art. They
are our peers — one of the artists could

be the guy next to you
this moment,
reading the Sports

I Um LEIGH B1RDwELL‘03 section of the Phi. Art

is an expression of our
inner selves and to find a work of art
to be striking makes a certain kind of
unexplainable connection with the
artist.

4

background. The use of color and the
contrast between the dark fence and
the sunset-colored background were
what ‘struck’ me most. The
background was so diverse that this
work was also pure imagination and
unrealistic as a photograph
representation of real life.

Maybe this is the role of digital
art — _ to change the role of
photography as realistic
representation to. . .well, something
else. Yet, this sounds oddly and
ironically familiar, eh? Such as,

A sculpture of a monster with colorful, Personally, I painting and the
ﬂoating teddy bears inside his tummy. was extremely change of its role from
All the works were unique and intrigued by the ART 15 AN EXPRESSION OF painting real life to
expressed each artist’s individual individual works of OUR INNER SELVES AND TO painting the
style. digital artwork, FIND A WORK OF ART To unrealistic, the

K. I am a strong believer that certain which Idescribed in BE STRIKING MAKES A subconscious, the
works of art ‘strike’ certain people in the beginning of the emotions as modern

. . . . . . CERTAIN KIND OF UNEX— '
certain ways — not all art is appealing article. Two in and post-modern
to every viewer. If that were the case, particular I found to PLAINABLE OONNECHON did. . . is history

‘ We would not be individual selves. be quite fascinating. WTIH THE ARTIST. repeating itself?

That is the reason for the diversity of One presented the Art is the outlet for

71

arts and artworks. For this reason, I
do not discuss all the works in DuPont
(though all are truly magniﬁcent). But
I encourage you to enter the museum
and discover for yourselves which of
the artworks ‘strike’ you - then find
out the artist and tell him/her that their
artwork is intriguing and have a
conversation.

I say the latter statement because
art. gives a glimpse into the mind of
the artist — the depths of his/her
psyche, how he handles certain

ﬁgure of a man peering into a window,
yet completely surrounded by white,
ﬂuffy clouds. These clouds seemed
to envelop him as though they were
carrying this image of him into some
sort of dream world. Two realistic
photographs — one of a man, one of
clouds — put together to form a bizarre
yet imaginative representation. It is a
simple representation yet the idea is
so creative.

Another digital photographic
work of art portrayed the close-up of
a black fence in front of a colorful

imagination, where
creativity runs wild, limitless and free.
And it seems to be the case that
representation itself is limited so far
as one’s imagination goes. But then
again, is there a limit to the
representation of our imagination? Art
itself is a representation, but is there
room for more discoveries? Or must
we wait for the advancement of
technology as the source for these
discoveries .(as was the case with
digital photography)? Just a few
thoughts...

Review: ‘Sylvia’ cast barks up laughs

While the plot may seem far-fetched to most,

BY MEGAN MORGAN
.iSSlST.\f\7T ARTS ANI) LIFE EDITOR

Spring has arrived here in Lexington. And with the
coming of a new season comes the return of a beloved
local institution. This means that Lexington’s own Hull’s
Drive-In will once again reopen to the public, offering
viewers a wide and appealing variety of new movies.

Hull’s usually shows a double feature of two back-
to-back movies, which may or may not be related in
subject. The showings are always at night, and begin
when it becomes dark enough outside to see the screen.
Viewers can listen to the movie over the radio or through
individual speakers that can be hooked into the car. The
drive-in offers a concession stand that sells snacks and
drinks to Hull’s patrons.

The 2003 spring season started offover the weekend
of April 25 with a showing of the Broadway musical-
turned Academy Award winning ﬁlm “Chicago” followed
by Gwyneth Paltrow’s comedy “View from the Top”. On
May 2 through May 4 the theatre showed “Lord of the
Rings: The Two Towers” followed by “Maid in
Manhattan”.

On Wednesday, April 30, W&L’s Student Organizing
Alternative Recreation (SOAR) club sponsored a free night at
the drive-in for W&L students where they showed James
Bond’s “Die Another Day”. SOAR is a club that promotes
social optionsthat serve as an alternative to the traditional

    

W&L social scene.

The drive-in, which is over 50 years old, is extremely .
unique in its management. It is run by Hull’s Angels, a ‘
non—profit organization that bought and rescued the :

theatre in 2001 when it went out of business. This makes

Hull’s the only non-proﬁt drive-in movie theater in the A

nation.

Coming up in the near future, moviegoers will‘
have the opportunity to experience something of‘
historical signiﬁcance. Hull’s Drive-In will be hosting I

what they are calling a Civil War Weekend, which is

scheduled to occur over the weekend of May 16'

through May 18. The theatre will play the double
feature of the recently released “Gods and Generals”
followed by “Somersby”. Both of these historical
epic movies were filmed, in part, here in Lexington.
This weekend is being advertised as “a massive movie
experience”. It will last until 2:30 am. and have two
separate intermissions. To make things even more
interesting, free admission will be given to all civil
war re-enactors who come to the drive-in dressed in

full period regalia to the Saturday evening showing]

Hull’s Drive-In is located 4 miles outside of

Lexington on Route 11 North. Double features start at

8:15 pm, and admission is $4 for adults and free for

children 12 and under. Don’t miss the opportunity for a I

unique and enjoyable movie watching experience at
Hull’s.

» jEBBRO0K.\‘/ THERlNCrIl.'r\l PHI l
A NIGHT AT THE MOVIES: Hull’s Drive-In provides students and the Lexington community with a unique cinematic experience _

“i - . .
situations, what . he considers
'1.
BY KATIE HOWELL
EDITOR IN CHIEF

.( ' I must say I was a bit skeptical when I heard the

theatre department’s next production would star a talk-
ing dog. Maybe my skepticism was due to the fact that
I don’t really like dogs. Whatever the case, I was wrong.
The cast of this weekend’s “Sylvia” managed to not

*5 only completely reroute my skepticism, but also to make

the audience think about a number of things including
relationships among humans and animals and gender
roles.

The play, senior Neal Willetts’s thesis project, de-
buted over the weekend in the Lenfest Center and will
continue for one more run tonight in Johnson Theatre
at 8 p.m. The small cast revolves around a love-tri-
angle relationship between Greg (Joe Harouni, ’05), a

4. middle-aged commodities trader searching for mean-

ing and “realness” in life, his wife Kate (Kris Pollina,
’O3), a New York City junior high school English
teacher who believes she can teach Harlem students

‘ to appreciate Shakespeare and Sylvia (Ligia Abreu,

’06), Greg’s French poodle. The catch of the play re-
volves around the fact that Sylvia can talk, not just
bark, she can converse with the other characters, and
Greg treats her like she is a human. Willetts summed

I4 up the plot as, “an exploration of marriage and the

importance of communication in maintaining a long-
lasting relationship.”

and it was, the hilarious quirks and interplay be-
tween the actors make the two hours worthwhile.
Whether it be Abreu’s dog-like mannerisms or
Pollina’s soliloquized bits of Shakespeare, the play
keeps the audience captivated if not chuckling.

I commend Willetts on choosing his actors. While
the entire cast worked together phenomenally, the
play was generally held together by the stellar per-
formances of Pollina and Abreu. These two women
made their characters come alive on the stage. At
times, I could literally see an “innocent” dog pranc-
ing around the room under the watchful eye of a jeal-
ous wife. .

Another notable performance was that of senior
Sarah Sager, as a rich, socialite friend of the family. I
could feel her cringe as Sylvia leapt up on her, wag-
ging her tail during a scene in the couple’s apart-
merit.

I can’t say the play made a dog-lover out of me,
but it did allow me to think about and appreciate the
relationships among humans, their pets and one an-
other.

The bottom line: go see the play tonight. While the
two hours may seem to drag at times, the amazing skills of
the two leading actresses make the performance worth-
while and entertaining in the end.

Megan Morgan contributed to this review.

BALL, l'<'R()r\l PAGE 1

about 30, 00 people in the United States.
The disease affects the ﬁmctioning of
organs, particularly the pancreas and

lungs. If it remains untreated, many vic-
tims do not live beyond childhood.
Tickets for the Charity Ball for Cys-
tic Fibrosis are $25 per couple and $15
per individual and will be sold during the

week of May 5 from 11 a.m. to 1 p.m. in
front of the Co-op. Tickets will also be
sold at the door. All ticket sales money
goes directly to the Cystic Fibrosis Foun-
dation. Dress is black tie optional.

NABORS, FROM PAGE 1

washes will be held, one of which will beneﬁt the Rockbridge
Area Transportation System. Other events for this year in-
clude building and cleaning playgrounds at Yellow Brick Road
and Lexington Day School, painting a building for the
RockbridgeArea Recreational Center in Buena Vista, and help-
ing to do inventory at the Free Clinic. Phi Eta Sigma, the
ﬁeshman honorary, will be speciﬁcally focusing on Habitat for
Humanity and Alpha Phi Omega, the co—educational service
ﬁaternity, will be painting a mural at the youth center.
Everyone involved would love to see interest in this ac-
tivity grow. It is a great time to get with your friends and
support local interests that need assistance. While in the
past, faculty and administration have not played a major role
in Nabors Service Day, 2003 could be the year of starting a

tradition of everyone in the Washington and Lee community

coming together for the good of Rockbridge County and for
the legacy of Jonathan 0. Nabors. The Nabors Service League
Web site sums up why students and faculty should get in-

volved, “It is his spirit of optimism, love, and friendship that‘

the Nabors Service League aspires to embody.” For all stu-
dents, faculty, and administration that would like to get in-
volved, a sign up sheet for the events will be outside the co-op}
everyday this week from 1 1-2. Additionally, forms are available
oriline athQ_1;://home.wlu.edu/~THOMPSONP/N SDform.htm.
Stacy McLaughlin ’02 and Claiborne Taylor ’02 es-
tablished this event in memory of Jonathon O. Nabors.
They decided to honor his memory with a day of service
because Nabors did much for others and was very in-I
volved in community service. Nabors would have gradu-
ated in 2002. On his way back to Washington and Lee“
after Christmas break, Nabors was killed on January 3,’
1999 in an automobile accident, along with his sister, Leigh,
during his freshman year. Nabors Service Day was cre-;
ated in the Spring of 1999 and was a mandatory activity for
freshmen only. The creation ofNabors Service Day lead
to the beginning of the Nabors Service League, also started‘
by McLaughlin, in which students can participate in ser-
vice programs year round. 5

 

 

 RLNG-"TUM PHI

    
 
    

PAGE 6

PORTS

  

.4
, ERINJUIIUS
SPORTS Eurioiif

 

E\/LlII.‘]UIlLSE@Wlll.EDll »

Baseball wins two this week

I

With 28-8 record, team could could go to Division III NCAA tournament

jars BROOKS/T/7fRIiﬂg~l1l7IIP/Ii

TRIPLE PLAY. Zack Bausch looks on as his teammate Dan Kagey bats in Saturday’s game.

BY JOHN HYLAND
SPORTS WRITER

The W&L baseball team fol-
lowed up last Sunday’s disappoint-
ing loss in the ODAC championship
game with two solid victories this past
week and with an impressive record
of 28-8 and are now poised for a po-
tential berth in the Division III NCAA
tournament.

The Generals faced Villa Julie at
home on Wednesday. W&L fell down
3-0 after the first inning but the Gen-
erals came back to score a run in the
bottom of the ﬁrst and two more in
the second to tie the score at 3. Junior
right-hander Mike Wert shook off a
rough ﬁrst inning and pitched solidly
the rest of the way.’ The game re-
mained tied at 3 until the bottom of
the ninth. Senior ﬁrst baseman Brian
Gladysz led off the inning with a walk.
Junior designated hitter Bryan
Mulhem then singled but the ball was
misplayed by the Villa Julie leftﬁelder
that allowed Gladysz to score all the

way from first to give the Generals a ‘

dramatic 4-3 victory. Wert received the
victory going the full nine innings to
improve his record to 7-1 on the year.
Olfensively, the Generals were led by
Mulhem, junior second baseman Aus-
tin Allain and senior shortstop
Michael Hanson who each contrib-
uted two hits and an RBI.

Savannah Art and Design then
came to Lexington this past weekend
for a two game series that would close
out the Generals’ regular season.
W&L scored three rims in the sec-
ond inning to take a 3-0 lead and never
looked back in their 7-2 victory.

The Generals were aided by the
Bee’s poor defense as ﬁve of the Gen-
erals seven rims were unearned. Se-
nior centerﬁelder Bobby Littlehale
went 3 for 4 for the Generals with two
rims scored. Sophomore designated
hitter Zach Bausch went 2 for 3 with
two rims scored and two RBIs includ-
ing a solo home rim in the ninth in-
ning. Junior leﬁ hander Peter Dean got
his team leading eighth victory

against just two losses, allowing two
rims over eight innings.

The two teams faced each other
again on Saturday. W&L opened up
the scoring in the first inning with a
three-run homer by Gladysz. The
Bees replaced their starting pitcher
after the first inning and were able to
shut down the Generals the rest of
the way. SCADi'came back to score a
run in the fourth and two more in the
seventh off of junior right-harider Dan
Kagey to tie the score at 3. Hanson
replaced Kagey in the eighth after a
rain delay but gave up a rim scoring
single in the top of the ninth that
would prove to be the game winning
hit and allow the Bees to prevail 4-3.

Having already won a school
record 28 games and playing out-
standingly throughout the‘ season,
the team has a chance of gaining an
at-large bid to the NCAA tournament.
The Generals will find out their fate
when the tournament selections are
released on May 11 and can only
hope that their season will continue.

The Lake Show: respect it

The Los Angeles Lakers have
won three consecutive NBA champi-
onships. Yet, many NBA enthusiasts
tire of this domination and want an-
other team to have its turn at the top.
Such fans refuse to respect an LA
squad that relies, in their opinion, ex-
clusively on Kobe Bryant and
Shaquille O’Neal.

While I am by no means a Laker
fan, let me explain why I

crushing Portland’s remaining hopes
for a championship.

During Game 4 of last year’s
Western Conference Finals, the Lak-
ers already down 2-1 in the series
trailed the Sacramento Kings 48-24 in
the second period. Yet, the Lakers
clawed their way backcinto the con-
test.

When Shaq went to the bench

with three early

would enjoy watching " """"""""""""""""""""""" “ fouls, Bryant

the Lake Show capture THE FREE AGENT stepped up, scor-

its fourth straight title. IAN MCILRQY ‘()4 ing nine uninter-
Dynasties are rupted points.

nothing new but rather the NBA
norm. Barring the strike-shortened
season of 1998-99 in which the San
Antonio Spurs took home the title,
every NBA champion, since the Bos-
ton Celtics failed to repeat in 1987,
has won at least back-to-back chain-
pionships.

However, not only has LA, like
the Chicago Bulls of the mid 90s, man-
aged to three—peat, but they have
done so in style, vanquishing their
perennial Western rivals over and
over.

In Game 7 of the 2000 Western
Conference Finals, a Blazer squad with
unquestioned superstars in Scottie
Pippen, Bonzi Wells, Rasheed
Wallace, and Damon Stoudamire (not
to mention Ruben “the Kobe stopper”
Patterson) dominated LA through
three periods taking a 75-60 lead into
the fourth quarter.

Yet, the Lakers answered with a
15-Orimto tie the game at 75, as O’Neal
dominated the post and Brian Shaw -
that’s right Brian Shaw - nailed three
shots from beyond the arc.

With less then a minute to go,
Shaq slammed an alley-oop from
Bryant to put LA up by 6, thereby

With only seconds leﬁ in regulation
and down two, Kobe drove the lane
but missed a tough shot.

Aﬁer Shaq missed the put-back,
Sacrarnento’s Vlade Divac mistakenly
tipped the ball towards the 3-point line
where “Big Shot Rob” Horry waited.

Used to such pressure with
four championships already under his
belt, Horry hit a straight-on three
pointer as time expired and gave the
Lakers a 100-99 victory, saving the se-
ries and the season.

These two examples illustrate
how the Lakers have earned respect.
In both, the Lakers’ two proven su-
perstar ﬂoor generals, Shaq and Kobe,
have shown how they can take the
entire game in their hands.

Conversely, La.ker role players, al-
though they would have trouble even
making _the roster of the Kings or Dal-
las Mavericks, consistently deliver in
the clutch.

Aside from their players, I firmly ‘

contest that the accomplishments of
LA coach Phil Jackson inspire noth-
ing but awe. Jackson has won six
straight NBA championships in sea-
sons in the last six he has coached —
and 9 in he last 11.

Naturally, many criticssay, ‘.‘any-
one could win that many NBA chain-
pionships if Jordan and Pippen or
Shaq and Kobe are on the roster.”
Yet, such a statement would be pure
ignorance.

Jackson has always successﬁilly
put out ﬁres that threatened to con-
sume his squads. Jordan publicly criti-
cized the play of Bulls center Bill
Cartwright, yet Jackson kept the feud
from surfacing on the ﬂoor.

During Chicago’s second run,
Jackson kept Dennis Rodman on a
leash, one loose enough to allow
Rodman to express himself freely with
his hair color and piercings but tight
enough to keep Rodman’s game as a
rebounding specialist from implod-
ing.

Currently, Jackson keeps his two
Laker superstars from ripping each
other apart. Because of efforts of
Jackson, even Shaq now admits that,
personal conﬂicts with Kobe aside,
the big man’s job is simply “to help
win championships.”

Aﬁer trailing Minnesota 2-1 in
the opening round of this year’s play-
offs, everyone thought LA was fall-
ing apart. Many sports reporters
started proclaiming that LA’s miracle
comeback run to the playoffs in the
second half of the season had ex-
hausted them.

Yet, the Lakers stormed back to
win the series and, like_ always, si-
lenced their critics. As Minnesota
Coach Flip Saunders said after losing
the series 4-2, “the Lakers are the team
to beat and I don’t think that’s going
to change.”

While the Lakers don’t want his
or for that matter anyone else’s love,
they certainly deserve everyone’s re-
spect.

Like sports?
Like to write?

Contact Erin at x4060 to get into the game!

 

MONDAY, MAY 5, 2003

HEADSUP

    

~ )4.
X
.5.
JEB BROORS / The Ring-tzmr Phi
READY FOR PLAY. W&L’s brand-new soccer ﬁeld, newly completed and located up nea r then freshmen parking lot.

BY DONNY BANKS
ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITOR

The Washington and Lee men’s
lacrosse team lost on Saturday 7-6 to
Limestone College in overtime at a wet
Wilson Field. It was the Generals’ sec-
ond overtime defeat in as many games,
having lost to Lynchburg last week in
the ODAC championship game.

W&L (9-5) got off to a quick lead
in the beginning ofthe game with two
unanswered goals. Throughout the
ﬁrst and second quarters, however,
the Saints (12-2) kept it close and man-
aged to score a couple points of their
own. The teams were tied at the half
with 2 goals each.

Following a lighting delay of 20
minutes, Limestone broke the tie and
exploded with three unanswered goals
to hold a 5-2 advantage. .

As the rain picked up, however,
the Generals started to mount a come-
back as sophomore attackrnan Gavin
Molinelli scored off an assist by jun-
ior Midﬁelder Dustin Martin. Senior
midﬁelder Rob Brown then put the

r)‘

it *3

 

tnnis seeps

vb

W&L back by only 1 going into the
ﬁnal quarter of regular play aﬁer scor-
ing unassisted.

In the fourth, the Generals
quickly tied it up at 5 with a goal by
junior attackman Matt Fink.

Each team’s offense remained
fairly stagnant for a stretch before
Limestone scored after a shot by
freshman attaclcman David Wooster
bounced from the post onto a W & L
defenseman’s helmet’s into the goal.

This strange deﬂection put them
up 6-5 with only 3:12 minutes remain-
ing. With 40 seconds leﬁ, however,
the Generals converted with a clutch
score by junior midfielder Mark
McLewee to force extra play.

Another 20 minute rain delay en-
sued before the overtime period. De-
spite controlling the ball for the early
part of the 5 minute OT, W&L couldn’t
get off a shot, and Limestone got the
victory with 1:33 rriinutes remaining
after scoring off of a turnover.

Overall, Matt Fink led the Gener-
als with 2 goals, and Brown, Martin,
Molinelli, and McLewee all had one.

 
 

LAX loses to Limestone‘

Team can now only hope to get an at-large bid to the Div. lll NCAA Tournament

In addition, Molinelli recorded 3 as-
sists and Martin had one. In net, jun-
ior goalie Ansel Sanders played well

with 9 saves. Washington and Lee ),

held an advantage in both groundballs
(3 9-33) and faceoifs (1 1-6). Limestone
got off more shots than the Generals
did, and many questionable calls went

to the Saints. ‘-

The game marked the ﬁrst win for
Limestone over W&L in their history
which dates back to their ﬁrst meet-
ing in 1992. The Generals lead the
series 3-1 .

Head Coach Mike Cerino previ-
ously held the same position at Lime-

stone and helped the team reach its A
prominence in Division II lacrosse,

which it has dominated over the years
and in which it is currently ranked 4th.

Because of the last two losses, >*

including last week’s loss of the
ODAV tournament to Lynchbrg,
Washington and Lee can now only
hope to receive an at-large bid to the

Div. III national tournament. F
Last year, Washington and Lee’s
men’s lacrosse took the ODACs.
i

Sisbu

   

THIRTY-LOVE. A fan looks on as the women’s tennis team battles it out under the bridge on Saturday afternoon.

FROM STAFF REPORTS

The second-seeded Washington
and Lee women’s tennis team (21-1)
swept Salisbury (9-7) at home last
Saturday in the first round of the
NCAA Division III tournament. Erika
Proko, Lindsay Hagerrnan, Laura
Bruno, Brandi Wedgeworth, Lisa
Mabry, and Elizabeth Law all won their
matches in consecutive sets, with no
Salisbury player ever winning more

than three games to a set. (Proko d.
Jody Cogar 6-0, 6-3, Hagerrnan (1.
Cassie Meyer 6-1, 6-3, Bruno d.
Samantha Coldren 6-1, 6-0,
Wedgeworth d. Heather Tyng 6-2, 6-
1, Mabry (1. Gen Lowe, 6-1, 6-0, Law
d. Sammie Smiles 6-3, 6-1).

The team continued their domi-
nance into the doubles matches, win-
ning in three sets. Senior Proko re-
corded a school record 98"‘ career
doubles match with the help of

Hagerman. defeating Jody Cogar and
Samantha Coldren from Salisbury ‘
(Hagerrnan/Proko d. Cogar Coldren )‘
8-1, Brimo/Mabry d. Meyer/Tyng 8-
O, Lora Farris/Law d. Lowe/ Smiles 8-
6).

The women’s tennis team, which pi
easily cruised to its ODAC champi-
onship, will go on to face Swarthmore,
whose team also defeated their oppo-

nent (Mary Washington) with a sweep
V r

in straight sets.

Women’s lacrosse, men’s tennis lose  

FROM STAFF REPORTS

Longwood defeats Generals

Women’s lacrosse played Longwood on Saturday.
Longwood raced out to an early lead, 11-2, by halﬁime
before adding four more points to their score in the sec-
ond half. Washington and Lee’s goals came from Kelly
Taffe and Lee Wheeler, who had one each. Its assists

ca.rne from Leslie Bogart.

The Lancers are the top-ranked team in Divi-
sion II and were up 4-0 at the 7:20 mark. Wheeler
made the Generals’ first goal, raising the score to 4-
1. The Lancers then recorded seven straight goals
and eventually forced the Generals into 30 turn-

OVCIS.

Tennis eliminated in first round of ODA Cs i

The W&L Men’s Tennis team (15-3) was eliminated
in the first round of the NCAA Division III Tennis tourna-

ment by Washington College last Saturday 4-2, winning it
two of ﬁve singles matches, and losing both doubles
matches. One singles match and one doubles match did
not finish. The only W&L victors of the day were fresh-
men David Shay and Jordan Eichenberger, who won both ,,

of their singles matches in straight sets.

Two matches were completed, however. (Farouk/
Prado d. Shay/McClure 8-3, Blanchette/Prytula d. Schaefer/
Chris Kimmel, 8-3). The loss ends an otherwise very suc-
cessful season for men’s tennis.

Paul Mclure’s singles match and the doubles match

of Nix and Kim werebo both aborted

 

ll

 

i

_]EB BROOKS / The Rr'n,g—tzrIr1 Pl )'

A

 

BY }EB BROOKS
AssOcI.ITE EDITOR

Laurent Boetsch announced Fri-
day that he will no longer serve as
University Provost. Boetsch, who
has served in the newly-created ‘po-

“~ sition of Provost since last summer,
said, he made the decision to step
down months ago, but only recently

"i
J

announced his decision to the Presi-
dent.

“I did not want to be a lame duck
for any longer than (I) have to be,” he
said. ‘There were many important de-
cisions coming out of the Provost’s of-
ﬁce (that would have been negatively
impacted by his impending move).”

Boetsch said that he felt no pres-
sure from anyone about the decision.

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

NG-TUM

W  ~  The student were of Washington and Lee Ullr'l/errny nine 7897 (P
Boetsch does not want to be ‘lame duck’ Provost any more

‘ His impending decision to step down as administrator, resume teaching is unrelated to not being named University President, current school ﬁnancial crisis

He said “we made the decision en-
tirely on our own” referring to his wife,
Elizabeth. He said that the decision,
“certainly” did not have anything to
do with not being named President of
the University. The office was de-
signed with “no long term comrnit-
ment,” Boetsch said.

With seven years in the admin-
istration under his belt, Boetsch will

return to the classroom. He will teach
in the Romance Languages depart-
ment and work closely with the Inter-
disciplinary and Global Stewardship
programs.

University President Thomas
Burish expressed his appreciation for
Boetsch’s contributions. The Presi-
dent said, “(Boetsch has) excelled in
every area in which he’s been asked to

  

‘v‘m6:«~’£“:s'~zar'=

 i’_.Wé::'Jﬁ¢-J 5__jﬁi'§;",ﬁY

 Ni: ii  UN!!}6iTY
I..x‘;* ”>":'T :"r.’<!, W-. 

. 1

VOLUME CVl,NO.lll

PHI

contribute.” Boetsch’s move had noth-
ing to do with the school’s ﬁnancial
situation, according to the President.
The position of Provost will con-
tinue to be ﬁlled by Boetsch until the
end of the ﬁscal year. President Burish
has asked the faculty to submit nomina-
tions for the position by the end of this
week. Burish plans to announce his de-
cision by the end of the academic year.

MONDAY, MAY 12, 2003

Boetsch will be on a one year
leave beginning July 1. During
the leave, he hopes to, “retool a
little bit” for the classroom. His
plans include traveling to Spain
and Italy.

Boetsch said that his greatest
achievement while in ofﬁce was be-
ing able to hire so many “great people
and great teachers.”

“Mock Convention Kicko ‘recon iurates’ camu

ROCK ON, MocK CON. (Above) Rev. Al Sh hptori answers a question in front of the cenotaph of Robert E. Lee
during a press conference in Lee Chapel hursday. Sharpton admitted that he had probably notswayei? any voters
during his speech on the Front Lawn immediately preceeding the press conference. (Top Right) Approximately 1000

BY ERIN JULIUS AND MARY CHRISTOPHER
SPORTS EDITOR AND STAFF WRITER

Wednesday saw the ﬁrst of the 2004 Mock Democratic
Convention’s ofﬁcial kick-ofi" events. Washington and Lee’s
College Republicans took on the Young Democrats in
a debate over President Bush’s original tax cut plan. Each
side answered ﬁve questions from the audience, the Col-
lege Republicans making inventive use of colorful charts
and graphs. After a ﬁerce debate lasting over an hour, the
two faculty moderators, professors John Gunn and Roger
Dean declared the College Republicans the winners.

The Reverend Al Sharpton’s speech was clearly the
highlight of the mock convention’s weekend kick-off.
Approximately 1000 W&L students lounged on the front
lawn Thursday aﬁemoon listening to the Democratic presi-
dential hopeful. Sharpton focused on his platform issues.
He had three major points—dealing with terrorism using
means other than the military, revamping the criminal jus-
tice system to make it more fair and social issues such as
healthcare and education programs.

Sharpton made frequent reference to the importance
of the electoral process and the need for voters to get
involved. “We need to ﬁnd ways to bring voters into the

Turnout successful
for Cystic Fibrosis ball

BY MARY CHRISTOPHER
STAFF WRITER

“Swipe it home,” “Please just purchase one ticket,” “This is
the lastthinglwillmakeyoubuy, “Itwillbelots ofﬁniweprom-
ise,” “Tell all your ﬁiends;” these are just some of the things you
mayhaveheardwhenwalkingbytheCoopthispastweek'IheW
& L community realized the importance of the Cystic Fibrosis
Charity Ball and did the best they could to contribute.

Cystic Fibrosis is a genetically acquired disease that short-
ens ones life span signiﬁcantly. It is a multi~system disease that
affects the lungs and digestive systems. As the patients age
increases so does the severity of the problems. With this knowl-
edge, many students felt the need to contribute to the ﬁght
against this life-terminating disease by attending the fund
raising ball.

Due to the overabundance of activities this week-
end, it was difficult to obtain a large attendance, but the
turnout was still good. People came dressed in all sorts
of attire from black tie, to suits, to khakis. The music was
outstanding, the food was great, and the enthusiasm
was high! Freshman Will Kahn said, “it was such a great
opportunity; it is not Oﬂen at W & L, that you ﬁnd your-
self swing dancing with an orchestra while sipping punch,
not spiked, from a crystal glass.” In addition to a variety
of students there was also a large showing of faculty
members present. It was greater to watch the “older
members” at the ball break out their dancing shoes.

electoral process and it will change the dynamics,” said
Sharpton. He was critical of the Voting situation in the
US, commenting on the “Civil war-type machinery for vot-
ing” versus the up-to-date system for giving out parking
tickets.

He also criticized the Democratic party for being
“cheap imitations” of the Republi- .
cans. “Democratic nominees must ' i‘
stand for something, go outside
the box and bring people in,” he
said.

Sharpton’s goal concerning
party politics is to overhaul the
Democratic party. “It is time to
reconﬁgurate what we’re gonna do
with the Democratic arrangement,” regarding labor and
African-Americans.

Sharpton also criticized many of President Bush’s poli-
cies. “Bush is the biggest deﬁcit spender in the history of
the US and we are not challenging that,” he said.

In reference to the Occupation of Iraq, “what about
the 50 states we already occupy?” Sharpton asked.

After his speech, Sharpton visited Robert E. Lee’s
grave and noted that he did not think he had swayed

In reference to the occupation of
Iraq, “What about the 50 states
we already occupy?”

THE REV. DR. AL SHARPTON

is g rel’

any W&L voters with his speech. Morris disagreed,
saying that he, “could see a lot of heads nodding”
during Sharpton’s speech and explaining that there is
a connection between the left wing of the Democratic
party and the right wing of the Republican party—
both are very much in opposition to mainstream Demo-
crats.

Political operative Dick Mor-
ris paved the way for Sharpton’s
speech. He started offby discuss-
ing the three ways to run for of-
ﬁce. You either run to win, advance
your career or raise important
views and issues that need na-
tional attention. He remarked that
politics was, “assuming leverage for what you be-
lieve.”

He commented on a variety of candidates includ-
ing Joe Lieberman, John Edwards, John Kerry and Dick
Gephardt, and each’s ability to win the democratic nomi-
nation. One interesting remark he made pertained to
Edwards whom he felt, “slit his own throat” through
his fund-raising. Edwards has raised seven million for
his campaign from plaintiff law ﬁrms. Paralegals at these

RAIN, RAIN, GO ARHY

BY CHRIs LAUDERMAN
srirr WRITER

 

, H W , , K, , . _ g _lEE BROOKS / The Ringtrrrn Phi
students, faculty and other interested individuals attended the event where Dick Morris and Al Sharpton spoke.
(Bottom Right) Donna Brazile, the first African-American to chair a presidential campaign, spoke to crowds in Lee
Chapel Friday afternoon.

ﬁrms make $18,000 and if they donate $2,000 each, the
situation becomes quite skeptical or otherwise a class
B felony. In the words of Morris, “he is going to have
indictments raining down on his donor list.” He called
Edwards fundraising, “ritual kamikaze suicide.”

Morris, University of Virginia Professor Larry Sabato,
Charlie Cook and W&L Professor William Connelly par-
ticipated in the issues forum Thursday evening. Charlie
Cook is the author of The Cook Report and is currently a
consultant for NBC News. The four men took questions
from the audience regarding everything from the effect
that Lieberrnan’s religion will have on his campaign to the
role that health care issues will play in the 2004 election.
Morris called health care, “the phoniest darrm issue ever
invented.” »

Friday aﬁemoon another distinguished political op-
erative spoke. Donna Brazile, a veteran Democratic politi-
cal strategist spoke about her work on political campaigns.

This weekend’s mock convention brought an variety
of notable political authorities to Washington and Lee’s
campus. All the events had excellent tum-outs and, truly,
it was a notable moment when the Reverend Al Sharpton
spoke to the student body of the school known as being
“most nostalgic for Reagan.”

Service day declared a success

vices, help setting up new playground equipment and
cleaning for Project Horizon, a car wash to beneﬁt the
Rockbridge Area Transportation System, spreading

_]EB BROOKS / The Ring-Item Phi
So LONG, LAW KIDS. Dean of the Law School David Partlett spoke to a
packed Doremus gymnasium Sunday afternoon during Law School
Commencement. The threat of rain pushed the ceremony inside.

Saturday, May 10 marked the fiﬁh armual
Nabors Service Day. Approximately 200 students

and faculty participated in 13 projects in Rockbridge .

County. “I was nervous about not getting enough
students because of Jonathon (N abors’s) class
graduating last year. Today’s turnout proved we
can continue to make Nabors Service Day a suc-
cess,” said co-chair Ashley Thompson.

DeanThomas Williams, Pam Burish and seven
other faculty members worked alongside the stu-
dents. Professor Harlan Beckley also felt that the
day was a success being that this is the ﬁrst year
that Nabors’s class is gone. Nabors died in a car
wreck his freshrrian year, and his classmates de-
signed Nabors Service League and Nabors Ser-
vice Day in honor of him. Ashley Thompson was
impressed with the faculty that showed up for
Nabors, but was disappointed with the faculty
and administration as a whole. Nine is an improve-
ment from last year, but one of next year’s goals is
to get each of the department heads or at least one
member of each department to participate.

This year’s service day included thirteen events
for students to choose ﬁ'om in addition to the Relay
for Life conducted last Friday. The events included a
pharmacy inventoryattheRocl<bridgeAreaFree Clinic,
loading and taking large chunks of cement to a local
durnpsite for the Rockbridge Area Community Ser-

woodcliips on a playground for Yellow Brick Road,
lawn seeding and minor landscaping at habitat houses
in Buena Vista and Glasgow for Habitat for Humanity,
putting up ﬂyers for Habitat, painting a mural at the
Youth Center at Trinity Methodist Church, Gardening
at Lexington Day School, a carwash for Relay for Life,
walking dogs for SPCA, pruning and ﬂower arranging
at Boxerwoods, and a project at the Mayﬂower.

The
pressed with the students and their excitement to volun-
teer. Studerrtsthnougliorrtﬂiedayeiqzressedthatthey
werehavingagreattirne. FreslnriariKatieVariVeensaitL
“Inhigh school,Iwasveryactiveinvolunteeiism Since
Ihavebeenirileidngtoirlliavenotliadﬂieoppoimriity
topar1icipateinmanyactivities.Iwasreallyg1adtobe
getting back into serving the oornrnimity.”

The ﬁrst McLoughlinAwards were presented
at the beginning of Saturday’s festivities. Junior
Kate Talbert and sophomore Patrick Hastings both
received the award. The award is named in honor
of Stacy McLoughlin ‘02, the founder of Nabors
Service Day and Nabors Service League. ’

Nabors’siather, who attended the event, com-
mentedontlie suocessofthe day. “Iwasthrilledwith
the way the day went.” Thanks to the dedicated stu-
dents ofWasliington and Lee, the ﬁﬁh armual Nabors
Service Day proved to be a major achievement with a
new generation of Washington and Lee students.

 

 

PAGE 2

 



Get your gossip from the Phi

Who doesn’t love a little gossip? Especially
at our clique-centric Dubyuhnell High?

Starting this week, the Phi will be publish-
ing a gossip column, entitled “Page 6,” patterned
after our favorite gossip columnist, the New
York Post’s Liz Smith. Our own New Yorker,
Kate Guy, will be dishing out the dirt on W&L’s
hots and nots. She’ll scour the campus for the
insider nuggets of news about who was seen
with whom and what happened where. Read it
every week to check up on your friends, en-
emies and crushes.

Whom did Erin Julius hook up with? What
did Donna Brazile think about Old South? Which
editor walked home from Downfall Saturday
morning? “Page 6” will tell all!

But we can’t keep up on the campus
clamor all alone, so e-mail your gossip to
pl1i@wlu.edu.

  

By Kate Guy ‘

Associate Editor Jeb! Brooks over-
stayed his welcome at Downfall and was re-
signed to walking home early Saturday mom-
ing. We hear the LexPo was on his trail as he
waded through the Maury.

Attention! Sports Editrix Erin Julius spent
Saturday night increasing the morale of a cer-
tain Keydet.

Bathtub Gin? ! ? Prohibition may be back in
MetroLex because Arts & Life Editor Kate
Guy’s handle of vodka ended up in the shower
stall at 216 N. Randolph, home of the award-
winning Absolut Fratlord, Tim Smith.

Dirty love. Editor in chief Katie Howell spent
the week in knee-deep mud on a rock star geol-
ogy trip. Some say waders resemble hooker boots.

Pythagoras? Rumorhasit Opinions EditorBrett
T. Kirwan is involved in a bizarre multi-racial love
quadrangle with JD, LD and Alice Steinbach.

Finally, we hear Business Manager Tho-
mas “Tommy Baby” Worthy is smitten with
Donna Brazile.

   

 te of the Week

“What’sthat?!?”

~Democratic consultantDom1aB1azile,
uponseeing tl1eKAOld South Fonnal

 

Founder J. Sam Slicer, 1898L
Editor in chief Katie J. Howell
Associate Editor Jeb G. Brooks
2nd Associate Editor Kyle Wass
Opinions Editor BrettT.Kirwan
iAsst. Opinions Editor CaleyAnderson
Arts & Life Editor Catherine C. Guy
Asst. Arts & Life Editor Megan Morgan
Sports Editor Erin E. Julius
Asst. Sports Editor Donny Banks
Photographers CodyGabbard
Sreya Banerjee

Business Manager Thomas Worthy
Circulation Director Henry Grimball
Advertising Assistant McQueen Calvert

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee Univer-
sity, Lexington, Virginia. The Washington and Lee Publi-
cations Board elects the Editor in chief, but The Ring-tum
Phi is otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible submis-
sions and letters. All submissions must be e-mailed to
phi@wlu.edu or in the University Center mailbox by 5
p.m. Friday to appear in the following week’s edition. The
Ring-tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions for con-
tent and length. Letters and columns do not necessarily re-
ﬂect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Ad-
vertising does not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi
or its staff. This newspaper observes current court deﬁni-
tions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Mailing Address.’ University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Street Address: 31 Washington Street
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Fax: (540) 462-4059
Email: phi@wlu.edu
http://phi.wlu.edu

THE RENO-TIIM Pin

Never before have I commented
directly on another column, let alone
one written in The Trident, but
Marinda Harrell’s piece, “Sharpton’s
ideas breathe truth,” (May 7) left me
absolutely bewildered at the source
of her irrational, hysterical hatred for
America and all non-blacks. Having
lived an admittedly insular life, but
considering myself relatively well-in-
formed and free from any racial ani-
mus, her attacks on America, W&L
and “non-blacks” struck me as hyper-
bolic and inﬂammatory.

Harrell began, fairly enough, by
praising Rev. Al Sharpton for being a
courageous leader who is unafraid to
ﬁght for blacks. Intelligent people can
fairly disagree on the Reverend. While
some may see him as standing up for
the rights of the downtrodden, I think
he can be more accurately character-
ized as an ill-inforrned, relentless self-
promoter whose good humor and jo-
vial manner have endeared him to
both whites and blacks, but cannot
obscure his tainted past of inciting
riots and divisive politics. Others, like
Donna Brazile, see him as a trouble-
some gadﬂy who is using the Demo-
cratic Party for his own gain and
threatens the work she has done.

Nonetheless, everyone who at-
tended his speech on Thursday would
agree that he was an entertaining and
captivating speaker and forthrightly
raised many issues that other Demo-
cratic candidates would be hesitant
to discuss.

In her third paragraph, though,
Harrell changes from angrily defend-
ing a man she admires to inexplicably
attacking America and W&L. She ac-
cuses the entire nation of the being
“racist, sexist and homophobic” and
goes on to complain that blacks work-
ing with whites to pursue “the cause
against racism” “must compromise
(their) intellectual outrage” because
working with whites requires one to
“rationalize the greater U.S. commu-
nity as non-racist and normal.”

For starters, these charges are an
outrageous, twisted understanding of
America and a gross

PINIONS  
Why does da ell hate me?  

WINNERS. Michael
\X/illiarns (top left),
Dale \X/ainwright
(top right) and
W/allace Jefferson
(bottom) all won
statewide elections
in Texas in the last
election.

lHOI(B(DL'KIE)Y
ll/WW.Illiihtlf//Z1/l//itI!)I5.t‘0I)7
it/11211/..i'I¢IP/I/t’.t‘0I/77‘J‘.!fﬂft’. txrrr
zuu/zr2.zurz//rrrry'mj’¢'rrorr.r‘o/tr

Harrell goes on to bemoan the
W&L black community’s inability to
“get out of the white normative gaze”
and her inability “to participate in (the
world) equally.” Of course, one
should always make an effort to un-
derstand the viewpoints of others, but
everyone will necessarily view the
world from his own unique perspec-
tive. My views, and those of the vast
majority on campus,

insult to every “non- ml RIGHT OF THE :\jgLE are indeed shaped by
black” student at ‘ our upbringing as
W&L. Labeling me BRETT  KIRWAN  whites in a white-ma-

(and all of America) as

“racist, sexist and homophobic” is the
worst kind of easy ad hominem insult
and is different in no measurable way
from me describing every blackAmeri—
can as lazy, stupid and thieving.

In addition, her charge that coop-
eration with “non-blacks” is deluded
fratemization with the enemy is wicked
denigration of everyone, white and
black, who has ever worked for racial
harmony, civil rights and true equality
before the law. One immediately won-
ders what are Harrell’s thoughts on the
Civil Rights Act, which was passed by
an almost entirely white male Congress
and championed by a white, male
Texan (l) president.

Letter to the Editor

jority nation, but for
Harrell to blame “the issues that
plague the black community” on the
rearing of the white students is to
erect a straw man that can be easily
blamed.

As for her “inability to participate
in (the world) equally,” racism and dis-
crimination are decreasing daily. Our
generation, especially, which has
grown up in a nation entirely free from
Jim Crow laws and lynch mobs, repre-
sents a new opportunity to discard the
prejudices of the past and no longer
assume that every white is racist. Rac-
ism inAmerica is oﬁen perpetuated by
“civil rights” leaders like the Reverends
Shaprton and Jackson whose liveli-

    

hoods depend on always being able
to find new causes about which to lead
marches and hold demonstrations. For
example, Jackson recently shook-
down NASCAR demanding that there
be more black drivers. Could it that
black youths prefer playing basketball
and football rather than institutional-
ized racism at NASCAR?

The visits by Sharpton and
Brazile this weekend were not a time
to dwell on the mistakes of the past,
but to recognize the opportunity and
success that America offers to people
of all colors. George Will recently
wrote a column recording the electoral
success of blacks in the last cycle. In
Texas, for example, three blacks were
simultaneously elected to statewide
positions for the first time ever in any
state. All are Republicans.

Harrell, Sharpton and others who
focus on and believe in a hateful,
negative America create their own
racist dream worlds which are dis-
torted magniﬁcations of perceived
slights. America is not a “racist, sex-
ist, homophobic” nation, but the fre-
est, most accepting and most dynamic
in the history of mankind. Harrell
needs to erase her own hate and em-
brace America for what it truly is.

BRETTT. l<.'1R\rrA1\.«

OPINIONS Eorror

EAiAn;nn\>r.ANB@vrr1i.ir1

MONDAY, MAY 12, 2003 *

Iraqi reconstruction

Last Friday, the UN Security Council met to re-

by the United States, Great Britain, and Spain. All 15
Security Council members were represented at the meet-
ings, including noted anti-war powers France, Russia,
and Germany.

A surprising MODElhiTE,S MUSINGS
f t f th' f t
iiifr:d1(ictiohsto lthse CALEY ANDERSON ‘06

UN proposal was

Though Russian delegate Sergey Lavrov said he had a
“long list of questions” about the proposal, the mood
of the Security Council was surprisingly positive. “The

Negroponte, the U.S. ambassador.

Surprising for a group of powers who argued bit-
terly and stubbornly prior to the war? Certainly. But
what makes this proposal so “constructive” is the plain
common sense and fairness that pervades it. All of its
facets are aimed at rebuilding Iraq in the economic,
political, and humanitarian sectors. A few of the
proposal’s provisions include establishing the U.S. and

Iraq, giving them limited control over establishment of
an Iraqi government, and, more importantly, making
those two nations responsible for upholding the UN’s
basic charter of human rights within Iraq’s borders.

establishing the new government, instead the UN would
have considerable inﬂuence in setting up a new admin-
istration as well. Other UN institutions, such as the
World Health Organization and the World Bank, would
move in as well to reestablish Iraqi basic infrastructure.

, Additionally, the UN, under the proposal, would seize
the assets of former Hussein regime leaders, putting
the money into hurnanitarianism.

posal are those dealing with oil. The proposal calls for
a free Iraqi oil market, with the revenues from oil sales
going directly into a humanitarian and reconstruction
ftmd to be established by the occupying powers (rather
than going straight into their treasuries, a move which
the Bush administration pondered, but eventually dis-
missed as too unfair in the U.S.’s favor). While putting
the sales revenue into reconstruction is not controver-
sial, a completely free Iraqi oil market beneﬁts the
world’s industrialized powers, most notably the United
States. While U.S. demands for access to Iraqi oil sho11ld
come as no surprise to anyone, at least we see that the
Bush and Blair administrations are willing to open up
the market rather than arrange some sort of exclusive
export system. I ' . I ' . A

I More controversially, the proposal calls for a four

been present from the end of the First Gulf War. This
step could be problematic because many European
powers, including most prominently France and Rus-

contractual obligations will be paid off by the occupy-
ing powers, the ﬁiture Iraqi democratic government, or
at all is in doubt, and may cause a considerable snag in
this proposal’s acceptance. *

Nevertheless, the proposal overall is very much
the program that needs to be put in place to begin the
recovery of Iraq. It’s not entirely an idealist’s paradise,
what with the oil shenanigans, but it will do much to-
wards accomplishing the stated goals of the war. If it
also accomplishes those unstated goals related to oil,
that is acceptable if it also accomplishes positive re-
sults in Iraq. France, Russia, Germany, and the citizens
of the United States seem to understand that.

 

   

Hodges defends Spring Term

Dear Editor,

The six-week term exists because it offers unique oppor-
tunities for learning. It allows us to teach classes off campus
and anywhere on the planet. For some subjects, especially
the languages and some sciences (e.g., geology taught in
the Grand Canyon, or biology studied in the Galapagos),
location makes a vast diiference in learning opportunities.
Studying Russian in Moscow rather than in Lexington is to
live Russia, not merely to learn about Russia.

Second, because students can devote full time to one
course of study only, they can be totally absorbed in one
subject for a significant period of time. The study is in-
tense and it allows exploration in greater depth and breadth
than is usually possible in the ordinary run of things.

Those educational advantages are not available in any
of the three calendars the Administration has asked us to
consider. 1) 12- 1 2-6 with students required to enroll in two
courses: You cannot study French in Paris if you must be in
Lexington to study accounting. [Incidentally, that could be

   
 
  

“This is no e to criticize “He ’s a perfect gentleman and
the president.”
-Brooke Sanden ‘06

should be president of the school”
—Chris Kimmel ‘O6

ﬁxed if we were to award six credits for all courses taught
outside Lexington. In fact, in 1973 I did just that for a Spring
Term course in medical ethics.] 2) 13- 1 3-4 might be educa-
tionally sound, provided students enroll in only one course
during the four weeks. The problem is that when we take
into account time for preparation, travel, and acclimation to
a new environment, actual time living and working off carn-
pus is severely limited. 3) 14-14 eliminates all special learn-
ing opporttmities afforded by the short term. Furthermore,
it cheats every student out of two weeks of instruction
each year. Why do we need to do that? That “other schools
are doing it” is not sufﬁcient reason.

The main rationale for this cut seems to be to help in
recruitment of faculty by reducing teaching loads and al-
lowing more time for faculty research. It is said that we are
having difﬁculty attracting “the best people” to Wash-
ington and Lee (which must be a real morale downer for
faculty appointed within the last ten years or so). My
thought is that the “best people” for this University are
those whose primary commitment is to teaching, and whose
research is designed chieﬂy to strengthen teaching, not

 

“What the @#*$%?”
-Kasee Sparks ‘06

“Nice do.”
-Tirn Blair ‘06

to promoting the career of researchers. I weep over the
prospect that we could go from being a ﬁrst rate teaching
institution to being a third-rate research institution.

I conclude, therefore, that none of the three calen-
dars is acceptable for Washington and Lee, unless we

retain the six-week term, require students to take only one ,

course if they study off campus, and award six credits to
those who use the term advantageously.

Finally, there are those who lir1k the calendar question to
the reduction of faculty teaching loads from seven to six courses
per year. No one has explained that linkage to my satisfaction,
a fact I am willing to admit may be merely another reﬂection of
my own mental density. In truth, of course, promise of such a

reduction in “load” is fraudulent because it has been deter- /

mined already that we will not appoint additional faculty. Un-
less we shrink curricular offerings by one-seventh, individual
faculty teaching loads will actually remain the same because

class sizes will increase by one-seventh.

Sincerely,
Louis W. Hodges
Knight Professor of Ethics in Journalism

  

“Who’s Al Sharpton?”
-Catherine Camilletti ‘06

makes progress in UN ”

ceive a first viewing of the post-war Iraq plan drafted 24

the encouraging cooperative attitude that prevailed. L

atmosphere was very constructive,” said John .

the United Kingdom as the “occupying powers” of .

The two powers would not be able to act unilaterally in .

Not surprisingly, the most tricky facets of the pro- '

month phase-out of the oil-for-food program that had ‘

sia, had pre-existing contracts with the Hussein regime «
under the oil-for-food program. Whether or not those A

 

    

‘CATHERINE C GUY

AKlS&LIPEED1’IOR
EMAII;c;iIYo@ixIL'Ei)U

‘MONDAY, MAY 12, 2003

“Welcome to Washington & Lee High

K

Some high school graduates go to colleges that
are close to home. Some try to go as far away as
possible. No matter where they end up,
most high school graduates hope that
college will provide a fresh start, a new
experience, and an escape from high
school.

At W&L, we know this dream is one that can never
be realized. 0

We know what a fantastic school this is, with its
academic merit and its pristine beauty and the
opportimities it gives us. But we also know that socially,
W&L is nothing more than a high school after high

’ school.

W&L’s small size has its advantages. We, of
course, are very familiar with those academic
advantages. These include, but are certainly not limited

tto, small class size, a favorable

A

A

4

A.

faculty-student ratio, and countless
other factors.

Other than these issues and
the others that we have all read in
brochures, the small size also
gives that small-town feeling of
comfort. You never have to look
far to find someone you know, or
at least find someone that you
recognize. And though you may
not always like or understand
everyone around you, at least it’s
better than being trapped and
lonely in a sea of strange and
unfamiliar faces.

Then of course, there are those not-so-nice
aspects of high school that rear their ugly heads in
Lexington. Consider cliques. In high school,whether
it be private or public, so much of our identities are
formed by the cliques in which we claimed
membership.

Like or not, this simply does not end with
graduation from high school. Seriously — more than
a few students would agree that the Greek system

ABSOLUTE FRATLORD
TIM SMITH ‘04

WE KNOW WHAT A
FANTASTIC SCHOOL THIs Is,
WITH ITS ACADEMIC MERIT

AND ITs PRISTINE BEAUTY
AND THE OPPORTUNITIES IT
GIVES US. BUT WE ALSO
KNOW THAT SOCIALLY, W&L
IS NOTHING MORE THAN A
HIGH SCHOOL AFTER HIGH
SCHOOL.

   LIFE

is just one big group of cliques on steroids. Now
don’t get me wrong. I love the W&L Greek system
as much as the next frat lord. But to
suggest that fraternities and
sororities aren’t, on one level or
another, a form of cliques is to fall
into folly.

The obvious disadvantage of the tight-knit
society of a small school is the rampant gossip and
the mercilessness that has often been known to
accompany it. Ironically, the school now enforces a
three-strike system when it comes to alcohol or
substance infractions. But in the school’ s social
setting, three-strikes would be a godsend — we could
never be so nice. Often all it takes is one mistake,
one moment of poor judgment, one night of too much
alcohol, or one wrong selection of friends for a
reputation to ﬁnd itself in the W&L
‘doghouse.’

Recent events have made me
realize how ridiculous this
atmosphere can be. We all do
stupid stuff. Maybe we’re just
looking for a scapegoat to take our
minds off our own faults and project
them on someone else. Why not?
Why not use the social faux pas of
our peers to persuade ourselves of
our own perfection. Is that not the
high school thing to do?

College is supposed to be a fun
time in our lives. A time of
indiscretion. Atime of reckless abandon. But to all you
W&L students — BEWARE.

If you choose to do something fun or reckless or silly
or just plain diunb while in Lexington, be prepared to be
everyone’s punching bag.

In big state schools, you would be fine. You
wouldn’t have to worry about having your reputation
burned at the stake.

But you came to Washington & Lee High School,

and it’s a price that, at times, we all have to pay.

 

PAGE 3

Make Ariel ‘part of your world’

I want to write poetry on human parchment. Take
quill, and scratch word on stomach skin...(Tim Zink,
FallAriel ’98)

The divine voice ofa trill ﬂoats on candlelight
and moonbeams like a nightingale’ s distant
hymn. . .(Michael Healey, Spring Ariel ’98)

A responsible scholarly man, who hasn ’t done that
shit years, reminisces sitting around the coﬁee table
with comrades late in the evening. . .(Whit Morriss, Fall
Ariel ’99)

The moon jumped over the blue ridge
the other day. shot a Wise Man in the arm
And landed in the third pew of Holy Union A,
Church and just sat there. waiting for 
Revival (Dan Birdwhistell FallAriel ’99)

I open groupwise and scroll down to
the only email with an interesting title — “ariel”. from
John Melillo. “Ariel.” When I hear the name, I think of
one of two things: the whimsical character from The
Tempest, or that little mermaid whose voice had been
exchanged for the hope of true love. Had I not read the
Shakespearean play my senior year of high school, I
would probably still think of the Disney cartoon.
However, I ﬁnd it highly unlikely that the school’s only
literary arts magazine would name itself after a Disney
cartoon character. But then again, you never know. She
was quite poetic, after all.

Shakespeare’s character, from what I remember, was
an interesting ‘thing.’ It wasn’t a person or an actual
physical ﬁgure ~ none of the other characters even knew
that it existed, except for the reader and Prospero. And it
didn’t walk or run or creep around Gollum-like — did it
ﬂy? Maybe — it seemed to disappear and reappear, like a
ghost or spirit from ‘the other world.’ I remember my
teacher taking a Very psychological approach to the
character, arguing that Ariel was only an aspect of
Prospero’s mind, an imaginary ﬁgure he had invented,
probably to keep himself company while on the island.
But that was the approach he always took towards the
creative-side of the class — very analytical with a logical
explanation for everything. He was a dud and his class
was boring anyway.

 

Mock Con bands succeed despite inclement weather

:55: 1‘ AURA LEIGH BIRD“/ELL‘03 expression is lost somewhere between

As for the “Ariel” literary arts magazine, it represents
just about everything but logic. The poems and short
stories are as boundless as our own creative minds. The
poems are expressions of the imaginative side of
humanity. The poetry found in the Ariel emphasizes
that sometimes, there is no rational explanation for certain
aspects of human life. . .and that this illogical, irrational,
unscientiﬁc side of our existence is something that should
be recognized and celebrated.

The purpose of these papers, essays, and
presentations is to design logical and
reasonable answers to issues and
problems — thus, freedom of

the reality of application and the need

for objectivity in creating justice. However,

education should not be limited to such objectivity and

should never seek to subdue these aspects of humanity,
mainly because life itself is not solely objective.

The Ariel is the outlet, the escape from the logical
and analytical side of education. Its primary purpose is
to provide a means of thinking artistically and creatively,
while exercising full freedom of expression. And indeed,
if you have read poems from the Ariel, you know that
this student publication falls on the more liberal side of
W&L. The student poems in this publication of the Ariel
are nothing short of creative, illogical, and brilliant, as
well as the artwork and photography. The magazine will
be ready by the end of this week, making its grand
appearance at various sites around campus (like the
Dhall, Coop/Bookstore, and University Center). Pick one
up and explore the ‘rapture.’

I conclude with a preview of the winter 2003 Ariel
from a poem titled “Lucian Freud Speakst” Cerith ’s
unblinking conﬁdence begins my work but as dawn
becomes noon, aura leaves the room and paint becomes

ﬂesh. Swollen hips below heavy breasts twist from folded
thighs to include the underside of her sunken stomach,
not for accuracy but because of light and interest.
Awkward anatomy excludes nature, leisure, and thin
paint. What Rodin did in three dimensions I want in

two: blond girl on a bed, sculpture on linen.

 

K
A notice from
The Executive Committee
A of THE STUDENT BODY BY MEGAN MORGAN
ASSlSTANT ARTS & LIFE EDITOR
April 3, 2003
A member of the Student Body withdrew after being found guilty of an 0.“ Saturday» May lotha
Honor Violation. The student took another’s work from the Internet and Washin ton and Lee students
. . . . g
y( submitted it as his/her own for a Philosophy paper. The student’s paper celebrated the last day of the 24th
contained multipletpassages that matched or closely paraphrased passages from M ock Convention Spring Kickoff-by
multiple Internet sites. The student did not cite or otherwise attribute this work _ _ , _
to anyone other than himself/herself. jheadmgto the L1meK1]n Amphlt-heat“:
In defense, the student stated that he/she accidentally turned in a Here, they heard The North
“rough draft” that did not contain citations. At the closed hearing, the student Mississippi Allstars and The Lost
U also produced a “final paper,” which contained citations. The student stated -
. . . ,, ,, . Trailers perform on a large concert.
that he/she had intended to submit this ﬁnal paper. To support this conten- _ _
tion, the student produced evidence from his/her personal computer that TheK1ck°ff> wh1chbegan°nMay 8th
appeared to show that both the “rough draﬁ” and “final paper” were last Wlth speeches by Al Sharpton and
modiﬁed o'iiiktheEpaper’.s dig date, andfat adtirlrjie just begore the lpaper was clued. 1 Dick lylori-is, is the first official event
A s e x-ecutive ommittee oun ,. owever, y cone usive an’ cre ib e of the 2004 Democratic Mock
evidence and testimony that the date and time function on the student s _ , ,
personal computer had been affirmatively modiﬁed two days after he/she was Convention In Splte ofthe ram: many
formally charged with an Honor Violation. This modiﬁcation changed the students Stlll turned out. Some arrived
computer’s date and time from March 23, 2003, back to the paper’s due date, as early as noon in order to cookout
and a time just before the paper was due. This fact, coupled with other evidence and tailgate in the parking lot in from
1... concerning the matter, led the Committee to conclude that the ﬁnal paper, ,
which contained citations, had actually been created many weeks after the ﬁnal of the Amphltheatre before the
paper was due, and subsequent to the student being charged with an Honor concert.
Violation. Thus, the Committee found that the student had intentionally The Lost Trailers per-for-rned first,
submitted another 5 work from the Internet as his/her own. I 1- g at 5:30 pm. The band, which
«L was ﬁrst formed at Vanderbilt University
*Note that this Honor Posting is significantly more detailed than past in2000,isafourpiece rockband whose
Honor Postings. The Executive Committee's decision to include more detail is members include the guitarist and
I ‘ ' . .
not re ated to the facts of this matter, but rather reflects a desire to accommodate V0cahstGe0m_ey StokesN1eiSon’ Ryder
the Student Body s request to see more detailed Postings.
Lee on the keys and vocals, Tom Lord
‘{ Thank you, on drums, and Casey Childress on bass.
G M M T_ I” 2002 2003 EC P d The band is based inthe Southeast with
era . itus, , - . . resi ent, - -
Kemptori W. Presley, 2002-2003 E. C. Vice-President, a style of muslc Inﬂuenced by bands
Helen B. Hughes, 2002-2003 E. C. Secretary such as The Beatles: Allman Brothers
A and the Eagles. They played a wide

   

   

injiuuhonui

{olleg

      

>1» fundrms;-rig msirliz» Simple, Sash} and Free.

 lsmmaishg  auaabie. No  No «fees. lust sueoesali
Fiaulraislrig  are ﬁling dialect. fuel whit the programs  world

Q  p  
lriiur Tnuted Soumcfbr Cottage Fmmimifing.
388-923-3238 - ‘!t.f‘a‘.i’e/*l.C3i,l‘l"I}')l.i‘3lll.f1{5t‘EllS»i}E’.C()l‘i‘l

gm   5;  ll  if ,     if 9

FOR RENT

312 E Washington
House can accommodate 4 students: 4 bedrooms,
2 baths, living room, kitchen,
dining room and study.
Excellent off-street parking. $1,000 per month.

110 E Washington
House can accommodate 2-3 students:
2-3 bedrooms, 2 baths, living room, dining room,
kitchen. $750.00 per month.

Call Pat ALdred, Mead Associates,
Realtors, at 463-7168

selection of songs at the concert, many
ﬂom their two compact discs “The Lost
Trailers” and the most recent release
‘The Rock Band”. .

The Lost Trailers were followed
by the North Mississippi Allstars, also
a Southern rock band, which combines
Delta blues with sixties rock. Its
members include guitarist and singer
Luther Dickinson, bassist Chris Chew,
pianist and singer Cody Dickinson
and drummer R.L. Burnside. The
Dickinson brothers, whose father was

]EBBRtheRing-tum Pm

ROCK ON, MOCK CON! The North Mississippi Allstars receieved glowing reviews from the students who attended the show.

one of the most prominent producers
in Memphis, began performing at an
early age and added Chris Chew when
they saw him perform at their high
school homecoming dance. Burnside
joined the group in 2001.

They have released three compact
discs , the first being “Shake Hands
with Shorty” in 2000 which was
followed by “51 Phantom” in 2001 both
of which received Grammy

nominations. Recently, they released
a new c.d. entitled “Polaris”, which they
see as a culmination of their previous
works. “The ﬁrst records were building
blocks; we’ve been thinking and
talking about Polaris since 1999. We
were on a three—record plan and we
always knew that number three would
be our most ambitious album.”

This new album and the bands in
general seemed to go over well here at

Washington and Lee. Freshman
Steven Marinos says of his experience
“Despite the weather, I still had a really
good time. I’d heard of the North
Mississippi Allstars before. They used
to play shows in Memphis all the time.
It was really cool to get the chance to
see them here in Lexington.”

Amongst other concert-goers,
this seems to be the general
consensus.

Center

W&L University Soft
Squash Tournament

WHEN: 6-9 PM on May 19, 21, 22 in room 416 of the Warner

WHO: Open to all students, faculty and staff of all skill levels,
separate Men’s and Women’s Divisions
To enter ﬁll out entry form found outside Coach Lyles’ Ofﬁce

ENTRY DEADLINE: FRIDAY, MAY 16 - 5:00 PM
Questions or Comments can be directed to Greg Michaels or Coach Lyles

Happy
Birthday

 

Clebl, CCG,
KJH,
BTK,EEJ

 

 

PAGE 4

’l‘Hli RING~TUl\i Piii

PORTS
omen’s LAX los

C()L'KIIi\Y5l’(‘KlSllVT{'}li\l\Tl(I\'

LAXATTACK. SeniorattackerLeslieBogartgoes forthegoalduiingagameeaﬂierthis season

BY DONNY BANKS
.\SSlS'l'.\NT SPORTS EDITOR

Washington and Lee’s
women’s lacrosse team fell to Mary
Washington, 12-7, in the NCAAS,
held in Ewing, New Jersey. At-

tacker Leslie Bogart, ’03, scored
three goals, tying the school career
scoring record of 230 points. Lisa
Dowling had set the record in the
1993 season.

Bogart ends her W&L lacrosse
career with 94 goals. She also holds

 

Emitting‘
SPOKISEDIIOR
FMAIl.‘]bIlUSE@\lVllJ.E)U ,

T AFFE

the school record in assists, record-
ing 136 during her playing time at
W&L.

Bogart opened the scoring in
Saturday’s game, getting one in with
21 :42 left in the ﬁrst half. Mary Wash-
ington then got in four straight goals,
for an easy 4-1 lead. The Generals
then scored twice more to trail 4-3
before the Eagles got in a series of
five goals to take a commanding 9-3
lead with about 25 minutes leﬁ in the
game.

In addition to Bogart’s phenom-
enal scoring, attacker Kelly Taffe, ’O4
recorded two goals while Katharine
Lester and Lee Wheeler each recorded
one.

Natalya Hoobchaak, Sarah
J anowitz and Taffe each recorded an
assist. Joanna Perini made nine saves
in goal.

Three golfers named to All-ODAC team

BY DONNY BANKS
.iSSlST.\f\JT SPORTS EDITOR

Three Washington and Lee golfers were recently
named to the All-Old Dominion Athletic Conference team.
Senior captain Chip Campbell and sophomore Ged Johnson
both placed on the first team, while freshman Tom Borda
made the second team.

“I’m extremely pleased to receive the All-ODAC Sec-
ond Team award, especially as a freshman,” remarked
Borda. “Hopefully, I can improve on that in the years to
come.”

Campbell, Geddes, and Borda all played 18 rounds

Baseballers recieve individual honors

BY JOHN HYLAND
SPORTS WRITER

The W&L baseball team’s incredible season, in which
they compiled a 28-8 overall record, was rewarded last
Wednesday when the ODAC released its conference all-
stars. Eight Generals received recognition as well as Man-
ager Jeff Stickley, who was named ODAC coach of the
year for the third time.

Senior shortstop Michael Hanson capped off a tre-
mendous career by being named to his fourth straight
all-ODAC team. This season, he also became the first
W&L baseball player ever to be named ODAC player of
the year. In addition to playing arguably the most im-
portant position in the ﬁeld, Hanson hit .371 with 5
home runs and 23 RBIs. He scored a school record 46
runs and also led the team with 3 triples and 14 stolen
bases. Hanson has left his mark on the W&L all-time
record book. He is currently the school’s all-time leader
in games played (136), at-bats (519), hits (187), runs
(148), doubles (43), triples (13) and stolen bases (51).
He has hit .360 with 18 home runs and 83 RBIs for his
career.

Hanson was joined on the ﬁrst team by his fellow
senior co-captains, first baseman Brian Gladysz and

this year, averaging 75.4, 76.4, and 77.9 strokes‘
per round, respectively. This marked
Cainpbell’s second straight selection to the ﬁrst
team.

The Generals enjoyed a strong season
and finished third at the ODAC Champion-
ship on April 2 1 st and 22nd. Despite an im-
pressive showing and a ranking of 20th in
the nation by Golf Stat, the team did not re-
ceive an at-large bid to play in the Division
III National Championships from May 12th to 15th in
Delaware, Ohio. Campbell, however, will participate in
the individual competition at the tournament.

centerﬁelder Bobby Littlehale. Gladysz ﬁnished the year
with a .358 average, 4 home rims, 33 RBIs and 33 rims
scored. He also drew a school record 31 walks. In addition
to being a stellar defensive outﬁelder, Littlehale hit .362
with a home rim, 23 RBIs and 27 I'11IlS scored.

Joining these three seniors on the
ﬁrst team were juniors Bryan Mulhem
and Peter Dean and sophomore Zach
Bausch. Mulhern was primarily a
catcher but also saw time in the out-
ﬁeld and as a pitcher. He led the team
in several offensive categories, bat-
ting .392 with 6 home I'l1I1S and 48
RBIs. On the mound, he appeared in
10 games, ﬁnishing with a 3-1 record
and a 2.29 ERA. Bausch played some
catcher and saw extensive time as a
designated hitter, batting .356 with 4
home 1'l1I1S, 30 RBIs and a team lead-
ing 15 doubles.

Dean was the ace of the Generals pitching staff. He
appeared in 14 games, starting 12, compiling an 8-2 record
and 1.67 ERA. He led the team in wins, innings pitched
(80.2), complete games (6), shutouts (2) and strikeouts
(73). He is currently the Generals all time leader in ERA

Six LAX players selected or Al

BY DONNY BANKS
.\SSlST.lNT SPORTS EDITOR

The Washington and Lee men’s and

with just a 5.85 goals per game average.

Martin reached the mark with 21 goals
and 8 assists on the season. Sanders,
who got second team a year ago, had a

expectations.

 

" HNON I I

 

DEAN

and one assist and won 57.7 percent of
his faceoffs, and Molinelli,
15 goals and 12 assists, both certainly met

Mom, MAY 12, 2003’

  
   

AKIHURASHE AWARD

GE - A  
Fotmos wms Udall scholarship

Washington and Lee junior Andrew Fotinos has re-
ceived the Morris K. Udall Scholarship. He is one of 80,,
undergraduates in the country to receive this honor.

Fotinos, who is participating in the Environmental
Studies Program will also be the manager of the Outing
Club House next year and is also a member of the cross
country team.

\ Last summer, Fotinos worked in an internship with
the Nature Conservancy. He lived in the Targhee National
Forest in Idaho and worked with a program designed to
educate local ranchers about conservation. The program’s;
goal is to reduce development and fragmentation of cru-
cial wildlife habitats in a migration corridor area adjacent
to Targhee and Yellowstone National Park.

After graduation, Fotinos plans to pursue a graduate
degree in public policy and hopes one day to have a ca-39
reer in local government because he hopes to advocate‘
for a sound and sustainable land resource policy.

The Morris K. Udall Foundation awards scholarships
of up to $5000 to college juniors and seniors pursuing A
studies in ﬁelds related to the environment. The founda-
tion was established in 1992 and is an agency associated
with the executive branch whose board members are ap-
pointed by the President and approved by the Senate.

Pulitzer Prize-winner McWholter to speak I

Diarme McWhorter, winner of last year’s Pulitzer Prize
in nonﬁction for her book on Birrriingham and the Civil
Rights movement, is coming to campus this week as a
guest of W&L’s Fishback Program for Visiting Writers.
She will be working with students and faculty this week
working with small groups of student writers and partici-k
pating in class discussions.

McWhorter will deliver an address on Wednesday,
May 14 at 7:30 p.m. in Lee Chapel. Her address is entitled
“Identifying with Fate: The Intersection of Personal Iden- >4
tity and Public History”.

She contributes regularly to The New York Times and
the op-ed page ‘of USA Today and frequently focuses on
race, politics and other social topics. Her Pulitzer—winning
piece was entitled, “Carry Me Home: Birmingham, Ala!“
bama- The Climatic Battle of the Civil Rights Revolution”
and was also hailed as one of the year’s best by The New
York Times, The Los Angeles Times, and Time magazine.

McWhorter graduated from Wellesley College with a,
B.A. in comparative literature.

President of Dallas Fed will speak

Bob McTeer, President of the Dallas Federal Reserve;
Bank will give the H. Parker Willis Lecture in Economic
Policy on Tuesday, May 13 at 7:30 p.m. in Northern Audi-
torium. His lecture is entitled “The Prodigal Son As the
Central Banker”. .

McTeer holds a doctorate in econorriics from the Uni-T
versity of Georgia and is a member of the board of direc-
tors of the National Council on Economic Education.
McTeer is a member of the Federal Open Market Commit-
tee, the Fed’s principle monetary policymaking body. x

He became the President and CEO of the Federal Re-
serve Bank of Dallas in February 1991.

Law students honored for legal writing

Three Washington and Lee University School of Law
are being honored for excellence in legal writing. Jeffrey
Scott, a second-year law student won ﬁrst place in the
American Bar Association Forum on Affordable Housing”
and Community Development Law Writing Competition.
He will receive $1000 and a trip to the Forum’s 12th Annual
Conference. Scott’s paper “Public Use and Private Proﬁt:
When Should Heightened Scrutiny Be Applied to ‘Public-
Private’ Takings” won his award. I‘

Two other W&L Law students were selected to serve
on the Harvard Journal of Law and Public Policy’s 2003
National Symposium Editorial Board. Ryan Berry, also a
second-year student, will serve as one of four Executive
Editors. James Coleman, a first-year student, will serve as’
an Editor of this year’s symposium issue.

Cuban writer to visit campus

National Book Award Finalist Cristina Garcia will be!
giving a reading and lecture at Washington and Lee on
Wednesday, May 21, at 7:30 p.m. in Lee Chapel. His lec-
ture, “Politics, Art and Cultural Identity: Thoughts on
American-Cuban Relations” is being sponsored by W&L’s 1*
Global Stewardship Program.

She will also talk with students in W&L’s seminar on
“The Cuban Story” and the Global Stewardship Spring
Institute.

Garcia was born in Havana and grew up in New York I
City. She draws on her experience as a member of an
expatriate family with strong connections in Cuba. Her
ﬁrst novel, Dreaming in Cuban was well-received in 1992.
She is hailed as the voice of Cuban expatriates. I

(IJLl?IESi'§’(lKISlNR)Ri\ll'll(1\1
Washington and Lee’s women’s tennis player, Erika
Proko, ’03, has been awarded the ITA/ Arthur Ashe
Leadership & Sportsmanship Award for the Atlantic
South region. Proko was one of four players from
various NCAA regions to win the award. The national
winner will be announced by the ITA next week. Proko
has been named All—American three times and is ranked
No. 1 in doubles and No. 9 in singles in the latest
Division III rankings. She has recorded a 22-3 overall

I record in singles and a 28-1 record in doubles.
Washington and Lee will resume play in the NCAA
Division III Quarterﬁnals on May 14 at the University
of the Redlands.

“The team played pretty well in the fall
season but struggled towards the end of the
spring season,” Borda added. “I’m disap-
pointed that we didn’t qualify for the national
tournament, which was our goal the entire year,
but it’s great that Chip Campbell will compete
there as an individual and represent the team”.

Although the team’s run may have ended
prematurely this season, the Generals will ex-
pect a strong season next year. For now, they
are merely wishing Campbell the best as he departs for
Ohio. After graduation, Campbell hopes to pursue a
career as a professional golfer

(2.14) and his 20 careers wins leaves him just three shy of
the school’s all time record. In addition to being named
ﬁrst-team all-ODAC, Dean was named to the ﬁrst team
Verizon Academic All-District College Division Baseball
team for his work in the classroom as a pre-med rnaj or with
a 3.61 grade point average. The team
includes players from small colleges
throughout the south.

Juniors Austin Allain and Dan
Kagey were named to the,All-ODAC
second team. Allain, a slick ﬁelding
second baseman, hit .289 with a home
run, 31 RBIs and 36 runs scored.
Kagey pitched in 12 games for the
Generals, starting 1 1. He posted a 7-3
record and 3.05 ERA. He ﬁnished sec-
ond on the team in innings pitched
(73.2) and strikeouts (68), behind
Dean. He also played some outﬁeld,
batting .274 with 10 RBIs and 26 runs

1»

scored.

The Generals hope their remarkable season will
continue with an at-large bid to the Division III tour-
nament. The selections will be released the night of
May 11.

l-ODAC honors

Perini, who got an honorable mention
last year, earned ﬁrst team with a save per-
centage of .545. Taffe, second team hon-
oree last year, led the Generals with 55 goals

who recorded

women’s lacrosse teams, although ending .612 save For the Women, senior defender Sa- and 17 assists. Murphy reached the mark Garcia attended Barnard College and Johns Hopkins!
on losses, ﬁnished the season auspiciously p e r c e n t - rah J anowitz was named ODAC Player of with 14 goals and 3 assists and had 50 University and has served as the Miami Bureau Chief for
enough with six players selected to All- age and the Year and a first team selection. Junior ground balls and 19 forced turnovers. Time Magazine. She lives in Santa Monica, California
ODAC honors. 5.85 goals attacker Kelly Taffe, junior goaltender Second teamer Bogart, after recording with her daughter.

For the men, junior defenseman a g a i n s t Joarma Perini, and sophomore midﬁelder setting a team record with 43 assists this Monkey Hunting is Garcia’s latest novel. 5‘
Lawson Grumbine, junior midfielder average , Kitt Murphy all were selected to the ﬁrst season, stands as W&L’s all time assist
Dustin Martin, junior goalie Ansel Sand- fourth best team, while senior attacker Leslie Bogart leader with 136 to her name. Wheeler, who
ers, and senior defenseman Noah Weber, inDivision got second team honors, and junior made the ﬁrst team in 2001, had 34 goals
were all named to the ﬁrst team. Senior 111. It was midﬁelder Lee Wheeler was anhonorable and 13 assists. - - ,-
defenseman Matt Conners was placed on all four’s mention. Not surprisingly considering the ac- wrlle for Phl Sports‘
the second team, and senior midﬁelder first time  This marked J anowitz’s third colades she produces in her players, Head
Tommy Melanson and sophomore on the ﬁrst ANDER5 straight selection to an all conference Coach Jan Hathom received the title of '
attackman Gavin Molinelli received hon- team. team. This year, she caused 14 tum- ODAC CoachoftheYear. Hathomhasbeen Contact Donny or Erm 01-
orable mentions. Conners, who saw first team honors overs, had 65 groundballs, while keep- at the school for 15 years, and this is the  5

Grumbine and Weber, who started all last year, was a solid force for the W&L ing the opponents in check with only 5th time she has been bestowed with the
13 games this season, earned the honor defense. Melanson, who notched 8 goals 6.53 goals a game. conference honor.

 

 

 

AKBUSTED. Freshman Deniz Ergin, a Fitness Center employee, looks over the cubbie holes in the lobby of the Fi

Drink discrepancy
stirs up students

BY Jar; Broors AND Kurd WASS

“Libraries, Powell archives win award

  

  
  

Washington and Lee University’s Leybum Library
and the Lewis F. Powell Jr. Archives at W&L’s School of

‘Law have been honored as part of the 2003 Solinet Out-

standing Library Programs Award recently presented to
the Virtual Library of Virginia’s Virginia Heritage database.

The database — http://www.lib.virginia.edu/vhp/ —
is a collection of electronic guides describing the archives

Hand manuscripts in 15 of the most signiﬁcant repositories

in the Commonwealth ofV1rginia. Acomplete listing of the
database’s 1,600 electronic guides, or ﬁnding aids, is
searchable by keyword and by individual institution.
W&L’s Powell Archivist John Jacob, using encoded
archival description mark—up language, encoded and en-
tered in the Virginia Heritage database the guide to more
than one million pages of manuscript holdings in the
University’s archives of late U.S. Supreme Court Justice

yLPOWell, who earned bachelor and law degrees from Wash-

A

K

K

1.

ington and Lee in 1929 and 1931, respectively.

Alumnus donates 1867 diploma to W&L

On a tip from his law partner ten years ago, Arkansas
attorney Hayes McClerkin Jr. purchased an 1867 Wash-
ington College diploma. Robert E. Lee’s signature was
what appealed to the 1953 graduate of Washington and
Lee University, but as he learned more about his ﬁnd, it
became that much more valuable to him.

McClerkin conducted the purchase from a Charles-
ton, S .C., antiquities dealer through phone calls, faxes and
mail. When he saw the document for the ﬁrst time, he
discovered that in addition to President Lee’s signature,
the diploma also was signed by Judge John W.
Brockenbrough, who moved his Lexington Law School to
Washington College the year before. But that was just
the beginning of his discovery.

Excited by its historic signiﬁcance, McClerkin became
curious about Oliver P. Evans, the 1867 graduate of Wash-
ington College. He learned that Evans was an 1865 gradu-
ate of the Virginia Military Institute. While at VMI, Evans
participated in the storied Battle of New Market as the
regimental color bearer and went onto become a commis-
sion officer in the Confederate Army.

W
l Lexington

Weekly

 

Forecast

Today— PM Showers, 68/52

Tuesday— Mostly Cloudy, 72/59
Wednesday- Rain/ Thunder, 73/52
Thursday— Scattered Showers— 76/51
Friday— Scattered Showers, 74/52
Saturday— Scattered Thunderstorms, 75/54
Sunday— Scattered Showers— 75/55

 

PHI

 

JAN? 6 3. lﬂtﬁﬁul :J.a§’;V,,,.r,

v./Am 

MAY 2 .3 kiliﬂii

VouIMECVl,N0lV
MONDAY, MAY 19,2003

Tire student wire of Wellington and In Uirir/erriw time 7897 (D Ow/we at: plrz'.wlu.ea’u

ASSOCIATE EDITORS

The rumors are not true. Free drinks from the Coop
during exams will continue, despite chitchat that says

otherwise.

For many years, the Coop has served free bever-

 

mess Center during his work study shift Saturday afternoon.

_] EB Brooks / The Ring-tum Plii

ages to fuel Washington and Lee students through
exam periods. The tradition has become expected and
appreciated by all. However, recent rumors have sug-
gested that this practice may be coming to a close.
Students, faculty and employees of the University
have expressed concern that their evenings may be-
come more difﬁcult without the added octane caffeine
provides.

According to Dave McConnell, the Business Man-
ager for the Treasurer’s office, “free drinks, during exam
week, will continue.” He went on to say that he was
not aware of any ofﬁcial policy change regarding the
issue.

This is welcome news to students like Junior Brooks
Batcheller who saw the free drinks as “another beneﬁt of
going to a small liberal arts college.” He also said that

jigs Brrooxs / Tbe Ringtum Pbi
CRUNCH TIME. Kara Coen serves herself a drink in the Co-
op. Free drinks will remain available this exam period.

Administrators are not sure which policy will come
into effect next year when the Coop facilities will be moved
into a larger dining room in the new University Com-

   

“(the caffeine) is a nice boost.”

f;:.r‘

JOHNSON

BY CALEY ANDERSON
ASSISTANT orrmrous emror

Lisa Johnson, a Washington and
Lee freshman, probably isn’t some-
one you could pick out of the crowd.
You wouldn’t know by looking at this
probable pre-law undergraduate that
she’s also Specialist Lisa Johnson of
the Army Reserve, and that she is now
once again being called upon to serve
her country.

A 20-year old, Johnson was ini-
tially accepted to W&L in the Spring
of 2001, but had to defer admission
for a year due to her obligations to
the Army. She returned this year and
completed her first semester of W&L

&L frshm

ITIOIIS.

studies through Fall Term. In Janu-
ary, however, her Salem/Roanoke
based reserved unit was called
again to active duty, this time to man
Fort Eustis in Newport News, a
transportation center and home to
the U.S. Arrny’s Transportation
Corps, as well as logistics and trans-
portation training centers.

“I would rather be in school
right now, but I made a commitment
to the Army, and I must do my
job...” said ‘Johnson, a Mississippi
native. Her Reserve unit is slated
to complete their duty at Fort Eustis
in one year, but there’s always the
possibility that the Reserve will
choose to extend their terms of ser-
vice. “While I know our duty can
be extended, I certainly hope to be
back in class at W&L this time next
year,” said Johnson.

Johnson’s family has a long
history of military service. In addi-
tion to a younger brother who also
serves in the Army Reserve,
Johnson has a father who is anArrny
Vietnam Veteran, an older brother
who is an Army Desert Storm Vet-
eran, and two other older brothers
who served with the Navy.

Johnson had actually not ini-
tially intended to follow in the foot-
steps of her father and older broth-
ers by entering the service. “Even

an serves in army

though I was in the JROTC in high
school, I had no intentions of going
into the military,” said Johnson. “The
Army Reserve recruiter who came to
visit my younger brother was really
convincing. I saw the Army Reserve
as a great challenge, and a way to
earn money and pay for college.”

At Fort Eustis, Johnson’s duties
include helping legal matters on-base,
though she’s currently assigned to a
hospital transportation detail, mov-
ing patients from the base to various
hospitals throughout Virginia.

Johnson is still unsure of what
she’d like to do after college gradua-
tion, though she received training
from the Army Reserve as a paralegal
and is considering law as a long-tenn
career. Having only completed one
term at Washington and Lee, she also
has not yet decided on a major,
though she notes that the Philoso-
phy and English departments are
possibilities.

Her friends share her hope that
her active duty will conclude next
year, allowing her to return to
school. She’s already been
counted in as a resident for group
housing, but until next year, her
room will sit empty, its occupant in
service to the nation.

Washington and Lee News
Servies contributed to this report.

BY ]EB Brooxs
ASSOCIATE EDITOR

Juvenile susected i fitness center thefts

Trust the Honor System. The ﬁt-
ness center cubbies may now be safer.
After at least four wallets were stolen
from the facility this term, a top sus-
pect has been identiﬁed.

Director of Security, Mike Young
said, “The perpetrator is a 17-year-old
juvenile who was recently released
from custody.” He had been serving
time for theﬁ.

The individual was not seen
stealing, but simply standing suspi-
ciously around the cubbies. He has
been accused only of trespassing. He
may no longer come onto the Wash-
ington and Lee campus. Young said

_ that the individual is the prime candi-
date in the ongoing investigation.

The thief, who has no relation to
the Washington and Lee community,
was identiﬁed on Thursday morning
by Nate Hoey, an Assistant Profes-
sor of Physical Education and the Di-
rector of the Fitness Center.

“(The thief) is not forthcoming
with a confession,” said Young.
Young also said that he did not an-
ticipate pressing any charges against
the juvenile because of his refusal to
admit guilt.

Young warned that, “people still
need to think about their valuables
(because) this isn’t Disney World.”
Young also asked that future theft be
reported to University Security as
soon as possible.

Challenge
to raise money
for charities

BY CHRIS LAUDERMAN
srrrr rnurer

Washington and Lee students can now help the
community just by working out.

Saturday, May 24, the Summit Health and Fitness
Center will be hosting the ﬁrst Fitness Challenge for Char-
ity. Kimberly Durden, Group Fitness Director at Summit,
and Abby Van Veen ’03 are heading up this ultimate test
of endurance, strength, and agility.

Durden approached Van Veen earlier this year about
starting this challenge. The personal trainers at Summit
had been involved with a similar program in which 300 in-
structors participated for charity and felt it would be a great
service outreach for the Washington and Lee community.

Durden said, “It will be a lot of fun. It’s a good way to
introduce the people of Summit to the people of Washing-
ton and Lee. It is a win-win situation for everyone in-
volved.” Members of the Summit Center will also be spon-
soring Washington and Lee teams.

The sororities, fraternities, athletic teams and other carn-
pus organizations have been invited to participate in the chal-
lenge. The faculty and administration are more than welcome
toformtearnsaswell. Tearnsconsistofﬁvemembersthatwill
compete in ﬁve different events. Each memberwill participate
in every event with the exception ofRPM, where the team will
choose one member to represent the group.

These events include: RPM, which essentially is 45
minutes of high energy studio cycling; Interval Step, 21
high intensity cardio workout using a step; Body Pump, a
weight liﬁing program; Cardio Kickboxing, an energetic
workout using kicks and punches; and Yoga, a program
designed to strengthen and stretch the whole body.

Food and drinks will be provided to those who par-
ticipate. Local businesses, such as Graden’s, PB&J, Purnp—
kinseeds, Sunday’s Child, and the Lexington Coﬁee Shop,
will be donating door prizes. Summit will also be giving
away free personal training sessions and t-shirts.

Van Veen commented, “It will be a good opportu-
nity for people to have fun, get ﬁt, spend time with friends
and to raise money for a good cause.” Each team raises
money for a different charity.

Some organizations that already have sponsors in-
clude Court Appointed Special Advocates, Habitat for
Humanity, Cystic Fibrosis, Mental Health Young Life,
RockbridgeArea Free Clinic, Rockbridge Area Recreational
Organization, Neuroblastoma, and a literacy campaign.

Van Veen also noted that all Washington and Lee
men are welcome to take part if they are up to the chal-
lenge. These ﬁtness classes are designed to challenge
even the strongest of the strong.

Ifyou are unable to participate in Saturday’s activities
and still want to make a difference for a charitable organiza-
tion, you can swipe a donation home in front of the co-op
all this week. Durden said that she would like for the Fit-
ness Challenge to become an annual event for the Wash-
ington and Lee Commmiity, so if you carmot make it this
year, start preparing for next year. For more information,
contact Kimberly Durden at kd den4 ahoo.co or
Abby Van Veen at vanve_en_a(a)wlu.edu.

 

 ,3-pm ». , .,,,
L§;' ‘lﬁrﬂl-r':§.&   l {

PAGE 2



Make a friend in town

Now that the Keydets have left town like
“rats” abandoning a sinking ship, Washington
and Lee students will have to look for other
friends around town. Naturally, those of us who
don’t get invited to catchily-named off-campus
houses and didn’t ﬁnd love on the dance floor
at Shipwrecked look to Lexington residents for
companioship. To help, The Ring-tum Phi be-
low offers a helpful guide to improving town/
gown relations.

0 Spend more time at the Mirage. Since
nearly every member of the class of 2004
has turned 21, the Palms is becoming dan-
gerously overcrowded and the Mirage offers
both overflow bar space and the opportunity
to meet new people. They might not be wear-
ing sunglasses and Croakies inside, but Mi-
rage patrons probably have some great sto-
ries to tell.

0 Stop tempting the locals by leaving valu-
ables unattended. The Honor System may ap-
ply to Washington and Lee students, but, alas,
its strictures do not extend to the non-General
denizens of MetroLex. From time to time, the
bubble that surrounds our bucolic campus pops
and reality intercedes. By not giving townies
the opportunity to steal, students can avoid dam-
aging relations with touchy headlines like the
one on the front page.

0 Rather than Randolph-Macon and Mary
Baldwin girls, invite an RCHS Wildcat to the
year’s remaining date functions. What better
way to make a friend than under the hot lights
at Hunan’s or partying the night away in the
Pavilion? Just think, if romance blossoms, you

new friends.

0 Patronize the local art galleries. Lexing-
ton boasts several dozen galleries and the owner
of each is no doubt aching for a customer. Be
the ﬁrst and make a friend.

0 Extend the speaking tradition into the
town. General Lee’s plan was to enhance cam-
pus civility and, with a little effort, W&L stu-
dents can soon be ﬁlling the air on Main and
Jefferson with friendly greetings and sunny
salutations.

0 Finally, demonstrate your solidarity by
updating your SUV’s windows with RCHS blue
pawprints window clings.

can meet her family and have six or seven other .

te of the Week

(W6€piI1g,S0bbiI1g,b1ubb€ring,CIYing)

~GeoffRogow, Virgin Islands Chair
while watching “Dawson’s Creek”



Founder J. Sam Slicer, 1898L
Editor in chief KatieJ. Howell
Associate Editor Jeb G. Brooks
2nd Associate Editor Kyle Wass
Opinions Editor BrettT.Kirwan
Asst. Opinions Editor CaleyAnderson
Arts & Life Editor Catherine C. Guy
Asst. Arts & Life Editor Megan Morgan
Sports Editor Erin E. Julius
Asst. Sports Editor Donny Banks
Photographers CodyGabbarid
Sreya Banerjee
Steven Marinos
Thomas Worthy
Henry Grimball
McQueen Calvert

Business Manager
Circulation Director
Advertising Assistant

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee Univer-
sity, Lexington, Virginia. The Washington and Lee Publi-
cations Board elects the Editor in chief, but The Ring-tum
Phi is otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible submis-
sions and letters. All submissions must be e-mailed to
phi@wlu.edu or in the University Center mailbox by 5
p.m. Friday to appear in the following week’s edition. The
Ring-tum Phi reserves the right to edit subrriissions for con-
tent and length. Letters and columns do not necessarily re-
ﬂect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Ad-
vertising does not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi
or its staff. This newspaper observes current court defmi-
tions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
Mailing Address: University Center
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Street Address: 31 Washington Street
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Fax.‘ (540) 462-4059
Email: phi@wIu.edu
http://phi.wIu.edu

"Ii--iii RI:.\‘(.}~’If‘UNI Pi-ll

PINIONS

Killer D’s

In the pre-dawn hours of Sunday,
May 1 1, a renegade group of 51 Demo-
crats boarded a bus and slipped
through the northern border of Texas
to take refuge in the Holiday Inn of
Ardmore, Oklahoma. These Demo-
crats, members of the Texas House of
Representatives all, were protesting
a bill that would have redrawn the
state’s congressional districts. Only
in Texas. While this stunt may have
garnered national publicity, their child-
ish tantrum served as an emphatic
example of the potential tyranny of
the minority. .

This action occurred much to the
satisfaction of the media, whose lib-
eral tendencies labeled the deserters
as heroes standing up for a cause, not
as greedy sore losers who jeopardized
the stability of an entire state. Unfor-
tunately for them, the facts do not
match their vision of reality.

The Democrats and the media
whine that the Republican redistrict-
ing plan is a partisan gerrymander
designed to place Democratic Con-
gressmen in the unemployment line.
What the Democrats don’t tell you is
that the current map is based on a
1991 Democratic gerrymander, which
the non-partisan Almanac of Ameri-
can Politics called “the cleverest re-
districting plan of the 1990s.” In fact,
the Democrat’s plan is so biased, that,
even though more Texans voted for
Republicans in every election from
1994-2000, Republicans never won
more than 13 of the 30 seats. In 2002,
almost 58% of Texans voted for a Re-
publican, though they only won 15 of
the 32 seats.

Though the House was supposed
to redraw the boundaries in 2000, it was
led by Democrats at that time, and they
shirked their respon-
sibility. Now, the 2002
House wants to finish
the j ob, but the Demo-
crats, angry about
being in the minority and victims of
the sore—loser mentality in general,
would not allow it.

These Democrats, labeled the
Killer D’s by some and (more accu-
rately) the Chicken D’s by others,
chose to run instead of fight because
they knew there was no way they could

France-hating jus

The United States of America has been on good
terms with France for almost the entire 227 years that
the former nation was founded. Save for a brief inter-
ruption around the beginning of the 1800’s when the
two nations came close to war, Americans and French-
men have had a special link in their nations’ respective
histories. From the Marquis de Lafayette and the French
government giving invaluable assistance to the U.S.
break from England during the Revolutionary War to
U.S. generals and politicians paying back the favor
during World Wars I and II, the two nations have long

been close allies.

Yet the atmosphere of international relations in the
early twenty—first century is putting deﬁnite strains on
this traditional relationship. Many Americans view France
as a land of rude snobs and Anglo-Saxon haters, while

I Americans are viewed in France as lazy, uncultured, and

 

9 Q

 

Kevin Bailey

09

shut down Texas
6 A K

 

Yvonne Davis

Q

    

Daina Dukes

<1-It
Mdi

>l',O
ti:

Harold Dutton

 

8

 

David Farabee

Oil:

    

aul Moreno

-4+
<1"§

Qua
our

 

Inc Pickett

RIGHT ON!
IOHN HEATH ‘04 broken quorum—- de-

    

ON

    

Parick Rose Ridlal" R3YmUm1
Q 0 9
Q 9 Z
CARDS COURTESY WWW. tamgqo. org

ACE OF COWARDS. The Texas GOP made a deck of cards featuring the Democrats
who escaped to Ardmore, Oklahoma when confronted with a tough battle.

win. In the 2002 elections, the voters
of the state sent a majority of Republi-
cans—— 88 out of 150 total members——
to the State House. Still, under house
rules, a quorum of 100 members must
be present before any bills may be con-
sidered and voted upon.
Therefore, 51
Democrats— just
enough to ensure a

cided that they knew
better than both the majority of the
Texas House and the majority of the
Texas voters. Even though the vot-
ers sent a Republican majority to the
house, and even though that major-
ity decided that the voters of Texas
would be served by having more re-
flective Congressional districts,



   

crude. This is the result of cultural conﬂict between the

two, with the United States at the center of the ever—ex—
panding world homogenous culture with Hollywood,
Disney, the Top 40 and McDonalds at its
center, whereas France sees its own sto-
ried culture of ﬁne art threatened by the

United States.

The tension from this clash is in part
why U.S. citizens have viewed France with more contempt
than other nations who opposed the Iraq war, such as
Germany and Russia. The simmering disrespect between
the two nations only needed an outlet, and we are now

seeing the political venting.

Both sides have acted childishly and ridiculously.
The House of Representatives made the laughable attempt
to sanitize its menu, infamously calling French Fries “Free—
dom Fries,” and French Toast “Freedom Toast” in a move
that was reminiscent of the rampant anti—Gerrnanism that
prevailed during World War I (ever wonder why sauerkraut
is also known as “liberty cabbage?”) Yet the French lan-
guage pervades the English language to such an extent

    
   

 

“No work, but lots of fun.”
—Aditya Kamath ‘O6

 

“I thught Ias gonna o to

MoDERATE’s MUSINGS
CALEY ANDERSON ‘06

the sort.

Goshen every day.”
-Sarah Murray ‘O6

 

-Philippe Bartholin ‘06

these headline-grabbing, pouting
Democrats decided to paralyze state
government instead of fight the good
ﬁght, even if it is a losing one.

This importance of this stunt is
not just the fact that the redistricting
bill will die, but, because of the unique
fact that the Texas legislature meets
for 140 days every two years, myriad
other bills— including the budget—
will likely die as well. Though some
have argued that the legislature
should only meet for two days every
140 years, the fact that the Texas leg-
islature is part—time makes the Demo-
crats’ genocide of much of the hard
work of the current session uncon-
scionable.

It’s a good thing these Democrats
weren’t ﬁghting at the Alamo.

t marita sp at

PHOTOCOLJRTESY  I‘

DIPLOMACYP Rep Bob Ney (R—Oliio) introduces “Freedom Fries.”

that it would be impossible to remove all French phrases.
The word “menu” itself is French, and shows how futile
and silly the whole affair was.

On the French side, there’s paranoia.

Jean-David Levitte, French ambassador
to the United States, recently delivered a
letter from the French government accus-
ing US. government officials of conducting a covert smear
campaign against France to turn U.S. popular opinion
against them. While the U.S. government has made no
secret of its frustration with Paris, it has done nothing of

The key to this whole situation is not to let paranoia
and resentment take over. France and America have been
storied allies and friends for far too long to let quibbling
issues such as these undermine the greater relationship.
Scott McClellan, White House Press Secretary, gave us
the correct sentiment when he said “. . .the United States
and France have been in marriage counseling since 2000,
that’s all. We are looking to the future.”

 

BREITT. KIRWAM
OPINIONS Fnrioi

EMAl1.'KlRWANB@W1lJ.EDl
MONDAY, MAY 19, 2003»

Morris a dud, Rev.
Sharpton wows

For those of you fortunate enough to attend the
Mock Con Spring Kickoff, you were in the midst of somex
real movers and shakers in the world of American politics.

The first speaker, Dick Morris, made his second
trip to W&L in the past four years to be the ﬁrst speaker
for the event. It was immediately evident why Morris is
a political advisor, and not a politician, himself. While”
Morris provided the audience with a dead-on analysis
of the Democratic presidential hopefuls, he is a hor-
rible speaker.

I am not saying that Morris gives a boring speech, l,
but if he would allow his insight to provide the obvi-
ous comedic value of what he has to say and lay off
the extremely lame
jokes, he would be :1 LEFT OF CENTER
far better orator. Be- '‘
fore anyone had NICK RAMSEY ‘03
even come up to the
microphone, Morris steps up and says, “I accept your
nomination.”

Furthermore, after the second speaker, the Rever-
end Al Sharpton ended his speech on a very poignant
note, Morris leaps up to say, “Hey Al. Why don’t we
go see if General Lee has turned over in his grave?”
These ﬁrst and last word tactics are merely immature)“
Morris seems to have a need to always be the center of
attention. This could be something better, but the man
truly has no charisma and a horrible sense of humor.

As for the Reverend Sharpton, I was utterly amazed‘,
at the insight and common sense that came out of his
mouth during his 35 minute speech. Sharpton started
by responding to Morris, who had put him on the spot
by saying he would say nothing about running as an
independent after losing the Democratic nomination?
He artfully declined to comment on that particular point.
However, I don’t think anyone in attendance expected
him to say, “Why yes, I’ll run as an independent ifl
lose the Democratic nomination.” K

Sharpton hit on some terribly relevant issues and
said simply what needed to be said. He truly took the
Bush administration to task on Iraqi policy. He reminded H
his listeners that Colin Powell went to the UN security
council stating Washington had intelligence that lo-
cated numerous sites of weapons of mass destruction
in Iraq.

But now the Bush administration is saying it will)‘
take time to locate these things. If Washington knew
where these weapons were before the war, it is obvious
that they should still be in the same place after the war.
The Iraqi army had no time to fight American troops
and move weapons once war had begun.

Moreover, The Washington Postreported this past
weekend that UN inspectors were leaving Iraq because
they have beenunable to find any?vveapons.’~ ‘ "

Sharpton went on to say, thai he, of course, is;
happy Saddam is out of power. This is a good‘ thing.
He doesn’t like terrorism and said, of course, no one
does. But Sharpton took this point in his speech to say
that this war was not given the spoils that were prom-
ised and has cost this already indebted country to cre-’
ate the biggest deficit in its history.

Sharpton took on the criminal justice system and
its mandatory sentences for minor drug offenders.
Meanwhile, he pointed out, CEOs who have robbed ,(
thousands of their life savings are walking free. I agree
with him that this is not justice.

The Reverend also noted that Lexington Police
could pull you over and know within a few minutes of
your entire driving history. Meanwhile, we are using*‘
voting machines that are ancient, unreliable, and irre-
sponsible to use to make such major decisions.

Sharpton spoke on many other issues, and I found
myself agreeing with him on every point. The only ﬂaw,
in his speech was the use of the word “reconfigurate,”
which isn’t actually a word. However, many of those I
later heard snickering about this are those that support
our President who once asked the question, “Is our
children learning?” )‘

But the fact remains that Al Sharpton, even with
his truly Democratic ideals and solid goals, will not win
the Democratic nomination. He is too closely associ-
ated in the minds of many Americans with the likes of
Jesse Jackson, who quite frankly, is about as effective
in advancing the plight of African Americans as Pat
Robertson is in advancing gay rights.

Moreover, many still associate Sharpton with his
past campaigns of civil disobedience and often dis--.
agreed with his goals and tactics in the past. But the
Reverend seems to have become a different man with
more palatable political ideas and tactics in his old age.

Sadly, I believe the third strike against him is his
race. While America does claim more and more to be a”
truly colorblind country, I’m not convinced that the
populace of this nation is ready to elect an African-
American president.

I do hope, however, that enough noise is created to ,,
force both Bush and the Democrat that wins the nomi-
nation to take a hard look at the issues Sharpton raises.

A.

8

in

,,

..It,S a tase” “Lemme ust say I’m pro- “Spring Term roks because ,,
Spring Term” pants are optional

-Lara Gibson, ‘O6

-Dennis Bailey, ‘O6

 

V

4

ICAII-IERINEC. GUY

AKlS&LlFEEDl'llOR
EMAIL-GUY<@wIIIEDu
MONDAY, MAY 19, 2003

  
 

 

'I'I:-Iflfi RING?  

RTS

 

LIFT

 

.New spa ‘cascades’ into Lex

BY CATHERINE C. GUY
ARTS 8: LIEE EDITOR

Tucked away behind construction just past the
bridge on Route 11 North lies a hidden gem. Cascades
Day Spa opened on April of this year, bringing Lexington
residents and W&L students countless opportunities

‘ for luxurious living in small town America.

A

«L

Owner Anne Munson said that the experience has
been “wonderful so far.” Munson, a resident of
Waynesboro, Virginia, has a Masters degree in Higher
Education and Administration from James Madison
University. This is her first business, and prior to the
opening of Cascades, she ran the esteemed Virginia
School of Massage. She worked at the School for a year
and a half before deciding to open her own spa.

She chose Lexington as the location for her spa as
a result of her husband’s long-standing interest in the
town. When the couple came to Lexington to look into
spa opportunities in the area, they learned that people
had been traveling to Charlottesville, Roanoke and the

I Homestead in Hot Springs, Va., in order to experience

spa offerings. In other words, Lexington was more than
ready for its own spa.

The focus of Cascades is on health, rather than
beauty, or as Munson says “beauty from the inside out.”
Instead of manicures, pedicures, and hair styling, the
offerings at Cascades focus on the body and skin. These
treatments include the standard massages and facials, as
well as many other body treatments. These treatments
include hand and foot exfoliating and a scalp and hair
treatment which is great for hair health as well as scalp
conditions and psoriasis. Other options include body
wraps, which are “great for skin health and detoxiﬁcation,”
said Munson. Interestingly, body wraps can also be quite
helpful for those who are trying to quit smoking, because

.,- they remove the nicotine from the body, thus decreasing
‘cravings. Also available is microderrnabrasion, which

serves as an alternative to glycolic peels, exfoliating dead

i skin cells with a quicker recovery rate. One particularly
 popular massage is the Melting Mineral Massage, which
_ is done with heated smooth stones.

Overall, these
offerings all promote overall physical and mental wellness

. and relaxation. When asked whether Cascades will ever

open a salon, Munson said, “it’s a possibility in the
future.” She has received mixed feedback on this issue,

- as some feel that Cascades is a “nice, peaceful place to
come to” as is, and will become too loud and energetic
.. with the addition of a salon.

The interior of Cascades is extraordinarily

, beautiful. Munson and her husband “designed the

layout on a piece of graph paper over a bottle of wine.”
The spa consists of several treatment rooms, a beautiful

IW&L Archaeolo 

BY MEGAN MORGAN
ASSISTANT ARTS AND LIFE EDITOR

As you head past the Liberty Ruinstowand the Tennis Center
orthe Pavilion, you might have noticed a red farmhouse on your
right. Unbelcnownst to many, this nine room farmhouse, which
dates back to the nineteenth century and until recently, was used
forstoragearidfacultyhousingistlie Laboratory ofAnthropology.

After being given to the Anthropology Department in
1984 the farmhouse was redone, with the department adding
a computer lab, a dark room, a draﬁing table and screens to
dry artifacts. In addition, they created a small museum to
display some of the more interesting artifacts from theirvarious
digs such as excavated pottery from the six local potteries
that were located in the area during the 1800s. They are
currently in the process of adding a student lounge in the
hopes of encouraging students to spend more time there.

During spring term, the laboratory has become the
headquarters for Dr. Alison Bell’s Anthropology 3 77, Field
Techniques in Archaeology. Bell and James Hepner,
W&L’s staff archaeologist, instruct the students
excavating sites at the Longdale Mining Complex. The
Mining Company, which once owned over 200,000 acres of
land inthe area, started in the l820’s and was abandoned in
191 1. The 30 students in the archaeology class are focusing
on mining communities, looking at the yards of miners in three
separate communities and trying to answer questions about

' the miners’ daily lives such as how much food did the miners

0000 0.000 00,0 0.000 0_0‘0_90,0‘ 0,0 0,_,000._00.0 0_0\_0_‘0,_,0_0_0,0

and their families grow for themselves, how many of the items

 

 

  

 

    

JED BRO0KS/ the R-tum Phi
LUXURY: On of the Treatment Rooms at Cascades Day Spa

‘Tranquility Room,’ a ‘Wet Room,’ and a ‘Multipurpose
Room’ which is available for rent to organizations.
Munson states that the lovely and relaxing decor of
Cascades is “understated tropical.” Others have
described it as having a Madagascar inﬂuence or “very
feng shui.” Munson says that a common reaction of
people who first enter the spa is “I had no idea it was
going to be this nice.” Munson and her husband used
seven years of trade magazines for research and spent
six months shopping all over the state of Virginia.
Munson says that at Cascades, “the décor is part of
the experience,” and it should not be overwhelming to
the patrons.

Cascades has a staff of six massage therapists, an
esthetician and a herbalist/aromatherapist. All of these
individuals are extremely kind and accommodating, as
well as experienced. As more people take advantage of
the opportunities at Cascades, more staff personnel will
be hired. All of the current therapists are certiﬁed in
Virginia or are in the process of transferring their
certification to Virginia from other states.

The most popular treatments offered at Cascades
include the Melting Mineral Massage, the ‘Head to Toe
Harmony’ package (which consists of a facial, massage,
and hand and foot revitalization), and the Herbology
Total Body Smoother (which consists of combined
massage and total body exfoliation and has an effect
that lasts for 3 to 4 weeks). Each month, Cascades offers
a different special. In May, this is ‘Gifts for Moms, Dads,
and Grads,’ and June offers ‘Back to the Beach’.

Overall, Munson said that she is “thrilled that
everyone has been so welcoming,” and that her goal
now is to get them in for treatments. With the beautiful
and calming décor, the friendliness and experience of
the staff, and range and appeal of available treatments,
Cascades is sure to have a brilliant future.

3%

   

ists dig p fun

JEB BROOIS/ the Ring-tum Phi

L-LJ

PAGE 3

All you need is a pick-up

This article is not about a truck.
Nonetheless, there is one truck, namely
mine own, which deserves mention.
Recently, one of our school’s security
guards, Mel Davis, spotted my 1984
poop-brown Chevy S-1 0 Pickup in the
Lambda Chi parking lot. He decided
he had to have it. If you have enjoyed
a ride in my truck, or have even seen
the decrepit thing, please try to hide
your astonishment - Mr. Davis told me
that he’d buy it for a reasonable price,
but, unfortunately for both him and
myself, my dad has
refused to let me sell it.

force you to guard him close, and then
he’ll blow right past you for the easy
lay—in, He also has that uncanny knack
to hang in the air as long as possible
to force the ball into the bucket.

PHI KAP: Chris Carlson —
Though Gavin Kimball can be a
valuable ﬂoor leader, and Ed can be
lights—out from a distance, sophomore
Chris Carlson is the true stud. His
turn—around jumper in the paint is
crafty and almost always goes in, even
when you know its coming. Also,

Chris has mastered
the art of the no-

So, as I had always ABgOLUT FRATLORD jump 3—pointer,
suspected, the Poop , , , adding a deadly
Truck is inexorablytied TIM 5MITH  long range aspect
to my soul. to his game.

But, as I said, this article is not about
trucks. Far from it. This article is about
something so much more important.

Despite being of the D111 school
variety, our varsity sports get plenty of
publicity on campus. And when varsity
doesn’t cover something, intramurals
step in. But there is another underlying
athletic culture, one much more pure and
unmanageable, that lies beneath the
surface of the school’s recognizable
sports. It is another one of those unique
W&L elements that has become a
permanent ﬁxture in the daily lives of
many students.

At about 3:30 in the afternoon,
on just about every weekday, a
random collection of W&L guys get
together in the gym and play pick-up
basketball. The rules are simple. You
play to win, so you can play again.
Your sweat is rewarded with more
sweat. You run faster so you can keep
running against the next team. To
those who have never been a part of
this experience, it may not seem like
anything worth considering, but to
those involved, basketball becomes
life for an hour and a half.

It would be tough to describe the
phenomenon to those who have not
witnessed it. Instead, l’ll do my best
to pay tribute to those pick-up ball
All—Stars who represent their houses
and give it their all on the hardwood
(in no particular order):

KAPPA SIG: Bennett Moore —
Bennett’s versatility is only matched
by his effort on the ﬂoor. His height
makes him a valuable rebounder, but
his range from beyond the arc makes
guarding him a challenge. His post-
play is sketchy at times, but with his
clutch shooting, he’s bound to burn
you one way or the other.

PHI PSI: Todd Chatham — Todd is
anunrivaled offensive threat. He’ll jack
up the tre with enough accuracy to

PI PHI: Adam Heinauer — l’ve
seen him take over an entire game with
speed and pure talent. Probably the
best all—around threat on the ﬂoor.
Adam can control the tempo, sink the
three, and his penetration move is one
of the best the pick-up game has
seen. He may not be the tallest guy
on the ﬂoor, but he always plays like
he’s the best.

SAE: Jake McAlli§er-T he E-dawgs
boast a number of fonner varsity stars,
but Big Jake is the cream of the crop. He
may not run the ﬂoor like he did in his
youth, but Jake has all the post moves
and is guaranteed to get his share of
rebounds with his size. The frat boy
headband is another plus in his game.

SIGMACHI: Ryan Small—Th0ugh
the Sigmachees boast a number of
skilled pick-up ballers in the likes of

-Trotter and Droppers, Ryan Small is

really the best of the lot. Rest assured,
he’ll shoot from just about anywhere,
and he makes a high enough percentage
to make him a constant threat.

SIG EP: JustinAllegro - Intramural
Czar Mike Hoover is a recognizable
threat when he’s on the ﬂoor, but
Allegro can take over and dominate
game. He may not be the most athletic
player on the ﬂoor, but he has all the
intangibles, moves well without the ball,
and will hit the three—ball if you don’t
give him the respect he deserves.

FIJI: Ben Jones — Chris Caramore
might argue with this selection, but
Ben Jones has the intensity and skills
to control a game. When matched with
former pick-up baller Ryan Pace, they
were all but unstoppable. Now, Ben
plays solo, taking it to the rack with
reckless abandon and hitting the long
jumper when needed.

BETA: Evan J aysane—Darr-Along
with Todd Chatham, Evan is probably
the most unguardable player on the
ﬂoor. His baseline moves are ﬂawless.

He hits the 3 all the time. He can run
the point without error. If you ﬁnd
yourselves picking up teams, Evan is
a must—have, no questions asked.

KAPPA ALPHA: Will Cotter —
Another former Gennies Baller, Cotter
runs the point and leads a team with
experience and saavy. When his tre-
bomb is on ﬁre, the game might as
well be over. Look for him to make
the smart pass, take it in for the easy
lay—in, and play enough defense to
keep your team on top.

LAMBDA CHI: Tim Smith — No
stranger to se1f—gloriﬁcation, l’ll give
myself the nod for representative from
Lambda Chi. My jumper comes and
goes, and my dribbling skills are always
questionable, but my post—move arsenal
has expanded through the years, and
my sheer height helps with rebounding.
Newcomers Seth Jones and Brent
“Pops” Beshore are also valued
contributors to the pick-up level of play.

CHI PSI: Jeremy Kimball — Not
too many pick-up ballers ever stray
out of the Lodge. In this case, we’ll
give the nod to Jeremy Kimball. .He
can shoot the three, and there’s not
much more you can ask for.

SIGMANU: Dave Crowell—Dave
plays a strong all—around game. He
has enough height to challenge in the
post and claim his share of rebounds,
and his jumper is strong enough to
extend his offensive range and take
you away from the basket. He’ll set
good screens, crash the boards, and
do whatever needed to get the win.

PIKA: Kerry Kellogg — Though
he’s not as good in pick-up as he is in
3—on—3 with Hetterman and Ben—yo,
Kerry provides match-up problems
with his quickness. With his long-
distance shot often missing
everything entirely, he’s best as a
penetrator, taking it to the rack or
dishing off the easy pass.

PHI DELT: Billy DeBuys — Gone
are the Phi Delt pick-up glory days of
athletic god Will Postma and
downtown bomber Jack Arnold.
These days, the Phi Delts don’t play
as much ball as in years past, but of
those who play,.Billy isthe best. He ’s
fast as hell and plays a sound game.
He’s a ringer at Ultimate Frisbee too,
and to yours truly, that’s a bonus.

Pick—up basketball may not be the
center of the universe, but to those that
play, it makes life worth living for as long
as you’re on the ﬂoor. These 15 are
only the tip of the iceberg — come by the
gym every aﬁemoon at 3:30, and see
for yourself. It may be just another one
of those wonderful W&L traditions that
you didn’t even know exists.

     
   

,esale “store    

drelocicired in «tom:

.24 u  I

OOOOOIOOOOOOCO

THE BIG DIG: Gavin Molinelli andjess Taylor work in class.

they owned were bought locally and what was the quality of
the articles that they owned. Students excavate the yards of
the miners and bring the artifacts, which include combs, bottles
for medicine, buttons and bones, back to the Laboratory of
Anthropology in order to wash them, label them and enter
them into a Microsoft database. Everything they bring back
must be processed, and so generally for every one hour spent
in the ﬁeld they spend six to eight hours in the lab.

Dr. Bell said that she thinks that “the dig is an important
part of the archaeology/anthropology and sociology/
anthropology majors.” It not only allows the students time to
do actual ﬁeldwork but also allows them to take small artifacts
such as pieces of a bottle or a nail and see how the pieces ﬁt
together into a larger pattern. The boxes of artifacts contained
in the Laboratory of Anthropology are a testimony to the

daunting nature of this task.

     
 

 
 

  

King: ‘Danke schoen, Deutschland’

BY HAYNES KING
TRAVEL CORRESPONDENT

You may have thought, thanks to my wonderful weekly
articles, that Lexington has a plethora of sights to see within
close proximity to the campus of Washington and Lee. That it
does, but let me tell you about a place you should deﬁnitely not
miss out on. It may be a little farther than our trip to the Natural
Bridge Wax Museum, but Germany has a lot to offer. That’s
right, Deutschland. Who would’ve thought there was so much
to see within only a 9 hour ﬂight across the Atlantic Ocean?

I’ve now been in the city of Bayreuth in Franconia for a
month, and you would not be disappointed at what you
could see here. Edelweiss German Restaurant. . .eat your heart
out! Bratwurst, Sauerkraut, Wiener schnitzel —you name it.

Now, here are my recommendations for your own trip to
Germany. I’ve only seen Upper Franconia, but I hear that
Bavaria is beautiful. I’m waiting to depart on my 10 day trip
through Germany visiting this area. Highlights of my trip may
include the BMW Museum in Munich, Neuschwanstein (‘most
will recognize this from the fairytale castle at Walt Disney’s
Magical Kingdom), and Dackau Concentration Camp.

Germany isn’t completely stuck in the 80’s still, yet
Knight Rider and the A—team do come on TV regularly. The
Germans insist that they are not as obsessed with David
Hasselhoff as we believe. I’m not buying it. I realize it can
be difﬁcult to break out of the every day routine of W&L
life, but if you get the chance, hop the short ﬂight to Ger-
many. You won’t be disappointed. All in all, Germany gets
an amazing 5 out of 5 Tridents. And it is so close.

Don Tequila
Mariachi band night!

“La Tierra" from Greensboro

Wednesday May 28, 6-9 p.m.

Drink specials on
Margaritas and Beer

  

 

ERiN]UuLs
SPOKIS FDIIOR

F)\lAll:]UIlLlSE@WlD.E11l

nit RING-TUl\l Pitt

MONDAY, MAY 19, 2003

W&L football looking
for improvement next season

BY BARRETI‘ DAWS
SPORTS writer

Coming out ofa 5-5 season,
Generals’ football is looking for
improvement in next year’s team.
Sophomore Chris Caramore said
that the team “is willing to do
whatever it takes to have a win-
ning season next year”. There is
no question that the team has its
work cut out for it, graduating
eleven seniors, including All-
American running back Chris
Sullivan.

Despite the heavy losses,
junior defensive back Geoff
Rogow feels confident. “We
have seven of the eleven start-
ing defensive players coming
back next year so it should re-
main solid,” he said on the situa-
tion.

Twenty-two incoming fresh-
men will aid the returning play-
ers. Tracy Antonik, Hunter Baird,
Philip Cossich, James McDougall,
John Garland, David Graham, Brad
Minor, Bannon Thorpe, Colton
Ward, Chas Collins, Hunter
Dawkins, Robert Foster, Thomas
Grattan, Dan Hackett, William
Hatfield, Garrett LeRose, Ben
Long, Ryan Neff, Robert Rain,
Ryan Sullivan, Peter Weiss, and
Hunter Whitﬁeld, the brother of
current player Whit Whitﬁeld, will
all put on Generals uniforms next
year. Along with the new fresh-
men, Michael Lackett will be join-
ing the Generals as a sophomore
transfer.

“If the team is going to be
successful next year, the incom-
ing freshman will really have to
step up to the plate and play

hard,” freshman offensive line-
man Trey Allen commented.
The running seems to have been
a focus of the recruiting, with
freshman running back Wheeler
Sparks out for probably the en-
tire season with a torn ACL.
Overall, the team will add three
running backs, two freshmen
and the transfer, and a fullback
to the roster.

Next year should be suc-
cessful for the Generals. The re-
turning players seem ready to take
the ﬁeld in search of a winning sea-
son. “I am looking forward to next
season because we should have a
strong team,” said sophomore Wes
Kimmel.

Junior offensive lineman Mark
Muchmore shares his optimism in
looking toward the upcoming sea-
son. “I think that we can go as far
as we want if we push the limits
next year,” he said regarding his
perspective on the 2003 season.

The schedule for next
year has only four home games.
The ﬁrst will be on Saturday, Sept.
27 against Centre College, the sec-
ond on Saturday, Oct. 11 against
Catholic, the third on Saturday,
Nov. 1 against Bridgewater, and
the fourth on November 15th
against Greensboro College. Cer-
tainly, this home lineup will prove
difﬁcult. Bridgewater stands as
a perennial national powerhouse,
and two of the other teams,
Catholic and Centre, defeated the
Generals last season.

Nonetheless, with a solid
group of freshmen returning and
with a tough, determined mindset,
the Washington and Lee football
team should see a winning record.

Kappa Delta wins
intramural tourney this year

BY Mm CHRISTOPHER
SPORTS WRITER

Throughout the year many so-
rority members take part in an Intra-
mural competition. A variety of
sports are played in this “Sorority
Challenge”, the goal being that each
sorority garners enough members
for eligibility to play and to play com-
petitively.

Kappa started the Tournament
out strong in the fall with their Golf
victory; yet, lost their winning streak
fast when Theta conquered the Soc-
cer IM.

In the winter, Kappa Delta was
victorious in both Basketball and
The Turkey Trot, while Chi Omega
claimed their own title for swim-
ming.

Theta soon struck again, with
their victory in Volleyball. In the ﬁ-
nal event all ﬁve sororities were
blown away in bowling, won by law
students.

Soccer and Volleyball are the
most popular of the tournament
sports and there is lots of participa-
tion.

V The games are an opportunity
for athletic competition in a laid back
and “ftm” environment. Girls from
each sorority go to events to cheer
on their sisters.

’ The girls get a chance to inter-
act with friends in other sororities,
along with Law students that they
‘never would have meet without the
Intramural program.

_ Each sorority is responsible for
having an IM chair. There is also
and overall IM chair and a faculty
chair, Coach Carrﬁeld.

The overall chair is Kerry
Barrett. She feels that although many

girls are involved with the activi-
ties, “participation can be pretty low
at times.”

She remarked how each soror-
ity unfortunately misses at least
one of the games throughout the
year, most often due to lack of par-
ticipation on behalf of the mem-
bers.

She hopes everyone realizes
the amount of time and effort that
goes into each sport, “It can be
extremely frustrating to get refs,
gyms and ﬁelds reserved, equip-
ment, rules straightened out, and
so forth. to then have no one
show up. I try to avoid nights
that I know will be hard to get
participation, but I guess the girls
have things they would rather
do.”

With regard to advertising,
Kelly stated it was “difficult”. At
the beginning of the year the pro-
gram started with so many goals
and hopes yet, due to lack of par-
ticipation, those responsible be-
come “discouraged and frus-
trated.”

Despite minor setbacks, Barrett
and many enthusiastic sorority girls
show faith and excitement towards
next year ’s program.

The new head of Intramurals
will be Nancy Francis, the current
chair for Theta, who shows much
promise and dedication. She hopes
to add an additional sport such as
Frisbee, Kickball, or Badminton.
The idea is to ﬁnd a new sports
that interest a wide spectrum of
girls.

In sum, with only a few weeks
leﬁ of school the tournament has
ended and Kappa Delta has been
declared the winner.

Phi sports

: Just do it.

laInS1.000-$2.000
injuutlhoursl

     

Fmnrhiwliz claim an. filing quadctr. Get

   

iicallege l"|..tl’1dl3l‘S:l§iI_-i: :'r*.3d»:- Simple, $112» and Free.

foryaurﬁhadentﬁmup

 kxiikaéihg options. nitrate. No  No  Just 

with the pt-omms this mitt

Qc...e...mpm

Your rmna: for Cottage rmuimaing. E
888 -92 3 - 32 3 8 - www. ca.rn;:usttmdr.a.i 5-ar.com

PORTS

PAGE 4

Men’s intramural tournament

nearly over; Fiji,

Lambda Chi lead

Organization ‘ Golf Tennis Football
Fiji 78 95 87
Lambda Chi 81 90 87
Sigma Chi 84 81 87
Pi Phi 1 O0 87 75
PIKA 95 90 87
Kappa Sig 90 100 78
Sig Ep 87 84 81
Beta 0 81 90
Phi Kap 0 0 84
Chi Psi 0 81 78
Sigma Nu 0 78 75
KA 0 0 78
L a w 0 0 1 00
SAE 0 0 78
Phi Psi O 87 78
Phi Delt 0 O 95
Faculty 0 0 O
independents 0 0 0

Soccer Volleyball Squash Racquetball Basketball Bowling Swimming Wrestling T.T. Ultimate Total
78 87 90 95 95 66 95 100 100 87 1153
81 87 87 100 81 90 81 84 95 100 1144
84 87 100 90 87 87 84 95 90 87 1143
87 78 84 0 87 100 90 81 87 84 1040
87 90 84 0 84 78 78 78 0 90 941
90 87 87 0 84 84 0 75 O 87 862
81 95 0 0 90 75 75 75 0 81 824
87 90 0 87 90 81 0 87 0 87 780
90 1 00 87 0 84 72 87 90 0 84 778
78 78 0 0 84 75 72 ' 75 0 84 705
78 78 0 0 78 69 0 75 0 78 609
84 81 87 0 81 95 O 0 0 81 587
84 0 95 0 87 0 0 75 O 0 441
81 0 87 0 87 0 0 0 O 95 428
0 84 0 0 78 O 0 O 0 78 405
0 0 90 0 84 O 0 0 0 90 359
95 0 0 0 1 00 0 100 O 0 0 295
1 00 O 0 0 84 0 0 0 0 O 184

BY ERIN JULIUS
sports EDITOR

Fiji is currently leading the
Men’s Intramural Sports Tourna-
ment with a score of 1153. Mem-
bers from all of Washington and
Lee’s fraternities, a group of law stu-
dents, the faculty and a group of in-
dependents all participate in the
tournament.

Currently, Lambda Chi Alpha,
Sigma Chi, Pi Kappa Phi and Pi Kappa
Phi are following close behind Fiji.

Fiji has won the Wrestling
and Turkey Trot tournaments,
with Lambda Chi winning Rac-
quetball and Ultimate Frisbee.
Sigma Chi won squash, with Pi
Phi winning the golf and bowling
tournies.

Other highlights include Kappa
Sig winning tennis, Phi Kap winning
volleyball, the law students winning
football, the faculty winning basket-
ball and swimming and a group of in-
dependents winning soccer.

Currently, the intramural teams
are competing in a soﬁball touma-
ment.

Regarding the softball tourna-
ment, as for “our outstanding soft-
ball players,” said Chi Psi’s IM
Chair Mike Lee, “junior Andy
Lunsford’s power hitting has been
key to our offense. Junior Tom
Herbert and senior Jeff Meriggi
have been outstanding in the out-
ﬁeld.”

George Auerbach of Phi Psi, which
is currently 1-2 in the softball tourna-
ment, says that the sport is one of his
fraternity’s best and that, “Will
Hamilton is consistently one of our
best athletes in IM competition,” he
said.

As for softball tournament stand-

   

  

Snsv MAiuNos / Tb: Ring-tum P/It

ULTIMATE! Lambda Chi freshman Sethjones jumps up to catch the frisbee in a recent Ultimate Frisbee match.

ings, Phi Delt, Pi Phi and Fiji have the
strongest records of 2-0. KA and SAE
each have records of 1-1. Beta and
Lambda Chi each have 1-0 records. Chi
Psi is 0-2, Kappa Sig is 1-2, Phi Psi is 1-

2, PIKA is 0-1 and Sigma Snu is 0-3 in
the softball tournament.

The softball semiﬁnals will be
May 26 with the Championships be-
ing held on May 27.

Women’s tennis advances
in NCAA tourney, but finishes 2nd

BY JOHN HYLAND
SPORTS warren

As the last W&L spring sports team
still competing, the wornen’s tennis team
has not disappointed After cruising past
their opponents in the ﬁrst two rormds of
theDivision1lINCAAto1miamentbywin-
ning 17 outofapossrble 18 matches, they
qualiﬁed to compete for anNCAA cham-
pionshipinRedlands,Califomialastweek

The Generals have been thoroughly
dominaﬁng throughout the season They
headed to California as the ODAC cham-
pionswitha22—1 overallrecordandanum-
ber2nationalrarildng.Orilytwiceallsea-
son have they lost more than two iridi-

vidual matches against an opponent The
GmeralsdominationoftheODACwasevi—
dent last Tuesday when the conference
released its conference all-stars. All seven
of the Generals
regular players re-
ceivedﬁrst-teamall-
ODACrecognition
In NCAA tennis
competitions, there
are six singles
matches and three
doubles matches
but ﬁve of the six
W&L single play-
ersalsocornpeteindoubles. SeniorErika
ProkowasnamedODACplayeroftheyear,

"'""' AGERMAN

 

whileheadcoach CindaRankinwasnarned
ODAC coach of the year.

W&L faced Pomona—Pitzer in a
quarterﬁnal match last Wednesday and
defeated them easily, 8-1. Every W&L
player earned at least one victory The win
placedtheGeneralsinlastThursday’s semi-
ﬁnal againstAmherst Once again, the Gen-
eralsbarelyhadtosweatina7-2 victory.

The win gave the Generals a school record V

24thwinandeamedthemaspotinFriday’s
national ﬁnal against top ranked Emory.
TheGeneralscnlylossoftheseasoncarne
at the hands of the Eagles who defeated
them 8-1 on March 30 inAtlanta. The two
teamshadfacedeachatotaloffointirries
intheNCAAtournarnentwithEmorywin-

 

On May 25, there will be an intra-
mural Ping Pong tournament. On Sun-
day, Farhan Mustafa of Lambda Chi
won the badmitten portion of the In-
tramural tournament.

ningeachtime,includingthe 1996ﬁnals.

Unfortunately, the Generals ﬁrstnational
championship eluded them, as they were
defeated 5-1 by the
Eagles. W&L’s
lonevictorycamein
ﬁrst doubles, as
Proko and sopho-
more Lindsey
Hagerrnan were
able to defeat their
Emory opponents.
While the team’s
seasoncomestoan
end, both Proko and Hagerman qualiﬁed
to compete in the Division III individual
singles and doubles tournaments

Massage Therapy by

(540) 264-0063

Kelly Harris, BA, CMT

 

Teaching techniques in S-T-R-E-S-S Management!
* Gift Certificates And Packages Avai!abIe*

 

 

'11.

   

T/re Iirrilent mice of W/niiiington and Ur Urrinerrin Iinre 7897 CD On/inc at: piirlu/irr.edn

PHI

 3 
VOLUME CVl,No.V

MONDAY, MAY 26, 2003

Commons construction nearly complete

Twenty million dollar building will have limited dining room seating, movie theatre turned biology lecture center, party-ready loading dock larger than Pavillion

BY ERIN JULIUS AND KYLE WAss
sI>oRIs EDITOR AND ASSOCIATE EDITOR

Construction of the new Univer-
sity Commons is continuing as sched-
‘uled, Associate Dean of Students
Leroy “Buddy” Atkins said. The ex-
terior of the building should be com-
plete, and the interior should be ﬁn-
ished sometime over the summer in
ﬂtime for a grand opening celebration
in September.
TheCommomwillbe“waimandwel—
oominglooking,”DeanI_eroyAtkins said.
A_ A lot of effort has been put into
ensuring that the new building blends
appropriately with the older architec-
ture on campus. The three sides fac-
ing the Colonnade have been build in
A the traditional style while the side fac-
ing Woods Creek is designed to have
a more modern feel, with large open
windows and several open patio ar-
eas overlooking the beautiful view.
A challenge of the design in en-
suring that the Commons would ﬁt in
with the rest of the campus was guar-
,i anteeing that it would not surpass the

Colonnade in height. Modern electri- ,

cal features made this difﬁcult for the
architects, as they had to fitiall the
duck-work into a smaller design. The
Commons is now level with Newcomb
Hall in height.

One feature of the interior is the im-
pressive iron and steel circular staircase
complete with Brazilian bluestone stairs.

The goal of the architects was to
maintain open spaces and invite lots
of light to create a relaxed atmosphere.
Atkins’s hope is that this space will,
“be a comfortable place for people to
hang out,” he said.

H V The Commons will be open for
student use 24-hours a day. Students
will have access to four different Re-
source Rooms, small student study
centers and lounges at all hours.

Each Resource Room has a dif-

‘ ferent theme and is decorated to re-
ﬂect the group for whom the Resource
Room is made. The Women’s Studies
Program, Outing Club, International
programs and Volunteer Services will

I‘ all be getting Resource Rooms. The
rooms, however, will be available by
appointment for all students.

Another interesting aspect of the

A new building is a “traditional meeting
room” with approximately 50 chairs.
Atkins said that this room would be
“available to campus religious
groups.” Religious leaders will have

“ access to a small office off the meet-
ing room for times they wish to be

BY KYLE WAss
ASSOCIATE EDITOR

,* This week, Professor H. Tho-
' mas Williams Jr. was named pro-
vost of Washington and Lee Uni-
versity, replacing Laurent
Boetsch, who has decided to step
1 down from the
position to re-
turn to teach-
ing.
William s
has served on
the Washing-
ton and Lee
faculty since
a 1974, both ad-
vising and
teaching, as well as helping to
' build and expand the physics and
engineering department’s pro-
grams, which led him to chair the
I department from 1989-2000, before
which he served as associate
‘dean of the college from 1986-
4 ‘ 1989. He was named the
University’s Edwin A. Morris Pro-
I fessor ofPhysics in 1994. During
his career at Washington and Lee,
’ Williams has also published 28
scientific articles based on re-
9 search in theoretical nuclear and
particle physics.
Williams will serve in his cur-
4 rent position as acting dean ofthe
College until July 1, when he will
undertake his duties as provost.

ILLIAMS

 

available exclusively to the students
of the University.

This meeting room is near the, “big,
collaborative space surrounded by 24

Burish picks V\ﬁ||iams as Provost

This position, second only to the
presidency, requires Williams to
be responsible for the administra-
tive management of W&L units in-
cluding admissions, athletics, in-
stitutional research, University
Computing, the University
Registrar’s office, Leyburn Li-
brary, student life offices, special
and interdisciplinary programs,
international education and mu-
seum programs. He will also be
an important figure in the deci-
sions to hire new faculty as well
as the annual evaluation of fac-
ulty and administrators.

The provost is responsible for
the overall management and bud-
geting of all academic programs,
and the deans of the College, the
Williams School of Commerce, Eco-
nomics, and Politics, and the
School of Law report directly to
him. As provost, Williams will also
work closely with the Board of
Trustees’ Academic Affairs Com-
mittee.

According to a press release,
Williams said that his biggest contri-
bution to Washington and Lee “has
been in teaching a collection of very
talented students: encouraging them
when that was needed, challenging
them when the time came and stand-
ing aside when it was time for them to
[go] solo. In fact, that is Washington
and Lee’s biggest contribution to me,
too.”

-;.-.u.....,_,

JEB BROOKS / The Ringtum Pin"
at the students’ disposal. In addition,
there will be several common copiers
and fax machines available to all. This
student meeting space also features a

cubicles,” for student organizations.
The cubicles can be rearranged to suit
various organizations’ needs. Each
cubicle will have a phone and computer

i“

UP IN sI\IoI;E

COURIEYKIMKREIDER
Fire. No one was injured, but two vehicles were damaged when a Ford Astro van (center) caught
fire Sunday morning at Zollman’s Pavillon. The driver is not a Washington and Lee student and
turned into the Pavillon area after noticing smoke rising from his hood. He opened the hood,
and the car burst into ﬂames causing considerable damage to the van and slight melting to an
SUV (left) parked nearby. Lexington Rescue Squad responded to the incident but reported no
injuries. The driver, reportedly an amateur disc jockey, managed to remove his compact disc
collection before the ﬁre reached the back part of the van. i

   

 

common kitchen area and loﬁ over-
looking the great room.

' “The architect really caught what
we were looking for in the religious

]EI3 BROOKS /' Tiie Ring-Iur21PlIr
STAIRWAY T0 HEAVEN. (Left) An iron and steel spiral staircase
is the centerpiece of the University Commons lobby. The
steps are covered in Brazilian blue stone tiles.
I’M Too SEXY. (Top) Two catwalks span the interior of the
building to link the two sides of the building.
EATING Is FUN, EATING Is SERIOUS. (Middle) The food
preparation area of the new dining hall connects with the
actual  hall. The eating area will bave two separate rooms
with a dining area outside the building. Combined seating is
about 350.

EvERYB0DY’s WORKIN’ FOR THE WEEKEND. (Bottom) Lights.

from Tbe Ring-tum Pbi and Tbe Calyx offices shine into
the main student activities room, which will soon be
filled with cubicles for activities such as SJC and IFC.

and student organizations’ spaces,”
said Atkins.

SEE COMMONS, PAGE 2

Board questions calendar

BY CHRIS LAUDERMAN
STAFF WRITER

The Board of Trustees at its May meeting released a
statement regarding the undergraduate academic calen-
dar. James D. Farrar, Jr., Secretary of the University and
Assistant to the President, commented on the Board’s
statement, “This is less a conversation about Spring Term
as it is about designing the best possible academic expe-
rience for Washington and Lee students. Calendars are
how the experience is packaged. The Board is interested
in helping the Administration implement the best possible
calendar.”

The President and Administration reported to the
Board the history of the long term discussions about the
calendar, demands on academic resources, and outlined
the alternatives currently being discussed. The Board
has been informed of the faculty and student liaisons to
which students can give (feedback on the calendar.

Earlier last week, President Burish spoke with the fac-
ulty on where this issue is going. The groups will con-
tinue to collect data throughout the summer and into early
fall. The Board of Trustees wants all the fully articulated
options and the best estimate of what each option would
cost by the Fall Board meeting on October 24 and 25, 2003.

When asked which groups would have the most in-
ﬂuence on the decision, Farrar replied, “All parties need
to agree. The components of this complex issue are very
much interrelated: faculty teaching loads, general educa-
tion requirements, and the availability of resources. It is
the Board’s responsibility to evaluate resources, the fac-
ulty decides general education and major requirements,
and the Administration’s responsibility is the calendar.”
He also said that the student’s role would be providing
feedback to the liaisons. Students are encouraged to pro-
vide feedback as to how the various calendar options
might affect them. For example, Sociology/Anthropology

SEE BOARD, PAGE 2

 

 

V » “


NEW
New Habitat store in BV seeks supplies 

MONDAY, MAY 26, 2&3:

MONDAY, MAY26.
Java—Palociza in HE HI‘: glad, 7:30-10:30. G-iriadian
 play .  L »\
"TcpGi.r1s"— ’lZtHai1eSaCi.es. w ritjzéiiq/(hryls,.§1'11rd'iiJl
 LLLoyt:'i'..Ke]_le:i:
']l'x=.atre, Lenfest Oaiteir, 82(1) p.m. -'2 
WEDNESDAY, MAY 28.  ‘rr  
.A1umi Sa1iorI\tighi: at:La'bertyHa1l Ruirs. 
A 1] Author G'Ii:is Canito, author of ”Hur1tirg 

    

BY KATIE ]. HOWELL
EDITOR IN Cl-llEl’

A risivB.1ildjrgSLJp_olyPesale storeinagiavisiais

qaeriing sotnarxiseelcirig WashJ'n_;itcI1arr1Lee studaii;
si.gr3rttlirugr1dr1'iatia'1of11rriee3ec'lit:urearr1ap—
piiarrzs.
’]1'EStQrevin'JlkB1;1}1te:1at347 WeetTa'ithSt;a1i
wiJ_'LbeoAried1cyHabitat for}-lnariiq/.’lhest<:x:eis@rai
toiardstnre  t aridwtill sell itens suchas
pajritmiflocirirgsigaiia.

~mail news briefs to

 

W&L names Philip NOIW00d as Flector-e/act

Wednesday May 28, 6-9 p.m.

Drink specials on
Margaritas and Beer

‘.1;  9. °.».P.«' ,9. .‘ L9. 3 9-.=».° '

 

 

 0 0’ 0 (“Q 0

::’O‘§!Q’O’OO_OO,OQOOOCOOOOOOOOOOOOOO00000OOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOQVQOO

or the Stonewall
resale s'rore  

s arelocated in dormi
‘ University Center,

   
   

     
   
  

 
 

 

 

3

Habitat forH1rariityisaoui1nJnity service organi-
:x:at;i.c1'1t1'rat:3_r3e1:ia]j2einh1iJriliII_;1'nIs fm 
'I1'eBJildirgS.;plyResa1estoreisrDt:t1Ecrﬂ.yH3k3i—
tzatszrxeintheara. A ragﬂarl-H:itatl:r%1estoreis1o—
catedat:32lN. Maini.  '1heLeciIgtmstore
frunsuﬂmtsastheyleavefor
thesuimer.
”Iwasstnd<adto1':iIrilo1tthatHi1it2athJiltei:_:l'1t
1'r1.se£vvit1'1nrn=.y1":runtheLeciIgt<1'1resale store/’Beth
Ctneasy, Habitat forﬁnariitypxojectaucrdiratorfcrtte

COMMONS, FROM PAGE1
A1sorraid1igtl'ieir1x:reintha(huIu'svvi_1lbethe

lleaiofstixhitssmff. Tl'eira1iteJ'n:]i19saret:q1:icr1

areaaﬁsaieralofliioas. Binrlhtz, C‘arolCaulJ<iIsar1i

wi1J_iarss;hoo1suxaerxi:czmi1tirgGrz1psaid.".iost
thiriktvunarlynuretleyaanbiilddne theyqnenthe
secrrdstore.”
Vo]1rn:eersattteLeidrgtmstoresaidt1'estr:ii:ec'ar1
pJllin$2OO—5OOjnqeday.
S:uia'itsinteres‘n:aiind:r1atirgtoa'Ieoft:l'estores
a"n.11dcmta:t Akbyvan Veraacirseetfrraigiblicsavioe
arnrnaratatttehsttonofttiispag-eforﬁmiEriI1for—
rratirn.
’ClliSirI,l_Ira’tK)ﬁtiEi(hQ1:toti'eS1ﬂa'tsTi'EtI-Hliiziti
cH1i.edma11'c1'stD1'e1pc11l:agJ0dca1se,”C‘re2£_{aio'l.

Commons preparation underway

w.-ilasF‘iIl1nS.bc:'L®rrUJies. Ir1a&litim. tteroaritas
power13ointted'rDlcgyforledb1resardGar1heusaias
ar1ovafj_1lroonforpad<aiaiﬁiaaﬁatLeeGiapel.
‘Ihebiolcx_:ydeparma'1taJreadyreservedtherocrr1
sotil'atitcar1cmbinatx«osecticrsofBio1ogy1Jlinto

cerns.

Sincerely,
The 12-12-6 Committee

Ansel Sanders, Chairman
Kelly Jo Larsen
Helen Hughes
Thomas Worthy
Charlotte Marie DuPre
Vishal Sapra
4 Carlos Spaht
ii,,Lawso’i:i~;_,Qrumbine

     

ated and charged by the Executive Committee of the
Student Body, the faculty and the administration to
develop a thorough report of the advantages and
disadvantages of the current 12-12-6 calendar. We
would like to remind everyone that the issue is still
unresolved, and a decision deadline has not been set.
Please remember that this is an issue that affects
every member of our community, and everyone’s in-
put and opinion is important to us. Please contact
one of us with your questions, comments and con-

Joanna Perini 
Austin Kim
Kristin Crawford
Hans Carlson
Brian Castleberry

Jonathan WOFthan’§§;% A 

Kyle Meehan

ll.

4,3Qp_m_  Avei:yGD1stcnwi_i_1also cre1aI§lec:turec1a$ofipto15Opeq_:ﬂe. 1‘
ﬁ,‘,_r‘:-ATHURSDMGMAYZ9. Washjrgtmardhaemi .ty, Bard f Tmstag bepr<:r»/Jdradvirit1'1ofﬁ1cesmtheOrmrrIs. I 
Ir Jd,1,sm.Iheat[e,LEnf€StCa1_ kﬁselaifﬁgﬂjpw-NmUﬂofGE:lOtteI;.C., tobe Psforsuxim1:a1'NH11e'n$,vknletIeh1ﬂdirgvdJ1 wiJl1:eneq/qH:isa\iaJJai;31efoirt:1'Ia1r_ar:t:Lvit1es. Iritha
I te_~,g;q)p_m_  d_Emi‘E[Sit:Y,SrE¢}€CtQr,effeCﬁ‘Bm]atBOxCterZIB beq:a1a1lthat1Ire,foodviz1JlrDtbesa:\ied24—i'rurs. '11'E  , ttereisasrallhardpractioerouriaxaible

FR1DAY,MAY30. """ ‘‘ I_bwJ-_—L1SxDeedJ.EIankSKfaCEJr a  Ha! foodsa:\Iioeswill,1'mever,prUvirhed:a'ﬂed}n.1rsar1i bjcardaoce$Q'1lysothateqJ1pna1tcai'1bestore:i. ‘
‘.5  cjasses ad, 1 . Vvmhas EU/D  1.nthe'  ali/taysbeava.'LLable. Aﬂitimally, t.‘raeisa"pote'itialreconiirgstLn"iio”arda‘
 SATURDAY,MAY31_ am ,ﬂ_EFeCtOrSenEsaSi . Oftjeuﬂ .ty,SpCSl  feature darkrocxnfeatlrrzirg 
 Lkﬁergraciuateaarisbegin. OfT  , bakery, ckﬂi, salaikaradtntfaﬁcpdas. phi/C1a$. 'IteIrpeistl3attlech1ﬂ<rooi1vnllaieda_yhe

 MoNDAY,]UNE2. Njmood ﬂepresldaltardqqiefﬁallti Oﬁﬁ AtJcirssgIal1stiHtt}edi:mI_:;ha]lbeaIeoftbe,"besi:  ‘

 A o£FaisnErit::prisa:,qeofae1a:gesta:merVz[:ia1r:i d‘”ee°rfGrI$ta”atsir‘I.".dIgt°”"}ES‘id Rmwul . pi’”.Ite‘esmgd'ﬂg1ela‘31t.lSﬂEtmﬁ‘Of&B'k
Degree agplicatims foriﬁeoatber 2003 graduaticn estate develqlrmtafdjm/esmaqtnanagmglt fimsm kenabtocxtiermderiavciinugtaﬂadﬁerevdllkzem ka11ld3Ig1suriErgruniforasthet.1creaso's. ”.Ehelcad—
d2eatLr1iversity13H_:;istrar’sOEEioe, U'ii\zersityGenter. ﬂeﬁbstemcnagt of themitai States ]ﬂatajJ.nGHr_ "stern—]_‘1n$.” ’1hedi.nJ.rgha]_1 ischnrataimthcialt 1Igd::d<, eIErwLyge'ie:ratorsarr1].otsofstorageL=,:eioe_
TUEsDAY,]UNE3. 1CﬂENC_ Aftasjxywrsofpri‘/ate1a'NpraCtiCe Njmlﬂ bi1.ietilea'I:1AtkiIs1n_o$tl'ratf<13:1ser\rioeviiillreaha, isalltnsdirﬁergrurd. 'Itel<:adiIgd:d<isf_iwet1'nm‘
 , Jd'rsI1 ’Iheati:e,La'ifestOa1ter, 8:OOp.m. estate develqmglt and l.nvesmHlt_ * ]har}d1tLa'1tot:l'ed1n1IIg.ta1lﬂHevinJlbea<1afécpa1 forsirnilarpirpoas. ;
WEDNEsDAY,]UNE4. A l969WaS,m.ngtmardDeegIadJate Namoodhas forlamrtrurs. ’Il'ecafé1s]oaatairiearthagarerocm Ii"ieCdmu'iscanbeaccessedb;/a.waJlJ<way
 te ,EIQtIaJ1, 1o;ooa_m_ bea1aHHT@OfW&L,SB:ardOfTnBt€e;SSjmeFEbru_ arﬂ”tni'eer1tabaimlait”oai1:erar1:1willoffavan'o.s Wast.nrgtrr1Stratiate><ta'rfts@ttbehi3ld1rg,tfneris/vi
THURsDAY,]UNE5. an/1997' FzUnOCtCbEr2OOOmtﬂEEbnJaIy2OO3 mmmd nmlqstids. B::t1'1d1n1rgareeswiJlheawaJ_'1ab1etost:u— arphithaater,  

 m t, Fra'1tLawn., lO:OOa.m. d,EjIait1,Eh1aId,SGjpita1PmjeCtSChmﬁtteea1,d J-]]_ <i3'1tSO'1tiEH€a1P1H1.a'Iit0t1E1I1bliC. .  913%/f‘=1I€9SV
}3I~ai1phi@;,q1u_e;11With24/7eVg1ts, fully .33 1 . . Ofa 1 of . . . Rrsb.I3a'itait:ata1rna'i1:,’d'ie(huru'soffe:sa\iai:1e1:yof fm aﬂp$Mya mt. j
 aﬂmﬂadm§ projects m W&L,:hiStm.C cpjcrs. A ”tr1ree'i1:ertaima1t:”roonoff'B:ssaau'rgfcr]0—12 To prcmote canpus unity, one last Corrmons;
L . t a'da13ig—s1a1telei/isimnzitiinbazzzhiilitjs. Naxttothis space is a great: ”liv1'ng man for the campus” 

‘ eXIl’|9 On cartptlsmc-rgt}SeEmje:tsaIe&EﬁVemNSQrCKity}wS$' xommjllheﬂregzrerounvzithpooltdaiesadaﬁuzslzniltzatale. Frenzh doors, a grand piano, sofas and a gas fire-—* “l
. . . . .' Pmthai: ' tt:actim' tl'em3v1e' ttea 'th lace. This wi'L1be a'l_1thetiIretothevh>l'
"" weekly ﬂemlﬂmwmﬁmgﬂaw; the will Ian/aum OfRa~d 189  fems;ts ItwiJl_1Sp1ay ﬁrst—rLn as £c)oInmunity area Open er

_ Ha1l,v~hid'i1'11,se3t}ejoin'ra1isndq:ari3iia'Ita*1iitsstate— ' '
Forecast of—tﬂ'1e~artcznierga'1Eted'rDlogy;there'I1ra1:imoffonier M “
re:reati;Ial$a:1earIi]od<er;ro:nsir1toariewﬁiuiascH1— I
mm M mt  we mm mwnmmmause Board looks to communi for calendar answers
diim; adtliecreaijmofrsuaﬁﬂajc ﬁeirﬁ.

T“eSdaY‘ E-"1 Shmersr 70/51 ihefczrmnirg achievanent fw m}1;sEl%d— BOARD FROM PAGE1 fituze. A mirsoiuummuldbe, for qiestim of grarriﬁatlnertirg the cur—‘ ,_
ersh:p' o theCr>pitalPzojectsChmiittee' be qaerr ’ exaip1ie,toin£onnuaec1assof2oo7 ra'ii;st1da'i1:bo:ilyi.r1i:ot1'ec1,rz:i:ait12~
W _3Etta€i T_StQm's’7O/53 jII2IthiSS~IHTEfOft1'1e58,00033paI€fOOt,fC1Ir-leVE*lJCi'n najorsnayloveS3i::1IgTeiInbE—:~ thatthr.§/vnﬂdlavears/vcBla'I3ar 12-6}%1’DCe«}B'1CQT‘eLpl'I1diS(1JS—‘

W-E3IOd1hiVEfSiCYC1IUTU'BiiAhid1latePrESj.<i*i1tE11IOd <:aLseofthedigorEtrImiics1rajors ti'm'rsa'1ii:rjyaraIite1ltl'Ecl&of sim.”

Tmrghf ISO1at@‘ T_StOrmS— 74/55 Ca1l€it1'EUTlVEfSitY'S fuulre "h“ilYIUfIIl-" bewuse of tie ]1'1I;ei:riaticmil Tenn 2008 that they muld have the new To voice your qairiicn to the

. 1\T0IVD0C1iSkf10Nf1aITD1’19V\7&L CrUSCeeSaSaIIiaS- Zho3:3,itisti'a'ri:e1IIsibilitytote1l  BcardofDi3:ectorsyoumist fOI1.UN,~
F‘ﬂChY_PartlyC1'O‘ﬁY’ 79/58 t€fﬁJl£IE5EI1t€lTfOfhiS5bilitYtOdiSti3lGITD1ﬁ’<hJi1diTg t1EstLda'itlia1'arssot}eB:ardw:L1l arIi33mtl'1rc1.x_:i1&1ec1&of2O1O. tbeproperd*iau'nof<::1mandkyo:r1—
isa - 85/58, p1aI”SiI1tO6aSilY1Iﬂ-1’ESt<13C1<111C1%>tS- PLIISUaT1tt0li\&L 1'avetl'ati.nfomat.irn. vha'1asl<edift:l'1ec].a$of2CX)6wC:.ﬂri tactirgqeofttefoiloidrgsuzéait
 ..YC‘JD~ﬁY: . BoaiIolof'Iruste$’1ylaiiis,1\brvi£x3d1'1asme1'1electesdto B/EirI_y<1Ii:ra1I:St1rh'1tsfeelthit begraﬁI'atl'ErediIitotl'euirxa'i1:12— liais:1's:;1\IBel$1Jrr3s:rs~’O4',-e9‘ép§l.or—
‘ ‘ H - S€fV€aS15iPU'1iV€CSitY’SF€CtOr\1’ICﬂ1'1iSl0—§/G3fb38lIC1 t1'1eysl'ioi.1ldhavebee1'1iIiforIIradvd'ier1 ”ltisiIrpoaaib1eat «jIgt1'e12—12-6,I<2ateI§tt-'O4.,~e<—
S‘IﬁiyL1X)1ataiT_StOmS82/56  ttEya'1tei:a:‘ltteIhi\ietsityt}a1:til'B tkiistjnetocbtazrdrievfatraozroa plor_in_:;t1'el4-l4,orLai.ira'reEatcn

Cala1iarviz1J1dbe1.n:hr<E:ateintl‘e  ’C5,a<p1Crirgt1'e13—13—4.
A
 An Open Letter to the Washington and Lee University
K Community: X
Don Te uila
» q We would like to announce the formation of the
I I ~ I - - F
Mariachi band night] 12-12-6 Committee, a committee composed of ﬁfteen
' students who share the common interest of retaining
\\ - - u -
MI Tlerra from Greensboro the current academic calendar. We have been cre- ,,

 

 

. MONDAYJMAY 26, 2003

U its

‘II-IF..lllN(.§-IUMl’l-ll
. STAFF EDITORIAL
W&L needs to pay attention to staff

Pay attention during the days preceding
Graduation, Mock Convention or any other
large production which W&L puts on and you
will see many hard-working university employ-
ees working to make your Washington and Lee
experience the best it can be. Now, think back
to your freshman dorm experience and the
thoughtful maintenance personnel who kept
your bathroom and hallway spick-and-span.
Next, consider all of the department secretar-
ies who will thoughtfully put together and dis-
tribute your exams come next weekend. What
do these individuals have in common? The fact
that the University mistreats them.

For example, as of our printing, the Univer-
sity has no plans to hire additional custodial staff
to maintain the pristine condition that the Com-

V‘ mons will show off during its ritzy grand open-

ing. It is our understanding that the already over-
worked dorm staff will be forced to clean the
behemoth John W. Elrod Memorial Commons.

A A force of dedicated professionals whom

students know, and in some cases, admire, main-
tains our security. Does the University acknowl-
edge their important contribution with the same

A enthusiasm as it does faculty members?

Another important point is that President
Burish’s “open door policy” refers to faculty
and students, but not to staff members, whose

4 concerns are just as important. Though we are

certain that President Burish will happily wel-
come any member of the Washington and Lee
community, the absence of the word “staff”
from his policy is evidence of a larger, seem-
ingly subconscious ignorance.

The “Campaign for the Rising Generation”

I fimds building projects, faculty salary increases

and scholarships. All are important. We wonder
how much of the $225 million will be dedicated
to the hard working staff of Washington and Lee?

.4 After all, without their efforts, our experience

would be much less clean, organized and safe.
Washington and Lee’s excellent staff does
their fine work in the background (more evi-
dence, in fact, of their superior quality). How-
ever, everyone, faculty, students and adminis-
, tration, must be careful not to take the staff for
» granted. As W&L'seeks to reinvent itself in so
many ways, let’s also focus on the backbone
of the University.

Whither Washington and Lee?

Campus certainly won’tbe the same
when we return in the Fall. The physical
changes (and a long-awaited pause in
construction) are only the beginning. As
an aside, the soon-to-graduate class of
2003 who came to one ofAmerica’s most
beautiful campuses and suffered through
four years of endless vista-marring reno-
vations and construction deserve our
sympathy.

Without question, the addition of the
University Commons will be the biggest
change in campus life. Whether or not
the on-campus bar comes to fruition, the
administration anticipates that the Com-
mons will firndamentally alter the campus
culture and foster non-Greek social ac-
tivities. Moreover, it will create a central
space for all extracunicular activities to
meet and provide office space for many
campus organizations. Ideally, students
will embrace the opportunities provided
the Commons and make the $30 million
expenditureworthwhile.

However, habits change slowly on
our tradition-steeped campus and it’s
doubtﬁ1lthattheCornmonswil1havemuch
of an effect on the classes of 2004 or 2005.
Other questions remain, as well. Who is
going to clean the Commons? Was it re-
ally necessary to install a staircase whose
steps cost a rumored $700 each? Do we
really want to have a Biology class with
three-digits worth of students? Does the
Commons really merit a $100,000 grand
opening? \V1ll anyone actually host a

jet; BROOKS / THE RING-T1'M PHI

UNCOMMON. Will the University Commons remake W&L student culture?

party in the loading dock?

Joining the Commons in the “uncer-
tainty” category, is the academic calen-
dar. The possible abolition of Spring Term
has been discussed ad nauseum both in
this paper and else-

   

and deeply felt In the Fall, Washington
and Lee will be welcoming a new Provost,
former Physics professor H. Thomas Will-
iams, an as-yet-unnamed Dean of Students
and replacements for the twelve retiring

faculty The University

where, but the issue re- RIGHT OF THE AISLE is losing hundreds of
mains undecided and yearsofexperiencewith
will weigh onthe minds  KIRWAN ‘04 these myriad retire-
of students during the merits.

summer. The primary fear is that returning
Generals will be conﬁronted with sad news
at matriculation. It is essential that the ad-
ministration keep the student body in-
formed and involved with the calendar
change process during the summer break

While the physical changes will be
the most noticeable, the changes not so

So much of the University’s social
fabric is dependent on the vote of the
faculty that the quick changeover in fac-
ulty could lead to a quick change in many
of the traditions we cherish. New fac-
ulty, much like new presidents, join the
Washington and Lee community with
preconceived notions of what a univer-

As the voices of the neophytes be-
come louder and more inﬂuential versus
the opinion of faculty members who have
been imbued with the traditions of the
school, our cherished practices and
foibles might be tossed out Although fac-
ulty come and go with regularity, Wash-
ington and Lee’s is aging quickly and an
effort must be made to inculcate incom-
ing faculty with the traditions of the Uni-
versity so that our heritage does not get
passed up as faculty members retire.

Next year, the University will be con-
fronted with many changes, both physical
updates and more fundamental personnel
changes. Students need to do their part to
preserve W&L’s institutional memory by
agitating for the preservation of the Uni-

te of the Week

“Ohmy goodness!”

~Lauia Byrne, upon discoveringthat
her boyfriendhad crashed hercar

A Founder J. Sam Slicer, 1898L

Editor in chief Katie J. Howell
Associate Editor Jeb G Brooks
2nd Associate Editor Kyle Wass
Opinions Editor Brett TI Kirwan

’ Asst. Opinions Editor CaleyAnderson

Arts & Life Editor Catherine C. Guy
Asst. Arts & Life Editor Megan Morgan
Sports Editor Erin E. Julius
Asst. Sports Editor Donny Banks
Photographers Marisa Meyer

Business Manager Thomas Worthy
Circulation Director Henry Grimball

.( Advertising Assistant McQueen Calvert

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee Univer-

‘ . sity, Lexington, Virginia. The Washington and Lee Publi-

cations Board elects the Editor in chief, but The Ring-tum
— Phi is otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible submis-
sions and letters. All submissions must be e-mailed to
phi@wlu.edu or in the University Center mailbox by 5
p.m. Friday to appear in the following week’s edition. The
Ring-tum Phi reserves the right to editsubmissions for con-
tent and length. Letters and columns do not necessarily re-
ﬂect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial Board. Ad-
vertising does not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum Phi
or its staff This newspaper observes current court deﬁni-
tions of libel and obscenity.

, The Ring-tum P/11‘
Mailing Address: University Center

T Washington and Lee University

Lexington, Virginia 24450
Street Address: 31 Washington Street
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060

‘V Fax: (540) 462-4059

Email: phi@wlu.edu
http://phi. Wlu. edu

easilynoticedwillbethemostlong-lasting sity should be.‘

versityaswelcriowitaridwishittoremain.

Katie ‘howells’ goodbye

During my last traditional Sunday night Chinese dinner
withtlie Phi staff, my fortune cookie read, “Youare almostthere.”
What could be a more appropriate (or creepy) fortune to receive
during my last night as editor in chief of The Ring-tum Phi?

Threeyears onthe Phistaffhastaughtmemorethanany
journalism or geology class could attempt The late Sunday nights
(and early Monday mornings), “Phi culture”
and opportunities to get involved and learn as
much as possible about Washington and Lee
to convey information to the community are
invaluable experiences that I would never ex-
change, even for eight hours of sleep on a Sunday night

All over campus, I hear people gripe and complain each
week about the lack of decent publications on campus. Grammar
and fact emors (which are inexcusable), misspellings and space
ﬁllers are called out each week, bashed and laughed at I’ve heard
these comments each week for three years as I walk thorough the
Co-op, dining hall, sorority house, J-school and science center.
Each week, I’ve heard fellow students, professors and adrninistra-
tors alike criticizingthe hoursandhours ofhard work andtirne my
staff and I have put in to convey the bits and pieces of information
we struggle to collect and present while managing an academic
life onthe side. Sometimes, we even ﬁndtime for a social life.

But I’m not really bitter. Like I said before, I would not
trade in any part of my Phi experience. Instead, I choose
this opportunity to praise and evaluate my publication
and staffs. So many wonderful things have happened to
this publication and University during my time here. They
too, are worth mentioning alongside the speling errors.

First, many of you may have noticed a slight change in the

  

Letters to the Editor

EDITRIX IN CIIIEF

appearance of the Phi over the past few years. Anyone who
read “Cat’s Comer” or Mike Crittendon’s contributions three
years ago was certain to notice the heavy black lines, gray boxes
and heinous lack of picas per page. Today, however, white space
and thin, lighter lines grace each page, maldng them easier for
your eyes to see and read, whether you notice it or not.

Huge issues have come into play over
the past few years: the tragic loss of two stu-
dents in a car accident followed by a year-long

......... _.l§iI1El;..HQllELL,i(li.,.. struggle to establish a school-wide alcohol

policy, the search for a new University presi-
dent and establishment of a University Commons suitable and
inviting for all in the community are justthree issues the Phi staff
has tackled during my time here, and in my opinion, tackled well.

Despite Brett Kirwan’s uncanny ability to anger every group
on campus ﬁ'om minorities to women to down-home good-old
boys, no one can doubt his ability to write well and encourage
campus conversation about issues concerning our generation. I
canthinkofno grwterArts&Life editorthanKate Guy. Who
brought the classy side of W&L arts and events to campus-wide
notice through reviews, articles andpicture stories? Kateguywins.
Jeb! Brooks is an amazing photographer and the “nicest guy on
campus.”AJeb! picture is deﬁnitely worth athousand words.
Thank you, Ring-tum Phi and Washington and Lee
for a wonderful experience. I am there—~at the end, and I
leave with complete faith in the new staff. Criticize them,
show them their errors and give them a little praise every
once in a while. They do a greatjob.
(And by the way, we’ve been doing a quote of the

week for longer than I’ve been alive.)

PAGE 3

Nick dishes
advice, one last time

Rather than writing some obnoxious, all-encom-
passing, “leftist is bestest” political opus for my fi-
nal piece in The Ring-tum Phi (insert sad sigh here),
I am going to pass along some advice, dare I say
wisdom, and observations from my four years at col-
lege. They are random, without order, and meant only
to be taken for what they’re worth.

Freshmen are not aware that they know noth-
ing. Seniors are aware that there is so much they
do not yet know. The idea of life after college never
seems real at any point during the college experi-
ence. Even two weeks before graduation. Gradua-
tion comes so much faster than you could ever
realize.

College is not ‘LEW-OF CENTER
meant to be about ‘
what you study. The NICK RAMSEY 

greatest learning ex-

periences come from your friends. Your friends are
the greatest people on the face of the planet. They
will listen to you when you’re depressed or con-
fused. The will make you laugh, laugh at you, and
keep you in line.

It is a wonderful thing to have close friends that
are completely different from you. Nothing is funnier
than making jokes about friends from other countries.
Just ask my elephant-riding, Pakistani frat brothers.

Every man should have a really close gay
friend. Aside from providing a different prospec-
tive on things, they will tell you when you’re dress-
ing like crap.

During college you will either become even
closer or even more distant with your family. I was
fortunate enough for the first to occur. It is also this
time that you will realize just how much your family
loves you. Who else would ﬁnance four years of
carefree living?

Everyone should have a rainy weekend alone in
Paris. Everyone should go to Italy with their wildest
friends. It’s even better when the University foots
the bill. London will always be the coolest city, ever.
Fake British accents are always funny. Especially
when they annoy someone else in the room who
can’t do one.

Music and driving are the two most therapeutic
things in the world. Put the two of them together
and who needs a psychologist? Psychology works.
Nicotine is the devil. Tequila will have you kissing
your best friend’s girlfriend and not remembering it
the next day. Sorry about that, John.

Radiohead will always be around to reinvent
Rock and Roll. The White Stripes are here to remind
us where it came from. Coldplay is the best “sad
bastard” music in the world. It will always be the
case that far too few people know of the wonder that
is Self. Rufus Wainwright has the best voice of any
living singer. No one will ever be better than The
Beatles . . . ever.

The best movies come from pairs of brothers.
To prove this I give you the Coen and Wachowski
brothers. Star Trek is much cooler than Star Wars.
Most of the movies Stephen Spielberg makes these
days are really horrible. .

Spiderman is the greatest superhero ever. Su-
perman is too damn powerful. It’s just lame. Batman
is too disturbed. There are too many X-Men. The
rest don’t merit mentioning.

The greatest book no one has ever read is
“Einstein’s Dreams.” You are a dork for reading the
Harry Potter books. I am also that dork. One should
only read J .R.R. Tolkien if it is raining or past sun-
down. Grisham and King are overrated. Every Tom
Clancy book should be 40% shorter.

I don’t know which is worse. Not being able to
love a wonderful person who loves you or not being
loved by a wonderful person who you love. To that
first person, I still mean it when I said, “I’d be the
luckiest man alive if that did it for me.” To that sec-
ond person, may you find what you’re looking for.
Trust your heart. Even if it is wrong, you’ll under-
stand why someday.

Jesus is the greatest man who ever lived. The
meaning to his words gets lost far too oﬁen in dogma.
Karma is very real.

Knowing when to shut-up is an admirable trait.
Love to my friends leaving with me and those I leave
behind. Thanks for reading.

Spring Term essential

Dear Editor,

Here, here to Professor Hodges in his
letter to the editor defending Spring Term
(“Hodges defends Spring Term,” March
12). We were glad to see a faculty member
stepping up to publicly air his disapproval
of the calendar choices offered. As par-
ents of a freshman we are extremely disap-
pointed with the possibility of Spring
Terrn’s demise. One of the reasons we en-
couraged our son to attend W&L was to
experience this unique opportunity. After
many college visits, W&L’s uniqueness in
this offering separated itself from Vanderbilt
and Davidson and every other institution
that he seriously considered. We would
hate to see that unique offering disappear
and leave us with disappointment that this
opportunity will not be realized.

As for allowing more time for faculty
research, we were under the distinct im-
pression when we visited W&L on our col-

lege visit that the faculty’s number one pri-
ority was teaching students, not research.
That was another reason we encouraged
our son to attend. We don’t want to regret
sending our son and our money to W&L.
Sincerely, '

Anne and David Patterson

W&L not committed to faculty

Dear Editor,

Several years ago I wrote a letter to
the editor attacking Spring Term as an ef-
fort to prepare the ground for the upcom-
ing calendar debate— which turned out to
be only the first of who knows how many
such exercises. At the time I thought it best
to make my point in a deliberately light and
comic style, but the students didn’t seem
to want to get the joke—- not a joking mat-
ter, I suppose, mockery at W&L being de-
served for minorities— so this time I will
answer the letter of last week in as bland
and matter-of-fact a manner as possible. I

still hold to my essential point of the former
letter, namely, that for all the value of Spring
Term—— and I admit it permits many inter-
esting and valuable courses, many memo-
rable and once-in-a-lifetime experiences-
the fundamental claim that a typical Spring
Term course should be considered the
equivalent in terms of credit as typical Fall
or Winter course is a fraud.

It seems to me that Spring Term has
always really functioned as W&L’s way of
getting for cheap and by sleight-of—hand the
kind of course variety that other less honor-
able institutions (oops there goes my lack
of irony) get the hard way-~ by employing
a proportionally larger number of liberal arts
faculty— and that Spring Term has numer-
ous hidden costs that ultimately make it a
thing to be done away with. That is what I
believe—that is my principled position—
though it’s complicated by my full under-
standing that some others honestly do not
believe as I do, and that for these there is a
principled position in support of Spring Term.

Nonetheless the whole matter is fur-
ther complicated by my self-interest, which
this time around makes 12-12-6 darn ap-
pealing to me and to many other critics of
Spring Term. For the students should un-
derstand that as things stand now the pro-
posal to keep Spring term with a faculty
load of 6 coursesrepresents a real reduc-
tion of my teaching load—— formerly 7
courses—-. whereas the proposal for a two
14-week semester system with a 6 course
load actually means a return to the same
amount of teaching as we had under the
old 7 courses over 12- 12-6. I hope you all
see—— along with class size, much the most
reliable measure of load is contact hours,
that is, hours in the classroom along with
the prepping for that time. Now, the old
model of 7 courses times 12 weeks times 3
hours/week comes out to exactly the same
amount of teaching as the proposed 6
courses times 14 weeks times 3 hours/week.

SEE LETTERS, PAGE 4

 

LETTERS, FROM PAGE 3

Therefore the only way I and other faculty

members get a reduction is if the college

goestothe 6 courses overtlre 12-12-6 cal-

endar. Thus my dilernrna—— my principles
say go for the 14 week model; my self-

interest says please give me a reduction.

It’s a very cruel thing to do a person——
evenifheorshe isnotboundbyacode of
honor— and I will state that I don’t appre-

ciate the administration and trustees tying
me into such knots. Fortunately, I don’t
thinkI’llactuallybeforcedto make sucha
Solomonic decision— the powers that be
are goingto make the decision for me. The
realproblemisthatlexpecttheywillchoose
the6over l4—14—andthendeclarethey’ve
given all us professors a reduction. You
know,6inchesislessthan7centimeters——
atleastthatseemstobetheirview.AndI’m
not being sarcastic.

And why should I or any other pro-
fessors get a reduction? Let me try to ex-
plain When I was interviewed for the job
at W&L, the then Dean Elrod, knowing
ﬁommyrwimethatIwasanAmherstCol—
lege graduate, said point blank that W&L
was not going to be a “research college”
like Amherst. What he meant was that
places like Amherst had at the time (and
still do) teaching loads of 4 courses over
two 14-week semesters—andthereforere-
quiredmuchmore scholarly work frorntheir
professors than W&L with its stronger em-
phasis on evaluating faculty in terms of
teaching. (Note the precision here:
Amherst values teaching undergraduates
as much as W&L—— it’s just that Amherst
hires more faculty per students to do that
teaching and thus expects more scholar-
ship ﬁom its professors. W&L squeezes
more teaching out of proportionally fewer
faculty, and lets us off when it comes to
scholarship.) Still W&L’s model was at the
time a ﬁne and largely competitive one;
Amherst was and remains one of very few
liberal arts colleges pursuing such a model;
and W&L’s offer was certainly one of the
bestarnong elite small colleges. But make
no mistake about it——I would have taken a
job at an Amherst over a W&L without
blinkingan eye. Many students might have
good reasons for preferring W&L—- stu-
dents have no direct interest in faculty be-
ing active scholars. But few faculty can be
expected to make the same choice— our
interests lie in being able to teach and do
scholarship. The big problem for W&L is
thatoverthepasttenyears since I’ve been
here many of the teaching colleges it di-
rectly competes with have reduced their
teaching loadsr— and where will W&L be
if it dom not follow suit? In short, Amherst
has long been a much better job for a pro-
spective faculty member—— for any self-
respecting professor who wants both to
have the chance of teaching excellent stu-
dents in small classes (provided by both
Amherst and W&L), and also wants the
chance to vigorously pursue his or her
scholarly interests (provided much more
generously byArnherstthanW&L). Thus,
in years past, W&L could not really com-
pete with places like Amherst for profes-
sors— but here’s the bad news—- now it
looks like it won’t even be competing with
Davidson, with Colby, with Wake Forest,

with Kenyon
Now just recall the crucial facts of
class size and contact hours. These

schools and many others are just as good
as W&L on class size (and their students
are great too), but they have all recently
moved from six to ﬁve course loads over
14-14 week terms— a reduction of 1/6;
W&L tried to keep up by moving from 7 to
6 course loads over 12-12-6—areduction
of 1/7 (falling a bit behind, but not bad);
now it looks like it will move to 6 courses
over 14—14—— ataking back ofthe 1/7 re-
duction and resulting in a situation inwhich
ajobatW&L isclearly less appealingthan
one at Davidson, Colby, or Kenyon. You
see—- we’ve never really competed with
anArnherst for faculty, but now we won’t
even be competing with schools that we
like to think of as equals or even inferiors.
Professor Hodges’s weighing in the bal-
ance of teaching vs. scholarship and his
defense ofW&L’s former solution misses
the point— the proper balance is theoreti-
cal—- a game for debating clubs, cocktail
parties, and trustee meetings; the real fact
of the matter gets decided by how our com-
petitors behave. What’s the job offer?
When candidates scrutinize the factsthey’ll
see that W&L’s students are excellent like
those of comparable schools ; that its class
sizes are equivalent; that its pay is com-
petitive; butthat it asks for more time in the
class room— and thus limitstheir abilityto
succeed in scholarship. We used to be
pretty much the sanre as lots of other elite
srnallcolleges,butnowitlooks likewe’llbe
clearly behind them in this key criterion of
faculty recn1itment— and it is akey, let me
tell you. In short, Davidson or Colby and
schools like them will now be setting the
standard for the proper balance of teach-
ing and scholarship in elite teaching col-
leges—- just as Amherst does for elite re-
search colleges—— but W&L will fall be
hind both sets into a category of its own
And why is this happening? W&L,
we’re told, has done so much building (in-
cluding its own version of the Chunnel
that makes the percentage of its GNP that
France put into the thing look, well,
miniscule) that, despite its wealth, it can-
not alford to keep up with its former rivals.
But there is no end in sight to the build-
irrg— so I ﬁnd myselfunable to credit the
claims of how we’re so overburdened by
overbuilding. Furthermore W&L, both in
absolute tenns and in endowment per stu-
dent, is much much wealthierthan many of
its rivals who are honoring their 1/6 reduc-
tion, even as W&L contemplates rescind-
ing its 1/7 reduction. I keep mentioning
Colby because I’m ﬁom Maine— where
Colby’s located. I grew up having a high
opinion of that college, and when W&L
showed interest in me— never having
heard of this place—- I carefully read 
about it, but also closely compared it to
places I knew. It was less wealthy and lower
ranked than Bowdoin or Amherst, but
higher ranked and wealthier than Colby-
to me that made it a very ﬁne institution
indeed, as it most certainly is. Now whenl
was checking the facts in 1993, Colby was
rated as having an endowment of about 60
million, W&L an endowment of about 1 10
million. Last year’s ﬁgures showed Colby
corninginatabout240millionar1dW&Lat
740 million. Thus over the past ten years
Colby increased its endowment by about
4X, whereas W&L, starting out ahead al-
ready, increased its endowment by over
6X. Still Colby is keeping up with its com-
petitors by reducing the teaching load, and

  
 

   

 

W&L plans to abandon its reduction.
What’s going on?

Thefact,ofcourse, isthatW&Lhasa
differentsetofprioritiesﬁommany ofits
rivalliberalartscolleges—ithasasrnallbut
very generously ﬁrnded law school and a
whole host of very expensive pre-profes-
sional programs that make it quite distinc-
tive,ar1dthen,atthetailer1dofthelist, ithm
an expensive liberal arts program. Unfortu-
nately, the cost of being different is that
W&Lwillnowno longertrytckeepup
even with much poorer liberal arts col-
leges— go check out Kenyon’s endow-
ment— in its core mission, but its lowest
priority.Isthisagoodstrategy?Wecanall
judge forourselvesThesimplepointI would
liketostressinanswerto lastweek’sletteris
that the teaching vs. scholarship balance is
atheoretical side issue—-thereal question
isthepracticalrealityofthewaythisinstitu
tionvalues itscoreproject ofbeingaliberal
artscollege inrelationto itscomrnitmentto
those features that make it distinctive. We
now ﬁnd ourselves in the odd position of
beingfarricherthanmanyofourrival liberal
arts colleges— the schools we’re ranked
against and compete directly with— but of
fallingshortoftheminthesupportofliberal
arts because of our insistence upon being
very generous with what makes us differ-
ent. That’s W&L’s strategy: let’s hope it
works. Butintheend, whetheritworks or
not, itinevitably meanswe’llnowbegintc
lose out consistently whenever we com-
peteforfaculty~—thatis,forgoodfaculty
whowanttobeataliberalartscollegeto
begin with—- with places on the order of
Davidson, Colby,andKer1yorLMaybewe’ll
makeupforsuchmarginallossesbyour
successes in our areas ofdifference and
 it’sjustthatthose won’tbe in
the liberal arts.

Finally, I tl1inkI’ve done such a good
job atmaintainingamatter-of-facttonethat
I’d like to conclude by allowing myselfa
concluding burst of half-cornic ranting-
though don’t think I don’t still mean what
I say. Whatl ﬁnd ultimately damning about
this situation is that in the poor little state
ofMaine (population only about 1 million,
largest city 80,000) there is not only now
Colby, but Bates and Bowdoin too, that
have deeper commitments to the liberal arts
and are, in fact, better liberal arts colleges
than W&L. Little Maine has three better
colleges than a school widely considered
one of the two best in the entire South.
And remember those three schools are
pinned into a comer by awhole phalanx of
determinedrivalsontheorderofDartmouth
and Middlebury, Wellesley and Smith, and,
of course, the redoubtable Little Three of
Amherst,Williams,andWesleyan Maine’s
colleges struggle mightily for ﬁne students
and essential capital against this high or-
der of regional competition and yet still
manage to outdo W&L in their support of
the liberal arts. To me there’s atellingjudg-
ment on the South’s culture and civiliza-
tion, on its dedication to higher learning
andthe life ofthe mind, inthisdamning
fact.AndlforoneamremindedthatJoshua
Lawrence Chamberlain of the 20th Maine
was the true hero and victor of
Gettysburg—— and that he went on to be-
come President of Bowdoin College after
the Civil War, while the loser came here.
Sincerely,
EdwardAdams
Associate Professor of English

Don’t fear calendar change

Dear Editor,

We have observed the recent
discussion over the issue of calendar
change with growing frustration. Al-
most every editorial and letter that has
been published on the topic has re-
peated a few misguided fears within a
rhetorical stance that rejects the sug-
gestion of change. The vocal oppo-
nents of calendar change seem oblivi-
ous to the difﬁculties presented by
the current system, and they have
failed to thoughtfully consider the
relative strength of various propos-
als. We are writing in order to correct
mistakes already made and to point
towards more fruitful charmels for fu-
ture discussion.

We agree that the Spring Term
currently plays an important role in
the life of our university, and we also
are reluctant to change a good thing.
The Spring Term adds a richness to
the academic life of Washington and
Lee by promoting a broad and deep
curriculum. Furthermore, the Spring
Term is associated with a rich social
life and many of the most enjoyable
times of the academic year. Yet al-
though these advantages might be di-
minished by a shorter calendar, we be-
lieve that they may be substantially
incorporated within a new system, and
there are compelling reasons to con-
sider such a change.

The report of the Advisory Com-
mittee and subsequent discussions
have made clear that there is no easy
solution to this question. Given the
teaching load reduction decided in
2001, significant resources would
have to be devoted to the hiring of
new adjunct or permanent faculty in
order to maintain the level of teach-
ing under the current calendar. The
Board of Trustees has judged that
such a massive expenditure would be
very difﬁcult, and so the prospect of
change is inescapable. Although our
current calendar has many strengths,
it would be foolish to ignore the difﬁ-
cult facts of the matter. Even if the
calendar were to remain the same, the
circumstances require a creative so-
lution, and a narrow-minded attach-
ment to the status quo will only im-
pair the discussion.

Contrary to those who claim
that the purpose of calendar change
is to attenuate W&L’s distinctive-
ness, it is clear that this issue has
arisen from an explicit concern for
the core values of our university. In
order to maintain academic excel-
lence (through an ability to attract
the best faculty), a teaching load re-
duction was necessary, and this has
caused us to think of changing our
calendar. W&L exists for the pro-
motion of free thought and critical
inquiry; such a spirit of exploration
should make us open to the possi-
bility that change may be positive.
Furthermore, since all that is at is-
sue is a calendar which is less than
40 years old, nothing essential to
W&L is in danger. Those who speak
of tradition ought to have the whole
of W&L’s 254 year history in view,

for the necessity of change stems
from this very tradition.

President Burish has presented
this matter with admirable clarity, and
he has acted with considerable con-
cern for W&L’s fine history. He has
displayed a laudable desire to promote
dialogue about a decision which is
clearly not his own to make. He has
done much to solicit and respond re-
spectfully to student and alumni opin-
ions through both official and unofﬁ-
cial charmels, and he has thus won our
trust. His success at promoting dis-
cussion is perhaps most clearly indi-
cated by the unfair criticism he has re-
ceived, which was only made possible
by his frank openness. He has dis-
played wisdom and grace in his role as
a guide of public discussion, and for
all his fine efforts President Burish de-
serves our support and respect.

Sadly, most publicly expressed A

opinions on the matter far short of the
president’s excellent example. The
general incomprehension displayed
by students and alumni at the pros-
pect of change indicates a careless-
ness bordering on ill will, and their
absurd accusations have made con-
structive discussion nearly impos-
sible. Yet we have reason to believe
that the vocal opponents of change
are outnumbered by those who (in the
spirit of our fine tradition) value criti-
cal thinking and dialogue.

Those who fear change are the
true opponents of W&L’s ﬁne tradi-
tion, but there are many who desire to
continue the upward progress that has
characterized our history. Coeducation,
integration, and now the Spring Term
have been causes for division, but we
believe that (as with the ﬁrst two) the
conclusion of this issue will bring our
community together in a deeper un-
derstanding of our identity. We believe
that the beneﬁts of our beloved Spring
Term may be largely present in a re-
vised system, and so we are open to
the possibility of change. President
Burish has proven his ability to lead
W&L forward in a spirit which is true
to our past, and we believe that the
careful discussion he is leading will re-
sult in a solution which only strength-
ens our university.

The season of Spring will endure
every calendar, and the distinctive ex-
cellence of Washington and Lee is not
endangered by the prospect of change.
Our tradition has survived many such
changes already, and it will emerge
from this one even stronger. Through
understanding and dialogue, such dif-
ficult issues can become the occasion
for our community to grow together in
a deeper understanding of what makes
W&L special. For this purpose, care-
ﬁll introspection of our unquestioned
assumptions is a prerequisite to the
thoughtﬁrl discussion that will bring
us together. This is the way to be true
to tradition, and we are committed to
it.

Sincerely,

David Newheiser, ‘ 03
Julie Fitzer, ‘03

Wes Bell, ‘05

Tallie Jamison ‘05
Jon Cochran, ‘06

Massage Thetwy by

Kelly Harris, BA,

(540) 264-0063  

 

MONDAY, Mn 20, 2005 '

The Ring-tum Phi

Editorial Board
2003-2004

    

jeb Brooks
Editor in Chief

 

Kyle Wass
Associate Editor

 

Erin Julius
News

 

Caley Anderson
Opinions

 

Megan Morgan
Arts & Life

 

Thomas Worthy
Business Manager

 

 

Alvin-Dennis

102 W. Washington Street
463-5383

CONGRATULATIONS CLASS OF 2003

Lacoste Madras Pants & Shorts
Vineyard Vines ’I‘ies Bass
Woolrich Johnston & Murphy
Tuxedo Sales & Rentals

W&L Belts, Ties, Sandals, Hats, Dog Collars

Visa

Master Card

Student Charge

Since 1963 Alvin Carter, Owner

 

CATHERINE C. GUY
ARIS&LIFE EDITOR
FMAi1;GLY(@wLUE)U

MONDAY, MAY 26, 2003

Art is awesome

A painting says much about its creator. It portrays how
heperceives the world aswellashowhismindrecreatesreality
in the midst of his memory. Some people recreate the world
using lots of colors and cartoon ﬁgures, some recreate it as a
blur or ablink while others remember every single detail, down
to the exact shape of a model’s eyebrow. Everyone sees the
world differently, hence the diversity in artwork.

The thesis exhibit currently in DuPont Hall
exempliﬁes the colorful perspectives of the six senior art
majors: Betsy Ely, Connor Kirsch, Evan Orernland, Austin
Fisher, Liza Tucker and Erin Carter. Some of the works
recreate the function of the canvas frame, whereas some
others reﬂect more traditional subject matter, and some
represent other items and ideas altogether. But despite
the subject matter or the form of representation, each is
unique and each artist has developed his/her own style.

I highly recommend a walk through the exhibit. These
are the masterpieces of the senior majors. The six of them
have fulﬁlled their credits, taken more studio art classes
than most of us will ever take in our lives, and dedicated
more time to these works than I could ever imagine. These
are their best works of art, the best of the best in the art
department, and they are on display to the public.

The works say much about the individual artists’
perspectives and personalities, as well as their creativity and
imaginations. I found in every painting a sense of aestheticism
and meaning, particularly in some more than others. However,
I will not write my personal thoughts and reﬂections on that
subject inthis article,
with the hope that

you will visit the ON THE ARTS
exhibitforyourself. It i c
wmbemdjsplayumﬂ AURA LEIGH BIRDWELL 03

June 5. Each work is
unique and expressive of the artist’s own style and reﬂect the
talent and skill of the six artists.

I found it quite appropriate to write about the senior
art theses as my ﬁnal article. Yet at the same time, since
this is my final article, I’d like to share some last thoughts
of my own with you. I’ve always thought that the
profession of an art critic would be a fun job: viewing
exhibits and stating one’s thoughts, talking with the
artists, writing books and articles on what constitutes a
work of art, traveling to museums around the world,
attending the parties of the bourgeois, drinking lots of
wine. Art critics, or in fact any critic in general, have (or
would appear to have) an amazingly easy job and yet, at
the same time, they have in their possession a great and
undeniable power. With one clench of their teeth, they
can shatter an artist’s hopes and destroy the canvas
beneath the creation; but at the same time, with one
painted word of appraisal, an aspiring artist’s lifelong
dream to create a work of art becomes a reality.

For these past six months, I went to productions,
exhibits, concerts, and attended nearly every artistic event
held at this university. I watched and listened, reﬂected,
and wrote. Minus the bourgeois parties, I was an art critic
and I must admit, I loved it. I loved writing my thoughts
and reﬂections, talking with the artists about their artwork,
etc. But most of all, I loved attending the performances
and exhibits. I loved being a spectator. I have always
attended concerts, here and there, at Lenfest, but after
deciding to write this column, I made it a necessary point
to attend as many artistic events as possible.

For the spectator, art is a subjective experience. Art
affects different people in different ways, and what
constitutes a work of art as beautiful for some may not do
so for others. That is why I think the profession of art critic,
as one with the power to say what constitutes a work of art
or to decide what is beautiful, is an impossible job.

In deciding to write this column, my aim was not in
any way to deﬁne a work of art or claim to know what is
beautiﬁrl, or provide some theory of art. Rather, with this
colunm I hoped to present to the public, especially for

' those who were unable to attend an artistic event at

W&L, a glimpse into the beauty that I found in the works.
I wanted to create an appreciation for the artists,
especially the student artists, and highlight their artistic
talents. My writings were a reﬂection of my personal
thoughts of the arts and I shared those aspects that
struck me as wonderful. And indeed, I discovered so
much beauty and brilliance, especially from the student
artists, that my own subjective experience was nothing
short of amazement. So for those who made these
columns possible, I’d like to say thank you. Your works
of art created a meaning for me that, though I attempted
to place in words, I will never be able to explain.

As an art critic, I hope that I have provided for you
a canvas on which to paint your own words so that next
year, though I will not be here to paint my own words,
you will attend an artistic event every now and then and
discover for yourself a certain brilliance, a kind of beauty,
behind the artistic productions held at W&L.

‘Top Girls’ opens

BY MEGAN MORGAN
ASSISTANT ARTS & LIFE EDITOR

“Top Girls”, a play written by Caryl Churchill and
directed by Shemina Keshvani Llloyd, opened here on
Friday, May 23rd. The play examines the problems of
women as they break through the glass ceiling in the
business world.

The play opens in a restaurant in 1980 London
where the main character is celebrating her promotion.
She is joined by a host of famous women from
throughout the centuries including Isabella Bird, a
Englishwoman from the nineteenth century who

. traveledextensively and chronicled those travels, Lady

Nijo an Emperor’s courtesan and later a Buddist nun in
the thirteenth century who traveled on foot across
Japan and wrote of her life, Dull Gret who was painted
by Brueghel in an apron leading a host of women

SEE GIRLS, PAGE 6

H191. 'iN(;§—TU'lt=lI)}*

 

  

its

LIFE

PAGE 5

The Absolute Fratlord shares his year in review

Another year is over.

In a week, we will all be partying and
vacationing, as Professor Porter says, in Auckland
or Sydney or Tahiti or at some other exotic South
Seas location.

The seniors will have to stay an extra week as
they contemplate their fast—approaching
unemployment and their option to enroll in the
University of Patagonia.

But before we leave, in the Phi’s ﬁnal issue of the
year, I will use this sounding board to deal out the Frat
Lord’s year-end awards:

The “Unsung General other than Meriggi”
Award: Mike Hoover

Hoover was the Men’s Intramural
Director this year, a job that requires
ridiculous amounts of time and one that probably doesn’t
get the praise it deserves.

When he’s not leading Sig Ep to victory in Ping Pong,
Volleyball, and Basketball, he has to organize every
intramural event so that every fraternity can engage in
glorious competition.

The “W&L Mr. Congeniality”Award: Jefferson Gillespie
Brooks

This was a hotly contested award battle, since
our school is rife with those sociable genteel
Southern-types who are known for their
conversations and willingness to be outgoing.
Though Thomas Worthy almost got the nod, the Frat

    

Lord chose Jeb! Brooks at the last minute. In addition
to his work with the Phi and his love for community
service, Jeb succeeds at being generally the nicest
person on the planet.

The “In Over My Head”Award: Tom Burish

President Burish’s first lap was a tough one.

All the Spring Term issues remain unresolved, but
they will probably determine what students think
about Burish for years to come. Time will tell if
Burish can handle the heat when tempers ﬂare in
Lex Vegas.

The “Coolest W&L Person Not

ABSOLUTE FRATLORD Currently Enrolled at W&L” Award:
.........IlM..§MlIHf04

Lucy Frick
The lovely Lucy just came back to
celebrate her 21st at the Palms with
Italian diva (and her former roommate) Hilary Henry,
and it reminded me how cool she is and how much
more drab this place is without her. If you are one
of the people fortunate enough to know her, you’ll
agree with me.
The “Coolest W&L Person Who Re-Enrolled to W&L”
Award: Chris Tully
The Puerto-Rican Teddy Bear returned to Lex
Vegas this year to appease all his fans. He didn’t
disappoint. The Lodge immediately tripled in musical
fratty coolness upon his return, and God knows he will
continue to provide entertainment for us all for years to
come.

The “Guaranteed to Brighten Your Day” Award: Kate
Muscalino

Kate’s personality has no rival. She single-
handedly makes the Science Center the coolest place
to study - though not much actual studying ever goes
on there. She always seems to be on the Hill, which is
a blessing, since she’s super-cool and will inevitably
make you smile.
The “No One is Cooler than Allegro” Award: Justin
Allegro I

This one speaks for itself.
The “Random PIKA Brother Awar ” Award: Charlie
Clarke

He’s cool. He plays Ultimate Frisbee. I can’t
pronounce his middle name. Now if only he regrew
that mountain man beard he had earlier in the school
year.
The “Brett T‘. Kirwan Self-GIon'fication”Award: Tim 7.‘
Smith

Every now and again, I like to give myself credit for
doing something well. There are always a few folks
who love to give people ﬂak for blatently patting
themselves on the back. This award is especially for
them.

It’s been a long, tough year, and as always it will be a
short, relaxing summer.

Until next year, I’ll leave you all wondering how it is
that someone was silly enough to give me a newspaper
column. Iknowl am.

Senior reﬂeets on his four unforgettable years

BY NEAL WILLETS
(j0\'TRIBL'TIN(3 EDITOR"

Every year there is some senior,
waxing nostalgic who tries to tell you
everything about W&L that is great,
good, and grand. This year, here’s some
advice from a senior who’s both loved
and hated the school, often at the same,
but will be graduating June 5 after a four
year stint at this school that has deﬁnitely
been the four greatest years of my life.
Without further adieu (in no specific
order)...

The Top TenThings TO D0 in your 4 years
at W&L:

1. Go abroad. Anywhere, to study
anything. The best thing you can do
for yourself is to leave for a semester,
a year, or evenjust a Spring Term. You
come back with a new found love and
appreciation for the school, even if
you were its biggest fan before you
left, coming back you will love it even
more.

2. Go to Buffalo Creek, but beware the
barbed wire.

3. Spend as much time in the sun,
whether at Goshen or on the front lawn as
possible. After winter term, EVERYONE
needs some sun.

4. Even if you aren’t the fratty type, go
to at least one frat party a semester. If you
are the fratty type, then party as much as
possible.

5. Streak the Colonnade, at least once,
if not once a year.

6. Go to LeeHi aﬁer 2a.m., at least once
a year.

7.Do a random road trip,
spontaneously, to at least one or two states
away. It’ll be the best weekend of your
college career. (I highly recommend Ohio/
Kentucky personally, not to far of a drive,
but still a road trip)

8. Meet people. Throw yourself out
into the public arena. You’ll very rarely be
disappointed with the folks that admissions
deem worthy to join us.

9. Go see the plays at Lenfest. It’s not
Broadway, but it’s not half bad either.

I0. Take at least one class in each
building on campus before you graduate.
Somehow, I’m graduating without ever
having set foot in the C-School or DuPont,
and never took a J-School or Philosophy
class.

Top Ten Things NOT TO D0 in your 4 years
at W&L:

1. Don’t double major. It’s not worth
the extra time. Pick one, and do it. Then
take the extra time to take a bunch of classes
that you are really interested in. All the
people that have jobs for next year only
have one major anyway, so why do the extra
work, only to have to move back in with
your parents?

2. Don’t ever think your social circle is
complete and that you don’t need anymore
friends, or that the friend you have one year

will be your bosom buddy all four years
here. People change as quickly as the
winds. You’ll always have some constant
friends, but often a large part of your social
group will change year to year and semester
to semester.

3. Don’t streak the Colonnade before
1a.m., or even really before 2a.m., unless
you’re really brave. A

4. Don’t ever belittle any of the campus
publications. They ALL work REALLY hard
to bring you the things that you so love to
complain about. The Calyx, Phi and
Trident are all quality publications that have
students working their butts off, for little to
no respect or reward.

5. Don’t ever think that things are
perfect as they are. Something or
someone will come along and try and
change them, and try as you might,
something are totally out of our hands,
and we have to grin and bear it, no matter
how much we may hate the situation. Be
adaptable, and ﬂexible, and willing to
grow. This school wouldn’t have lasted
254 years if it wasn’t willing to change
occasionally.

6. Don’t transfer out of W&L unless
you are really absolutely, totally and
utterly miserable. The school really
redeems itself for those of you with
issues. Especially senior year. There is
nothing better than being a senior at this
school.

7. Don’t think that the only place you

can go in town to drink is the Palms. The
Southern Inn, while a little pricier, is much
nicer, more intimate, quieter, and a lot less
smoky.

8. If you can at all help it, never let
yourself be sent to Stonewall Jackson
Hospital, that is, if you want to come out
alive.

9. Don’t get arrested. Lex Police don’t
like us very much, and will take ANY
excuse they can get to try and haul you
off to jail.

10. Don’t ever be intolerant, of
anything, or anyone. Intolerance is
ignorance, and we’re all way too intelligent
to sink to that level. On some level, and in
some way, there is some good in everyone
and in any situation.

Take this with a grain of salt, or cut
it out and carry along in your wallet like
it’s the Bible. You may or may not agree
whole-heartedly with me on one or many
of these issues. Everyone’s experience
in college is different and unique. There
have been rough times, and fantastic
times in my four years. Thank you to
the people who made the fantastic times
so great, and to the people who helped
me through the rough spots. Any
institution is no better than the people
that make it up, and on the whole, the
people that make up W&L are a pretty
great bunch.

Thanks for a Roller Coaster 4-years,
W&L, I’ll send postcards from Hawaii.

W&L students set out to conquer the world this summer

BY MARY CHRISTOPHER
SENIOR STAFI’ \\7RITER

Summer is approaching fast. There are two weeks
left of spring term. The weather is getting warmer—
well, maybe not. The seniors are graduating. The
freshmen aren’t babies any more and there is one more
question. What is in store for the summer? Will W&L
students lounge on the beach, take up jobs, take
class, travel, party? Well, from speaking with a few of
them, we learn they are doing it all. The majority of
the student body plans to take on part-time jobs or
intern with a company, while others plan on
volunteering at a camp or organization, or in the words
of freshman Melissa Draggett “Sit around doing
nothing.” But of course, all these busy students will
leave enough time for travel and friends. While some
have big plans others are keeping it simple, I now
provide you will a glimpse of the futures of your
fellow class—mates:

The workers:

Kate Talbert, a junior, looks forward to a very
rewarding summer. She is going to be a teaching intern
at Choate Rosemary Hall in Connecticut. In addition to
teaching, she will be living with middle schoolers, good
old middle schoolers. She states, “It’s going to be a
blast, I know”

Freshman Virginia Baird also looks forward to an
enriching summer: She will be going back home to
Houston, TX and working with her mom. She will also
take a drawing class with her little brother and
hopefully go to Charleston, the home of her best
friend. .

Freshman Kendall Murphy will take on the camp
situation. She will be working as a counselor at Camp
Horizons in Harrisonburg, Va. this summer teaching
performing arts.

Sophomore Kristin Crawford, will be working at Camp
Starﬁsh. Crawford explains, “It’s a camp in Cape Cod for
kids with psychological disorders, behavioral and
emotional”. I

Freshman Collier Pace is also working (on ﬁnding
ladies) this summer: He explains ‘.‘I’m going to be a lifeguard
all summer in Orlando. I’ll be at a country club surrounded

by hot rich girls.” ,

Freshman Julie Anderson also plans to work this
summer. But unlike Collier she will not be at a country
club. She, in contrast, will be working with nature on a
campaign to save the environment. The people of
Pennsylvania will appreciate her eﬂbrts, as Anderson’s
campaign is for the improvement of conditions in
Philadelphia.

The travelers:

Sophomore Alex Schaerrer has an interesting
summer planned for her and it all starts on June 7: “I
am ﬂying out with my family to Malta, which is a little
island just under Sicily in the middle of the
Mediterranean. My mom is from there, so we always
go back and visit our family...basically lots of good
food, sun and beaches. After that I am going to be in
Switzerland (my home) for two weeks, just hiking
around the Alps. After that I am spending two weeks
in Montana on our ranch...after that will likely be
another extremely outdoorsy Montana stay, I am
heading to Texas for the rest of the summer to hang
out with my best friend.” Alex explained that she is
excited to go to Texas because she has never been to
most of the states.

Freshman Chris Applewhite will be heading to New
Mexico in order to hike for ten days. Applewhite has
been taking routine visits to the Fitness Center to
prepare for the exciting adventure, as well as
volunteering for the Fitness Challenge this weekend.

The everything crew: traveling, interning and
ﬁiends:

Sophomore Michael Diverio clearly falls under this
category. He is renting NYU housing in Washington
Square, New York, and taking a Lab Science. He will
also be interning and working as a waiter in Times Square
until early August. On the weekends he will be going
up to his house on Cape Cod and will also rent a house
in the Hamptons in mid-august with some friends.

Cross Country freshman star Molly Drake will also

be spending a lot of time in New York. Yet, unlike

Devario she will spend her time seeing Broadway
shows, and shopping. After she gets her ﬁll of the
“Big Apple” she will return home to Florida to work at
a law ﬁrm and retail store.

Freshman Melissa Clarke will spend a lot of time

‘catching up with her friends at home in New Jersey. She

will be going to the beach, taking a road trip to Maine,
going to a lot of concerts and probably getting a job. As
for the job, if she does not ﬁnd occupation at a law ﬁrm
she will waitress at “one of the touristy seafood
restaurants” at home.

The volunteer:

Vishal Sapra, a freshman has much volunteering in
his future. He is the leader of the infamous Teen Freedom
Corps. He will be doing joint-ventures with both MTV
and Seeds of Peace, a non-proﬁt, non-political organization
dedicated to preparing teenagers from areas of conﬂict
with the leadership skills required to promote coexistence
and peace. He wishes he could tell you more but “the
details of the initiatives are top-secret, my apologies.”

He also claims he will be at his shore house in Avalon,
N.J. and will be in London in the beginning of July visiting
friends. Mid-July he will attend the World Future Society
meeting in San Francisco, Cal. to discuss how social and
technological changes affect our future. Topics to be
discussed include futures, environment, learning and
education, globalization, values, economics, governance,
science and technology, society, health, busines and
more. Along with all this, he hopes to get his pilots
license and construct “a giant straw that will enable me
to drink heavily with minimal effort.”

The academic:

Sophomore Patrick Hasting hopes to accomplish a,
lot this summer. He will be living and working at
Shakespeare and Co. bookstore on the left bank in Paris.
At the same time, he will be writing an independent study
on the site’s signiﬁcance to the modernist literary
movement.

The intem:

Sophomore Caitlan Hagan has a wonderful
internship opportunity lined up for her. She will be
working in New York for “Good Morning America”.
Hagan is so excited to be working with such a well
established company and hopes to make the best out
of her experience.

Maybe some of these amazing things students are
doing, working on, or volunteering for can give you some
insight into what you may want to do in future summers.

 

 

 

[lltlb (X Lirh     ~",~«    "
Taste ‘Trip’           . »

BY LAURA LEIGH BIRDWELL
SENIOR sT.\I~‘I' WRITER
Sometimes it’s a little melancholic.
Sometimes it makes me think.

Sometimes I listen to it when I need
some “down time” to myself. Sometimes

it makes me smile just to be alive. But
one thing’s for certain: for two weeks
now, it has remained in my CD player, '
waking me up, playing when I get ready

to go out, or filling the room as I type. It

has been in my CD player for two weeks
now and for anything to remainin my
CD player for more than alday says a
lot about the quality of the album.

It’s “A Taste” by Trip: Alex Wilkins,

Jordan Wolﬁ‘, Laurence Eaton, Brandon
Waddell, and Connor Kirsch (and help
from Josh “Knuckles” Harvey on keys/
organ). I wrote about the band earlier in

the year. They were “Alex Vlrilkjns and _ I H “USA \ 9 ' '1£’""'
FI.iendS,»1be1-leve_ Imust admit; I like BURN, BABY BURN: Washington and Lee students enjoy burning wood and furniture at one of the many fraternity bonfires at Zollman’s.

Trip much better, giys.

The album is primarily Alex
Wilkins, who wrote seven out of the
eight tracks. He’s the lead singer and
“ringleader” of Trip. The songs
themselves seem to be a combination
of every cover song they perform, yet
at the same time, Wilkins has definitely
discovered his own, unique style. And
I must say it’s quite beautiful.

\Vilkins has a sublime voice. It’s
smooth and he sings with such ease and
grace that I can’t help but wonder whether
it is possible to sing beautifully if you are
not naturally talented. He is
overwhelmingly talented. Singing
comes so easily for him. Those of you
who have seen him perform know what
I mean. He sings as though that is what
he is meant to do in life.

“A Taste” has eight songs. They
aren’t ‘angry’ like 311, nor are they
depressing like Radiohead. They’re
songs about life, good and bad.

And of course, I cannot mention the
album without saying a world about the
infamous “Kappa Song,” the only song
not composed by Wilkins. All genius is

attributed to Jordan Wolff for this one. ,  V‘ i H , . . . ‘
What to say about this song, I’m not M:\RlAME\'E }1eRir1g-tm /21‘
really sure. Just listen for yourself and , . H FUN IN THE SUN: Three W&L students lounge on one of the couches brought out for the Buffalo Creek bonﬁres.
thinkofthe Lodge, home toalot ofreally _ W M /TW<«IW”II'

great guys and W &L in general. It has a DOWN BYTI-IE RIVER: Students relax in the river on Saturday afternoon. V

nice twist and, well, if you haven’t heard
it yet, you’ 11 find it’s quite entertaining.
So, for ataste of Trip, buy the album.
Wilkins is superb, and the band is truly
brilliant Save it for a rainy day Spring Term
(we’ve had our share), snuggle under the
covers, and listen. It’s a good buy.

I GIRLS, FROM PAGE 5

charging thorugh hell and ﬁghting
devils, Pope Joan a woman who
disguised as a man was Pope between
854 and 856 A.D. and Patient Griselda
whose obedience to her husband is the
subject of a story by Petrach, Boccaccio
and Chaucer. As the women begin to
drink Frascati wine, famous for the wild
things that happen when it is
consumed, each ones story is told,
showing the continuing struggles and
tragedies of women. The focus then

 

shiﬁs to modern women, telling the »
stories of the women employed at the

Top Girls Agency, an employment [ M K I F gm Ji

agen.Cy’ the W.omen that com? through AND THE BAND PLAYED ON: The Hackerisaw Boys, a local band, provided spectators with amusing banter f
looking for a Job. )-

. . and good music. They received a warm and enthusiastic reception from the students who listened to them.
The cast consist of Emily Pace,

Sarah Jafri, Alix Warren, Victoria
Stanham, Sarah Ovin, Chrisitne I

 

  

   

   

Palazzolo, Patrice Wedderbum and V
Ruth Esponda all of which play _ b
mu1t1P1er°1<=S~ 63 FUN cases «v APRIL C0;ENE1,'i. CLOTHING e Riizretses 29
H 33 %
. E ,3. V
H H I ‘J’ ‘I
0 E I
cu '3‘ I
in F rx V’ ° A
GALLERY —* 0 ‘
on
6» c t I t' ‘°
,, ongra U a IONS. '3» —
27 W. Washington Street 5: 3 p :
Lexinqtomvirginin 5 "’  .
540-453-8827 tn "I 1
- 8 , RELAX, REFRESH, RENEW. Q:
www.netsontIrieaitsgal|ery.oom E3 0 I _*
npeIImIy1 i run. -spm. 5’ E i :
orbyqapnilirnm Z {"3 I .4:
c1osodW«lmadoys&$mda_vs <{ C, I :_
f~  U V? i 1
N! RN83’  ,   Cascades Day Spa is NOW OPEN and accepting appointments for body and skin care. I
; YDUOCIGK1 H1 1999..   We provide a professional and educational environment for your total well being. .1
i  “mks of  mm mint“   I Cascades Day Spa is located in the newest building in the rear of Magnolia Square. 
i by’ bcaiand Iaukmal in‘: E g’ Parents, reward your graduate with a restful visit to a fitst~<:lass spa. 
! pgﬂwmg annnqununmg gum‘  1 N Main St {[3 Graduates, thank your parents with the pampering they deserve. :
‘  __, ‘ L ' ‘  Better yet, celebrate this achievmerir together! Come join us for an experience the whole family can appreciate. I
_ U Lﬁxmﬂlﬁlﬂz    (lascaltles Day Spa has a friendly, experienced staff, 6 beautiful treatment rooms, and many healthy treatments for the body and skin. '3
 5 540.‘; in ‘X Gift cettficates and spa packages are available.  ‘y
I ' _ p . V .. ‘ 2
[ tMl.UAMF. areas 3 w=.~w.shoI>mn»i;;uI:iseeds.cazn I I CS 1
—, BARBARAORRWFORD 3:» I , ,5
{ P&|s1£YB(3:I0tF=HN ‘:3 g D A Y {--..;”‘;::%) s P A .
HOIHY KVELL '
DOJMETWEAVER Q,‘ MITTEN3 -- $YA”t‘3C>NE RY - HOME ACCENT3 $3 “”““‘”-C“‘‘°‘‘d“‘*“>’~‘P“'°°‘“
; lK)‘I HJDASILL ' ' A i i ‘ ~ i Open Tuesday—Friday, 10-8; Saturday 10»5 _“'
 KIRAI-I van SICKLE ; 540.463.2888 ‘ ~-
41 355 5511359 ‘ Located on Rt. ll North in Magnolia Square, in the rear building.

 

  

 
      
   

        
 
    
   
   
   
 
 

 

 

 

 

   
  

  
     
     
    

KKXXXXXXXXKKKAKKKK
Dusky Alb:-ﬁght Tina Harbiias Pattrick Murphy
Justafz Allggm Sean Hardin Ryan Murphy
‘ H Biafr Ailen A Anti}; Harding Katherine Muscalino R A D U A
* M ’ Teddae Arm;-id Kyle Hoary pm-hen Mustaga
Michael Augustine Brad Beam Paul Ne,-gmn
Kfziii Austin Gregory Heruiier Jennifer Ncisen
* Diane Averyt Catherine Henson Robin Okin *  N N I N G  
T MEIR Barker Scott I-ietzerznan Emery Ordemann
Earl Benscm Sallie Higgins Emily Pace '
Kevin Bihona Andrew Hirsekom Katha-in; Pekmaﬁ *
Dciia Boom: Adrianna Hook Rapha¢},P5z1tggd9
Mergdith Emil Blair Huﬂhzan gamn Pﬁgys
5 RSTCT1  K.I.'!:§‘sT€X} I-{untlcy  ﬁckcng
A h} giyson Bnce Joanna James Kempton Prgsley
-5 ~‘-‘-3’ 17333 Erika Pmko
V “ [ 3“
‘ L‘:‘§“mF“B’i’f:"; On behalf of the W8zsL Annual Fund, we Mam?“ ‘
gm-.5 Caglgbfﬂ thank the m.en1‘bers cf the Class of 2003 Mark Ream‘ 8
Richard Campbeii listed here. These generous individuals Lauren Robbins
K911i C9-79511391‘ h * V d t  .- Lincoln Rose-
. Em Cam! _ ave commute 8 <3 s ygar 3 Senior Wicmuehﬁng
#* BJa.z1¢tCC:§;:r Pledge Project. If you wish to honor Catherine *
‘3"‘!,:;i§& ‘*3’ you; tune m Lexmgton, please consider sggiigf
* %H§n§r  a aft of $20.03 payable by June 2004. Saundarg *
1 -0 am Kath , ” -Sham
K Krista Came: ddi . T _ 4 . Amgﬁgm
Km-n Cgﬂovc A ‘ tmnal tha_r1ks to the 86mm“ Pledge Chris Shannon *
M V5311 Cg? Project Commxttee for then‘ help in this wag Sham
at ext; amen V . E £1" gh
* Jmph Cfmnm effort! We 1<?o_k fofward to apnqqncmg Djﬂg 
N‘
(éar§crgeupr1:e your part1c1pat1on at Senior Nxght gm sgmmong
 a‘“” W55 (Wednesday May 28) P RY813991311
Burke Duncan ’ ‘  gmggh
Giana. Duncan 3333 gmggh
A 5 . » - V. 3
* unasaman smcemxy mm * 20 7o OFF
391133 5321313 - M I Sv- {isen
‘ . Andy Foisorn 8: Emma Thomas V ‘*5 S“
* Allen Clare Eikms ' * V T 1;,
, i We mom, Olass of2003 Class Agents Emﬂf; :3:,,,:% *

I Tergaa Etemo fol5om_1@w1u.edu thomaseo@w!u.edu . Jenny Thomas

,* QJhmF 8 Lauren Tieuli *
 Edwgrd Ifkpley Rebecca Johns Elizabeth '§‘ownsend ’ *

   ““**‘°*‘°m SPORT SHIRTS & COTTON SWEATERS

_ Austgx §?":2s.her Matthew Kimhrough Christina Twomey
K ' Juha Fitzesr Stacey Kixxzmel Jeanne Upchurch

-    ‘k PATCH MADRAS SLACKS & SH RT

1 Amy Folsom Heather Knot: Dan Walker

V Kgiliy Forrest Kari Kuersteiner Caro], Wang
A Jéiiiisrrn Jeremy Laucks Jamie Watkins &

. usan -' .i at JaneLed1ie Mike Watts

* Mao; Gmrge Robert Littiehaie Brandi Jane Wedgewonh *

; Avery Ffhnn Gholstan Shaicnc Magec Craig Wcinman

* f Calm Gleason William Martin Davis White
7* Kamryn Glemag Bradley Matthews Armwhitham *

i  Goldsmith Mary Carol Mazza Gmeth. Winstead 7

~ Rcbfnson Graham Marc McAfee Susan Woodward

j Eiizabeth Gray Jake Mdiiister Virginia W00’:-en
 Cﬁarc Green Thomas Meianson Jenny" Wright

| Aiiiscm Gruenwald Charisse Minor

.‘ Maria Hadjiaicxicau Michelie Moore
  ‘ﬁr   ‘Av COLLEGE TOWN SHOP

‘*******     mw NELSONST

7 East Beverley Street - Staunton, VA - 540-886-8666 - Hours: Mon—Sat: 10am-9pm; Sun: 12am-6pm

 

ERlN]Ll.lL‘S
SPORIS Eonor
EAn1i;jLuUsr@wir.i;i3t

THE RLN{}~’l‘tiM Par

MONDAY, MAY 26, 2003

Field Hockey team
will return four

All-ODAC plyes

IJIEIHOTU

FIELD HOCKEY. Kitt Murphy an ‘05 midﬁelder is in action last season.

BY JOHN HYLAND
.\‘i’()RTS \\'Rl'l‘F.R

Injust their third year as a var-
sity team, the W&L ﬁeld hockey
team is poised for an ODAC cham-
pionship in 2003. The team finished
10-9 overall last season and 6-3 in

. conference, losing to Lynchburg in

ODAC semi-finals.
The Generals return virtually
their entire team from the 2002
squad, losing only defender
Kathleen Gibson. Despite their suc-
cess last season, the team was fairly
inexperienced as 16 ofthe 21 play-
ers on the roster were either fresh-
men or sophomores, many of whom
saw signiﬁcant playing time. The
experience gained last season will
without a doubt help them in the
upcoming season. Two of those
underclassmen were goaltenders
Courtney Harrison and Elise
Gelinas who split time during their
freshmen campaigns.
Along with all oftheir points and
saves, the team returns four all-
ODAC performers. Sophomore
midﬁelder Kitt Murphy led the team
in scoring in 2002, with 18 points
on 5 goals and 8 assists. In addi-
tion to being named to the All-
ODAC ﬁrst team, she also received
All-State and All-Region recogni-
tion. Junior midfielder Mateina
Moure received second team All-
ODAC honors whilejunior forward

the

Kelly Taffe and freshman defender
Katharine Lester were named hon-
orable mention. These four will be
relied upon heavily to lead the team
in the 2003 season, especially
Moure and Taffe who along with
sophomore forward Kristen Brown
will be the team’s captains for the
upcoming season.

Freshman midfielder S.B.
Northen believes, “we are going to
be a very good team. We are strong
all around and our speed gives us
a huge advantage on our home
turf.” Clearly, the Generals did have
a huge home ﬁeld advantage last
season going 7-2 on the W&L turf
ﬁeld while ﬁnishingjust 3-7Aaway
from Lexington. Part of the team’s
problems in road games was be-
cause there were no grass ﬁelds for
them to use, and the majority of
schools use grass ﬁelds for games.
That problem has been solved for
2003, however, with the new grass
fields that the school has pro-
duced, the team will now have fa-
cilities to practice for road games
while still maintaining their home
ﬁeld advantage on their turf ﬁeld.

Playing on turf leads to a faster
game, which plays to the team’s
strengths. The combination of bet-
ter practice facilities, a great deal
of experience and what is believed
to be a very strong recruiting class
should make the Generals a formi-
dable team in 2003.

PORTS

PAGE 8r

PING

L

Jan Roo/TbePrin,g-hmzPl1i
PONG. Farhan Mustafa hits a ping pong ball to Matt Treco in a game of the final IM tournament of the year.

Hanson wins
National honor "

FROM STAFF REPORTS

W&L senior shortstop Michal‘
Hanson has been named to the
ABCA/Rawlings Division III All-
America baseball tern. Placed on
third team, Hanson is just the sec-it
ond baseball player in W&L his-
tory to have earned All-America
honors.

Thad Ellis, ’82, earned a Third
Team nomination after his 1980 sea-
son.

Hanson was also the 2003 Old
Dominion Athletic Conference
Player of the Year and garneredk
Second Team All-ODAC honors
his first two seasons and First
Team honors his last two sea-
sons. A

Hanson batted a .371 with ﬁve
homers, 12 doubles, 23 RBIs and
14 stolen bases. He also holds the
school record in runs, having re-
corded 46 and is a career .360 hit-I.
ter. Upon graduation, Hanson will
be the all-time leader in games
played at 136, in at-bats with 519,
in hits with 187 in runs with 148, in,
doubles with 43, in triples with 13
and in stolen bases with 51.
Hanson was also W&L’s leadoff
hitter and he ﬁnished his career af-,,
ter reaching base in 74 straight
games. This streak dates back to
April 2001.

1|.

Women’s soccer coming off its best season, losing only 3

BY DONNY BANKS
.\SSiST.\N’l' Sl’()RTS EDITOR

The Washington and Lee women’s soccertearn, com-
ing off its best season ever, should be in store for an equally
impressive year in 2003. The Generals lose only three
seniors, midﬁelder Jenny Thomas and defenders Lindsey
Duranand Jane Ledlie, this Juneto graduation. Whiletheir
departure will certainly make an impact, the consequences
should prove short-lived because of a talented group of
returning veterans and a slew of talented recruits.

“Collectively, the nucleus of the team stays intact
and we have 10 freshmen coming in that will all chal-
lenge for starting positions,” Head Coach Neil
Cunningham said regarding next year’s lineup. “Our
depth this year should be a huge asset.”

Captain Meghan Hayde echoes his sentiment:
“Although we are losing three important players to
graduation, the core of our team will be returning next
year. With the addition of some talented new freshmen,
there is no reason why we won’t be able to uphold our
title with hard work and dedication.”

Last year was a monumental one for the Gener-
als, who posted an overall record of 17-2-3, won the
ODAC Tournament, and received a berth to the
NCAA National Tournament, the ﬁrst in its history.
The team ﬁnished the season ranked 16"‘ nationally
after losing to University of Texas at Dallas in the
Semi-Final game of the NCAA South Regionals.

Not surprisingly, this success seems to have in-
stilled a lot of conﬁdence in the Generals. “By making
it to the NCAA’s last year, we have set the bar high for
this season,” Hayde further commented. “Our goal is
to prove that our championship season was not a one-
time thing. We want to make sure that we continue our
successes from last year and build on them.”

Despite their record-breaking year, the Generals
are far from satiated. There are still a lot of unfulﬁlled

goals to be attained, domination most notable of all.
“We don’t just want to slide by in overtime or pen-
alty kicks, we want to decidedly win,” said Captain
Forward Fontaine Marcoux. “We have never beaten
Lynchburg, as our advance over them last season
during penalty kicks goes on the record as a tie.”

Receiving a better seed in the ODAC Touma-
ment also seems to be of high priority, according to
Coach Curmingham. “Our aim is to try to repeat
what we did last year in terms of successes, but we
feel like we would like to aim at being the number
one seed going into the conference tournament, and
therefore host the tournament, especially as we play
in our new stadium next fall. Last year we won it
from the number three position.”

Prior success can only help the Generals so
much, however, and freshmen are never a guaran-
tee, so the burden of producing another 2002 will
ultimately fall on the players from last year. The
team will hold a big advantage in experience, with
four seniors in defender Meghan Hayde, midﬁelder
Heather Coleman, and forwards Fontaine Marcoux
and Susannah Hewlett, and nine juniors.

In addition, many of these veterans are well
decorated. Sophomore defender Kelley Zagol gained
recognition as a NSCAAAII Region First Team, and
Junior defender Meghan Hayde was a Third team
selection for the NSCAA and was named an honor-
able mention for the VaSlDA1l-State team. Five other
veterans, Romney Virillson (First Team), Maggie
Hope (Second Team), Gina Von Stemberg (Second
Team, Rookie of the Year), Molly Plummer (Second
Team), and Emily Barker (Honorable Mention), were
honored as All-ODAC athletes.

The sophomores, too, should contribute sig-
niﬁcantly. As a freshman, midﬁelder Gina Von
Stemberg scored 22 goals and had 20 assists on her
way to receiving All-ODAC Freshman of the Year,

VaSID All-State First Team, and NSCAA Second Team‘
All-Region accolades. Defender Heather Rogers and
midﬁelder Kerry Giblin willjoin her in adding to the
strong core of veterans.

Coach Cunningham understands the team dy-
namics well, and he looks to the 2003 season very»
positively with respect to personnel. “Vifrth excel-
lent leadership from our captains, Meghan Hayde,
Fontaine Marcoux, and Kelley Zagol, we will hope-
fully repeat as ODAC champions. I am expecting big
things off rising juniors Maggie Hope, Romney
Virrllson and Alison Irvin and Emily Barker, and also
hoping last year’s freshman class will continue to
develop and make giant strides in Gina Von Stemberg,
Kerry Giblin, and Heather Rogers,” he said. 1-;

Above all, the Generals will look to Cunningham
for guidance. In two seasons at Washington and
Lee, the coach has a 26-8-4 overall record. This past
year, he has earned unprecedented recognition, hav- I
ing been named NSCAA, VaSID, and ODAC Coacli‘
of the Year. Clearly, the Generals will be well led.

VV1th a new ﬁeld and stadium, excellent coaching,
solid returning talent, and more than enough conﬁdence
fromanarnazingprevious season, 2003 looks very prom;
ising for the Washingon and Lee women’s soccer team.

The Generals seem to agree that all they will need
to add to this recipe is hard work and camaraderie, nei-
ther of which is unattainable or unexpected. As Cap-
tain Meghan Hayde put it, “We are very lucky because
we have such a close team. The fact that we work hard
stems from the respect we have for each other on and
off the ﬁeld. We hope to take that attitude into pre-
season and demonstrate it to the incoming freshman;
Nobody is willing to settle for less than we are capable
of, and we are without a doubt capable of winning the
ODAC’s and advancing even farther in the NCAA’s.”

It’s hard to predict anything but success for the
Generals next season. U

W&L’s cross-country teams solid group of returnees next year

BY MARY CHRISTOPHER
srorrs xnnrrr

The women’s cross country team certainly has a lot
to look forward to in the 2003 season.
freshman really contributed to the success of the team

this year and Coach Schuckert is ex-
cited for their return as experienced
sophomores.

She explained: “We have a very
solid crew of returners in Molly
Drake, Betsy Frayer, Megan Ward,
Vanessa Adams, Alexis Fernandez,
Erin Johnson, Jessica Remmert,
Ashley Brown and Karen
Blackburn.”

The team will also look forward
to some newcomers who have some
experience with the sport having run
at least 1 year in high school. These
girls are Mary Christopher and Debra
Kubas.

These former high school soc-
cer athletes will be making their de-
but for the General’s cross country
team and in the words of Kubas, “look
forward to the challenge”.

Two freshmen recruits will also be added to the mix and
could likely make a very positive impact on the top seven:
Jenny Ratzel (Brookﬁeld East High School/Elm Grove, WI)

 

and Tippins Stone (Harpeth Hall School/Nashville, TN).

Coach Schuckert realizes that in addition to the abili-
ties of the runners, “the leadership of upper-class veter-
ans Johnson, Remmert, Adams, and Fernandez will cer-
tainly be a beneﬁt to the team. I think we have a very
solid core of returnees.”

The objective is for each indi-
vidual to truly strive to make a contri-
bution to the success of the team. This
is certainly an athletic goal—but can
also be so much more. Great attitude,
great ideas, great leadership—all of
these aspects make up a team and a
group is solidiﬁed by each indiVidual’s
willingness to contribute to the team
elfort in her own special way.

I think we have a very special
group of women and their ability to
come together and support one an-
other is one of the team’s strongest
attributes.

Her remarks are very inspiring
and are the basis for the up and com-
ing season.

After completing a summer of
carefully planned workouts, the girls
will be ready for any challenge, and will be ready to work
together to achieve what they know they can!

The men are also hard at work getting ready for next
season. i

A strong team of

 

Coach Tucker is the lead men coach and is just as
excited as the men are about what’s to come.

The team has a lot of great competitors with a great
work ethic, which is extremely promising. There returnees
include: Steve Chambers ’05, Andrew Fotinos ’04, Todd
Martin ’06, Dan McMenamin ’05,-Rusty Meyer ’o4, Jer-
emy Mims ’04, Matt Reilley ’06, Andy Schorr ’04, Daniel
Vos ’04, and Eric
Whitt ’04. These
men had a great
season this year
and are ready to
continue that
trend into the
2003 season.

R i s i n g
Freshman Casey
Gillan, David
Kronenfeld, and
Bartlett Layton
will also join the
roster.

At the end
of last season,
Bell, Schorr,
Chambers and Duncan each earned All-Region accolades
for their top 25 ﬁnishes at the NCAA South/Southeast
Regional held at Mary Washington College. The men’s
squad had ﬁnished fifth of 23 teams with 160 points, while

2003 Cross-country schedule:

Sat. Sept. 13th—W&L Invite

Sat. Sept. 20th—Roanoke lnvitationa|—Roanoke
FriISat. Sept. 26-27-Training Weekend

Oct. 4th—Dickinson |nvite——Car|isle, PA

Oct. 11th—Division Ill State Meet-—Harrisonburg , ‘
Oct. 18--'DeSa|es—A||entown, PA

Oct. 25—Training Weekend

Sat. Nov. 1st—ODAC’s @ Lynchburg—Lynchburg,‘

Sat. Nov. 15—Regiona|s @ Emory—At|anta, GA

A

Sat. Nov. 22—Nationa|s in Hanover, IN

 

(‘V

 

/lY‘C-h
at '€373.755
K 55% ’_

 

'v- I0 6
I V--NA. ’
-I C ~ 2.
d
A
4
J
i*
K
BY ALLISON PERRY
SPORTS EDITOR

Washington and Lee may see the arrival this year of a new
"emity on campus in place of an old one. The Sigma Phi Epsilon
tional Board of Directors decided at their meeting in May to close
tshington and Lee’s chapter. The former Washington and Lee
;Ep members are now working to start an Alpha Delta Phi chapter
campus.

The former SigEp brothers say their chapter was closed be-
1se they did not follow the fraternity’s Balanced Man Program.

IQ. “While the Balanced Man Program (BMP) is a voluntary pro-

.m, SigEp has slowly been converting all its chapters to the BMP,”
Ishington and Lee SigEp President Chris Colby said.

“SigEp nationals can by no means withdraw a charter strictly
red on the fact that that particular chapter is balanced man, but
y can create false allegations and seize it based on those allega-
ns.”

The SigEp national website says the Balanced Man Program is
four year membership development program.” The organization

* fl yes that through this program they can tackle problems like inad-

1ate community and campus involvement and tear down the “frat
y” stereotype.

This program would also do away with pledgeship, giving mem-
‘s full privileges from day one.

SigEp says the BMP has nothing to do with Washington and
e’s chapter losing their charter. SigEp Communications Director
)tt Thompson said each chapter decides to implement the BMP

 .y through vote. Eighty percent of the chapter must vote in favor

the program for it to pass.
Thompson attributed the revocation of Washington and Lee’s
Ipter to risk management concerns and declining grades, not the

A k of the BMP.

SigEp’s national minimum required grade point average is 2.5.
an Dawn Watkins said that Washington and Lee’s chapter met
minimum required GPA.

“We were by no means in danger of falling below the minimum,”

" lby said. ~

Professor David Peterson became SigEp’s academic advisor in 2000.
went to dinner at the house once a semester. Peterson was also
Iilable to give academic advice to any of the brothers who requested it.

 

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

NG-TUM

The student voice of Washington and Lee University since 1897

ZCDES revokes W&L charter, new frat ay

“There were a number of bright members and good students in
SPE,” Peterson said.

Colby said Washington and Lee’s chapter participates in many

campus activities and is involved in the community.
The brothers held a Toys for Tots drive last year and bowled with
the Lexington Special Olympics team. The chapter also has brothers
on the swim team, tennis team, cross country and track teams, and
baseball team.

They also belong to academic societies, work for student pub-
lications, serve as dorm counselors, peer counselors, peer tutors,
pre—orientation leaders, and participate in Mock Convention.
Allegations of alcohol abuse were also made against the chapter.

“Did we throw parties? Yes. Did we abuse alcohol? No,” Colby
said. “The fact that Alpha Delta Phi is willing to take our brother-
hood as one of its chapters is indicative of the fact that the brothers
did nothing to provoke the revocation of its SigEp charter.”

Sophomore Adam McAllister is trying to remain positive about his
fratemity’s situation, “We’re still having a good time, but it stinks to not
be able to live with everyone in the house. We’re working on having a
good fall and getting the Alpha Delts here in the winter,” he said.

Despite any questions over accusations against the chapter,
the university has no control over the closing of the SigEp chapter.
According to the Student Handbook, a fraternity must be in good
standing with its nationals in order to remain on campus.

The IFC must now take a vote in order to approve bringing
Alpha Delta Phi to campus. If approved, the new members of Alpha
Delta Phi will not be able to take the old SigEp house.

SigEp nationals holds the lease to the house and will keep it in
case it comes back to campus in several years.

Colby said that even if the IFC does not vote to accept Alpha Delta
Phi, they will still exist on campus.

“Whether or not the university recognizes Alpha Delta Phi as an
official Washington and Lee fraternity, Alpha Delta Phi will recognize
our brotherhood as a legitimate Alpha Delta Phi chapter,” Colby said.

Dean Watkins said Alpha Delta Phi could possibly be violating
the Comity of the North American Interfratemity Conference (NIC) if
it allows former SigEp members to join its fraternity. The NIC does
not allow one fraternity to receive members from another fraternity.

Colby said that the former members of Washington and Lee’s
chapter are no longer afﬁliated with SigEp, referring to the letter that
SigEp nationals sent to parents this summer. The letter said that the

WELCOME FROSH

BY KATIE HOWELL
EDITORIAL DIRECTOR

Spring Term background

VOLUME CV1, NO.”
MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 8, 20

PHI

charter in Lex

3'

  

JEB BROOKS / The Ringtu
FALLING OUT OF LEX. Sigma Phi Epsilon has fallen from Lexington and hope:
land at “Fallout” as Alpha Delta Phi. The “Alpha-Delts,” as they wish to be call
are currentlyin the process of attempting to rush freshmen without the benefr
an official chapter house. Instead, they plan to take advantage of offtamj
houses like this one on Washington Street.

members could achieve alumni status after graduation. But Col
said the former members will not try to become alumni.

“What everyone needs to understand is that we are not cre
ing a new fraternity on campus,” Colby said. “But rather continui
a brotherhood under different greek letters.”

Board to determine new calendar by 2004

Spring Term’s fate still in question after months of debate

heldlastspringtodiscusstheissues.TheacademicyearendedwI
outaﬁnal answerontheﬁ1t1neofWashingtonandLee’s calenda
Recent developments

A decision will be made about Washington and Le

A.

‘'1.

~(

-4 ' ’ ' ' In Elms / Ta Ring-twz1Pbi
CAUTION, CONSTRUCTION AHEAD. Freshmen arrived to ﬁnd the Campus almost out
from under construction. Some workers remain in the new John W Elrod Univer-
sity Commons as well as in other buildings wrapping up what was a busy summer

( A for the campus. This year’s freshman class contains 455 freshmen from 44 states and

17 foreign countries. With average SAT scores ranging from 1320 to 1420 and average
ACT scores ranging from 28 to 31, this year’s class certainly makes the cut. Most of
the freshman arrived on Saturday, however many came early to participate in pre-
” orientation week events or athletic camps. The official Freshman Orientation Week
{. Program began on Sunday with activities designed to help the incoming students
adjust to Washington and Lee life. Included in the itinerary is an activities fair held in

the BDG quad. The event highlites many student organizations on campus.

JEB BROOKS / The Ring-tum Pbi
WHAT A TASTY MORSEL. Dean of Students, Dawn Watkins and new Dean of Fresh-

man, David Leonard take a moment to enjoy a free hot dog while helping freshmen
move into their rooms during freshmen move—in day. Watkins was chosen in early
june as Dean of Students. She had previoulsy acted as Dean of Freshmen. Leonard
was named in July. He comes to Washington and Lee from Whittier College in
if California. “We couldn’t be more pleased about David Leonard joining our Student
Affairs team. I feel conﬁdent he will serve our freshmen and the W&L community
exceedingly well,” said Dean Watkins.

SpringTermwasbom33 yearsagowhenwashingtonandbee
oﬂicials decided the school needed a change ofpaoe from a tradi-
tional two semester calendar. Professors developed alternative
courses for the six-week term, students took advantage of study
abroadandoﬂ"-campus opportunitiesandeveryone enjoyedGoshert

Tlrreeyearsagotheadrniriistiatiorrﬁrstchallengedﬂieﬁiture
of Spring Term at Washington and Ice. After extensive review and
debate, the ﬁtculty voted l27to 64 in favor of the present three—term
calendar and the system was not challenged again until summer
2(I)2

University President '1homas Burish requested a second study
ofthe calendarlast fall. He said ﬁnancialreasons and faculty course
loadswerethemainissues sparkingthemostrecentstudy. Faculty
and administration spent months studying the beneﬁts and set-
backsofthecunent l2week—12week—sixweekcalendarandpropos-
ing ideas about alternate calendar possibilities.

“W&L won’t be W&L if we have the second-best fac-
ulty,” Burish said last spring. “Over time it’s going to be
difﬁcult to attract the best faculty if we don’t ﬁx things.”

Burish announced last spring that the main issues to be ad-
dressed in future calendar discussions are Washington and Lee’s
status as a stellar liberal arts university, faculty scholarship, fac-
ulty and student recruitment, the Spring Term atmosphere, aca-
demic rigor, coordinating the undergraduate calendar with the law
school‘s that is cunently a two-semester system and reducing
faculty teaching loads to a more acceptable ﬁve courses per year.

Tlueestuderrtfonnnsaswellasnmnerousﬁactiltydebateswere

calendar by the end of this academic year, Executive Co
mittee president Helen Hughes said.

Three calendar reports were released on September 3 ti
discuss the possibilities for three different calendar systems
Washington and Lee. Over the summer faculty committees n
and discussed the pros and cons of each of the three sj
tems—the current 12-12-6 calendar, a traditional two-term i
14 calendar, and a middle-of-the-road 13- 1 3-4 calendar.

“The 13-13-4 calendar is, by its very nature, a comp:
mise to all constituents——students, faculty, and administ
tion,” professors Marcia France and Mike Pleva wrote
their report on the 13-13-4 calendar.

Each report addresses the calendars in relation to 1
issues addressed by Burish last spring. The reports :
posted online at www.wlu.edu/CalendarDiscussion.

Hughes said in a campus-wide email that the und
graduate faculty will discuss the three options on Septe
ber 22and will hold the ﬁrst of two votes on September I
The first vote will eliminate the option with the least vot
Within the next week, the faculty will vote again, selecti
an option that they will present to the Board of Trustt
October 23-25 as the faculty choice along with the other t‘
options. The Board will then decide among the three (
tions by the end of the academic year which system to imp
ment at Washington and Lee. Hughes said if a differr
option than the current 12- 12-6 system is chosen, it will t2
at least two years to come into effect.

W&L administrator resigns
because of sodomy charges

BY ERIN ]UI.IUs
NEWS EDITOR

David Long, Washington and Lee’s vice presi-
dent for university relations, was charged with so-
licitation to commit sodomy and assault and battery
over the summer. Long was arrested in Pennsylvania
on July 30. It’s unclear why Long was charged with
assault.

The charges stemmed from a sting operation on a
Harrisonburg adult bookstore. A Harrisonburg grand
jury indicted Long and 25 other men on 34 charges fol-
lowing a three—month investigation of Harrisonburg Adult
News.

According to a Harrisonburg police news release,
the investigation had utilized undercover work by an
officer inside the store and video surveillance of the
store’s parking lot. The 26 men were indicted on charges
ranging from misdemeanor indecent exposure to sodomy.

Long was arrested in Pennsylvania after crashing into

a parked car. The officer that investigated the crash d
covered the outstanding warrants for Long and arrest
him.

Long, who was head of Washington and Lee’s co
munications, development and alumni relations depa
ments, was placed on administrative leave with pay
July and resigned “for personal reasons” on August i

He worked in fund raising at W&L since 1988. Tr
White, Washington and Lee’s communications direc‘
has called Long a, “valued and dedicated employee” a
said the school is aware of the indictment but does 1
know the facts of the case so it’s, “withholding comm:
and judgment.”

Long lives in Lexington with his wife and thr

sons.

The Supreme Court recently struck down Texa.
anti-sodomy law, however, Virginia’s law against sc
omy has not been repealed. Virginia court has uphc
its sodomy law in cases where the offenses were co:
mitted in public.

 

 

 

-.-. - -.‘ ";-3“..‘W* 
J)3.§.i1.l:}O('*:_‘:(£:f"’;.}Ja-,; ,,.,-,i.uu~e..r
wAt*“**"".““ ..: V   

PAGE,  I 12093

il)ll

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 8, 2003 sq

Jniversity bans music sharing

dministration stops lawsuits before they happen, questions of Honor left up to Executive Committee

BY ANDREW LATIMER AND JEB BROOKS
CONTIBUTING EDITOR AND EDITOR IN CHIEF

On-campus residents in search of free music and movies this week found nothing
)ut frustration as university ofﬁcials enacted measures to stop illicit ﬁle sharing over Wash-
ngton and Lee’s connection to the Internet.

The ban, which is expected to be announced formally by Provost Thomas Williams
JVltl'lll‘l several days, has already affected users of popular “peer-to-peer” applications such
IS KaZaA, iMesh, Morpheus and Audiogalaxy. Currently, special equipment and software
lesigned to analyze data on the school’s network has been set to allow certain types of
rafﬁc, like viewing web pages and sending e-mail, while blocking the offending programs.

The move marks the latest chapter in the school’s struggle with protecting its com-
nunity from an increasingly aggressive nationwide legal assault
)n ﬁle swapping, spearheaded by the Recording Industry Asso-
ziation of America (RIAA) and Motion Picture Association of
America (MPAA). The organizations, which claim billions of dol-
ars in losses due to widespread music and movie piracy, zero in
)n its targets by tracing the addresses of illegal users back to their
nstitutions or Internet service providers, or ISPs.

If contacted by industry lawyers, the university must now
iand over the names of the sharers for prosecution instead of
Jeing left to deal with the problem on its own as it did in past
:ases. By late August, the RIAA had issued over 1,145 subpoe-
ias with dozens being added every day, with ﬁnes as hefty as
517,500 per song illegally distributed. “That’siwhat we’re ner-
/ous about,” said Dean of Students Dawn Watkins, who participated on a six—member ad
ioc cormnittee established by former Provost Larry Boetsch last fall to examine the com-
Jlexities of online rights and ﬁle sharing.

With pressure mounting as the new school year approached, the body recom-
nended complete barring peer—to—peer activity. In an e-mail dated July 28, Director of
Jniversity Computing John Stuckey made it clear that “the stakes are too high not to do
ivhat we can, even at the cost of a likely howl of protest.”

A random survey of the freshman dormitories revealed confusion and indigna-
ion about university actions. With no ofﬁcial notice, word about the ban spread through
:ampus at first as a rumor when all attempts to trade or search for ﬁles ended in failure.

THE STAKES ARE TOO HIGH NOT TO DO WHAT
WE CAN, EVEN AT THE COST OF A LIKELY
HOWL OF PROTEST

---- DIRECTOR OF UNIV. COMPUTING JOHN
STUCKEY

“Now I’ve lost one of my biggest reasons for moving back to the Hill,"
said one upperclassman who asked to remain anonymous. Some looked at the
effort as an extreme tactic to save university bandwidth. Dawn Watkins re-
gards the latest policy revision as motivated by the potential of serious legal
threats.

‘The users are the ones being held liable. We just want to make sure that this doesn’1
happen to our students. The use of such (sharing) software has been banned from faculty anc
staff computers for at least a year; now students face that same ban,” Watkins said.

Whether or not ﬁle sharing is an honor violation is a matter that will be left to the
Executive Committee, which so far has not indicated its views on the issue. Yet the change-
is sure to prompt campus discussion on “media theﬁ.”

In a recent announcement by the RIAA, amnesty has been promised for
downloaders who agree to delete the ﬁles that they share anc
agree to no longer share files.

For now, Professor Sarah Wiant, professor of copy-
right law at the Washington and Lee School of Law, and Uni-
versity Computing have advice for network users. Among their
are deleting illegal music ﬁles, disabling the sharing features 01
KaZaA and other peer-to-peer programs and consulting the
documents at the Electronic Frontier Foundation’s website at
ww.eff.org.

According to HelpDesk manager John White, students whc
bring their computers for service will not be policed. “We can’t
expect people to come in if they think that we’re going to turr
them in,” he said. Only if the sharing software affects the perfor-
mance of the computer will it be dealt with, he said.

The data analysis equipment that blocks ﬁle trading, dubbed a “packet shaper,” is
also not intended to be intrusive. While it can determine the type of data being sent over
the network, it does not scrutinize the speciﬁc ﬁles or names passing through the university’:
servers. Last fall, the packet shaper was implemented to keep peer—to—peer traders frorr
swamping Washington and Lee’s connection. -

Off-campus students who do not rely on the university’s Internet service will
not fall under the jurisdiction of the Provost’s decision or the packet shaper. Addi-
tionally, students who purchase songs through legal download services like
BuyMusic.com and the Apple iTunes Music Store are unaffected.

".

TALKEACK: Fteshmen,whatdo you think of Washington andLee, so fat?        

   

“I think pre-orientation in _ _ , ,
going out. Orientation hasn t

 

“It’s been a lot of ﬁm. lt’s good “IVS been a lot Offun and

 

   

“It’s been eat so far. The
campus is beautiﬁil and all the

“So ar, I ve en] oed i nd
everyone seems to be really

arti 1 t.” I’ met a lot of ‘ .
p 6;; aWri$na(‘)Sﬂ1g£'(f’7a quite been too much fim.” ve pe0p1e_,, mce ﬁiendly.” kids seem really cool.”
-Stuart Hurst ‘07 , -Morgan Hill ‘O7 -ChI‘lS Tittlﬁ, ‘07
-Jenny Hau 07 ’

 PHI

Editor in chief
issociate Editor
News Editor
Opinions Editor
'ts & Life Editor
Sports Editor
rt. Sports Editor
Photo Editor

Jeb Brooks
Kyle Wass

Erin Julius
Caley Anderson
Megan Morgan
Allison Perry
John Hyland
Cody Gabbord
iitorial Director Katie Howell
Paul Seifert
Thomas Worthy
Henry Grimball

iness Managers

culation Director

re Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays
ring the undergraduate school year at
ashington and Lee University, Lex-
gton, Virginia. The Washington and
:e Publications Board elects the Edi-
rs in chief, but The Ring-tum Phi is
herwise independent.

re Ring-tum Phi welcomes all respon-
)le submissions and letters. All submis-
ms must be e-mailed to phi@wlu.edu
in the University Center mailbox by 5
In. Friday to appear in the following
:ek’s edition. The Ring-tum Phi reserves
3 right to edit submissions for content
d length. Letters and columns do not
‘cessarily reﬂect the opinion of The
ng-tum Phi Editorial Board. Advertis-
g does not reﬂect the opinions of The
ng-tum Phi or its staff. This newspa-
r observes current court deﬁnitions of
el and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
ailing Address: University Commons
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, Virginia 24450
'treet Address: University Commons
Room 341
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Telephone: (540) 462-4060
Fax: (540) 462-4059
Email.‘ phi@wlu.edu
http://phi.wlu.edu

Join the tradition

Subscription rate: $40

Call x4060, or

|CONTACT US:

 

Your Community Food Cooperative
Where Good Food &
Good People Meet

LET US TAKE OVER WHERE MOM TOOK OFF WITH OUR
HEALTHY SNACKS, AND EASY TO PREPARE MEALS THAT ARE
SO TASTY YOU WON'T EVEN REALIZE THEY'RE GOOD FOR

YOU.

WE HAVE A LARGE SELECTION OF ORGANIC, NATURAL,
HEALTHY SNACKS, ENERGY BARS, CHIPS, CRACKERS, JUICES,
WATERS AND BULK SNACKS. WE ALSO CARRY INDIVIDUAL
SERVING SIZES OF FROZEN ENTREES, FROZEN PIZZAS AND

INSTANT SOUPS.

OUR COUNTER CULTURE CAFE SERVES DELICIOUS,

REASONABLY PRICED VEGETARIAN MEALS.

MONDAY THRU THURSDAY
11am-2pm

ASK US ABOUT STUDENT MEMBERSHIPS

HEALTHY FOODS MARKET
110 W. WASHINGTON STREET
LEXINGTON, VA 24450
VISITU:

—_.A 4;. .-_..

tr

T‘,

‘V

 

  
   
   
 
   
         
          
       
    
    
          

 

lONDAY, SEPTEMBER 8, 2003  PAGE 3
Work for the Phi, it’s the right thing to do

_ :¥<‘ *  '
 
~%h4..,..<’«

  ‘ Positions      
, The College Town Shop
Open 11] all g 1 111 w. Nelson St.  

A/lAS7EI?CAl?D - \/ISA - AMERICAN EXPRESS — HOUSE CHARGES

 

New order ‘

31638 Of the °*
Men ’s Patch Madras Shorts & Ladies’ Patch Skirts

"”"     0% IIFF

Men’s Suits and Sportcoats
 and

Ladies Sweaters
email us at phi@wlu. edu or

A (Excluding Blue Blazers)

call us at x4060

Our way of welcoming
all our sfudenfs!

Sale Through September 16

   Serving the community since 1926.

Watch for other upcoming specials in fufure issues.

U“WSitYSP°“W€ar Virginia pial Semester

 

your downtown location for
1'

W&L apparel and gifts

New Exclusive Football Polo Shirt
for the 2003 season

15 W. Washington Street

_4_ Lexington, Virginia 
540_464_3000  Mwatha mast olymxsaiirga  an For mm immwion and appkieation:
- - § making imemaaia.  calm  4' 
I! wWw.un1vers1tysportwear.com  naming  weak“ and an ma $3“ at .  {.3 mm!‘ swung of smmiwu

      
     
 
      
 

E _V; 

 Virginie aulitécs,  .

 Ewelimlwvéiigtiﬁah waiaaa ah dwimaae
: azecitaniem at 3  svmimi wézise omuimzing
.  yuur£t:IE5eao1za[znEl»I.ix1;eaa:§4i:stl1:r:;1.g’1:e1xse
The Ph1- ; wukavs:a:4aecmmza::am1m1kmsay—a:u
It’s Juuuust Right.  ea:nas1.aai34ra:e:rst:zl1mit;m:1

       
   
   
   

 

Fixm  .A.m;1nta¥ 5'11.
Vining:-Cnﬁicazmbla

 
      
  
  
     
  
    
   

39 West ‘Wu/néingma $treet
in Ilismxic Dawamwn

  
 
  

 
  
 
 
  
  

ph i@wl u. ed u

 
  
   

     

 
  
  
  
  
 
 

 
  
    
   

 “"6” @.:1c2cz«:'3rfz’?"//_ ﬂare/(rm C‘39xz.;.9(?z'gy
4 ‘ Pamelain ,‘  Welcome Back
'I\ fesmse ‘ Student Care Packages
. {3=i.‘:ﬁ3‘SS0l‘l&
E3 5; . V  '
n.m§.§§i§'é§?§ Free Campus Delivery
”“*‘8*"**‘3'”"““8 ‘11°l'.,3"..‘a:.§,°6?.'.‘¢?,$;,‘.i?£22?’
 “""""'°"""""‘ www.cocoamilI.com
a:;§eee1;e:v:*;: 115 West Nelson Street — 540-464-8400
§Z§.§”$;i 3""£;?§§ Mail Order Anywhere

   

 

P 1 '11~IFRD~ﬁ,?vii>}Il

     

MONDAY, SEPIFMBER 8, 2003 L\ '-

 
 

 W '_3"c"FFE2$:>/J

$3
wA 9'}-/h /A/6"T'D/J

   
   

1U

o><;

ﬂA~NJ>OL77H

     

7159 raw

VA!-NE L ’

    

?’A—w, 5!/F5729’

 

% ,. [ONDAY. SEPTEMBER 8, 2003

‘1\% ‘ ‘
: ’\\____   "f4km'5 CZ“ 12.»

PAGE 5

‘ct r-
U1

;;ﬂLL.l

W

3...

 

1-,

|.....

L-

/\

/4

1--——.—-jg:

*““\»

£¢.c3bvru. L..'b~r4-v‘9/-

IIIIET
11‘.‘II1'k l

341.614 cg, C644 '/'0V’

   
 
 

  
  

7'I‘K€l3?’: Wrr 3“.
2,45 2:,;»«» A//- 43:-7»
KA /aw» /’//‘~ gx agw 6%‘
K2 z»w~6~‘;»~~ 2»! Scan M

3_9Tr 3ef4.771e7‘A-  .
X '3’ C'[u‘ ‘P6;

 

__ _ ¢'KT97-’l!a0P'~ 7»? :44 z-,«,»~ 7>u+«—
LA IMAM] W @K3 77“‘.*“f/‘$'5”“' KK P1-’qa/4.-K4//‘-f;m~..
-rr/<A W‘ Zrrr/1//4~ 77$ ¢?.‘&r‘-7712
.1.//Ierg, 7'9 3» -far . . . ;f§w“:%5.dmS
F007?   .4?!/nezz. P‘/rzdzss
YGI Dg')~\,;ys.o$ @ A/viuvbcunis  6:’;’>°,f:,:._f::7“4
1@f 'Davuz.-kilo; C'o”¢2‘ TM“ 51“?  m“:-fs?:.):"7t’;nr¢:r(:4-r‘3/
‘f@] §a4mw @ 7%-¢r~2~"° F‘ao7'W£A£
TED! CW 5/“*2 %~*'‘'- /‘4"’** E? PW 4»-1‘sww 5%:/ea. 52m. ('0-
K9! */av/v“y5~/< /4«~r"—¢*’ /I4/zcurs C2 FAN/A/6*’  
3/ F73 §3<¢ ‘W1: 52 /na Z§{7L— 6‘ Univ. C’/(anus
@ Cm» /Wu ogg ;,,,.,,.;;/.,.-n.r3,z.ars*- co;-'F££
$1 7:«.,,+ /Me. .32, MM/W; ;A.;,/,/.;r @ ;,,,;.,,+M airs”
'’ \//r;—"~"’-— guru M1 3&4 X §‘L.'/‘ﬂdMf6M;' ﬂwéov 721%:

 /\xA 1.954, (J.{,l/,l«. 2¢£ aye-:7Ajz;».-4..
@711 ?A»'¢£m».'z>u+». 14/19 /4,. ,4/,.4.z<..z<..

 

'|lll:=.X\l.\(I~"iE,h’»l Fiﬁ xx

.)AGE 6  MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 8, 200 ,

   

   
  
 

  

 

    

 

 

 

 

Marlene ’ s Hairstylist
RedKen Ambasador Salon
25 N. Main Street ,_ x
Welcome Back Students 9% ii 
Lmclngizoxifi ’l%?i:'i3.:~.,_,, I
VOted  f€11OW  s4o..usa.c.ses 1'
students as the ”best bet in W"°'“*""°"“*“”?“°‘?’”“ff“"*"“ 
Lexington” for all your  3
hair-care needs. ‘
Specialist in coloring and Aluin-Egnnig , jjng, i‘
i  Services FINE MEN'S APPAREL
. ‘ . - 4
_a1S01I1<=1}1§1e_CutSr. L:::.;¥;:Ya:l:;2:::2:a,
faclal and b1l<m1 waxing, ‘54°’ “°3'53"3
o o i R
manrcuresand pedlcures.
A   of RedKen and WELCOME W&L CLASS of 2007!
. "V
Paul Mltchell products’ Come in and see our selection of:
We also cary Bed Head _ North Face Nogﬁi g
and Sexy Hair Concepts. -ff°°Sted v_ T 5,; “E
- meyar mes 1es ° ,_
Call us for fancy styles for _ Suits & Blue Blazers mm 4
' ' - Tuxedo Rentals & Sales
Speclal OCCaS1OnS° -Johnston-Murphy, Bass, Rockport ,
463-6003 I — W&L Belts, Ties, Sandals, Jewelry
Wa1k'in5 Vvelcprne ~ Visa MC Student Charge ’<
Guys and Grrls
Since 1963
11 9 Owner: Alvin Carter *
Varieties of Pasta, Pizzas, A
Calzones and Stromboles
 )(
640 N. Lee Highway . Employees Needed ‘ ‘ 
464-5500 Cooks andWa1tressesApp1yW1thm  C A NC   K
. epai rs ~ ontacts
aﬂeuag   Dame,    
‘ ‘V   COOL FRAMES!
. »
W49 allmulaacm HOT LENSES!
B I, I
{I 264-D063  S:a(yOI"I’1 school W  '   . >’
Tosﬂirzgheflnimﬂzin .1‘-J’-:94’-J3‘ Mamgenunti EE . _ , E E
20 years serving Flockbndge ‘
*%'cgﬂ¢;fgg,qng{pﬁ$jygﬂg§§' at 203 N. M:Ei3r’13-E‘;t£:t3t, Lexington ‘L
newoptic@lexﬁrst.com
"1
X
136VamerLane
he ultimate study tool - COFFEE.  A  L°’;‘6‘;%§‘;‘;gVA
Try ours. It's shade grown & " ‘ A
orgonlocustomer quote: “Am! Em, Fwm
_ : ’ allowed to /ustsfand here and smell - d V . _
'  " your coffee? You don’fmlnd, do you?” 3“ ‘99'°5 .«
. portable, quick eats. ,
No Insecﬂcldes or pesﬂcldes.
Customer quote: “You can eat
- these, and they won '1‘ hurt you. . _. . . ,
' ﬁnal: Food- good friends, good times. ’ "R9 man” 0 food‘ 0 Blowvgu; stltlﬁllvglgorélvtt ge1::i;?/[axing ,x
We have all manner of chips and dips, 9 Straightening and Curly Perms, etc
. sodas and solsas, Juices, woter, you home it. -
 COOL SPRING  t
  Q   Q  ' 8-6 M-T F8-5 Ample Free Parking
;\'ul.'n'ul. Uiguisir uaul Gollr.-2.-"r-l Irma‘ Y I
80030 i ,L 'ngt .v (54o)4o34>5oo . .
(lL\1lfehxfNi(<:fl‘tiSefrle::::l<te>r)i!dgeOl5:1nn/‘er’s Coop) The R m g-tu m Phz
Our food tastes ood because it is ood. V0ted the beStl313C€ t0 W01'k 0“ C3mP11S- ‘ I

 

J

*0 VIONDAY, sgnnnn 8, 2003  PAGE7
Salerno Restaurant G“ Dirty C1°‘h"*S?

* 1 1 5 South Jefferson Street the“ get

* Lexington, VA   ' °
540-463-5757 Umverslty

Cleaners

,. ASKAW  Great Service
* Our Vanety , ,
F1rst—Rate Quality

   
 

_.»..' ‘ _0fGreatTasting
Italian Dinners! ' [)ine-|n

  
 
 
  

Cany-out 7N rm ff
0 e erson
'4‘ Catered street dry cleaning,
463-3622 laundry, alterations

I ALLYOUCANEAT
  E Spaghtetti ;w/;Garlic Bread  
R " Monday"5pm  — 9pm — .$ 3.00

. WEDNESDAYONLY

   
 

§"i§§§l?$

P:=Wze?AzExnn::e:;e h45£?'¥”H%i?aI3 5-4lﬂ~451~3¢47

   

Grew». L;-:m=%;au£:e Emerge;

  Large Cheese Plzzea" 354-95   WELCOME BACK STUDENTS!
* WELCOME FERESHMEN   Bssr or LUCK Fan THE FALL SEASON!

Come by and see Skip, Connie and Vlﬁlson at the NEW LOCATION!

SKIP THOMPSON’S

WELCOME BACK UPPERCLASSMEN

 

       
 
 
    

 

 
     

 
       
    
  
 

    

       

  
 
 

 
  

  
      
   

           
    
    

     

  
 
 

 

I.
This space is dedicated to the
memory of Colonel Sanders of  E R S H O P
“ SE1-L SPRING BREAK TRIPS Km We miss y°“’ b“ddy' 17 s. Randolph 0 Lexington, VA
ALL THE FUN 5‘ ALL THE PROTECTION ' Open Mon., Tues., Thurs., & Fri. 8 a.m. - 5 p.m.
AMERICAN EXPRESS W°RLDWIDE Love 5 Sat. 8 a.m. - noon; Closed Wed. & Sun.
GUARANTEED BEST BUY ’ ’ ’ _ ’
" 1 FREE TRIP FOR EVERY 10 PAID The Ri”8"“m Phi 540-463 5954
OR CA$H STARTING WITH FIRST BOOKING
MAKE YOUR SPRING BREAK ExxTREME . , y _
ExxTREME vAcATIoNs, INC. . 1 0 0 7    p I Ih V -
R‘ 1-300-335-2250 0   
g NV” M‘s~  * W J ~o 
K . :2 .34.‘. ‘ ‘H A»
Tﬁe Cuttmg Come Work for The   »  
. . :3 A i 
K £.d— Ring-tum Phi, we —~_ ‘ . 5;. J
cge won’t let you down!   E’.
Compkte Hair Care for ' .- 
«t 91/[en cznc{‘Women :  I   ' ‘ 
Styfe Cuts '::‘  : ., E , -=~—~°-W-“**‘ : _ 
C[ipperCuts 1, i  A 3 : ‘L. ,‘ 
3‘ - .- . » . I . .. . . 
t / .
Compfete (Body Care PHI ' ~  
Manicure OR  .- 
r’ q,ed—l-Cure 1..t-zmzrimn x'mcm:..\ -~’ _f
V 4 W , DIE E-’0U:\’D{iL‘ rm _ ‘(J _
cvgmg  
 W  St. - I .. R-J.‘ ..........-v~~~-v.<-1....-4... .».~¢.a». . I .. ‘I4 C‘3‘!!Q2E;"fP3!‘D .'-'?'o'596iKl1 HLRWR-:9I.'.“ I 
. Lexington, ‘V/I . \ ‘ I\'WITUT\‘2;s;/'”?2¢'it fVT§}',?F‘j}“‘"ij');}" ﬁgp My jp'“g;;g;g§  
;_ 4639588 ‘ y . ,_ ‘b ‘V! .’   :\  ‘  I  
C&>se to Campus _ " " E
Q‘rqﬁzssiona[.S'cz[on witﬁa ph1@W1u-edu  - r   " _ V
A Q’e1’so11a[‘1"0uc/i! X4060 I E ' ‘ ‘ ' '0 AV ‘ _' y 
’*  ;.fa_dse§}  ,5
'f3="$h’oes;v'Clotning
» 5???? .A°°°_§5.??3°3 3}
I .

BRED,lNC.

 

 

   

16 wasr WASHINGTON STREET 
  LEXINGTON, VIRGINIA 624450 %  

    

 

 

 

on 8

'l'HE‘. RlNG~TUM Pin

AST WORD

EMAIL-Pn1@winn1
MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 8, 2003

Welcome to the new Washington and Lee

BY TIM SMITH
Al§X1liFll{A'llI)llD

Welcome, incoming freshmen, to the ﬁfth great-
; party school in the country. Welcome to the
tion’s 12th ranked liberal arts college. Welcome to
: most revered Greek system in all of academia.
elcome to Lex Vegas. It’s great to have you all here
the NEW W&L.

That’s right - this isn’t the W&L you expected.
lis isn’t the W&L you meant to apply to. This is
lifferent school. Confused?? Let me explain.

Washington and Lee is a school absolutely
rothered in rich tradition. It’s a beloved place to
tually every person who once walked the Colon-
de. But the W&L they remember is not the school
u will know. W&L is changing. It is changing as
u read this article.

Change has always haunted W&L. This is a
100l that thrives on tradition, depending on the
st to give us our academic identity. Without those
ditions, W&L has no identity. But tradition and
ange are rarely compatible things, and so
rogress” in Lexington has typically not been a
erished process. When you rely on the past so
avily, it’s tough to face the future’ with a smile.

After a cheating scandal, W&L left big-time
rletics behind. It’s tough to imagine UVA or Tech

Maryland playing at Wilson Field, but it hap-
ned. From what I’ve heard, that was a tough
ange to swallow. Co—education was another hot
.ue, but in the 1980s, that change was also made.
lat brings us to the still current issue that has
zked Lexington for the past 6 months - the won-
rful Spring Term question.

Spring Term will eventually say goodbye. Any-
e who does not recognize this fact is in denial.
re decision has probably already been made — it’s
lt the matter of when it all ﬁnally plays out. It will

a tough change to experience, as well. But even
)re disturbing, perhaps, is the foreboding signs
rrounding our beloved fraternities. Over the sum-
in our school’s chapter of Sig Ep was removed
rm campus. And though the university played

part in kicking Sig Ep off, and may in fact have
ed to save that fraternity, the loss may carry some

implications about the future of fratemities in Lex-
ington. -

The signs are not good. The new alcohol poli-
cies deprived us of tailgating and drinking games,
and while that change seems irrelevantly minor, it
was certainly a big deal at the time.

The demise of Spring Term will also poten-
tially take away

certainly some parents will be certainly proud) are
naturally not as excited. And besides that party
issue, they are deﬁnitely some other rankings on
that list that might make university ofﬁcials a bit
nervous. Lots of beer. Lots of liquor. Overwhelm-
ingly homogenous student population. To an ad-
ministrator who wants to ensure a healthy positive

Freshman Facebook and see that more than half 1
guys already have frat hair before they even get
Lex. Furthermore, we know W&L will deliver. We
the alums - they all wanted to come here too. Tl
had a great time, and that’s why they will continue
give donations and keep close ties with the schc
Sure, we party hard. So hard that a schr

academic environment,

some our favorite
traditions - Derby
Days, Buffalo
Creek, and other
events could be ca-
sualties to the cal-
endar change. And
of course there is
that beautiful new
building, the Com-
mons, the new hub
of campus. Cer-
tainly, the building
is a necessity, but
there’s also not a
doubt in my mind
that many of the
powers—that-be
hope that it will
serve as a fraternity
deterrent, a place

good things.

these can’t look like

ceive to be our faults).
And so the school will
make changes to make

But, and here’s the
point I’ve been working
towards, Where Are Our
Faults? Despite those
potentially negative
rankings, W&L man-

‘with 1600 kids can beat out the likes of Flori‘
Texas, Sewanee and all the others. Meanwhile,
academics, we blow most schools out of the wat

It’s onlynaturalthatthe We are receiving an unrivaled education in 1
university shouldtry to midst of unrivaled weekend debauchery. And N
improve on our school’s love it, -I
faults (orwhatthey per- So no wonder we get pissed when we sense i

“Swarthmoreiﬁcation” of W&L. If we wanted
go anywhere else, chances are, most of us wou
This is the school of our dreams, and we do

Our School more maI‘ket- want the dream to end.

able t0 the World, more But it will end. Change is coming. I
e0InpetitiVe With 0UIri- nobody’s fault - there is nobody to blan
vals, and amore attrac- Burish and the head honchos don’t want
tlVe plaee t0 get an ed11- change any more than we do. They just 5
Cation. things slightly differently, more in terms A

dollar signs and practical academic eﬁicien:
That’s what they are paid to do - to make t
decisions that we don’t understand. No, the
is no one to blame. It’s simply a product oft
way we do things here. We hold on as long
we possibly can, until the last possible SE

Where neW Students aged to jump One Spot ond, until the change ﬁnally goes through. .

can go to escape and become the 12th we should,

the shadows of Red best liberal arts school I had the opportunity to hear a certain W6

Square and in all the land. Even ofﬁcial speak a few weeks ago, and he defend

D3VidS0n Park more, those Same our position, as I have. To be a ridiculous par
0 b v i o u s 1 y , Princeton Review school and an unrivaled academic institutior

none of these fac-
tors I’ve listed di-
rectly contribute to
the future demise of

The good old days. The past carries many fond memo-
ries for W&L alums. Beer on the collonnade was just one
of the surprises our not—so—distant past holds.

Fun PHOTO / The Ring-tum Phi

our Greek system,
but with the recent removal of Sig Ep, I can’t help
noticing a bad taste in my mouth.

Finally, there are those pesky Princeton Re-
view rankings that were just published. To be a
student in the 5th best party school in the country
is a great thing. Administrators and parents (though

students.

99% of people at W&L want to be here. We
love it here. That’s why its so homogenous - not
because we don’t market to minorities or because we
are racially exclusive. It’s because everyone here
wants to be here. It’s why you can look through the

rankings have us listed
on some of the most
positive lists. Out of all
those schools, we are #8
for having the happiest

“a pretty damn good thing,” he said. I say i
not just a good thing - its’s paradise. I’m a :
nior this year, and already I dread leaving Le
ington, before classes have even started. I
sure many of my fellow seniors feel the sar
way.

So to you incoming freshmen, I welcor
you once again. You have much to look fr
ward to, but much to fear as well. This schc
is changing. Don’t let it change without
ﬁght.

.’rinceton Review releases academic, social rankings

BY JEB Brrooxs
EDITOR l'N CHIEF

The Princeton Review recently released its rankings for the Best
1 Colleges. Washington and Lee received top marks in several cat-

ories.

According to the rankings, Washington and Lee University stu-
nts are taught well, socially active and politically conservative. The
rvey says that students at the University have very caring profes-
rs, miss Republican President Ronald Reagan and consume a lot of

xohol.

The Review uses open ended questions to gain further insight into
mpus life. Washington and Lee is described by one of its own stu-
nts as a “little utopian society” that offers “really small classes” and
‘strong sense of community among the students, faculty and admin-

ration.”

Another student says that Washington and Lee has “a stu-
nt body like a country club: white, well-off, Republican.”
re same student goes on to say that, “My little Neon is parked
~xt to a Lexus, a Saab and a brand new SUV — in the freshman

t!”

One other student states that, “‘Work hard, drink hard’ is our

Jtto.”

The Review uses current students to rank their schools in cat-
ories ranging from Parties to Politics. 106,245 students were
kedi to rate their own institutions based on the 2002-2004 aca-

mic year.

In addition to its rankings, the Princeton Review is well known
r its test preparation courses, admission and education services,

d books.

N hat the hell’s a Ring-tum Phi?

re grand old traditions and early Washington and Lee newspaper scandals: reprinted from The Ring-tum Phi of Tuesday, Dec. 5, 1967.

Back in the days when telephones (all 68 of
:m in Lexington, an advertisement boasted) were
own as “up-to-date electric call bells,” back when
‘aling a bell—clapper was called “a naughty-one’s
rlic,” in the same year that the New York Post
nferred on this city (really) the title “Athens of
: Sout ” — there came into being a little newspa-
r published weekly, “by the students for the
ishington and Lee University community,” and
med after the most popular of that University’s
)tball cheers: “Ring-tum Phi.”

“Coincident with the administration of Presi-
nt Wilson begins the career of a new publication
Washington and Lee, The Ring-tum Phi. The
rig-tum Phi is a weekly journal and presents a
:asing appearance. It meets a distinct need in
2 University and relieves the Collegian of what
merly has tended only to clog and retard.”

terary Magazine

“The Collegian is primarily a literary magazine,
:1 when the editors heretofore were forced to cram
3 limitless number of locals, they always bewailed
: dismal incongruity. Henceforth, we rejoice to
1, the Collegian is freed from matters of this kind,
d will both be compelled to try to serve two ends

“Gentlemen of The Ring-tum Phi, you have
our best wishes. Gentlemen of The Ring-tum Phi,
we give our sincerest thanks. Students of W. and
L., we congratulate you on the advent of the long
needed weekly!”

The year was 1897. The Southern Collegian
was still a high-quality magazine, being published
by the Graham Literary Society. The Ring-tum Phi
was designed to be a somewhat lighter, perhaps
even ribald, complement to the Collegian.

Eighteen and ninety-seven. The year the foot-
ball coach had to send away for a special noseguard
“to protect the colossal proboscis which accompa-
nies Mr. Fitzhugh’s countenance.” (“Mr.” Fitzhugh
was a student; everybody then was Mister or Doc-
tor of Professor or Reverend.)

Scandalous Verse

Eighteen and ninety-seven. The year of the
Great Hell Scandal. It seems the very ﬁrst editor-in-
chief, George.Houston, in the fourth issue of the
neophyte newspaper, published a column of “Foot-
ball Songs,” one of which was included with this
verse:
“Each other’s back, boys
“Has got a knack, boys,

ll

“Round the end.

“And it’s a sin, sir,

“For Oberlin (a W&L player), sir,

“To buck the V.M.I. boys’ line so awfully hard.
“Then join the yell, boys,

“And yell like hell, boys,

“Sure enough.

“To W&L U., boys,

“And foot-ball, too, boys,

“Let’s give a rousing, rumbling, roaring football
yell.

“Ring-tum Phi, stickeri bum,

“&c, &c.”

Well, hell broke loose. The next issue,
an incensed letter-to-the-editor writer (we
told you things haven’t changed much)
said:

“There appeared in the columns of The Ring-
tum Phi, last week, a song which, to the very
thoughtful person had very little to recommend
it. . .The only thing that I can see that would have
recommended it to the editorial eye is the little
smack of naughtiness which makes the ﬁrst
rhyme in the last verse.

“The Editor seems to be ﬁlled with pride to
even know the author; he puts the verse in the

editorial commending it as ‘especially
good.’ He says the words tire the voice a
little.

“Now everyone, who knows anything of the
subject, knows that the sound of that ‘h’ has a
very rasping effect on the vocal chords. How
much better it would have been had the line read:
‘And yell right well, boys.’ It would have
sounded better, been easier on the voice, and
would have saved the writer and Editor from
showing their weakness.

“It can be admitted that, to some eyes, there is
something worthy of admiration in a dark, purple
crime, but to bow before a sinlet like this is weak-
ness personiﬁed.

“In the future let me suggest that the Editor
follow the path of virtue. He will not only ﬁnd it
pleasant, but may keep himself from showing his
lack of taste.

_R”

Well, “R.” intimidated Mr. Houston. Who
wouldn’t be intimidated if he were editing a brand-
new paper that nobody, not even students, had
ever heard of, named The Ring-tum Phi; and some-
body came along and accused him of printing sinlets

b‘

‘I’

 

 

 
   

I

v!
a

= vi

1*-

Mock Con

» BY ELIZABETH ECKMAN AND ERIN JULIUS

» . STAEFWRIII<1tANDl\lEWSEIXIOR

. r, p

Washington and Lee’s annual Fall Convoca-

‘(J tion took place on September 10 at 5:30 in front of
Lee Chapel. President Burish welcomed the new

students and pledged support to the new faculty.

’ A ; His hope for this academic year is that it will be,

“at once exceptionally full, important, challeng-
V‘ ing and fulﬁllir1g,” Burish said. In his opening
remarks, Burish also lightheartedly referred to
Washington and Lee’s rise in national rankings
as, “pleasing, annoying and largely irrelevant.”

Buri sh also announced that the school would
begin an evaluation of several academic compo-
nents, including the general education require-
ments, minors, freshmen seminars and senior
capstones. He also made clear that a major goal

If I for this academic year would be making the Com-
mons a success.
William Connelly, professor of politics, gave
the Convocation address. His subject was the
- , 2004 Mock Democratic Convention, for which he
is the faculty advisor. Connelly described his
role with the Convention as, “limited and pas-
sive,” stressing that it is a student-rurr event.
, Connelly praised the nature of the Conven-
tion as being, “inherently non—partisan. . .students
put aside conviction for an accurate prediction.”
‘ He also quoted TIME Magazine as calling Wash-
A ington and Lee’s Mock Convention, “the biggest
and boomingest of all such student enterprises.”

He highlighted the past successes of the
Mock Convention, noting that there have been
17 of 22 accurate predictions, and only one mis-
take since 1948.

Again focusing on the student participation
with the Convention, Connelly said that by last
year, there were already 350 students involved in

.4, it, and that by the time Mock Convention week-
end is here, about 90% of the student body will
be participating.

WASHINGTONIAND LEE UNIVERSITY

NG-TUM

The student voice of Warlymgton and Lee Um'I/emy time 7897

| I | |IMONDAY, SEI’1‘EMBERl5, 2003

 

VOLUME CV1, N0.VI I

the subj ect at Sept. 10 Convocation

.se..»—....,...,..,.

Connelly then praised certain traits of the Con-
vention, saying that it is, “as inclusive as possible,”
and that it is truly, “political science in action.”

He also reminisced about noteworthy events that
have taken place during past Conventions. A speaker
died instantly after speaking in 1956 and President Bill
Clinton played the saxophone for students in 1988.

“ School adds thirty-sixth major

- 1” BY CATHERINE SWAN
‘ SI:iE~‘Wl<IIEIt

Due to student interest and the growing 3
value of science in today’s world, Washington
and Lee added its 36th major, biochemistry, to

K the academic catalog. _

In order for. the biochemistry major to be-
come a reality, the proposal had to first be evalu-
ated by the Committee on Courses and Degrees,
which is made up of administration, faculty, and
students.

After the committee approved the proposal, the
faculty was required to take a vote.Once approved,
the chemistry department developed and ﬁne-tuned

.( the requirements for a biochemistry major.

K

The biology department also played a vital ‘

role in evaluating the work done by the chemis-
I try department by giving suggestions that will
help reﬁne the program in years to come.

A “We decided to add this major since bio-
chemistry is an increasingly important area of
science, and we thought that it was time to offer

9' W&L students the opportunity to get a more
specialized level of training,” said chemistry pro-
fessor Steve Desjardins. .

Desj ardin also cited the Pre-Health Profes-
sions program as a reason more students were
showing interest in biochemistry.

4 Two new courses were developed for the
biochemistry major. The first, Chemistry 343, is a

BY ERIN JULIUS
l\BX&DI(]l

Three Faculty Committees have prepared

‘( reports of proposed calendar changes. One re-

“ port discusses keeping and revising the 12-12-6

week calendar, one supports a 14-14 week calendar
u the third proposes a compromise ofsorts: a 13-
13-4 week calendar.

!‘ Calendar changes are
being discussed because of
several issues facing the
faculty and administration.
A chief concern is that of
the faculty workload.
Washington and Lee faculty
has the largest teaching

. load of any of the top 25 lib-

‘l eral arts schools. The average teaching load is

4.88; Washington and Lee has an average of 6.5
classes per year.

. Washington and Lee ’s large teaching load is

4 believed to hinder its ability to at1ract top-notch

faculty. The 14-14 proposal claims that regional

--— 13-1

Most supporters of the 13-13-4
proposal would also support or
even

preﬁr the 12-12-6 calendar.

biochemistry laboratory course.

Assistant professor of chemistry, and a medicinal
chemist by training, Dr. Lisa Alty developed the
course, and she played a vital role in planning and
deciding on the components for the new major.

Unlike the traditional chemistry lab course, Chem-

_ istry 343 uses animal and plant materials as a basis for
many experiments.

The second new course, entitled Physical Chem-
istry of Biological Systems, was developed by
Desjardins, and, according to him, “considers how
living systems are described in terms of the laws of
thermodynamics.”

The first biochemistry majors are scheduled to
graduate next spring.

Freshman Emily Binns is undecided about a ma-
jor, but believes that biochemistry would “probably”
be helpful for med school.

Jeffrey Bonham, also a freshman, is planning on

sgoing to medical school in the future. “That would be ,

pretty interesting,” he said about the biochemistry
major, “right now it’s between biology and chemistry
so biochemistry would probably be a good ﬁt.

Elizabeth Little, a sophomore who will major in
either chemistry or biology, is excited about the new
major, “I think it sounds like a great idea. One reason I
was looking at schools other than W&L was because
we didn't have a biochem major. so I was really excited
when I heard they were coming up with one,” she said.

Little plans on taking a biochemistry as soon as
she can next year as a junior.

and second-tier schools are even becoming competi-

tion for faculty because they have lowered their teach- .

ing loads to four or ﬁve classes a year.

Another concern about Washington and Lee’s
current calendar is the question of the rigor of
Spring term classes. The 12- 1 2-6 report focuses on
revamping Spring Term. It suggests a six course
teaching load for faculty and a 4-4-1 course load for
students. This report sees the question of rigor as,
“an important issue. across the
year and across the majors and
not simply as an issue limited
to "Spring Term,” it states. Fur-
thermore, the report advo-
cates that spring term return
to its, “original concept of pro-
viding student experiences
unique to the spring term.”

3-4 Report

week courses.

The 12-12-6 reports also suggests that the Of-
fice of Institutional Research and the Institutional
Effectiveness Committee design a study using stan-
dardized instruments to examine students’ academic
engagement both before and after any calendar

WIIIsr'I.EwHIIEYoUooNvocm=_ Thesounds of tliewashixigtonaridlreetlliarnbersirigetsresonate
across the Colonnade as students prepare for a new school year. President Burish and Professor

  

importance of

faculty

Comparing the Mock convention to other
Washington and Lee programs‘ such as the Wash-
ington Term and Shepherd Poverty Program,
Connelly praised the, “public service—learr1ing,”
aspect and shared his hope that the Convention
will be an, “antidote to corrosive cynicism about
politics in America today.”

Connelly of the politics department spoke. Burish commented on the high levels of student governance as well as the
control

over many aspects of University life.

Connelly believes this Convention could be
the best ever, with a high likelihood that some speak-
ers could be one of the nine active candidates.
Senator Clinton may also be a speaker this year.

As one of Washington and Lee’s great traditions,
Connelly said that it, “inspires a love of politics, toler-
ance and respect for the other party.”

 ‘at i f

CODY ABBATKDTHE RlNG—'I'UM PI-I1

COME ONE, COME ALL. Junior Drew Heath attempts to recruit freshmen to the Outing Club during the

Student Activities Fair last Wednesday

changes.

To help bring the undergraduate calendar into
better coordination with the Law School, the 12-
12-6 report suggests that the undergraduate divi-
sion begin a week earlier in the fall. The 12-12-6
report lists the following as beneﬁts of the current
calendar: a broad range of classes, seminars and
very specialized courses, small classes sizes, a small
student/teacher ratio, faculty-led study abroad pro-
grams, a wide range of interdisciplinary classes a
and a range of truly unique courses that can only

occur with the spring term, for example, Washing- .

ton Term, geology digs, ﬁeld archeology, and more.
As reasons to vote against the 14-14 sched-
ule, the 12-l2-6 reports lists the following: the
“breadth of options” diminishes, double-majors
become difﬁcult, which would result in enrollment
in humanistic majors decreasing as students
choose pre-professional majors, class sizes may
increase, study abroad programs would decline,
interdisciplinary programs would suffer as pro-’
fessors attempt to cover the basics of their major.
The 14-14 report states that the 14-14 cal-
endar would be the easiest to coordinate with a

Spring Term reports clarified for student body

5-course teaching load. Other strengths that the

14-14 report believe that the semester schedule
offers are as follows: better timing for summer
internships, study abroad programs and work op-
portunitiés, better opportunities for summer schol-
arly activity, 14 weeks allows for more time to cover
the material, the -fact that it will be harder to double-
major may lead to minors, two extra weeks would
make it easier to help students learn to write.

The 14-14 report also points out some weak-
nesses of the semester calendar. Spring Term
study off-campus programs with students would
be lost, there would be less room for electives
because Washington and Lee would only require
32, 34 or 36 courses to graduate, whereas now 40
are required. , ‘

The report on the 13- 1 3-4 compromise calen-
dar states the May term courses would have to
be “academically rigorous.” The faculty course

load could be either 3-2-1, 2-3-1 or 3-3-0. The 13- _

13-4 calendar asupports a third term because,
“The breadth of our curriculum has long been a
sellig point for the university. and adds to the
distinctiveness of W&L.”

 

 

w..a;.* i‘ir:4¢ear.{3A~ 5. we a-ovt.<iz’z‘~;*

  

 (£1.  

SEP 15   L S:
PAGE 2

Ni1»rl:RN-::-Triilhi

X.

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 15, 2003

  New Construction on the Colonnade: Washington Hall

UNIVERSITY BLUEPRINTS
BY
CHRIS LAUDERMAN

Washington Hall, the Administration building on-the col-
onnade, will be receiving a renovationbeginning this fall. The
building was erected in the early l800’s and has not been given
a major renovation since the 1930’s.

“A complete renovation will not happen for several years,”
stated Joseph Grasso, Vice President for Administration. He
went on to comment that Washington Hall will not be gutted
this year and that the project will be much less evasive than a
major renovation. '

The Administration has three goals for this project. The
first goal is to make the Dean of the College office more acces-
sible to all students since Washington Hall is not handicap
accessible. That office will be moving from the second ﬂoor
to the west side ofthe first ﬂoor. , ,

Across from Dean Stewart’s office on the east side of the
first floor will be a writing seminar room for students. “The
room will accommodate 15-20 students" and will be used for
writing seminars,” said Grasso.

The second goal of the renovationlis to consolidate the
President’s Directory Ports. This will help communication
among the President’s staff within the building.

For example, the President’s legal counsel will be moving
from their current location into Washington Hall.

The third goal is to make a more functional suite of offices
for the President.

“This goal is to better meet the needs of the President and
his staf ,” commented Grasso. The Administration is trying to
minimize the expense of this project because there may be a
complete renovation of Washington Hall and the Colonnade
down the road.

“The renovation of the Colonnade is an important objec-
tive,” replied Grasso. The renovation of the Colonnade would
improve the faculty offices and teaching spaces.

The Washington Hall renovation is expected to be com-
pleted in the early winter term. “At the moment the cost is still
being developed and refined,” said Grasso in response to how
much the project will cost. Therefore, an estimate could not
be given.

The renovation will be causing two groups to move out of
the building.

The Development Staff in Washington Hall will be moving

‘to the Development Building where half the Development Staff

. is currently housed.

The Development Building is the small building down
the hill from the library. It is also to be renovated soon to
make room for the Development Staff.

All twenty-seven people will be under one roof for
the first time in a long time. This is also expected to bring
better communication to the Development Staff.

The Business Office is also being moved to a differ-
ent building. It will be moving to a vacant section of the
University Center, next to Evans Dining Hall. '

“The renovation is a complete waste of money. We
have no money to save Spring Term, yet we can keep re-
modeling buildings,” stated one member of the class of
2006.who wishes to remain anonymous. The Administra-
tion feels that the renovation is much needed and will be
an asset to the school.

Next Week, Chris Lauderman will be writing about
Construction in the C-School.

CAMPUSMAP

' two were -Q @-
ia E‘

Washington and Lee University as seen from above...Changes and additions to campus are in the works. Read about it here every week as Chris Lauderman covets Construction.

Changes in the Curriculum: Language Requirement unlinked this year

CATHERINE SWAN
STAFF WRITER

Beginning this term, students looking to complete their foreign
language requirement will no longer be required to complete the
second semester of a beginning or intermediate course in order to
receive credit for the ﬁrst. ,

The Courses and Degrees Committee asked the foreign language
departments to review their policy on the linking of courses.'The
departments that had not already unlinked their courses began re-
view of their policies during the Winter 2003 term, and the discus-
sions resulted in the decision by all departments to unlink their inter-
mediate level courses.

French, Italian, Spanish, German, and Russian classes were all
affected by the decision. The Classics Department set the precedent

at least two semesters of study is encouraged for all language
learners, professors in these two departments felt that students
should be given the opportunity to try a new language without
having to commit to two semesters of study. ,

“We concluded logically that we had no right to impose
upon any elementary or intermediate language study which was
apt to be more challenging and unrewarding than the first one
had been, especially if the first semester grade had been a low C
or a D and the prospect for failure during the second semester
was hig ,” said Professor of Romance Languages A.G. Fralin.

Besides allowing students to try a new language they may
have not previously considered, the unlinking of the language
requirement also ensures that students will not be penalized for
failing to complete the second semester of language study if
they have already completed the first.

for unlinking courses several years ago, and the department of East
Asian Languages began unlinking their courses last year. Although

Under the previous system, students who only completed
one semester would lose all credit for that semester unless they

 

FROM STAFF REPORTS

lllinois Judge to speak on "live Lawyer as a Moral Agent in Society’

Judge Thomas M. Donnelly, an associate judge of the Circuit Court of Cook County
Illinois, will be speakinglon campus on Tuesday at 7:30 in the theater of the Commons. His

talk is entitled “The Lawyer as Moral Agent in Society.”

Donnelly is an adjunct professor at Loyola University’s law school and directs the
Phillip H. Corboy Trial Advocacy Fellowship. In addition, he teaches trial advocacy at the

University of Chicago Law School in the Mandel Legal Aid clinic.

Donnelly’s speech is sponsored by Washington and Lee ’s Catholic Campus Ministry.
He will also be giving a luncheon seminar at the law school on “Sex, Lies and Legal Ethics.”
The Christian Legal Society, Asian American Law Society and Phi Alpha Delta are also

sponsoring his visit.

Renowned Writers coming to campus

Marshall Boswell and Sarah Kennedy, two renowned writers, will be opening this
year’s Glasgow Endowment events by reading and discussing their work on Tuesday,
I September 23 at 4:30 in the theater of the Commons. The talk will be followed by a book-

signing and refreshments.

Boswell, a Washington and Lee alumnus, is the T.K. Young Professor of English at
Rhodes College. His work has appeared in Playboy and New Stories from the South. His
latest work to be published is a collection of short stories entitled Trouble with Girls .

Kennedy is a professor at Mary Baldwin College and has published three collections of
poetry. She is currently working on poems that she researched last year in Wales.

Flow Blue, published by Elixer Press last year, and Double Exposure, which won the
Cleveland State University’s open submission prize in 2002 are her two most—kriown works.

The Mary and Arthur Glasgow Endowment was established at W&L in 1960 to bring

noted writers to campus.
The talk is open to the general public.

completed the second.

“This is a rule that has been confusing to both students
and faculty outside the languages, and has on occasion caused
students to lose credit based upon misunderstanding,” said
Provost Williams.

Head of the Department of East Asian Languages Janet
Ikeda still encourages students to take both courses, and said
“we [still] highly recommend that students continue the lan- .
guage sequence and not stop their study after one term.”

Another change in foreign language policy initiated by the
German department last winter was the elimination of the policy
granting different credit hours for language study according to
previous language experience.

Under the previous policy, those students who had two or
more years of secondary school study but who had to take
language at a beginner level would only be awarded ﬁve credits
for the course instead of the traditional eight.

 

Where Good Food &

Good People Meet

“According to The Roanoke Times.”

In last week’s article entitled, “W&L administrator resigns because of sodomy charges”
the sentences that read “It’s unclear why Long was charged with assault” and “Long
lives in Lexington with his wife and three sons” should have been preceded by,

CONTACT US:
info@healthyfoodscoop.com

LET US TAKE OVER WHERE MOM TOOK OFF WITH OUR
HEALTHY SNACKS, AND EASY TO PREPARE MEALS THAT ARE
SO TASTY YOU WON'T EVEN REALIZE THEY'RE GOOD FOR

WE HAVE A LARGE SELECTION OF ORGANIC, NATURAL,
HEALTHY‘ SNACKS, ENERGY BARS, CHIPS, CRACKERS,
JUICES, WATERS AND BULK SNACKS. WE ALSO CARRY IN-
DIVIDUAL SERVING SIZES OF FROZEN ENTREE5, FROZEN
PIZZAS AND INSTANT SOUPS.

‘ OUR COUNTER CULTURE CAFE SERVES DELICIOUS,
REASONABLY PRICED VEGETARIAN MEALS.

MONDAY THRU THURSDAY

ASK US ABOUT STUDENT MEMBERSHIPS
HEALTHY Fooos MARKET
110 w. WASHINGTON STREET
Y LEXINGTON, vA 24450

540-463-6954 ~

YOU.

11am-2pm

VISIT US;
wvvw.healthyfoodscoop.com

.- AV -r-.«,sy.»... ...».-~.m<i ». , . .,,.,,...___,‘.. .,, ,,t,,.,, ,

P

UV-nu .,« »...g.,... A. 

s

 

C

4

)<



   

, K MONDAY, SEPIEMBER 15, 2003

 

 

  

S;lgill\l5liPﬁDITORlAL

Phi weighs in on new Commons

We, at the Phi, feel the need to give you our two
cents on what will surely become the perennial Com-
mons debate.

Here goes.

The Elrod Commons has been the talk of campus
for several days. If you’ve made it over to the $25
million masterpiece, give or take a million, you have no
doubt noticed some of the glitches in its design. One
of the most glaring is the poorly thought-out Empo-
rium and Cafe plan.

When the cash register at the Emporium (AKA
weak-attempt at a Stop-In, where are the dogs?) is not
open, students must wait for long periods of time be-
fore they are able to pay for anything they want to eat.
In fact, Phi Staffers were forced to nearly miss meals
on Sunday night because of long lines. We have no
beef with the dining services staff, who do their best
to keep the line moving, but rather with whoever made
the decision to keep only one register open for what
seems like the great majority of the time. The old coop
might have been smaller, yet somehow it managed a
much greater level of efficiency.

The prices seem to be even higher this year than
last, and where this is not true, the portions are smaller
(as in the case of the french fries). These extreme
charges encourage many to take the phrase “starving
college student” to heart. Ormaybe to stomach? Com-
bine this with the fact that tonight, if not every night,
the only items that are made to order are cheesebur-
gers, chicken fingers, and fries.

We are pleased to see The Commons being used,
though. There are far more students wandering around
the open spaces of the new building than ever dark-
ened the doors of the Early-Fielding University Center.
It is, as promised, a place where students can easily
congregate. We love the new TV room and game area
and are happy to see that there are students there all
through the day.

Our bottom line is still this, though: we could eat
quicker by walking from our old Washington Street of-
fice to the co-op, picking up our munchies, and walk-
ing back than our current method of waiting in line for-
ever. But still, it’s hard to complain, as the place defi-
nitely looks nice and gives our campus even more ofa
community feel, as well as adding a sort ofprofession-
alism that was somewhat lacking by having an apparel
store smaller than most classrooms.

On another Commons-related note, our new offices
look shiny and brand spanking new. We are glad to be
in a more centrally-located place, despite the fish-bowl
atmosphere. The fact that we are caged zoo animals
does not deter us from enjoying our new surroundings.
Hopefully, the officewill prove inspirational and we
can continuesto’pro'vide high-quality investigative fod-
der for your eyes‘. Enjoy the Commons as we have and
will. -

  

uote of the Week

“I thinhe American people - I hope the
American - I don ’t think, let me - I hope the
American people trust me”

-President George W. Bush



Editorial Director Katie Howell

PAGE 3

f stionable necsity 

more COURTESY ux/u.edu

DO WE REALLY NEED H‘? The newjohn W. Elrod University Commons claims to be a panacea for all of W&L’s problems, but may in fact just be a money pit.

The freshmen will really never know how good they have
it. A D-Hall that always serves chicken, burgers, fries, and

- pizzas? A co-op (sorry, café/emporium) where you can order

without filling out little pieces of paper? A bookstore with
elbow room? These are just a few of the benefits that are
offered by the new John W. Elrod University Commons. Other
new features in the Commons include alcohol service, out-
door café seating, an open-air auditorium, a game room, a the-
atre, and student organization offices.

There can be no doubt that the Commons gives the W&L
‘student even more of a life of luxury and abun-
dant debauchery, but at the cost of $25 million.
Is the quality of life improvement that we get from
this new building really worth the price tag?

Let’s take, for starters, the new dining area.
The only significant improvements that I can see is the afore-
mentioned inclusion oftypical American dietary staples and
a classier, more wide-open look to the place and its adjoining
dining area, including a stage. Disadvantages include an ex-
tremely small space for lines to form, the use ofplastic (plas-
tic!) utensils on occasion, and the removal of Cap’n Crunch
from the cereal lineup, a tragedy that many a student will
doubtless mourn. And thoughthe selection of foodsmay
have improved, I can assure you that the tolerable and occa-
sionally good quality of the food has not (September l3th’s
dinner main course- Shrimp n’ Grits).

The café/emporium (neé the co-op) is effectivelyjust the
same, except divided into two sections, and with alcohol, and
with much higher prices or smaller portions.

The new student offices are nice, with a good view of the
campus, but frankly, I liked the old ones better. Judging by
student publications offices, the Phi, the Trident, and the Ca-
lyx ALL had more spacious offices on the corner of Washing-
ton & Jefferson, the basement of the University Center, and
the Washington & Jefferson annex, respectively. The inclu-
sion of various resource rooms and study/meeting rooms are
nice, but the question arises as to whether they were really
necessary.

Let’s also not forget the inclusion of the new non-stu-
dent offices, including that of the Dean of Freshmen, Dean of
Students, as well as their respective support staffs, (who all

MODERATE’S MUSINGS
CALEY ANDERSON <06 The only thing for which I am truly and purely

also previously had adequate office space on—campus), the
elevator system (which makes a horrific buzzing noise that
makes me cover my ears when it goes past a floor, which gets
me funny looks from the others in the elevator), and the pho-
tography dark room, again, all of which used to have another,
adequate home on campus.

Then there’s also a theatre (which, the last time I checked,
there were plenty of in Lenfest), an auditorium (ditto), and
the infamous circular staircase made out of South American
bluestone which ate up a significant amount of the budget in
and of itself. Perhaps there’s not enough
money to hire eight new faculty, but there IS
money for a really freaking cool staircase.

 grateful is the new bookstore, which has
greatly expanded its selection, and was wise enough to dedi-
cate an entire floor to textbooks, which means an end to hun-
dreds of people trying to cram into a space smaller than a
freshman hall at the beginning of every term. That’s the thing
that us sophomores will REALLY be using as bragging rights
come our Senior Year. I can see it now. “Yeah, back in my day,
you had to wait in line for 5 hours to get History books that
were only 3 feet away,_unless you wanted to kill someone for
their texts. A lot ofpeople did that.”

But does that reallyjustify $25 million? Some things are
better and some things are worse. ‘The cafe/emporium usu-
ally only has one register open that it takes 20 minutes to get
to a peak hours, but on the other hand, the new bookstore
features more and better clothing, apparel, and paraphenalia

So again, it’s not that I don’t like the Commons, I do, I
just wonder ifthe money that we spent on it could have gone
to something else (cough, cough, Spring Term).

My final view on the whole thing is that the Commons is
nice, but when you get right down to it, it’s just a luxury,
something that makes us look glitzy, new, and decadent, and
it is most definitely not a necessity. I’m not sure whether or
not that’s worth $25 million, but I can’t really complain too
much, as I’m writing this article inside ofit, but nevertheless,
I think we ought to take stock before we end up with a spend-
ing policy rivaling that ofthe Federal government. Make your
ownjudgments, Generals.

Spring Term’s future bright

majors fear that students would

would only have to increase
mesters and larger classes.

Editor in chief Jeb Brooks
Assistant Editor

News Editor

Opinions Editor

Arts & Life Editor
Photo Editor

Sports Editor
Assistant Sports Editor

Kyle Wass
Erin Julius
Caley Anderson
Megan Morgan
CodyGabbard
Allison Perry
John Hyland

Paul Seifert
Henry Grimball
Thomas Worthy

Business Manager
Circulation Director
Distribution Director

The Ring-tum Phi is published ‘Mondays during the un-
dergraduate school year at Washington and Lee University,
Lexington, Virginia. The Washington and Lee Publications
Board elects the Editor in chief, but The Ring-tum Phi is other-
wise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible submissions and
letters. All submissions must be e-mailed to phi@wlu.edu or in
the University Center mailbox by 5 pm. Friday to appear in the
following week’s edition. The Ring-tum Phi reserves the right to
edit submissions for content and length. Letters and colurrms do
not necessarily reﬂect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi Editorial
Board. Advertising does not reﬂect the opinions of The Ring-tum
Phi or its staff. This newspaper observes current court deﬁni-
tions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
University Commons Rm. 341
Washington and Lee University

Lexington, Virginia 24450
Telephone: (540) 458-4060
Fax: (540) 458-4059
Email: phi@wlu.edu

* Even though last Spring’s rainy
weather dampened the spirits of
W&L students, and though the
Spring Term forums left many
students fearing for the survival
of our peculiar calendar, the sum-
mer updates of the calendar work-
ing groups give rise to plenty of
optimism. Spring Term may just
be here to stay.

While most Generals were
lazing away on

choose to pursue only the other
major (most often a C-School ma-
jor) under a 14-14 calendar. Fi-
nally, the authors recognize that
many study abroad programs
would be eliminated and an op-
tional “May Term” would do little
to cover this loss.

A chief beneﬁt, which is
mentioned, seemingly as an af-
terthought, is
that a two se-

b h “T
  
and interesting 10- BRETT KIRWAN ‘04 at wou a _

cales, three commit-
tees remained in MicroLex, hard
at work evaluating the relative
strengths and weaknesses of the
12-12-6,13-13-4 and 14-14 calen-
dar options. The results are very
encouraging to supporters of the
current calendar.

For example, even the pro-
ponents of the 14-14 calendar
admit that many of the problems
with the current calendar are
staffing issues that cannot be
solved by a switch to a new cal-
endar. Also, they admit that there
would be a decrease in the num-
ber of courses needed to gradu-
ate, leading to a “watered down
educational experience.”

Similarly, double majors

‘ would be nearly impossible and

departments with many double

******** ~~—~~'~—"4--”~*-- low greater in-

tegration with
the Law School (no longer requir-
ing Spring Term judicial proceed-
ing to be postponed until the
Fall) and VMI. Other benefits,
more prominently noted, such as
allowing greater coverage of ma-
terial in 14 weeks, a longer sum-
mer for scholarly research and
better coordination with semes-
ter-length study abroad and
summer internships, hardly seem
important enough to uproot
W&L from our unique and ben-
eficial calendar. In fact, the 12-
12-6 working group noted that
the two extra weeks of summer
research gained under the 14-14
calendar would no doubt be
eaten up by the additional recov-
ery time required by longer se-

The l 3- 1 3-4 calendar option,
a compromise between the 14- l 4
and 12-12-6 extremes, embodies
none of the benefits of either and
many of the defects of both. In-
terestingly, the authors of the re-
port conclude with a stern wam-
ing that “many of the supporters
of the 13-13-4 proposal would
also support or even prefer the
12-12-6 calendar” and go on to
enjoin those in favor of a short
term not to divide their support
between the two.

So, where does the analysis
of the two other calendar options
leave the current calendar and
Spring Term? In short, looking
pretty good. For example, the is-
sue of the coordination with the
Law School can be resolved by
beginning the undergraduate
school year one week earlier.
Also, the authors compiled exten-
sive statistical analysis to dem-
onstrate that the faculty course
load can be reduced to ﬁve with-
out “exceeding the same number
of faculty that a two semester
system would require.”

To be specific, the authors
showed that with the anticipated
decrease in student body size
and increase in study abroad,
paired with the hiring of only
eight new faculty, class sizes

0.75% to accommodate a shift
from the current six and a half to
a six course teaching load. More-
over, a drastic decrease all the
way to a five course teaching
load can be achieved without hir-
ing more faculty than is required
under the two semester plan and
with only a 2.75% to 3.5% in-
crease in class size.

Naturally, the 12-12-6 calen-
dar is also preferable in terms of
the breadth of courses it offers,
the opportunities for high qual-
ity study abroad it makes avail-
able, the range of interdiscipli-
nary courses it offers and the
commitment it makes possible to
both a top-ﬂight liberal arts edu-
cation and a second—to—none
Commerce School.

Although now is not the
time for students and other sup-
porters of Spring Term to breathe
a sigh of relief and a assume that
Spring Term will be saved, nei-
ther is it the time to despair for
the future of Washington and Lee
and assume that administration
has already eliminated our be-
loved Spring Term. Three cheers
for Professors Conner, King,
McAhern and Uffelman for
authoring the 12-12-6 report and
a charge to the faculty and ad-
ministration to read it honestly
and to work to save Spring Term.

 

 

PAGE 4



California Recall Candidates’ Poll

fete the election held today, would you vote to recall Governor Gray Davis?

cs: 46%
o: 48%
ndecided: % «

ere the election held today, which replacement candidate would you vote for?

mz Bustamente- 25%

mold Schwarzenegger- 22%
om McClintock— 9%

‘ill Simon- 8% _

eter Ueberrotfv 5%

rianna Hufﬁitgtom 4%
eter‘~Camejo- 3%

any Flynt- 1%

tatistics courtesy of the Sacramento Bee

 

Spring Term Worth Keepin

   
  

DEFINITE BENEFITS. The Washington Term Would be one of many casualties of a 14-14 term system.

Next week, one of this year’s biggest debates
will begin to take center stage. On September 22,
the faculty will vote on whether they prefer to keep
our existing 12-12-6 calendar or to replace it with a
13- 1 3-4 calendar, or a more traditional 14-14 calen-
dar. The results of that vote will be factored in with
the decision of administrators and trustees as to
what calendar we should follow. The full Spring
Term is a unique institution that facilitates the
college’s liberal arts mission.» If one of the other
calendar options were adopted, the college would
lose some of the unique and diverse learning expe-
riences that Spring Terrn brings. I have had some of
my most stimulating classes during the Spring Term
and have had some challenging teachers that have
made the Spring Term experience a valuable jewel
available only at Washington and Lee. At most
schools, students on a pre—medical track have to
consistently take pre—medical courses. But, Wash-
ington and Lee’s unique calen-
dar has allowed me to take a mul-
titude of rigorous courses out-
side my area of concentration
during the spring without losing
time on my science courses.

One of the perceived negative aspects of
Spring Term is that students do not take advantage
of the opportunities that Spring Term has to offer,
including, but not limited to, Washington Term,
Politics in London, experiences in Biology and Ge-
ology, and various intense courses that examine a
breadth of subjects in depth. Some say that stu-
dents go to Goshen all of the time and do no work,
and this is why Spring Term is widely popular
amongst the student body. Largely, I do not think
this is the case. It is true that a few students will go
to Goshen frequently during Spring Term, but those
people will go to Goshen when the weather gets
nice— regardless of the calendar. The only way to
stop people from going to Goshen is to petition the
Virginia State Police to close Route 39. Addition-
ally, if we apply the principle of this argument to fall

  

COMMON SENSE
JONATHAN WORTHAEO4’

and winter terms, then we should get rid of them
too. Fall term brings a multitude of fratemity par-
ties and Winter term brings many fraternity and
sorority new member activities. We should not get
rid of fall and winter terms because some students
might misprioritize so we should not take away the
present calendar either.

Spring Term study away from campus is
popular among students and would be another
casualty of a calendar change. The response
that some students whom I have talked to who
support the 14-14 option say that W&L students
could simply use other schools’ programs. Do-
ing this would be to the detriment of W&L stu-
dents. Although there are plenty of good pro-
grams, none are as sure—ﬁre as one with a W&L
professor in charge. Last year, I was in the Wash-
ington Term program. Many of the other interns in
the Senate ofﬁce where I worked had come to the
ofﬁce through other programs,
and it was clear that they were
not getting the classroom experi-
ence that I was. And, because I
had a W&L professor ensuring
my experience was educational, I believe that, in
many cases, I was given more substantive and
meaningful responsibilities. There is also no way
that I could have gotten my valuable health policy
experience under a traditional calendar, as I would
have had to stay on campus and take one of my
laboratory sciences. Perhaps I could have done
Washington Term as a senior, but this experi-
ence profoundly affected my concept of what a
physician-citizen should be. The concept of
“physician-citizen” is one reason I chose a lib-
eral arts institution.

The six week Spring Term serves a valuable
role to the liberal arts mission of this institu-
tion. It would be a shame for my children not to
be able to take advantage of these opportuni-
ties to learn in a way that is not available almost
anywhere else in the country.

MONDAY, SEPIFMBER 15, 2003

owards of the Week

An irregular feature of the .l.'{z'rzg-fir/7.: P/;z'Op.i_r1ions section

Arnold Schwarzenegger (R) and

GOVERNATOR: Arnold Schwarzenegger (left) and Lt. Gov. Cruz
Bustamante are both  from the tough questions and pandering

From Caley Anderson, the Opinion Editor

You may be able to sympathize with my dis-
appointment at the circus that has become my
native state ’s recall election when you realize that
the two men above are the two front-runners.
The current recall election features a myriad of
over 125 characters who sound like the cast of
some sort of warped Justice League: Watermelon-
smashing comedian Gallagher, Hustler publisher
Larry Flynt, three college students, child actor
Gary Coleman, David Laughing Horse Robinson,
a tribal chief, Lorraine (Abner Zurd) Fontanes, a
ﬁlmmaker, Bruce Margolin, a marijuana legaliza-
tion attorney, Michael Jackson, a satellite project
manager who hopes that his name might fool more
ignorant voters into going with him, “Angelyne,”
a stripper, Paul Nave, who lists his profession as
“Businessman/Prizeﬁghter/Father,” adult ﬁlm ac-
tress Mary Cook, who goes by the screen name
“Mary Carey,” and Tachikaze, a medium weight
sumo wrestler.

Leading this pack of miscreants are Republi-
can Arnold Schwarzenegger, actor and ex-body-
builder, and Democrat Cruz Bustamente, the cur-
rent Lieutenant Govemor.. Each of them inspires
my conﬁdence to only a slightly greater degree
than the rest of the ﬁeld.

Arnold the would-be Govemator has made a
habit out of avoiding even the most trivial discus-
sion of the issues (except for one occasion when
cornered by a radio talk-show host). He seems to be
trying to win the race on his celebrity alone, and as
if to prove the point, he has declined to appear in a
series of debates among the candidates, events that
will also feature current Governor Gray Davis, who
will attempt to defend himself against allegations of
gross incompetence in the Govemor’s oﬂice.

Every time a reporter asks Ah-nold about his
stance on this issue or that, or about his lewd com-
mentary in an issue of risque “Oui” magazine, he
simply says in his unique accent “I dohn’t walma
tahk abowteet.”

Thanks, Mr. Schwarzenegger, for adding such
professionalism to our already sparkling Califomian
political scene. Hey, at least if he wins, we can beat
out Minnesota for the right to put those “Our gov-
ernor can beat up your govemor” bumper stickers
on our cars. And that’s something that really makes
me, as a California voter, want to stand up and run,
not walk to the polls.

Lt. Gv. Cruz Bustamante, D-Calf.

     
  

prroros COURTESY geoti/ientorn/rm/izr0273 AND imagerrorg

to special interests in their bids to replace Gray Davis as governor of _

California in the October 7 recall election.

Not that the Democratic alternative, Lieuten-
ant Governor Cruz Bustamente, is better. His cam-

paign has been one repeated pandering to the His- ,

panic community after another. His latest attempt
to garner support involved a pledge that, should
he become governor, he will allow illegal Mexican
immigrants to acquire driver’s licenses from the state.
That sickens many in his own Democratic party,
including me. As though we weren’t losing enough
jobs and paying enough taxes to subsidize illegal
immigrants’ welfare and social security as it is, now
we have longer lines at the DMV as well!

You may object “But illegal immigrants can’t
vote!” Fair enough, but the large Hispanic commu-
nity can, and after this announcement, Hispanic
support for Bustamente shot up. Not to mention
the fact that it’s as easy for an illegal, non-citizen
immigrant to vote as it is to acquire a fake ID. And
if there’s something that screams “clean politics,”
it’s aiding and abetting election fraud.

On top of this, let’s not forget the fact that
California taxpayers are handing over around $55
million just for the privileges of listening to these
loonies tell us why they’re more qualiﬁed than the‘
other. I’ m no huge fan of Gray Davis, but I really
wish we had stuck to voting out politicians we don’t
like during regularly-scheduled elections. The
whole thing reeks of partisanship and extremism of
the worst kind.

So come October 7th, who am I going to vote
for? Frankly, I had half a mind to run for Governor
myself. After all, all it takes is a few bucks and a
couple thousand signatures. But since I decided
that the people of California don’t currently require
my services, I’ll probably vote for one or the other
of the Bustamente/Schwazenegger combo. They’re
both moderates, albeit purely political moderates. I
won’t like it, but then again, people with problems
as to “least of two evils” elections probably worked
out their frustrations on that issue in the 2000 presi-
dential election.

So again, thank you, Mr. Schwarzenegger,
and Lt. Governor Bustamente, for being the
l,0O0,000th and 1,000,001 st politicians, respectively,
to fail to break the public ’s negative image of poli-
ticians as liars, cheats, and sweet-talking tricksters
who’ll do anything for a vote, and you have failed
miserably at restoring MY conﬁdence in the Gu-
bernatorial ofﬁce in California. I fear that whether

A

the recall fails OR succeeds, we’ll be left with the I I i

wrong person as Governor.

Write

for the Phi!

The Ring-Tum Phi seeks opinion writers. If
you're interested in ediloralizing, write us at
phi@wlu.edu or contact the Opinions editor

at Andersonc@wlu.edu

Earn $1 ,00O-$2,000 this semester with a proven CampusFundraiser
3 hour fundraising event. Our free programs make fundraising
easy with no risks. Fundraising dates are filling quickly, so get
with the program! It works. Contact CampusFundraiser at (888)
923-3238, or visit www.campusfundraiser.com

SELL

ALL THE FUN & ALL THE PROTECTION
AMERICAN EXPRESS WORLDWIDE
GUARANTEED BEST BUY
1 FREE TRIP FOR EVERY 10 PAID
OR CA$H STARTING WITH FIRST BOOKING
MAKE YOUR SPRING BREAK EXXTREME
EXXTREME VACATIONS,

1-800-336-2260

SPRING BREAK TRIPS

INC .

J"-v-

 

\
an

 

‘ f

3‘ Women’s socc

Ii

 

MONDAY. SEPFEMBER 15. 2003

BY ALLISON PERRY
SPORTS EDITOR

The Washington and Lee women’s soccer team
is making a strong start to what many think will be
a great season. The team defeated Bridgewater
with a 4-1 victory on Saturday and Chowan with a
3-0 win on Sunday.

The Generals are now 2-0 overall and 1-0 in the
ODAC. '

The Generals are now ranked thirteenth na-
tionally. The team was also picked by the
ODAC’s preseason poll to win the conference.
Coach Neil Cunningham was selected as the
South Region Coach of the year for last sea-
son.

The Generals know they are going to
have to work hard regardless of their high
ranking.

' “Since we are reigning ODAC champions and
ranked thirteenth in the nation, everyone wants to
beat us,” junior Ginny Helms said. “We have to go
into every game and play hard, not underestimate

any team.”
Despite some periods of rain, the team made a
good showing in its new stadium.

 

Header. Freshmanjarnie Dorsey heads the ball in Satu.rday’s game.

PAGE 5


er shoots down Eagles

The team brought back nine starters and seven
All-ODAC picks. Eleven freshmen are on the team
this year and are already making a great start.‘

Freshman Anne Wiltshire scored the first goal
for the Generals
with an assist
from freshman
Maggie Megear
about 7:00 min-
utes into the
game.

A few min-
utes later,
W i l t s h i r e
crossed the ball
to senior captain
F o n t a i n e
Marcoux for an-
other goal, tak-
ing the Generals
to 2-0 at the half.

M a r c o u x
had ten goals and
six assists last
season, all while
ﬁghting an injury.
The senior also
holds the career assist record at 27 and is ranked
third all-time in career points with 87.

 

 Football falls to Johns

‘_W&L Men’s and Women’s Cross Country take Invitational p

K

BY ALLISON PERRY
sI>oRTs EDITOR’

The Washington and Lee football team lost its
season opener to Johns Hopkins in Baltimore on

, Saturday, 36-7. This game was the 14”‘ meeting for

the two teams. The series now stands at 7-6-1.

The Generals rushed for 53 yards and had 121
passing yards in this non-conference game. The
Blue Jays rushed for 280 yards and passed for 228.

With about ﬁve minutes leﬁ in the ﬁrst quarter,
Johns Hopkins’ T.J. Lyons rushed for one yard "to
get the touchdown after kicker Chris Smolyn failed
in a ﬁeld goal attempt.

Smolyn then succeeded with a 30 yd ﬁeld
goal kick in the second quarter to put the score
at 9-0.

Blue Jay senior quarterback George Merrell
completed a’ 12-yardjtouelifdown passto wide re-
ceiver Anthony Triplin. "Smolyn kicked for the ex-
tra point, raising the score to 16-0 for the half.

Coming back from the half, Johns Hopkins
received from the kickoff and eventually
scored on that drive. Merrell passed to Chris
Moriarty for a 42-yard touchdown. But Smolyn
did not make the extra point, leaving the score
at 22-0.

The Blue Jays fumbled the ball with 8:50
left in the third quarter, which lead to a Wash-
ington and Lee 17-yard drive. Sophomore run-
ning back Michael Lackett carried the ball four
yards to get the touchdown. Freshman kicker
Ben Long made the extra point, putting the score
at 29-7.

This week’sorts schedu

 

BY ALLISON PERRY
sI>oRTs EDITOR

The Washington and Lee women’s and men’s

cross country teams each placed ﬁrst in the W&L _

Invitational Meet on Saturday.

The women’s team came in first with 37
points, and the men’s team ﬁnished with 39
points. Points are awarded to a runner based
on which place he or she ﬁnishes. Points are
then totaled for the team, and the lowest score
wins.

Finishing behind the Generals in the women’s
race were Catholic with 53 points, Southern Virginia
with 79, Bridgewater with 125, Shenandoah with 147,
Mary Baldwin with 152, and Hollins with 154.

Trailing Washington and Lee in the men’s race
were Bridgewater with 49 points, Catholic with 75,
Southern Virginia with 95, Lynchburg with 98, and
the Washington and Lee alumni squad with 151.
Both the men’s team and the women’s team
were picked second in the ODAC preseason
poll.

. The women rim a 5,000 meter course, while
the men run 8,000 meters.

Both courses are west of campus and
start above Wilson Field. The men’s course
runs to Maury River and back twice. The
women’s course runs a loop around the
playing fields, a long loop in the woods,
and then back to the playing fields for a
final circuit.

Soccer. Freshman Anne Wiltshire ﬁghts a Bridgewater defender for the ball.

 

 

Cour GABBARD/ Tb: Rinﬂum Pbi

About two minutes after the start of the sec-
ond half, sophomore Heather Rogers crossed to
Wiltshire, who scored her second goal of the ‘game.

The Generals brought the ball right back to the
Eagles’ goal. Marcoux took a shot that bounced
off the leﬂ goal post and appeared to go in, but the
referees did not count it.

With about 30 minutes left in the game,
Bridgewater’s Kim Matthews scored the only goal
for the Eagles.

Megear came back ﬁve minutes later and
scored the ﬁnal goal for Washington and Lee with
the help of Marcoux.

Wiltshire made ﬁve shots on goal, scored
twice, and had one assist. Megear had one goal
and one assist. Marcoux made seven shots on
goal, scored once, and assisted once. Rogers had
the fourth assist.

Bridgewater only took four shots total and only
two comer kicks. The Generals spent more time
near Bridgewater’s goal, taking 25 shots and eleven
comer kicks.

Lisa Belella stayed busy in the Bridgewater
goal, making eleven saves. Washington and Lee
goal keeper Emily Barker had one save. Barker, a
junior, holds the school record for goals against
average at 0.65. '

The women travel to Emory and Henry on
Tuesday for a 4:00 game.

k °

Johns Hopkins would intercept the ball twice
in the fourth quarter, both leading to scoring drives.
Lyons ran for 14 yards for the ﬁrst touchdown.
Merrill made a ten-yard pass to Steve Eno for the
ﬁnal touchdown. Smolyn made the extra point each
time.

Senior Washington and Lee quarterback Peter
Dean passed for 121 yards and rushed for 16. He
completed 10 of 27 passing attempts, had only one
interception, and was sacked three times. Lackett
led the Generals in rushing with 60 yards.

Merrell carried the Blue Jays by passing a ca-
reer-high 228 yards and rushing for 78 yards. He
had no interceptions and no sacks. Adam Cook led
the team in rushing with 96 yards.

The Generals travel to Sewanee next Saturday
for another non-ODAC game starting at 1:30 p.m.

  

Generals
Volleyball Wins
W&L lnvi ational

BY NICK MANNINO
STAFF WRITER

p.

The Washington and Lee Volleyball team
began its season in impressive fashion, domi-
nating the thirteenth armual W&L Invitational
and ﬁnishing in first place among six participat-
ing schools.

The tournament kicked off Friday aftemoon
with Washington and Lee facing Averett Uni-
versity. In what was a very lopsided event,
Washington and Lee defeated Averett in three
straight games (3 0-26, 30-15, 30-20) the Gener-
als’ ﬁrst match of the year.

Junior outside hitter Emily Wolﬁng (Mt.
Airy, Md./South Carroll) led the way with 10
kills and 17 digs, while junior outside hitter
Michelle Chastain (Phoenix, Ariz./Xavier Prep)
finished with 12 kills.

Other standout performances were made by
Christine Gladysz (Palm Harbor, Fla./Berkeley
Prep), who amassed 43 assists, and junior Jen-
nifer Lux (Virginia Beach, Va./Cox), who totaled
17 digs.

When asked how the team , managed to
fair so well and so early in the season with
new incoming freshman, Junior Captain Emily
Wolﬁng said, “We have three great freshmen
this year, and they have all meshed nicely into
the team. Considering we have eleven return-
ing players from last year, team unity was not
a concern. We all get along well both on and
off the court.”

In its second match of the Invitational,
the team had an equally impressive perfor-
mance beating Shenandoah University in three
straight games (30-21, 30-18, 30-21).

Impressive performances were turned in by
Emily Wolfmg (12 kills and 7 digs), sophomore
middle blocker Susan Gaillard (Charleston, S.C./
Porter-Gaud — 9 kills), sophomore outside hitter
Ashleigh Overly (Lancaster, Pa./Conestoga Val-
ley — 9 kills), and Christine Gladysz (33 assists
and 10 digs).

Washington and Lee continued action on
the second day of the Invitational against Sa-
vannah College of Art & Design. In what turned
out to be the team ’s most competitive matchvof
the tournament, Washington and Lee won in
four games (26-30, 30-28, 30-28, 30-25) to reach
the ﬁnals.

Standing between the team and champion-
ship was an Emory team that Washington and
Lee had not beaten in the past.

Junior Captain Emily Wolﬁng mentioned
how the upperclassmen rallied their team before
this important match.

“Before the games, we tell everyone to have
fun and play hard. A key to volleyball is com-

munication; if a team can communicate well,

many other parts of the game fall into place. We
remind everyone to communicate and take one
point at a time.”

The Captains’ advice certainly stuck
as Washington and Lee defeated Emory in
three straight games (30-21, 30-27, 42-40)
to win the Washington and Lee Invitational
championship.

Junior outside hitter Michelle Chastain
(Phoenix, Ariz./Xavier Prep) led the way with 1 5
kills and 24 digs. Junior outside hitter Emily Wolf-
ing (Mt. Airy, Md./South Carroll) recorded 10
kills and 16 digs in the victory, while sophomore
setter Christine Gladysz (Palm Harbor, Fla./Ber-
keley Prep) had 43 assists and 16 digs.

Michelle Chastain and Christine Gladysz
made the all-tournament squad, with Gladysz
earning the Invitational MVP award.

The Volleyball team ﬁnished the weekend
undefeated with high hopes for the rest of the
season. Their next match is Tuesday, Septem-
ber sixteenth at 6:30 p.m. when the Generals open
up their Old Dominion Athletic Conference
schedule on the road at Sweet Briar. 1

Until then the girls will be celebrating their
very successful weekend.

Added Junior Emily Wolﬁng, “We’ve
worked really hard these past two weeks, and
really wanted to win our tournament. I’m really
proud of all 14 of our girls.”

The course record for the men was set at 25 :20.9 Freshman Tippins Stone led the women’s team with
by Kenny Layman, from Eastern Mennonite, in a fourth place overall ﬁnish of 23:03.
1976. The ﬁrst place ﬁnisher on Saturday, Catholic’s Sophomore Betsy Frayer ﬁnished sixth with a
Mike Audette, ﬁnished over four minutes off the time of 23:30.
record with a 29:49 time. Senior Andy Schorr led Roanoke and Lynchburg could be competi-
the Generals with a second place overall ﬁnish at tion for the women’s team. The Generals will
29:59. ' meet the two teams this weekend on Roanoke’s
Junior Steve Chambers placed third with a time course.
of 30:05. SophomoreAndrew Johnson came inﬁﬂh “No course is tougher than ours, but its
at 30:28. [Roanoke ’s course] challenging” junior Erin Johnson
The women’s course record was set in 1992 by said. “It’s mostly a path through a ﬁeld with rolling
Josephine Schaeffer at 18:14. She competed on hills.”
Saturday on the alumni team, ﬁnishing seventh Both the men’s team and the women’s team
overall withatime of 23:39. compete next Saturday, September 20 at the
Catholic’s Rachel Yates finished about 3 Roanoke Invitational. The race starts at 11:15
minutes off the record with a time of 21:07. a.m.

 

  

 Pm Sif6“ii‘Ts

       
   
       
       
   
     
   

     
    

    
  
  

  
   

    
  

 

   

. t
M ’ S O S 'th V’ t
i BY JOHN HYLAND and many players played all 100 minutes of the contest. X
ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITOR V After the game, junior goalkeeper Chris Carlson commented, “It was a
good victory considering [NC Wesleyan] had already played a number of
j . : T The Washington and Lee men’s soccer team began their season games and we had some first game jitters.” V
on a positive note with a 2-1 victory over North Carolina Wesleyan in It was NC Wesleyan’s seventh game of the season. The loss dropped ,(
a non-conference game on Saturday in Rocky Mount, North Caro— their record to 2-5.
lina. Carlson played the ﬁrst half making two saves without allowing a goal.
The Generals opened the scoring in the 33rd minute on a goal off a He was relieved in the second half by sophomore Michael Stanton who also
penalty kick by senior midﬁelder Jacob Stoehr. NC Wesleyan came made two saves but allowed the tying score. _
back in the mid second half to tie the score at 1-1 on a goal by Carlos Washington and Lee was picked ﬁfth in the ODAC preseason poll. "
Gomez in the 71st minute. The score would remain tied to the end of The team lost seven seniors at the end of the 2002 season.
regulation. Roanoke came in at number one in the poll. The Generals do not meet
Eight minutes into the first overtime period Stoehr found junior up with the Maroons until October 11th.
forward and co—captain Brian Pirkle on a pass across the top of the box. The Generals next match is on Tuesday when they travel to F emim for I‘
Pirkle made a quick move and ﬁred a shot across the goalie into the right another non-conference game. _ . 1
side of the net to give the Genemls the victory. They will begin their ODAC season with a home opener against East- 
It was a dramatic win considering the Generals were out-shot 14-9 em Mermonite on September 24th. G
Li
3. r
N.
A
1]: 0
. _ - Av
. .~ I I
Boo-Yah. A Washiﬂgton and Lee Player crosses to her teammate V V I i A I i I S i H H‘O i 5. ‘~
  Field Hockey close 
Jeiaﬂmaﬁifs an » . V. V Tnirvﬂprzrbt
FROM STAFF REPORTS scored the team’s final goal with = A W! “Max ax ‘
18:53 left in the game. Washington ‘ ggpggg
Washington and Lee’s ﬁeld hockey and Lee’s Jane Beall scored once mama
' j C ' team lost 3-4 to Johns Hopkins Saturday more for the Generals with 5:40 left A 511%.!
inBaltimore. in the game. Kitt Murphy assisted. HERIM M
The Blue Jays scored twice in the Sophomores Courtney Harrison . . "
first half With goals by Sophomore and Elise Gelinas were the goal keep-  .. 
_Meighan Roose. Washington. and Lee - ers making s10»saves and 5 saves,~re- -  ;!..]fi;w,.!u«£a;.h, an fmei
‘ ' ’ ' ' came back in the second half witha goal ..;.spectively. .— A  , . _ . _. . .» . I — 2 U“! "5 °l|*¢31'ﬂPW MP5
by Kelly Talfe. The Generals also played Villa Call for gum; ﬂismaufs , ‘
Johns Hopkins scoredjustafew min— Julie on Sunday. The team lost 3- * . __ U‘ A  ’
utes later when senior Jenny Farrelly 2. » 7”’ (_ _ - W’ '‘I‘(.?':
found the goal. Taffe scored the second Washington and Lee plays «~ .1] _l .‘ '
goal for the Generals at 24:59. Roanoke at home on Wednesday U ' °   stung‘;
s , . . niversity ortwear  
Johns Hopkins Caite Kappel then at 6.30 p.m. p Mﬂéwuﬂpl umufmmpehmu ‘
01y m P ia n your downtown location for
to speak at ,
Mary Baldwm W&L apparel and gifts This weeks
Former U.S. Olympic gymnast golf etiquette tip;
Dominique Dawes will speak at Mary - ' L
BaldwmSmythLeadmhipLeCm New Exclusive Football Polo Shirt H
on September 23rd at 5:00 p.m. The for the  Season
program Wlll be held on Page Terrace
and is open to the public. There is no ‘ ,
charge for admittance. . DO I10t  during a 4* ‘
Dawes wonabronze medalinthe 1 5  Washlngton Street  , b k -
ﬂoor exercise inthe 1996 olympics in L - t  - - P ayel" S ac SW1ng-
V Atlanta. She was also part of the U.S. exlng On: lrglnla
‘ _. . women’steamthatwongold. I  V 
EL FUEGO. Junior Erin Rathbone is on fire D_aWeS as the ﬁrst Afn?an- , , -
as she looks to pass. {’*“%°1?°a“‘° take “W a medal 1“ an www.universitysportwear.com

individual event. . 

>

L ‘k S D
1 6 par ts. .
C W '
0111 6 1‘1 1'6 s
G P . ’ i
101' th 6 111. s
. _ . _ O O  v ‘
E11131] Alllson y  is I 3  X
Make the nine dyer: spring smiesuarwith an F0: mm iuioramtion and wsmiom
.1 axeiiting immnshép. cmuenging manage  * xwm.vm.edw’waimlW?>e$W? ,
intmting guest siasaicsrs am an its drama of ' “""9"“3 €W"53l53"’“m’» Sclml 9*‘  1 *
« . . .  .. , aﬁlﬁibtm Aims, RE). Ecix amzs. ‘hrgina J
Vicgmia mania. C Wl llraiveisiw mzlznmi VA
Emesiem Virginiak camera! city iiuréngme mgﬂm, W ‘ “ '
 iaxemsiriegn eta  smjzriswlzele cmitiiusnig mmmmm. “Emma Tl Jim .; J}
  W 11.6 U W m"“°W*3'*‘“*° WWWWW ieaeiaaismxsiismasisrsor
wad: awirgiaiia  m ’Lhwsrsi:y - and 
team a sum iaeeneain stipem. iiapﬁcaaisnii daarliina  E31":-L is. 21333.
‘_ Mug-utnsuauﬁxuheaan am: mum: ‘ _ 

 

MONDAY, SEFFEMBER 15, 2003

 

 & LIFE

CAPTION! KELLER WILLIAMSWILL 131-: PERFORMING IN LEXINGTON ON SEPT. 26TH

Keller Williams
to perform at Lime Kiln

BY MEGAN MORGAN
ARTS & LIFE EDITOR

On Friday, September 26th, singer, songwriter
and guitarist Keller Williams will be~coming to
Lexington. Williams, a solo—artist who is a rising
star on the jam-band music scene is performing at
the Lime Kiln Theatre as part of a nationwide tour
to promote his eighth album entitled Home. Called
“the mad scientist of music”,he is known for his
quirky and unique lyrics. His most recent album,
which contains songs such as “Love Handles” and
“Apparition”, is Keller’s ﬁrst solo studio record-

mg.

has always been interested in guitars. He ﬁrst began

A native of Fredricksburg, Virginia, Williams

to play during his early teens, virtually teaching
himself by learning a few chords and putting them
together to play songs by the Beatles,the Eagles
and the Rolling Stones that he heard on the radio.
After graduating from college, Williams traveled
Virginia, playing solo gigs during the day and
performing with his band The All Natural Band
at bars and fraternity parties by night. He eventu-
ally moved to Colorado where his friendship with
the members of String Cheese Incidentsopened up
opportunites for him as a solo artist in the jam-
band community.

For tickets to the Keller Williams concert , call
540-463-7088. Tickets are $18 for lawn seats and

$20 for achairs. .Doors to the Theatre will open at

6:30 p.m and the concert will begin at 7:30.

Jeepers Creepers: Oh my
God, they’re eating my eyes out!

BY IAN DICKINSON
STAFF WRITER

“You wanna know Scotty what I found out
today? When people get really scared it’s just
like when they get drunk. The real person comes
to the surface.” This gem of scripting literature
is quite possibly the best line, and only worth-
while lesson gleaned from the “creature feature”
ﬁlm “J eepers Creepers 2.” When I entered The
State to watch this “Creature Feature" ﬂick, I
noticed that the theater was completely empty.
Always a good sign for a ﬁlm. However, I grit-
ted my teeth and prepared for the pointless on-
slaught that was about to assault my intelligence.
In the following paragraphs, I illustrate the finer
points of this ﬁlm. F

The “horror” begins with an opening shot
of a cornﬁeld with a young boy erecting scare-
crows onto poles. His stereotypical redneck fa-
ther threatens him with a beating if he neglects
to securely fasten the scarecrows to their
perches. Then, low and behold, one of the scare-
crows comes alive, grabbing and dragging the
boy violently through the cornﬁeld. In what
seems to be a time ﬁller to extend the ﬁlm to
the required 80 minutes, the audience sees the
redneck father running through the cornﬁeld
with his gun calling out his son’s name, then it
cuts to a shot of the monster dragging the boy,
then back to the father again. Repeat about
twenty times and you have the ﬁrst chase scene,
which ends with the monster ﬂying away from
the suddenly catatonic father.

Enter a school bus, ﬁlled with lively young
basketball stars on the way home from their vic-
tory game. Here, the audience is introduced to
such one-dimensional characters as “Bucky,”
and “Scotty Double D.” Why, with names like
these, this ﬁlm is assured to be of the best qual-
ity! Suddenly, a tire blows out. This highly un-
expected turn of events leads to another tire
blowing out and the bus being stranded on a
desolate stretch of highway, curiously out of
range of both the radio and cell phones. The tires
are found out to be punctured by some sort of
hand crafted bone throwing star, yet other than
some puzzled looks and a “what the hell is it,”
comment by the bus driver, this fact is never
questioned. Finally for no apparent reason, a
cheerleader, aptly named “Minxie,” is treated to
some gruesome visions and learns that the mon-

 ster; named “the Creeper,” comes out every 28

years, for 28 days to feed. This is day 28 and,
like a hungry hungry hippd, he has to eat as many
humans as possible before he goes back into
hibernation. The Creeper’s link to the number
28 is never explained nor questioned. Apparently
it is just there. There are many parts of the ﬁlm
like this. Another “fact” is that “the Creeper”
cannot die. It is just an accepted fact of the ﬁlm.

The next forty minutes of the ﬁlm, like the
food at the old D-Hall, are absolutely the worst.
People die. In the most uninteresting way pos-
sible. That’s it. The word “way” is not plural
because they are all killed off in the same fash-

 

HOTO COURTESY OF ROI'l'ENTOMATOES.COM

Watch Out. Three teenagers peer out a window in horror
in a scene from the new movie jeepers Creepers 2
ion. Without revealing too much detail, though
there is not much to reveal, “the Creeper” kills
his victims by snatching them up in the air. The
end. You never see any conclusion to the mur-
der. Not that the ﬁlm needs any more violence,
but the unﬁnished subplot of the characters
death gives the feeling of “total apathy” from
the director.

The feature’ ends much like it begins; with
a pointless appearance from a redneck. Though
the ending shall not be revealed here in this re-
view, the last word to be said about this ﬁlm is
that it gets more and more ridiculous as time
progresses. After sixty minutes of cumulative
absurdity, theﬁlm ‘reaches a laughable level,
ruining the intense climax. The true absurdity
though, is that the famous director Francis Ford
Coppola was the executive producer for this
ﬁlm. It was produced by Zoetrope pictures, a
small ﬁlm studio owned by the Coppola. It was
doubtful, however, that he ever visited the set,
because after viewing the movie, it is obvious
the director could have used some tips about
how to make a “good” movie. However, it can-
not be discounted, that in a unique display of
talent, the director Victor Salva managed to
make a plot-less horror ﬁlm without showing a
single mammary gland. Now that is quite a feat!
There is blood, screams and explosions, yet not
a single sex scene. While one might applaud this
support of Christian values, it just means that
the movie has no redeeming value whatsoever.

Speaking about the director, one might
recognize the name Victor Salva as appear-
ing on the Hollywood scene. He has a few
ﬁlms to his credit such as “Powder, and “Rites
of Passage” and had a starring role in the true
life story “Prison.” That is, he served ﬁfteen
months of a three year sentence after sexu-
ally molesting a 12 year old boy in 1988
(United Press International August 30, 2000).
Yes, this director/Sex offender created a
movie so god-awful, that viewing is tanta-
mount to being whipped repeatedly. In the
stocks. In the hot sun. All day. My recom-
mendation is to avoid this movie like the
puddle your roommate left on your ﬂoor last
night. For the love of all that is good and holy,
do not see this movie. As a rating, I use my
bad movie scale, which is four smacks in the
face out of ﬁve. '

then get

7 North Jefferson Street
463-3622

  Got Dirty Clothes?

University
Cleaners  « .

Great Service
First-Rate Quality.

Traveller releases route and begins safe ride services

463-7328

BUFFALO CREEK 
VANDALISM

If you attended the Buffalo Creek
  Festival last spring and had your
vehicle vandalized, please contact:

Investigator Miles D. Kelly
Rockbridge County Sheriff ’s Ofﬁce

I may have a lead in this case

—————:r

m

‘R’

ﬁlﬂllﬂi
J _.._.. _.«»“' __,_.-— 
7’ ‘ “ass” ..:a...
9. \
1‘ ﬁ
- X‘
5* N N‘ \‘\“‘--4.
i wanna ~N%”"“*-..____‘
-«I ~ * es.- lo -s»~.....
mutant
_ M. I '%
’2".§ ﬁx g x . '
dry cleaning, , ix... \\ \ 53.. U’? I
laundry, alterations  r. in ~ , I
--. 0 ' -

r--1 .., ‘~ :."~=:~: 1 ii

it I. on ‘ K, ' I

A, X
i  E5
-n....,, % ‘
 {MI W‘ ‘

rawﬁ

 

Traveller is a campus-wide safe ride service
available to both the undergraduate and law cam-
puses from 10pm till 2am seven days a week. The
program is responsible for giving thousands of
rides every year.

The program is a derivative of the previ-
ously-existing Live Drive and Safe Ride pro-
grams, and is the only major organized so-
ber driver system on campus.

It is operated primarily by members of
the Washington and Lee community includ-
ing volunteers from more than twenty cam-
pus organizations, particuarly fraternities.

Lot.

Students act as dispatchers and drivers. Many
coaches also drive for the program.

The program is funded by the student ac-
tivities fee. Each student pays twenty-five
dollars for the sytem.

The route of Traveller goes through
Woods Creek Apartments, the primary Law
School parking lot, Sorority Row, the BDG
quad, the International House, Davidson
Park near Kappa Sigma, the Outing Club
house, Windfall, the Pole Houses on Furrs
Mill Road, and the Lee Chapel Parking

 

 

 

l’AG_EL 8

WE‘. R.

Asﬁt/oRD I

FiviAII;i>IiI@wIiJIaDu
MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 15, 2003

Lexington cuisine dishes up low-prices and variety

BY CAROLINE DUFFY
STAFF WRITER

Carolyn Duffy is a food—savvy Washington and
Lee senior. Her food-tasting experience is varied
and vast. She will be bringing the Washington and
Lee community periodic culinary delights from in
and around the Lexington area. Please feel free to
emailus at phi@wlu.edu with any ideas about what
Carolyn should sample. For now, our very own food
critic has decided to explore Lexington’s best deals.

Where to find the best deals in Lexington is some-
thing we can all use a little advice on, especially those
students who aren’t quite as familiar with the town.
You might be surprised at the great, even gourmet,
food you can find at prices we all can afford.

Salemo’s, arguably the most popular student
eatery in Lexington, is packed on Monday nights
when they offer all—you-can»-eat spaghetti and gar-
lic bread for only $3.00 and then again every
Wednesday when you can order a large cheese pizza
for $4.95. In the ten years since Salemo’s began
offering these specials, the price of the pizza hasn’t
changed and the spaghetti only costs $.50 more
than it did the day the restaurant opened. Now
that’s a deal. ,

Smokin’ Jim’s Firehouse Grill knows exactly
what the students want. Not only can you find
friendly service and a $3.00 barbeque sandwich
(pork, beef, or chicken), you can take advantage of
the late night buffet serving up barbeque and break-
fast items for only $6.95 every Wednesday, Friday,
and Saturday night until 3 am. Jim himself will as-
sure you it’s the best food, the best deal, and the
best barbeque on the East coast.

It’s hard to believe you can have lunch for only
$5.00 at what City Magazine-this year named the
“Best Restaurant Outside the Roanoke Valley.” At
Willson—Walker House, manager Steve Hintze has
been offering his “famous $5 lunch special” Tues-
day through Saturday for twelve years in order to
prove that his restaurant isn’t as expensive as people
tend to think. The special includes soup or salad,
homemade rolls and muffins, and a beverage, as
well as the day’s entree. With all that for only $5,
lunch chef Ron Howland admits that he has to get
pretty creative with the budget. Nonetheless, he
serves up American regional cuisine using only the
freshest local produce and meats to create lunch
specials such as his penne pasta with salmon dill
cream sauce or southwest chicken with couscous.
Don’t be intimidated by its reputation—the Willson-
Walker House would love for more students to take
advantage of this deal.

l

STOPPING FORA QUICK BITE. Three sophomores grab some food in the cafe before class. The tasty morsels
they are eating may not match the unbeatable deals our food critic dug up on the streets of Lexington.
Carolyn encourages students to get off campus and sample the variety of treats Lexington has to offer.
They are far more vast than the measely menu the cafe has to offer, especially late at night. From Mexican

Some of the newest restaurants in town of-
fer students excellent deals on delicious and sat-
isfying meals. At the Black Dog Cafe, owner
Jackie Lupo boasts that students can get a great
meal for under $5.00. And a cheese and salsa
quesadilla will cost you only $2.25. I recom-
mend the $3.00 breakfast burrito, ﬁlled with
scrambled eggs, potato, and cheddar and
Monterey jack cheeses. .

The Joyful Spirit, which also opened last

our readers.

year, offers their popular veggie wrap for only
$3.99 as well as a PB&J wrap for just $2.49,
and before you hit the nearest drive-through
be sure to check out their egg and cheese ba-
gel with turkey——only $2.49.

Don Tequila Mexican Restaurant claims that
students appreciate their reasonable prices. You
can’t go wrong with the chicken tacos——three
for only $3.00—and if you order the $1.50
sopapillas for dessert then you’ve just eaten for

to traditional southern cuisine, nothing on Carolyn’s menu exceeds $7.00. Lexington truly has it all,
for less. Our food critic believes Washington and Lee students should avoid the regular fast food
restaurants in town and ny something new. Her periodic colurrm will present all kinds of options to

under $5.00. On Wednesday nights celebrate
with 12 oz. margaritas for just $1.75 each. Combo
dinners are $6.25, or if you haven’t already dis-
coveted, there’s usually a coupon for $1.00 off
any combo dinner on the back of your Kroger
receipt.

Take advantage of some of the great deals
that these and other Lexington restaurants of-
fer. Support local business owners, forget fast-
food!

DRIVERS BEWARE Thejeep on the left is breaking the rules and the one on the right is not. Another change to the campus is that the upper deck ‘
of the parking garage no longer serves as a “temporary entrance.” Drivers are now forced to follow The Ring-tum Phil editorial advice of last year.

Students fail to appreciate natural beauty .

BY Himas KING
TRAVEL EDITOR
fdrive and hike time.

Unfortunately, many students
at Washington and Lee do’ not real-
ize how surrounded the campus is
by the beauty of nature. If you are
one of these students, then I would
like to challenge you to visit an amaz-
ing place within a 30 minute drive of
Lexington. The St. Mary’s Falls is a
great place to hike, swim, and hang
out with friends. It is best visited on
a scorching hot summer day. Hope-
ﬁilly we will still have a few of those
days that will allow you to get out
to experience this area.

I have only made the tiip once,
and I am still waiting for the next
perfect day. Aﬂer a short drive, a
moderately dimcult hike crosses the
river on three different occasions
and leads the hiker to the culminat-
ing falls. These final falls are not
the only spot to swim in the river,
so keep your eye out for that deep
pool that has not yet attracted any-

one. According to the W&L Out-
ing Club Guidebook, the hike to the
falls is approximately 1 and ‘/2 hours
long. If you decide to pick up the
pace and are not carrying much
gear, the trip can easily be made in
under an hour.
At the falls, there are two great
spots to jump off rocks into the deep
pool. The lower of the two spots is
about 20 feet high and the higher, 30
to 35 feet. Both are exciting if you
are extremely careful. The depth of
the pool was plenty deep, but a rock
shelf on the leﬁ side does ' require
one to be accurate with his or her
jump. If you decide to jump from
the higher ledge, you have to be able
to jump farther out. The wet rock
and loose footing make it diﬂicult to
get anything of a running jump. ‘
Ihave also beerito Panther Falls
within the last few weeks, and I truly
thoughtthat St. Maiy’s was well worth
the hike and the better of the two.
Before going, check the Out-
ing Club Guidebook for directions
to the trailhead and estimations of
drive and hike time.

"T THERIN UM

A Staff Editorial from 2002 implored students to enter the deck from the bottom and exit from the top. The new rule will be enforced by

University Security in the form of tickets and ﬁnes."Don’t be caught breaking this rule, it’s not worth the potential damage to your BMW

  

FILE PHoIo/ THE RING-TUMPHI

OH, THE GOOD OLD D'AYs!. Two students, dressed inb aprons and W&L visors, serve a meal at’D-Hall in the days before the building of thejohn W Elrdo commons.

 

Arch

  

 

4 372. 755

K

R ..
V33?
rw-8

‘(cpa

  

BY PATRICIA BALLANTYNE
STAFF WRITER

What exactly is Mock Convention? Traces of
this important event have permeated campus since
the ﬁrst day of school in forms of newspaper ar-
ticles, the convocation speech, and word of mouth.
Why so much attention? What does this repu-
table occasion represent and entail?

The history of W&L’s Mock Con speaks for
itself, with its status as the nation’s most accurate
mock convention since its establishment. While
the convention boasts 17 correct predictions out
of 22 attempts, its reputation has grown even stron-
ger with time. In fact, our Mock Con maintains
only one miscalculation after the 1948 convention,
producing a 92% prediction rate.

Washington and Lee’s Mock Convention has
even caught the eye of highly regarded pundits
and publications. 77m_e labels it as “the biggest
and bloomingest” of all amateur gatherings. After
the 1996 convention, the Washington Post claimed

The itudem‘ voice of Washington and Lee Umlersigy Jim 7897

W&L’s convention to be “one of the nation’s oldest
and most prestigious mock conventions.”

In the past, Mock Con has hosted several re-
nowned speakers including Jimmy Carter, Newt
Gingrich, and Bill Clinton. (Clinton actually enter-
tained some students by playing his saxophone at a
country party.) While this year’s speakers have not
yet been armounced, we can expect an excellent line-
up, especially if it reﬂects the Spring Kickoff sched-
ule that included Dick Morris, Dr. Al Sharpton, and
Donna Brazile.

At the Spring Kickoff held last May, students
had the opportunity to not only listen to famous
speakers, but also to participate in a discussion fo-
rum with interesting political analysts such as Dick
Morris and Charlie Cook. On the lighter side, The
North-Mississippi All-Stars also played that week-
end at Lime Kiln for the enjoyment of students.

Its student-rim nature and tradition of success
establish W&L’s Mock Con as a newsworthy, re-
spectable, unique, and exciting affair. Noah Rhodes,
General Chairman of Mock Convention, elaborates

on the student organization, explaining how “The
whole thing is student-run. We have advisors, but
it is a hands-off deal.” The general leadership of
Mock Convention consists of a 25-member steering
committee, some of whom have been working
since April of 2002, almost two years
before the actual convention.

The success-rate of Mock
Con results from the diligence of
a large number of people. The P0-
litical Chair Michael Denbow su-
pervises the Regional Chairs, —
who oversee the work of State
Chairs, all of whom have their
own committees. Brooks Morgan,
Fundraising Co-Chair, explains that “Mock Conven-
tion becomes more and more of a teamwork experi-
ence as the Convention nears.”

Over 200 people conduct impeccable research
in order to correct candidate. With the recent en-
trance of General Clark as a Democratic candidate
for President, students now must focus on ten can-

PHI

 
  
 
  
  
   
  

MONDAY, SEl’lEl\«lBER22,2003

A Anticipation builds for Mock Con 2004

didates in their efforts to choose the winner.
Noah Rhodes contributes an additional motive
for success.

“One reason it will continue to be this suc-

cessful is this huge pressure. We’ve been
wrong once since ’48. You want to
honor the people who have done
it before you.”

Reﬂecting the traditional W&L
attitude of “work hard, play
hard,” Mock Con encompasses

several festivities for the en-

. tertainment of students. The
Presidential Gala will be held
November 14, with “Big Ray and the

\

    

Kool Ka ” playing. Mike Baker, the Social Chair
of Mock Con, describes the Presidential Gala. “It’s
a big social event to get people thinking about
Mock Con. It’s a fun thing.”

To add to the excitement of this black-tie

SEE MOCK CON, PAGE 2

 

Isabel’s u deatas Sou

Swept away. Water ﬂooded South River Road Thursday duringHurricane Isabel’s rage. Dozens of dead ﬁsh lay across the road after the water receded

BY JEB BROOKS
EDITOR IN CHIEF

. The destructive force of Hurricane Isabel narrowly missed Lex-
ington and Washington and Lee on Thursday night. Areas in the
southeast part of the county were not so lucky.

ACE may cancel frat parties

ROCKBRIDGE COUNTY
South River overflowed its banks and began covering
South River Road prompting authorities to close it late on
Thursday night and into Friday morning. The force of the wa-
ter washed out parts of this road, also known as Virginia 608.
The river is usually no more than a small creek, but it continued

JEB BROOKS / Tbe Rmg-tum Phi

hier, bypasses Lex

to rise until 1:45 on Friday morning, when it reached a crest of 11.6
feet on the gage at Cornwall, which is in the South River district.

According to CJ Norris, a Special Enforcement Ofﬁcer for
Rockbridge County’s Emergency Services division, the event be-
gan with high winds, which picked up and led to some power out-
ages. Norris had been working for 14 hours when he was inter-
viewed. ,

“The areas to the north that we drain got a lot more rain,”Norris said.
This caused South River to become inundated with water and ﬂood

Rockbridge County did not see as much rain as other parts of
Virginia. The weather monitoring station in Vesuvius, Virginia re-
corded ten inches of rain. Norris said that Sherando Lake, near
Waynesboro, recorded approximately 16.6 inches.

The rapidly rising waters had authorities from as far away as
Salem and West Vaco scrambling to get to Rockbridge County. Five
families and two vehicles in the South River district were swiﬁ water
rescued.

LEXINGTON

Damage in Lexington was far less severe. Scattered power out-
ages and two downed trees were the extent of Isabel’s rage on the
city. ‘

The Department of Public Works labored through the night to
ensure that drains and the streets remained clear of debris that fell
due to high winds.

“We were very fortunate,” said David Woody, the Director of
Public Works.

According to Chief of Police, Bruce Beard, the only real damage
was a tree that fell on the SUV of a Lexington resident. The other
downed tree was on a vacant property on South Main Street.

WASHINGTON AND LEE

Washington and Lee lost only one major tree limb, which fell on
Letcher Avenue.

The University’s Physical Plant was out in force overnight in
case they were needed. The department’s director, Scott Beebe, had
ﬁve people on standby, in addition to his regular overnight crew.

“We got all dressed up and no one came to the party,” said
Beebe. He also stated that, “We expended a couple hundred man
hours and picked up ﬂowerpots and boxes — anything that could
become a missile”

Other than a few minor roof leaks, the University’s buildings
were not damaged. .

Williams promoted to Provost

BY CHRIS LAUDERMAN
STAFF WRITER

Fraternities at Washington and Lee are
coming into conﬂict with a section of the
Inter Fraternity Council by-laws. Accord-
ing to by law XI section iii, no fraternity
event shall be scheduled at the same time
as an All Campus Event.

In the past, this has not been a problem
becausee Washington and Lee has had very
few campus events. With the addition of the
Elrod Commons, however, the fratemities
have more competition than just the Student
Activities Board. ,

“This is not a new policy,” said Matt
Jacobs, the Inter Fraternity Council advi-
sor. He went on to say that it was not an
administrative policy, but an IFC policy.
The objective of this IFC law is to have the
campus come together, united, to do ac-
tivities together.

“There really is not that much of a
policy,” explained IFC president, Brian
Castleberry, “The genesis is that fratemi-
ties will not hold band parties at the same
time as SAB band parties.” He went on to
state that the question currently being ex-
amined by the IFC is what_ exactly consti-
tutes an all campus event.

Since most fratemities appeared to be
unaware of this aspect of the IFC by-laws,
fall term is serving as a grace period before
penalties develop. The IFC would like coop-

eration with the fraternities. A party for this
weekend can obviously not be moved, but a
party in late November could, possibly, be
moved. Fraternal organizations must notify
the [F C of their plans, so judicial action will
not occur.

Possible judicial punishment for hav-
ing a party during an All-Campus Event
would include, “one week or two weeks of
social probation, plus a ﬁne, but there is no
penalty spelled out in the by-laws,” said
Jacobs.

The Commons Board will supposedly
give every Greek organization on campus a
calendar of scheduled All Campus Events.
Jacobs said that there would probably only
be about four more all campus events a term
than last year.

Castlebeny agreed and saidthat the huge-
nuInberofIeeentAllCampusEventsisduetothe
Elrod Commons kickoﬂ‘evaIts. .

“It is not a plot to restrict Fraternities
and their social events, it is an extension
of an old policy,” said Jacobs. Castlebeny
stated that this is not that big of an issue.
He feels that respecting events such as A
Night to Remember is reasonable; yet hav-
ing All Campus Events every weekend is
not acceptable.

Greek advisor Theresa Glassman, Jacobs,
and Castleberry are currently loolcing to revise
the IFC constitution. The new constitution
will be more explicit to what represents anAll
Campus Event

BY ELIZABETH ECKMAN
STAFF WRITER

When asked what he enjoys most
about his job as provost, Tom Will-
iams says, “The people. As I’ve
bounced around from professor, to
associate dean, to provost, I have had
to opportunity to work with more and
more wonderful people.

\V1lliams, an integral part of the
Washington and Lee campus since
1974, beganhis careeratVMI in 1971,
where he temporarily taught in the
physics department. During this time,
he also established close ties with the
physics faculty at W&L.

After working as a staff scientist
in Colorado, Williams was invited to
teach at W&L as a physics professor.
This past year, Williams became the
Provost, heading both the College, the
Wrilliams School, and the Law School.
He is involved with the planning pro-
cess at W&L, with both the Dean and
President, and is involved in all as-
pects of academic life at the univer-
sity.

During his many years at Wash-
ington & Lee, Williams has seen many
changes affect the university, includ-
ing the decision to become coeduca-
tional in 1985. He describes this
change as almost “parallel to the cur-

rent discussions over the academic
calendar.”

“The debate over co-education
was in many ways the same as the
alumni was overwhelmingly in favor
of remaining all male, the Board of
Trustees was in favor of remaining
all male, while the faculty felt that
admitting women would improve the
institution, but was concerned about
the quality of students.”

Williams also describes the up-
coming Mock Convention as both a
“serious activity” and the “single
most encompassing academic activ-
ity on campus.” Viewing the conven-
tion as a “special thing,” Williams
hopes that other topics could be-
come equally as exciting.

“While the real thing is so thrill-
ing, as is most things in politics, I
would want to capture that energy
in other topics and perhaps display
such energy more frequently, like
every two years.”

In respect to the recent college
rankings from both the Princeton Re-
view and U.S. News and World Re-
port, Williams doesn’t believe they
can be grouped together. “Rankings
set definitions. I am very often cyni-
cal of the value of rankings. . .as they
can both encourage people lto ook
where they may have not looked

before, but can also discourage stu-
dents from looking at schools.”

Williams, however, maintains,
that you cannot ignore the inﬂu-
ence of such rankings. He said that
Washington and Lee is a unique
school, especially since it is the
only school in the top 25 liberal
arts schools that has both an ac-
credited journalism program and a
law school. And by remaining such
a small school, “the teaching is
personable. At larger schools, you
cannot teach in such an intimate
way.”

Williams, in fact, “would not as-
pire to be number one.” While W&L
has seen much change since its
founding, it has not grown signifi-
cantly. “We have seen steady
change in the academic catalog, with
the introduction of interdisciplinary
programs, such as Women’s stud-
ies, and Environmental studies.” He
also notes that, “Over the years, the
student body has become more ca-
pable and more impressive.”

However, Williams cites that while
the university has changed and will
continue to change, we cannot
change the inherent values of Wash-
ington and Lee, “because by chang-
ing ourselves, we wouldn’t be Wash-
ington and Lee.” '

VOLUME CV1, N0.V1II. I

. o

 

    

PAGE 2

N “l}E"\:‘.-§-<1:i\'Ik\'2..fI..:\\’: 

MONDAY, SEPFEMBER 22, 2003

Construction continues in C—school

The Earnest C. Williams School of Commerce
and Politics has seen several changes over the sum-
mer. Renovations to the outside as well as the
inside are continuing to be made to the structure.

The Administration has set two major goals for
the outside renovation. The ﬁrst is to build a new
handicap ramp at
e———--—‘- the front of the

UNIVERSITY BLUEPRINTS building in a dc-

CHRIS LAUDERMAN ‘O5 °f’“‘a“d““°b‘“_“
""""""""""""""""""""""""""""" " sive manner.This

ramp has been built on the east side of the building next
to the main entrance. It blends in with the landscaping
as it leads to the basement of the Williams School.
The second goal setby theAdministrationistobeau-
tifythewestsidenexttoGrahamLeesnowthattheElnod
Commons is next to the entrance. The old handicap en-
traricethatwrappedaroundthebackofthebuilclirigis
now gone. In its place is anew brickpoitico and staircase.
The Administration wants a clear, unfettered pe-
destrian area between the Elrod Commons and the Wil-
liarns School. A sidewalk and landscaping were added,
andatransforrnerhadtobemoved, tomakethearea
clear of obstacles between the C-School and Commons.
The interior renovation has brought more changes
as well. The overall goal of the interior renovation is to
make the Williarns School more technologically ad-
vanced with “smart classrooms” and more ofﬁces.

  

Commons kickoff exceeds expectations

The basement of the Williarns School now has
two new ofﬁces. “There is a shortage of offices in
the Wﬂliarns School,” explained Joseph Grasso, Vice
President for Administration. On the main ﬂoor,
the old reading room has been divided into two
new rooms. The Colonnade side is now an open
lounge with computer access. The Commons side

 

CORBIN BLACKFORD / Tbe Ring-tum P122"
Brocxm. T'heexitattl'iebackoftheC-Schoolis currentiyforernergencyuseonly.

puter lab is more conducive to learning than the
computers that were in the old reading room.

Other renovations to the inside include classrooms
being retroﬁtted with risers which are supposed to lead
to a better teaching environment LCD projectors have
also been installed in many of the classrooms.

“I like the fact that the old C-School had a
bigger library, but the technology
upgrades were greatly needed,”
said Senior Politics major, Bryan
Early.

“We have accomplished a
great deal in a compressed time
frame,” said Grasso. The Adrnin-
istration is pleased with the al-
most completed project and the
amount of time it took to ﬁnish.

The outside renovations should
be ﬁnished by late September. The
inside renovations are ﬁnished with
the exception of some minor cos-
metic touch-ups that lmve yet to be
made. Acostestimatecould notbe
givenatthistimeforthepiojectbe-

has been converted into a new “smart” classroom.
The third ﬂoor has a new computer lab. The Ad-
ministration feels that the layout of the new com-

cause not all of the invoices have
been turned in to the Administration

The Vlfilliams School, built in 1900, is not
scheduled for a complete renovation at this time.

CORBIN BLACKFORD / Tlze RlIlg—f1I77I P/JZ

 E Stairsn0wgraceti'iebackofﬂ'ie\XﬁliamsScliool

CATHERINE SWAN
STAFF WRITER

After a variety of events in-
cluding movies, book readings,
music, and even a rock climbing
wall, the University Commons
concluded its twelve day kickoff
schedule Sunday.

Planning for the schedule
began last spring term when mem-
bers of the All Campus Events
Committee, orACE, started meet-
ing to discuss possible events.
The goal of the committee was to
provide a variety of activities to
interest all members of the W&L
community, while also showing
how different areas in the build-
ing could be used.

Events have included sev-
eral movies in the 189-seat cin-
ema, book readings by W&L
professors, and football on the
big screen TV in the lounge.
University organizations have
also used the Commons for spe-
cial activities. The Nabors Ser-
vice League, for example, held
an Open House in the Com-
mons Room, and Career Ser-
vices also held an open house
in their new expanded ofﬁces
located on the third ﬂoor of the
Commons.

“Some of the events have
had a lower turnout than we have
hoped, but many have exceeded
our expectations,” said Director
of Student Activities Teresa
Glassman.

One event that proved es-

pecially popular was the Sidewalk
Chalk Competition. The compe-
tition allowed student organiza-
tions to showcase their contribu-
tions to campus life while also

tivities, campus organizations
have been encouraged to spon-
sor some of the kickoff events.
For example, Sigma Nu spon-
sored last week’s Monday Night

HIGHER. Climbers touch the sky as part of the Commons kickoff events.

competing for a $500 prize.
Glassman estimated that almost
170 students participated in the
competition.

In an effort to get more stu-
dents involved in Commons ac-

Football Party in the Commons
Theater. In addition to sponsor-
ing events, campus organiza-
tions have also been using the
rooms in the commons for club
meetings. The facility has been

overwhelmed with reservations
to use the rooms.

Another activity designed
to draw students to the Com-
mons is Common Grounds, the
new version of Java at the GHQ.
Common Grounds will occur ev-
ery Wednesday night from 8:30
to rriidnight. The event will fea-
ture music and drink specials
from the cafe. Last week’s per-
formers were the jazz musicians
of the Dave Kline Band. In the
future, Common Grounds is
looking to seek out entertain-
ment from W&L student musi-
cians.

The Commons staff plans
to continue to provide enter-
tainment and activities to the
W&L community in order to
make use of the new facility.
Their aim is to have activities
available to students on the
nights they have time to relax,
such as Wednesday, Friday, and
Saturday.

“The goal is to create a vi-
brant center of community for the
campus and to bring the students
and faculty together, so that they
don’t have to join a Greek orga-
nization just to have that sense
of community,” said Acting Di-
rector of the University Com-
mons Leroy Atkins. “It’s doing
what we want it to do — to have
people pass through all day, all
week long.”

“I ﬁnd it very encouraging
that people are choosing to spend
time here,” said Atkins.

Futrell named dean of housing, minority affairs

BY IMRAN NAEEMULLAH
CONTRIBUTING EDITOR

With the opening of this school year, Washington and Lee stu-
dents have witnessed many changes, most obviously the new Uni-
versity Commons. Yet physical plant changes are only the surface of
what’s different at W&L this year, because virtually the entire Dean
of Students’ ofﬁce was reshufﬂed this summer.

After Dean Courtney Penn left W&L last year to take a position with
Head Start in Roanoke, his position as Assistant Dean of Housing and
Minority Affairs became vacant and a replacement was necessary. The
new dean of students, former dean of freshmen Dawn Watkins, found who
she needed just down the road: Tamara Futrell of Hollins University.

At Hollins, Futrell served most recently as direc-
tor of ﬁrst and second year programs, coordinating
housing as well as assisting students with their tran-
sition to college life. Prior to joining the residence life
staff at Hollins, Futrell earned a master’s degree in
education with an emphasis on college community
counseling from Longwood College (now University)
in Farmville, VA. She obtained her bachelor’s degree
in psychology from Virginia Commonwealth Univer-
sity in Richmond, where she was a member of the
Class of 1994. ANewport News native, Futrell is very
happy to be in Lexington at W&L, where she’s pleased to ﬁnd everyone
so friendly and welcoming.

Futrel1’s path to W&L was helped greatly by friendship, as "it
happens. She met Deans Watkins and Penn a couple of years ago at
a conference where they agreed to meet again later to discuss profes-
sional issues. Watkins invited her to W&L, where she introduced her
to the rest of the staff in the dean’s ofﬁce, and invited her to help
conduct a workshop for resident assistants (R-As). After Penn left,
Futre1l’s name came up as a natural replacement, and Futrell accepted
the job without hesitation. She says that W&L is such a wonderful
institution, and she was also very much attracted to the idea of work-
ing with Dean Watkins, whom she characterizes as a great boss and
leader.

In her first couple of weeks on the job, Futrell had to commute
between Roanoke and Lexington until she moved to Lexington, which

 

made getting to work a bit challenging. More signiﬁcantly, she says,
she was very familiar with Hollins but everything at W&L was very
new. Of course, she feels completely at home now that she’s ﬁgured
out how the pieces of the puzzle, so to speak, ﬁt together.

In her first year at W&L, she faces many challenges, not the
least of which is to listen to what everyone has to say and learn
from them. She enjoys hearing student voices and wants to make
sure she is viewed as accessible. From an administrative stand-
point, she plans on reevaluating university policies on housing,
particularly with regard to clarifying policies and changing the tim-
ing of the lottery system and room deposits. These are issues, she
says, which have come up in the recent past so she’d like to try and
prevent them in the future.

In the long run, she has two major goals, both of which relate to
her capacity in minority affairs. The first is that she wants to make
sure that underrepresented groups at W&L, like racial minorities and
gays and lesbians, feel comfortable and that they have resources to
go to if they need help. Her second goal relates to minority freshmen
in particular because, she says, going to college is a hard enough
transition without factoring in being a minority when previously you
might have been in the majority. She aims to serve as a contact point
for freshmen and other students who might need a little extra help
adjusting to college life. 4

When she’s not at work, Futrell enjoys spending quiet time at
home and socializing in Roanoke. Both her church, St. Matthew’s
Word of Life, and her sorority’s graduate chapter are located there,
and she sees those two places as her primary social outlets. She is a
member of Alpha Kappa Alpha, a black sorority. As a graduate, she
attends social functions for graduates and performs volunteer work,
all the while continuing to pay dues. As for the proposed chapter of
AKA at W&L, Futrell says this is still in the works, although a recent
lawsuit against AKA has temporarily halted recruitment.

While she plans on remaining at W&L for some time to come,
eventually Futrell would like to be president of Spelman College in
Atlanta. She feels that her position at Washington and Lee places
her ideally, career-wise, for this move. W&L has a long tradition of
breeding successful people; perhaps as an honorary alurrma, Futrell
will do W&L proud later in life. For now, W&L is pleased to be the
beneficiary of her no doubt considerable talents.

Delegations begin
recruitment this week

BY ANN BANKER
STAFF WRITER

The‘ Mock Convention is holding its State Delegate Fair on
Wednesday, September 24"‘ in Doremus Gymnasium from 104. All
Washington and Lee students, law school and undergraduate
alike, are encouraged to come and join the state delegation of their
choice. This event serves as perhaps the easiest and most impor-
tant opportunity students have to get involved.

Convention chairman Noah Rhodes is hopeful for a large
turnout: “We want to sign up over 1500 people. . .the whole idea is
to involve everyone in the school.”

By signing up for a delegation, a student will get to help with
the research of their respective state, build the state ﬂoat with the
rest of the delegation, receive a state t—shiit, attend state parties,
a n d more.

  
 
 
 
 
 
 

The most important aspect of
signing up for a delegation lies
in the fact that it guarantees
admission into the actual con-

vention} Students will sit to-
gether in their delegation
sections, rather than in the
general admissions bleachers
which could potentially close once the convention reaches maxi—'
mum capacity. By joining a state delegation. students have an
absolute guarantee into the convention.

The cost to join a state delegation is $25 (which conveniently
swipes home). In selecting a state to join, Political Chairman
Michael Denbow suggests students pick a state that they feel
represents them. Denbow pointed out that often groups of friends
collaborate on which state to sign up for while other students feel
a special loyalty to their own home state.

If for some reason students cannot attend the Delegation
Fair on Wednesday, there will be an online registration that can be
accessed by going to‘ the Mock Convention website
(www.mockcon.wlu.edu).

MOCK CON, FROM PAGE 1

event, several arriazing items will be raffeled off, including various
trips and gifts from Lexington businesses.

The Convention itself is naturally accompanied by numerous
activities. There will be a parade Friday morning in which each
delegation will provide a ﬂoat. Speakers will follow the parade
later in the afternoon, in addition to additional outside entertain-
merit.

The convention itself will be Saturday, January 31. At the
convention, students in the delegations enter the delegation’s
predication. As Noah Rhodes states, “The whole idea is to in-
volve everyone at school.” For those of you who aren’t involved,
go to the state delegation fair next Wednesday. This monumental
event will be even more rewarding and exciting if you are some-
what involved. For more information about W&L’s Mock Con-
vention visit its website at mockcon.wlu.edu.

Pipe possiby at Beta

BY ERIN JULIUS
NEWS EDITOR

While making his normal rounds at the Beta Theta Pi house
on Friday night, Security Ofﬁcer RexRode found a drug-related
device.

“Rex was wandering through the house and apparently found
something like a pipe,” said Beta Theta Pi President Seth Martin.

Higher authorities have not gotten involved. “The house is
dealing with it internally,” said Martin.

Martin said that the matter will probably be brought before
the InterFraterriity Council. “I assume they’ll be comfortable with
the fact that it’s being dealt with internally,” said Martin.

Martin said that Beta Theta Pi would get the lFC’s input on
what an appropriate punishment would be for the individual who
possessed the illicit implement.

“The individual will probably get social probation,” said
Martin. He also said that the house would look to the IFC for
guidance on how long the individual’s punishment should last.

At press time, neither the IFC nor University Security were
available for comment.

 

 

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 22, 2003



No large classes at W&L

What is it makes Washington and Lee
one of the top 25 liberal arts colleges in the
country? We, as well as prospective stu-
dents, choose to come to this University
because of excellent professors, unique
educational opportunities and the individual
attention we receive in small classes (at
least in terms of academics).

But with the advent of the Commons,
small classes are no longer a staple here at
Washington and Lee, as large, auditoriurn-
style lectures are now made possible. In-
troductory chemistry, biology and journal-
ism classes are all being taught in the movie
theater on the Woods Level of the Com-
mons. Multiple sections of these introduc-
tory classes were combined and crammed
into the theater. The Phi has three main
objections.

At Washington and Lee, at least, the-
aters are meant to be used to watch mov-
ies— not to teach classes. Let’s leave that
to the huge, dark citadels of the Ivy League.
The irnpersonality of 1 15 people in one class
ﬂies in the face of the educational values
of W&L. There is very little discussion and
even less one-on-one interaction between
a student and professor———the very experi-
ence that makes real leaming possible.

It may be argued that these are only
introductory classes. Students will have
plenty of time to fonn bonds with their pro-
fessors when they take courses later in
their college careers. We are not, however,
at a huge research or post-graduate school
and do not expect to be subjected to lec-
ture halls. Students come to W&L expect-
ing to learn by interaction with their profes-
sors and peers, whether the number of the
course is 101 or 390. Just last year, intro-
ductory classes lent themselves to such in-
teraction. Shoving 100+ students into athe-
ater suifocates any communication that
should, and could, take place in intro classes.

We posit that although the theater may
temptthe administration to design large, lec-
ture-hall-style classes, this should be
avoided. Large classes may be slightly more
efﬁcient, but much of what makes this Uni-
versity unique is lost as the
“Swarthmoriﬁcation” of W&L marches on.
Freshmen and others in introductory classes
do not deserve to be just another face in a
theater. They deserve to have the individual
attention that we all demand and expect at
Washington and Lee.

   

te of the Week

“You shouldn’t be governor unless you can
pronounce the name of the state.”

~Gov. Gray Davis (D-Calif)

  PHI

Editor in chief Jeb Brooks
Assistant Editor Kyle Wass
News Editor Erin Julius
Opinions Editor Caley Anderson
Arts & Life Editor Megan Morgan
Photography Editor Cody Gabbard
Sports Editor Allison Perry
Asst. Sports Editor John Hyland

Production Assistants Emily Edwards
Hilary Henry
Chad Kiewiet de Jonge
Anne Iadarola
Katie Howell

 

Copy Editor
Editorial Director

Business Manager
Circulation Director Hm;-y G;-imbau
Distribution Dir. Thomas Worthy

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during
the undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee
University, Lexington, Virginia. The Washington and
Lee Publications Board elects the Editor in chief, but
The Ring-tum Phi is otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible sub-
missions and letters. All submissions must be e-mailed
to phi@wluedu or in the University Center mailbox by
5 p.m. Friday to appear in the following week’s edition.
The Ring-tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions
for content and length. Letters and columns do not
necessarily reﬂect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi
Editorial Board. Advertising does not reﬂect the opin-
ions of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper
observes current court deﬁnitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
University Commons Rm. 341
Washington and Lee University

Lexington, Virginia 24450

Telephone: (540) 458-4060
Fax.‘ (540) 458-4059
Email: phi@wIu.edu

Paul Seifert

rarz Rljl\’2t.'§-’.‘i"'E..‘:lB»»l_ Par

PINIONS
radition dep

 

CAIEYANDERSON
OnN1oNsF.onoR

ends on frosh commitment

FMAmANDEr2soNo@wwmU

PAGE 3

FILE Prrorro

STOP AND STARE. Washington and Lee students of yesteryear extend the speaking tradition to the entire corps of VMI cadets.

Every year the same cry for help comes at about
this‘ time. Some eager student writes about the
impending death of the Speaking Tradition. This
year, that someone is me.

It hurts to walk past someone, say hello and
get nothing in return. I literally

 

Sadly, I don’t think that is the case. I am will-
ing to bet that others would agree with me that our
hallowed habit of saying hello is on the way out,
unless we take collective action. However, this is
not a dead issue. There is still time to save it.

In the age of cell phones, MP3

cringeatthe image. Sadly,thisis  players and the deluge who-
arelatively common occurrence ‘ knows—what devices that go in
in my life. In fact, recently I  your ear and make noise, it is easy

 

passed a freshman wearing a
“SPEAK” shirtwwhodid not respond to my
acknowlegment. .I.don’.t think it gets much worse

than that.

Perhaps my greeting is not loud enough, maybe
I should yell next time. Maybe I’m just an invisible
and easily ignored person.

Maybe I’m wrong. Could the end of the Speak-
ing Tradition just be in my head? Is it just happen-
ing to me? Are all of you being greeted, and I’m not?

to block out your neighbor com-
pletely. It’s simple to just walk on by without

cementing our unique sense of community in 

your own mind. Washington and Lee is special
because it is small. Small enough that we should
want to recognize each other on the street as W&L-
ers. Why can’t we say, “hi” or “what’s up?” Is that
too diﬂicult? Surely not.

I don’t want to be on a soapbox in holier-than-
thou fashion. I just want to encourage us all to

take part in what many consider our most cherished
southern tradition. I love the sense of community
here; nothing makes me happier than to walk down
the colonnade and greet and be greeted by my friends
and fellow W&L-ers.

It looks stupid when one person walks by, says
hello and is not greeted back. It could even hurt the
feelings of the greeter. Is there any good reason to
do that?

Freshmen: you hold the power here. The phrase,
‘you can’t teach an old dog new tricks” ﬁts per-
fectly. The “old dogs” are the Sophomores, Juniors
and Seniors. It’s awfully easy to get stuck in the I ’m-
not-going-to-greet mentality and not ever clamber
out. Frosh, I beg you, don’t do it, don’t fall victim to
what too many of us have. Say “hello,” say “what’s
up,” say something, anything. In the classic words
of one of the greatest advertising campaigns of all
time, just do it.

File sharing wrong, but RIAA not right

As returning Washington
and Lee students have no doubt
noticed, ﬁle shari_ng is becoming
a more and more serious issue by
the minute. The Recording In-
dustry Association of America
(RIAA) has begun to level law-
suits at users of peer to peer ﬁle
sharing programs like Sharman
Networks affiliates Kazaa and

_l\IIorpheus, which allow free

downloading of media files, in-
cluding music and video.

The RIAA’s stance on the
whole issue is simple and quite un-
derstandable. Programs such as
Kazaa allow users to get a hold of
copyrighted music, video, and
other media that they would other-
wise have to pay for. When a user
of a peer to peer program allows
another user to download a copy-
righted music ﬁle, he or she is»es-
sentially infringing on the copy-
right of the artist who holds the
intellectual property rights to the
song in question. This deprives
the artist of fair compensation for
their work, and thus is obviously
illegal. Speaking as a former user,
I understand that ﬁle-sharing is not
a victimless crime, and I know that
by wiping ﬁle sharing programs off
my system, I did the right thing.

This does not change my
opinion, however, that the

RIAA’s methods and motives
behind this hunt for ﬁle sharers
are extraordinarily questionable.
Firstly, they wish to “want to
send a strong message that the
illegal distribution of copy-
righted works has conse-
quences.” They believe that by
targeting users who share a large
number of ﬁles and making them
examples, they can discourage
others from using peer to peer
programs. Fair enough. What’s
not fair is that they’re asking for
large cash settle-
ments from their
targets, who of-
ten didn’t even
know that they
were doing any wrong. A threat
ofa lawsuit to speciﬁc individu-
als, or perhaps some sort of
cease and desist order would be
far more civil.

In one case, the RIAA
squeezed $2,000 out of the fam-
ily ofa 12-year old girl who lived
in a low—income housing project,
and whose mother qualiﬁed for
welfare. Way to go, RIAA, I can
tell that this is really about pro-
tecting the artists and not about
money. If you’re a struggling,
starving college students (not
likely at W&L, but let’s open our
minds here), you can expect the

  
 

MoDERArE’s MUSINGS
QnnAmEnoN‘06 not the wicked,

wonderful folks at the RIAA to
demand $15,000-$17,000 in order
to call off their legal hounds. To
review: in the RIAA’s opinion,
it’s perfectly ﬁne to suck $2,000
out of a family that’s not getting
by as it is, but it would be dread-
ful, absolutely dreadful to de-
prive the wealthy officials and
stars of the music industry of the
about $4 an album that they get.
Perhaps they REALLY needed
the money in order to finish pay-
ing off their beachside man-
sions.

Secondly, the
root problem here is
—m_”M~"l freeloading nature
ofpeople (that’sjust apithy cata-
lyst). The problem is that the
popular music industry these
days promotes mostly trash.
That's why people aren’t buy-
ing CDs, and that’s why the mu-
sic industry is hurting. Musical
mediocrity is the standard of
today’s big names, names like
Britney, Christina, Justin, J-Lo,
and, of course, the list goes on
and on. You better believe that
the same people who use brib-
ery and unfair business prac-
tices to keep artless wonders
like these on the air (aka Clear
Channel Communications) are

quite in league with this assault
on ﬁle sharing. This is not only
because they lose money off of
it, it’s also because file-sharing
poses a threat to their extremely
poor quality throne atop the mu-
sical world. How so? Kazaa
(and Napster before it) not only
let users download popular
songs, it allowed up-and-com-
ing bands to upload songs for
public listening. In this way,
new, out of the mainstream
bands could gain recognition
and popularity. The RIAA
(which represents musicians
who have already “made it”) no
doubt sees this as a threat to
their precious stranglehold on
the industry, and that’s defi-
nitely an ulterior motive of
theirs for this lawsuit. Better to
have popular trash remain popu-
lar than to replace it with some-
thing a little more artful.

So again, thanks, RIAA, for
protecting us from the evil,
greedy 12-year olds of the
world. I hope you enjoy that
$2,000 you wrung out of her, and
I look forward to sighing at the
next “artist” that you churn out
of your musical crap factory.
I’ve wiped my hands of file-shar-
ing, but that still doesn’t mean
I’ll buy your CDs.

 
  
  
  
 
 

FILE SHARING AND THE RIAA: THE FAcrs

. Twenty percent of that
Elgggilfllleugiecligelll 85% is legally avail-
 released by 5 RIAA ' able at any given time,

 labels, the other 15% the ‘est ‘5 13°14 ‘“
comprises less than lesellfe’ but ls llﬁell
1% of all music sales avallable vla ﬁle
' sharing programs.

 

   
 

DATA PROVIDED BY hymtiriaa. org AND riaaorg

Since file sharing
became an issue,

l ; sales of CDs have
declined by 9.4%.

 

 

  

PAGE 4

O ’.‘iil~ aw >r=:-M332 if

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 22, 2003

Commons criticism unjustiﬁed

Frankly, I’m tired of the
negativity and trivial nitpick-

ing that’s been swirling around

our new University Commons.
I feel it is time
that the stu-
dents read
something en- '
tirely positive
about the
John W. Elrod University Com-
mons.

While I am only a Fresh-
man, and do not have the luxury
of providing an in-depth com-
parison to the old D-Hall and
co-op, I was a summer scholar
two years ago and had some
limited exposure to these out-
dated facilities. For those
Freshman that have yet to step
foot inside the old D-Hall, ven-
ture inside one day when you
have some free time. It’s remi-
niscent of a super sized bingo
hall at your local retirement
home. Once inside, visit the
crawl space in the rear of the
building where students

 

_ SLICE ON LIFE
 .- NICK MANNINO ‘O7

picked up their food each day.
This relatively closed-air par-
tition served well for those of
us who wanted to hit the sauna
‘ before we ate.
The average
temperature in
that room dur-
ing cooking
hours must

Nabors
Service
Day

October
4th,
2003

Help out

your
community

Contact
perinij@wlu.edu

Nabors
Service
League

terms, the new dining area
kicks ass.

Another portion of the Com-
mons that has been under at-
tack lately is the café/empo-
rium. While I must admit the
prices are pretty steep for the
portions of food served, is
money really a major concern
for the majority of students at

with a greater reading selec-
tion, augmented apparel sec-
tion, and an entire ﬂoor dedi-
cated to student textbooks.
As some of you have read
in previous articles, buying
textbooks in the old bookstore
was like visiting the DMV; you
weren’t going anywhere fast.
Other highlights of the

oward of the Week V

An irregular‘ ii:1*21ﬂ3}’s;‘ of the Riizguizzn-2 Piaf X

MLB Commissioner Bud Selig C

 

€32.23: }?$§°2 Yeast -

Sit}: 3'§}i8.Si’i ‘tears
§.&$€}.%3§.‘?’?3i§

may maples €t'i3.3.'3.=£§§m

 

T/ie Cutting
Ecfge

Men anzf Women
Styli: Cuts
Cfipper Cuts

Compkte Hair Care jbr

Manicure
Q’eJicure
‘Waxing

Complete Qocfy Care

11 7 ‘W. Wefson St.
Lexington, ‘V/I
463-9588
Cbse to Campus
(Professiona[.$‘al2m witli a
?ersona[‘Toucﬁ!

    
 
  
 

been agitating for university admin-
istrations to stop selling apparel
manufactured in so-called sweat-
shops, stop accepting money from
unsavory corporate donors and to

working groups’ reports and voted
to keep a 12-12-6 calendar, the
choice of the professors is neither
binding nor indicative of the deci-
sion the Board will make.

of our re-

served and comparatively serene
student body, the inconvenience
and aggravation dealt to the Board
by a sit-in or protest might be

have been ninety-five degrees. Washington and Lee? Not to Commons include agame room, 1:
You could break out in a sweat generalize, but I’m pretty con- theatre, and plenty of comfort-
lifting your tray off the stor- fident that for those of us who able alcoves for your late-night
age rack. Okay, so I’m exagger- use the café/emporium as an studying needs.
ating a little, but you get the occasional substitute for the Hopefully by now you C”
point. dining hall, it’s more than af- hold the Commons in higher
Our new dining area in the fordable. regard. I challenge any of you
Commons makes the old D- Not to mention the sitting to find a liberal arts college
Hall feel like a prison cafete- ‘area is infinitely more comfort- of this size with such an amaz-
ria. While some say the design able than the plastic booths in mg facility. While some fea- it
is ﬂawed, I think it is an archi- the old co-op. Speaking of the tures of the building may not Commissioner Selig, the man in charge of pro baseball, would
tectural masterpiece. The co-op, have you fellow Fresh- be essential to the life of a not reverse his decision this week to seek contraction (essentially
oversized windows provide men had the opportunity to see W&L student, they sure are the destruction) of several MajorLeagueBaseballtearns, including
much welcomed light for us di- that joke they called a book— a wonderful luxury to have the MinnesotaTwins and Montreal Expos.The elimination ofthese
urnal beings, and the spa— store situated right next door? available. So enjoy the barnd two teams from the region would doubtless benefit the team that
cious, unconfined section I honestly think some stu- new John W. Elrod University Selighimselfowns—theMilwaukeeBrewers.Hiscowardly,back-
where food is served is liber- dents’ bedrooms at home are Commons for all it’s worth, handed attemptto beneﬁt his struggling franchise atthe expense of
ating compared to the old bur- of the same size. The new book— and please, stop being so the exciting Expos and division-leading Twins is just what baseball
row of a food line. In layman store is atwo-ﬂoor work of art, nitpicky. doesn’t need as attendance continues to drop. 1:
S ° T d1 (1 d d t' t’
g
s
I
.1
A
)r
PHOTO COURTFSY averfzr .e 14
WHAT WE NEED NOW. Haverford students protesting issues related to the “institutionalization of diversity” on the Haverford College campus in 1977. "it _
This weekend, Yale came to an call publicly for an end to the war In fact, sources close to the enough to convince them of the se-
agreement with its custodial and on terrorism. Some efforts have been Board report that the decision to riousness of our desire to see our
restaurant unions after a lengthy more successful than others, but eliminate our beloved Spring Term beloved Spring Term left intact. Di-
contract dispute. After nearly three students, with few responsibilities in favor ofa two semester calendar. rect action might be the only method
weeks without residential dining and lots of free time, have made the The Trustees will be coming to still available to us by which we
halls, Yale students best of their opportu- campus for their Fall Meeting Octo- could draw from the Board a com-
will once again be RI nities to prevail on a ber 23-25. Students should use that mitment to preserve Spring Term and
. GHT OF THE AISLE , . . . . . . . . .
able to enjoy ho campus elite opinion. opportunity to deliver to them a mes- to making its renewal a financial pri-
breakfasts rather ' BRETT KIRWAN ‘04 In our bucolic slice sage that thousands of signatures ority, regardless of the vote of the
than the bagels and of heaven, socks-and- on petitions, polite letters from the faculty.
apples to which they had become ac- sandaled advocacy for such wrong— EC and deferential articles in the Phi Too often, other students at-
customed. Undergraduate Bulldogs headed left-liberal causes would cannot. The October meeting may, tract national news to their cam-
made common cause with the unions hardly be appropriate or necessary in fact, be time for W&L students to puses because of ill-considered and
to demand that the university pro— (or easy to get students to partici- imitate the tac- protests supporting
vide a more generous pension plan pate in, for that matter). However, tics of physi- “ silly causes. Come Oe-
and betterjob security. these examples of student protest cal protest so Come October)“/&L tober, Washington and
In December of 2001, Harvard around the country can teach us successfully Wm Lee students will have
students staged a weeks-long sit-in what Generals might be called on to used by stu- Students have an an opportunity to show
to force the administration to exam- do to save our beloved Spring Term. dents at other  to Show that that student protest can
me whether it provided the Today, the faculty voted to send universities. be used for the aca-
university’s employees with a “liv- a calendar recommendation to the Although student protest can be demic benefit of a uni-
ing wage” and were successful in Board ofTrustees. The results were such mean , versity. In our case, to
convincing the administration to not available at press time and while strategy is 11SCd fOI.' IhC ﬂC21(lCfI'11C demand that the Board
raise the average wage. one certainly hopes that the faculty typically not , - - ,, preserve the ﬂexibility,
Students across the nation have heeded the advice of the calendar the province b€11€ﬁt0f3l1ﬂ1V€f51tY« breadth of offerings

and endless opportuni-
ties for travel and unique study that
Spring Term offers requires our best
efforts, even the extreme of student
protest.

  
      
   

I'3"'i'%:-in-' 'i"Zm;.i~a. ..  I 

 

 

   
 

iviiaiiiiiéiﬁ T§2=ii¥?‘i?3t~i555="‘;%§i   Me  "  it‘-l-:';"»»  lint fiéik-ﬁilitss,-*‘ 3 .
Fixi:ﬁr£a::e'r';ing   ’fEii.§%ii%£ ":i‘:.135.i§al’5.i}‘.<  smiths iiiia use A ’

ti-

 

.._:.¢i-g,,§,t°k:ur~ i::§j’r;1.i! i*é‘riiint‘r2i-ii;i~i“rig.

'   

for The Ring-tum Phi

Call x4060 or email

Write

phi@wlu.edu '

 

-4’k

  

AursoNPBzRY
Srons Enrror

EMAll:PERRYAlV@WlUE)U

MONDAY, SEl’I'El\/[BER 22, 2003

 Rex;-net Per

PORTS

PAGE 5

Women’s Soccer wins in shut out over Lynchburg

BY Ar.L1soN PERRY
SPORTS EDITOR ‘

Hurricane Isabel could not keep’ the Washing-
ton and Lee women’s soccer team from improving
their record this weekend to 4-0 and 3-0 in the ODAC.

The Generals defeated the nationally ranked
Lynchburg team 1-0 on Saturday. The game was
originally scheduled for Friday but was rained
out.

Washington and Lee also defeated Emory and
Henry 7-0 on Tuesday.

The first half did not see any scoring, but Wash-
ington and Lee sophomore Kerry Giblin scored the
only goal of the game soon after the second half
started. Giblin recovered the ball after freshman Anne
Wiltshire’s shot rebounded off Lynchburg goal
keeper Erin Johnson.

Junior goal keeper Emily Barker had 3 saves in
the game. Johnson had one save.

“We never gave up the entire game,” said Barker.
“We challenged everything.”

Lynchburg led in shots with 13, while the Gen-
erals only had seven. The Hornets’ had 3 shots on

Men’s soccer defeats

goal. Alison Phillips, Jessica Coles, and Christina
DiLiddo contributed one shot on goal each.

Washington and Lee had two shots on goal.
Vlfrltshire had one shot on goal, and Giblin’s goal
counted as the other.

Lynchburg had 22 fouls, while the Generals had
12. Hornets junior defender Taryn Wyckoﬁf received
a yellow card.

Scoring goals for Washington and Lee in the game
against Emory and Henry on Tuesday were VV1ltshire,
freshman Cara Burton, sophomore Conner Esworthy,
freshman Sarah Helms, junior Maggie Hope, senior
Fontaine Marooux, and freshman Maggie Megear.

Helrnshadtwo assists, while Marcoux,ﬁ‘eshmanBlair
Haws, and sophomore Heather Rogers had one assist each

Freshman Emily Binns stayed in the goal for the
Generals, making 2 saves. ,

The Generals meet up with Hollins on Tuesday,
September 23 at 4:30 p.m. in Roanoke.

Hollins was picked to ﬁnish eleventh in the ODAC
preseason poll. But Barker says the team works hard
preparing for every game.

“We are going to do what we normally do and
get focused,” Barker said. “We are going to get ready
to come out strong.”

Kerry Giblin

Skills. junior Maggie Hope Outsmarts a player.

Generals face trouble with Tigers

Ferrum and Catholic

BY JOHN HYLAND
ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITOR

The W&L men’s soccer
team had a strong showing this
week, notching two victories to
improve its record to 3-0 and
poise itself for the upcoming
ODAC season.

The Generals traveled to
Ferrum College on Tuesday.
W&L got off to a quick start and

, never looked back.

Junior forward Brian Pirkle
opened the scoring just ten min-
utes into the game off a pass from
junior midﬁelder and fellow cap-
tain Justin Mygatt.

The Generals widened their
lead when Pirkle fed senior
midﬁelder Jacob Stoehr who
found the back of the net for a 2-
0 lead. It would be all the scoring
that W&L would need.

Junior Chris Carlson and
sophomore Michael Stanton
combined for the shutout in goal
with a total of four saves. It was
clear that the Generals dominated
from the opening minute out
shooting Fenum 25-7.

The Generals were sup-
posed to travel to Washington
D.C. last Friday to face Catholic
University but thanks to Hurri-
cane Isabel the game was re-
scheduled to Saturday aﬂemoon
in Lexington.

The Generals were able to
open their home season on their
brand new ﬁeld .a little early and
an enthusiastic home crowd
greeted them.

Once again, W&L got off to
a very quick start as Pirkle scored
just 3:35 into the game off a feed
from Mygatt. Pirkle extended the
lead with an unassisted goal
twenty minutes into the first half.

The Generals received an-
other insurance goal from Mygatt
on an assist from freshman for-
ward Sandy Piracci.

The Cardinals scored a
meaningless goal at the end of
the second half to avoid the shut-
out and close the scoring at 3-1.

The Generals controlled

nearly every facet of the game,
attacking loose balls and out
shooting the Cardinals 25-3, forc-
ing Carlson and Stanton to only
make a save apiece.

W&L is off to its beststart
since the 2000 team began the
season with seven wins. That
team was loaded with talented,
experienced players en route to a
19-2 record, winning the ODAC
championship and reaching the
second round of the NCAA tour-
nament.

This team has a total of ﬁve
juniors and only one senior and
was picked to ﬁnish ﬁlth out of
ten teams in the preseason
ODAC poll.

One of those upperclass-
men, junior midﬁelder Josh Grahe,
believes this team has experi-
enced great success because “we
have great chemistry and have
really come together offen-
sively.”

Clearly, the offense has
clicked as the Generals have been
pelting goalies with almost
twenty shots a game and control-
ling the ball, putting minimal pres-
sure on their defense. V

The Generals have also got-
ten the most out of their few up-
perclassmen. Pirkle, Stoehr and
Mygatt have combined to tally
18 of the Generals 19 total points.

Pirkle, in particular, has been
on ﬁre. The local product has four
goals and an assist on the year
and has scored the game winner
in ever game.

The defense has also been
solid, allowing just‘ two goals in
three games and is also led by a
pair of juniors in Co-captain Pe-
ter Miller and Carlson, who have
led an otherwise young and in-
experienced group.

Grahe added, “This is just
where we wanted to be heading
into the ODAC season.”

Hopefully the Generals can
continue their streak with the
stakes even higher as they open
their ODAC schedule with a home
game this Wednesday against
Eastern Mennonite.

: FILE PHOTO

Escape. Senior quarterback Peter Dean ﬁghts a sack. Dean was only sacked twice in Saturday’s game.

BY ALLISON PERRY
sPORTs EDITOR

The Washington and Lee Men’s football team fell to Sewanee
37-13 in a non-conference match-up on Saturday in Tennessee.

On WLUR 91.5, Coach Frank Miriello commented on
Sewanee freshman quarterback Wes Satterﬁeld. Miriello said
Satterﬁeld has a lot of height and can pass pretty well.

But Satterﬁeld did more running on" Saturday than passing,
rushing for 114 yards and 3 touchdowns. He also completed 10
out of 15 passes for a total of 91 yards.

Sewanee got on the board ﬁrst when senior running back
Justin Askew ran 27 yards for a touchdown early in the ﬁrst quar-
ter. Sophomore kicker Jake Roberts made the extra point to give
the Tigers a 7-0 lead.

Washington and Lee senior quarterback Peter Dean came
back in the middle of the second quarter with a one yard touch-
down run to put the score at 7-6.

Satterﬁeld rushed for another touchdown three minutes
later, but the kick for the extra point failed. On the ensuing drive,
Sewanee freshman Harlan Hickerson recovered a Washington and
Lee fumble. Roberts kicked a 47 yard ﬁeld goal to put the score at
16-6.

Washington and Lee senior Ted Maﬂitt then picked up a
Sewanee fumble with 51 seconds left in the half to give the Gener-
als the ball within the 10 yard line. But the turning point in the

game came when Sewanee sophomore comerback, Mike Glanton,
intercepted Dean’s pass in the ﬂat, running 98 yards for the touch-
down as time expired. Roberts’ kick was good, and instead of seeing
their lead cut, the Tigers went into the half leading 23-6.

With 5:03 leﬂ in the third quarter, Washington and Lee
sophomore wide receiver Clark Kensinger caught a 22 yard pass from
Dean to score the ﬁnal touchdown for the Generals. Freshman kicker
Ben Long made the extra point.

Satterﬁeld rushed for two more touchdowns, one of them
being a 43 yard run. Roberts made the kick each time. Sewanee junior
Deon Carter intercepted a Dean pass with about eleven minutes left
in the game, ending a W&L scoring drive and setting up the Tigers’
ﬁnal touchdown. .

Dean passed for 101 yards, completing 10 out of 18 attempts
and one touchdown. He ran the ball in for the other touchdown and
threw two interceptions.

Freshman running back Richard Garland led the Generals in
rushing with 39 yards. Junior Chris Cararnore rushed for 33 yards.
For the defense, junior linebacker Lloyd Wilson recorded 12 tackles.

For the Tigers’ defense, senior Alex Cain had two sacks.

The Generals will play Centre in a non-ODAC game next
Saturday, September 27 at 1:00 at home on Wilson Field.

Senior captain Scott Kucinski thinks the team can keep a
positive attitude and start fresh this week.

“We hope to get things rolling in the ODAC,” Kucinski
said. “Hopefully things will be better when we start playing those
games.”

SCHEDULE

-8:45

Tuesday, September 23
Golf hosts Buck Leslie Invitational-

Wornens soccer at Hollins- -4:30
Volleyball vs. Randolph-Macon
Womans College--6:30

-44:00

Wednesday, September 24

Mens soccer vs. Eastern Mennonite-

Field Hockey at Sweet Briar--TBA

-11:00

-3:00

TBA

Saturday, September 27
Men's soccer vs. Hampden-Sydney-
Women's soccer at M. Washington-

Football vs. Centre- -1 :00
Volleyball at Emory- - 1 1 :30
Women's tennis at Rolex Regional - —

Sunday, September 28

Women's soccer vs. Mary Baldwin-
-2:00

Women's tennis at Rolex Regional-
- TBA

 

 

. spectively.

  

PAGE 6 S ‘.=zE*.lL“.-2:-'5‘: i.rl1‘:~:=.

PORTS

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 22, 2003

Volleyball improves
to 7-0, 3-0 in ODAC

FROM STAFF REPORTS

The Washington and Lee volleyball team im-
proved its record to 7-0 overall and 3-0 in the
ODAC this week. The Generals defeated Sweet
Briar 3-0, Emory and Henry 3-0, and Eastern Men-
nonite 3-0.

Washington and Lee knocked off Sweet
Briar on the road Tuesday in sets of 30-16, 30-19,
and 30-21.

Junior Michelle Chastain had eleven kills
and seven digs. Junior Emily Wolﬁng posted eight
kills and eight digs. Sophomores Ashleigh Overly
and Christine Gladysz had nine kills and 18 assists,
respectively.

On Thursday, the Generals defeated
Emory and Henry with game scores of 30-18, 30-19,
and 30-21 .

Chastain posted 14 kills and eight digs.
Sophomore Susan Gaillard had ten kills. Wolfmg
notched nine kills and nine digs. Gladysz also had
nine digs and 43 assists.

Washington and Lee also beat Eastern
Mennonite on Saturday with sets of 30-20, 30-15,
and 30-21 .

Chastain had 16 kills and nine digs.
Gladysz and sophomore Laura Byme posted seven
kills and ten digs, and 24 assists and ten digs, re-

The Generals play again on Tuesday at
6:30 p.m. in Warner Center against Randolph-Ma-
con Woman’s College.

THE LONG LOST ARM. Sophomore Christine Gladysz goes up for a hit.

Golf to host Buck

Leslie Memorial Tournament

FROM STAFF REPORTS

The Washington and Lee golf team placed ninth in the
Randolph-Macon Ted Keller Invitational last Monday and
Tuesday.

Twelve teams competed in the two day event held
at Hunting Hawk Golf Club in Glen Allen, Virginia.

Bridgewater won the tournament with a total team
score of 614.

Placing behind Bridgewater were Christopher
Newport at 622, Lynchburg at 623, Ferrum at 624, Hampden-
Sydney at 624, Wesley at 627, Roanoke at 627, Randolph-
Macon “A” at 631, Washington and Lee at 637, Randolph-
Macon “B” at 643, Virginia Wesleyan at 647, and Appren-
tice School at 663.

Freshman Ted Williams led in scoring for the Gener-
als with a combined score of 155. He shot a 71 on Monday

and an 84 on Tuesday. Williams tied for fourteenth place.

Junior captain Ged Johnson tied for seventeenth place
with a total score of 157. He shot an 80 on Monday and a 77

on Tuesday.

The Generals host the Buck Leslie Memorial Tournament
at Lexington Golf and Country Club today and tomorrow.

Teams teed off starting at 8:45 this morning.

Lexington Golf and Country Club has been the Washing-

ton and Lee team course for over 60 years.

In 1969, the course was redesigned by Ellis Maples,
who designed the the Number Five course at Pinehurts Re-

sort.
The course is a par 71 and 6,444 yards in length.

Field Hockey knocks off
Roanoke 2-1 in overtime at home game

FROM STAFF REPORTS

The Washington and Lee ﬁeld hockey team defeated
Roanoke 2-1 in overtime on Wednesday.

Senior forward Kelly Tatfe scored the winning goal for
the generals with an assist from sophomore Jane Beall.

The Maroons (4-1 overrall, 2-1 in the ODAC) led 1-0
for the first half. But junior forward Kristen Brown tied the
game for the Generals. Brown was assisted by sophomore
defender Katharine Lester.

Sophomores Courtney Harrison and Elise Gelinas

shared the goal for Washington and Lee. Harrison made 2

saves, and Gelinas made 5 saves.

Junior Beth Lichty made 9 saves as goal keeper for

Roanoke.
The Generals led in shots, 13-12.

Washington and Lee was scheduled to play Christo-
pher Newport on the road, but the game was postponed
due to Hurricane Isabel. No date has been set for the

game.

The ﬁeld hockey team travels to Sweet Briar on Wednes-

day, September 24. Game time is TBA.

WANNA WRITE FOR PHI SPORTS?
EMAIL PERRYAM@ WLU.EDU

This week's golf etiquette tip:

On the green, don't walk in a playing partner's line!

 

Soil Trips, tam (ash, Go ﬂee!
How timing Gn~(ampus Reps

Call for group discounts

SELL SPRING BREAK TRIPS
ALL THE FUN 8: ALL THE PROTECTION
AMERICAN EXPRESS WORLDWIDE

GUARANTEED BEST BUY

1 FREE TRIP FOR EVERY 10 PAID
OR CA$H STARTING WITH FIRST BOOKING
MAKE YOUR SPRING BREAK EXXTREME

EXXTREME VACATIONS,

INC.
1-800-336-2260

3-300-648-4849 / www.st:‘t:avcL¢om

Triple Nine Society
Founded 1978
Extraordinary camaraderie
in an
international society of peers.
99.9th percentile:
old SAT 1450, new SAT 1520,
GRE 1460, MAT 85;
see complete list at:
www.triplenine.org

For Rent
-- Parents/Alumni --

Restored and modernized log cabin on 22 ac. in
mountains 15 min west of Lexington. 2 BR/2BA
-- Sleeps 6.

Avail wkly or ntly w/3 nt. min.

Call (804)355-0002 ‘

Rugby eam looks 
forward oseason .

BY CAMERON GARNER .
SPORTS WRITER

When asked about the upcoming season for the Washington and Lee Minks
Rugby team, Chad “look at this picture of me and Randy Moss. . .hey that doesn’t
look like Randy Moss. . . yes it does!” Lewis said: we’re fast and we’re tough. . .we’re
TIG .”

George “ask me about your rash” Craﬁ seconded Lewis’ remarks by saying:
“we are 2-0, we killed both teams we’ve played so far, and I’m nasty.” Rugby, a sport

‘too often overlooked at W&L, has quietly been one of our most successful pro- V

grams each fall.

Amix of football and soccer, Rugby requires a level of endurance seldom seen
on the other sports ﬁelds due to continuous play, hard hits, and limited substitu-
tions. The offense moves downﬁeld attempting to score a “try” (touchdown) worth
ﬁve points and the ensuing kick worth two.

The Minks have scored their share this year, thanks in part to the running of
Duffy, Woodward, and Wols, outscoring their opponents by a combined 74 points.

Craft highlights the team’s early successes by saying “seriously, I’m nasty.”

With fellow captain John Schaufele, and President Ryan Duﬁy, the Minks can ‘
back George ’s comments up.

Mark “the Godfather” Woodward, an outside center and all-around sharp
dresser, is looking forward to another great season after helping the Minks beat
VMI on their Parade grounds for the ﬁrst time in, well, a “long time” says Craﬁ.

Jock “the ﬂippin’ foreigner” Wols brings his slick South African lingo and
board shorts to the pitch every day. Rory Dowling, the team’s ﬂy half, has adjusted
to his new position well and now anchors the Minks’ back line.

These are a few names in what Woodward calls “a very balanced team.”

The Minks toy with other teams’ emotions every Saturday at nearby Highland 1'
Bell Middle School stadium, better known as “the Larnbaugh of Lexington,” or
“right next to the playground.” A trip to this Rugby Mecca should be on everyone’s
list of things to do on a Saturday right after Waffle House and before naptirne.

So come watch the Minks and support the most underrated team on campus. "1
L
I
.1
 W  fair ,
A
k
;.
Q

RIIGHT. The rugby team’s sense of humor makes itself known on their now infamous

shirts worn for freshman move-in last year. y.

Women’s at

cross country wins,   .

men finish second

FROM STAFF REPORTS

The Washington and Lee women’s cross country team took ﬁrst place out of
ten teams in the Roanoke Invitational on Saturday. The men’s team ﬁnished sec-
ond.

Freshman Tippens Stone led the women’s team with a time of 20: 1 1 .5, ﬁnishing
second overall.

Junior Steve Chambers led the men with a time of 27:57.8, ﬁnishing third overall.
SeniorAndy Schorr ﬁnished fourth with a time of 28:05.6. A

In the women’s race, the Generals ﬁnished with 45 points. Following Washing-
ton and Lee were Juniata with 57 points, Roanoke with 72, Southern Virginia with
1 14, King with 164, Shepherd with 185, Hollins with 190, Ferrum with 204, Mary
Baldwin with 232, and Greensboro with 236. )_

Roanoke ﬁnished ﬁrst with 22 points in the men’s race. Coming in behind
Roanoke were Washington and Lee with 59 points, Juniata with 86, Eastern Menno-
nite with 99, Ferrum with 146, Greensboro with 157, Southern Virginia with 165, and
King with 214.

Both the women’s and men’s team race again on Saturday, October 4 at 10:15 >
a.m. at the Dickinson Invitational. ‘

 

 

 

Tee R§i‘\lG""T{.lt\"E Pet

PAGE 7

RTS

Dust up in the desert:

As far as W&L seniors are
concerned, the Palms is the only
bar in town. Why don ’t we hear
more people asking, “Are you
going to the Mirage tonight? ” Is
the Palms the default bar for
good reason or does the Mirage

T“ THE DISH
CAROLYN DUFFY ‘O5

Palms vs. The Mirage

    

deserve a chance? More stu-
dents than you might think have
already darkened the doorways
of the Mirage, and for good rea-
son.

True, the Palms has been
here forever; it has earned its
solid reputation, and moreover
it has become a W&L tradition-
a senior Mecca. Its cool to go
to the Palms for a few drinks. It
is very not cool to hang out at
the Mirage. '

I stopped by the Mirage
last week to talk food with Tony,
chef/owner of the restaurant,
which opened last October, but
the conversation quickly shifted
to the students rather than the
menu. If you were ever uncer-
tain as to whether or not students
would feel as welcome there as
they do at the Palms, don ’t be.
Tony wishes more students
would frequent his bar, noting
the various ways in which he
caters to them and attempts to
provide a student-ﬁiendbz atmo-
sphere.

Thursday is Students’ Night,
featuring draft specials and a
chance to bring your own CD is
to play in the jukebox—as loud
as you want. T hat’s just one
thing that Tony claims separates
them from the Palms. “It is a com-
pletely different» atmosphere.-
We ‘re not afraid to turn the juke-
box up, and theres plenty of
room to move around and
breathe here, ” he explains, refer-
ring to the complaints he receives
(mostly from law students) that
the Palms is too hot and too
crowded.

A recent remodeling of the
restaurant left it with a new bar
area and carpeting (you might
not even recognize the place) as
well as plenty of entertainment——
pool tables, dart boards, and a

foosball table. The Mirage is es-
pecially proud of its large dance
ﬂoor, and while I have yet to ex-

   

JE

Whats that I see? Lexington’s bars have much to diér. Carolyn asks

more students to try the Mirage.

perience it, a DJ and Karaoke ev-
ery Thursday, Friday and Satur-
day night sounds like quite an
opportunity to scope out the lo-
cal talent.

And the food? Very rea-
sonably priced, the Mirage
specializes in “late night
munchies ” and appetizers, best
exempliﬁed in the Munchie
Basket which -includes cheeses
sticks, onion rings, fried mush-
rooms, poppers, chicken ten-
ders, and dips. It feeds four for
only $9.95. Tony ’s charbroiled
burgers are also a favorite—
bacon cheese or mushroom
with Swiss. But the highlight
of the menu is the nightly spe-
cial: a 10 oz. ribeye dinner that
includes baked potato, salad,
and a vegetable for only $6. 99.
If you ‘re only out for drinks,
head for the bar and ask Patsy
Tony ’s wife and the Mirage’s
bartender; to make you one of
her specialties, a Bahama
Mama or a Blue Motorcycle.

Still afraid the place will be
overrun with locals? Tony has
no qualms about expressing his
opinion that the locals are

“troublemakers” and that he
throws many of them out by the
end of the night, wishing his bar
would be ﬁlled with students in-
stead (is it because we spend
more on drinks or because he
likes usthat much ?).

If you haven ’t already,
check it out. Maybe you really
will be the only Washington and
Lee student there, maybe it will
be too loud, maybe you won ’t
be in the mood for karaoke, and
maybe you ’ll miss the popcorn
at the Palms. The Mirage may
not be for everyone, but then
again, it could become an alter-
native at least. If you do happen
to try it out, email me at
du[fyc@wlu.edu and let me
know what you think. It could
become Lexington ’s newest hot
spot. From what] ’ve heard, its
already on its way there.

& LIFE

MEGAN MORGAN
A1213 & IIFE EDITOR
EMAI1; MORGANMB@WIU.EDU

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 22, 2003

Students witness bornbing in Spain

BY STEVE LAMB
STAFF WRm«:R

Every year, thousands of United States
college students travel to Europe and other
nations around the world to study abroad.
This past summer, three Washington and Lee
students ﬂew to Spain to study in the south-
eastern coastal town ofAlicante, a popular
destination among foreign tourists.

George Singeltary, Carli Hague, and Beth
LeBlance arrived in Spain expecting to spend
six weeks immersed in Spanish culture, lan-
guage, and Mediterranean sunshineAccord-
ing to George Singeltary, their first four weeks
at the Estudio Sampere passed smoothly with
only the slightest barriers typical to foreign
travel, such as lost luggage.

On Tuesday July, 22 at approximately
twelve noon a bomb exploded in a hotel ad-
joining one of the Estudio Sampereis main
class buildings.At the time, Carli, George, and
Beth were in a classroom a building down

from where the bomb was detonated. George
Singletary recalls that he knew immediately
that a bomb had gone oﬁ’. “All of a sudden
there was ahuge blast, and I could tell it was
a bomb right away. ”T he bomb blew open the
classroom door leaving both Carli and George
with minor cuts. '

From the student is perspective, the most

frightening moment of the attack occurred when
several wounded students from classrooms
closer to actual blast ran into room in search of
help. At this point, the Washington and Lee stu-
dents realized that people had been severely
wounded and possible killed. Eventually, emer-
gency personnel arrived and led the students
outside to safety and medical treatment.

The attack at the Estudio Sampere was car-
ried out by a terrorist group known as the
“ETA ”, or Basque Fatherland and Liberty The
“ETA ” relies on terror as the principle weapon
in its drive to gain political independence from
Spain for the Basque region; the mountainous
area that lies on the border between Spain and
France. The group targets mostly Spanish gov-
ernment buildings, but also concentrates attacks
on densely populated tourist centers hoping to
deter tourism, a key source of income for much
of Spain.

Growing resentment towards citizens of the
United States and recent increases in global ter-
rorism have many students seriously reconsid-
ering studying abroad. While one must always
weight the pros and cons of such a decision,
it ’s important to remember that to live in fear is
in many ways not to live at all. In the end, George
ended up being the only W&L student to stay
and complete the six week course. He says “I
consider the whole situation a positive, life-
changing experience. ”

Rounders: it ain ’t just cards

BY IAN D1cK1NsoN
STAFF \WRITER

This weeks ’film review is to be dedi-
cated to a movie that I have found a dis-
turbing number ofpeople know nothing
about. While some may be
enlightened to the exhila-
rating‘ game of Texas
Hold’em, many tilt their
heads to the side and ask
what first person shooter
game I am babbling about
when I mention this game
ofpoker kings.

Texas Hold ’em truly is
the game ofkings. This is
no blackjack table you are
sitting at,‘ when you sit
down to play Texas
Hold’em, you are dealing
with pros. There are people
who make their living en-
tirely offofthis game.

"Rounders" is one of the first, if not
the best, movies dealing with the subject
ofpoker. Specifically the game of Texas
Hold’em. Starring A—list actors such as
Matt Damon, Edward Norton, and John
Malkovich, this is a movie that should not
pass you by.

Damon, cast as the lead, lays out can-
vincing role as a Law student who plays
poker on the side or is "rounding ” to pay

W&L CampusAA Meeting

   

TMPLIMENTS OF ROUNDERSMOVIE

for law school. However in the beginning
scene oftheﬁlm, he gets greedy and loses it
all to the Russian Casino owner “Teddy KGB, ”
a role brilliantly played by John Malkovich.
The movie resumes ayear later when Damon is
long time friend "Worm ”, played by Edward
Norton, gets released from
jail.

Norton ’s character is the
synthesis ofeveryfatalﬂaw
in a Poker player: he cheats
at every game, is dishonest,
steals, and yet director John
Dahl makes sure the audience
knows why Damon ’s charac-
ter considers Worm his best
friend. Worm is the Catalyst
that drags Damon is now

“Straight” character back into
the dark world afPoker, and
that is when the trouble be-
gins.

This movie should be
mandatory viewingfor allpledges and have
aplace reservedfor it in everyfrats movie
collection. Not only does it teach the viewer
how to play the game Texas Hold ’em, but it
is highly entertaining, suspenseful, and

. masterfully executed as far as film is con-

cerned. All this, and it still teaches impor-
tant life lessons. “Matt Damon: Listen,
here ’s the thing. Ifyou can ’t spot the sucker
in the ﬁrst half hour at the table, then you
ARE the sucker.

National program aim to reduce rape

7 :00 in Fairfax Lounge
October 1st, 2003

Vrginia Capital Semester

Mttke thcge msast of ‘y‘()LtI‘ .~:m:~.;.; .‘_~’§€.1’1"tt’.§£{t:3t‘ 3

Maketlwnwtafymwspritzgscmestetwithan
exciting intemshigz. chalteagnfng college 
ia:te:esIiﬁ99'~*95¥$i>eaiarsa2r6a§tt:9dra:naof
tﬁrgiréa politics.

Experiawe Virginia‘s capita: city during the
»e.xr:itacwnt of a  sassian white oamiwing
yeursaaﬁesanafxsﬁ-tine hasisttsrwglzcosnse
wast: atvitgine conmmvaahh University - am:
cam a 83.080 tntemshizz stipend.

For more inlocmation and application:

- xwm.vcu.edn!mpiraisan>esten

0 Vngixﬁa Capitai Semester, Sctmoi of Gavemment
396 Public Affaits, 9.0. Box 842023. tlirgiria
Cmmaoénweaim Unévetsétv. Riclmmd. VA

3328»!-2028: 0:

~ Contact Profassarﬂatm l~iamb:ickat
M41828-SW, W5) 828-t5‘)‘5or
vacapi2afsetn®veu.edu.

Application deatiﬁm is Oct. 35. 21183.

M nzﬁwyuhvbﬁkuﬁa twin rind?

FROM STAFF REPORTS

On Tuesday, Sep-
tember 23rd, local rape
centers and thousands
ofvolunteers across the
country will host Get
Carded 2003, a cam-
paign to raise aware-
ness and help prevent
sexual assault.

Volunteers will be at
more than 700 college
campuses across the
nation passing out

sexual assault informa-
tion packets and wallet
size hotline cards con-
taining the National
Sexual Assault
Hotline’s phone num-
ber as well as informa-
tion about their free
counseling services.
Volunteers will also pro-
vide information sheets
with tips on how to re-
duce the risk ofbecom—
ing a victim of sexual
assault.

The Get Card 2003
campaign focuses on
college students be-
cause they are at such
an increased risk ofbe-
ing a victim of sexual
assault. People age six-
teen to twenty four are
three times more likely
than any other age
group of becoming a
victim ofsexual assault
and 80% of all sexual
assault victims are un-
der thirty years ofage.

GotDirty Clothes?

University
Cleaners

Great Service
F irst-Rate Quality

7North Jeﬂerson Street

463-3622

0 then get

dry cleaning,
laundry, alterations

 

 

PAGE 8

  

TE-IE RiNt‘§-TUM Prrr.

THE AST ORD

MEGANMORGAN
AKIS&LIPEEDl’IOR

FMA1I;MoRGANMB@wIIIHm

MONDAY, SEPTEMBER 22, 2003

Absolut Fratlord reveals ten best theme parties

I’ve decided recently that expressing my
opinion on heated university issues is bad news.
I don’t think I have the grace or ability to rea-
sonably express myself in a way that is market-
able to the entire student body. To be sure, many

people have reacted favorably to
my more serious articles, but there .
have also been a few with more
negative responses. So, in an ef-
fort to avoid receiving negative
written responses that are actually longer than
the length of my original article, I’m going to

  

. cool it for awhile, and return to truly fratty top-

ics. If you can’t stand the heat, get out of the
kitchen I guess.

Thus, this change-of-pace article is dedi-
cated to everyone who wallowed around in the
KA mud pit on Saturday. Here it is, the Tim
Smith list of W&L’s Top Ten Theme Parties, for
fraternities.

10) Old South (KA) — In a politically-correct world,
somehow Mother Alpha gets away with this clas-
sic Antebellum Formal. Whether this leaves you
feeling disturbed, offended‘ or nostalgic, you

‘ have to admit they look darn spiffy in those wool

grays. Especially that Denbow fella, despite be-
ing the reluctant Southerner he is.

9) Chi Psi Late Night (Chi Psi) — Somehow, Chi
Psi manages to get a bad rap for one of the most
crucially consistent party spots on campus.
Where would we be without late night?? We’d
certainly be getting a lot more sleep, which would
be a total waste of time. So whether you think
they’re oddball creatures of the night or not,
respect them for providing entertainment well
into the morning. Tully, Brooksy, and all the
other Psichotics — I salute you.

8) Italian Wedding (PiKA) — The only mixer on the
list, Italian Wedding is easily the most creative mixer
in the W&L universe. It’s hilarious to watch the
Pikas and Chi-Os attempt to look as Italian as pos-
sible — Drew Catanese, of course, does not have to
do much to prepare. Then as they attempt to drink
like Italians, you have the makings of a great mixer.

ABSOLUT FRATLORD_
TIM SMITH ‘04

7) Redneck Ball (K-Sig) —As a West Virginian, I
must admit that this is a true favorite. Nothing
reminds me of home like a busted-up car on cin-
der blocks, being demolished by drunken frat
boys with sledgehammers. Beautiful and scary
in the same breath. There are
other good redneck parties out
there, but Kappa Sig’s
Redneck Ball is the redneckest
of em all.

6) Tropical (Lambda Chi) — Blatant self promo-
tion?? Perhaps. But make no mistake — Lambda
Chi’s Tropical party is certainly in the upper-
echelon of W&L’s many beach parties. Where
else can you get a 3-story tropical waterfall, a
genuine lawn volcano, and the unique experi-
ence of watching sorority girls swallow goldﬁsh
for T-shirts (not to mention Mark F ranceski swal-
lowing 21 goldﬁsh for no T-shirt). Come by this
Friday, and maybe this particular Frat Lord will
have a ﬁsh saved just for you.

5) Halloween Party (the Big Four) — A lot, of
people disagree that a Big Four even exists. This
is an often-debated topic to be sure. To me, it’s
a moot point, as long as the Halloween Party
stays around. Certainly the greatest Wednes-
day night event, and probably the only chance
you’ll get to see some of the W&L “elites”
dressed up in full hilarious costumes.

4) Derby Days (SigmaChi) — Perhaps this award
should go to the Girls of Derby Days, who put
it all on the line for the sake of pure competi-
tion. Though recent Derby Days have been
more tame, there have certainly times when the
girls have caused somejaws to drop (Long Live
the senior Thetas). Yet even without the con-
tribution of W&L’s ﬁnest ladies, the boys from
Sigma Chi know how to kick off Spring Term in
style — with a ridiculous week long party. Amen.

3) Foxﬁeld — If you’ve never been, then you just
don’t understand what the hubbub is about. Rest
assured, Fox Field races is one of the greatest
parties you’ll ever go to —where else can you set

Earn degree in lingerie at Intimate U.

BY MEGAN MORGAN
ARTS AND LIFE EDITOR

As students headed back
to Washington and Lee this
September, they were greeted
by a new addition to the Lex-

ington community. On June 9th,
Rick and Tracy Lackey opened
Intimate U, a new store on
Nelson Street which sells un-
dergarments and lingerie.

The plans for Intimate U
have been in the works for

many years. Tracy Lackey, a

‘ Lexington native, has always

felt that the town needed a lin-
gerie store. She decided that if
she was tired of driving to
Charlottesville or Roanoke to
buy undergarments than there

‘)

up bars in the middle of a big ﬁeld, just to watch
UVA girls clean you out in 20 minutes? And for
those of your W&L nostalgics, Fox Field is a great
way to relive those classic tailgate parties of old.

2) KA’s Beach Party (KA) — KA gets the #2 spot
here, simply because I’m typing this article with
painful scrapes all over my body. The Beach Party
has suffered in years past, due to drought and
other unfortunate interferences. But without a
doubt, Saturday’s party was probably the craziest
thing I’ve seen at W&L in my tenure. That mudslide
was unbelievable, but not quite so ridiculous as
watching girls hose eachother off time after time.
Mercy, 1 love this school.

FILE PHOTO
SHE LOVES T0 GROOVE. Theta alumnae shake their groove thang at “Tacky Prom,” not a top—ten theme party.

1) Buffalo Creek — It’s only appropriate that a
schoolwide party like Buffalo Creek should get
the number one spot on the list. Itis perhaps
the last hurrah of every school year — the Ulti-
mate Spring Term celebration. Nothing
screams fratty like sitting around ﬁres with
burned couches, chairs, and the occasional
carﬁre. And since it’s usually the last big
event of the school year, its tough to beat.
We’ve got a long time and many parties to go
before we get there — not to mention tons of
great parties that didn’t make this list. So don’t
be a square — get out there and enjoy your-
self. Otherwise you won’t know what you’re
missing. '

GIVIN’ ‘EM WHAT THEY WANT

Happy Birthday to our favorite Editorial Director

 

9 On Friday, it’s Katie HoWell’s
turn to wiiiiiiun!

JB, KW, EEJ, MM, AP, CA, BTK, KG & the rest of the PICA crew

must be others that shared her
sentiments. She and her hus-
band began brainstorming ideas
for the store. After nine years
of talking about it, they began
to make concrete plans for the
sotre’s opening oa year and a
half ago.

While Intimate U has made
an effort to reach out to the col-
lege community through ges-
tures such as sending ﬂowers
to the sororities, the store ca-
ters to all ages and sizes. While
some of the items are designed
for younger women, there are
also items that are speciﬁcally
target older women, In addition,
the store carries garments in all
sizes from petite to voluptuous.

All the items in the store are
selected by Tracy from the linge-
rie market in New York. She says
that at market she “looks for lines
that are carried in larger cities that
we don’t have access to in Lex-
ington” She stresses, however,
that she is new to the lingerie
market and therefore is always
looking for feedback and sugges-
tions from her customers.

Love,

4

of Snapple.

You know what we need. Coors Original Banquet Beer isn’t only our favorite——— it must tempt the
freshmen residents of Graham-Lees dormitory as well. Recently, but not recently enough, this delivery
truck provided an incongruous photo opportunity when DOD Distributing made a beer run through
MicroLex. No doubt, the framers of the ballyhooed alcohol policy weren’t happy with the advertising.
Freshmen who stormed the truck quickly learned the vehicle was delivering nothing more than bottles

FI PHOTO

HITS

Q The Buffalo Bills will win the
Super Bowl this year.

Q Tom McClintock is the best
candidate running to replace
Gary Davis as governor of Cali-
fomia.

Q Cheers to President and
Mrs. Burish for picking up trash
as they walk around campus.

Q The Black Dog burger at the
cafe of the same name is delicious.

Q The stairway from the Com-
mons Ampitheater to the Dell is
great going down; not so fun

going up.

Q Lambda Chi threw a very
well-attended party on Friday.

Q Hurray for the Co-op open-
ing the second register for ex-
tended hours. Service is much
faster.

Q Don’t forget to attend the
Mock Convention Delegate Fair
in the Doremus Gymnasium,
Wednesday 10-4.

Q During the Board of Trust-
ees Fall Meeting, October 23-25,
organize a protest, a demonstra-
tion, or a sit-in to let them know
Spring Term is non-negotiable.

(I) The rock climbing wall at the
Commons looked damn phallic.

Q Mimi Elrod’s cats should be
welcomed back into Lee House.

Q Hunan Garden delivers Chi-
nese food and volcanoes!

(I) Only 93% of SVU students
are Mormon. The rest, aren’t.

Q The cubicles in the Com-
mons are simply not sufficient for
most campus organizations.

Q After they lost power, the
residents of the Parkview threw
one kickin’ Hurricane Party last
Thursday night.

Q E-mail your anonymous
Quick Hits to phi@wlu.edu.

.-

 

4".

 

Faculty Courseloads must
* drop to compete nationally

BY CATHERINE SWAN
STAFF WRITER

When looking at rankings for
the top liberal arts schools in the
nation, Washington and Lee Uni-
versity consistently stands out as
an institution that provides excel-
lent students an excellent education.
One ranking, however, that is not
always seen as positive is that of
the faculty teaching load

Among the U.S. News and
World Report Top 25 Liberal Arts
Colleges, the average number of
classes afaculty rnernberisexpected
toteachis4.88.W&L’scimentteach-
ing load is 6.5. This lower average
reﬂects a shift in education over
the past several years to a greater
integration of scholarship and re-
search into the teaching process.

With this shift comes the
concern that W&L will no longer
be able to attract top notch pro-
fessors while still maintaining a
teaching load that is not compa-
rable with that of similar ir1stitu—
tions. The high teaching load is
said to affect the ability of faculty
in some ﬁelds to continue advanc-
ing their scholarly pursuits while
still having enough time to ad-
equately teach their courses. Each
calendar proposal seeks ways to
reduce the faculty teaching load
in order to promote scholarship
and attract the most talented fac-
ulty.

“This is a place where scholar-
ship and teaching are intertwined.

Unrecognized AACIJ inserting itself into fall rush  

the best liberal arts colleges use the
intersection of teaching and schol-
arship to engage students in the pro-
cess of generating new knowledge,”
said Dean of the College Jeanine
Stewart.

Some believe that the high teaching
load currently hinders or will hinder
the university’s ability to attract the
best scholars and teachers. Although
some depamnents have encountered
problems in hiring, others have not
foimd the high teaching loadto be an
issue. '

"Ihere are some candidates that
have seen the courseload and shied
away. We have nothadthatbeaprob-
leminourabilitytohirequaliﬁedcan—
didates - yet,” said English Profes-
sor Suzanne Keen.

The Economics Department,
however, has a different story. They
recently lost ﬁve job candidates that
were drawn awayduetotheteaching
load Dean Stewart also stated that it
hadalsobeenafactorinseveralfac-
ulty members’ decisions to leave the
university, although she acknowl-
edges thatthehigliteaching load was
not the only reason they left

All three calendar proposals
outline ways the teaching load can
be reduced. Currently the adminis-
tration is looking to lower the teach-
ing load to six courses. Whether
further steps will be taken in the
future to bririg that number even
closer to the average is still being
discussed. The debate lies in which
calendar will provide the most efﬁ-
cient and least costly way to lower

BY ERIN JULIUS
NEWS EDITOR

Freshmen guys may have noticed an insert to their IFC rushbook
or ﬂiers inviting them to parties in recent weeks. The unrecognized
Washington and Lee chapter of Alpha Delta Phi has been ﬁghting
hard to be included in fall rush this year. The rushbook insert and
party ﬂiers are examples of ADPhi having to, “work extra hard to

compete,” said Colby.

“We want to make fall rush an equal playing ﬁeld as it was
meant to be,” said ADPhi President Chris Colby in an email to on-

campus fraternity Presidents.

Colby notes both the advantages and disadvantages of an un-
recognized fraternity. An unrecognized fraternity would not be able
to use school property to hold meetings, nor could it participate in
school functions, such as Intrarnurals, as a sanctioned organization.
As for rush procedures, neither would an unrecognized ADPhi have
to obey IFC rush rules. Colby used the example of ADPhi being

the faculty teaching load while maxi-
mizing the faculty’s ability to re-
search and advance as scholars.
Although the 12-12-6 calendar pro-
posal states that “a 12-12-6 system
is easily accommodated to a 5-
course teaching load,” Dean
Stewart feels that the 14-14 calen-
dar would be more economical to
staff than a three-term calendar
would be.

Interms of facultyresearch,pro-
ponents of the 12-12-6 calendar state
thatthecui1entmodelisthemostcon—
ducive to scholarly pursuits. The 14-
14 calendar would require faculty to
spend more hours teaching in the
classroom. There is also a concern
that the elimination of the unique
courses offered dining spring term,
andthe therefore greater emphasis on
basic semester courses, would lead
to decreased intellectual stimulation
among the faculty.

Supporters of the 14-14 calen-
dar argue that this model would al-
low the university to attract the
most promising scholars. It is also
believed that this calendar will
prove more favorable to research
by adding two weeks to the sum-
mer and thus allowing more time for
research.

No matter what calendar is
eventually decided on, what re-
mains true is that W&L will con-
tinue to strive to attract the most
talented and promising faculty to
the university. “The calendar
does not drive what we do here;
it's the vessel,” said Stewart.

  T/re rtudem‘ wire of War/Jington and Lee Urzirerrin rirrre 1897

_. :4-.,+:. L

PH

VOLUME CVll,No.VHf 9 

MONDAY, OCTOBER 6, 2003

BURNED

During a party at Kappa Sigma’s country house, The Barn, there was a car bash that ended in fire.
“The ﬂames were at least 25 feet high,” said Kappa Sig junior Andy Clayton. The county sheriff
saw the ﬂames from a distance and called the fire department. “Nobody got hurt or anything,”

said Clayton.

 

Jr-:3 BROOKS/ THE R1NG—’I’UM PHI

allowed to extend bids to freshmen as early as October if it goes
unrecognized, however, “we don’t want to do that,” said Colby.
“We have no ill will towards any other fraternity, so we’re
asking for all the other fraternities not to have ill will towards us,”
said Colby, “we would much rather be recognized by the school
and obey the IFC rules because they do make rush fair.”
The initiation took place after the brothers, “were informed

that we are released [from SPE] with NIC approval,” said Colby. ~

The former brothers of Sigma Phi Epsilon were ofﬁcially initiated as
brothers of Alpha Delta Phi on Friday night.

The administration has taken steps to inform the parents of the
new ADPhi brothers abou the steps that must be taken before the
fraternity is officially recognized by the University. In an email,
dated October 1, to the parents of the brothers, Brian Castleberry,
IFC Chair, Matt Jacobs IFC Advisor, Teresa Glassman, Director of
Students Activities and Greek Life, and Dawn Watkins, Dean of
students, discussed the issue of ADPhi dues, as well as outlined
the steps that must be taken for ADPhi to become an official frater-

lOO students turn out for Fall Service Day

BY ERIN JULIUS
NEWS EDITOR

Saturday saw about 95
Washington and Lee students
turn out for a day of giving back
to the Lexington community.
Noble Stafford and Jill Waity
organized the Fall Service Day,
held this year for the ﬁrst time.

Kristen Crawford helped to or-
ganize the service sites.

The day of service ofﬁcially
started at noon, although a few
of the project such as the ser-
vice at the SPCA started earlier
in the day.

Khady Mbaye volunteered at the SPCA for Fall Service Day

“Over 110 people signed
up, and most people showed
up,” said Stafford.

The day involved service
work at several
different sites.
Several local
organizations
beneﬁted from
direct service.
Students
worked in the
SPCA, spent
time with the
residents of
the Mayﬂower
Retirement
Center, and
worked at
landscaping at
Waddell El-
ementary.

Other stu-
dents cleaned
the old Lime
Kiln ofﬁces on
Randolph St., because the local
Habitat for Humanity is moving
into that ofﬁce next week. Some
volunteers painted a house in
the Natural Bridge area and
gleaned apples early Saturday

Cr-m1snNE GRAY/RING-TUM PHI

morning.

The last service site was
Arc Acres, where students
did farming-type activities,

    

Dianne Winter also volunteered
at the.SPCA Saturday.

“Jill and I

such as paint-
ing fences.
“We trying
to make it an
annual event.
Jill created it
and we both
want to see it
again next
year and see
its success in
the future,”
said Stafford.
The Nabors
Service Day in
the Spring
usually draws
more volun-
teers, but it
has also been
in existence
much longer.
were surprised

by the great response of the

campus,” said
Students

Stafford.
who partici-

pated will be receiving T-

shirts.

nity on campus.

The steps to recognition are as follows: the IFC is awaiting
approval by the North American Interfraternity Conference (NIC) for
ADPhi to begin the colonization process at Washington and Lee.
After approval comes from the NIC, the IFC can choose to hear a
petition from the ADPhi members. If 75% of the IFC were to vote in
favor of ADPhi, the vote would move to the Students Affairs Com-
rnittee (SAC), where a majority vote wouldbe required for final ap-

proval for colonization.

The email also cites the NIC Constitution and By-Laws, section
3, “No member fraternity shall accept a petition for membership, grant
colony, or other affiliated status, or grant a charter to any group
substantially representing an existing or disassociated colony or
active chapter of another member fraternity, until the fraternity with
which such group was previously connected has officially given
written notice to the Conference that all rights have been waived by
them, or until ﬁve years have elapsed from the date of resignation or

disassociation.”

Media ﬁgure spoke friday

BY ELIZABETH ECKMAN
STAFF WRITER

On Friday, October 3, at
5:30, journalist and media ﬁg-
ure Steve Brill was the key-
note speaker at the kickoff to
the 36"‘ annual Institute on
Ethics in Journalism.

While introducing Mr.
Brill, head of the Institute and
professor Edward
Wasserman, said that the in-
stitute was founded in order
to make sure that “what pro-

_ fessors were teaching in the
classrooms would continue
into the newsroom” and help
practicing journalists.

By having professional
journalists and heads in the
journalism ﬁeld speak to jour-
nalism majors, it “exposes stu-
dents to the best minds in the
ﬁeld.”

Brill, the chosen speaker
at this year’s kickoff, is the
founder of Court TV, is cur-
rently a Newsweek columnist
and is a renowned journalist
in the areas of business and
law.

His address was entitled,

“Holding the Media Account-
able in the Age of Osama,
Kobe, and Arnold.” Brill said
that newspapers need to op-
erate by “their own sense of
right and wrong, not by what
the laws let you do.”

Brill spoke about the Sep-
tember 11'“ tragedies and the
media coverage, who, he said,
did “a really good job.” He
maintained that the media need
to be “disciplined” in its cov-
erage, and focus more on the
important issues of safety,
rather than placing blame.

Using the example of the

Patriot Act, Brill described 

journalists who had never read
the act before, but had either
condemned it as unworkable
or overly praised its effective-
ness.

“The Patriot Act is not
nearly as bad, new, or effec-
tive as the media portrays it to
be.” Brill also provided sugges-
tions for the government to get
involved in mass media, “We
can easily place obligations on
such media because the gov-
ernment provides such ben-
eﬁts already,” he said.

Freshmen: See page 4 for a Voters’ Guide for the elections on Tuesday, October 7, 2003

 

 

“-'PAcE2

« sity did not actually increase the number of

, new permanent faculty were also hired to re-

 

  
 

* . _ ‘=3
.,/.4,,,,,T{,Z,g'w_ 

OCT 0 8 2003

BY PATRICIA BALLANTYNE

STAFF WRITER

Last Thursday, the Executive Committee fi-
nalized its allocation of funds to Washington
and Lee student organizations. While students
may primarily associate the EC with the honor

' - code, distributing funds directly impacts every

student organization on campus.
The EC received applications from 52 stu-

H dent organizations for funding. This number ex-

cludes Traveller, who received $42,000 before
the allocation procedures. Overall Helen
Hughes, the president of the EC, admits “the
method definitely went pretty smoothly.”
Wednesday night half of the organizations

1' - presented proposals, each lasting ten minutes.

The EC interviewed every club immediately fol-
lowing their proposals, asking detailed expla-
nations for budget requests. The committee
knew the amount each organization had received
in previous years, along with other possible
supplements. The same procedure followed
Thursday night.

Friday morning, every student could see

- j the results of the EC’s effort by looking at cam-

pus notices. 17 organizations collected at least
$2,000, while numerous others received much
smaller amounts, and still others obtaining no

‘ funding. The Student Bar Association and the

Student Activities Board obtained the highest
amounts of $63,500 and $60,000 respectively.
The Student Bar Association is a neces-
sary feature of the Law School’s activities.
The co-President of the Student Activities
Board, Caroline Parker, expressed satisfaction
with the money the SAB received. “We asked
for $70,000 this year (which is how much we
received last year) and we got $60,000. That’s
about how much we expected, considering the
amount of organizations applying for money

N -‘l¥.3;‘ri

Executive Committee Allocates Money to Student Organizations

 

MONDAY, OCTOBER 6, 2003

and this year’s Mock Con.” The SAB wants to
use their money to hold events with higher at-
tendance than those in the past.

As the SAB recognized, Mock Convention
obtained a sizeable portion of the funds in this
year’s allocations process. Hughes admitted
that “Mock Con was going to get a chunk of
the money.” Indeed, Mock Convention occurs
only once in every four years, and the EC sees
a need to keep adequately funding it, which
might result in some organizations getting less
money in a Mock Con year.

“The EC provides roughly 20 percent of
the overall Mock Con budget,” according to
the treasurer of Mock Convention, William
Litton. “We were very happy that the EC de-
cided to continue their support this fall with a
very generous donation.” I

Nine organizations received funding for
the first time. Some of these, like the WLUR,
previously acquired funding from different
sources. For instance, the WLUR no longer
acquires their funds from the Journalism De-
partment, so the EC now funds them. Other
organizations are newly formed groups, such
as inGeneral, a new student-run news and fea-
ture magazine that will be published bi-monthly
beginning this winter. '

The founder of inGeneral, Mina Azodi,
considered the EC reasonable in its allocation
and helpful to new organizations. “The EC has
been incredibly supportive in helping inGenera1

. throughout the recognition and budget pro-

cess, and we really appreciate that. During my
meetings with them they seemed genuinely
supportive and excited about our project.”
When asked about the process of budget allo-
cation for new organizations, Azodi added, “As
long as you’re well-prepared and really believe ir1
your project, it’s likely that the EC will be more
than willing to support you.”

Money. Did the EC give you any?

Not all organizations received money. Eight
organizations fall into this caten\gory. These
include Alpha Phi Omega, FLC, Kathekon, KEWL,
Media Board (formerly Publications Board), Or-
der of Omega, Phi Eta Sigma, and Ring—tum Phi.

Hughes attributed specific reasons for the lack
of funding for these organizations. Alpha Phi
Omega and Kathekon had not asked in the past.
The EC believed that other sources should fund
some of these organizations. “Perhaps IFC and
Panhel should fund the Greek Honor Society, Or-
der of Omega, and perhaps the Dean of Freshman
should fund the Freshmen Leadership Council.”

I razowskn .wG'ro '

“One well debated issue was KEWL,” accord-
ing to Hughes. The EC has funded KEWL (Knowl-
edge Empowering Women Leaders) in the past,
but members of KEWL must have taken a women’s
study’s class. “We thought this a bit restrictive.
Not everyone has time to take women’s studies
classes.”

The ﬁnal decision on funding may satisfy
some organizations and anger others, but the EC
did analyze every request before deciding on fund-
ing for the Fall. The EC will grant Winter supple-
ments to organizations who demonstrate a need

I’

New faculty members bring youth, accomplishment

BY CATHERINE SWAN

STAFF WRITER

This year the freshmen are not the only new faces on campus;
over 40 new faculty members have begun teaching at Washington

and Lee.
It is important to note that The Univer-

faculty on campus.
The majority of new faculty are visiting
members in one year positions, but several

place faculty that had just retired.

In an attempt to bring the most qualiﬁed
and capable professors to campus, deans and
department heads must maintain high stan-
dards for applicants.

“When I interview anyone that has a role
in dealing with students I look for their ability
to develop repor quickly, and openness. I look
for information that would clue me in about
their ability to deal with students,” said Dean
of the College Jeanine Stewart.

The English Department is one area of
the college that has been very active hiring
new faculty in the past several years, due to
the retirement of professors. The department
received anywhere between 150-300 applica— _
tions for any position.

“We have been very fortunate in hiring.
We have a young department ﬁlled with ac-
complished teachers,” said English Profes-
sor Suzanne Keen.

Keen emphasized that appropriate fit in
terms of field, past performance as a student
and scholar, and teaching experience as im-
portant factors in evaluating candidates.

The Sociology Department takes a very student—ori-
ented approach to hiring. Majors and prospective majors are
given the opportunity to have lunch with prospective candi-
dates, without any faculty present, giving them the opportu-

 

\llhslnngtmmﬂIeeUmversﬂy’sLeeC11apelar1dM11sannislnsungaLee
MerrxxialIeamemM<xxiay,O<1l3,feanningDLWﬂhan1S.Rasrrmsser1ad-
dressing‘NoOd1erCmnseWnl1oml)islxxxx”:TheIifeofRobertELee. The

speechisat 12:05 p.m.intheLeeChapel Admissionisfree.

Princeton Professor to Deliver Phi Beta Kappa Lecture

. Pnmetor1Umversityprofes¢mIemardBad<anwﬂldehvermePlnBetaKappa
Visiting Scholarlecture atwashingtonandbee on'Ihursday, Oct. 2, at7:00
pm. in Leyburn Library’s Northen Auditorium. The lecture, “Shakespeare,
FoodandMe: OnDan'ngtoWriteaMemoir,”istheﬁ1stofaseries ofeventsas

partofthePhiBetaKappaV1sitingScho1arsprogram.

FEC Ollicial to Speak on Campaign Finance Refonn

BrarﬂeySnnﬂrvioedunnnmofﬂ£I3e(laalE1eaimComnﬁssi(nwiﬂspeal(m
campaignﬁnanoerefom1onMonday,Oct. 6,inc1assroornAatWashingtonand
LeeUnivexsity’sSchoolofI_aw. Srnith’s7p1n.speechwillfoo.1sor1theoor1stit11-
ﬁmalﬂyofﬂ1eMoCmneltnsesasﬂ1eyrelatetoa:rr1paig11ﬁriame1efmn

 New faculty replaces retired professors and those professors currently on sabbatical

nity to ask questions and gather information about the candi-
dates.

Each candidate is also given the opportunity to talk about their
research and present a classroom lecture. “Students perceptions
are taken very seriously,” said Novack.

Novack also stressed that the
kind of teacher his department
would be not only a quality in-
structor, but also a teacher that
showed signs of professional
growth.

There are also many reasons
why prospective faculty consid-
ers applying for a job at W&L.

“I chose to apply for this job
for several reasons: it has an ex-
cellent academic reputation, em-
phasizes teaching, and is close to
D.C. where most of my research is
focused. I am also a native of the
Blue Ridge area, so the opportu-
nity to be close to home was at-
tractive,” said Politics Professor
Celia Carroll.

Biology Professor Selina
Normaly accepted a visiting posi-
tion at W&L after first gaining ex-
perience at the University of Vir-
ginia.

“I was interested in trying
out the small college scene. Ev-

_ eryone had been fantastically
New Faculty. Professor Braunshnerder of the friendly and helpful,” Said

English department, new to the faculty last year. Nora_m]y_

All departments feel that
they have had great success in
hiring qualified faculty, and this year is no exception.

“We are very successful in retaining new hires. By and
large, our faculty are well supported here, they are happy here.
These are people who express genuine enthusiasm for the com-
munity and the people they have encountered,” said Stewart.

mu 2.91 mg .1‘ Jane :4

HOUSE FOR RENT
in Rockbridge Baths on Maury River
2 bedroom, 2 bath
central air, ﬁreplace
$850 + security deposit and references
call evenings 703-503-8239

for money.

Traveller whinnies

The members of the Traveller Steering Committee would
like to clear up some confusion. There has been a lot of
confusion among the student body over what Traveller of-
fers. Also there has been some conﬂict between students
and drivers. We would like to set the record straight.

Traveller’s service for this year has changed slightly
from last year’s service. We have eliminated the van ser-
vice on Sunday and Tuesday nights. We cut those nights
because nobody was using them. The cutback was not due
to a lack of funds. The Traveller Steering Committee works
diligently to accurately serve student needs. The cutback
was in response to a lack of need, not a lack of money.

A more important issue is the conﬂict between drivers
and students. The van drivers have been getting undue
criticism. Our insurance policy states that the van can only
hold eleven people, including the driver. So when the driver
says only ten people can ride in the van, it is not because
he’s a jerk, it is not because he’s on a power trip, and it is
not because he doesn’t like you. It is because overloading
the van is unsafe. The driver is looking out for your well-
being as well as ensuring obedience to our insurance policy.
If the van has more than 11 people in it, the driver would be
solely liable for all passengers, should anything happen.
Students who insist upon overloading the van are putting
the driver in an unfair position. They are putting them-
selves and the system in danger. So if you’re the twelfth
person, just be patient and wait for the next van, or get a
sober ride from whoever is hosting the party.

As we mentioned earlier, the Traveller Steering Com-
mittee constantly working to best serve student needs. We
realize that the current van system is imperfect. We are
researching ways to transport more people in larger and
safer vehicles. But it is important to remember that Travel-
ler currently offers a more comprehensive safe ride service
than any school in the nation. So for now, remember to be
nice to the drivers. After all, they’re doing all they can to
get you home safely.

Signed,
GASD (Generals Advocating Safe Driving), Traveller Steer-
ing Committee

Want to save a life?
Want to save three
lives?

Donate a pint of

Gap

 Crew

Ann ‘Taylor
Lilly Pulitzer»
Ralph Lauren

20 West \Vashingt‘0n“St'reet _

Open Monday-S aturday 10-5

 

Lexington,:'Virgi"nia 0 (540) 462-6288 0 temptrne4@lycos.corrn
Fine Resale: Apparel  Vintage Collectables

blood at

Chi Psi s

bloodrive
Wednesday in
the Doremus.

  

it

 

   
 

 

 V "nae RiNt.§~’_3lt.hf PH: omonsaim
 MONDAY, SEPIEMBER 29, 2003 V PAGE 3
« PINIONS it ”“

 Sijtipiﬁﬁuiieunt - ames are art, not trash

Student safety = party priority

 

Washington and Lee parties are
incredible, we all love them. They are
lacking one thing, though: safety. One
u need only look at the recent Kappa
Sigma debacle to see the dangers of
drunken debauchery. While some be-
lieve that such an outcome is the tar-
.‘ get for which all fraternities should
shoot, we consider students’ lives to be
paramount. We should ask student or-
ganizations to carefully consider all of
their activities. Events and parties can
often pose a danger to the participants,
and we believe that in many cases, the
danger is too much to tolerate.

The destruction of a car near a ﬁre
is not wise, as any individual with a mo-
dicum of knowledge about the interac-
tion of fire with the human body could
tell you. Unfortunately, this rather fun
annual event was banned from campus
after a very serious injury was sustained
by a freshman last year. Instead of re-
alizing the danger of the event, and per-
“ haps altering the format or ditching the
event altogether, its planners decided to
take it to the country. It is great that
many people had fun at the event, how-
‘ _ if . ; ever more people could have been in-
jured, or dare we say it, killed?

Even fraternity basements have
ti, A risks, no matter what fraternity it is
' ' that’s invoved. Alot of our parties early
on this year have been packed tighter
than a sardine can. Imagine a cata-
strophic fire like the one in Rhode Is-
land last year, and you can see the po-
tential hazard of a frat basement full
of students with very few, narrow ex-
_ i‘_ ists. Fellow Washington and Lee stu-
5 dents, all that we ask is that you pay
attention to your surroundings and be
aware of the dangers that you face and

4 _ accept when having fun. Don’t get us
' i wrong, we love our fun as much as any-
one-else on campus.» In fact, several
of us lookbackeontthe car -burningvat‘
‘ 4 . The Barn as the highlight of our week-
end. Generals, do have fun, but be
safe and keep your eyes open. Try to
o" stay away from doing anything that we
wouldn’t do, which admittedly isn’t
much.

 

PHOTO COURTESY OF t/mnderbo/take mu/e
Too VIOLENT? The protagonist of huge video game hit Grand Theft Auto: Vice City explores the ﬁner points of using a ﬂame thrower

But this is besides the point. The point that I object to is the one
made by the uninformed, that video games inherently make people vio-
lent and “rot their brains” so to speak, because of their immersive and
addictive nature, and due to the violence presented in them. -

Video games are not trash. Ironically, people who offer the “video
games are addictive” point are often people who spend hours each day
watching television. Video games are no more addictive than TV or mov-
ies. They cannot “rot your brain.” Science shows us that, if anything,
video games improve reﬂexes and strengthen neuron
synapses, the same effect that playing chess or solving
logic puzzles have on the brain. So says a recent study
from the University of Rochester in New York. Video
games can even be educational in some cases (the World
War II Medal of Honor series, for instance, has remark-

Whenever the question is asked “why are today’s children so vio-
lent,” a list of usual suspects comes up. Among the list of contribu-
tors to the “culture of violence,” are video games. Parents, media
outlets, and politicianstare always blaming, among these other things,
the presence of violence of video games for the problems in the minds
of America’s youths. Not only that, they call them drugs, electronic
narcotics that dull the mind and alter the mental state of those who
play them.

But as usual, America’s media outlets and politi-
cians have found a scapegoat rather than an answer.
The facts of the matter indicate that video games are
really not an inciter of violence, and science has proven
that the only alteration to the mental state of those
playing video games is the same relaxing effect that d 1
reading a book has. By blaming, among other’thing_:s',_y_ide,(,)_ V ame_s,__we 3t_iie histotie3i 3ee1ii'3ey).
are only making the Problem worse by Wastingour efforts on '2i1il1'sie1e's'sii. ii‘ i Biit heyoiidthat. Video games are 3it- They 3ie 3it in the s3me W3y
cause  A ' '  . that film is art. The only differences are that video games are on a some- . ‘ . ‘

The typical argument from the concerned parent/firebrand po1iti_ what smaller screen and allow interaction from the viewer/user, whereas
cian, etc. is this: “The portrayal of large amounts of violence in video moyies 3Fe oh 3 i3Ige sereeii 3nd aiiow ho ihtei3etioh-
games is inherently dangerous because of the example and incentive Are Video g3mes Vioiehtr-' Sure But so 3Ye moVies- Sometimes
of violent behavior it provides to its young, impressionable players.” Vioieiiee is 3 me3iis to 3h 3i'tistie ehd- The Ptohiem is With Paiehts hot
Firstly, video games are no more “inherently dangerous” than movies. Pioteotiiig their Children from oeYt3iii 83mes- Siiie: ah 8"ye3i' oiti shoiiidhit
And secondly, like movies, video games have ratings designating what Piay Grand Theft Auto? Vice City (an excellent game), but neither shoilid
audience they are meant for. And like movies, young kids cannot pur- 311 8'3/eat oid View S3Vihg Pi'iV3te Ryan (3Ii eXeeiieI1tmoVie)~ Peopie Who
chase video games for mature audiences. Thus, when little kids DO Pi3y Video g3mes know that they eoht3ih dt3m3» Comedy» 311d teii stories
get their hands on 3 Vieient game, it’s the parents’ Own fuuit for put- in a unique interactive way that makes the viewer/user feel a part of it all
chasing it in the first place while having fun playing the game. The superior and subtle design and

A fair objection that may be offered at this point is that many immense eiiloy3biiity of some games is» ih my opihioiia 3ft of the highest
video game retailers do not do enough to enforce the laws on the kind-

 books by preventing underage kids from getting mature games. This Video 83mes 3Ieh’t the Problem Theyite Vioiehts but not the Prob"

44 7 - - - unit, which is 3 inner one made 1, enatei nu presidential eandi_ lem. Neither are movies or TV. The roblem are the parents who fail to
You can twm the war on termnsmlfyou gate Joseph Liebermjan (D-Conn.) hhsstruth man, and I do agree that supervise their children and take resptiinsibility for What they are exposed
make your Own Justice Department into not enough is being done at the moment to step kids from buying to. Video games are a form of artistic expression and entertainment that

games they sheu1dn’t_ are to be valued, not dismissed as “trash media.”
~General Wesley Clark (Democratic
candidate for President, on the USA
-' Pat1iotAct)

Editor in chief
Assistant Editor
News Editor

"M6B§é7i7ii~Es M65635”
CALEY ANDERSON ‘O6

 

   

to te of the Week

     

 

Opinions Editor

Arts & Life Editor
Photography Editor
Sports Editor

Asst. Sports Editor
Production Assistants

Copy Editor
Editorial Director

Business Manager

Caley Anderson
Megan Morgan

Cody Gabbard
Allison Perry

John Hyland

Hilary Henry

Chad Kiewiet de Jonge
Anne Iadarola

Katie Howell

Paul Seifert

Circulation Director
Distribution Dir

     

Henry G1-imball
Thomas Worthy

 

OF Is. r. [0 14

 

OTO COUR

The R,-,,g_,u,,, Phi‘ is published Mondays during IMPROVING PARENTAL CONTROL. The X—Box lets parents program in games that should be blocked from their children. The X-Box will then refuse to play that game.
the undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee
University, Lexington, Virginia. The Washington and
Lee Publications Board elects the Editor in chief, but
The Ring-tum Phi is otherwise independent.

I The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible sub-
missions and letters. All submissions must be e—mailed
to phi@wlu.edu or in the University Center mailbox by
5 p.m. Friday to appear in the following weeks edition.
The Ring-tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions
for content and length. Letters and columns do not
A necessarily reflect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi
Editorial Board. Advertising does not reﬂect the opin-
ions of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper
observes current court deﬁnitions of hbel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
‘_ University Commons Rm. 341
Washington and lee University
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Telephone: (540) 458-4060
Fax: (540) 458-4059
Email: phi@wlu.edu

  
 

“Dean Watkins"
-Catherine Camilletti ‘O6

       

“Fiolessor' West-Settle”
—Jennay Scott ‘06

“ I Cox.
Can I get some extra chem credit?”
—Amy Bacastow ‘06

“Alex Brown”
-Professor Ted DeLaney

“Dave”
-Amanda Hughes ‘06

 

    

PAGE 4



MONDAY, OCTOBER 6, 2003

Take a break— U.S. citizens too pressured to succeed

. Where are the happiest people located?
Well, according to a survey conducted by
the World Values Survey, Nigeria contained
the happiest people on earth amongst a list
of 65 countries. Next in line of happiness
levels are Mexico, Venezuela, El Salvador and
Puerto Rico. The United States

sense of self-esteem as indicators while the
Japanese strive to meet family expectations,
fulfill social responsibilities, and be self-dis-
ciplined, cooperative, and friendly. The ac-
tions necessary to achieve happiness in
America require much time and leaves little

personal time and even less

ranked 16"‘ on the list. TRAIN OF THOUGHT time for building relation-
Isn’t it ironic that the ‘ ships. American society in-
world’s wealthiest nation is   grains the idea that to be

 

not the happiest yet one of
the world’s underdeveloped
countries” is the happiest? When I heard this
statistic on CNN, I wasn’t terribly surprised
but I was curious as to why this is the case.
We’ve always heard the saying money can’t
buy happiness, and this survey clearly indi-
cates that there is some truth to that state-
ment. I’ve also heard that America is infa-
mous for having one of the highest, if not
the highest, statistics for depression. Why
is it this so? Do Americans have lower lev-
els of serotonin? We have it all in America
so what is up?

I have a theory. According to this sur-
vey, Americans place importance on personal
success, self-expression, pride, and a high

successful and happy, one

must have big paychecks,
nice houses, fancy cars, and designer clothes.
That’s why we are at Washington and Lee
University living from day to day on less than
6 hours of sleep. Success in America de-
mands a total commitment of time, energy,
and health all at the expense of our personal
happiness.

This summer, I got a chance to teach high
school students at Yale and some of them
were international students. One of my fa-
vorites was a student from Japan, and dur-
ing one of our conversations, we touched
upon the subject of American life. Our way
of life makes no sense to her because we have
no time to ourselves. We have no time to

rest our minds. We have no time to enjoy
each other and ourselves. We have no time
to just sit and breathe. Simply put, we just
have no time. Our time is spent studying,
working, and running from place to place. In
her country, they take time from their day to
rest, see friends and family, and to just chill.
And IMing and cell phones do
not constitute catching up
with friends. Actually meet-
ing them in person to discuss
things other than academics
and just have idle chatter and
giggle and laugh is spending
quality time.

We are so wrapped up in becoming success-
ful that we forget that it’s people who matter. It
doesn’t matter how many pairs of shoes we have
or how many diplomas we may have on our wall.
At the end of the day, they will not be able to put
their arms around me and give me some needed
TLC. When we reach our old age, our accumula-
tions of material goods will not give us peace.
It’s the people around us loving us who will give
us peace.

I am a usually optimistic person with a fairly
upbeat personality, but there are days that I am

Simply put, we just
have no time.
is spent studying,
working, and running

definitely blue and I can’t figure out why
because nothing bad happened to me. No
bad grades on a test, no parking tickets or
towings, nothing. But I just feel blue.
Now looking back at those times, I realize
that I was down because I hadn’t seen my
friends all day and I hadn’t been able to
have a long conversation
with my father. Instead, I
had been running from one
place to the next attending
meetings or doing school-
work.

The advice I often give to
friends when they are upset about some-
thing that has occurred is to just go with
the flow. But now I’m reconsidering.
Maybe the problem is that we are too of-
ten times going with the flow instead of
against it. The natural flow in our society
is to do, do, do; climb, climb, climb; and
work, work, work. Perhaps it is time for us
to reconsider our path in life and perhaps
go against the grain and flow. It may take
us to the top of the economic ladder, but
leave us at the bottom of the emotional
ladder. Just some food for thought.

Our time

Blame ESPN, not Limbaugh

Rush Limbaugh resigned from his post on ESPN’s Sunday NFL
Countdown this past week as a result of controversy stemming
from a comment he made about Philadelphia Eagles quarterback
Donovan McNabb. On last Sunday’s show, Rush said, “Sony to
say this, I don’t think (McNabb) has been that good from the get-
go; I think what we’ve had here is a little social concern in the NFL.
The media has been very desirous that a black quarterback do well,
black coaches and quarterbacks doing well. There is a little hope
invested in McNabb, and he got a lot of credit for
the performance of this team that he didn’t de-
serve. The defense carried this team.” While some
people may consider this comment ignorant or sim-
ply incorrect, Rush did not deserve to be forced
into resignation.

ESPN hired Rush Limbaugh to be a commentator on Sunday
NFL Countdown for one reason: to create controversy. He has
little knowledge about football, but certainly has a knack for mak-
ing debatable commentary. In the pure—numbers universe of cable
television, ratings are everything. ESPN sought to improve its rat-
ings by bringing in a ﬁgure who could pluck the emotional strings
of its viewers. In accordance with his purpose for being on the
show, Rush did just that. He made a jaw-dropping comment on live
television that created immediate controversy. How can a man be
faulted for doing his job?

I, for one, do not agree with Rush. I don’t think the media was
looking for an African—American darling to shower with praise sim-
ply because of his skin color. Two years ago, Donovan McNabb

 

SLICE ON LIFE
NICK MANNING ‘O7

finished second in MVP voting for the entire league. He led the
Philadelphia Eagles to two straight NFC Championships with a very
suspect supporting cast, and has been to three straight Pro Bowls.
Every offer of praise McNabb has received is weH deserved. How-
ever, I don’t think Rush should be out of a job because his football
commentary is unjustiﬁed. All blame in this matter should fall on
the laps of the big wigs at ESPN. These executives had to know
what they were getting into when they hired Rush Limbaugh. This
man has built his career on controversy. On his
syndicated radio show, Rush tackles divisive top-
ics with unrestrained fervor. Sirnply put, this is how
the man makes his living. IfESPN wanted to spike
ratings, it should have taken a different approach.
Turning Sunday NFL Countdown into CNN’s
Crossfire was not a wise business decision. Political and social
commentary has no place on ESPN. It is a network dedicated solely
to sports, and should remain that way for its enthusiastic viewing
audience.

While Rush Limbaugh’s comment was obviously discordant,
his intention was justified. He followed ESPN’s instructions and
analyzed an issue from his contentious perspective. Rush’s res-
ignation followed a day’s worth of harsh criticism from around the
country. Selﬂessly, he left ESPN “to protect network employees
from the uproar” of his criticism. Rush should not be condemned
for stating his opinion. I blame ESPN for making a poor business
decision in the matter. Unfortunately, some people will not recog-
nize that Rush simply did his job and was punished for it.

   
   

PHOTO COURTESY OF 1:/11/11/. 11/e/zlmm
RUSH IS RIGHT AND WRONG. Rush Limbaugh was deﬁnitely wrong about

MVP Pro Bowler Donovan McNabb, but it was a poor decision to hire a
man who makes politican commentary to do sports, and the blame
needs to go to ESPN. Rush does politics, and ESPN shouldn’t be
surprised to hear controversial commentary from a controversial man.

Dean of Students, as well as
their respective support
staffs, (who all also previ-
ously had adequate office
space on-campus)...” This
makes the unfortunate impli-

Editorial Note

In the September 15 is-
sue of the Ring-tum Phi, I
wrote the following: “Let’s
also not forget the inclu-

bers who have offices in the
commons do their jobs
poorly; in fact, I strongly
support these administrators
and staff members as being
some of the best, brightest,

hardworking staff members
who have offices in the new
commons do not interact with
students and don’t have im-
portant business related to
students. It was not at all my

ing the new Deans’ offices in
the Commons was a good
idea, it was not an absolute
necessity that mandated the
construction of the Com-
mons, nor were any of the

may have offended with
this poorly-thought-out
statement. I take respon-
sibility for the misplaced
words, and I am sorry for
the entire problem.

sion of the new non—stu-
dent offices, including that
of the Dean of Freshmen,

cation that the Dean of Stu-
dents and Dean of Freshman,
their staffs, and the other

intention to imply that Dean
Watkins, Dean Leonard, or
any of the other staff mem-

and hard—working people on
campus. My intention was
merely to say that, while plac-

other reasons I mentioned.
Nevertheless, I would like to
apologize to all the parties I

—Opinions Editor
Caley Anderson

Washington and Lee’s Class of 2007 will be holding its first election on 'I\1esday,
October 7, 2003 with runoffs (if necessary) the following Thursday and Monday. The
Class will vote for its representative to the Executive Committee, its representative to
the Student Judicial Council, and the Freshman Class President.

The students elected to these Respective Ofﬁces are being entrusted to continue
Washington and Lee’s legacy of student governance. As such, the Class of 2007

RING-TUM PHI

FRESHMAN Vo'rER’s GUIDE

should thoroughly examine each of the candidates to determine which one is most
qualiﬁed to execute the powers and the duties of the respective office. The Voting
Regulations Board urges all freshmen to participate in this time honored practice.

Sincerely,
Voting Regulations Board

Editor's Note. The candidates were asked to make
50 word statments about their positions on the
follwing issues:

Candidates for EC

Address issues such as budget allocations, the
University’s ban on music sharing and general stu-
dent happiness.

Candidates for SJ C

Cover how you plan to deal with students with
alcohol and drug infractions as well as your opin-
ions on appropriate sentencing and the

3-strike system.

Candidates for FLC President
Discuss your plans for class unity. Include any
ideas you have for specific class activities.

EC I_{epresentaﬁve

David Colman: I believe that file sharing should
not be dealt with by the EC, but rather by the
school’s administration]. Budgets must be allocated
to the groups that best employ and beneﬁt W&L’s
students. Student happiness should be one of the
first things taken into account in any decision, yet
student safety must always come first.

Joshua Florence: When it comes to music sharing,
I do not disapprove of it, however, since the ad-
ministration has disallowed it, I would have to en-

force their decision. As for student happiness, I
think we attend a great, but if there is ever anything
that I could do to make someone’s experience bet-
ter, then please do not hesitate to ask.

Davin Hunt: My positions are an increased bud-
get allocation percentage for Traveller, no ban on
student file sharing, and no more ban on fraternity
activities while the school is hosting events.

Diane Kuhn: I am running for the EC because
the Honor System here is unbelievable. I agree
with the ban on ﬁle-sharing, because it is sim-
ply complying with a national policy. If elected,
I will be open to everyone’s thoughts on school
policies and changes~every freshman will have
a say.

Lane Morgan: I have the utmost conﬁdence that
the Executive Committee did their best to remain
economical in detemiining the budget this school
year. While I am unhappy with the music—sharing
ban, I respect the decision made to protect W&L in
this controversial issue. It would truly be an honor
to serve the Class of 2007 on the Executive Com-
rnittee.

Rob Rain: IfI am elected to the executive committee
I will do my best to insure that our honor system is
upheld and enforced so that we can continue to
enjoy our current honor privileges. I will also try to
help allocate fair and appropriate funds for each
organization on campus

SJC Representative

Andrew Gulotta: I mimic Chris Rock in delivering
the wonderful message of “No sex in the Cham-
pagne Room.” I firmly believe in the three-strike
system, andl am willing to administer it. Whether
you vote for me or not, do yourself a favor: have a
good time, but be safe and mindful of yourself and
others.

Khaki Howe: The SJC is set up to uphold the tra-
dition of one’s responsibility at WLU. The penal-
ties of the SI C are appropriate. Although at times
they seem too severe, they are here to protect the
safety of students. The beauty of the three strike
system is that it allows you to make a mistake and
be able to redeem yourself without getting kicked
out of school.

Virginia Sadler: Like most incoming freshmen, I
came to Washington and Lee University believ-
ing that these would be the best years of my life.
During these next four years and beyond I will
be given so much by the Washington and Lee
community (faculty, staff, and alumni) that I feel
it is both an honor and a privilege to give back
what I can. As the SJ C representative I hope to
honestly and fairly represent the wishes of the
student body when dealing with drug and alco-
hol issues.

Freshmen Class President

Maria Blackwell: The Class of 2007 has a bright
future ahead of it. As your class president, I will
work with the FLC to plan great events that will
bring us closer together, so that we can have an
unforgettable freshmen year.

Tye Haeberle: Ifl were to state numerous promises
I had for the year ahead, they would not represent
the wishes of the student body. Instead they would
represent my own personal desires. Therefore, the
only promise I make is students’ voices will be the
biggest factor when planning events for the next
year.

Moses Tucker Lafﬁtte, IV: Quick issues: Spring
Term. . . Love it. Strike Policy... Hate it. I believe the

Greek System to be one of the most positive as— ’

pects of social life at W&L, and believe the
University’s crackdown is undercutting one of our

best features. I also encourage intramural/club team . »

sports.

Rhett McCraw: I, Rhett McCraw, as your class presi-
dent plan on creating a fun and exciting atmosphere
all year. My goal is to bring the class together
through fun and excting events. Some speciﬁc
points of mine are to, increase freshman voice in
student government, hold concerts and other par-
ties, and perhaps even a class trip at spring break
or in the summer (cruise, Cancun, etc.).

 

  

AIHSONPERRY
Sroms Eonor

mm m

MONDAY, OCTOBER 6, 2003

BY SARAH BLOOM
STAFF WRITER

A focused attitude has proved a winning tool
for the Washington and Lee Women’s Soccer
team.

The girls can now claim a winning record (8-0-l)
after their respective victories to: Mary Baldwin,
Randolph-Macon Women’s College, and Greensboro
college.

The Generals were victorious against Mary
Baldwin with a sweeping (7-0) score. Freshman
Anne Wiltshire scored and added an assist to her
record. Other goal-earners included sophomore
Kerry Giblin, freshman Sarah Helms, junior Liz
Clarke. M

Junior Maggie Hope made two assists. Senior
Heather Coleman and freshman Cara Burton each
claimed one.

Freshman Emily Binns further protected the Gen-
erals perfect game by blocking the only shot by Mary
Baldwin.

“We go in to every game with the same atti-
tude.” said freshman Sarah Helms of the win. “We
get focused for every game and play our best
against every team. This is what helps us perform
so well.”

Football loses
tight one, 15-9

tage.

STOP. Senior linebacker Ben Krasnoff had nine tacles and one sack Saturday.

BY CAMERON GARNER
SPORTS WRITER

W&L traveled to Randolph-Macon on Saturday to play the 0-4 Yellow
Jackets.

Unfortunately, the General’s road problems continued as they dropped a
close one 15-9. FreshmanBenLongwas 3-for-3 inwindy conditions including
a career high 42-yard ﬁeld goal.

Senior captain Ben Krasnoﬁledan amazing defensive elfortthatincluded
two huge defensive stops, one leading to a missed ﬁeld goal at the end of the
ﬁrst overtime.

After the Yellow Jackets scored a touchdown in the second overtime,
ﬂreyﬁnedupandnnssedmepomtaﬁer,givingﬂreGeneralsaclmmetocome
away with a double-overtime win.
'I‘heGeneralsdr‘ovedowntheﬁeld,ﬁnallycomingtoa4"' andgoalonthe 12
yard line, but Peter Dean’s pass to junior Taylor Callaham was well-defended
andtheGerIeralscouldn’toomeupwithfadepasstowir1thegame.

Deanwas11—for-26withl2»4yards, andthetwoheadedrushingattackof
freshman Richard Garland and sophomore Michael Iackett combined for 1 19
yards.

ThedefensewassnongasusuaL1eadbyKrasnofI”,withninetacklesand
one sack

'IheGeneralsgetbacktoactionathorneagainstCatholicat1:30this
Saturday.

PORTS

Women’s Soccer improves record to 8-0-1  

The team then took on RMWC where
Wiltshire again left her mark, scoring the game win-
ning goal for the Generals (2-1) off of an assist
from freshman Rebecca Cohn. Giblin took rights
to the only other goal by W&L off of a cross from
sophomore Heather Rogers.

Certainly the sweetest victory was at
Greensboro. The host team, celebrating
Parent’s Weekend, had the home-ﬁeld advan-

The girls walked into the game pumped after
last year’s close dual. They left victorious (2-0).
Wiltshire again led the team with her second game-
winning goal of the season.

Captain and Senior Fontaine Marcoux pro-
ceeded to secure the victory for the Generals with
her score off of a header with an assist by fresh-
man Blair Haws.

Junior Emily Barker protected the W&L net
with a save on a shot by Greensboro.

“It’s an exciting season  said Helms of the
team’s success. “We have a really young team,
but through their leadership, the upperclassmen
have done a great job of showing us how to
achieve success.”

The team looks forward to further victories
and a shot at playoffs in the near future.

 Rrsxrxrrnwr Per

PAGE 5 "

POWER. SENIOR FORWARD FONTAJNE MARCOUX PREPARES TO KILL A SHOT IN LAST WEEI<’s HOME GAME.

‘Hoos cometo Lexington, Men’s

lacrosse looks sharp in preseason 

the ego and the body of UVA’s sophomore standout midﬁelder Kyle. ‘ E ‘ »_

BY CAMERON GARNER
SPORTS WRITER

Tuesday night, UVA’s D-I national championship team rolled
into town having been in fall ball for over two months, ready to
play a green W&L team with just eight practices under their
belts.

Although the Cavs started their ﬁrst team the entire first
quarter and much of the second, W&L looked sharp and limited
them to two goals in the ﬁrst quarter.

Mostly in scouting mode, the Generals moved the ball well,
working out the kinks of a new year and seeing how the fresh-
men would react to the highest level of competition.

Even as W&L controlled the ball for minutes on end, the
notoriously stingy Wahoo defense didn’t allow a goal until the
third quarter when senior Dustin Martin beat his midﬁelder run-
ning left and bounced a shot past honorable mention All-Ameri-
can senior goalie Tillman Johnson.

Adam Chesbrough would later say about the General’s play:
“we played really well, but in all honesty, its hard to play poorly
when you have Jack “body” Murray on your team, I mean, he’s
sublime.”

To this, Body retorted, “well, I’m just one man, but Adam
Chesbrough, wow, he’s an amazing athlete.”

Bill Fox got in on the action as well, saying “J ack and Adam?
Did they get in the game? I couldn’t tell cause I was too busy
dominating. . .bOoyah.”

The highlight of the game came late in the fourth quarter as
W&L junior goalie Pat “GPrep” Casey absolutely demolished

Dixon.
Pat would later say, “I mean, it’s not that unusual, I crush people
on and off the ﬁeld.”

Washington and Lee got great performances out of their": 

defensemen as they went up against some of the toughest competi-
tion they’H face all year.

Senior Lawson Grumbine, and juniors Eric Koch and Bill Fox did ,
extremely well against the nation’s all-around best attack unit of Christ- ’

mas, Ward, and Yevoli.
Grumbine did an exceptional job handcufﬁng All-American
J ohrmy Christmas and allowing him only a few shots all game.

Junior Ben Morris, sophomore Andrew Edelston, and freshman- , L *

Charley McCombs looked sharp as well.
The midﬁeld, experienced and deep, looked solid as they played
a largely ﬂawless game, creating turnovers and controlling the of-

fense. The attack, rnissing leading goal scorer senior Matt Fink and‘ ~ «

two-year starter Gavin Molinelli, played well against a big, physical
UVA defense.
If Ansel Sanders played half as well for half the time, then he

would be playing twice as well as half the people thought. . .wait, what? , ~

Ansel was dominant as usual; he controlled the game for minutes at a
time before graciously stepping aside and allowing other people a
chance to get some time.

Martin had two goals and senior Rich Williams added another for
the Generals.

Washington and Lee’s next action is this Saturday in the armual
Alumni game at 9:00 am (whoa, 9:00 am exists on Saturdays?) on the
turf, be there or be. . .sleeping.

 

Riding team opens season at Radford

BY KATHERINE SHELL
SPORTS WRITER

The Washington and Lee
Riding Team opened their year on
Sunday, October 5, 2003 at the
Radford Invitational.

This year’s captains are Sa-
rah Murray ’06 and Sarah
Michaels ’04. The team has ﬁf-
teen members: twelve will be com-
peting on the ﬂat and three over
the fence. The over the fence rid-
erswillberiding on the ﬂataswell.

Competing at Radford as
over the fence riders will be Capt.
Sarah Michaels ’04, Hayley Skin-
ner ’06, and Caitlin Lane ’06.

“We’re really looldng forward
to Radford because this is going

to be a big year for us,” Capt. Sa-
rah Murray said.

Three new riders have been
added this year: Brynne Archer
’07, Brittany Bansak ’07, and Jean-
Rose Clarwater ’07.

Bansak and Clarwater will
both be riding in this week’s com-
petition as ﬂat riders.

Results of the invitational
were not available at press time.

“Our three new members are
excellent additions to an experi-
enced team; we’ve got talented
riders in every division and I think
we’ll be a strong presence in the
shows this year. Last season was
our best to date, and we’re hop-
ing to make our fifth year even
better,” Murray says.

  

COURTESY or ]EFF'E.RYVMCKENZ[E.TRlPOD.COM
GOOD LUCK. The riding team hopes to do better than last year.
Last year proved to be the best season in history for the Generals.

Monday, October 6 Tuesday, October 7

Wednesday, October 8

SCHEDULE

Friday, October 9 S“"”'day, 0010597‘ 10

Sunday, October 11

Golf at Greensboro--TBA
M tennis at I TA--TBA

Golf at Greensboro--TBA

M Soccer at Lynchbur -- Volleyball at SCAD W Tennis hosts W&L CIas- W Tennis hosts W&L
4:00 tournament--TBA sic—IBA Classic--T BA

W Soccer at Randolph- Field Hocky vs. Voﬂeybad at SCAD tourna-

Macon--4:00 Bridgewater-- 7:00 ment-TBA

Volleyball at _ Riding at ODAC’s -- M Soccervs. Rke.-11:00

Bridgewater--6:30 TBA Footbaﬂ vs. C¢ahoI1'c—1:30’

W Soccer vs. S. Briar—3:00
Field Hockey vs. Juniata—
4:00

Cross Country at State Meet-—
TBA

 

   

 

PAGE 6



Men’s soccer remains

undefeated, 5-0-2 overall

BY JOHN HYLAND
ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITOR

The mark of a good team is
its ability to get the job done
without playing its best. The

j Washington and Lee men’s soc-

cer team proved that they are a
good team in earning a hard

3 ' - j fought 0-0 tie last Wednesday at

Randolph—Macon (5-2-1, 0- 1- 1
ODAC) in an ODAC contest.
Coming off the heels of a 3-
1 victory over ODAC juggernaut
Hampden-Sydney last Saturday,
the Generals’ scoreless tie may
not have been as pretty, but it
was every bit as satisfying.
This sentiment was reiterated

I by junior goalkeeper Chris “DJ I

got this” Carlson who commented
after the game, “We deﬁnitely did

' - not play our best today but we are

very happy to get a tie.”

‘ Washington and Lee was
outplayed the entire game, sur-
rendering a season high 15
shots. The Generals offense,
which has been stellar the entire
year, scoring at least two goals
on every game was shutout and

1 ' 5‘ held to a season low 3 shots.

The Yellow Jackets defense
kept the Generals offensive super-
star, junior forward Brian Pirkle,

‘ ‘ without a shot the entire game.

The difference for the Gen-
erals were their goalkeepers, who
kept the potent Yellow Jacket of-

' ‘I fense in check.

Sophomore Michael
Stanton played the first half,
making 3 saves. But it was
Carlson who stepped up his
game when the rest of the team
did not. The California native
made 6 saves, including 3 key
stops in overtime to preserve the
tie and keep W&L unbeaten in
the ODAC on the season, with a
mark of 1-0-2.

The Generals got back on
track Saturday night in a non-
conference game against the Sa-
varmah College of Art and De-
sign. Unlike their previous out-
ing, the Generals wasted no time
in getting on the scoreboard.

Seniorrnidﬁelderlacobstoehr
found junior defender Peter Miller
for a goal just 11 minutes into the
game. Washington and Lee ex-
tended its lead to 2-0 on a score off
of a penalty kick by sophomore
midﬁe1derDei1ickLott

SCAD cut the lead in half
on a score early in the second
half but the Generals were able
to preserve the victory, despite
being out shot 17-16.

Stanton and Carlson once
again split time in goal and made
3 saves apiece. The Generals re-
main undefeated on the season
with a record of 5-0-2.

Washington and Lee travels
to Lynchburg on Wednesday be-
fore retiiming home to face con-
ference leader Roanoke on Satur-

day. TURN AROUND. Junior Peter Miller dribbles around the competition.

MONDAY, OCTOBER 6, 2003

Other Sports

FROM STAFF REPORTS

Volleyball wins three this week, now 13-2 overall

The Washington and Lee volleyball team defeated Guilford,
3-0 on Tuesday in matches of 30-18, 30-19, 30-13.

The Generals also defeated Roanoke 3-1 and Methodist 3-0
on Sunday at Roanoke College. Washington and Lee crushed

‘ Roanoke in a 30-13, 28-30, 30-23, 30-26 win. The Generals also

squashed Methodist in a 30- 14, 30- 17, 30-15 win.

The volleyball team is now 13-2 overall and 6-0 in the ODAC.
The Generals travel next to Bridgewater on Wednesday for a game
at 6:30 p.m.

Cross country competes in Dickinson Invitational

The Washington and Lee men’s and women’s cross country
teams competed in the Dickinson Invitational on Saturday. The
men competed in a 4K race, and the women competed in both the
4K and 6K races. ‘

Junior Steve Chambers led the men with a tenth place time of
13:10.13 inthe 4K race.

Senior Andy Schoir came in second for the Generals with a
16th overall ﬁnish and a 13:18.55 time.

In the women’s 4K race, freshman Tippens Stone placed
31st overall with a time of 16:27.87. In the 6K race, sophomore
Betsy Frayer finished 55th place with a time of 25:39.

The men and women compete next Saturday at the Virginia
State Meet.

Men’s tennis falls to Radford on the road Tuesday

The men’s tennis team lost to Radford Tuesday 6-1.

Senior Graham Nix had the sole singles win for the Gener-
als. He defeated Andre Cavaco 7-6, 6-0 in the number three
singles spot.

In doubles action, Nix and senior Austin Kim brought home
the only doubles win with a 8-1 victory over Tyler Eddins and
Dominic Soeur.

The Generals also competed in the ITA Southeast Regional
Tournament at Swarthmore on Saturday and Sunday. The final
day of competition is scheduled for today. Results were not
available at press time.

Field hockey overcomes two tough

BY JOHN HYLAND
ASSISTANT sponrs EDITOR

The Washington and Lee ﬁeld hockey team
came up short last week against two quality op-
ponents, Virginia Wesleyan and Mary Washing-
ton. The experience seemed to have helped them,
however, as they came back to demolish
Randolph-Macon’s Woman’s College on Satur-
day.

The team traveled to play Virginia Wesleyan
in a rare Sunday afternoon match—up. The Marlins
entered the game with an undefeated 7-0 record,
including a first place standing in the ODAC with a
3-0 record.

The Generals battled the Marlins tightly
throughout the first half. The game entered half-
time in a scoreless tie.

It was not until midway through the second
half that Virginia Wesleyan broke the ice in beating
Generals sophomore goaltender Courtney Harrison

to take a 1-0 lead.

The Marlins scored again minutes later to
break open the game. Generals senior forward Kelly
Taffe scored on a penalty comer with no time left
to make the final 2-1.

The final score did not indicate the tempo of
the game, however, as the Marlins out shot the
Generals 25-7 and had the advantage in penalty
comers, 11-7.

Credit goes to Generals goalies, Harrison and
sophomore Elise Gelinas for keeping their squad
in the game for as long as they did. They com-
bined to make 11 saves.

The Generals would not get a break on
Wednesday when they would travel to Mary
Washington to face the ninth ranked team in the
country.

From early on in the game, the Eagles demon-
strated their "position on the national stage, open-
ing a 2-0 lead just ten minutes into the game. Mary
Washington would extend their lead to 3-0 by half-

time and added another score in the second half to
make the final tally 4-0.

The Generals played the Eagles much more
tightly in the second half, after being out shot 8-2
in the first half. They out shot MWC 7-4 in the
second half but failed to_,get on the scoreboard.

After two tough ‘road losses against quality
opponents, the Generals took their frustration out
on Randolph—Macon Woman’s College at home
on Saturday in an ODAC match—up.

Sophomore forward Elizabeth Putney opened
the scoring for the Generals on an unassisted goal
ten minutes into the game. The Generals took the
1-0 lead into halftime but broke the game open in
the second half.

Five different Generals got on the scoreboard
in the second half, turning a narrow halftime mar-
gin into a blowout. Erin Rathbone, Jane Beall, Taffe,
Katherine Garrett and Arnaya Moure provided tal-
lies.

The Generals out shot RMWC 30-1 as goalies

osses this week

Harrison and Gelinas did not have to make a save.
The victory evened the Generals record at 5-
5 on the season and improved their ODAC record
to 3-1 . Washington and Lee will be in action again
this Friday night when they host Bridgewater.

 

MONEY. Beall keeps the ball away from her opponent

Golf Etiquette Tip of the Week:

Replace your divots in the fairway.

   
    

 
  

 

    
 
    

 

    

5 P i I it i E 3
   ~ PGtoRiA0g.Av¢sENcE §§J€tt€GEL
I   ‘Z. W tt.e'\'l'E£i;_ l.E-.’iiANt)i-31'1" E~fi‘Hi})E) ,
LOOK voun BEST FOR_ HoMEcoMmc!  N  a minus
Come by and see Skip, Connie and Wilson at the NEW LOCATION! _  ._  , Mm!“ 309 N_ Main St _  , VA 24450
J __ _ stoma
SKIP IHOMPSON s ,,,,___,.,~,,,a~ , .
  Scllfti s,£am Cash, 50 Free!
T ' How zring On-Campus Reps
Ccllfot «.13 ms
17 S. Randolph -- Lexington, VA gm’ X
Open Mon., Tues., Thurs., & Fri. 8 a.m. - 5pm.
Sat. 8 a.m. - noon; Closed Wed. & Sun.
540-463-5954
‘ I
University Sportwear ‘  

t't%;i.a§ i§%;§?lvt§2r~§i§—it.~‘lg lit-§§.7l>Z.!'t§s‘§» asi.a£1.m tale ttta 5 '
Fiiriﬁaaéstttzg  ass =f§i.E§’<§g -:§;i.zsi—a,:;l~:  fiesta neither the   M2 

your downtown location for

W&L apparel and gifts ’

New Exclusive Football Polo Shirt for the 2003 season

15 W. Washington Street
Lexington, Virginia
540-464-3000

 

 

 

 

MFEANMORGAN '.'::
Ains&Lii=EEDn0R
EMAr;M(imi\iiiB@ii/iiiniii

LIFE

 llin<;~’it:ir lira
RTS &

 

 

 

    
 

   
 

    
 
 

   

4 . ,
' PAGE7 MONDAY, OCTOBER 6, 2003 ' '
O
t Plenty offered at Homec onnn g
By MEGAN MORGAN There will be a seminar on “Global Warming:
‘ ARTS & LIFE EDITOR Status and Consequences” with guest David J.
» Harbor, Associate Professor of Geology, Elizabeth
This weekend is Homecoming, and in addition P. Knapp. Assistant Professor of Geology and
to the fraternity parties, the university host sev- Edgar W. Spencer, Professor Emeritus from 2:30 to
eral events for students and alumni. Below is a list 4 Pm-
ur of what is eorning up_ The W&L Film scoiety will show “The Hours” f
in the Elrod Commons Theatre at 7 :30 p.m.
Friday, October 10th; The Student Activities Board will host the -
band Karl Denson’s Tiny Universe at the W&L ‘
The university will be hosting several semi- Pavilion starting at 9. Tickets are needed to enter.
0 nars including “W&L Swings: Arts are Alive !” with _ » _
guests and “The Opposite Sex, Mating, Musk and Samrdays 0Ct0bel' 113 '
Mixed Messages”. Both seminars will be from 9:30
to 10;45 a_rn_ There will be a continental breakfast at Lee
I The university will offer a front and back cam- Ch-'t1Pel Plaza from 8330 to 10300 3-111-
pus tours from 10:30 a.m. to 12:00 p.m. Those that S0l Waclllilefs 3 l95l graduate Of W&L Wlll - _
are interested should meet at the Alumni House sign his latest novel “Blood Brothers” in front of
There will he an Alumni Luneheon for all stu_ the Commons Bookstore from 10:30 to 11:30 a.m.
dents, faculty and alumni in the Lee House Front The Homecomlng Tailgate Wllll band L005‘?
" Lawn from 1130 am to 1;3()p_m_ ln ease oft-gin, the Change will be held at the Law School Field from
event will be held at the Doremus Gynmasium. l 1330 a-1'l1-l° 1330 P-111
The law school is sponsoring T he John Tllﬁfe Will be t011fS Of the -l0l1l1 W- Elrod Unl-
Randolph Tucker Lecture with at 12:10 p.m. in the V€fSllY Commons from 10 a-m- to 12300 P-m- Start"
... Moot courtroom, . ing in the JWE Commons Lobby. .
The outing club will sponsor a hike of House A service of remembrance for recently de- ’
Mountain from 1 to 5 pm, All interested hikers ceased members of the W&L community will be
should meet in the Lenfest center parking Lot_ held at 10:30 a.m. in Lee Chapel. Speak! Washington and Lee alum, Tom Wolfe, spoke at last year’s Homecoming.
‘ H t t ' ' ~
0W 0 99 3 _ Nominees for Homecoming Queen Announced
   This year, students have " ’ —
.‘ REPRINTED FRON SEE 27TH, been asked to cast a vote for
- ~ 1979~RING_TUM PHI Homecoming Queen. The stu-
dent vote, which counts for 40%
Let’s face it To be “success- of the winner’s score, willbecom-
‘1. _ ful”with women, whileatW&L,re— biried with interviews.
' - ' quires more than a clean button- “As someone who cares a
down shirt or massive quantities of lot about W&L, I was honored
alcohol. The old “get ‘em wasted” just to be asked to be part of a
‘ scheme might get you a few blurry tradition like Homecoming,” said _
, experiences with somepock-marked Senior nominee Joarma Perini ‘
blimps,butitishardlygoingtioeam The winner will be an-
you that desired “stu ” label. nounced at Saturday’s football
To really rack up the notches ame. . A. V - » ~ ‘-
_'-K . on your belt you have to be utterly g Maltena M°“T° Carolyn Duffy Helen Hughes
' unscrupulous. Forget that you are
dealing with people. Your air is to
. . P] While . . . .
o ‘ i the subtle effects of the warped . j .
' A ' ferrialementality.
Too many guys make the mis-
ti take of chasing the whole ﬁelds at
once. This strategy might pay off I:
in the short term, but even future
homemakers of America can ﬁgure
.. out that they are being two-timed.
’ A much better approach, one that g .
‘ . it ‘ has consistently scored high  - —
marks on the long term pleasure Erin Johnson Lindsey Kneipper Eden Parks
scale, is lying. ” ‘
Now lots of people lie to get
. what they want, but they go about
' i‘ it haphazardly. I’m advocating a
calculated scheme of organized de-
ception.
First, you supply your target
4 with enough sentiment so that it
becomes easy for herto rationalize

her future downfall. Then, you set
out endearing yourself with her
friends. Impress them with your

* loyalty and sincerity.
After a carefully orchestrated
break-up, in which the “callous

 

 

   

Daley F orrnby

 

 

 

   

vamp” throws you to the wayside,
n these friends supply you with a :_ _
b fr hi h 1:. '
g‘:y,1fSb: g1:(‘;‘m“:mfmv‘:a:a‘;;St Not Pictured
their ex-friend in their attempts to
avoid becoming secretaries with a _
. good backgroundinarthistory. Melame Barr 
Nowisthatdifﬁcult? Joanna 
e Triple Nine Society ta Wofford
Founded 1978 _ . . .. - ‘ .
Extraordinary can-ta mderie Erin Lutkewitte Laura Westerman Ligia Abreu Mandi Kimble
in an - . . qﬁ ' o 0
international society of peers.    8 C ‘ 7
‘ old SA$'9l?ltg]0p::3cV$nStgi?r:1520 W  f    e  1   0
GRE 14é(|),tMi0|iT 35; ' H e or e l- 6 
see compe e ist at: ‘ .
_ K wvvw.tn'plenine.org or e  1 e I. S '”‘
' €11
Meetings on Mondays son Cuts   —
V i at 5; 1 5 in Cgaper Cu; WE’LL GET RID OF YOUR DIRT
- - Comp te Q30 y Care
M University Commons  .,,.
. room 341 §;"“?‘” .
“W Great Service ,_e
w. as . - - - -
_ ’1[,,G.,,j,‘f,,°.Z,f‘ F1rst—Rate Quality
: ass .i‘?tir ass: |

‘ _ , Or emal 463-9588

; l ‘   h  U  U dose to Campus 7 North Jefferson Street dry cleaning

i ss§§as§2tea.rs.ea2n p ' Q)r‘ﬁ;::::f;;,f;;;,”tﬂ a 463-3622 laundry, alterations

 

 

  
  

MEGANMORGAN
AKIS&LlFEEDl'IOR

&M Im _x.

MONDAY, OCTOBER 6, 2003

 

Tlili Rli"*JG~TL?M liar

 THE i AST ORD

Where have all the
fratemities gone?

BY MEGAN MORGAN
ARTS & LIFE EDITOR

The recent removal of Sigma Phi Epsilon
from the Washington and Lee campus has
_ - _drawn significant attention from the entire

’ student body. While this removal offers an

important lesson abut maintaining good rela-

_ . _'tions with one national headquarters, it also

” highlights the somewhat transitory nature of
the W&L fraternity scene.

Sigma Phi Epsilon is not the first frater-

nity to be forced off campus, and it will prob-

_. _ ably not be the last. A host of fraternities

' have come and gone leaving behind an empty

house and urban legends of the events

surronding their dismissal. But why did these

-gpfraternities leave? What chain of events

'cuased their removal. There are too many

storeis to talk about in one column, so instead

I will focus on one fraternity, the Delta Tau

. _ Deltas.  V _ in

'~ The Phi Chapter of Delta Tau Delta at o ' Us

Washington and Lee.was founded on June 24,

1896. The fraternity thrived on campus for

many years, attracting brothers mostly from

CAL

Ghost of fraternities past. Members of Delta Tau Delta and their dates pose for a picture before a fomial in 1992. This was their last year on the W&L campus.

the university. According to Burr Datz, a In order to scout for new brothers, alumni university was preparing to renovate the fra-

. . _the New England area. By the 1970, the fra-

' ternity was a major presence on campus. The
President of Washington and Lee, Robert
Huntley, was a Delt alum. The Inter-Fraternity

‘Council President was also a Delta. And
twenty to thirty percent of the All American
athletes from W&L were Delts.

However during the 1980s, the fraterni-

~ gties fortunes began to change and relations
’ began to sour between Delta Tau Delta and

former Delt, the fraternity was responsible for
“repeated violiations of national and univer-
sity understandings of what constitutes a fra-
ternity.” Theseincluded, among other things,
two public honor trials involving Delts. While
both students were acquitted, it left the
fraternity’s image tarnished.

The most major incident involved a rush
violation over the summer. At that time, fra-
ternities formal rush occured during the fall.

would throw parties for entering freshmen.
However, no alcohol could be served at these
parties. During one of these parties thrown by
Delt alumni, a freshman was served alcohol.
After leaving the party, he was involved in a
car accident which left him in a coma. As a
result, the fraternity was suspended for one
year. V

The final straw occurred in 1992 shortly
after the end of the one—year suspension. The

ternity houses and the Delts found the blue-
prints for these proposed changes and de-
cided to tear down the walls in the areas
scheduled for change. The Delts found that
“the university community were not pleased
with the “premature ‘renovations a few mem-
bers of our chapter chose to undertake”. THe
Delts were soon forced off campus and their
house became the current International
House.

   
 

__Urban mob takes over Lexington The Down and Dirty of Informal Rushlng ~
BY 1:.-ASHI0NISTAaS FUnY Meatheads. Social Climbers. Winter Term: Celebrate a good Rush or Kappas won’t be interested  you unless your
STAFF WMTER Loserballs. Elitists. Texans. Which one hck your wounds from abad Rush. And car costs more than your tuition. The SAE’s
are you? Well it doesn’t matter, freshman then there’s that pledgeship thing too, won't be interested in you unless the Kappas 3
. boys and girls, what you think you are. whatever that’s all about. are interested in you. The list goes on and ‘t
It has been brought to my attention that some resemblance whatever you think is wrong, You don’t onm_
of an urban inoh is Walking the streets of Lexington Last get your TRUE W&L identity (ahem, ste— Spring Term: Getready and pumped up For all the good things about informal
Week l spotted a niee Young lady elad tout'en'nolr (that’s all reotype) until that grand occasion of Tear to do it all over again. Rush—the free parties, the free brews, the mil-
- j ~ in black for You Spanish rnalors)- NoW there is nothing Wrong Night. You’ve got so much to look forward Simple and true, this is the way of lions of people who all want to shake your hand ’ . ~ ‘ .
With this Combination? hlaek is elassY- But: the Pleees she had to, but be careful — Don’t get things at W&L for — there is an ugly side we just can’t seem to
chosen and Paired I0gCth6I‘ made me fear that the Sharks and aheadof you!-Se1Ves_ You’Ve _______________________________________________________ __ the Greeks_ But shake_ Because we all want [0 “Wm” 01' be-
_ the Jets Were going to duke it out With KA and SAE for the A still got3more months before ABSOLUT FRATLORD while we all ﬁght to cause we’re all just secretly insecure, frat boy
~j- , hlggest rlVal_i'Y on _eaniPus~ The important thing here is that you choose your stereotype. T SMITH ‘O4 impress you fresh- and sorority girls will always dirty rush. And
there really is nothing Wrong With eaeh item in this ensemble Ihope you all caught the ———-IM—~—»L—— men, we are also so, the stereotypes will alwaysbe around. Wel— ‘
but clearly this fine young woman could use a few hints. Raging Inteuectuals piece this fighting against the come in W&L “
past week. Sanford Stone, a brilliant and stereotypes. By the end of the term, It is up to you, wonderfully intelligent ,;
‘ ~ g . ‘l- l-eaVe Your rnlni'skirt to the late‘night frat life» no one needs charismatic member of Mock Con Team you’ll know them all. freshmen, to see through the ruse. It is up to
to see that much thigh on the hlll- West Virginia, mentioned that “dirty” I’maLambda Chi. This whole frat you to get off your collective asses and visit ” '
phrase — the bane of every self-conscious lord thing is a sick joke — I’m a so— each and every house, and form your own opin-
2~ That hlaek hutton“uP shirt is Probably hest saVed for Aunt frat boy and sorority girl. cially awkward loser who likes to ions. If you’re dumb enough to believe what a
Ednats funerals and Prettl’ Please don’t tuek it in Dirty rush is inescapable. Some of us spendallmy timeinthe library. Idon’t fraternity brother or what an independent or
_ like to think that we are above it — that we know how to party, but I play a mean even what a school newspaper says about each s‘ .
3- StraPPY stilettos on the hill? You’Ve got to be kidding inet are too good to possible say something game of Scrabble. Oh, and I’m just and every house on campus, then I guarantee
Perhaps this ltern is What rnost aPPalled ine- There is a reason horrible about our Greek neighbors. But horrible at athletics and am the main you’ll be kicking yourself come Tear Night.
W&L girls Wear fliP'ﬂoPs to FDa and it has nothing to do With that’s ridiculous, given the way life is at reason my house is horrible in There’s a place for everybody on this campus,
comfort (if that were the ease We Would haVe stoPPed stareh‘ W&L. Perhaps a little orientation with the intramurals. you just have to see it for yourself. You've got
ing Polo collate Yeats a3o)- Safety is always our biggest eon‘ real W&L calendar is in order: The Chi Psi brothers are all sketchy three more months — after that, everything ‘
eern- Wearing ﬂiP'floPs PreVents trlPPing on the uneVen hrieks vampires. The KA’s won’t talk to you changes. Make the best of it. Take Sariford’s
of the eolohnades and l eantt even imagine What the trek haek Fall Term: Woo the freshmen. Try to entice unless you're from south of the Ma- advice: “filter through the crap and find out
~to Woods Creek from l-eYhurn Would he like in 4'lneh sPlkes- as many freshmen as possible, especially son-Dixon. The Fiji’s can talk football about the Greeks yourself.” You’ll be happy
' _ at the expense of your Greek rivals. all day but spit no game with girls. The you did. g
But back to the appearance of this Urban Mob... if they
~ 3 ,have in fact descended upon our campus perhaps they can
help protect us from another villain threatening Lexington: out Q Sleep is for the weak. Q Coach Franke says, “Stop (1) Is Jeb Brooks the most
of season Lilly Pulitzer. ~ K lollygaggingl” handsome man on campus?
_ -‘_ True, Lilly is good, Lilly is wonderful, and some may even Q Graharn—Lees second ﬂoor I A
‘ consider her a goddess. Everyone knows that these pastel Commons sidewou1dalsoliketri- Q‘ Ifyou are sitting infront of Q Students need to learn
frocks, with their animal prints and hidden Lilly signatures are » ply toilet paper. me in class, please wear under- the difference between the
' "the epitome of fashion genius on campus. It has even been wear. I don’t want to see your “Reply to All” and “Reply to
. scientifically proven that the number of Lilly pieces a fresh- H Q Instead of more Jason Srnee crack. ' A Sender” options in ,
- ' -fman girl owns directly corresponds to the sorority she will in the yearbook next year, there Groupwise. This mean you, ”
receive a bid from. But, my lady friends, it is now fall and we shouldbemore Hooters Girls (see Q Onthat note, semper ubi, sub SRC members.
‘must put away these pastel novelties until Spring Term, (this Q Ashley Hans, formerly page 99). ubi.
‘ includes all tote bags and other Summer flair). Website Girl,has matriculatedas Q Put some damn art in
‘ Yet you freshmen must wonder, “how can I get the al— a-sophomore at Ursinus College Q People who bitch and moan Q Freshmen should avoid Commons Roomalready. s
‘mighty sorority queens to know that I own seventy-two pieces is Collegeville, Pennsylvania. about ﬂipped—up collars should drinking the booze of those kind
of signature Lilly?” The answer is simple: talk about it; all the find a better cause to champion. enough to give them sober rides. Q Go to the Blood Drive
time, no matter where you are: in line for the keg, on your way Q The key to starting a suc— A Wednesday in Doremus. It
‘ '_*to class, and especially at all Meet the Greeks and sorority cessful W&L relationship is Q 100+ student classes? The Q Kudos to the Ohio delega— really doesn’t hurt.
'-affiliated functions, particularly during rush week itself. (At poor communication. Swathmoriﬁcation of W&L has tion for throwing the ﬁrst party 3*
this point you may even find it necessary to revive your sum— begun! of Mock Con 2004. Q Can Men’s Soccer be
met Lilly and wear it during rush week just to be sure the so— Q W&L does have variety— stopped? They won again!
rority women are extra impressed.) Talking about Lilly is al— just look at all the different Q Skateboarding (andMOUN— Q Who the hell thought it
E . ' most as cool as wearing a Sundress in October. Remember: types of jam bands that come TAIN BOARDING) is illegal on wouldbea good idea to play live Q Studentvoting forHome- _
sometimes our actions can be tackier than our wardrobe. to campus. Campus. music at the piano in the Com- coming Queen is aracket and 1‘
You may be Southern, and we’re all well aware of W&L’s mons Room on Sunday nights? just plain dumb. Can you say
- reputation as a Southern school, but ladies it’s cold outside! Q If the Burishes have any Q I think Robinson Hall must One can hardly think, let alone popularity contest?
‘ ‘ Go ahead and wear your ﬂip—ﬂops, I won’t call you out for consideration for the have died. It certainly smells like conduct a meeting.
that, but trade in that strappy pastel number for a super-sweet University’s history, they would it did. Q Way to go Ansel Sand- 3 1
North Face ﬂeece, and talk about that a lot too, especially how let the Lee cats stay in Q The lights in the Commons ers!You keptthe lacrosse team
s much it cost, and NEVER admit that you bought it on sale. A Traveller’s barn. Q If you haven’t yet, call Co- bathrooms take so long to turn in the game against UVa.
1- i - ‘really good way to make sure everyone on campus knows that lumbia to have your gas turned on, one’s business is usually
you too own the W&L essential North Face ﬂeece is to place Q Cheers to the ILL staff in on. _ completedin the dark. Q BTW: Washington and
a Campus Notice stating: “I, Drunk Freshman, left my black Leyburn for making interlibrary ' Lee is still the University of t‘
, _ North Face ﬂeece at Fratty McFratfrat’s house on Friday night. loans available via e-mail. Q Geology tip: When identify- Q Can you believe that Chi Virginia.
'3' I ‘It has all of my Bobbi Brown make—up, my swipe card, car keys ing an unknown rock, always Omega, KappaDelta (arnazingbut
to my new BMW SUV and cell phone in the pockets. This Q Only 9% of the population taste test first to make sure it’s true!) and Kappa Kappa Gamma Q Fashionista says: Earth
jacket has a lot of sentimental value, please return.” Talking‘ of Hawaii is ethnically Hawaiian. not Halite. were all involved in Rush viola- tones look great in this cool »
_. about your expensive clothes can only assure your proper tions this weekend? weather,
’ spot amongst the ranks of the W&L sorority women; but wear— Q Graham-Lees second ﬂoor Q When the temperature out-
“ing Summer Lilly in the fall could make you the next victim of commons side would like Helen side is below 40 degrees, wearing Q Props to Kappa Sigma for Q E-mail your anonymous
the Fashionista. Hughes to come visit. sandals may not be the best idea. exploding a car. Quick Hits to phi@w1u.edu. s

 

 
 
   

.

JEB BROOKS

EDITOR IN CHIEF

Kevin White has resigned his post as Execu-
tive Committee Vice President. White was ar-
rested on Saturday, October 4 at l0:45p.m. for
driving under the inﬂuence of alcohol.

Helen Hughes, President of the Executive
Committee, said that, “the EC supports his resig-
nation and wishes the best for Kevin.”

As of The Ring-tum Phi ’s press time plans
for replacing White had not been ironed out.
Hughes plans to make the campus aware of the
EC’s procedures as soon as possible.

According to police reports, central dispatch
received a report of an accident at the intersec-
tion of Nelson and Main in downtown Lexington
on Saturday night. Officer Jonathan G. Shenk
arrived on the scene where he discovered that
White’s Chevrolet Blazer struck another vehicle.
The officer deduced that White had not waited
for the other car to proceed through the intersec-
tion before he commenced his left turn. White
was charged with failing to yield the right-of-way

 WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY
T HE

NG-TUM

Tie rhrdrril roire of Washington and Lie Urrirerrin shire 7897
Executive Committee vice president arrested, resigns

PHI

.O2%

.10%

.30%

 

How DRUNK ARE YOU? KNOW YOUR BAC.

 

Each mug equivalent to .()l%. Statistics from Virginia Department of Alcoholic Beverage Control.

The legal lirriit for persons under 21 driving under the inﬂuence.

 

The legal limit for persons age 21 and over while driving.

up to 12 months

ing to Sutton.

2CI)E’s complaint
against AACIJ to
be heard Tuesday

 

ERIN JULIUS
NEWS EDITOR

Washington and Lee’s lo-
cal fraternity drama will be taken
to the national level this week.

On Tuesday, the North-
American Interfraternity Confer-
ence (NIC) will hear Sigma Phi
Epsilon National’s complaint
against Alpha Delta Phi Na-
tional with regard to the coloni-
zation on Washington and Lee’s
campus. AD Phi has initiated
members who had been initiated
into SigEp.

A problem arises because
SigEp does not believe it re-
leased the brothers of its Wash-
ington and Lee chapter when it
revoked their charter. AD Phi
believes that the men are no
longer brothers of SigEp and
were therefore eligible for initia-
tion into AD Phi.

“The complaint is that Al-
pha Delta Phi violated the Co-
mity Agreement,” said Dean of
Students Dawn
Watkins, “If AD
Phi is found in
violation, the
penalties asso-
ciated with that
will be at the
National level.”

“The complaint is that
Alpha Delta Phi violated
the Comity Agreement. If

AD Phi is found in
violation, the penalties

ternity, until the fraternity with
which such group was previ-
ously connected has officially
given written notice to the Con-
ference that all rights have been
waived by them, or until five
years have elapsed from the date
of resignation or disassocia-
tion.”

According to Watkins, the
Comity Agreement is something
the NIC takes very seriously,
“Jon Williamson [President of
the NIC] told me that the Comity
Agreement is ‘one of the most
sacred aspects of the Constitu-
tion,”’ she said.

Watkins also believes that
it is somewhat ironic that the is-
sue arises because of the Comity
Agreement, because normally
smaller fraternities are protected
by the agreement, whereas in this
case, the larger fraternity is
SigEp and it is using the Comity
agreement to act against the
much smallerAD Phi.

SigEp has 264 chapters na-
tionally, while
AD Phi has 26
chapters in the
U.S. and
Canada.

The University
will be informed
of the NIC’s de-

Punishmentwill _ _ _ cision before
not be gar_ associated with that will be noon on
nered at the 10- at the National level_’’ Wednesday.
cal level. The NIC is
The NIC DAWNWATKINS composed of 66
vice president DEANOFSTUDENTS fraternal orga-
called Watkins nizations,witha

on Friday morning to inform her
about the hearing Tuesday.

If AD Phi is found to be in
violation of the Comity Agree-
ment, it may appeal the deci-
sion at the NIC’s next board
meeting in April, however, in the
interim, any penalties would
remain in effect.

The Comity agreement
states that, “No member frater-
nity shall accept a petition for
membership, grant colony or
other affiliated status, or grant
a charter to any group sub-
stantially representing an exist-'
ing or previously resigned or
disassociated colony or active
chapter of another member fra-

total of 5500 chapters in the
United States and Canada. It is
led by a Board of Directors, all
volunteers, and headquartered
in Indianapolis. Its rriission is
to, “advocate the needs of its
member fraternities through en-
richment of the fraternity experi-
ence; advancement and growth
of the fraternity community; and
enhancement of the educational
mission of the host institutions.

The NIC is also committed
to enhancing the benefits of fra-
ternity membership,” according
to its Mission Statement.

Efforts to get in touch with
SigEp’s Executive Director were
unsuccessful.

to the other vehicle.
Shenk began filing a routine report. While talk-

White was charged with failing to yield the
right-of—way, driving under the inﬂuence and re-
ing With White, th€ Ofﬁcer n0tiC6d 8 strong Smell Of fusing a breathalyzer test. He is scheduled to
alcohol as well as his bloodshot and watery eyes.
This gave probable cause for an arrest.

appear in court on October 21 at 9:00a.m.
According to Officer Sutton of the Lexington

was elected to the

PMONDAY, OCTOBER 13, 

Police Department, judges have a great deal of
leeway with a case such as this one. White
faces the possibility of losing his driver license
for up to 12 months and being fined. The judge
also has the opportunity to sentence White to

in jail. Because this punish-

ment is more severe, it is also more rare, accord-

The University’s policies may also affect
White. The Student Judicial Committee hears
all cases of drunk driving. The suggested pen-
alty for driving under the inﬂuence of alcohol is
suspension. According to the 2003-2004 Stu-

“drunkenness, when it results

in behavior that endangers self or others” can

Equivalent to dent Handb00K
surgical
anesthesia. I'CS1llt  3  Strike.

The book also states that a first strike re-
sults in, “mandatory education and counseling,
plus moderate sanction. Parents notiﬁed upon
charge and disposition.”

White is a member of the Law class of 2004.
His undergraduate degree is from Randolph-
Macon College, where he graduated in 1999. He

Executive Committee last year.

Homecoming 2003

Crowned Queen! Carolyn Duffy, Pi Kappa Phi’s nominee for Homecoming Queen was crowned. “It was such a shock to hear my named called as the _
Homecoming Queen. Itwas a day I’ll never forget, the perfect collegernemory. I’m so proud that both students and faculty chose me to represent the
University, and it has been humbling to receive congratulations ﬁom so many different people,” said Duffy. See page 7 for more on Homecoming.

STEVEN MARINOS/ RING-TUM PHI

Phi Eta Sigma, national honor
fraternity, works for recognition

This year, Washington and Lae’s campus‘ will see a publicity campaign for freshmen by this fraternity

BY IMRAN NAEMULLAH
CONTRIBUTING EDITOR

Phi Eta Sigma might not be
the most recognized name on
campus, but it
claims over 130
W&L students
as members.

This national
honor society for
college fresh-
men, was
founded in 1923
at the University
of Illinois at Ur-
b a n a -
Champaign, mak- .
ing it the oldest _
freshman honor- _
ary society in
America. It has
over 700,000 members nation-
ally spread amongst over 300
chapters.

W&L’s

chapter was

  
 
 
 

founded in 1937, making it the
oldest Phi Eta Sigma chapter in
Virginia; the next oldest is the
one at William and Mary,
founded in 1965. This year, Phi
Eta Sigma is de-
termined to make
sure its name is
better recog-
nized at W&L.

‘ The officers
are junior Alex
Schaerrer, presi-
dent; senior
Cullen Carter,
vice president;
junior Robyn
Konkel, secre-
tary; and junior
Kim Sanford,
treasurer.

They most re-
cently met on Sept. 23 with
Deans George Bent and David
Leonard to plan out their activi-
ties for the year and brainstorm

how to make their presence
more widely known on cam-
pus.

Said Schaerrer, “Our goal
is to make Phi Eta Sigma a
driving force on campus. We
want to help serve as a bridge
between learning and leader-
ship.”

Some of the key methods
which they identified to in-
crease their name-recognition
include t—shirts, a page in the
yearbook, and sponsoring
more community service
events.

They are also working to-
wards increasing their
“group solidarity,” as Bent
put it, by doing things like
planning activities for their
members which balance fun
with the intellectual caliber of
its members.

According to Schaerrer,
membership in Phi Eta Sigma

requires a class standing in
the top 20 percent at the close
of winter term.

Membership is not auto-
matically conferred upon
freshmen meeting this re-
quirement; they must apply
and be selected by the soci-
ety.

Benefits of the society in-
clude recognition from em-
ployers

To help increase aware-
ness of Phi Eta Sigma among
the freshman class, the group
plans on having an ice cream
social followed by a movie in
the Commons at a point in the
not too distant future.

Plans are also in the
works to find out if faculty can
be inducted as honorary mem-
bers of Phi Eta Sigma. For more
information on Phi Eta Sigma,
contact President Alex
Schaerrer.

 

  

  

JAMES (3. ?..39'W_,.3$«” ‘.-it‘:'{ﬂY
 5  m‘

PAGE 27

MONDAY, OCTOBER 13, 2003

  

N-Its‘aR.t-rs-'tr=:.a'Et§

Plans for PayneHall renovatio

Construction. To help facilitate the renovation being done on Payne Hall, there has been a fence constructed
around the building so as to block any construction sounds and hide any messes made. The fence has been
painted red in order to preserve the uniformity of the Colonnade. The Payne Hall Construction is just the ﬁrst

in a series of renovations on the Colonnade.

Payne Hall is receiving the first of many up-
dates to the Colonnade. The old Dean of Students
ofﬁce is being converted into a new meeting room.
The room will be entitled the
Mason New Room in honor of
Mason New, an alumnus of
Washington and Lee. A gift
was given in his honor to fund
the room. The gift covers all
of the cost which comes to a total of $500,000.

“The money was given by a foundation in
honor of [New] so the President could have a for-
mal reception area for important guests,” stated
Joe Grasso, Vice President for Administration. Vari-
ous groups can also use the Mason New Room for
high visibility speakers and meetings.

The former Dean of Students ofﬁces are now
going to be one room. “The Mason New Room is
unique in that we have an architect form
Charlottesville who is a Washington and Lee alum-
nus,” commented Grasso. The plan is for the Ma-
son New Room to have a historical interior design.
The Mason New Room will pay tribute to the
university’s rich past and presence in Rockbridge
County.

The wall treatment and furniture of the Mason
New Room will be from period style of 100 to 150
years ago. “This will not be a stuffy restored room,

  
 

UNIVERSITY BLUEPRINTS

it become a reality

but a room that has a historic presence that func-
tions in a modern way,” said Grasso. Possible art
work may include portraits of various United States
presidents or portraits of very
important people to Washing-
ton and Lee.

A construction fence has
been placed around the build-
ing. ‘This function of the fence
is to reduce the noise and visual construction. The
project began September 1 with internal demolition
and removal of asbestos from the building. The
construction is expected to be completed in the
middle of January 2004.

The ofﬁces left vacant by the Dean of Fresh-
men and her staff, in Payne Hall, are at the moment
being used by the English Department as faculty
ofﬁces. In other changes to Payne Hall, an elec-
tronic classroom was added over the summer.

This is just the first phase in a lengthy, enor-
mously expensive project to renovate the Colon-
nade. The improvements will take place over the
next decade. The administration hopes to set a
precedent with the Mason New Room for the rest
of the Colonnade. The style being historical, tak-
ing in all of our heritage as a university, and make
the buildings function in an advanced technologi-
cal manner.

ail {news brier;.,,t¢i=-phiowtu. C"

 

Need Technical Training?

If your classes require that you make oral presentations and if
you wish to do them professionally, or if you have been given as-
signments requiring you to develop WWW sites with class related
material, you might consider getting some free training in three very
important areas.

The Tucker Multimedia Center (TMC) is continuing its training
program for students on web and presentation software use and will
again be offering evening training sessions on 1) Power Point pre-
sentation software, 2) Adobe Photoshop and scanning techniques,
and 3) Front Page web page development basics. Topic dates and
times are listed below. It’s quick and it’s easy and free, so mark your
calendar. Yes, enrollment is limited, so register early.

Web Page Development using Front Page
Tuesday, October 14, 2003

7:30 pm

TMC, Tucker Hall 408

Power Point Presentation Software
Thursday, October 23, 2003

7:30 pm

TMC, Tucker Hall 408

Adobe Photoshop and Scanning
Thursday, October 30, 2003
7:30 pm

TMC, Tucker Hall 408

Go to the Tucker Multimedia Center web page at hnp://tmc.wlu.edu
to sign up for student training. Look for the “services” link in the
main menu. Sign up via the email link and remember to indicate which
session(s) you wish to attend.

Washington Term applications due next Tuesday

Want to spend Spring Term in our Nation’s Capital? The dead-
line for the Washington Term Program Internship applications is
Tuesday, 5 :00 p.m., October 21, 200. You may obtain your applica-
tion online or outside Professor Connelly’s office, Room 304, in the
Williams School.

For more information about the Internship Program, please at-
tend the Information Session tonight, Monday, October 13, 2003, at
7:30 p.m., in room 221 of the Williarns School.

Need Financial Aid for study abroad programs?

Ifyou plan to participate in the Spring Term Abroad Program and
will need ﬁnancial assistance, come by the Financial Aid Office AS
SOON AS POSSIBLE. You must verify with the Financial Aid Ofﬁce
that you have the required forms on file. Written notiﬁcation of fman—
cial aid awards will be sent prior to Thanksgiving break if ﬁles are
complete by November 6.

Media CEO to Speak

J. Stewart Bryan III, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of
the Virginia—based Media General Inc., will be speaking Tuesday
at 7:30 p.m. in Lee Chapel. His talk, sponsored by the Department
of Journalism and Mass Communications, is entitled “The Evolu-
tion of News Delivery in the 20th and 21st Centuries.”

In his 35 years as a news executive, Bryan has built quite an
ampire. Media General is a Southeastern communications com-
pany with 25 daily newspapers, 26 network—affiliated television
stations and interactive media holdings, including the Richmond
Tlmes-Dispatch, The Tampa Tribune and WFLA, which is the top
television station in Florida. It also hold partial ownership of The
Denver Post. 100 other periodicals are also held by Media Gen-
eral.

Bryan was named as the vice president of The Tribune Co. in
Tampa, then went on to serve as its executive vice president, and
then became President and Publisher of The Richmond Times-
Dispatch and The Richmond News-Leader in 1978. Those papers
merged in 1992.

Bryan graduated from the University of Virginia and currently
serves on several media boards, including the Newspaper Asso-
ciation of America, the Foundation for American Communities and
the Virginia Historical Society.

Monday, October 13 is Christopher Columbus Day, a Federal holi-

day in the United States.

Important FactsAbout Chrktopher Columbus:

In 1492, he left Spain for his ﬁrst voyage. He landed in San
Salvador at Cap-Haitien and returned home to Palos, Spain, in 1493.

In 1493, he left Spain for his second voyage. He landed on
Marie—Galante, then went again in Cap-Haitien, St. Ann’s Bay, and
returned to Cadiz, Spain, in 1496.

In 1498, he left Spain for his third voyage. He landed in Santo
Domingo, and returned home again to Cadiz, Spain in 1500.

In 1502, he left Spain for his fourth and ﬁnal voyage. He landed
on the Bay Islands off of Central America, Portobelo, and then re-
turned home to Sartlucar, Spain, for the ﬁnal time.

He later died in 1506.

Hs_“TTD.o 3'

Yesterday was the 133rd Aiiniversery of Lee’s death.
What follows is Lee’s definition of a gentleman: ,

The forbearing use of power does not only form a touchstone, but
the manner in which an individual enjoys certain advantages over others
is a test of a true gentleman.

The power which the strong have over the weak, the employer over
the employed, the educated over the unlettered, the experienced over the
conﬁding, even the clever over the silly—the forbearing or inoffensive
use of all this power or authority, or a total abstinence from it when the
case admits it, will show the gentleman in a plain light

The gentleman does not needlessly and urmecessarily remind an
offender of a wrong he may have committal against him. He cannot only
forgive, he can forget; and he strives for that nobleness of self and
mildness of character which impart sufﬁcient strength to let the past be
but the past. A true man of honor feels humbled himself when he cannot
help humbling others.

RARY. GOV

 

Faculty calendar vote over,
decision left to Board of Trustees

FROM STAFF REPORTS

Washington and Lee’s
faculty voted October 8-10
and October 10-12 on the
three calendar proposals.
The options were for retain-
ing the current 12-12-6 cal-
endar, moving to a 13-13-4
calendar or a 14-14 system
Vote one narrowed the op-
tions to two, while the sec-

ond vote determined which
option the faculty preferred.

After the first vote, the
13—13—4 “compromise” cal-
endar was eliminated. The
second round of voting,
which began on October 10
and ended Sunday night
will determine whether the
faculty chooses the 12-12-6
or 14-14 calendar.

Votes are being tallied by
the University Registrar to-
day and will be reported to
University Officials and the
Washington and Lee commu-
nity shortly thereafter. The
ultimate decision will be
made by the Board of Trust-
ees, which will discuss the
issue in late October.

The Board of Trustees

will be meeting October 23
through the 25, at which point
they will discuss the calendar
decision, taking into account
the opinion of the faculty.

The Board is responsible
for determining Washington
and Lee’s budget and will
have to look at the cost im-
plications of any calendar
changes.

to ﬂooding

Chi Psi’s Late Night shut down due

PHOTO courmzsy MICHAEL LEE
Flooding! There was ﬂoodingin Chi Psi’s house, The Lodge, this Homecoming weekend. The brothers

had to evacuate their Late Night D} party because the ﬂooding made it a safety hazard.

BY ERIN JULIUS
NEWS EDITOR

Chi Psi’s notorious Late
Night party was shut down by
the brothers this Homecoming
Saturday due to ﬂooding.

“It was a safety issue, we
didn’t want anyone slipping,”
said Chi Psi President Brooks
Batcheller.

The ﬂooding was in the
basement of Chi Psi’s house,
where a DJ party was taking place
as part of the fraternity’s Home-
coming festivities..

The party was already wind-
ing down when one of the toilets
upstairs ﬂooded, causing pipes
to leak. Between 3 and 3:30 a.m.
it became clear that there would
be a safety issue, so the base-
ment was evacuated. The water
had to be shut off.

Sophomore brothers had to
clean up the ﬂooding mess and a
plumber will have to be called to
fix the pipes.

 

 

MONDAY, OCTOBER 13, 2003

S“l‘ii15“il‘3‘éDiToRiAL

 

Plan sober ride

Kevin White resigned from the Ex-
ecutive Committee. The Ring-tum Phi
lauds his decision. His choice to step
down from the EC was appropriate in
light of his recent arrest for driving un-
der the inﬂuence of alcohol. His experi-
ence should open the eyes of Washing-
ton and Lee students to the risks of drunk
driving and the need to plan for a safe
ride home.

We believe that there is never an
excuse to get behind the wheel of a car
while drunk. When you drink and drive
you do not just put your own life on the
line, but also the lives of everyone on the
street. Last year, 17,000 people died as
a result of drunken drivers. Anyone who
has the competency to be a Washington
and Lee student also has the intelligence
to plan for a safe ride home. Every stu-
dent has got to plan a way back. Count-
ing on staying “pretty sober” is not a rea-
sonable excuse.

Washington and Lee University of-
fers a sober ride system that has its ﬂaws,
but its use is far better than risking lives.
Now is not the time for complaining.
Recent events should inspire students to
make Traveller better. It should encour-
age us all to see the need to work on the
program.

Don’t get us wrong, we enjoy
embibing just as much as the next Wash-
ington and Lee General. It’s fun and
exciting, wild and fun, cool and tough
and quite simply, a blast. Drinking and
college life have gone hand-in-hand as
long as there have been students looking
for something to do. However, the term
“drinking” must be preceded by “re-
sponsible.” Be careful and plan a so-
ber ride.

We support Mr. White’s decision to
uphold the integrity of the Executive
Committee by resigning. The commit-
tee is more than the people‘who serve
it. It represents the most cherished and
hallowed traditions of our University.
Thank you Mr. White. You did the right
thing.

 

“Welcometothe party.”

~'Ihe ReverendAl Sharpton, in response
to Wesley Claik’s implication that
Democrats shouldn’t attack other
Democratsinatough2004Presidential
election.

(.'.‘EHl':<'(:TC?€ 3.>:i-  il.<w:>iz2.n*:

G-TUM PHI

Editor in chief Jeb Brooks
Assistant Editor Kyle Wass
News Editor Erin Julius
Opinions Editor Caley Anderson
Arts & Life Editor Megan Morgan
Photography Editor Cody Gabbard
Sports Editor Allison Perry
Asst. Sports Editor John Hyland
Production Assistants Hilary Henry
Chad Kiewiet de Jonge
Emily Edwards
Copy Editor Anne Iadarola

Editorial Director Katie Howell

  

Business Manager Pan] seifert
Circulation Director Hem-y G1-imbau
Distribution Dir. Thomas Worthy

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during
the undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee
University, Lexington, Virginia. The Washington and
Lee Publications Board elects the Editor in chief, but
The Ring-tum Phi is otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible sub-
missions and letters. All submissions must be e-mailed
to plii@wlu.edu or in the University Center mailbox by
5 p.m. Friday to appear in the following week’s edition.
The Ring-tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions
for content and length. Letters and columns do not
necessarily reflect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi
Editorial Board. Advertising does not reﬂect the opin-
ions of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper
observes current oourt deﬁnitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-turn Phi
University Commons Rm. 341
Washington and lee University

Lexington, Wrginia 24450

Telephone: (540) 458-4060
Fax: (540) 458-4059
Email: phi@wluedu

TH:E RlN(.§-’_§TllE?»::i_ Pat

CAIEYANDERSON
OPiNioissEDIioR

' mm m

PINIONS

No change needed

BY IMRAN NAEEMULLAH, ‘05

According to the many signs ﬂoating around campus lately, Wash-
ington and Lee is a hotbed of anti-homosexual discrimination. My favorite,
“W&L is number 2” is at once ambiguous and intriguing. Placing it in
context of the other signs (including “homophobia is a curable disease”
and “come out, come out wherever you are”) leads me to believe it refers to
W&L’s number two ranking in this year’s Princeton Review for “alterna-
tive lifestyles not an altemative.” That’s a pretty heady reputation, and
according to the message implied by the posters, it is a well-deserved
ranking and that needs to be changed. But is this ranking truly deserved
(and I will argue no), and if it’s not, then do we really need to change much?

We can all agree that W&L students are prone to inﬂated perceptions,
whether about how much we drink, how much we study, how Southern the
culture here is, how male-dominated this campus is, and so on. Perhaps,
then, we can also agree that the stereotype of W&L as ultra-conservative,
intolerant of “deviant” lifestyles, and generally “un-215‘ century” is also a
distorted one that must be corrected. The favorite refrain of liberal activ-
ists on campus is usually that they love this school but they have serious
issues with things like our lack of “diversity,” our “homophobia,” and our
tendency to be judgmental. In other words, they say, this school is won-
derful except that it is so conservative and if only we could fix a few things,
then it would be perfect. But is W&L so conservative? What exactly do
you mean by “conservative” anyway?

If we are politically conservative because we tend to vote for (or at
least profess support for) Republicans, then so be it. If we are conserva-
tive because we love our school’s traditions, then that’s great. But to
proclaim us socially conservative is bizarre. A true social conservative
would frown upon our drinking, our sexual activities, our drug-taking, our
occasionally foul language, and the like. We are not exactly social liberals,
particularly when it comes to expressing what we believe as opposed to
what we actually do, but we are more moderate than anything else. And
following this train of thought, I would not call this school “homophobic”
as a rule.

First off, let’s define “homophobia.” The American Heritage dictio-
nary says it is “fear of or contempt for lesbians and gay men.” I don’t think
that people here have a “fear” of homosexuals; some might dislike the act
of homosexuality, some might mock it because they perceive it as funny,
but this is not fear. Very few people, in my judgment, are scared of homo-
sexuals. “Contempt” is also largely inapplicable. There are no doubt some
people at this school who do not want homosexuals to join their fraterni-
ties or sororities, or would rather not have a homosexual roommate, but
“contempt” implies scathing hatred, an adjective I would certainly not
ascribe to any W&L student’s emotions. Even on the Spring Term issue,
where students’ passions have ﬂared up as they haven’t since coeduca-
tion, the debate has been impressively civil. .

This word, “civil,” brings us to the heart of the matter. W&L prides
itself on its civil and genteel atmosphere. This must extend to all members
of campus. Therefore, racism is unacceptable, as are sexism, ethnocen-
trism, “fraternity—ism,” and any other negativism you’d like to include.
Civil behavior, which gentlemen and gentlewomen must embody, requires
that we shun these negative traits. The posters around campus imply a
need to take action; they are a call to repeal this school ’s alleged anti-
homosexual atmosphere. But I think they overestimate this school’s “con-
servatism” and in doing so, inﬂate perceptions and distort reality. If we
reaffirm our commitment to civil behavior, then this whole debate need not
be lengthy. And if homosexuals on campus wish to test the civility of this
campus, I would encourage them to do so. They should “come out” as and
when they desire. They should feel free to take members of the same sex to
date functions. I predict that they will be pleasantly surprised by the lack
of negative reactions from the W&L community as a whole. And at the end
of the day, let us not be slaves to the Princeton Review rankings. After all,
they’re based largely on inﬂated perceptions and are scientiﬁcally inaccu-
rate. At the end of the day, Washington and Lee, while not perfect, is a
helluva lot more tolerant than any so-called “liberal” school where people
tolerate your views as long as they’re to the left-of-center.

Rebuttal from Anderson

Mr. Naeernu]]ah’s argument is the same as mine, but I should point out that
thepostersaid“IsW&LREALLY#2?” Ithinkthattheposters weiemeantto say
thatW&Lreallywasn’t, buttlmtwe shouldooriectthatappearence, sohis state-
mentthattheposters n1eantthat“itis awell-deseivedrankingandthatneedstobe
clnnged” is erroneous. He says that “any..negativisn'L..is unacceptable,” and he
also says that there are “people at this school who do not want homosexuals to
join their fraternities or soroities,” and so on. The fact is that this IS negativism
Andwhilelmraninakesthepointthatahomosexualwhobringsasame-sexdateto
apartyorsome suchwillnotenoounteropenhostility,Istillmaintainthefactthat
the person would deﬁnitely not enjoy the same esteem in the eyes of their fellow
studentsasaheterosexualwhodidthe same. It’sjustafactoflifehereatW&L. I
certainly don’t think that W&L is blatantly homophobic (the distinction between
“fear” and “dislike” is hardly relevant in this case), I just think that it tends to be
somewhat exclusionary of certain types of people, homosexuals included

So while I agree that the posters overexaggerate the problem to a signiﬁcat
degree, andwhileIagreethatthePiincetonReviewprobablyhasusupalittletoo
high on their list, I think we should make every effort to change that We may not
be as intolerant as the anonymous signs or the wonderful folks at the Princeton
Review maymakeus outtobe,butinthe2lstCentury, appearenceisreality. Our
bestrecomseistomakedanmsmethatpeopleknowthatweAREaccepting.

  

“I’d come up with something better,
but l’ve been drunk since Wed.”
-B. Love ‘05

“Football team won the game”
-Justin Cole ‘07

“The 75-year alums”
-Brooke Sanden ‘06

PAGE 3

  

W&L tolerance

Room for Improvement
BY CALEYANDERSON, ‘06

Washington and Lee University has many strengths, but diver-
sity and tolerance of alternative lifestyles are not among them. Ac-
cording to the Princeton Review, our three highest special category
rankings are “Students Most Nostalgic for Ronald Reagan (#1),”
“Major Frat/Srat Scene (#2),” and “Alternative Lifestyles Not An
Alternative (#2)” Clearly, we’re no UC Berkeley (argue amongst
yourselves whether that’s a good thing or not). In recent days,
someone has been posting about W&L’s campus anti-homophobia
posters, which say things to the effect of “It happens to the best of
families,” “One in ten is,” or, my personal least favorite “Homopho—
bia is a curable disease.”

Now, don’t get me wrong, I agree that these posters are out of
line. First of all, they were posted anonymously. Anonymous
postings of statements charged with political significance never
sit well with me. If you feel so strongly about your opinion, why
not have the courage to come right out and say it to the student
body? Secondly, these posters come on a little too strong, the
“Homophobia is a curable disease” poster in evidence.

But, nevertheless, the posters raise a valid point- W&L is not
notable for being a highly tolerant school, of homosexuals, minori-
ties, or anyone else who’s not middle/upper class, southern white,
and quite generally in the mainstream here. This is not to say that
there aren’t individual students who aren’t accepting of differences,
I know there are many.

The whole problem here is that the campus’ general feeling is
that it’s not going to be dragged into the 21st Century without a
fight. “It’s a school for rich white southemers,” said one alumni
who commented on the Princeton Review’s site, “Only a little less
than 20 years ago, it was only a school for rich white southern
boys.”

The problem, as I assert, is not that W&L refuses to take in
homosexuals, ethnic minorities, etc. (as there are many of these
fine folks at our great school), it’s that the primary student body
generally don’t accept these people as “fitting in” to the W&L
scene.

As one Texan student on the Princeton Review commented:
“Those who fit in agree that never before have we met friendlier
people. Those who don’t fit in either transfer out or endure a long
four years.” This is not the great University that I know Washing-
ton and Lee is.

I’m generally opposed to the whole process that’s referred to
as “Swarthmorification,” (i.e., standardizing our calendar, adapting
Swarthmore/Amherst type curriculum and teaching policies, etc.),
but I do think that those 11 schools above us in U.S. News’ rankings
have something we don’t, and that’s willingness to include anyone
as a complete, non—excluded member of the student body, and as a
member of the “in-crowd.” Here, in my opinion, we still apply ex-
clusionary tactics based on things other than whether or not the
person’s a cool guy/girl, which should be the only real criteria.

Again, does W&L have a serious problem that needs immedi-
ate attention? No.

Are the posters right? No.

Is the Princeton Review accurate in their ranking? No.

Should we make some attempt to convince these people that
we’re a much more tolerant place than they make us out to be? Yes.

Otherwise, we run a definite risk of alienating outstanding po-
tential students, faculty, and staff.

So, even though the problem is an overexaggerated one, it’s
still there lurking between W&L’s white columns. Perhaps the most
telling of all these posters is the one that says “Is W&L REALLY
#2?” I think that we’re not really #2 and that Princeton has got it
wrong, but I also think we should start going out of our way to
prove it.

Rebuttal from Naeemullah

Ca]eyAnders<mwntes,‘1hewholeproblanhaeisﬂiatdecampus’general
feelingisthatit’snotgoingtobedraggedintothe21"cermnywiﬂaoirtaﬁght,”implying
ﬂiatW&Esammt‘backwmd§’smteofaﬁansistmibly20”oamny.Bmwhatexacdy
is21“centin'y,andwhymiisttheprogressionofﬁmeomrelatetosonieliberalnotionof
change?W&Lisfarﬁombeinghomophobecenttal. Ourtraditionofcivilityultimately
nanscaidswlntevernegaﬁveimidernstakeplaoe;moﬂ1erwords,wlnleW&Lis
hartﬂypeifect,itisoverwhelminglyasupp<xﬁve,mlcraminsﬁu1ﬁon.

Mostimpor1anﬂywhymiistwesubmhmﬂieranldngsofﬂ1ePdncetonReview?
Andersmoammlybasesﬂemajmityoflnsmgmnanbasedonmehighlyselecﬁve
oommentsﬂePnnoetmReviewuses.ThePdncaonReviewisabhmmlyliberaﬂy-
biasedpub1icaﬁon,andhlnsmpioblemwiﬂipmuaymgW&Lasahabedofreac-
ﬁorimypoﬁucs.Wlnleweslxnﬂdbevery;xm1dofmnhighmnkingsinthingshke
qualityofpiofessors,etc.,wenmsttaketlx:se,likethenegativeianl<ings,withaheavy
dose of skepticism. Simply because we’ve been ranked as #2 in the “Altermtive
lifestylesNmAnAltmmﬁve”camgmydoesnotnmnweshuﬂdnmabmnchmiging
thewayweare.WeshouldbepnoudofWashingtoriandLeeforwliatitis.Ceitainly,we
slniﬂdomistanﬂysuivemnmkemnsehesbatenbinncxatﬁeexperiseofwlmtwe
alieadyhavewemiistreaﬂimiourinotto,“Notunrnindfulofthefutnre,”andkeepin
nnnddntwhibprogressisirnpmtantnnmstnacomeatﬂeexpaiseofwlmtwe
alreadyhavethatispositive.

“Drunken interaction between a prof

“Erinlohnson”
-Adrienne Fleurke ‘O5 ,

and a student at the wine-tasting
-Anonymous Senior

 

 

    

PAGE 4

 

Oi3iN1ONs

:\

r \-

“L.

Skateboarding is not a crime

What does freedom mean nowadays? What with the Patriot
act negating the bill of rights, and the homeland security act
eliminating any sense of personal privacy, it is hard to say really
what freedom means. I must admit that we do enjoy many free-
doms in the country, however, it has come to my immediate at-
tention that here in the great state of Virginia, certain physical
acts are considered illegal. No, I am not referring to the utter
ludicrous laws that incriminate those whose sexual preferences
differ from the norm. I am referring to the law that criminalizes
the act of stepping onto a board supported by four wheels, and
pushing off the ground as to achieve a forward motion.

As I have been so rudely informed, this form of transporta-
tion is outlawed in every way, shape, and form. The act, termed
“Skateboarding” is to be persecuted at every given opportunity.
“What is the crime?” One may ask, “that these
peaceful board riding recreationists have com-
mitted?” The answer one gets is always the
same. The local government does not want
someone riding a skateboard to be hit by a
car. Literally, this is what it all boils down too.
Thanks Mr. Overlords! If you did not tell me what I can and
cannot do with my own free will, why, I would probably be drink-
ing Clorox Bleach with Color-Safe Alternative right now!

Granted, Skateboarding has acquired a bad reputation from
those uncouth souls who decide to destroy our national land-
marks, such as Lee Chapel for example, with their grind and ﬂip
tricks. However, I refer not to the persecution against trick
boards, which I support as well, but rather to the little known
variation of the Skateboard known as the Longboard. The
Longboard is a delightful vehicle, simple in design, consisting
of an elongated Skateboard with out the telltale upward curves
at either end, meaning it cannot be jumped off of the ground. It
was created entirely for those who enjoy cruising down the open
road with the wind in their hair and the asphalt ﬂying under their
feet.

Now, the question is again, what sort of felonious affront
are these transportation enthusiasts inflicting upon the masses
of this great state of Virginia?

I reiterate, to persecute those who ride Longboards, which

A STUDENT STATEMENT
IAN DICKINSON ‘O6

 
 

4 . physically cannot be jumped, grinded or damaging to the sur-

rounding environment, is simple oppression. We are peaceful
people. We only desire to ride from point A, to point B with a
minimal amount of exhaust, monetary expenditures, and friction.
How we infringe upon the rights of others is beyond me. Last
time I checked, rules were created so that we do not encroach
upon the rights of others. This is not even a victimless crime.
This is not a crime at all. Longboarding does not release toxic
chemicals into the air, nor does it even have the capacity to
injure those around it. If one rides a Longboard, one assumes
that there is a risk involved, as with every other physical activ-
ity known to humankind. All of this leads to another question. If
this sort of simple, environmentally conscious form of transpor-
tation is outside of the law, then why are not bikes considered

contraband? How are they, in almost any way, different from
skateboards? In fact, they have a greater propensity to de-
stroy the surrounding environment, as many naturalists
have been complaining as of late, about the increasing
amount of damage mountain biking has been inflicting upon
nature. Now I do not propose that bikes should be perse-
cuted like skateboards. In fact I am a cycling enthusiast
myself. However, I use bicycling as an example to illustrate
the pure idiocy of these laws.

What is next to be considered illegal in this oppres-
sion against physical activity? Rollerblades? Roller-skates?

Too late. The same law that limits Skateboarding and
Longboarding also restricts the rest of our skating family.
If one were to continue with the deranged logic that made
these forms of recreation illegal, then one
could easily assume all vehicular transport
will be outlawed in the near future. In fact, it
would not be beyond reasoning that the gov-
ernment will soon be issuing specialized
safety cocoons to each and every citizen to
this great state of Virginia, so that no harm may come to
anyone anymore. Everyone will live safely inside their co-
coons, drinking and eating through a straw, never having
to concern our dictators, excuse me, authorities with our
well being. Besides, we the unwashed masses are of too low
an intelligence to think clearly for ourselves, am I not cor-
rect?

The worst cut comes from those who should be fighting

for our freedom. This bastion of intellectual thought and sup-
posed freedom of physical expression, Washington and Lee,
has deemed all activities involving the word “Skate” an ille-
gal activity as well, banning it in all forms. There is no argu-
ment with them on this matter. They seem hell bent, like the
great state of Virginia, on protecting us from ourselves.
Granted, they have insurance liability concerns to worry about
because they are a private institution, but then why have
football? Or Lacrosse, or any of the many sports offered here?
Students could get hurt, and that is a liability. In fact, we as
students, just existing, are a liability. It feels like the Univer-
sity is trying to tell us something.
This reporter has almost resigned himself to the hopeless-
ness of these sad states of affairs. While on the university
level one may have a chance, no matter how slim, of changing
the incredibly oppressive conservative view of things. But to
change a state law is something that this reporter has neither
the time nor the energy to accomplish. Not everything is nega-
tive though. I have been informed a Skatepark, near the local
middle school has been built and is helping to ease some of
the pressure that us Skateboarders have to endure. However,
this does nothing to help those of us who want to enjoy the
many benefits of Longboarding. Nor is any hero poised on
the horizon, ready to ride into the fray and save us.

It’s a dark road ahead, my friends. A dark road indeed.

PHOTO COURTESY OF .rkateb0ardzr1g.rorr1

OUTLAW NOSEGRIND. Skateboarding at W&L and in most of Virginia is prohibited, infringing on our basic freedoms.

MONDAY, OCTOBER 13,2003

oward of the Week

Arr irregular feature of the .R:'2rg-mm Phi

Karl Rove

 

As a Justice Department inquiry continues its work, it
looks more and more as though Mr. Rove was the individual
behind the leak of a CIA operative’s identity and location in
the field. It occured, many believe, because Joe Wilson, the
husband of the named CIA agent, openly criticized the White
House for its inclusion of Iraqi uranium ties to Africa when
Mr. Wilson had said that he had personally disproved such
claims. The White House’s retaliation, it’s starting to seem,
was to compromise his wife’s security in the field, a federal
crime that carries a sentence of 10 years in prison. We’ll soon
see if Mr. Rove can in fact own up to putting a brave CIA
agent’s life at serious risk just to take a jab back at a political
opponent. Don’t bet on it, though. When outraged legal experts
called for an independent investigator to look into the matter, Mr.
Rove whined until the President agreed to allow the Justice Depart-
ment (a part of the executive branch, along with Mr. Rove’s position)
to do the investigation instead, which may produce a biased result.

The lesson learned, future leaders of America? If you don’t like
what someone says about you, expose critical information about
their spouse in the hopes that enemy foreign governments will kill
him/her and leave your would-be critic bereaved and depressed. It
works for Karl Rove and it can work for you too!

Diversity is
strength at W&L

Reoently,Iengagedinavery interesting oonversa1ionwithaFreshman,
whosename shal1remainanonymous,andwetaIkedaboutW&Larrdher
transition. And we touched on a very ‘sensitive and prevalent issue that

plagues W&L students: diversity. That topic always comes up at W&L.

There’s no way of getting around it Once you arrive at W&L, you are
mmrdmedwimdiversityemrmﬁmmrdawmnagedmbeawqadngmrdmm
passionate towards people of different backgrounds. I am a dorm ootmselor.
I went through orientation with my residents so I know.

I came to several conclusions about the situation about the issue. As
good as the theory appears on paper, diversity education has created
some unforeseen externalities that we need to address and analyze. The
diversity discussion has put people from the majority and the minority
sides on their highest guard.
Members of the majority are
afraid to say cer- tain things orbe-
have in certain ways because
they fear these words and ac-
tions might offend a member of the
minority group. However, I have to say that their fears are not com-
pletely unfounded. Here I have seen minorities, including myself, peak
in sensitivity levels to “ignorant” comments. Immediately, the member
of the majority walks away for the rest of their lives with their tails tucked
between their legs, forever forbidden to express anything to a person of
the minority group for fear it might offend someone.

Arrdherein lies theproblem Neithersidehastriedtodiscussthe“oﬂ°err-
sive” material. The minority member doesn’t ask why but merely becomes
angry while the majority rrrernber doesn’t offer an explanation or becomes
immediatelydefensive. Thereisadenialonboth sides. Asaresultbothsides
come away fromthe interaction angry and with anew negative stereotype of
the other side.

Living is learning and learning is living. You live by learning from your
mistakesandthemorelessonsyoulearrr,themor"eyouliveasperson. The
biggest component of our lives is our interaction and relationships with people.
Andthesarnerulesthatwewouldabidebyinourfriendships shouldalsobe
present in our day-to-day interactions with people. So I am listing sonre
guidelines to have to better interactions with people here and everywhere.

Assumealitﬂebutneverassurrrethatyourassurrrptionistruth. Itismere
speculation.

Lower your sensitivity antennas. If someone’s expressive manner of-
fends you, letthemthey didandfrndoutifthey were awarethatthis offended
you.

Try to give people the beneﬁt ofthe doubt. Understand that we are all
fromdifferentplacm withdiﬁerentpaststhatmoldus intothepeopleweare
not with the views that we have.

Andlastly, beopen—minded Lifeisabearrtifulthingandwhatmakes
humanlifesoextraordinaryistheabilityforittobemriched Theworldisatan
arm’sreach Soopenyourarms,ratherthancrossingthenr

TRAIN OF THOUGHT
TRAN KIM ‘05

 
 

 
 
   

  

S‘l‘$1'RAVEl..COM

khamar-his #I3lvded!wt0p-amine

Have a story idea? Email at phi @wlu. edu or call extension 4060

  
   
  

Sell ‘hi 5. Earn Cash, Go Free!
Row mug t3n-(amps:-.s Raps

(all for group discounts

     
   

 .§£kWC£8
I-800«§48~¢859 2' wwmhwchnm

9-333'

 
   

 

HOUSE FOR RENT
in Rockbridge Baths on Maury River
2 bedroom, 2 bath
, central air, ﬁreplace

$850 + security deposit and references
call evenings 703-503-8239

 

#1 Spring Break Vacations!
Cancun, Jamaica, Acapulco, Bahamas,

Mazatlan, Florida, SPadre. 110% Best Prices!

Book Now & Get Free Parties & Meals!
Group Discounts, Now Hiring Campus
Reps! 1-800-234-7007
endlesssummertours.com

I

 

  

ALUSONPERRY
SPOKISEDIIOR

Mm m
MONDAY, OCTOBER 13, 2003

are RlE\‘=<.%«’.i."E,iit£ Pei

PORTS

PAGE 5

Football comes home, wins in overtime

BY CAMERON GARNER
SPORTS WRITER

Despite going into halftime with a 20-7 deﬁcit,
the Generals fought back and came away with their

p second win of the season against a huge Catholic

team.

The game looked a bit out of hand as Catholic went
up 27-7 in the third quarter, but sophomore quarterback
Greg Tweardy led the Generals down the ﬁeld and hooked
up with Taylor “Carri, you look terrible” Callaham.

Cardinal quarterback Pat Truxillo was very angry,
because every time he threw it to one of his teammates,
one of the Generals ended up catching it instead.

Generals like senior strong safety Lee “Mr.
Walker” Walker and freshman cornerback Rob
Rain, who returned the interception to the
Catholic 6-yard line, where his good buddy and
sophomore running back Michael Lackett ran
the ball into the end zone putting the Generals
up 28-27.

The Cardinals, angry because the Generals
had scored so many points in a row, tried to come
out and score again, but the General’s defense,
led by Andrew “foot” Bahl’s sack, forced the Car-
dinals to go four-and-out on their own 11-yard
line.

From the Cardinal 1 1-yard line, freshman kicker
Ben Long wanted to get in on the action, so the Gen-

  

CORBIN BmcKFoRD/ Tbe Ring-tum Pbi
SAVE. A Washington and Lee goalkeeper keeps a

erals put him in to kick the 28-yard ﬁeld goal, and it
was good.

From there, the Generals defense held
thanks to strong team defense and the atten-
tive line work by Warren “wait, why are you
putting me in there?” Hunter. The Cardinals
couldn’t do anything else, and watched the
clock run out.

I think that a victory of such magnitude re-
quires an editorial comment or two. The
General’s play on Saturday is reminiscent of
another such colossal come from behind vic-
tory.

The Colts over Bucs last Monday night?
No, I’m talking about the Giants over the Cow-
boys, but by Giants, I mean the little Giants.
No doubt many of you remember this good
versus evil struggle that featured an under-
dog squad playing a much larger Cowboys
team. -

This movie obviously inspired the Gener-
als team to win, teaching them that even
though the opponents may be bigger and your
best player isn’t playing because he’s
cheerleading to try to get the hot, stud quar-
terback (wait, is this queer eye?), if you dig
deep, fight hard, and possibly have a nerd to
draw up plays with his computer, you can over-
come any obstacle.

g Pi
VICTORY. Sophomore running back Michael Lackett scored the winning touchdown in overtime on Saturday.

BY Jorm HYI.AND
ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITOR

The Washington and Lee men’s soccer
team lost its first game of the season Saturday
to conference rival Roanoke. The Generals had
started the season on an eight game unbeaten
streak, coming within two games of the record
breaking 2001 squad which started its season
on a ten game unbeaten streak.

Before Saturday’s loss, the Generals were
able to extend their streak on Wednesday when
they faced off against ODAC foe Lynchburg
on the road.

The Hornets entered the game with a record
of 4-7 , 1-3 ODAC. Despite theirpoorrecord, they

' contested the Generals very tightly.

Washington and Lee sophomore goal-
keeper Michael Stanton made six big saves in
the first half to preserve a scoreless tie entering
halftime. The Generals finally broke the tie late
in the second half at 79: 12 when junior defender
Peter Miller found sophomore midﬁelder Keith
Sullivan for a header.

Washington and Lee held on to the win
despite being out shot 12-9. The Generals de-
fense improved in the second half, however, as

enerals’ winning 3 reak ended this wee

make one save.

Roanoke came to Lexington with a record
of 8-2-1, 4-1 ODAC record and was the pre-
season favorite to repeat as conference champs
this year.

The Maroons opened the scoring just 13
minutes into the game but freshman midﬁelder
Rhett McCraw evened the score for the Gener-
als 15 minutes later.

At the end of the first half, however,
Roanoke forward Elliott Stallings intercepted a
failed Washington and Lee clear and buried shot
to break the tie and give the Maroons a 2-1
advantage.

It was all the scoring that Roanoke would
need. Despite a hotly contested game that saw
four player ejections, the second half stayed
scoreless.

In the loss, Stanton and Carlson combined
to make three saves, but the Generals were out
shot 13-9.

The loss drops Washington and Lee’s
record to 6-1-2 overall and 2-1-2 in the ODAC.
The victory puts the Maroons in first place in
the ODAC.

The Generals hope to get back to their win-

ning ways on Tuesday in a non-conference SNEAKY. Sophomore midﬁelder Keith Sullivan ﬁghts an

Roanoke Play“ from Scoring in this Wt‘-€155 gamﬁ junior goalkeeper Chris Carlson only had to match-up against cross-town-rival VMI. opponent for the ball in this week’s game against Roanoke.

‘ A sweet victory kept the Generals women’s soccer undefeated

Maggie Megear, and junior Ginny Helms.

    

‘ BY S BLOOM Senior Fontain Marcoux, freshman Cara Burton,
SPORTS WRITER Cohn, Esworthy, and S. Helms also added an assist.
“Our team works well together and everyone is al-
A victory over Sweet Briar (10-0) was especially ways enthusiastic about playing.” said Wiltshire of her

\4 sugar-coated for the Washington and Lee women’s team. “In practices, everyone is always pushing each
soccer team. The team not only protected its unde- other and I thinkthat our intensity in games reﬂects
feated season, but was able to celebrate Coach Neil how hard we work in practices.”

Cunningham’s 100th career victory. The team, ranked 14th nationally by the National
“It was a well-deserved victory for coach.” said Soccer Coaches Association of America, has high aspi-
, “ freshman Sarah Helms. “Coach doesn’t even keep rations for the season and is well on it’s way to attain-
track of that kind of stuff so it was such a cool sur- ing them. The team posted the highest ranking for
prise.” women’s soccer in Washington and Lee history earlier
The Generals played a stellar game, not allowing in the season at 13th place.

‘ Sweet Briar any opportunity to score. Meanwhile, The team also holds the second place position in
Washington and Lee kept the host team on its toes, the NCAA South Region. Another highlight includes
with 32 attempts and 10 goals. being only one win away from tying the record number

Freshman Anne Wiltshire again led the team with of consecutive wins. This record was established by
two goals and an assist. Washington and Lee’s 1997 team.

‘ CORBIN g mP}Ji Other goal earners included: Junior Maggie Hope The Generals will return to ODAC play will con-
RUNNn~1<;i=oin'Hi~:wn~i. Freshmen Rebecca Cohn dribbles the ball downﬁeld at Saturday (2), sophomore Conner Esworthy, S. Helms, junior tinue on Wednesday , October 16, against Virginia
afternoon’s game against Sweet Briar. Cohn scored a goal Saturday. Kelly Zagol, freshman Rebecca Cohn, freshman Wesleyan.

A

u Tuesday, October 14 Wednesday, October 15 Thursday, October 16 Friday, October 17 Saturday, October 18 Sunday, October 19
M Soccer vs. VMI--4:00 W Soccer vs. VA VB at C. Newport--5:30 W Tennis at Rolex FB atHwnpden-Sydney- F. Hockey vs. Sewanee--
E Hockey vs. EMU--7:00 Wesleyan--4:00 W Tennis at Rolex Nationals 1:00 1 :00

<. VB vs. VA Wesleyan-- Nationals WSocceratEMU--1:00 W Tennis at Rolex

6:30 E Hockey vs. Catholic--2:00 Nationals

M Soccer at VA Wesleyan--

1 2:00
VB at Marymount Toum.
C. Country atDeSaIes Inv.—
10:30

( W Tennis at Rolex Nationals

 

  

PAGE 6

FROM STAFF REPORTS

The Washington and Lee volleyball team im-
proved its record to 19-2 overall and 7-0 in the ODAC
this week. The Generals defeated Bridgewater 3-1
on Wednesday.

Washington and Lee was also successful in
the Savannah Art and Design Invitational this
weekend. The team won the tournament with vic-
tories over Roanoke, Peace College, Guilford,
Southern Virginia, and Savannah Art and Design
(SCAD).

Against Bridgewater, the Generals won after
sets of 30-26, 20-30, 31-29, 30-26. Junior outside
hitter Emily Wolﬁng led the way with 15 kills and 18
digs. Sophomore Taylor Gibson totaled ten kills
and four blocks.

Also contributing were freshman outside hitter
AshleyHurtwithninekillsandninedigsandsopho-
moresLauraByme andChristineGladyszwithnineki1ls
and eleven digs, and 51 assists and 19 digs, respectively.

Riding team places 4 out of
5 at ODAC Championships

Open Fences. Caitlin Lane won both the show’s Highest Point Rider Award
Open Fences and Open Flats and won

BY KATHERINE SHELL
sponrs WRITER

Last weekend, the Equestrian team
placed six out of nine teams at Radford.
The Generals ﬁnished only one point
behind Bridgewater and UVA, who were
tied for fourth.

All three of Washington and Lee’s
riders placed in the top three in their
classes. Katie Goodrich ’06 placed sec-
ond and Jean-Rose Clawater ‘07 placed
third.

Caitlin Lane ’06 won both her Open
Flat and Open Fences classes, which
won her the show’s Highest Point rider
Award.

On Friday, the Equestrian team trav-
eled to the ODAC Championships, where
two riders, Katie Goodrich ’06 and Caitlin
Lane ‘O6, rode in both Open Flat and
Open Fence classes.

Katie Goodrich placed second in



Volleyball wins SCAD Invitational 

On Friday and Saturday, the team com-
peted in the SCAD Invitational, winning all
five games. The Generals defeated Roanoke
30-24, 30-24, 30-24 and Peace 30-7, 30-21, 30-
20 on Friday.

Against Roanoke, Wolfing notched 16
kills and 17 digs. Sophomore middle blocker
Susan Gaillard had 12 kills and two blocks.
Gibson totaled eight kills and five blocks,
while Gladysz contributed 48 assists and 12
digs.

In the match against Peace, freshman
middle blocker Ashley Hurt led with eleven
kills and seven digs. Junior outside hitter
Michelle Chastain helped the team with ten
kills and nine digs. Gladysz totaled 15 assists
and five digs.

On Saturday, Washington and Lee de-
feated Guilford 30-13, 30-21, 30-17. Hurt led
the way with eleven kills. Gaillard had ten kills
and four blocks. Wolfing and Gladysz totaled

 

HORSE. Rider Caitlin Lane converses with Washington and Lee coach Carolyn
Williams. Lane won both the Open Fenc and Open Flat classes at ODAC’s.

for the second show in a row.

nine kills and ten digs, and 41 assists, respec-
tively.

The Generals came out on top against
Southern Virginia with a 30-23, 30-20, 30-20 vic-
tory. Hurt led the team with 14 kills and 14
digs. Gaillard notched 15 kills, while Wolfing
had ten kills and 17 digs. Gladysz and junior
Jennifer Lux made 42 assists and 13 digs, re-
spectively.

The team met up with SCAD for the final
match of the day, defeating the opponent 30-23,
30-19, 30-21. Wolﬁng led Generals with 12 kills
and 15 digs. Gaillard totaled 13 kills and ﬁve
blocks. Hurt added eleven kills and 12 digs.
Gladysz also contributed with 41 assists, ten digs,
and four blocks.

Wolfing, Gladysz, and Hurt were honored
by being named to the all-tournament team.

Washington and Lee will compete against
Virginia Wesleyan at home this Wednesday at
5:30 p.m. for a conference match-up.

FROM STAFF REPORTS

MONDAY, OCTOBER 13, 2003

KILL. junior Emily Wolfing led the Generals this
week. She totaled 62 kills and 77 digs overall.

Women’s tennis comes
out strong in Fall Festival

Sophomore Ingrid Easton won her
match in the number four spot over

 

The Washington and Lee
women’s tennis team hosted Mary
Washington, Washington College,
Liberty, and Bridgewater in the
Washington and Lee Fall Festival
on Saturday and Sunday this week-
end.

The Generals sent eight
singles players and eight doubles
pairs into the final round on Sun-
day.

The team produced four
singles champions in addition to
two teams of doubles champions
on Sunday.

In the number two singles spot,
senior Liz Law defeated freshman
Amanda Haines 6-3, 6-3.

Junior Kristin Crawford had a
6-4, 6-0 victory over senior Emily
Taylor in the number five slot.

Katie Zelenak of Mary Washington 6-
4, 6-3.

Sophomore Stephanie Hannon
also had a victory in the number six
spot with a 6-2, 6-3 win over freshman
Abigail Olson.

In doubles action, freshman
Natalie Day and junior Susan
McCracken had a 8-2 victory in the
number two spot over Easton and jun-
ior Meredith Bailey.

Sophomores Laura Neller and
Lauren Peters defeated Crawford
and Hannon 8-4 in the number three
spot.

The Generals travel to Corpus
Christi, Texas next Thursday to com-
pete in the ITA National Tournament.
The tournament is scheduled to last
all day for Thursday, Friday, Saturday,
and Sunday.

Generals drop two at home against Bridgewater and Juanita

BY JOHN HYLANI)
ASSISTANT sponrs EDITOR

the net. For the game, they out
shot the Eagles 12-5 and held a
15-3 advantage on penalty cor-

Lee sophomore goaltender Elise
Gelinas made two saves.
The Generals turned

trolled the second half, with an
advantage in shots, 8-3, and on
penalty corners, 7-4. But the

Washington and Lee’s record
to 4-6 overall, and 3-2 in the
ODAC. The Generals return

to their ODAC schedule when
they host Eastern Mennonite
on Tuesday night.

The Washington and Lee
ﬁeld hockey team had a rough
homecoming weekend, drop-
ping two games on its home
turf.

The Generals faced off
against Bridgewater on Friday
night in an ODAC contest. De-
spite dominating the action for
most of the first half, they were
unable to score. The Eagles did
convert, however, on their lone
offensive opportunity of the ﬁrst
half and took a 1-0 lead into half-
time.

The Generals continued to
control the action in the sec-
ond half but struggled to ﬁnd

ners.

Bridgewater again capital-
ized on one of its few scoring
opportunities midway through
the second half to take a 2-0
lead.

The Generals did not get on
the scoreboard until there was
just under 10 minutes left in the
game when junior midﬁelder Kitt
Murphy found sophomore
midﬁelder Jane Beall to cut the
lead to 2-1.

Bridgewater was able to pre-
serve its lead for the win and im-
prove its record to 5-4 overall,
and 2-4 in the ODAC.

In the loss, Washington and

around to face Juanita on Satur-
day afternoon in a non-confer-
ence game.

The Generals were unable
to get off a shot in the first half.
They kept the Eagles off the
scoreboard too, however, and
the teams entered halftime in a
scoreless tie.

Juanita finally opened the
scoring twelve minutes into the
second half, but the Generals
evened the score shortly there-
after when sophomore link S.B.
Northen found senior forward
Kelly Taffe to even the score at
1. ’

Washington and Lee con-

Generals were unable to get an-
other tally on the scoreboard
and the teams entered overtime
in a 1-1 tie.

The teams battled through
two overtime periods. Generals’
sophomore goaltender
Courtney Harrison made four of
her six saves in the overtime
periods. Gelinas made two saves
in the ﬁrst half.

After battling for 100 min-
utes, the Generals ﬁnally suc-
cumbed in penalty strokes, as
they were outscored 3-1. The 2-
1 victory improved Juanita’s
record to 9-5.

The two losses dropped

32:: mt: *z‘ea2~§ V

Sex: Splash ‘fears
3.8§9.a3.§.*§*"?2%
arrrrr.e.saz2sgias2tta23.rs.aoar

 

 

October is Domestic Violence
and Sexual Assault Awareness
Month

If you or someone you know is a victim
of domestic or sexual violence, please
call Project Horizon’-.5 24 hour hotline,
463-2594, for support and infomation.

FROM STAFF REPORTS

Mennonite.

The Washington and Lee men’s and
women’s cross country teams competed in
the Virginia State Division II-HI meet this
Saturday. The meet was held at Eastern

The men ﬁnished third of eight teams
in an 8k race. Junior Steve Chambers led
the way for the Generals with a time of 27:58.
He finished fourth overall. Senior Andy
Schorr ﬁnished fifth overall with a time of
28: 15. Senior Rusty Meyer placed eighth

 

GREAT D. The Field Hockey team made a great showing this week.

Cross country runs fast

overall at 28:35.

The women competed in a 6k race
and finished third of nine teams. Sopho-
more Betsy Frayer led the women with a
third place overall time of 25:27. Fresh-
men Tippins Stone and Jenny Ratzel fm-
ished with a tenth place time of 26:01 and
an eleventh place time of 26:08, respec-
tively.

Both the men’s and women’s teams
travel to Allentown, Pennsylvania on Sat-
urday to compete in the DeSales Invita-
tional.

 

 
 

as aw...



  .i1L¥1%".|'

 ‘ft;a~rtr.ais-tag‘ orgzvtiaris awéaéiﬁie... at-':¢ ': '  '   »
‘ﬁling   saith the 

  
 
 

 

 

 tie  net    
  

Golf Etiquette tip of the week:
A group playing a whole round is permitted to
pass a group playing a shorter round.

eeeeeee

l’li.Jll‘€S

Grow. tmssrerze. Rascal
Pztarssiarexanaes Mamas

309 N. Main St. ~ Le>ci.ngton, VA 24450

 
    

54£?~46¥~3447

 

  
 

MEGANMORGAN

AK1S&LlFEEDIIOR
FMAr;MoRGAArlrB@wiUri1J
MONDAY, OCTOBER 13, 2003

 

is LIFE

Homecoming bands receive mixed reviews

verse, but they set the stage well
for the atmosphere of the concert.
KDTU played excellent back-
ground music, and a fairly large
crowd of people stayed up until
the end of the show. As people
were leaving to go to parties and

PAGE 7

BY KATHERINE SHELL toured this summer with the
it Alhnan Brothers and will begin

STAFF WRITER their fall tour in a couple of weeks
in Colorado. Information about
the band can be found in their
website: www.karldenson.com.
The show started at 9 but

Karl Denson’s Tiny Uni-
verse with opening act The Or-
dinary Way kicked off homecom-
ing this weekend at the Pavilion

Friday night. Both bands re- didn’t pickup until 10:30 or 11:00. other activities, other people were
ceived mixed reviews. While there was a dance party showing up to enjoy the end of
The Ordinary Way debuted just in front of the stage, there the show.

* in 1999 with their ﬁrst album, Ris-
ing. Based in Northern Virginia,
they have been traveling all over
the country since then, gaining
new fans every place they visit.

Overall, KDTU had a great at-
mosphere and was enjoyed by
many of the students. Other stu-
dents felt the need for a more lively,
interactive band, but everyone en-

was also a crowd of people stand-
ing in the back, just talking, and
not paying attention to the band.
The Ordinary Way, an interest-
ing mixture of jazz, reggae, and

  

 

Friday night was the first time blues, played slightly longer, joyed having KDTC and The Or-

they have opened for Karl slightly harder—to-dance-to songs dinary Way travel to Lexington to p_

Denson’s Tiny Universe. KDTU than Karl Denson’s Tiny Uni- kick off Homecoming Weekend! .
Corbin Blackford / The Ring-tum Phi

    

...aooovW"""‘“'“
Corbin Blackford / The Ring-tum Phi

Charlottesville offers dining delights

I think that at some point
we all start to feel as if the
walls of Lexington are closing
in on us and we just want to
escape this town, even for an
evening, if only to convince
ourselves that there is life
beyond this campus.

To make things even
worse, the restau-

rant culture stag— 

  

mind as both local favorites
and guaranteed great meals.
But last weekend I happened
upon an eatery I hadn’t no-
ticed before, and it has now
become my latest favorite.
Located on a corner of
“the Corner,” the appropri-
ately named hot spot right
across
f r o m

CAROLYN DUFFY ,

nates fairly ’ h e
quickly around HOMECOMING QUEEN U V a
here, and the ——————— ~"=—— campus
thought of more on Uni-

pizza, more subs, more Chi-
nese or Mexican food seems
almost unbearable. Well, per-
fect! It sounds like a road trip
is in order. A great meal, a
change of pace, a drive full of
breathtaking mountain views
and fall foliage...that’s more
than enough reason to ven-
ture out of town——how about
Charlottesville?

Recently, a national poll
named Charlottesville the
most energetic city in
America. And I think they
have the restaurants to match
that title. Exotic and exciting,
romantic and refined, lively
and colorful—The Mellow
Mushroom, Northern Expo-
sure, and the Ivy Inn come to

versity Ave, Michael’s Bistro
and Taphouse boasts a pub-
like atmosphere full of youth-
ful energy, a unique and ﬁnely
tuned beer and wine list, and
a surprisingly sophisticated
menu of both the exotic and
the familiar.

After climbing a steep
narrow staircase, patrons sud-
denly ﬁnd themselves in a spa-
cious, sprawling second-story
space where diners sit com-
fortably in multi-tiered sec-
tions of dark wooden booths.
The lucky dozen who have
managed to snag the balcony
tables overlooking the busy
street below have the privilege
of enjoying the cool night air
along with their cold beer.

When the server brings
you the menu, I am positive
you’ll have as difficult a deci-
sion on your hands as I did. I
wanted to order everything on
the menu, and to make it even
more impossible to decide they
also offer daily specials. I
settled on the Thai Chicken

Curry with dried apricots.

MOkay wait———I know that
sounds a little scary for those
of you who only eat as ethnic
as Hunan’s. But somehow
Michael’s throws in a bit of
East Asian inspiration and
French ﬂair without detracting
from the whole tavern/pub/
beer theme. It just works, and
after eating here even the big-
gest skeptics will have to ad-
mit that exotic ﬂavorings like
saffron and soy sauce and co-
conut milk can perk up the ﬁn-
est ﬂank steak and add texture
to the most tantalizing trout.
My chicken, served in a bowl
over basmati rice with gener-
ous slices of homemade
ﬂatbread to soak up the rich,
fruity, fragrant sauce, was out
of this world, no other way to
describe it.

The menu is diverse, and
the dishes combine complex
ﬂavors to create artistic and el-

egant dishes like chicken
and duck potpie served
with a thick, hearty stew
and topped with browned
mashed potatoes. Equally
tempting was the Icelandic
Arctic Char‘ (that’s fish)
wrapped in a potato crepe
and served with crispy pro-
sciutto and asparagus.
How amazing does that
sound? I would be willing
to bet you won’t find food
like that in Lexington—and
certainly not for $10, which
is the average price for en-
trees. An exceptional deal
to say the least.

One more reason to try
Michael’s: you can order a
beer sampler and try four
small glasses of the most
interesting—sounding beers
on the menu. With at least
twelve beers on tap, over 40
bottles, and a selection that
focuses on American
microbreweries like Rogue
and Pyramid, you have a
wide variety to choose
from.

I am convinced that a
great meal is worth the
trip—Michael’s Bistro and
Taphouse was definitely
worth mine.

The Ring

-tum Phi

wishes the

Washington and Lee community

a safe and happy
Reading Days

  

Corbin Blackford / The Ring-tum Phi

ABOVE, under one of the big
tents located at the Law School
field, alumni, young and old
alike, enjoyed the scrumptous
buffet line provided by dining
services.

FAR LEFT, students like Josh
Comthwaite and Mandi Kimble
ate various food types ranging
from hors d‘oeuvres to crispy
cookies while chatting with fel-
low students and graduates.

LEFT, the band The Ordinary Way
played music in hopes of inspir-
ing dancers, unfortunately few
took the cue.

W&L offers variety of ﬁlms

BY MEGAN MORGAN
ARTS AND LIFE EDITOR

Like movies but tired of go-
ing to the small Lexington the-
atre or driving to Roanoke to see
one? Students have another
option at their disposal. This Oc-
tober, several ﬁlms will be pre-
sented by various organizations
on the Washington and Lee cam-
pus.

The John W. Elrod’s Com-
mons Theatre will host several
ﬁlms this month. These include
“Seabiscut” and “2 Fast 2 Furi-
ous. “Seabiscut, which stars
Tobey Maguire and Jeff Bridges,
tells the story of a racehorse
considered an underdog by most,
that rises to prominence during
the Great Depression. The film
will be shown at 9:30 on October
14th.

2 Fast 2 Furious is the story
of a former cop, played by Paul
Walker, who along with an ex—con
friend helps to transport money
for a Miami crime lord while se-
cretly working for an undercover
agent to bring the the crime lord
down. This ﬁlm will be presented
at 7:30 p.m. on October 17th and
18th. Both this film and
Seabiscut are being sponsored
by the university.

The Washington and Lee
Film Society will also be present-
ing several films in the Commons
Theatre. These include “Bend It
Like Beckham” and “The Devil’s
Backbone”. “Bend It Like
Beckham tells the story of Jess
Bahmra, a young Indian girl
growing up in England who is a
talented soccer player but is un-
able to play because of her

fair1ily’s traditional values. The
film will show at 7:30 on October
24th and 25th.

“The Devils Backbone,
showing at 7:30 on October 31st
and November 1st, is a super-
natural drama about a remote
Spanish orphanage at the end of
the Civil War that is haunted by
the ghost of a child.

Several ﬁlms will also be
shown at the Williams School of
Commerce. On October 23rd,
“RussianArk”will appearas part
of the Fall 2003 Russian Film Se-
ries. The film, which is in Russian
with English subtitles, is told
through the eyes of an unseen
Russian director who meets the
19th century Marquis de Custine
while touring the Hermitage Mu-
seum. As the two of them stroll
through the rooms of the muse-
ums, rooms which used to be the
home to generations of
Romanovs, they meet up with
historical ﬁgures from Peter the
Great to Nicolas II. The ﬁlm will
be shown at 7 in Room 221 of the
C—School.

The Fall 2003 Politics
Filrnfest will also present a film in
Room 221 of the C—School. At 7
on October 24th, the ﬁlm “Brim
will be shown.The ﬁlm, directed
by Gillo Pontecorvo, examines co-
lonialism and revolution on
Portugese controlled Carribean
island during the 18th century.
Marlon Brando starts as an En-
glishman on a secret mission to
incite a slave revolt, seize the
sugar cane trade for England and
reenslave the revolters.

All of these ﬁlms are open to
the W&L community and are free
of charge.

7 North Jefferson Street
463-3622

University
Cleaners

WE’LL GET RID OF YOUR DIRT

Great Service
First—Rate Quality

dry cleaning,
laundry, alterations

Triple Nine Society
Founded 1978
Extraordinary camaraderie

international society of peers.
99.9th percentile:
old SAT 1450, new SAT 1520,
GRE 1460, MAT 85;
see complete list at:
www.tn‘p|enine.org

in an

Editorial Note: In last week’s Ring—tum Phi, we ran a sec-
tion called “Homecoming Nominees announced.” Three people’s
pictures were excluded. Melanie Barr, Joanna Periniiand Arriita
Wofford were not included because the Phi’s source for
headshots is The Calyx and the three women were not in the
yearbook. We are sincerely sorry for any confusion that may

have resulted.

HOUSE FOR RENT

Available June 2004
6 Tucker Street
3 Bedrooms/1 Bath
Living Room/Large Kitchen
Washer/Dryer
Recently Renovated

463-9180 evenings/weekends
458-5001 weekdays

$840/mo.

 

 

 

PAGE 8

  

“ll-{E Ri::se~i"i%;si Pa:

THE AST ORD

How, when and where to get it

The award-winning Absolut FratIord’s guide to freshman romance

College features the whole spectrum of re-
lationships. You can sometimes ﬁnd a pure, ro-
mantic relationship — the kind when the happy
couple sticks together for years and antes up
for the long haul. Of course, not all college rela-
tionships are so perfect. On the dark side, you
have those “weekend-only” relationships, lust-
motivated and practically convenient. In be-
tween, relationships take so many forms and
labels that you can never really be sure what’s
going on between two college people. Are they
hooking up? Are they dating?
Are they whipped? Who knows,
but here is the Frat Lord advice 
on college relationships:

First things first — High
school relationships belong in high school.
There is no easier way to ruin your freshman
year than to cling to the past as long as you
possibly can. The story is so common it’s al-
most cliché — high school boyfriend/girlfriend
end up in different places, desperately commit-
ting to keep it going. They talk on the phone.
They chat on the intemet. They send emails.
For the first few breaks, they bustle home as
quickly as possible, spend every waking minute
with each other, and then return to school at the
last possible moment, dejected that they have
to suffer through more intolerable separation.

Where is the fun in that? There are so many
reasons why folks desperately cling to high
school relationships. Sometimes, people like to
just stick to what they’re used to. Sometimes,
people just feel insecure without a significant
other. But when you have four (or more) years
of college ahead of you, the LAST thing you
should do is cling to high school relationships,
especially if they’re more trouble than what
they’re worth.

Don’t get me wrong — long—distance rela-
tionships have their benefits. If you can stand
only seeing your “other” every 6 weeks or so,
long—distance allows you the freedom to live

 

ABSOLUT FIEEBKD“
TIM SMrrH ‘04

your life without someone checking up on your
every move. But the minute you start sacriﬁc-
ing fun in the here—and—now for someone X hours
away, long—distance relationships lose their
point.

College is not the time to limit your options.
College is a time to have fun. And when it comes
to relationships, college is a time to be practical.

Think about it. You can try as hard as you
want to make a long—distance relationship work.
And maybe, for a year or two, you succeed. But
eventually, something could go
wrong, causing the relationship
to come to an end. You feel the
hurt, the emotional drain from los-
ing something you’ve worked so
hard to keep. And then you realize, worst of all,
that you let two or more years of your college
social life slip down the drain.

So here is the frat lord recommendation for
relationships during your W&L tenure — HOOK
UP!

College relationships work backwards. Hook
up first. Hook up again. Hook up a third time —
Call it a relationship. This is how things go. It’s
not necessarily a horrible thing, it just takes some
getting used to.

Some people can’t bring themselves to
consider the hook-up. Some purists think that
relationships are only worthwhile if they pro-
vide long—term meaningful benefit. Their in-
tentions are good, but their expectations are
misplaced. Hook-ups are part of the college
experience.

Even if you don’t choose to hook-up (you
don’t have to), just remember this important
guideline — Don’t put yourself into any relation-
ship situation that limits your opportunity for
fun. Go on some dates. If you get that feeling
that things just aren’t what you’re looking for,
DON’T PROLONG. Get the hell outta dodge.
Why stay in a situation that’s not going to pan
out? Why waste the time?

MEGANMORGAN
AKIS&LlFEEDlFOR
EwAn;M)RcArnin@wLnn1J

MONDAY, OCTOBER 13, 2003

BENNrFER’s BEST. Ame1:ica’s couple is the epitome of love for which every W&L couple should strive.

College only lasts four years. Here, nearing
the end of my tenure, this fact is becoming more
clear every day. You could spend that time liv-
ing miserably, trying to prolong relationships that
are doomed to failure. Or you could spend that
time having fun.

I’m sure there are thousands of counter-
arguments against my realism. But, like I said,

college only lasts so long. Over the next few
years, you’ll have tons of important things
to worry about, decisions to make that will
permanently shape your futures. Take my
advice —— enjoy this time while it lasts. Oth-
erwise, you may find yourself in four years
looking over your shoulder, wondering where
the time went.

What to wear...what to wear, so many choices and so little time
This week the Fashionista is back and fuming about common faux-pas at Washington and Lee University

The seasons are changing and it is time to
update our wardrobes. Here are a few tips for
picking out the perfect outﬁt sure to score you
the best date possible for the Mock Con Gala
(since he might not have taken you to homecom-
ing):

When buying clothes try them on, and if you
do shop on-line and after receiving the item ﬁnd
that it’s too big or too small, send it
back. Most on-line stores offer fre
shipping on returns, and will ex
change items for free.

If it doesn’t ﬁt, don’t buy it;
end of story. Size really does matter, but it doesn’t
matter what size. The point is to look good in
your clothes, not to squeeze your size 10 legs
into size 2 pants. You’re going to look better in
something that fits comfortably than something
that is too tight.

On that note please make sure your shirts
cover your rnidriff. There is nothing more dis-
gusting than rolls sticking out where top should
meet bottom.

With regards to designers: WHO CARES? I
can recognize a good designer as well as the next
and appreciate quality items, but trust me we can
all see the little LV’s on your Louis bag, and we
don’t need to hear you gossip about it as if it
were some freshman girl you want to early bid. I
don’t care if the pope himself hand—stitched your

 
  

 

FAsHoN1sTA’s FURY

Italian leather pumps, If they’re ugly, don ’t buy
them. Seriously! There is nothing more unattrac-
tive than listening to someone blab about their
$600 designer skirt, (emphasis on the price tag).
It just makes me think that they really do lack
fashion sense, because while God may have made
the skirt it is still ugly, and deﬁnitely not worth
$6, let alone $600.

So now that you have secured
a wardrobe in the appropriate
size and price range the ﬁnal, and
perhaps most important step is
to always consult a full-length
mirror before leaving your house. NO EXCEP-
TIONS.

Some recent cases of those who “forgot” to
look in the mirror before walking out the door:

Me — every day. Seriously, I look like crap on
all occasions, so I ﬁgure why not let thet world
know!

The girl in the white stilettos. These are two
heinously offensive topics.

1) No more white shoes

2) for advice on stilettos please consult last
week's column.

XAK (but I’m sure he doesn’t care) and if he
does would someone please buy him some socks.
The blazer over the cowl neck sweater - Re-
ally, why did you do that; because while I’m sure
you think it was cute, the combination made it

THE

look like you got your fashion sense from Bozo
the clown.

The way too tight white shirt, pink skirt, and
lace-up around the ankle shoes: a) spandex is a
privilege not a right, don’t think that just because
they make it in your size you can wear it. (it’s like
those size 87 bikini’s does anyone want to see
that on spring break? No!) b) again NO MORE
WHITE SHOES, and what’s with this lace at the
ankle thing? Are we all trying to practice tying
toe shoes to audition for the New York City Bal-
let Co.?

While the previously mentioned pink skirt is
passable, though barely, the puffy, rufﬂed, wrap-
around number has to go; don’t wear it again.

And while we’re on pink, get rid of the pink
shoes too. Really, are we six?

Since pink has been such a dominant factor
so far I feel it necessary to mention that only
movie characters can have a “signature color”
and even that sounds ridiculous to me. Put some
spice in your wardrobe by mixing up the colors
and try to venture out of the pastel family every
now and again.

So far we’ve hit on clothes and shoes, but
thinking back to my freshman days makes me
remember how much importance a good face book
picture has on your life at W&L. To secure a
snapshot of superior caliber entails a perfectly
groomed coif so listen up.

You must wash your mane at least every 36
hours, that is virtually EVERY day. If you’re con-
cerned about damage from drying and styling just
let it air dry while you’re sleeping and deal with
the damage in the morning.

For those of us with curly hair who long for a
sleaker look, please make sure you straighten your
whole head (including the back). To achieve the
best look I would recommend ﬁrst drying using a
blow-dryer and a round, preferably boars hair,
brush, before a quick once—over with a straight-
ening iron if necessary.

As a ﬁnal point if you choose to enhance
your natural hair color by highlighting remember
that these subtle accents are done to do just that
— highlight your natural color — not to take you
from ebony to blonde, and some of us must real-
ize that we can’t be blondes. For expert advice
on the best way to enhance the natural beauty of
your own hair consult your hairdresser. Addi-
tionally before putting any color in your hair re-
member that dye jobs are high—maintenance.
Roots must be kept up; seriously, you don’t want
to look like a zebra.

These are just a few thoughts on what ought
not be done and how to make the most of what
you’re given. Take my advice and just take a
careful look at yourself before leaving and you’ll
probably be OK; otherwise you’ll hear about it
next week.

“is

(I) The Women’s Swim Team would like
the Men’s Swim Team to stop urinating
in the pool.

 

Q Stop making fun of Lilly Pulitzer. She
has excellent Fall and Winter collections
in addition to her now out-of-season
Spring, Summer and resort wear.

Q The light in the old Sig—Ep House
should really be turned off.

Q I’m glad the infirmary takes such
great care of its patients and listens to
me when I tell them that I have a serious
problem. They really do a great job!

Q Forget Prof. So-and-so: Dick Grefe is the
hardest grader at this school.

Q Freshmen should not vomit in the uri-
nals.

Q Jeb Brooks is quite possibly the most
eligible bachelor on campus.

(I) Don’t do drugs kids, because if you do,
in the words of Coach Joe Lyles, “You lose!”

(I) I think that if you swallow gasoline,
you’re generally okay, unless you burp,
which many people think is rude.

Q What was with that opinions piece on
video games last week? Can you say super-
nerd?

(I) University Cleaners is the absolute best!

Q I demand shuffleboard courts some-
where on campus, possibly in the Commons.

(1) Tom Burish for provost! _

Q Fraternity houses would also like some
tri—ply toilet paper.

Q RACAS is coming: http://stufs.wlu.edu/
~mendralaa/racas/newpage.html. '

(1) Health tip: Lack of water is the number
one trigger of daytime fatigue.

Q What freshmen would be dumb enough
to accept a bid in October from Sigma Phi
Oops-we’re-gone or whatever their name is
now?

(I) Father Alan Lipscomb, pastor of St.
Patrick’s, has the best red-headed afro this
side of the Atlantic!

(1) Graham—Lees 2nd ﬂoor Commons side
would like Helen Hughes personally to bring
tri—ply toilet paper to the hall.

(I) Hooking up in freshmen dorms loses its
luster once you’re a junior.

(I) The Lexington post office is unreliable,
however, campus mail services can be
trusted.

Q Tuesdays are underrated.

Q Mini-skateboards, as seen in Wal-mart,
are fun for about ten minutes.

(I) Breadsticks are the best tasting and most
economical snack on the new Co-op’s menu.

(I) The Emporium” will never be able to
live down the name Co—op nor “The Mar-

ketplace” the name “D-Hall.”

(I) How many meanings are behind the title
“Five Star General?”

(1) If dogs are “man’s best friend,” then
are cats “man’s mortal enemy?”

(1) Why are there so many cats lurking
around campus?

(1) Shout out to Le Chat!
Q What ever happened to Bob Villa?

Q Sen. Robert Byrd (D- W. Va.) is the only
former Klansman in Congress.

(1) Three cheers to Dean Watkins for let-
ting two sad and stranded students shower

in the Lee-Jackson House on Wednesday.

(1) Turtles are great reptiles.

(I) E—mail your anonymous Quick Hits to
phi@wlu.edu.

 

/-itch
€375,755
9355::
v- I-.06
.wf,,.[l

C-$

   

SHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

~RViANG-TUM

.C;Zl I \
VOLUME
MONDAY, OCIOBER 27, 2003

PHI

I The Iindeni voice of Washington and Lee University since 789] _
Rector: fate of Spring Term may be decided In February

Even though, ‘Both calendars can work successfully’ the decision will be a purely ﬁnancial because that is the Board’s ‘major obligation’ to the school.

BY KYLE WAss AND KATHERINE SHELL
ASSISTANT EDITOR AND STAFF WRITER

The Board of Trustees may decide the fate of Spring Term as
early as February. At this weekend’s board meeting, Spring Term
was among the topics discussed.

After seven years on the Board of Trustees at Washington and
Lee, newly elected and newly swom-in rector Philip W. Norwood of
Charlotte, North Carolina, has been heavily involved in the oversight
of many of the University’s major decisions, speciﬁcally construction
and renovation projects, as Chairman of the Capital Projects Commit-
tee.

Now, Norwood will help guide the board through the decision-
making process of the calendar controversy. This weekend, the Board
of Trustees discussed the two calendar proposals at their October 24
and 25 meeting.

While there was no plan to come to a resolution between the 12-
12-6 and 14-14 calendars at the Board of Trustees meeting this past
weekend, there was a two-hour private meeting held on Saturday
morning to primarily the financial implications of each calendar, al-
though N orwood assures that one of the main goals of all the Board’s
actions is continue “defming our [Washington and Lee’s] place in
American education.” The delay in the faculty vote by two and a
half weeks also delays the decision of the Board, though Norwood
acknowledges that there is “no reason to continue to prolong the
decision.”

The faculty vote results of October 13 showing an 80-79 favor of
the current calendar model and the Executive Comrnittee’s full sup-
port of the 12-12-6 calendar may inﬂuence the Board’s ﬁnal decision
on the calendar. Norwood said that he was not expecting the recent
faculty vote regarding the different calendars to be so close, and in
light of the results, the decision will be a hard one for the board to
make, especially since the board is fairly evenly split between mem-
bers who attended school at W&L under the 12-12-6 calendar, and
members who attended school here under the 14-14 calendar. Re-

garding this split, Norwood says that we know “both calendars can
work successfully.”

The two reports on the calendar proposals were presented to
the faculty on October 13, both of which “were intended to inform

, the community about the implications of the various calendars,

rather than advocate for a particular model,” according to Interim
Dean of the College Jeanine Stewart. The 12-12-6 proposal re-
viewed possibilities for improving the current calendar, while the
14-14 proposal discussed the advantages and disadvantages of
the 14-14 calendar. The proposals hadito take into consideration
the ﬁnancial burdens of both calendars, the unique characteris-
tics of Spring Term, and the abilities of each calendar to suit stu-
dent needs.

_ Since the board does not “approach [the calendar issue] with
the same emotional attachment” that the students do, the main
factor in the Board’s decision between calendars_ will be the finan-
cial burden of either choice, since ﬁnance is their “major obliga-
tion” to the school, according to Norwood. Provost Williams said
“the administration is presently preparing the best ﬁnancial pro-
jections we can make at the present time.”

Furthermore, Norwood said that the Board has “a commit-
ment to reducing the teaching load,” in order to compete with
our peer colleges and universities. Thus, the number of courses
each professor is required to teach will play a large role in the
decision. Norwood argues that, while the Board of Trustees
makes the decision, the fate of the calendar is really “in the hands
of the faculty.”

If a new calendar model is implemented, any changes will
probably take at least three years to be enacted and, “most likely,
no currently enrolled student will see any calendar changes,”
Dean Stewart said. Changes could be expected to take place by
the senior year of the class of 2008, next year’s incoming class.

The Board of Trustees will meet again in February 2004 and,
with “sufficient data,” they will be able to be more prepared to
decide on the fate of the calendar, said N orwood. Norwood noted
that the Board is “committed to resolving [this issue] early.”

Dedication. Rector Philip W Norwood delivers his speech at Friday’s
dedication of the Elrod Commons. Norwood will be helping to guide the
Trustees through the ‘decision-making process regarding the Spring Term.

SAB works to bring
entertainment options

CATHERINE SWAN
SENIOR STAFF WRITER

In addition to the typical fraternity
band party, there is a different type of
stud 1 organization that works to bring
musical acts and entertainment to cam-
pus. The Student Activities Board, or
SAB, is an organization focused solely
on bringing entertainment to the W&L
community throughout the course of the
year.

Numerous factors are involved in
choosing and getting enter-
tainment to campus. To begin
the process, members of the
board usually meet to brain-
storm possible acts.

While the SAB acknowl-
edges that student opinion is
valued, and that surveys and

A problem is
that many of us
are enormous
fans of the ‘jam

Virginia, and has also teamed up with
WLUR to help improve publicity. They
are also planning to allow more timefor
ticket sales, and are looking into op-
tions to sell alcohol at events.

“N on-mainstream bands tend to be
not well received by the students. How-
ever, I wish people would just come out
to see what the music is about before
they decide they don’t like it. We bring
in really talented artists, while they

many not be a familiar name to all, you .

are guaranteed a good time,” said SAB
publicity chair Lauren Pe-
ters.

Once a list of pos-
sible acts has been made,
the SAB then turns to their
booking agents for infor-
mation on pricing and
availability. Factors that

9
ballots have been used in the genre must be taken into account
past to gauge opinion, ﬁnal ALLAN GAIJS include when, where, and
selections are usually left to SAB MEMBER even if the act is touring,

the board. The board strives

to achieve diversity in acts

while also taking into consideration the
audience of the event.

In terms of bands, the SAB has spon-
sored two musical acts this year, Leftover
Salmon, and Karl Denson’s Tiny Uni-
verse. Although Leftover Salmon has
been a hit in the past, attendance was
down in comparison to previous years.

The Board attributed the low atten-
dance to a late venue change due to
weather. The Board considered Karl
Denson’s Tiny Universe during home-
coming weekend successful, with an es-
timated 550 people in attendance, and
over 600 tickets sold.

“I think they do a good job of bring-
ing recognized names to campus; how-
ever, I think that there could be a wider
variety of bands they bring, and that jam
bands are a little over done,” said Jared
Harrison.

Some current members of the board
feel that although they bring in good acts,
more needs to be done to promote the
diversity of entertainment.

“Everyone on the board is passion-
ate about music. However, a problem is
that many of us are enormous fans of the
“jam genre.” This does not necessarily
represent the tastes of the W&L student
body, so I hope to diversify some of the
musical acts we bring to campus,” said
SAB memberAllan Galis.

Besides working to diversify the mu-
sical acts they book, the board has other
plans for working to increase student at-
tendance and interest in events. The SAB
is working to publicize at more schools in

and how much it costs to
bring in the act.

“Often students suggest that the
SAB bring in bands that cost nearly
our entire budget or twice as much —
bands that are simply not possible.
We’ve even had requests for musicians
that aren’t even alive,” said SAB Co-
President Caroline Parker.

The SAB received $60,000 ﬁ'om the
Executive Committee during budget
hearings in October, thus making them
the most highly funded undergraduate
organization. Aside from revenue gen-
erated from ticket sales, funding for the
SAB comes solely from the EC.

The price to book an act can vary
greatly from event to event. For ex-
ample, Karl Denson’s Tiny Universe
cost approximately $18,000, excluding
production costs. The SAB contributed
over $30,000 to help bring George
Clinton to FD last spring. That marked
the first time that the SAB collaborated
with the FD committee to bring in en-
tertainment for the ball.

The basis for the EC’s support of
the SAB stems from the fact that they
contribute to many different campus ac-
tivities. The SAB not only sponsors
their own events, they also help fund
other clubs and organizations that are
looking to host entertainment events.

The SAB’s inﬂuence on campus
activities is not simply limited to musi-
cal acts. Just this year, the SAB spon-
sored The Second City comedy troupe,

as well as hypnotist Tom DeLuca.
The Executive Board of the SAB

is appointed by the EC.

UNVEILED

the ceremony.

Dedicated. “We are not just dedicating a building, but are re-dedicating the mission of this institution”,” said President Burr-ish
at the Dedication of the Elrod Commons last Friday. Dr. Mimi Elrod unveiled the porttaint of the late President Elrod during

Provost Boetsch takes position in Europe

PATRICIA BALLANTYNE
STAFF WRITER

Dr. Laurent Boetsch, former provost and acting president
of W&L, is now the chief academic ofﬁcer at the European
College of Liberal Arts (ECLA), and therefore will extend his
leave from Washington and Lee for another year.

Beginning July 1, 2004, Boetsch will assume the duties of
the dean of academic affairs for ECLA. ‘This is an opportunity
that I really wish to pursue, and I am grateful to the University
for giving me the time to do it,” said Boetsch in an email inter-
view, after stating “My heart is never far from W&L.”

“I visited there in August and was especially impressed
with the quality of instruction, its international nature and its
use of interdisciplinary teaching in focusing on the liberal arts,”
said Boetsch.

Cmrently, Boetsch is in Europe on sabbatical, primarily in
Italy and Spain. He will interact with ECLA while abroad, be-

ginning his new role on a part-time basis while on his current
sabbatical.

When asked to distinguish some difference between ECLA
and American liberal arts, Boetsch mentioned its overwhelm-
ingly international aspect. This four-year-old institution has an
incredibly diverse student body. VVrth only 80 students and 10
full time faculty, the school still represents over 20 different
nations. '

Boetsch named the youthful qualities of the school as
another attraction. “I think it has a future and I welcome the

opportunity to contribute to that future in any possible way,” _

he said.

The intense focus on liberal arts reveals another fascinat-
ing aspect of ECLA. No pre-professional sequences exist, and
its courses are taught in English. It’s mission is “to help stu-
dents develop a broad base of cultural knowledge within a
highly interactive and multicultural learning community.”

 

  

    

w J 5  .-,
i'y'.~’v."m.r«.= 1,.  .  
».,§‘ €.**,';_f:‘~3~Hﬁw*r:r

PAGEZ NOV 032003

'1t;t:R.ti's-'rr_s.‘«i';‘**.it

MONDAY, OCTOBER 27, 2003

NEWS

New renovations now planned for freshmen dorms

While much of the campus has
been getting a face—life lately, there
are only minor renovations
planned for the dorms.

“Dean Watkins has done a
good job with replacement of old
furniture,” stated
Joe Grasso, Vice
President for Ad
ministration. He 
went on to say that
they want to con-
tinue to eventually replace the fur-
niture in all of the residence halls.

One major visual difference
upperclassmen may have noticed
is the interior paint scheme of
GilliamDorm. Each ﬂoorisadiﬂ"er-
ent color with large numbers
painted beside each door. Giasso
and Watkins picked out the paint
colors personally and plan on con-
tinuing the paint theme with the
other residence halls on campus.

Gilliam Dorm also received
bathroom improvements and ﬁre
safety improvements, including

  
   

Textbooks cheaper overseas, students

P ATRICIA BALLANTYNE tion than American students must pay.

STAFF WRITER

Textbooks cost signiﬁcantly more in America
Every semester, American college

than abroad.
students pay a hefty sum for their
books that greatly exceeds the
amount students in other coun-
tries pay. This large discrepancy
may exist because textbook pub-
lishers charge higher prices for
their books in America than in Eu-
rope and Asia.

Because of this dilemma,
some college students now or-
der textbooks from overseas
through the internet. Others
have established companies or
services to provide cheaper text-
books to more students. Two
students at Wilharns College, for
example,started
Bookffentralfcom toiisell cheaper

UNIVERSITY BLUEPRINTS
CHRIS LAUDERMAN ‘O6 tim-

sprinkler system improvements,
over the summer. Baker and Davis
I both will be receiving the same im-
provements as Gilliam overtlie next
two summers. The administration
believes Graham—Lees to be in
good shape and
not in need of a
current renova-

After Baker

and Davis get

the fire safety improvements,

Woods Creek Apartments will be

next on the list. The Apartments

will be receiving the same improve-

ments as the dorms. Gaines, the

newest of the residence halls, is 12

years old and is not expected to
receive any changes.

The International House and
Fraternity Houses were completely
renovated during the Greek Re-
naissance of the late 1980s and
early 1990s. The Sorority Houses,
built in 2000, and the Casa
I-Iispanica and Outing Club House

are not scheduled for renovations
other than routine maintenance.

“The summer camps make it
hard to do renovations,” com-
mented Grasso. ‘They should deﬁ-
nitely be remodeled, tliey’re dirty.
Graham-Lees can still have char-
acter without being dirty. At the
same time, the rooms are unique,”
said Beth Iten. .

The administration ac-
knowledges that a major reno-
vation will be needed. The pre-
liminary planning stages on ma-
jor renovations or even a new
dorm are still at some unknown
point in the future.

When forming the Capital
Budget for 2004-05, the admin-
istration will be evaluating all
facilities. The Adminis-
tration would appreciate any
comments students have on the
subject of residence halls. Con-
tact Vice President of Adminis-
tration, Joe Grasso, at
jgrasso@wlu.edu.

Another more universal textbook, Molecular
Biology of the Cell by Bruce Alberts, reveals the

 

Llub LCAL, LlbCLl Dy DLULICLILB ll'l1L1l)l1‘
wide, can be found much cheaper
‘overseas. ‘ ’

same price difference, costing $110 on Amazon.com
but only £44.95 (about $76) on Amazon.co.uk.

Textbooks may be even cheaper
.n Asian countries such as
Fawain, Singapore, and Malay-
iia, ‘according to a recent New
York Times article, which also
iuoted a student explaining that
mly a small phrase indicating
‘international edition” distin-
guishes books bought overseas
:han those purchased in
America.
The October 21 New York Times
irticle, “Students find $100 Text-
)ooks Cost $50, Purchased Over-
teas,” highlights the vast cost dif-
ferences in textbooks, while also

, exposing a growing tension be-
. tweencollege bookstores and text-

textbooks from‘ abroad to’ students.
Ever1‘Amazon.com offers cheaper textbooks
through its British website. Mass Communication
Law: Cases and Comment by Donald M. Gillmor,
et al, costs $113.95 as a new book on Amazon.com,
while it costs only £45, about $76, on
Amazon.co.uk. This textbook focuses on United
States Supreme Court cases, so European students
can pay less to learn about American legal tradi-

‘’ book publishers.‘

Allan Adler, the lawyer for three of the
key textbook publishers, defended their pric-
ing procedures. The Times article described
Adler as saying “that foreign textbook prices
are pegged to the per capita income and eco-
nomic conditions of the destination coun-
tries.”

Publishing companies have attempted to

Refurbished. Gilliam Dorm is the first of the freshmen dorms to have received any type of renivation.
Gilliam’s bathrooms were improved and ﬁre safety precautions were taken over the summer. Gilliam is also
the ﬁrst of the dorms to be repainted.

begin buying online

place the blame of high prices on college book-
stores. Patricia Schroeder, the president and chief
executive ofﬁcer of the Association of American
Publishers, wrote a letter to the editor in The New
York Times in which she attacked college book-
store policies.

Her letter accused college stores of marking
up textbooks above the suggested 25-30 percent
amount for retail sale.

Meanwhile, the National Association for Col-
lege Stores (NACS) continues to criticize prac-
tices of publishers. The NACS has sent letters to
principal publishing companies requesting that
they stop unfair pricing. Laura N akoneczny, the
spokeswomen for the association, said in The
New York Times article, “It represents price-
gouging of the American public generally and
college students in particular.”

The Chief Executive Ofﬁcer of the National
Association of College Stores, Brian Cartier, de-
nies the Association of American Publishers’ ac-
cusa_tions._In' fact, he wrote another letter to the
editor in the Times, stating that “the issue of over-

’ seas textbooks is not about college bookstores.”

Cartier wrote that college book stores only mark
up textbooks an average of 22 percent.

“Regardless of where students buy text-
books in the U.S., even when purchased directly
from publishers online, the prices are higher than
those found overseas,” said Cartier in his letter
to the editor.

Earlier this year, in March, the National As-

sociation of College Stores drafted a resolution
resolved for “publishers to take immediate action
to stop this practice.”

In response to such high prices, some college
bookstores, such as the University Bookstore at
Purdue University and the University of Minne-
sota Bookstores, now purchase their books from
abroad. Others, however, find return policies and
shipping too complicated to shift to this method
of business.

Washington and Lee is a member of the Na-
tional Association of College Bookstores, and
the Manager of the University Bookstore, Hel-
ena Roller, is quite angry with publishers’ tac-
tics.

“I wonder why publishing companies are jeop-
ardizing relationships with bookstores who keep
them in business,” she said. “They’re biting the
hand that feeds them.”

When asked whether she might consider pur-
chasing books abroad, she said that the difﬁcul—
ties of return policies _an_d, shipping would make
this impossible. The University Bookstore already
orders from England" for some textbooks, but ac-
cording to Roller, “we have a terrible time when we
order from England.”

W&L’s University Bookstore raises the whole-
sale price the 25 percent that publishing compa-
nies suggest and does not add shipping into the
cost. The average W&L student still pays in the
$400 range for books every semester, according to
Roller.

 

Literary Reading to be held October 30

Shenandoah: The Washington and Lee University Review and
W&L’s Department of English will be co-sponsoring a literary read-
ing on October 30 to beneﬁt the Rockbridge Area Relief Association
Food Pantry.

Washington and Lee student writers will be conducting the read-
ing, which is to take place at 7p.m. in the theater of the Commons.
This event is similar to the national “Writers Harvest Readings” held
by Share Our Strength, a national organization for ﬁghting hunger.

There is no charge for the reading, but monetary donations for
the food pantry wil be accepted at the door or may be sent to Writers
Harvest, in care of Shenandoah at Washington and Lee’s Mattingly
House, 2 Lee Ave.

UVA Press publishes new book of Virginia poetry

The University of Virginia Press recently released Common
Wealth: Contemporary Poets of Virginia, edited by Sarah Kennedy of
Mary Baldwin College and R.T. Smith, editor of Shenandoah: The
Washington and Lee University Review. Common Wealth contains
work by 53 poets either native to or currently residing in Virginia.
The ports whose work was included have all published at least one
book of poetry.

Pulitzer Prize—winner Rita Dove, Henry Taylor and Charles Wright
are all renowned poets who have work published in Common Wealth.
Washingtonand Lee University Professors Emeriti Dabney Stuart
and Heather Ross Miller, alumna Lyrae Van Clief-Stefanon and former
W&L English department members Claudia Emerson and Cathryn
Hankla are all featured.

Smith conceived the project in the late 1990s after having been
part of a similar enterprise in Alabama. “It was a huge success, and I
knew that Virginia has far more nationally recognized poets working
today than Alabama does.

‘In other literary news...

Poet Natasha Tretliewey, who is praised by former U.S.
Poet Paureate Rita Dove, will be presenting a reading as a guest of
the Glasgow Endowment on Tuesday, November 11 at 4:30 p.m. in
the Elrod University Commons. Tretheway is the author of
Domestic Work, a collection about the life of African Americans ‘in
the South, and Bellog’s Ophellia, about the loves of a mixed race
prostitute in New Orleans, and is an associate professor at Emory
University.

EC Election to fill empty senior
representative position on Tuesday

SARAH MURRAY
STAFF warren

The Executive Committee
will hold an election on October
28"‘ to select a new representa-
tive for the class of 2004.

As a result of last week’s
resignation of EC Vice President
Kevin White, then-EC secretary
Anne Johansen stepped up to
the vice president position. The
secretary slot was filled by se-
nior representative Cullen
Carter. The e1ection’s winner will
be Carter’s replacement and
serve alongside senior John
Schaufele.

EC President Helen Hughes said

she does not think the newly
elected representative will have
a difficult time ﬁtting into the
Committee at this later date, as
the first-year law and freshman
representatives also take their
positions after the beginning of
the school year.

Not everyone thinks the
method is a good one. “It does
seem a little strange,” said fresh-
man Marcus Byrd. “If the Vice
Presidency is an elected posi-
tion, then they should have an
election for that spot and keep
all the other people where they
are.”

Michael Lee, an Honor Ad-
vocate familiar with the EC, said,

“The replacement process as it
stands is fundamentally unfair -
it’s not right for an at-large of-
ficer to be automatically replaced
by a senior. I believe the EC
knows this, which is why they’re
reviewing their Constitution to
deal with it.”

The Student Body Consti-
tution dictates how the Execu-
tive Committee handles the res-
ignation of members. The 1995-
1996 document, the most recent
version available through pub-
lic record, states that in the case
of “vacancies in Student Body
offices and all positions of
honor...elective offices will be
filled by election”.

The Constitution is main-
tained and kept by student body
ofﬁcers. It has traditionally been
printed in the Student Hand-
book, but does not appear in re-
cent editions.

According to Voting Regu-
lations Board chair Joseph
Hamil, 'I\iesday’s election will
take place at a voting booth out-
side of the University Commons
from 9 o’clock to 5 o’clock.
Hamil, who chaired the VRB last
year as well, does not know of
any emergency elections such
as this in recent years.

The new representative will be
installed and begin his/her du-
ties within a week of election.

President Bush wants
alum for judicial spot

BY Enm JULIUS
NEWS EDITOR

President Bush has nomi-
nated a Washington and Lee
alumus, Walter Dekalb Kelley, to
the U.S. District Court for the
Eastern District of Virginia. The
Senate must now approve the
recommendation, which is a pro-
cess that could take several
months.

The nomination was an-
nounced on October 14 on the
White House website.

Kelley graduated cum laude
in 1977 and then went on to earn
his J .D. from Washington and Lee
law in 1981. He currently works
as a partner in Troutrnan Sand-
ers LLP in Norfolk, Virginia

If his nomination is ap-
proved, Kelley will be replacing
Judge Henry C. Morgan Jr., who
was also a W&L alumnus of both
the undergraduate and law
schools.

Virginia Senators John W.
Warner and George F. Allen, sub-
mitted suggestions of nominees
to the President.

James L. ChapmanIV,a 1982
W&L Law alumnus, was also a
name submitted to the President
for possible nomination.

Senator Warner graduated
from Washington and Lee in 1949
and has previously worked to
secure federal funding for the
Shepherd Poverty Program. His
father was also a graduate of the
University.

Board allocates

$40,000 to Traveller at meeting

BY ERIN JULIUS
NEWS EDITOR

This weekend, the Board of
Trustees allocated $40, 000 to
Traveller. Combined with the
$40,000 Traveller receives from
the Executive Committee and the
$5000 it receives from the Dean
of Students offic Traveller now
has a budget of $85,000 this year.

The money from the Board,
“puts us back at $85, 000, which
is roughly what we had last year,”
said Bailey Edwards, Chainnan of
the Traveller Committee.

Because of the reduced bud-
get this year, Traveller had to re-
duce some educational programs
and was not able to experiment
with new procedures.

Traveller also cut van ser-
vice on Sunday and Tuesday
night because it wasn’t being
used.

Vifith the increase from the
Board, Traveller plans on bring-
ing speakers to campus and pro-
viding students with other edu-
cational programs, “we’re in the
process of putting together ac-
tivities,” said Edwards, “and we
might go back up to Sunday and
Tuesday service.”

The $40,00 from the Board
has, “given us a little room to try
new things to be better and more
efﬁcient,” said Edwards.

Traveller plans to unveil
some new approaches to the sys-

tem at the end of fall term, which
may become permanent changes

 

 

1.

 

MONDAY, OCTOBER 27, 2003

Siiiiliﬁnrronu

Board of Trustees must
communicate with the rest of us

Washington and Lee is a business.
Like a business, our Board of Trustees is
instrumental to the operation of The Uni-
versity. Without their guidance, our or-
ganization would fail. There is one as-
pect of a successful plan that is lacking,
however: Communication.

The Ring-tum Phi is communication
driven. After all, it is what we do.

We understand that some of what
the Board does must remain conﬁden-
tial, but that doesn’t mean that everything
they do has to be a secret.

Perhaps the Board of Trustees could
implement a plan in which its mission is
more readily provided to its various con-
stituencies.

Why not write a letter to the faculty,
staff, students and alumni after each
meeting and explain what was decided
during their assembly. We would all ben-
eﬁt by knowing some of what is discussed
during their get-togethers.

Communication is a two-way street.
More contact with students would ben-
efit the Board, as well. Currently, rep-
resentatives of the Executive Commit-
tee, Student Judicial Committee and Stu-
dent Faculty Hearing Board make pre-
sentations at each gathering of the trust-
ees. This year, Traveller was also in-
cluded.

The Board of Trustees should invite
a few students to dine with them at some
point during their time in Lexington.
“Regular” students might provide valu-
able insight into the Washington and Lee
Experience that board members might not
otherwise get.

We thank the Board of Trustees for its
hard work and dedication to The Univer-
sity. There is no question that members
have as much love for Washington and Lee
as any student, but why not do a better job
of communicating with the rest of us?

 

“...bigOtry may easily be exploited by
enemies of the United States and contribute
to an erosion of support within the Arab
world, and...increased risk for members
of the U.S. Armed Forces serving in

Muslim nations”

~Washington&IeeA1urn Senatorlohn
Warner (R-VA) on Lieutenant General
John Boykin’s anti-Islamic remakrs.

T.H:E; RlN(.}~”_i7ll?r£ PH:

CAIEYANDEBSON
OPINIONSEDIIOR

EMAmANorasONr@twn)u

PINIONS
131  i

 

 

PAGE 3

  Ort Wit 

  

pnorro coux-rssrr or onIz'neather1.r.£0rn

Roar, ROOT Roar? An extremely sparse crowd huddles in Montreal’s Olympic Stadium to watch the Expos thrash the Reds 13-2.

_ I love baseball. I’ve played it whenever I’ve had the opportunity since
before I can remember. I’ve watched it from behind the plate as an umpire for
years upon years. And as is appropriate for any baseball afﬁcionado, I’ve
been a die-hard devotee of my home town team from birth. In my case, the
home town tearn' is the San Diego Padres (if you ever see me around campus,
you’ll rarely see me without my Padres cap to hide my perennial bad haircut).
The Padres, with a payroll of $40 million, have not been doing well in recent
days. Since their establishment in 1969, they’ve been to the World Series
twice, in 1984 when they lost to the Tigers, and in 1998 when they were swept

by the Yankees.

Increasingly, more and more teams are sharing my home team’s experi-
ence of being beaten to a bloody pulp by the Yankees. While the scrappy
Marlins pulled off an unlikely victory this year, the Yankees win with almost
predictable regularity. Doubtless, the rich mastermind behind the New York
Yankees, George Steinbrenner, will respond to his team’s faﬂ-
ure to win a World Series in an unprecented three whole years
(bemused sarcasm, there) by spending even more money on a
team that already has the largest payroll in baseball to ensure
the continued dominance of the Yankees. This, in a nutsheﬂ,
is what is wrong with baseball today. '

The numbers show that America’s national pasttime is on the decline.
Football is by far more popular. Around 39 million were tuned in to the Game
6 ﬁnale of the Marlins-Yankees World Series at any given time. More than
twice that timed in to the Buccaneers-Raiders Super Bowl back in January.

Why? Why is baseball going downhill? Why is the MLB thinking of
connacting teams that have consistently performed well? Why are the strong
Montreal Expos dying for lack of fan support? Why do the Yankees win
again and again? Why are there strikes despite the fact that both players and
owners purport to love the game above money? And why, above all, do more
and more fans leave the game each year, tuning in, often, to other sports?

   
  

Let’s consider, for a moment, the‘NFL, which, as I’ve ‘said, is stagger-' I

ingly more popular than baseball at the ‘moment. The NFL has several
significant differences from the MLB, but the most important are these
We.

First, the National Football League has a policy called “Revenue Shar-
ing.” Under this policy, a majority percentage of the revenue gained by teams
from stadium advertising, paraphenalia sales, etc., must be spread evenly
among all 32 teams. The concept here is to prevent any one team from having
a terribly larger budget than others. While owners, obviously, can take or
give more money from or to their teams, any investment will return avbalanced
amount of money, as the excess goes to the other teams. This prevents
Steinbrenner-esque situations where more money brings more success, which

 Moiiiiiilriiis Musnxtcs
V CALEY ANDERSON ‘06

brings more money, which brings more success, etc. In this way, parity is
established. All the teams have an equal ﬁnancial shot at the Super Bowl, and
the fact is that you can’t buy a championship in football like you can in
baseball. The only time anyone ever brought up the concept of revenue
sharing in baseball, the large franchises (Yankees, Red Sox, Braves)_raised
such a stir that the issue was timidly withdrawn.

Second, the NFL has a salary cap, another measure to prevent gravita-
tion of all the talent to where the money is. You simply CAN ’T spend too '
much money, even if you want to. This, again, prevents one team from taking
a stranglehold on the entire sport, as well as stop . You will, of course, recall
that the last time they even discussed salary caps in baseball, they had a
strike that stopped the World Series from happening. And then all the players
and owners complain about how the fans are deserting them.

These two cons for baseball, combined with the fact that the Commis-
sioner is an owner of one of the teams, the fact that foot-
ball bans 14 performance-enhancing drugs that are freely
allowed in baseball, the fact that a lack of parity means
that the same teams win over and over again, the fact that
they’re trying to replace live umpires with robotic scan-
ners, these all combine to strike baseball out in the eyes of

its fans.

The future of baseball if it goes as it is will be one where fewer and fewer
fans show up to the ballpark. Large franchise teams will dominate the market,
and small ones like the Padres will suffer in losing seasons forever. Even
smaller ones, like the Twins and Expos, will be banished from baseball alto-
gether. And eventually, except for New Yorkers, people will stop caring about
baseball altogether. _

Whenever someone tries to make baseball a fairer sport ﬁnancially, either .
the players or the owners make an uproar, saying that the change will “unbal-
ance” the sport. This is a code term for “the change will cost me money.”
Honestly, these people makes millions. Is a difference between $105 million
and $50 million really going to matter all that much? If everyone so greedy
that they can’t make that sacriﬁce for the good of the sport, then they’re just
lying when they say you care about the game and its fans.

My hope is that someone, either a Commissioner of Baseball, a high-
proﬁle player, or perhaps a powerful owner, makes the salvation of baseball
their personal crusade. If a huge star, say a Derek Jeter or anA-Rod, stood up
and and announced that they would take a salary cut to save the game, and
that everyone else should do likewise, support for the idea would build. If
they don’t, well.... Sacriﬁce ﬂies and bunts are ﬁne, but you’ll be doing so in
front of fewer and fewer people unless you sacriﬁce your superﬂuous sala-
rres.

W&L students should respect, be civil

er.-42.1:-ec.~.r:2«i rs:

Editor in chief
Assistant Editor
News Editor
Opinions Editor
Arts & Life Editor
Photography Editor
Asst. Sports Editors

  

Jeb Brooks
Kyle Wass

Erin Julius
Caley Anderson
Megan Morgan
Cody Gabbard
John Hyland
Chad Kiewiet de Jmg
Hilary Henry
Emily Edwards
Anne Iadarola
Katie Howell

Production Assistants

Copy Editor
Editorial Director

Business Manager
Circulation Director
Distribution Dir.

Paul Seifert
Henry Grimball
Thomas Worthy

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during
the undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee
University, Lexington, Virginia. The Washington and
Lee Publications Board elects the Editor in chief, but
The Ring-tum Phi is otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible sub-
missions and letters. All submissions must be e-mailed
to phi@wlu.edu or in the University Center mailbox by
5 pm. Friday to appear in the following week’s edition
The Ring-tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions
for content and length. Letters and columns do not
necessarily reﬂect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi
Editorial Board. Advertising does not reﬂect the opin-
ions of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper
observes current court deﬁnitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
University Commons Rm 341
Washington and lee University

Lexington, Wrginia 24450

Telephone: (540) 458-4060
Fax: (540) 458-4059
Email: phi@wlu.edu

We may be college students, but we should
show a little respect for each other every now
and then. Don’t you think?

In recent weeks we have seen overzealous
athletic fans cause penalties on the field, obnox-
ious Traveller passengers and disrespectful ex-
changes between University Security and stu-
dents. I am, no doubt, guilty of some of the com-
plaints I am presenting here, however someone
has to step up to the plate and make the Univer-
sity community aware of some of
its most egregious pitfalls.

Washington and Lee’s famous
“only rule” of always being a
gentleman is something most all

‘ of us hold just short of sacred.

Perhaps we should do a better job of remember-
ing its meaning, though. I am certainly not call-
ing for complete order at the expense of college
pranks and fun. Such a plan would almost cer-
tainly fail. Instead, my goal is common decency
and simple respect for one-another. Is that such
a difficult thing to hope for?
Therearethreeareasonwhichlbelievewemust
work. Theyareath1etics,TravellerandSecrnityrela1ions

[EB BROOKS ‘O5

Energized fans are absolutely essential to a
successful athletic event. I don’t think I’m put-
ting words in anyone’s mouth, though, when I
chastise fans who are so excited that they nearly
cost a penalty. Running onto the field during
game play is inappropriate, unfair and stupid.
We are all Washington and Lee students and
surely are capable of appropriate behavior in
public. Attendees at games are not just mem-
bers of our group. Parents, faculty, staff and
students from our own insti-
tution as well as our
competitor’s attend. We
ought to put our best foot for-
ward for them.

Traveller drivers are

jar!

' doing a service for the W&L community. Every

student should, before he graduates, get behind
the wheel of a Traveller car. Come on y’ all, drive
for the program. If we all took that charge, maybe
there would be a reduction in the tendency to
have a short fuse with drivers. Next time you
call for a ride from Traveller, remember that ev-
eryone in the van or car is a fellow Washington
and Lee student.

RlNG—TUM Pr-;

Students who mock or jeer University Se-
curity Officers disrespect the most vital au-
thorities on campus. They are willing to put
their lives at risk to ensure that we have the
best and safest experience possible while in
Lexington.

Why make fun of someone so willing to
help us? Perhaps the personal relationships
ofﬁcers form with students make them seem
more like equals than superiors, at times.

These men and women may be our friends,
but we have also got to realize that when they
ask us to do something, we must do it. When
it comes to safety, they are in charge.

Our “one rule” means a lot. Maybe we
have lost sight of its importance in our day-
to-day lives. Remember that everyone you
encounter at Washington and Lee is a mem-
ber of the same community. That is truly spe-
cial. We all share a love for this utopia. Let’s
work to make sure it remains worthy of the
admiration that alumni, parents, faculty, staff
and students have for it. Show a little respect.

After all, we all stand together “in the
shadows of white columns.”

I

SENIOR VoTER’s GUIDE

Editors’Note: The candidates were asked about their views on the role of Executive Committee Representatives as role-models for the student body.

Eden Parks

The E.C. upholds the most valued aspect of the uni-
versity, the honor system. It is essential that repre-
sentatives understand the values of the honor sys-
tem and act honesﬂy and morally in order to set the
proper standards for the W&L community. I under-
stand the responsibilities of E.C. representatives and
am conﬁdent in my abilities to undertake this duty.

Willie Thompson

A member of the Executive Committee cannot
help but serve as a role-model for the student
body. There is no “must” about it. Subse-
quently, what becomes important lies in type of
role-model that he or she espouses. The ex-
ample that E.C. members set must reﬂect the
ideals of our founders

MattLaf.kas

The representatives are the only symbols of this
system that are present everyday; hence they must
act with the utmost personal responsibility. Rep-
resentatives are more than an honor judges; they
will be your personal definition of what this stu-
dent body if capable of in and out of the class-
room. »

 

  

PAGE 4 .



MONDAY, OCTOBER 27, 2003

Average American’s way of life leads to poverty

$18,556 a year. If a family of four earns that much or less, it is
considered poor. Over 34 million people don’t make that much in a
given year, according to the latest report from the US Census Bureau.
And today, I learned another shocking fact: America has the biggest
poverty problems out of all the industrial economy countries in the
world.

After being shocked, I was discouraged. How can the wealthi-
est nation have the most problems in poverty? And furthermore,
what can I do and what can all of us do to change this statistic? I
have a few thoughts I’d like to share.

First, poverty is in the eye of the beholder. For this point, let’s
just use European countries as the example of the industrial coun-
tries I will discuss. I do not claim to know a great deal 
about the economic and social situations in Europe, A 
but from what I do know, I am aware that they have a .
very strong public assistance program in which gov- V"
emment allocates a lot of subsidies for most citizens,
not just the underprivileged. Everyone pays heavy taxes in this
socialist system in return for large social programs (such as free
health care and subsidized college education) and basically every-
one is taken care of, so there is very little poverty as a result. Be-
cause people are closer to equality, more or less, there are fewer
economic distinctions between one person and another. It is the
opposite in America. We live in a capitalist society in which public
assistance is given to those who need it. Those who don’t need it
have learned to climb the economic ladder to reach an income bracket
where they can more than care for their own needs. Therefore there
are visible economic differences amongst Americans. When there is
such a disparity in the well-beings of individuals, the effects are more

  

noticeable. We can compare the conditions of one person with those of
another person’s because they are so drastically different. When every-
one is basically on the same level, then the differences are minimal and
barely noticeable, as is the case in European countries.

This difference in turn creates two different realities for us inAmerica
and they in Europe. We have a lot of work to do to rectify the disparity
while Europe can just take it easy for a bit. Those of us who have been
forttmate enough to grow up with all the privileges that American soci-
ety has to offer must play a proactive role in correcting the dismal situa-
tion for the people who have not had the same advantages. This is
obviously hard for us to do considering the present statistics.

We need to remember that everything we do and don’t do impacts

people in our society, especially those at the bottom

TRAIN OF THOUGHT economic tiers. When we object to raising taxes, our
TRAN KIM ‘O5 pocketbooks get fuller but the mouths of the poor get

hungrier. Our tax dollars go to fund welfare programs
and education programs that help ﬁll voids in these
people’s lives, and what we lose in raising taxes is in no comparison to
what they lose when we lower taxes. They seldom beneﬁt ﬁorn tax cuts
because they do not pay that much in taxes with such low incomes.
How much in taxes can a family of four pay when they make less than
$19,000, less than the cost of most of the cars at W&L? Currently, one
program is already suffering from changing economic policies. Head
Start, the federal pre-school program for underprivileged children, is
experiencing some ﬁnancial reductions. Some, like the Uplift Program in
Greensboro, NC, have lost huge grants and face closure.
Though I illustrated my previous point by discussing taxes, I don’t
think that the solution here is to pay attention to taxes and rally against
tax cuts. The solution is to change our way of life entirely. America

Freshman gives perspective and advice

Don’t care what a freshman has to say about W&L? Well, you
should! Because freshmen are the future of this school, (and more
importantly), I happen to be an especially cool freshman. It’s hard
to know where to begin. In the very beginning, college felt like
some kind of surreal and prolonged summer camp. In the back of my
mind, it was hard to remember that I was never “going home” again.
In fact, the very idea of home is kind of up in the air. This beautiful
campus will be my home for the next four years, and then it is up to
me to find a new one.

All through childhood I had longed for independence; the free-
dom to make my own choices and live my own life. The reality,
however, would affect me in ways I didn’t expect. I cannot speak for
my peers, (at least those not being completely honest with them-
selves), but it was a little hard to get used to. The idea of no longer
having my old group of friends, a support group in
the time when one could conceivably need them the V
most, was hard to handle. I even slightly resented the  3
fact that I had to start from scratch and meet people. ‘ " " ‘

The first few weeks of school was an endless
game of “What’s your name,” “Where are you from,” and “What
dorm are you in?” Once classes started, the routine set in and ev-
erything became more natural. I’m still, however, getting used to
the reading load and the fact that you can have only three or four
grades in a class. But now, Lexington feels like my home.

Now and then, I’m still struck by the beauty of the campus
when walking through the colonnade and am amazed that I really
go here. And I am still often surprised to look into the distance and
see mountains, like when walking out of what has to be the most
scenic Wal-Mart I’ve ever seen. Texas doesn’t even have hills! And
where did the Mexican food go? I can already appreciate that W&L
is a beautiful, unique, and nurturing place. But that is not to say
that I don’t have any advice for my fellow classmates or any

 

areas where there could be improvement. For starters, the
Princeton Review’s rankings weren’t always (at least in my
mind) things to be proud of.

I am infinitely proud of the quality of our teachers and
our academic growth (one of the nation’s top national liberal
arts colleges), but we are also #2 for “alternative lifestyles
not an alternative,” #5 “homogenous student population,”
#3 ‘‘lots of beer,” and #1 “most nostalgic for Reagan.”

I may be in the minority here, but these are not things
that I would brag to my friends or relatives about. Most of my
classmates back home had never heard of my school, but those
who did remembered it as “that one with all the beer.” This
was not exactly what I wanted to hear after working my butt
off through high school to get into the academically-best
school I could. And whether you are proud
of any one statistic or not, I think we can all
admit that some of them will naturally have
the result of turning some very interesting
. and talented students away. A little more di-
versity would only make W&L a more rich and exciting place.
And Lexington could always use a little extra excitement!

My only suggestion is that we make a conscious effort to
be open-minded and tolerant. Lexington and this area have a
lot to offer us and I would encourage everyone to make use of
it. Join a club! It’s a great way to meet people and you can
really make a difference. If classes are stressful and monoto-
nous, take a p.e. class. It’s a really nice way to mix things up
and most of them only last for six weeks. Check out what
historic Lexington has to offer. Spend a day walking around
and make a point of hitting all the hot-spots.

Go out on the lawn with a friend and take a roll of pictures. And
talk to all of the adults you can: from the book store to the town to the

cannot change unless we, the people who make up America, change.
That means we need to increase our awareness of the issue. The more
we know about the issue, the more we will be effective in implementing
change. That requires knowing the people we are helping. That means
eternal community service in some capacity. A lot of us are involved in
community service at W&L and probably prior to W&L as well, but
many of us will stop once we leave this community. For some unknown
reason, the drive to donate our time to help out diminishes once people
leave college in many cases. People are catapulted into the capitalism
and are consumed by the drive to succeed and prosper. And we forget
about the people who need our help. This trend must end. The more we
forget, the more people suffer.

We need to determine how it is we can help the underprivileged in
everything that we do. If your passion is law, offer some pro—bono
services to deserving persons who can’t afford your good services. Or
educate an impoverished community about the law through a church
because they are often unaware of their rights in this society. If you are
a future doctor, donate some of your services at a free clinic to help
people with serious medical problems who otherwise would not be able
to afford your care. Ifyou are soon to be investment banker, donate your
time in ﬁnancial advice and help aspiring business owners with few
resources with a loan. Regardless of what career you may choose to
pursue, you will undoubtedly possess some talents that can be used to
help someone in need. If each of us help at least one person attain a
better way of life, then 1,770 lives will be improved. But this number just
applies to students presently in the undergraduate level here. What
about the law school students, the friends that we inﬂuence, and the
people we’ll meet after undergrad? Just imagine the possibilities.

PI-{OT BY C0113 Bcoru), R1NG— I-{I
HOME, SWEEFHOME. BDG is home to many of the class of ‘O7

marketplace; I have already met such warm and fascinating

people. Finally, and most importantly, don’t forget that it’s-

okay to sleep. It is not necessary to play music or talk loudly
with friends till three in the morning on a Tuesday! I can tell
there’s no studying going on in there! And if you don’t feel
up to going to a party, or if you have a lot of work to do,
skipping one night will not destroy your social life. We fresh-
man have four years of partiesto go to. Spread it out a little or
you are likely to fail out, have a nervous breakdown, collapse
out of exhaustion, or else have it lose all its enjoyment.

Abortion: yes or no? Partial-birth abortions barbarous

This past Tuesday, the United “doctors” use a “dilation and ex-
StatesSenatevotedona64—34mar- traction” methodtoperfcrmpartial
gintobanpartialbirthabottions. birthabortions. Keepinmind,par-
Onlythreeweeks ago,theHouse tialbirthabortionsoccurintheﬁfth
of Representatives passedthe same month of pregnancy or later, after
measurebya281—142 margin. Ifeel the baby has developed many fea-
thisdecisionislongoverdne. Abor— turesofahumanbeing. Inthistype
tion is a disgusting of abortion,
practice that is of- SLICE ON LIFE the doctorpar—
ten abused in the ‘ tially removes
United States as a NICK MANNINO 07 the fetus ﬁom

form of birth con-

trol. While certain situations obvi-
ously justify abortion as a viable
option (rape, incest, danger to the
mother’s health), these operations
are often performed in the early
stages of conception, before a
physical being with discernable
human features forms in the
mother’s womb. Ifyou aren’taware
of the grotesque procedure doctors
utilizetoperformpar1ialbirthabor-
tions, let me enlighten you. These

the uterus and
pokes a hole in its skull. Sounds
nice, huh? Wait until you hear why
they poke aho1einthefetus’s skull.
Thepurposeofthisholeistopro-
vide a passageway for the fetus’s
braintobestlckedoutofitshead
Still holding your food? Wait,
there’s more. After the brain is
sucked out, the fetus’s head col-
lapses into a shape reminiscent of a
deﬂatedbasketball Whenthefetus’s
head is reduced to mush, the doctor

canthenremovetherestofthefetus
from the woman’s body. Is this a
procedure that any human being
deservestoendure,letaloneanin-
nocent fetus? This method of abor-
tion should have been ouﬂawed a
long, long time ago. Even those of
you who support abortion have to
admit that this procedure is utterly
disgusting at the very least In fact,
itis inhumane. Thepractice of suck-
ing out a human being’s brains
should be reserved for individuals
like Osama Bin Laden and Saddam
Hussein, not an innocent fetus well
onitswaytobecomingapartofthis
wodd.’

Under the umbrella of this ar-
gument lies a greater concern for
those of us who morally object to
abortion. It concerns another form
of abortion called “dilation and
evacuation.” Inthismethodof abor-
tion,whichisperformedinthesec-

onduimesterofpregnan_cy,adoctor
essentiallydisrnernbersafetusinside
the uterus and removes it piece by
pieceﬁomthemother’sbody. While
itisobviousthat“dilationandevacu-
aticn”proceduresarelessvisiblydis-
turbingthan“dilationandext1action”
procedures (where the fetus’s head
is outside the uterus during the pro-
cess),thisfactorismorallyinsigniﬁ-
cant My concern is that a htnnan
being,whohasno sayinthematter,
isbeingkilledbeforeitevenhasa
chance to enter this world What
rightdowehaveasmorallyrespon-
sible human beings to destroy the
life ofan innocent fetus simply be-
cause it is a convenient alternative
tohavingachild?

I’m not blind to the variables
that encourage women to have an
abortion. Insomesituations,wornen
simply do not have the money or
resourcestopropedycareforachild.

I recognize this problem, but also
olferasuggestionastohowabop
tion can be avoided Why not give
the baby up for adoption? While
Pmfullyawarethatdeliveringababy
is avery emotionally draining expe-
rience and that strong bonds form
betweenthemotherandthebabyas
a result of this experience, if the
woman cared enough for her child
andwantedittobeapartofthis
world, she would strongly consider
adoption a practical alternative. An-
other argument I hear is that birth
control fails at times and 
happen” Thisis suchapoorexcuse
foranabortionthatitrnakesme sick
tolistentoit Aftermanyyears of
sex-ed classes and parental conver-
sations on the matter, I would hope
that as responsible adults, we rec-
ognizethatifitis simply impossible
forustocareforachild, andthepros—
pectoffailedbirthcontrolistoorisky,

PtlAlES

Grow LAWRENCE RANGEL
PELATES/ALEXANDER Meruoe

309 N. Main St. —  , VA 24450

       
 

540-461-3447

¢

 

 

we shouldn’t be having sex in the
ﬁrst place. A troubling notion, I
know. But think of the conse-
quences. We’re students at one of
the most elite universities in the
country. We have the potential for
a very successful and prosperous
life ahead ofus. Ourparents can’t
wait forus to make aton of money
so we can buy them that beach
house they always wanted And
then your girlﬁiend gets pregnant.
It’s a tough situation to swallow.
So you tell your girifriend to have
an abortion, and she goes through
with it Twenty years later you’re a
father of two witha great job, won-
derful wife, and a perfect life. Will
you be able to simply forget that as
a result of your college revelries a
human life was destroyed? Con-
sider the options people, abortion
is not the answer.

        

- ' f_ .l
I it-IEUNTING TIRES
cfﬁillntialnuitagtﬁrgvl

 :'g;t:$atru.rdw,
Naruamhut

TUEBQ BEGHI AT
32% E??? "Q"
I mum: Tran um cu:
Thursday an». Frtdw 31*,
Bctwvay 1“

       

I

 

    

JOHNHYIAND
AssisrANrSPoR1sEDr10R
EMAn;HYiAtu@wuin)U

MONDAY, OCTOBER 27, 2003

’§’1_~li?.‘. RlE\l{:1«-’.§.‘UM_ Par

PORTS

PAGE 5

Women’s soccer poised for the postseason action
Team ranked 18th in national poll going into ODAC Tournament with 12-1-2 record

JOHN HYIAND
ASSISTANT SPORTS EDiToR

The W&L women’s soccer team ended its regu-
lar season yesterday with a record of 12-1-2 (9—l—l
ODAC). The Generals are currently ranked 18"‘ in
the country nationally and will enter the ODAC
tournament with the second seed behind Virginia
Wesleyan.

The Generals traveled to Greensboro, N.C., on
Wednesday for a conference game against Guilford.
W&L got on the scoreboard when freshman for-
ward Anne Wiltshire found senior forward Fontaine
Marceaux for a score 15 minutes into the game. The

Mens’ soccer reelin

JOHN HYLAND
ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITOR

After opening the season with a 6-0-2 start,
one of the best in school history, the W&L men’s
soccer team has now lost ﬁve in a row, including
two this past week to drop their record to 6-5-2.
They have fallen to sixth place in the ten team
ODAC conference.

The Generals hosted Guilford on Wednesday.
The Quakers entered the game behind W&L in the
ODAC standings but got off to a quick start when
they scored less than 7 minutes into the game.
Guilford took their lead into halftime even though
W&L out shot the Quakers 7-3 in the ﬁrst half and
missed a direct penalty kick. The Generals contin-
ued to control the game in the second half but
were unable to tally a score. Their frustration was
very apparent as Generals players were hit with
two yellow cardsand one red card. The Quakers,
however, were able to convert on their few oppor-
tunities. Junior midﬁelder Ampofo Darko tallied two
late second half goals for the Quakers to preserve
the 3-0 victory . All told, the Quakers scored on 3
of their 9 shots while W&L was unable to place
any of their 22 shots in the back of the net. Quak-
ers goaltender Zane Campbell was very effective

in thwarting the W&L attack, notching 9 saves. The Generals junior

keeper, Chris Carlson, made 3 saves in the loss.

W&L traveled to Bridgewater on Saturday for a conference
match—up with the second ‘place Eagles, who entered the game with
an 11-4 record (5-2 ODAC). The Generals opened the scoring midway
through the first half, when junior midﬁelder Brian Pirkle scored his
team leading eighth goal of the season off an assist from senior
midﬁelder Jacob Stoehr. W&L extended their lead early in the second
half when sophomore midﬁelder Derrick Lott found Stoehr who beat
Eagles goalkeeper Jon Boller for his third goal of the season. The
Generals maintained their lead more than halfway through the sec-

Generals extended their lead to 2-0 when junior de-
fender Kelley Zagol buried an unassisted goal with
just 35 seconds remaining in the ﬁrst half. It was all
the scoring the Generals would need. The Quakers
cut the lead in half to 2-1 early in tlie second half.
They held a narrow 10-8 shot advantage for the
game but could not get another score past W&L
goalkeeper Emily Barker. The junior made four of
her ﬁve saves in the second half. Guilford currently
stands in a tie for fourth place in the ODAC with a
record of 7-4 (1 1-8 overall). -

W&L was on the road again on Wednesday

g after ﬁfth straight loss

when they headed to Roanoke to face the Maroons
in another conference match-up. The Generals
wasted no time taking advantage of Roanoke as
senior midﬁelder Heather Coleman converted on a
Wiltshire pass just over 5 minutes into the game.
However, the Maroons came back to even the score
just 4 minutes later and took the lead at the 39:18
mark of the ﬁrst half. The game entered halftime
with the same 2-1 score. The Generals evened the
score at 2 midway through the second half when
Wﬂtshire connected on junior midﬁelder Maggie
Hope ’s pass. The tally extended Wﬂtshire’s team

scoring lead with 30 points on 12 goals and«6 as-
sists. Both teams’ defenses played tough for the
remainder of the game as nobody could get on the
scoreboard for the rest of the second half and over-
time and the game ended in a 2-2 tie. For the Gener-
als, Barker made 4 saves in goal. The Maroons
closed out their regular season with a record of 7-8-
3 (4-4-3 ODAC)

The Generals will return to action this Satur-
day for the ﬁrst round of the ODAC tournament.
The site and opponent of the match is yet to be
determined.

WHERE DID rr 60? Mens’ soccer’s slide in the ODAC standings continues.

Lewis)» 1

him.”

 

CORBIN BLACKFORD/ Rms -TUM Pi-ii

Cam and HyIando’s Top Ten list:
Top Ten Mike Tyson Quotes

10: “I just want to conquer people and their souls”
9: “My main objective is to be professional but to kill him (Lennox

8: “I’m from the ghetto. I don’t know how to act. One day I’m
in a dope house robbing somebody. The next thing I know, ‘You’re
the heavyweight champion of the world.”’

7: “I’m the biggest ﬁghter in the history of the sport. If you
don’t believe it, just check the cash register.”

6: “On June 8, ﬂesh will not be enough. I will take Lennox’s title,
his soul & smear his pompous brains all over the ring when I hit

5: “[He] called me a ‘rapist’ and a ‘recluse.’ I’m not a recluse.”
4: “Lennox Lewis, I’m coming for you man. My style is impetu-
ous. My defense is impregnable, and I’m just ferocious. I want
your heart. I want to eat his children. Praise be to Allah!”

3: “You’re sweet. I’m going to make sure you kiss me good
with those big lips. I’m gonna make you my girlfrien .”

ond half. However, Bridgewater cut the lead in half at the 73 minute
mark and evened the score at 2 with 6 minutes left in the game on a
goal by John Williamson. The Eagles forward continued his heroics
in overtime when he beat Carlson with 1:20 left in the ﬁrst overtime to
give Bridgewater a comeback 3-2 victory. Carlson and sophomore
Michael Stanton split time in goal for the Generals, each recording 2
saves. . . . . . . .

,  laitter loss could not come. at a worse time for .theGenerals,
who close out their regular season against Emory and Henry on
Wednesday. W&L will probably need a victory to qualify for the

2: “I paid a worker at New York’s zoo to re-open it just for me
and Robin. When we got to the gorilla cage there was 1 big
silverback gorilla there just bullying all the other gorillas. They

were so powerful but their eyes were like an innocent infant. I

offered the attendant $10,000 to open the cage and let me smash

that silverback’s snotbox! He

1: “I try to catch him right on the tip of the nose, because I try

to push the bone into the brain.”

ODAC tournament which starts this weekend.

New downtown Lex studio offers largely unknown type of exercise

ALLisoN PERRY
CONTRIBUTING EDITOR

A new studio has opened up in Lexington that
offers a unique kind of exercise—one that many do
not know a lot about. Gloria Rangel opened up her
Pilates studio this fall on North Main Street.

Rangel prefers to adhere strictly to Joseph
Pilates’ work, the man who created the Pilates pro-
gram. She argues that following Pilates’ instruc-
tion is far different from any Pilates tapes done by
Wmsor Pilates or Denise Austin.

“I have mixed emotions about the spin-offs of
Joseph Pilates’ work,” Rangel said. “But at least it
brings about awareness of the methodology.”

Rangel offers both private sessions and mat
classes. The private sessions are $60 for one hour,
and she says she can teach about seven sessions
in one day.

The mat classes are $20 per class and are by
appointment only in order to guarantee a spot.
Rangel likes to only teach ten people per mat class
so that each student can receive more attention.

A few area college students have called to in-
quire about the classes, but Rangel says she cur-
rently only has local Lexington citizens as clients.

Many people confuse Pilates with yoga. But
Rangel sees Pilates as deﬁning and more ﬂuid than
yoga. _

“When you think of yoga, you think of posi-
tions,” Rangel said. “In Pilates, we address every
single, solitary bone and every single, solitary

muscle. . .in the way I have been trained.”

Rangel obtained her certiﬁcation from the
Physical Mind Institute. In 1961, she began her
studies in New York under Igor Yousevich and then
Kelly Kane. Rangel also graduated from the Ameri-
can Academy of Dramatic Arts in New York. She
originally wanted to become a ballerina before dis-
covering Pilates.

Before moving to Lexington in 2001, Rangel
worked as the director of the Williams Island Spa in
Florida and helped put together the Diplomat Spa,
also in Florida. _

Rangel said that she and her husband moved
to Virginia along with their six children because she
thought they would receive a good education here.
Their children range in age from 10-18.

Rangel’s studio is currently the only Pilates
studio in Lexington. The main room of the studio
houses several pieces of equipment including the
Barrel, the Clinical Reformer, the Cadillac, and the
Wunda chair. Each of these pieces was created
based on Joseph Pilates work.

Pilates was originally from Germany, but he
left to avoid being part of the army. He came to
New York in 1926 and opened his first studio. His
work was first welcomed by the ballet world. But
Rangel said it was not until recently that his pro-
cess was recognized in Germany.

Pilates had a background invthe medicine ﬁeld,
and much of his program grew out of rehabilitation.
Regular practice of a Pilates program will develop
core stabilization.

Rangel said that the process is about using
deep, small muscles and working the entire length

of the muscle. Then through mobilizing the joints,
executions of movements become effortless with-
out strain to the spine.

“No pain, no gain is not our mantra,” Rangel
said. “It’s all from the inside out. It’s all internal.”

She believes that Pilates can be summed up in
three P’s: precision, position, and power.

Rangel says she loves her work and constantly
continues her education in the Pilates field. In ad-

dition to teaching at her studio, she also will be
offering a class through Dabney S. Lancaster Com-
munity College.

Rangel stressed again that Pilates is all about work-
ing with the right group of muscles through in-
tense movement.

“It’s neurological,” Rangel said. “We’re about re-
moving bad memory chips.”

LAURA PONTlER/ RrNG—TUM PHI

STRETCHING OUT. Gloria Rangel opened up Lexington’s ﬁrst Pilates exercise studio this fall.

TH1s WEEK’s SCHEDULE

0C. Country at ODAC’ --TBA
OW Swim at Sewanee--11 :00
°Wrestling at VMI Inv.--
-10:00

Tuesday, October 28 Wednesday, October 29 Thursday, October 30 Friday, October 31 Saturday, N0V€mb9" 1 Sunday, N0Vemb€T' 2
0 VB vs. Lynchburg--6:30 0 M Soccer vs. E&H--3:00 OPEN 0 VB at Maryville ° FB vs. Bridgewater--1 :00 OPEN
0 F. Hockey vs. R-Macon- 0 W Swim vs. RMWC-- Toum.--TBA ° W Soccer at ODAC ’S-T BA
-7:00 6:00 0 Riding at RMWC Inv.-- 0 E Hockey at ODA_C’s-
TBA . T BA
0 M Swim vs. VMI--10:00
VB at Maryville Inv.--T BA

 

 

PAGE 6  0 MONDAY, OCTOBER 27, 2003

, Triple Ninesodety Lambda Chi, Chi Omega and the Lexington Police
Look Good for Your Parents! Founded 1978 Department
Extraordinary camaraderie 1

_ invite you and your children to a
In an

Come by and see Skip, Connie and Vlﬂlson at the NEW LOCATION! international society of peers. HA [1 ; 1ED 1 R‘ HER] J1 ) HOUSE
99_9th percentue: Wednesday, October 29 6:30-9:00pm

S  P T H O M P  O N 5.3 . end SAT 1450,.new SAT 1520, The Lambda Chi House (225 E. Nelson St)
. _ f . GRE 1460, MAT 85; "
0 _ see complete list at:
BARBER SHOP WWW-Wine-°r9 F0‘ Re”

17 S_ Randolph _, Lexington’ VA ' Parents/Alumni -- Restored and modernized log cabin on 22 . I’
Open Mon., Tues., Thurs., & Fri. 8 a.m. — 5 pm. 0‘ 3° inmountams 15 mi“W°St°fLeXin3"°n- 2BR/ZBA“
Sat. 8 a.m. - noon; Closed Wed. & Sun. S1°°PS 6- AV311 Wkly °T “ﬂy ‘"3 1“-mm

 

Call (804)355-0002

 

 

 

    

o o 0 .

I ,
Un1vers1ty am, e Peatawmmt *

‘ le  e I‘ S PEDAL CAR mates: 8: Tee Tm‘ CAFE
out from I 24 an as ‘
01* §ein 2.13%: am:  Y01} ‘£?§&r:$:L&;y;uffca§
-« Friday Night Seafood Buffet with .
WE’LL GET RID OF YOUR DIRT HOUSE FOR RENT ~ Saurwy um sees: a si1a?:: sgisaiﬁaigiffma

. ~Sunday aaaeus. em Ribs ‘£1A?¢¥—-»9¥3M x

Available June 2004 2 “Se i 7 awe“ WWW 2

2 3 geglckef ﬁtfegatth 2'32;  2

° FOOITIS '

_ Great SerV1Ce_ Living Room/Large Kitchen 13-Rﬁ3«&’fF“0f>f>& AG!t_‘£M Cmaﬁwfm  "

F1rSt_ R ate Qu ahty washer/Dryer ‘.4.rm:£2t—:r. ?£2‘.~lt.§i. Cans ezggggjérgt .

Recently Renovated  .  A A ;,,_:gg;~;»MwA»,o_9,V0m -
$840/mo_ S»-Bi & .1964,   E526 RX. 51 R. l

7 North Jefferson Street dry cleaning, 463-9180 eveningsl weekends mxmwggimﬂ f

463-3622 laundry, alterations 458-5001 weekdays 5”“ 73 ';
_.

|NS‘PiRiEB BY H3? RUSS, SUVS MID DARWW.
t
I
ta: Same ‘fears _ _ "
3»3§3*‘§35*?§’§§ Seats fire, has 53 Eﬂhic
§:aw.s.eas§§as}:tm.2rs.2aa. : _
0  0 0 feet of cargo spaecee. and  ,
G0 to class_ is arailahie mi!!! 189 33$
.. and a &speed marina! .
You’ 11 learn sliift.‘ Even evolution
more, can’t fully explain it. j I
mama sar:m*-.£sus..s...::at amm é
MOSI Of th€ w§raereia5swisua;arEtmai..~aem4:ss 3 ’
_ re:rua1:;P9sa§ssr¢3ain§are:c1;»sra.a:{taa2sIa;§

' Etww.Ac1tut%aI.ts-§a::.ai.§1rzas.§:t. ’

  LSAT score
guaranteed    guaranteed
or your money back"  or your money back"

Prepare for the April 2004 MEAT  Going to law school in zoos? Prague tor the L$AT
with Kaplam  on campus a_1W&LIi  — with Kaplan hurt an umpire at WKLII

classes beget Jmuaw 1t}. 2064.  classes begin on  23, 20114.
Enrol! ROW  October 3151 am! native Enroll  and begin your
on-allne  Review FREE!  studs: at any tlnuxt

 ' and K&%i0ﬂ§  !L§iﬂhi£cm§iwlrmImi)u:nnuxi'1mLmieruainidniiaiut§nmsi. ﬂﬁ Kﬂiliiﬂﬂl

 all mcualredenlasses or malsma sessions.  all rnqtimd claaus or rnukoew sessions.
ecmpiata all stcha-nuiazaa fiesta. moi: ms  

3f WU! Eﬂﬂfﬁ €Ib3§l?i't Mﬁélﬂhﬁ WI 58%? {I33 VIM? f§'CéJl' A _ L n N iY1t'0Ul' WW9 ilﬁﬁlllfl 18391033 0!’! WM‘ UB5‘ TENN INT L  N
Rapist ztIaym1’i¢::.or' 8 peter dmclal  st:-o¢‘§,._  - _ i _. Dciﬂﬁﬁ dﬂttnﬁliﬁ: or 3  afﬂninl ‘mt   _ .

catiamuoee-torenastmrpsrcermngarfreeargaea Aeend'ioaae'mmaaatwrnuug:rHmmr!raaorgai'a
.9715!  af;5I:a¢.Ir'tI£!t1n.1'u mmigiisa fiar this offer, full  of ﬁillaqiuilia fizrtﬁlisaflate

§;?e'§f?.§??;“§%%$%“£e§i£‘§Z§Z€E; t =- :9 ll -e Ital? ~ ‘I’ E S 1' ?$$.'Z§‘$e?°e.31§§;?.;}”;e’§f“£.”;§eL‘?;§.‘§S§?n;“£*. I - it I! - III? - T E 5 T
. ..dmm.. .1,    1 ..ﬂ ‘ H mm am.“ of. _ .d I 0
iafumn grmmfrugéutégm kaptestmm/mama xmn §reeuee°?'§.“’eeeaT§"'e§3§."’ea”°’§§.§f”_' 0 KBPWS1-«MRI./law

 

 

MONDAY, OCTOBER 27, 2003   PAGE 7
#1 Spring Break Vacations!   

Cancun, Jamaica, Acapulco, Bahamas, 9

Mazatlan, Florida, SPadre. 110% Best Prices! in Reekbl-idge Baths on Maury River
Book Now & Get Free Parties & Meals! 2 bedroom, 2 bath
Group Discounts, Now Hiring Campus eentral air, ﬁreplace

REPS! 1'800‘234‘7007 $850 + security deposit and references
endlesssummertours.com eau evenings 703_503_g239

 

~ The ‘Ring-tum Phi is a really good place to work. Come join the tradition. ~

Fine Resale Apparel 51.

’ a Vintage Collectables 

20 West Washington Street ‘ .
in I-Iistoric Downtown k
Lexington, Virginia 

Open Monday-Saturday 10-5

 , Hits a     4’|15SOuthJeffer3Qn Street

   
       
     
 

, Just Arrived 

 

     exington,VA 
‘  »      V’
Crystal Jewelry ~  V‘  ‘ ' j V
Beaded Pulses "I

Embroidered Scarves

  
   
 
   
  
 
  
  

B_ebe‘*Ann Taylor * St. John :    
Anne Klein * Dana Buchman - - Ouf  
n ' A i»* -' Q ~ .
ezeeeezrizeeexez   Olﬁmmastsng      
1 TheGaP *1-Crew * DKNY ltalian Dinners!   : '? e.  
Ra1phLauren * Li1}yPuIiizer phi@W1u_edu . H « I - ' ;‘*=>e'~-e , Dme n 

  CAN no I!   e   l     3”“? 

 com FRAME$l
‘  HOT LENSES!
   

;  ee: eee ea, Melee er,-me. Leenegeee
“  2 eeeeeaee

Story idea? Email it to phi@wlu.edu

e * The College Town Shop 4 (me Cutting

951 e
lllW.Nels0nSt., Compme Wcmfor

MASIERCA/éo - VISA - AMERICAN EXPRESS - HOUSE CHARGES 91/[en amfft/1/omen
Style Cuts

_ C[ipper'Cuts
Compkte Q3oc{y Care

i Manicure
~ a. 0 (Pedicure
Waxing
V 0 117 W. Welsori St.
‘ ‘ , Lexington, ‘V/'1

463-9588
Cﬂwse to Campus

  Men’s Suits and Sporlcocils   imsmwsawnwtﬁa
\( d G’ersona[’I'oucﬁ!

Ladies Sweaters   51 ..      _    e e 

 
 
   
     
  

 

d

'   fle‘!¥'II'fl";§}'l."$TE"'lﬁ e;;ie.ie:z'a'ei.. ee.e:i$.  isle is ’ ' ' "    leek  
   ﬁélkieg ireeicgle he  eajiiile =3.:.l"e:   -i.-iu::irié;e:

Ii’:?i ¥£F.'::i1:!'Tl2l.!€fTiE£§..§'::i‘;!.l;fi?§ifi£*'fi‘;1F’ i=€;T.:ui‘il.é4g-see F"‘:e;m:i‘eei~.-i;-e§re,;;;=.

Our wa y of welcoming
- all our parents!

   

         

     

Serving the community since 1926.

Wafch for ofher upcoming specials in future issues.

 

 

  

 

PAGE 8



MONDAY, OCTOBER 27, 2003

Fening cl umers soar as students discover sport

CHRISTINE GRAY / THE RING—'l'UM PHI

LUNGE. Matt Miller parties a lunge from Marcurius Byrd at last Fridays Fencing Club practice.

Field hockey blanks Hollins, 6-0

W&L SPORTS RELEASE

Senior forward Kelly Taffe (Charlottesville, Va!
Albemarle) scored three goals as the Washington
and Lee ﬁeld hockey team defeated Hollins, 6-0, in
ODAC action on Saturday afternoon.

Taffe’s performance marks a Generals’ (7-7, 5-
2) program-record for goals in a game. Freshman
forward Amy Brown (Potomac, Md/Holton-Arms)
scored a pair of goals for W&L while sophomore
midﬁelder Jane Beall (Richmond, Vajlames River)
rounded out the scoring with the last goal on the
day.

Washington and Lee took a 2-0 lead into half-

time thanks to Brown’s goals. Junior forward Kristen
Brown (Baltimore, MdJCatonsville) and sophomore
defender Katharine Lester (Wilmington, Del./
Friends School) each recorded an assist in the f irst
half.

Sophomores Elise Gelinas (Rosemont, Pa./
Agnes Irwin) and Courtney Harrison (Richmond,
Va./Collegiate) split time in the Generals’ goal.
Gelinas started while Harrison took over duties in
the second half. Neither keeper needed to make a
save as W&L held Hollins (0-1 1, 0-7) to no shots in
the game.

Caroline Adams made 19 saves for Hollins.

Turnovers hamper offense, send Generals home with a loss

BY CAMERON GARNER
STAFF WRITER

The Generals fell behind 14-0 midway through
the second quarter, and couldn’t climb back against
ODAC foe Guilford (2-5, 1-2). The two teams fm-
ished the game closely matched in total yards and
first downs. The Generals passed for almost ‘twice
as many yards, but couldn’t overcome their ﬁve
turnovers. Senior Quarterback Peter Dean scored
the lone touchdown on a 1-yard scamper, and was
17-of-35 for 201 yards, but was picked off twice.

The Generals fumbled four times, losing three,
killing momentum and allowing the Quakers to score

34 points, 14 of them directly on defensive touch-
downs. Taylor Callaham caught 4 balls for 51 yards,
John Barnwell and Patrick Neuman each caught 3
balls for 43 yards, and Clark Kensinger caught 2
balls for 37 yards. Michael Lackett rushed 21 times
for 80 yards and Richard Garland rushed 6 times for
13 yards. The Generals defense, which forced two
turnovers of their own, was led by sophomore
tackle, Liam Murray, who made 11 tackles.

The loss dropped W&L’s record to 2-5 (1-3
ODAC) on the season. The Generals return to ac-
tion against nationally ranked Bridgewater this Sat-
urday in a conference match-up at 1:00 pm at Wil-
son ﬁeld.

SARAH BLOOM
STAFF WRITER

Club Fencing has taken center stage in club
sports. Over 40 freshmen signed up at the Activi-
ties Fair for this ancient sport and participation has
been exceptional. The addition of the freshmen has
bumped the roster up to approximately 80 mem-
bers. ‘

“I’m so glad that I signed up to fence.” said
Liane Carlson, a freshman, of her newfound activ-
ity, “I’ve never really done it ' ~
before but I am excited to keep

“The sport of fencing is fast and

History suggests that fencing has had its place on
campus since the beginning of the 19th century.
In the 1980s, Coach Dr. James Worth truly brought
the fencing club together and nearly achieved
NCAA recognition in intercollegiate athletics. Af-
ter his leave, the sport continued, but in a rather
disjointed format. In 2002, the club was refounded
by a freshman and now has several dozen active
members and looks to host a fencing competition
on home turf later this year.

Students practice Monday, Wednesday, and
Friday from 7-9 and Saturday
from 2-4. Attendance is re-

it up.” _ , quired at least once weekly to

So what exactly is fenc- athleuca Wlth 9- great deal of mental  standing on the team
ing? Fighters can compete in strategy,” roster. The team competes
three different weapons: Foil, K CHA ,07 with all willing schools within

epee, and sabre. Foil is typi-
cally the weapon of choice at W&L.

“It [foil] is just the most basic weapon to use.”
explained freshman Kari Chachula, a freshman, of
the team’s preferred weapon. “The sport of fencing
is fast and athletic, with a great deal of mental strat-
egy.”

The goal of fencing is to score a set number of
points on an opponent during the course of a fenc-
ing ‘bout’ which is the term used to describe a fenc-
ing match or game. Points are scored by hitting the
opponent with the foil within the target area. This
area ranges from the shoulder to the groin.

Club Fencing has a rich history here at W&L.

the area. Currently, competi-
tions are set up with VMI, George Washington
University, and Hollins.

The major goal of the team is to attain enough
funds to buy electrical equipment to host a home
competition. All levels of fencers compete on the
team including several students that have never
even had prior exposure to the sport.

“We all have different goals,” said Chachula.
“I’m always looking to improve my strategy and
blade/footwork to become a better fencer.”

Students interested in joining the fencing club
team should contact Caley Anderson at

AndersonC@wlu.edu.

Volleyball downs Macon, S. Virginia

W&L SPORTS RELEASE

Junior outside hitter Emily Wolﬁng (Mt. Airy,
Md./South Carroll) surpassed the 1,000 mark in ca-
reer digs as the Washington and Lee volleyball
team improved to 26-3 overall, 10-0 in the ODAC
with a pair of wins on Saturday.

The Generals started the day with a 3-1 win
over Randolph-Macon (21-4, 8-1), defeating the
Yellow Jackets, 30-18, 30-21, 26-30, 30-28. Wash-
ington and Lee then wrapped up the day with a 3-0
victory over Southern Virginia (17-15), downing the
Knights 30-20, 30-26, 30-19. -

In the match against Randolph-Macon, Wolf-
ing and fellow junior outside hitter Michelle
Chastain (Phoenix, Ariz./Xavier Prep) led the way
with 20 kills each. Wolﬁng added 20 digs, while
Chastain added 14 digs. Sophomore middle blocker
Susan Gaillard (Charleston, S.C./Porter-Gaud) had
17 kills and sophomore setter Christine Gladysz
(Palm Harbor, Fla./Berkeley Prep) ﬁnished the match
with 58 assists and 11 digs.

In the match against Southern Virginia, Wolf-

6 ing surpassed the 1,000 career digs mark with 11

digs, while recording nine kills. Gaillard added 10
kills, while Chastain and sophomore right side Laura
Byme (Springﬁeld, Pa./Merion Mercy Academy)
each had seven kills. Gladysz recorded 40 assists
and junior libero Jennifer Lux (Virginia Beach, Va./
Cox) added 13 digs.

Radolph-Macon defeated Southern Virginia 3-
2 with game scores of 30-25, 27-30, 30-26, 23-30 and
15-12.

Washington and Lee returns to action on Tues-
day, when the Generals host Lynchburg. Match
time is 6:30 p.m.

CoRBiN BLACKFORD / RING-TUM PHI
SPIKED. Junior Michelle Chastain spikes the ball.

S'l'$'l'RAVE|..COM

s_, Earn Cash, Go Free!
How mag Omtampeus Reps

 

I-800-5-1-381$’? I‘ wwvwlatr avcttom

Golf Etiquette
tip of the

2 Replace your

week:

divots.  

University Sportwear
your downtown location for

W&L apparel and gifts
New Exclusive Football Polo Shirt for the 2003 season
15 W. Washington Street

Lexington, Virginia
540-464-3000

 

DO You Know an

The

  Amazing Person?

Celebrating Student Success

Committee

is now accepting nominations in the areas of:

Publications and Media
Performing Arts
Recreation

We seek the unsung heroes, the people who work tirelessly behind

the scene, adding depth and breadth to the
Washington and Lee community.

All nominees will beiincluded in the selection process of the

John W. Elrod Unsung General Award

Nomination forms can be picked up in the main hall of the
commons or via email from Burr Datz, bdatz@wlu.edu

Nominations are due by noon, Tuesday, November 11th.

MBGANMORGAN

AR’lS&LIFEEDIDOR
FMAn;MoR;ANMB@vwnn
MONDAY, OCTOBER 13,2003

nu RlN(}~’E”tflvi Pat

RTS

PAGE 9

  LIFE

Moustache Society raises money for Project Horizon

The program makes men hairy and helps ﬁght domestic violence. Professors and Administrators are sponsored by students and others to grow facial hair.

BY JENN BACKE
STAFF WRITER

Is there a razor shortage at Wal-Mart? Did Gilette suddenly go
bankrupt? No, certainly not, but why then are so many Washington
and Lee men sporting facial hair, moustaches to be exact? The rise
of facial hair on campus stems from the advent of the Moustache
Society, a group of men on campus committed to changing percep-
tions of male indifference to the issue of sexual assault.

These men are growing moustaches and asking for monetary
pledges for their weekly efforts, money they will then donate to
Project Horizon, a local agency that provides shelter and support
for victims of domestic violence and sexual assault. Senior Warren
Baker summarizes, “The Society is changing the face of W&L or at
least making efforts to show W&L men condemn domestic, dating,
and sexual violence through supporting Project Horizon.” The
Moustache Society began their attempts after Reading Days and
will continue growing moustaches for a four week period ending on
Wednesday, November 19.

The Moustache Society arose out of multiple conversations
about sexual assault at W&L beginning back last spring when poet
and alumna Lyrae Van Clief-Stefanon gave a Women’s Studies col-
loquium that raised the issue and inspired an intense discussion.
Lesley Wheeler, English professor and chair of the Women’s Stud-
ies Program, and Jan Kaufman, University Health Educator, fol-
lowed up this fall by creating a task force comprised of people from
different sectors in the university.

One goal of the group was to tackle the common misconcep-
tion that sexual assault only affects women and that Washington
and Lee men are apathetic to the problem. Prof. Wheeler explains
her concern: “I’ve worried a lot about the disjunction between the
negative things I hear about male students and my own
experiences with them as a teacher and adviser, which have been
wonderful. l’ve been here over nine years, and every term I have at
least one student who is struggling to cope with a recent sexual
assault—sometirnes I only find out when it escalates into a crisis
that affects her academic work. I’ve wondered how the smart,
thoughtful, creative students I work with daily could allow this
climate of frightened silence to exist.”

I To break this culture of silence, Prof. Theresa Braunschneider
proposed the idea of the Moustache Society, a group enacted at
Kalamazoo College during her undergraduate study there. Wash-
ington and Lee men were contacted and the society was born. Be-
sides having a successful predecessor, Caleb Dulis, a senior and
Moustache Society member, adds “It gets people’s attention, and it
indicates that those of us in the group care enough about this issue
to pay the small social cost of looking ridiculous for four weeks.”

Since its inspiration many men have joined the Society and mem-
bers include but are not limited to Warren Baker, Caleb Dulis, Patrick
Hastings, Ansel‘ Sanders, Jimmy‘ ‘Zunka, ‘Andy ‘Mendrala, Brandon
Waddell, Daniel Vos, Harlan Beckley, Scott Dittman, John Blackburn,

JEB BROOKS / THE RH\IG— PHI

Facial Hair. Professor Harlan Beckley sports his freshly grown mustache. Torn Shepherd, benefactor of the Shepherd Povery Program, is among

the supporters of Beckley’s hair—growth.

Tom Kane, and Ben Losi. There are also joint efforts at the Law school.

Caleb Dulis says he joined the Society because, “It was the gentlemanly
thing to do.” More men are encouraged tojoin the Society bycontacting a
rnember,LesleyWheelerorJanKaufman Prizeswillbeawardedtothemanor

organ1zati' ‘on raising the most money and some men are already anticipating
close to $500 in donations. Through November 19, ﬁnd Society members

ioutsidetheConm1onsorcontactamembercﬁrecﬂytomakeadonationin

support ofProject Horizon and ending silence about sexual assault.

mm, 

WECCOME ?ﬂi.ﬂ£'.9V’T.S'!

Cemajairz. as Satzwdizy, ﬂfavenréer 1
Taste mane sgftﬁa ﬂeas Vﬁrgiaaia 
"isffiiiéa you ﬁrcrwse tfirmrgﬁ mar sﬁoyﬁaefnew items

ﬂooié Signing me we .s:uo

JEB ROOKS HE ' G—TUM HI
Fun times. Club Asia hosted the Asian Culture Fair at 2:00 p.m. on Sunday in the john
W Elrod University Commons. The event’s organizers say there was a lot of interest
from the students who came. Elements of Asian culture were represented. Martial arts,

video games and art were found in booths throughout the University’s Living Room.

Schedule of Parent’s Weekend events

Thursday, October 30th:

- Reading in the Commons Theatre by writer Harvest Beneﬁt at 7:00 p.m.
- Gallery Talk by Artist Marcus Alan Vincent at 7:00 p.m. in the Wﬂliauis School
— ‘Jeepers Creepers 2 will be shown in the Commons Theatre at 9:30 p.m.



Friday, October 31st:
gas: scar as .me.m?s’§m2*e
  
_   -
. as  
' ’ gage  ﬁre baartwsmting my
. =.¥.§:3%L‘ and deer .z.'§vs2'scs§s?§ anzs§wsa:3;~
‘§u?t$1i: uf ﬁtlaaexsa and i1»"‘£mw;ia>.it iifaaéézx
=:‘§x:ar: ﬁeyce were   ta:
 t§3:§rs  3'-«rat:

— Parents’ Weekend Choral Concert all day in Lee Chapel

- Annual Leybum Library Booksale begins at 8:30 a.m. andruns until November 4th at 8:30 am.
- The Film Society presents ‘“Ihe Devils Backbone” in the Elrod Commons Theatre at 7:30 p.m.
- Floumoy PLaywright Festival at 9:00 p.m. in the Johnson Theater at the Lenfest Center

Saturday, November 1st:

-Applied Music Recital in the duPont Auditorium at 10 a.m.

-Booksigning with author Richard McCaslin from 10 am. to 12 in the Elrod Commons Bookstore
-Parents Weekend Tailgate at the Law School Field with band 10 Spot from 1 1 :30 am. to 1 :00 p.m.
-The W&L Foorball team plays Bridgewater at 1:00 p.m. on the Wilson Field

-The Flournoy Playwright Festival in the Johnson Theater in the Lenfest Center at 2:00 p.m.
-The Film Society presents ‘The Devil’s Backbone’ at 7:30 in the Elrod Commons Theatre
- University Wind Ensemble Concert in the Keller Theatre in the Lenfest Center at 8:00 p.m.
—Flumey Playwright Festival at 8:00 p.m. at the Johnson Theatre in the Lenfest Center

 

PAGE 10

 

 RiNG—iiai Pat

THE AST ORD

MEGANMORGAN
AKlS&LlPEEDlIOR

EMAi;Mon;ANMB@mimU

MONDAY, OCTOBER 27, 2003

A glimpse into diversity at Washington and Lee Jniversity

BY KELLY Jo LARSEN
STAFF WRITER

Diversity at Washington and Lee. It’s be-
come a hot topic of debate in the last few years
since the Board took an official “Commitment
to Diversity.” Though I don’t think anyone
would argue that we rival the diversity of UC
Berkley, by any means, I believe we have more
diversity between these old white columns than
most people realize. In this column, each week I
will sit down with a student who is in a minority
at W&L and share with you a little about their
lives-who they are and what makes them unique.

Senior Seth Martin is a pre-med Biol-
ogy major from Bryn Mawr, Pennsylvania. Be-
yond his role as president of Beta and as a mem-
ber of the men’s tennis team, Seth serves as
president of Hillel, the Jewish students’ organi-
zation on campus.

Hillel is a national organization with over 500
chapters and centers world wide. The official
Hillel website (www.hillel.org) says the group
seeks to “maximize the number of Jews doing

Jewish with other Jews.” The Washington and
Lee Hillel seeks to meet this mission by pro-
viding not only religious, but social and cul-
tural support for Jewish students.

Worship can be difficult for Jewish stu-
dents on campus; the nearest synagogue is
either in Staunton or Roanoke. Since few col-
lege student can be truly expected to make
the weekly roadtrips that this would require,
Hillel serves as a supplemental religious out-
let. The group holds a Shabbat service every
month called “First Friday’s at Five.” Though
a rabbi has come to campus in the past, cur-
rently two students from the University of
Virginia come to lead the service. One of the
students brings his guitar with him, allowing
him to lead the songs that occur throughout
the service.

Since Washington and Lee does not can-
cel classes for Jewish holidays, Hillel also
serves as a way to recognize these celebra-
tions. Most recently, Hillel built a sukkah to
celebrate Sukkot, the Jewish harvest celebra-
tion. The Judaism follows a separate Jewish
calendar, and Hillel also celebrates the

I knew I had chosen the perfect place for the

“High Holy Days” of Rosh Hashanah, the Jew-
ish New Year, and Yom Kippur, the Day of Re-
pentance.

Seth points out that Judaism is as much a
culture as it is a religion. Hillel serves many so-
cial functions beyond its religious role. Every
month Hillel hosts “Very Interesting Professors,”
where the students meet for an informal dinner
at the Sheridan Livery with a Jewish professor
for discussion and relaxation. The students also
take one trip each year. During Seth’s freshman
year, Hillel went to the Holocaust Museum in
Washington, D.C. 'I\vo year’s ago they went ski-
ing at Snow Shoe, and last year they went to the
Homestead. These trips allow for Jewish stu-
dents to get to know each other better, reﬂect,
and most importantly, relax.

Seth is quick not to take credit for the re-
cent success of Hillel; he attributes the work of
Joan Robbins, Director of Hillel, with “getting
things up and running [because of her] things
have taken off in terms of events and the num-
ber of students involved.”

Recently Hillel has begun actively recruit-
ing Jewish prospects to campus. Last year they

close.

operated a phoneathon to check in with and
answer any questions for prospective Jewish

students. Washington and Lee has a long Jew- I

ish tradition; at one point there were two Jew-
ish fraternities on campus but the number of
Jewish students had dramatically fallen in re-
cent years. Hillel’s hard work paid off: there
are only six Jewish students in the Class of
2006, but seventeen in the Class of 2007.

While the he celebrates the growing
number of Jewish students on campus, Seth
stresses the need for communication be-
tween minority and mainstream students as
the real solution to diversity at Washing-
ton and Lee. “You can get as many Jewish
or minority students as possible but the in-
teraction is key, that in and of itself will in-
crease the numbers [of minorities] and the
diversity [of campus]. That’s part of the rea-
son all of our events are open to the stu-
dent body,” Seth said. Seth and the mem-
bers of Hillel invite all of the Washington
and Lee community to their events—for more
information on any of their activities email
hillel@wlu.edu.

False Cape, VA proves truly wonderful

BY HAYNES KING
TRAVEL EDITOR

beach while the second night I stayed at the site. The area
does have men’s and women’s pit toilets and potable water

On the other side of the park, approximately also

Reading Days break when I watched the fire-red sun rise
above the ocean while two dolphins jumped out of the
glistening water. Although it is about a five hour drive to
the coast, I suggest, if you have the time, that you visit
False Cape State Park.

On the east coast, False Cape State Park remains
one of the few completely untouched and undeveloped
coastal areas. The park is landlocked on the North by Back
Bay Wildlife Refuge; therefore, to reach the state park, one
can hike or bike on the seven mile gravel road through the
refuge. If you are up for the walk or ride, it will be well
worth your time. Along the way, I saw wild horses, an
osprey, a beaver, and a raccoon,

Once arriving at the park, a short mile takes you to
the beach side camp sites. A grouping of. four sites sits
behind the first row of dunes; however,,each camp site
has a corresponding area on the actual strand to sleep. I
stayed two nights in the park; the first night I slept on the

a mile walk from the start of False Cape is a completely
different camping environment. This area sits on the
back of the island on the bay. There is much more shade
at this area, but it would be tough to stay barefoot
through the trip. I, on the other hand, did not wear shoes
from the time I arrived at the camp site until the time that
I departed. Each site has a picnic table and post to hang
food. With a camping stove, it can be extremely difficult
to cook in sand, but if done correctly, one can have a
delicious meal. On my menu, we cooked pasta and
quesadillas.

To access the park, you have to park in
Sandbridge, VA and walk down the road to the entrance to
Back Bay Wildlife Refuge Directions are available upon
request.

All in all, 5 out of 5 tridents for False Cape Q

 

Washingtnn and Lee
Swing

Crime cheer fer Wash.izig2:.on and Lee,
We’re gtiing in win 2i§li.3€i3.€?§’ v.i.£:tory;
1: ..e White and Eiite we wiii ever wave in -trinniph,
§-int‘ ‘tits: ijriiversity. RAH? RAH? RARE
iiigitt in the finish we are with yrni,
‘iii:-:a'ir tixrnugii the line an every play;
Rust: the haii. rm. drawn the field
and we xxxiti win t.i§i:;~: gams. today;

Wiaen Wasliiiigt;::m and i...ee’s men {:43} in line,

Wa°re gcing to win agaizsi anntiier time;

Fm‘ W&L i yeii. I 3:-aii, Ii yet}
. .«’-‘ind for the ¥'..?niversity: iyaii, like he-iii
 .3’~..n:;i we xvii} fight? 'i’i.giiti fight! fat every yard;
Circle tin: emit: and hit that ﬁne; rigiit tiara?
And we wiii. mii. these W'ai’i:ti{z$ rm the sod?
Yes by Cindi '{{..$X.Z~i? ii’.Ai-ii RAHE

Tapered leg pants vs. collars up

Let me begin by saying that un-
der no circumstance is it ever ok
to wear boots with fur on the top;
EVER, just don’t do it.

\Vith that said, on with the
show:

M i r i a in
Webster defines
taper as becoming
smaller or thinner
toward one end; I define taper
as the worst thing to happen to
pants ever (well, except maybe
for stirrups). Pants with tapered
legs should be reserved for
women over the age of 40 with
three or more children.

For those of you who aren’t
quite sure just what a tapered leg
is you should listen up because
you’re probably the one wear-
ing these atrocities. Tapered

. legs get slimmer the entire length

of the pant to the ankle in a V-

FAsH1oNisTA’s

no ﬁgure. These pants are a trade-
mark of all dorks and some who
aspire to be cooler than dorks. If
you have any hopes of getting
anywhere in this world, get rid of
these pants.
Their keyhole
sized foot
holes only
serve to make
your feet look like ﬂippers.
Darkwing Duck you are not, so
throw these tight ankled treasures
to the trash in exchange for jeans
with at least a straight leg, if not a
pair with a bit of ﬂare at the end.

Basically if you are a college
student and wear tapered pants then
youdresslikecrapandariealoser.
STOP NOW and go shopping.

On the other end of the spec-
trum are the holier than thous who
wear their collar up. I’m not go-
ing to lie to you, I’m a fan of the

FURY

this simple touch and when it is
ok to ﬂip it up.

Never ever wear your collar
up on the bill. This look gives
you an elitist attitude that just
isn’t appropriate for class. Ad-
ditionally: Freshmen Girls- col-
lars down. Wait until winter
term, then and only after receiv-
ing a-sorority bid can you even
begin to think about wearing
your collar up. And even then it
is only appropriate on weekends
or when out for the evening.

Collars up are a status sym-
bol and if you have no status,
lowly freshmen girls, stop try-
ing to pretend you do.

Basically neither your ta-
pered jeans nor your collar up
can make you cool, we all know
it’s the price tag on your SUV
that determines that. But as far
as I’m concerned the following
list of recent fashion faux pas

just go to further some individu-
als ability to be sucked in further
and further by the great black hole
of suck that is their fashion sense

Please remove the following
from your things to wear to class
wardrobe:

- Extremely short pink pleated
skirts. If your thighs are touch-
ing below your hemline it’s WAY
too short.

- Stilettos - Really, please
stop.

— Big busted girls in really tight
shirts, just gross y’all

- Red suede pumps. As the
“Etiquette Grrls” put it ever so
cleverly, “red shoes are for chil-
dren and whores,” enough said.

Just look before you leap and re-
member to check that mirror be-
fore heading to class, because I'm

like fashion and are ﬂattering to

collar up. But here is my take on

watching, I’m always watching.

 

ITS

Q Congratulations to Afghanistan for sending
their first contestant to the Miss Earth pageant in
30 years.

Q If you’re still wearing a nametag at 35—years-
old, you’ve picked the wrong profession.

Q Ifby eligible, you mean toolish . . .

Q I mean it, the light in the old SPE house should
really be turned off.

Q More on the old SPE house: The fire alarm
went off this week. Did one of the squatters start a
fire to keep warm?

Q Graham-Lees first ﬂoor Commons side is jeal-
ous of Graham-Lees second ﬂoor Commons side.

(I) If you’re going use headphones with the vol-
ume so loud that the entire room can hear your
music, why bother with headphones at all?

<1) Pat and Pierce: Big Four or Bust!

Q Our resident fashionista should reveal her

name so we could all follow her good example. Un- ,

til we see proof of her style savvy, why should she
have the last word on what looks hot?

Q Who is Jeb Brooks?

(1) Best rivalry: The Weekly World News versus
The Trident

Q Please, no more puking in the Kappa Sig house.
Q Freshmen should not vomit in urinals, but
should deﬁnitely continue to vomit all over the halls
of off-campus Kappa houses.

Q‘ Jeb Brooks has not submitted the Quick Hits
referring to Jeb Brooks.

Q Why was the location of Pretty in Pink, a

Kappa, KD, Theta party, behind a Chi-O house?

I Q So, it turns out the Board punted on the calen-

dar decision. Schedule your sit-in for February 5, 6
and 7.

Q Pretty in Pink had so much potential, but of
course there were only two kegs for the entire
school. All I’m asking for is a damn srat party that
has enough beer, a fim band and nobody bitching
about cleaning up the mess. The fraternities do it
every weekend.

(I) Cultivate school pride: Learn the words to the
Washington and Lee Swing. See above.

(I) The mechanical bull at Chi Psi was awesome.
Who knew W&L had so many talented riders?

Q Watch out with the lights out: There has been
a spate of under-the-covers bitings around cam-
pus.

(1) Word is there are a lot of twins in the freshman
class. How many? Don’t know, but no doubt its an
even number.

(I) Eden Parks’ is the only person running in the
Senior EC Representative special election who was
also a Homecoming nominee. ’

(I3 Keep your parents in line this Friday night.
Jeb Brooks will be on a ride-along with the Lexing-
ton Police.

(I> Ring-tum Phi, stickeri burn!

Q Even though the Marlins won, this year’s
World Series was a total and complete disap-
pointment. Damn the Cubs and the Red Sox!

Q‘ Granted the srat house driving / parking situa-
tion is terrible, but some of the Kappas and KDs
headed to 8 and 10 Frank Parsons Way drive way
too fast.

Q Is there anything colored manila besides ma-
nila folders?

Q Yesterday was Priest Appreciation Sunday.
What did you do for your priest?

Q The portrait of John W. Elrod now hanging in
the Commons Room of the John W. Elrod Univer-
sity Commons, reportedly cost $50,000.

(I) Who is your favorite security officer? I like‘Rex.

Q Why doesn’t anybody dance the minuet any-
more?

Q Kudos to Caroline Crawford and Caroline
McKinney for making the College Republicans’
Oktoberfest a great time. And thanks to Hobes for
hosting.

Q E-mail your anonymous Quick Hits to
phi@wlu.edu.

 

X

 

J.

PATRICIA BALLANTYNE
STAFF WRITER

Washington and Lee decision makers have
hesitated to make a minor calendar change that
would protect students’ safety, despite advocat-
ing change in other recent issues that have been in
the limelight.

Last year, Cullum Owings died in a car acci-
dent on his return to school after Thanksgiving.
The traffic of I-81 on the busy Sunday after
Thanksgiving predominantly contributed to his
death. ,

The Washington and Lee administration has
focused on calendar issues other
than this, such as spring term and
the faculty teaching load and de-
laying students’ return from
Thanksgiving break has largely
been ignored.

Several administrators ini-
tially reacted toCullum’s accident
by talk of delaying students’ re-

We agreed that the
safety consideration is
important but could be

handled by students
returning on Saturday

 ASmNGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

NG-TUM

T/re rtr/derri mice of War/rirgton and Lee Urrirerrin time 7897

After accident, administration
may rethink student break time

Dittman said that starting school on a
Wednesday “doesn’t help those departments (sci-
ences, music) which really need that Monday after
Thanksgiving, especially because of the end—of-
term activities which can’t be accommodated merely
by adding a day in September.”

Provost Williams mentioned a possible T‘ues-
day through Saturday week after Thanksgiving
break as another alternative. “We have done this
in the past” he said, when students returned very
early in January from Christmas Break.

According to Provost Wiliarns, student con-
cerns and suggestions are appreciated, but the
most efficient method would be through an orga-
nized group, “This is not a closed
issue.”

Some colleges have adapted
their schedules so that students
avoid the horrible traffic on the
Sunday after Thanksgiving. VMI
begins classes on that Tuesday.

Baptist Bible Colege and Semi-
nary in Pennsylvania also begins on

turn. Former Provost Boetsch S "mesday Mmigan University in mi-
asked SCOH Dittman. the Regis- D nois changed their schedule to start
trar and previous head of the Re g- UNTVER-WIYREGUTRAR classes at 4 pm on Monday after two

istration and Class Schedule

Committee, to determine if a

change was possible. The committee discussed
calendar changes in emails, but they made no de-
cision and never presented the issue to the fac-
ulty.

“We recommended that the Provost not consider
a change to the calendar,” said Dittman. “We
agreed that the safety consideration is important
but could be handled by students returning on
Saturday.”

Provost Williams sees lots of options that
could prevent students from returning on the
heavily traveled Sunday after Thanksgiving. One
simple alternative would move the beginning of
school from Thursday to Wednesday and start
classes after Thanksgiving break on Tuesday. Stu-
dents would still have the same number of classes.

students died while returning to cam-
pus the Sunday after Thanksgiving.

Vﬁth so many cars on the road, driving is dan-
gerous anywhere the Sunday after Thanksgiving,
but the poor conditions on I-81 make this trip more
risky for W&L students.

I-81 is one of the top eight truck routes in
the U.S. Instead of the intended 15 percent truck
traffic, trucks now represent 20 percent to 40 per-
cent of the traffic in various areas. a _

Specifically, the Salem and Roanoke portion
of I-81 carries 50,000 to 52,000 vehicles daily, 2_1
percent of which are large trucks.

‘The traffic worsens closer to W&L. From
Roanoke to the I-64 juncture in Lexington, truck
congestion rises to 32 percent, and it increases
two percent more on the overlapping I-81 and I-64
section.

VOLUME 
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 2003

PEI

WE’RE FAMOUS!

What’s new? During a rare moment of peace over Parent’s Weekend, this mother took the time to catch
up on Washington and Lee news by reading the campus’ oldest newspaper, The Rzhg-tum P/Ji. Parents
were registering for Parent’s Weekend events and getting information about school activities such as

pmock con in the Elrod Commons Friday morning. We hope she enjoyed her Pbi-time.

 

 i<s/ ‘IT-IE -TUM PHI

University trying to keep peace with Lexington
as it beginsyet another construction project in town held Halloween

CHRIS LAUDERMAN
SENIOR STAFF WRITER

The Lexington Planning
Commission recently voted 3 to
1 to allow Washington and Lee
to continue with their plans for
the new art and music building.

“We want to have a posi-
tive relationship with the city.
This means going the extra mile
with the residents,” said Joe
Grasso, Vice President of Adniin-
istration. He went on to say that
this new relationship with the
city would be as partners, not
only in construction, but also in
the early stages when ideas are
formulated.

Washington and Lee has
formed the Construction Mitiga-
tion Committee that consists of a
representative from the Planning
Commission, two neighborhood
representatives; a representative
from the contractor and from the
University’s project management
team; and two representatives
from the University.

The Committee plans on
meeting monthly and has sev-
eral functions. The committee
will review construction mitiga-
tion plans, suggest additional
mitigation measures, provide
announcements to the neigh-
bors, schedule public meetings,
provide direct feedback to the
University on any non-compli-
ance issues on the part of the
contractor, facilitate coordina-
tion with the city, review the sta-
tus of requests submitted by
residents, prepare a quarterly re-
port to the mayor of Lexington
and President Burish, and pro-
vide a dispute resolution
mechanism.

“In order to provide the
neighbors of the Lenfest Center
with some assurance that the
University understands their

concerns and is committed to ad-
dressing these issues, we have
prepared a Construction Mitiga-
tion Plan to govern construction
activity for this project,” said
Grasso.

The Construction Mitigation
Plan strives to achieve several
goals. A construction traffic plan
will be developed to avoid the use
of some streets. Washington
and Lee will have traffic control
personnel around the project
when there is heavy construction
trafﬁc. They will direct tiafﬁc and
ensure workers are not using 10-
cal streets. ‘ T h e
University will assume the yearly
cost for a trafﬁc control person.
Traffic Control Ofﬁcers, when not
engaged with traffic, will provide
litter clean up, street clean up,
and minor property repair.

Construction workers will
park in a perimeter parking lot
away from the city. The Uni-
versity will provide a shuttle
service to the workers and is-
sue special parking stickers to
construction workers. Con-
struction trucks will be hosed
down periodically to reduce
dust. The University will repair
any damage to neighboring
properties that results directly
from the construction project.

Periodic meeting with
neighbors will be planned and
an Art and Music hotline will
be established where residents
can call one person at Wash-
ington and Lee to receive a
quick reply and reasonable re-
sponse.

The administration believes
the key to making sure that the
parking garage serves the needs
of the expanded Lenfest Center
is for the University to actively
manage, communicate, and en-
force its parking policies. T h e
University is letting Lenfest pa-
trons know that they should

 

JEB BRooi<s/ THE RiNc-TUM PHI

New building? The University plans to build a new arts and music
building near where this historic train station stands. A Construction
Mitigation committee has been formed to hear the concerns of the
residents of Lexington in regards to construction. Many possibilities,
such as a shuttle service and additional fees, are being considered as
possible options.

park in the garage for Lenfest
events.

It is expected that Wash-
ington and Lee will lose 60
parking spaces as a result of
the art and music addition.
They will, however, be re-
placed. The Mod Hall trailers
will be removed in 2006. This
will create 50 additional park-
ing spaces for the residents
of Woods Creek who now park
in the parking garage.

The University will look
into demolishing the Howe
Annex once the Art and Mn-
sic building is completed. ‘

willing to consider the creation
of a shuttle service that would
transport students and employ-
ees from parking lots to the carn-
pus. The final option being con-
sidered involves parking permits.
The University currently charges
students a $25 registration fee for
having a car on campus.
Washington and Lee may
place additional fees on cars or
on the use of the parking garage
which could discourage people
from using the garage or other
designated parking areas. The
University could also install
swipe cards and readers at the

This would create 10 new park- parking garage, but this may al-
ing spaces. Over the next two ter use patterns in a negative
years, the University will try , way.

None of these options are
official at this time, as they need
careful examination before imple-
mentation.

to identify and create a new
50 car parking lot somewhere
on campus.

Washington and Lee is

Freshmen dorms

carnival for Lex

CATHERINE SWAIN
STAFF WRITER

Tiny firemen, princesses, and pumpkins wandered the halls of
the freshman dorms Wednesday afternoon trick-or-treating as part
of a Halloween Carnival for local youth.

Alpha Phi Omega, the campus co—ed community service frater-
nity, and Nabors Service League joined forces to make this first
carnival a reality. APO was responsible for organizing and funding
the event, while Nabors helped with publicity in the community.

Both organizations helped provide volunteers on the day of
the carnival. About 15-20 students volunteered on the day of the
carnival, but many more were responsible for planning and public-

' ity before the actually event.

The idea for a Halloween carnival
had been brought up in the past, but
the service leagues were not able to

The youth or

make it a reality until this year. Lexington is 3
APO President Laura Drewicz came group I think is

up with initial idea of a carnival for local

youth, and Nabors had wanted youth really undﬁrserved‘

to trick-or-treat in the dorms, so the two LAURA DREWKZ

organizations joined forces to put on one
large event.

“The youth of Lexington is a group I think is really
underserved,” said Drewicz.

Activities included pumpkin painting, face painting, a duck
pond, and a costume contest. The costume contest included

three age groups and had over 45 participants.

“All of the kids were adorable. One little boy came as a day-old
piece of pizza, and we had a young George Washington, Jack Spar-
row, and a lot of fairy princesses. It was so tough to choose the
winners!” said costume judge Robin Davis.

In addition to activities in the quad, volunteers also led chil-
dren through the dorms, where freshmen provided candy to eager
trick-or-treaters.

Approximately 50-60 children were in attendance along with
their parents and older siblings. Many neighborhood children came
for the event, as well as many professors’ children.

Both organizations were pleased with the high turnout, espe-
cially considering that Lexington businesses were also doing nick-
or-treating at the same time.

“I hope that APO and Nabors can continue this and make it a
new Lexington and W&L Halloween tradition. It’s just nice to give
back to the town that gives W&L students so much and to be able
to help out (even if for only one afternoon) the youth of Lexington,”
said Drewicz.

Last year, there was trick-or-treating in the freshmen dorms for
children of professors and of the community, but this marked the
first such major event held by N abors and APO

 

  

W‘~‘*?3*‘*itr§*7a~   uriarraqsiry

“P “ '7’-,*.J

friov o 

 

PAGE 2

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 2003

N ‘:si£:l?.rs‘-:>':*..:.\:l’=—i

SPCA provides students service time Students and faculty

BY SARAH MURRAY
STAFF WRITER

It’s almost impossible to stem the ﬂood of incoming cats at the
Rockbridge County SPCA, but that doesn’t stop executive director

Jane Cornett from trying.

“We’ve distributed $32,000 in spay/neuter cer-
tiﬁcates since 1998,” said Comett. “But it doesn’t

seem to have made any difference.”

Cats are only a part of the responsibility of the
Rockbridge Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to
Animals, which moved to its current location in 1993.
This non—proﬁt organization concerns itself with “the
welfare of all animals, both domestic and wild, in the

community.”

Like many other local shelters, Rockbridge’s
SPCA receives no state fimding. However, local fimd-

Because of all the coon
hunting and bear
hunting the county, we
get a large number of

Any animal over 5 years of age very seldom ﬁnds an adoptive home
and may be put down to prevent overcrowding.

Khady Mbaye, ‘05, co-founder of a new W&L group meant to
organize aid for the SPCA, said, “Everything possible is done to
avoid having to put the dogs down. For example, some dogs are
given obedience training.”

Cornett, who has worked at the shelter since it
occupied its former location in downtown Lexing-
ton, has grown accustomed to the effect of the area’s
culture on the facility. “Because of all the coon hunt-
ing and bear hunting the county, we get a large num-
ber of hounds...about 65% of our dogs,” she said.

Since the SPCA depends on help from the public,
there are several opportunities to support the center.

hounds Donations are always accepted, and for $25 patrons
JANE CORNETI‘ may choose to sponsor a pet’s webpage with their
SPCA _ gift. In fact, the SPCA’s home site is maintained by

ing from Lexington, Buena Vista, and Rockbridge
County covers approximately 75% of its functioning
cost. Its services include public education, sheltering unwanted or
stray animals, animal adoption, enforcement of county ordinances,
and “humane disposition” of unadopted or injured animals.

SPCA is a member of the Virginia Federation of Humane Societ-
ies, which includes nearly all local shelters and SPCAs as well as
newer ‘trap-spay-release’ programs designed to limit the prolifera-

tion of the wild cat population.

940 dogs and 1161 cats were brought to the shelter last year.
Only 72% of dogs and 18% of cats were adopted or returned to their
owners. The only requirements for adoption are a 24-hour waiting
period and state-mandated neutering. The neutering, along with
vaccinations and worming, is included in a $50 adoption fee.

Last year, 1,066 animals were humanely destroyed. The shelter
does not keep unhealthy, wild, pregnant animals, or any animals that
have been brought in because of behavioral problems such as biting.

Pro-Bone-O: W&L Law Students for Happy Animals.

According to Pro’-Bone-O founder Michael
Adamson, the group updates rockbridgespca.org every month and
also holds fundraisers for the shelter. Adamson estimates that Pro-
Bone-O has raised $2000 among the law community since its concep-
tion in 2001.

Bethany Catron, ‘O5, a Service Day volunteer, was impressed
with the organization. “The SPCA workers do a great job of dealing
with the constant inﬂux of animals,” she said. “Almost all of the
animals I saw would make wonderful pets.”

Sara Duckworth, ‘06, “just showed up on a whim?’ to volunteer.
‘‘It seemed like a great idea,” said Duckworth. “I loved it and I’d do
it again in a heartbeat.”

Volunteers may bathe and exercise animals whenever the center
is open. “They can definitely use all the help they can get,” said
Catron. The Rockbridge County SPCA is located off Route 1 1 at 10
Animal Place.

Washington and Lee’s Hidden Heroes:

Senior Brandon Waddell, is the ﬁrst of a series in The Ring-tum Phi’s regular feature, ‘Hidden Heroes’

Brandon Waddell ’04 is a
student who’s had countless
achievements and been involved
with several organizations in and
out of the university in several
different forms. Waddell is an En-
glish/Theatre double major, and
is currently working on honors
theses for both.

Freshmen may remember him
as the illustrious “Reefer Man”,
from orientation
week’s Life.‘
Pieces of the
Puzzle presen-
tation; upper-
classmen prob-
ably know him from one of the
many performances he has been
in, including Dr. Jeckyl and Mr.
Hyde, Spinning into Butter, and
the yearly performances of
Stonewall Country done at the
Lime Kiln Theater.

Waddell is also a chamber
singer, involved in the Mustache
Society, and performs in a local
folk rock band. He describes him-
self as, “not your average fellow.”

Waddell wrote his ﬁrst poem
at age six and has been actively
occupied with this art form ever
since. He describes his entry into
acting starting as a way to pur-
sue a girl, and eventually found
that he really enjoyed it.

Waddell camevto Washing-
ton and Lee with the desire to be
a theatre major, but originally he
had planned to double—major in
history and not English.

   

ABA competition
at law school in Nov

Washington and Lee’s School of Law
will be hosting the American Bar
Association’s Regional Negotiation Com-
petition on November 15-16. The Competi-
tion is intended to help students develop

practical legal skills.

In this competition, teams of two stu-
dents will be given the opportunity to suc-
cessfully resolve a sports law problem.

The November event will bring 40 stu-
dents from 10 law schools across the South-
east to W&L’s School of Law, as well as
almost 40 local and area attorneys to judge

the three rounds.

HIDDEN HEROES
JORDAN ANDERsON’07

Despite the change, he still
enjoys history and mentions the
Chinese and Japanese History
courses he took here with Pro-
fessor Jeans to have been some
of his favorite classes.

He also mentioned Professor’
Wheeler’s Modern Poetry class
as a favorite. When asked about
what he likes and dislikes about
W&L, he asserted that the most
impressive thing
he had noticed
was that there
are “really tal-
ented professors
who know what
they are talking
about,” and he encourages ev-
eryone to take at least one class
in every department to get a feel
for the diversity of studies and
to broaden one’s horizons.

He also mentioned, however,
that in his four years many as-
pects of W&L life still resemble
that of “high school without par-
ents.”

Waddell’s long-terrn goals
are to attend graduate school
and eventually become a profes-
sor and writer.

His upcoming future goals
consist of completing his two
theses and his rigorous course
load this term, and then prepar-
ing for study abroad with the
Thomas J . Watson Fellowship,
a competitive program that
awards and allows students to
study for a year and work on

 
 

istration.

intentionally left blank.

Editor’s Note: The article entitled
“New renovations now planned for
the Freshmen Dorms,” should have
had a separate paragraph for the
V quote regarding summer camps by
Joe Grasso, Vice President for Admin-

Editor’s Note: The correct outcome
of the faculty vote was 90-79-1 with
90 in favor of the l2-12-6 and 1 ballot

individual projects internation-
ally.

Waddell will be performing
this upcoming season in the
Flournoy Playwright Festival,
as well as in Metamorphoses.

The Hidden Heroes column
aims at highlighting Washington
and Lee students who exemplify
the best of what we have to offer:
Students, please nominate your
friends by emailing phi @wlu. edu.

ﬁnd CAIR Resources
‘lmparlial 3rd party source’

BY IMRAN NAEMULLAH
CONTRIBUTING EDITOR

Among the various re-
sources available to Wash-
ington and Lee students who
need assistance with per-
sonal matters, Confidential
and Impartial Resolution
(CAIR) Resources is a fairly
recent program implemented
last year to address issues of
discrimination, harassment,
and sexual misconduct.

Its participants are merely
unbiased mediators; they are
there to assist those who are
victims of discrimination, ha-
rassment, and sexual miscon-
duct, and those who are ac-
cused of it.

According to the CAIR
website, it can assist students
in understanding the
University’s policy regarding
discrimination, harassment,
and sexual misconduct; it helps
explain your options for further
action; facilitate communica-
tion between the accused and
the accuser; and provide dis-
pute resolution services.

Examples of acts qualify-
ing for CAIR assistance could
include everything from unwel-
come comments by a professor
to alleged discrimination when
applying for a University-spon-
sored job to a conduct by a
University employee that makes
a student feel uncomfortable.

CAIR is not meant to re-
place the Student-Faculty
Hearing Board, University
mediators, the deans, the resi-
dence life staff, or any other
University resource.

Instead, its aim is to be
an impartial, confidential
third-party source. Its partici-
pants have been selected to
represent a broad array of the
University community, with
the goal being that th'ere
should be at least one person
who is a CAIR contact whom
a student feels comfortable
getting in touch with.

The Head of CAIR Re-
source is C. Elizabeth
Belmont, a law professor, and
there are 9'other resource
contacts, including two non-
faculty members.

Anyone who wishes to
obtain further information
on the CAIR program, or
who wants to discuss an is-
sue applicable to the CAIR
program, should call 458-
5800.

Alternatively, for those
wishing to directly contact a
CAIR participant to initiate
the complaint resolution pro-
cess, they can see the list of
participants at http://
campuslife.wlu.edu/
Student%2OAffairs/
cair_resources.htm, or refer
to the posters located around
campus.

you.

Sincerely,
Helen Hughes

Dear Washington and Lee Community,

There seems to be some confusion and questions on how the
Executive Committee of the Student Body determined the suc-
cession of officers. The procedure came from the EC’s Consti-
tution. The last time it was a public document was in 1996. The
Constitution has never been repealed. In a time that we needed
it most, the Executive Committee turned to it.
The Constitution reads, “In the event that the President of the
Student Body leaves during the year, the Vice President shall
take his place and the Secretary shall move to fill the Vice-
President’s spot. The Senior Representative who received the
most votes during the general election shall become Secretary.
The order of succession speciﬁed above shall apply for the
positions of Vice President and Secretary of the Student Body.”
In accordance with the succession of officers, Anne J ohansen
‘O5, previously Executive Committee Secretary, is now the Vice
President. Cullen Carter ’04, previously a Senior Class Repre-
sentative to the Executive‘Cominittee, is now the Secretary.
There will be a class election on Tuesday, October 28, for one
Senior Class Representative to complete the Committee.
The Constitution is currently under review by the Executive
Committee. We plan on having an open forum to hear any
input the community may have before amending the docu-
ment. I hope this clears up the confusion and questions. Thank

Executive Committee President

  rirsrentrsn avatar Rnns,suvls litttl at 

feet of

shift.
eairt fully explain it.

 

Seats fire, has 53 eizélzie

RG3 FED 59383, and

is airaitahte with 18% he

8-speed manual
Even evolution

arm llI}’I'(lI§.l§{lTC8  l.£3.ﬁt.. lltﬂ  LEE

 Nil: All}  FE; Eltilliﬂﬁﬁ I33.
ltliﬁ leiﬁliﬁﬁ  klﬁ ﬁﬁﬂfiﬂttl 
 Elli‘; ilitliﬁﬁ l’iﬁ§ full‘! ‘zlrﬁi.

4

 

 

 

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 2003



Parents deserve shuttle service

When considering Homecoming,
Alumni Weekend and Parents’ Week-
end, we see an egregious example of
inequality. For the alumni-focused
events, shuttles are offered to all points.
There is convenient transportation pro-
vided by The University. During Par-
ents’ Weekend, however, this is not the
case. The University must begin pro-
viding transportation around Lexington
during Parents’ Weekend.

Parents are unquestionably an in-
tegral part of the school’s budget. They
pay tuition and take active roles in the
lives of their children. Why can’t the
school spring for some type of shuttle
system for the event? May we sug-
gest the tennis bus, parked by the
Duchossois Tennis Center for the
weekend? The higher-ups pull it out
for the Board of Trustees and the Al-
ums. The parents are just as vital to
the school as those constituencies.

There would be fewer parents
given DUIs if The University would
step up to the plate on this issue. Trav-
eller is not designed for the inﬂux of
parents that this weekend brought. It
can barely handle the undergraduate
campus. We are sure that many par-
ents may have needed the system as a
result of their good-times, but it needed
to be shored up by something else.

Though we have no concrete
numbers to back us up, we have
heard that the administration pays
less for Parents’ Weekend than
Homecoming or Alumni Weekend.
One main reason for the discrepancy
is the lack of a University sponsored
shuttle system.

Quite simply, a shuttle system
would relieve strain on the City of Lex-
ington during this Washington and Lee
event and keep‘ studentsnand parents
safer and happier. ‘

 

“Let us at all times remember that
regardless ofparty, 
are brothers and sisters of a common
country, and shOI11d dwell togetherinthe
bonds offratemal feeling,”

~Abraham Lincoln,
16th President Of the United States

"’,‘5HlE'i<3'1--.'\' my LE5 l.IsIIIr.:.<rr~:
‘IIIE G—TUM HI

Editor in chief Jeb Brooks

T}-{E3 iill‘€G—~Ti,‘:',:"rE for

  

CAIErANDEIsON
OPINIONS EDIIOR

FNNLANDEIso\O@wIuE)II

  PINIONS

Bush needs to turn over 9-11 papers now

PAGE 3

PHOTO COURTESY OF white/youregou

RUNNING FROM’I'HE'I'RU'I'H. President Bush meets with the National Security Council following Bush’s post—September llth address to the nation in 2001.

President Bush’s war on terrorism has had its ups and downs. A con-
quered Iraq is no longer under the control of Saddam Hussein, but on the
other hand, soldiers and civilians alike continue to die. Afghanistan and its
people are free from the religious fundamentalism of the Taliban, but the
country, despite U.S. intervention, still languishes in inadequate infrastruc-
ture and poverty. We’ve proved that Marine Expeditionary Forces can expel
governments, but we’ve also proved that they can’t do nation-building. But
the most important catalyst of the war on terror has its own ups and downs.
After September 11th, domestic security has improved to some degree, but
on the other hand, the White House continues to hide the whole truth of what
happened that day.

For those unfamiliar with the issue, a Federal government commission
was appointed to investigate the entire series of events

the commission needs. To avoid this possible political nightmare, President
Bush must turn over the documents now. Further refusal to disclose the full
truth, regardless of whether or not it makes the President look bad, will give
the appearence of complicity. Even if President Bush is completely innocent
in this matter, he will still gamerjustiﬁed criticism if he refuses to turn over the
documents, and he will further tarnish an already cynical public view of the
government, and in particular of the presidency.

Kean has noted that the only thing he is allowed to say about the docu-
ments in question is that they are intelligence reports given to the President
just prior to the attacks. Given that the President does not want us to see
them, it’s pretty easy to infer what these reports are. In fact, I can probably
venture a guess that one of them is a report that many political analysts were

not sure even existed until now— an August 2001 report from

involved in the 9-11 attacks shortly following the attacks MODERATE’S MUSINGE the Central Intelligence Agency that contained speciﬁc warn-
themselves. For two years, this commission has attempted ‘ ings that Al Qaeda would try to hijack U.S. passenger aircraft
to get critical executive documents related to the attacks CALEY ANDERSON  and use them to destroy high—prof1le U.S. buildings and infra-

 

from President Bush and his administration. It has been the
decision of the President not to release these documents, despite the re-
peated protests of the commission and a few of its members, ex-U.S. House of
Representatives member Tim Roemer (D—Ind.) and commission Chairman Tho-
mas Kean, former Republican governor of New Jersey, are beginning to be-
come aggravated. During an October 28th speech, Roemer said “We are
losing patience with an administration and a White House that is not fully
cooperating and getting us information we need.” The commission, which is
comprised of both Democrats and Republicans, has made a unanimous reso-
lution demanding access to the documents in question from President Bush.

The White House, which has produced over 2 million pages of docu-
ments related to the 9-11 attacks, has refused to turn over many of them, for
reasons unknown to anyone except President Bush and his staff. The com-
mission has responded by threatening to subpoena the documents.

The parallel to Watergate is obvious. The content of the documents is
not nearly as important as the fact that the White House is stonewalling. It
would be incredibly disruptive if President Bush ended up in a courtroom
showdown with his own commission over his refusal to turn over the papers

structure.

Would the fact that this report went apparently ignored make the White
House look bad? Yes, but only a little. There were and are lots of reports
about potential threats from terrorists that circulate through the White House,
and most of them never happen. So while President Bush would take a hit
from revealing the documents, he would take a far worse hit if he hid them and
stonewalled the commission until he finally had to own up and face them in
court, where he would lose. _

President Nixon was not guilty of the Watergate break-in, many modern
historians now believe he didn’t even know about it until briefed many days
later. But he was still justly forced out of ofﬁce, because he refused to give
the American people the whole, untarnished truth. If he had stepped up and
acknowledged the guilty parties, while disassociating himself with them, he
would have been fine. But instead he chose to completely hide everything,
and he refused to cooperate with inquiries into the matter. In the end, this, not
the Watergate break-in itself, ruined Nixon. President Bush faces a similar
choice: hand over the documents or face a high—proﬁle attempt to wrench
them away. One can only hope he makes the right choice.

Clinton conspiracy behind Dems’ primary

Assistant Editor Kyle Wass
News Editor Erin Julius
Opinions Editor Caley Anderson
Arts & Life Editor Megan Morgan

Photography Editor Cody Gabbard

Asst. Sports Editors John Hyland

Chad Kiewiet de Jonge
Hilary Henry

Emily Edwards

Alexa Moutevalis
Kate Zawyrucha
Sarah Beth Campbell
Vanessa Arness
Aubry Miner

Production Assistants

Copy Editors

Editorial Director Katie J. Howell

Business Manager Paul Seifert
Circulation Director Henry G;-imball

Distribution Dir. Thomas Worthy
The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during

the undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee ’

University, Lexington, Virginia The Ring-tum Phi is a
member of The Publications Board, but is otherwise
independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible sub-
missions and letters. All submissions must be e-mailed
to phi@wlu.edu or in the University Center mailbox by
5 p.m. Friday to appear in the following week's edition.
The Ring-tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions
for content and length. Letters and columns do not
necessarily reﬂect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi
Editorial Board. Advertising does not reﬂect the opin-
ions of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper
observes current court deﬁnitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
University Commons Rm. 341
Washington and Lee University

Lexington, Virginia 24450

Telephone: (540) 458-4060
Fax: (540) 458-4059
Email: phi@wlu.edu

Bill Clinton is at it again. He just can’t
seem to stay out of the public eye. At a recent
party in New York City, Bubba was overheard
saying that the only two “Democratic stars”
are his wife and Wesley Clark.

This statement comes at a time when the
Democratic party is in a sad state of affairs
and has no candidate with a strong enough
support base to defeat President
Bush in the 2004 election.
Bubba’s intention is grossly evi-
dent. He is trying to fracture the
moderate base of the Democratic
party by promoting a candidate like Wesley
Clark to steal votes from other moderate can-
didates like Joe Lieberman, John Kerry, Dick
Gephardt, and John Edwards. With the mod-
erate base so split, the activists and grassroots
supporters of Howard Dean will ensure wins
in many of the primary states, with far less
than a majority of the votes.

Now why would Bubba want to disrupt
the campaigns of the moderate Democrats?
The answer is simple. He is playing a game
with the American citizens to put his wife in
the most favorable position to win.the 2008
Presidential election. Let me give you my opin-
ion on how the 2004 Democratic primary sea-
son will play out.

Currently, Howard Dean is the leader in funds
donated for his primary run. He has utilized a
grassroots internet campaign to take a dominant
position in fundraising. The moderate candidates
have relied on the more traditional approach of
direct mail and public fundraising events. How-
ever, noneof the moderate Democratic candidates

   

have received contributions from large donors
of the Democratic party. The reason behind this
is that the big supporters have waited for a
clear frontrunner to emerge.

By throwing Wesley Clark into the mix,
with Clinton’s de facto backing, large donors
have started to support Clark’s campaign. This
has put even greater stress on the moderate
candidates. Without the
money to get their message
out to the public, they rely
heavily on evening sound
bites from major news organi-
zations. With other moderate candidates
marginalized, what has become of Wesley
Clark’s message?

Could anyone possibly decipher his opin-
ion on any major issue? He vacillates from
side to side and seems to have no true'posi-
tion on anything. And who are his advisers
helping him to craft his message? None other
than some of Bubba Clinton’s old trusted po-
litical aids. Boy, politics is surely a dirty busi-
ness. In the first three presidential nomina-
tion contests (primaries in Iowa, New Hamp-
shire, and South Carolina), Dean is leading or
close to the lead, based on recent polling. VV1th
Wesley Clark sucking the money out of the mod-

SLICE ON LIFE
NICK MANNINO ‘O7

ierate base, Dean will steamroll through the pri-

maries on his way to the Democratic nomination.
And when that happens, Bubba will have
achieved his goal.

A radically liberal Democrat will face Presi-
dent Bush in the 2004 presidential election. Re-

‘ sults will be similar to the Democratic debacles

of 1972 (Nixon/McGovem) and 1984 (Reaganl

PI-roro COURTESY OF tea:/Jpol tcbj. edu
Ex-PRESIDENT rwr. Former President Bill Clinton

Mondale). When this happens, the Democrats will
be inclined to move their ideals toward a more mod-
erate, mainstream thinldng, supporting candidates
who are more palatable to the general populous.

Coincidentally, this description seems to ﬁt,
why, yes, you guessed it, Hillary Clinton perfectly.
Thus, the conspiracy becomes perfectly clear.
Hillary for President in ‘O8. Wow, how ironic.

So, good ole‘ Bubba, the maestro behind the
scenes, is conducting a Democratic orchestra to
that down home Arkansas tune: Clinton before
all.

 

    

PAGE 4



I used to tout that appearances didn’t matter because I didn’t want to seem superﬁcial. But deep
down inside, I really did care about appearances to a degree. I used to think that people who cared
about their own appearances and the appearances of others were outrageously shallow, but I have
changed my mind—somewhat. I dated a guy once who had a pretty laid back style and pretty much
wore the same outﬁt every single time I saw him: a wrinkly plaid shirt that was somewhat tucked into
a pair of wrinkly khaki pants. On a day-to-day basis, I really could care less about what he wore, but
what bothered me about his appearance was that he never changed it up when we went out for a
special occasion or a date. It wasn’t that his outﬁt bothered me but it was the fact that he had put in
no effort to prepare for our outing. That lack of effort to me translated into a lack of consideration for
me. He could see that I had taken the time to primp and complimented me for it, but I
could not say the same for him because he had done nothing to improve his appear-_
ance. That, to me, was insulting. ’

So then I came to realize that I do indeed care about appearances and found a
justiﬁcation for other people’s concerns for appearances as well. It wasn’t that I was
shallow. I merely wanted to see that my date had made some kind of effort for me
because I had done the same for him. Special occasions call for special behavior—it’s what makes the
occasion so special. Otherwise, it’s just a normal, everyday occurrence that means nothing. Along the
same line, primping also shows respect. When I primp for a date or for any “special” occasion, I do it
out of respect for the guy, because if I look good, then he will look good. And the same applies for the
guy. If he looks nice, then I will too. You’ve heard the phrase your team is only as strong as your
weakest member. Well, in this case, the couple looks only as nice as the sloppiest person.

And as much as you may want to ignore it, the fact is that looks do matter because they deﬁne you
as a person. If you look sloppy, most people will think you’re a sloppy person, not just organization-
ally but maybe in other aspects of your life. You have sloppy habits. You make sloppy decisions. You
do sloppy work. Slop, slop, slop. And none of us walk around saying we want our friends and our
potential mates to be slops. You want someone who is kind, funny, intelligent, and consideraie, but

 
 

  

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 2003

Why you need to pay attention to your appearence

Now, that doesn’t mean that looks are the most important quality in a person because
they definitely aren’t. There are plenty of beautiful people who immediately become the
most ugly people once you get to know them because of their attitudes. But the reality is
that looks do matter and looks are the only representation people have of you when they
first meet you. It is just not possible to walk around with a sandwich board listing all of
your wonderful qualities so people will only judge you for who you are and not what you
look like.

A lot of people seem to think that looking good costs money and that it’s just not
financially possible to look nice, but that is not the case. Maintaining a good appearance

does not mean that you must wear a $300 outfit. Itjust means taking the time

TRAIN OF THOUGHT to simply groom and look neat. You just need to look as though you have put

some kind of effort into what you’re wearing rather than throwing on some old
outfit lying on the floor and walking out the door. That means wearing some-
thing clean and combing your hair.

But most importantly, you should take the time to look nice for you. First of all, I love
getting ready in the morning because it is such a stress reliever. It is almost as important
as my cup of coffee. I find that when I wake up too late and don’t have an hour to shower,
dry my hair, and mess with my hair and makeup, I am usually ﬂustered for the entire day.
Getting ready every morning calms me down. Another thing about looking good is that it
makes you feel good. Looking good is an empowerment mechanism. It increases your
confidence level and just enables you to deal with your anxieties more effectively. And
lastly, how you look affects how people will perceive you, and you should care about that.
You will seldom have the chance to know every person you meet in depth so that they can
get beyond your appearances. More often than not, your appearance is all they have to
remember you by. If you look nice, people will have one perception of you. And if you look
bad, people will have another perception of you. So decide how you want to be remem-

nowhere on this wish list of qualities you want in a friend or mate is sloppiness.

bered and dress yourself accordingly.

Neither yankees nor rebels, we!’ re all just Generals

BLUE , WHITE, AND SHADES OF GRAY. Lexington circa 1864, the year that Union and Rebel troops really did roam the streets, and Union General David Hunter ordered the Virginia Military Institute burnt to the ground.

I’m an American. More speciﬁcally, I’ m from
Texas. Does that make me from the South? I
don’t know and I certainly don’t care. I don’t
speak with anaccent. Idespise the “word” y’all.
In fact, I’m~~annoyed at the fact that a squiggly
red line didn’t just appear under “y’all” when I
typed it, because it’s not a word and if the dic-
tionary says it is then it should no longer be the
authority in proper diction! I’m no Southern
Belle and the only degree I’m here to get is in
English.

I had always viewed Virginia as being part
of the Northeast. And from all the way down in
Texas, it seemed like practically part of New En-
gland. The states up here are just so much
smaller and closer together than I’m accustomed
to. You could drive for ten hours without leav-
ing Texas but the same distance from Virginia
would practically get you to Canada. What, you
are asking yourself, is my point? I’m getting tired

Letter to the Editor

of hearing all of this North/South business. I
don’t think any less of anyone from the north
and would never dream of calling them a Yan-
‘kee. We have students here from 41 different
countries; everywhere from Hong Kong to Ni-
geria to Finland, or Finalnd according to the
current course catalogue. (Finally, there’s that
little red squiggly line. Where were you when I
needed you before?) But
you’d almost think there
were 42 countries repre
sented here at Washington
and Lee, by drawing the dis-
tinction between the Northern and Southern
United States. Can’t we just be from one united
nation? Can’t we please all just get along?

I appreciate history more than the average
person. I could even sit through hours of Civil
War documentaries and find it enjoyable. I
really like the music in them, too: so haunt-

ingly beautiful yet quaint. I’ve read Lee: The
Last Years and appreciate the unique history
of our school and the fact that we have a
whole section devoted to the Civil War gen-
eral in our bookstore. Only in Lexington, Vir-
ginia could such a thing occur. Robert E. Lee
was undoubtedly a heroic figure and I chal-
lenge any non-believers to researchtthe mat-

_________________________________________________ _. ter before they say any differently.
THE BIG PICTURE

ANNE FINLEY ‘07

A brief history: he freed his father
in law’s slaves before the law de-
manded it, was asked to lead the
Northern Army by Lincoln but de-
clined because he couldn’t abandon his home
state of Virginia, and fought for unity and
tolerance after the end of the war. Oh yeah,
and don’t forget Washington; he was a good
guy too. (Wait. What did he do again? Was
he in the Civil War too? Which side?) ~

Yet it is important to remember that the

Civil War is over. It should only hold a his-
torical significance for us today. Must we
identify our classmates with the side they
would belong to if the Civil War should un-
expectedly start up again? And must we put
confederate ﬂags on our dorm windows and
car bumpers?

Besides the fact that it is now widely
used by white supremacy groups as a sym-
bol of racism and oppression, it changes how
we are viewed. If we want to attract diver-
sity, (and we all should), then we need to
start projecting our school as what it is: a
national, private, liberal arts university.

So, let’s just be Nigerian, Chinese,

Finalndian, and American. We’re not Yankees

and Rebels anymore. In fact, unless anyone
among us has been alive since 1865, we never
were.

Baseball not a dying game

Dear Editor,

I noticed that the author, Caley Anderson
(“Baseball: dying sport with few cures,” October
27), rnisleads the readers by making baseball seem
to be decreasing in popularity. According to the
Associated Press, “ratings for the first three games
of the World Series” have risen for the first time
since 1999.

The postseason’s overall rating increased
40% from 2002. Both Game Sevens of the LCS were
the “highest-rated nights of primetime program-
ming” so far this year. The Division Series had
record playoff audiences.

The ﬁnal game of the World Series may not
have had as many television viewers as the last
Superbowl, but take into consideration that the
Superbowl is one game — whereas the World
Series can last up to seven. I witnessed sev-
eral of the playoff games at Frat houses these
past few weeks, and even brothers who admit-

ted to not—liking baseball stated the playoffs
were exciting.

Football may ban “l4 perforrnance—enhancing
drugs that are freely allowed in baseball,” but I am
pretty sure that less than 50% of baseball players
do not do cocaine or heroine (as opposed to foot-
ball players who do). Possibly a slight exaggera-
tion—but my point is made.

Anderson also accuses baseball of having the
same teams win over and over. Well since 1990,
there have been 8 different champions in baseball
and 9 in football—not a very big disparity there.

Next complaint by the author: baseball is try-
ing to replace umpires with robots. That could
possibly be an exaggeration. I’m sorry, I have a
question. Does instant replay not require elec-
tronics?

Finally, he suggests the players should stand
up and take salary cuts to save baseball. I agree
with this point, but perhaps Terrell Owens should
set a good example by doing so in the NFL.
Sincerely, '

Sam Kello ‘O7

Anderson’s response-

Ist- It’s not misleading or incorrect to
say that baseball’s popularity has dra-
matically declined. True, the 2003 World
Series was significantly more popular than
the 2001 article, but this can be attrib-
uted to fan attention to what will be an
increasingly rare spetacle- underdog,
small market teams beating larger; richer
teams. I'd be willing to bet more unique
viewers watched the Super Bowl last year
than watched Games I through 7. I can ’t
prove this, no one can, but it’s common
sense, considering that a sitcom can beat
out baseball's biggest seven games.

2nd- Saying that half offootball uses
cocaine or other illegal drugs is far more
than a slight exaggeration. I’m not say-
ing, as ex—All Star Ken Caminiti did, that
steroids and illegal performance enhanc-
ers are omnipresent in baseball, nor am I
saying that football is a stellar example
ofpristine, drug-free athletes. What I’m

doing is comparing NFL and MLB policy.
The NFL bans and enforces the bans on cer-
tain substances, the MLB does not.

3rd— Only one more team has made it to
the Big Show in football than in baseball.
But this is a deceptive stat. Let’s look at a
more accurate statistic, the playoffs. In the
NFL, only two teams, including the expan-
sion Cleveland Browns, have not made it to
the playoffs in 1990. In baseball, five times
that many teams have not made it, simply be-
cause they can ’t afford it. This illustrates my
point far better.

4th- There is a HUGE difference between
using electronics in instant replay to help
oﬁicials, and replacing oﬁicials altogether
with electronics. I think this point is obvi-
ous enough that it needs no explanation from
me.

5th- Terrell Owens doesn’t NEED to
lower his salary. His yearly salary-
$4.2 million. Alexander Rodriguez’s—
$25.2 million. Enough said, really.

$'l’S'l'RAVEI..€0M

   

Write for the Phi- E—mail phi @wlu. edu or call x4060

  
    
    

 
  

55!! ray‘, 2". cuts; ca {.52
Flow mung Ozrtampus Raps

 
  
   

W&L

Future Trophy Wives Club

I\I

Contact

Erin‘ Johnson at johnsoner@wlu.edu

 

#1 Spring Break Vacations!

Cancun, Jamaica, Acapulco, Bahamas,
Mazatlan, Florida, SPadre. 110% Best Prices!
Book Now & Get Free Parties & Meals!
Group Discounts, Now Hiring Campus
Reps! 1-800-234-7007
endlesssummertours.com

 

  

JOHNHYLAND
AssrrANrSi>oris FDIIOR
FMAll:HYlAND]@WllJ.EDU

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 2003

'l'l~liE Rl:‘\‘%{-;~’l'lﬂ\'£ Pia

 

PORTS

PAGE 5

Soccer teams keep seasons alive in ODAC tournament

Generals get back on tra

JOHN HYLAND
ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITOR

The up and down season for the W&L men's
soccer team continues. After starting the season
undefeated in their first eight games, the Generals
then lost their next ﬁve. The Generals needed a win
against Emo ry and Henry in Lexington on Wednes-
day to guarantee them a spot in the ODAC tourna-
ment.

The Generals responded to the challenge.
They wasted no time in taking advantage of the
last-place Wasps (1-14-2, 0-8 ODAC) scoring just
1:01 into the game when Sophomore Derrick Lott
connected on a feed from fellow midﬁelder Jacob
Stoehr. It was the senior’s team leading fourth as-
sist of the season. The Generals would score twice
more in the next 15 minutes to extend their lead
when E&H scored on their own goal and junior
midﬁelder Justin Mygatt’s tally just minutes later.
W&L would round out the ﬁrst half scoring on a
goal from junior midfielder Josh Grahe off an assist
from freshman forward Sandy Pircacci at the 28:37
mark. With the Generals getting all the offense that
they would needin the first half, they were able to
focus on the defensive end of the game in the sec-
ond half, forcing sophomore goalkeeper Michael
Stanton to only have to make one save for the game.
The Generals did get a goal from sophomore
midﬁelder Walker Nickels to round out the scoring
and earn a 5-0 victory.

VV1th the win, the Generals qualiﬁed for the
ODAC tournament as the seventh seed in the eight
team tournament. W&L traveled to Roanoke on
Saturday to face the second seeded Maroons. The
Generals lost to Roanoke in the teams’ regular sea-
son meeting, 2-1, in the game that started W&L’s
ﬁve game slide. Despite playing on the road and
being the underdog to the Maroons, who entered
the game with a 10-3-3 overall record, the Generals
took a 1-0 lead into halftime. The lone goal came on
an unassisted strike from freshman midﬁelder Kyle
Garcia with 15 minutes left in the first half. The
Generals tightened up defensively in the second
half and maintained their lead until 2:44 left in regu-
lation when Roanoke midﬁelder Donny Smith

 

ck against Emory& Henry

CORBIN BLACKFORD RING-TUM PHI

Enema our THE COMPETITION. The men’s soccer team extended its season with a win over Emory & Henry.

scored off a free kick that bounced off a couple
W&L defenders before giving Smith the chance to
beat Stanton. Neither team could ﬁnd the net
through two overtime periods and the game went
into penalty kicks. Stanton came up huge in the PK
session. After making 5 saves during regulation
and overtime, he stopped two Roanoke shots to
give the Generals a 3-1 advantage and the victory.
The Generals prevailed in'an extremely physical
game in which 48 fouls were whistled and seven

Cam and Hyland0’s

CAMERON GARNER
STAFF WRITER

yellow cards were issued. The Generals were also
out shot 13-6 and forced Roanoke keeper Harper
Thorsen to only have to make one save. Neverthe-
less, W&L took advantage of the few scoring op-
portunities that they had, something they have
been inconsistent in doing this season.
Apparently having reverted to their early sea-
son form, the Generals (8-5-2) will try to avenge
another regular season loss as they will play
Guilford in Greensboro on Friday in the semi—ﬁnals.

  Top Ten List
Top ten things heard during
Parents’ Weekend

 Does Traveller drive to the Homestead?
9: Your mother and I are going to take a “nap.”
8: Back when I was at W&L. ..

i‘  Hey baby, my dad is sleeping in my bed, can I sleep

in yours?

6: Welcome to (any fraternity), we have a Motown
band.

5: We can’t go to the party, your father has two strikes.

4: What time did the ofﬁcer say we could pick up your

The Generals faced a huge chal-
lenge on Saturday as they played host
to Bridgewater, a fast, deep top ten team
that won the last meeting in overtime
two years ago. From the start, this game
seemed destined to follow the same
script as that of two years ago: the Gen-
erals’ defense looked strong after giv-
ing up an early score, leaving them
down a mere 7-3 at the half. Ben Long’s
school record—tying 47-yard ﬁeld goal
gave W&L the lone score, but the team
had held an incredibly potent offense,
led by junior QB Brandon Wakeﬁeld (17-
28, TD, 2 INT), and the rushing of
sophomore Marcus Washington (14
car. 85 yds. TD) to one score.

As the defense ﬁnished off a great
first half with a Robert Foster intercep-
tion late in the second quarter, the of-
fense came out looking to take the lead.
On the first play of the drive, however,
Bridgewater got the ball right back on
an interception by Steward White. They
drove the ball down, missing the ﬁeld
goal as the first half came to a close.
The Generals had held the talented
Bridgewater team to one score.

Womens’ team
squeaks out
1-0 win over Roanoke

SARAH BLOOM
STAFF WRITER

The Generals played a close first ODAC tour-
nament game on Saturday afternoon against sev-
enth seeded Roanoke. The final score of 1-0 will
enable the girls to continue in ODAC competition;
bringing the team one step closer to their goal of
hosting the ODAC championship tournament in
front of a home crowd on the newly constructed
soccer ﬁeld.

The only goal of the game was scored by jun-
ior Maggie Hope. Hope scored after freshman Anne
Wiltshire’s attempted goal bounced off of the
goalpost. Hope recovered.the ball and kicked it
past the goalie
f°.’ {he ga.m° “As a team, we have such
winning point. . .

“Wétryto great chemistry, which helps

aPP’°a°h °‘f' us tremendously out on the
cry game as if ﬁeld ,, «

it could be our
last and we a1— JUNIOR MAGGIE HOPE

ways work re-

ally hard.” said

Hope of the team’s preparation. “We just know
that we want to win for our teammates because we
all care about each other so much.”

Junior Emily Barker protected the goal for the
Generals for the duration of the game, making four
saves.

“Our main goal for the tournament and from

the beginning of the season has been to win the -

ODACs.’’ said Hope. “As a team, we have such
great chemistry, which helps us tremendously out
on the ﬁeld.”

The girls will count on that chemistry as they
take on third-seeded Lynchburg in semi-ﬁnals.

Team blown out after strong first half

STEVE MARiNos / RING-TUM PHI

 

father?

3: We need to talk about your behavior last night.
2: I had no idea you guys had a vacuum.

0
1 . Good morning, who’s mom are you?

good. '

The Peter Dean interception
seemed to be the spark that the Eagles
needed, as they came out hungry in the
second half, putting up 21 unanswered points and handing
the Generals a 28-3 loss. The Generals’ defense played re-
markably well against a great offensive team, continuing to
show the rock-solid type of play we’ve come to expect out
of them all season. Junior linebacker Lloyd Wilson knocked
the guy with the ball down 11 times. . .11 TIMES, boy he’s

Offensively, Peter Dean was 15-of-36 for 159 yards

THIS WEEK’ s SCHEDULE

game.

RUN, CU'1‘, SPRINT. Freshman fullback Richard Garland tries to avoid a tackle in the
team’s 28-3 loss to Bridgewater on Saturday.

throwing one interception despite being under constant pres-
sure all day (he was sacked 6 times). The rushing stats,
however, tell the story best, as Bridgewater rushed for 264
yards and held the Generals to a meager 20 yards rushing all

All in all, the Generals did well against such a fast, physi-

cal team. They return to action Saturday at Emory & Henry

at 1:00 pm.

Tuesday, November 4 Wednesday, November 5 Thursday, November 6 Friday, November 7 Saturday, November 8 Sunday, November 9
0 Open 0 WSoccer vs. 0 Open 0 VB at ODAC Toum-- 0 FBat Emory & Henry" 0 Swim at Catholic--1 :00
Lynchburg--TBA TBA 1:00’ ’ 0M Soccer vs. TBA--TBA
0 W Swim vs. Sweet 0 FH vs. EMU (at 0 WSoccer vs. TBA-TBA ‘
Briar--7:00 VWC)--2:30 0 FH vs. TBA (at VWC)—

TBA

O M Soccer vs. Guilfor --
TBA

0 VB at ODAC Toum--
TBA

 

PAGE 6

 

Swimmers

W&L SPORTS RELEASE

LEXINGTON, Va. -— The Washing-
ton and Lee men’s swimming team
downed Virginia Military Institute, 117-
88, in non-conference action on Satur-
day morning at the Cy Twombly Pool.

Senior Eric Ritter (Birmingham, Ala/
Mountain Brook) and freshman Mike
Ginder (Jacksonville, Fla./Episcopal) led
all Generals (2-0) with a pair of victories
each. Ritter took top honors in the 200
Free (1252.42) and 100 Back (53.06), while

BANG. The mens’ and womens’ swimming squads defeated VMI over the weekend.

SPORTS
defeat VMI

Ginder won the 100 Free (49.25) and the
50 Free (22.83).

Senior Drew Catanese
(Southampton, Mass./Suﬁield Acad.) and
freshman Kevin Hayes (Mercer Island,
Wash./Mercer Island) rounded out the
event winners f or W&L. Catanese won
the 100 Fly with a time of 54.63, while
Hayes hit the waH first in the 200 IM with
a time of 2205.27.

The Generals return to action on
Sunday, Nov. 9, when they travel to
Catholic. Meet time is 1:00 p.m.

CHRISTINE GRAY / RING-TUM PHI

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 2003

Field hockey start ODACs with win

KATHERINE SHELL
STAFF WRITER

W&L’s Field Hockey team
won last Sunday against St.
Mary’s College 5-4, won Thes-
day against Randolph-Macon 2-
1, and lost to Eastern Mennonite
3-5 on Wednesday. Saturday,
they played against Randolph-
Macon in the first round of the
ODAC Tournament and won 3-2.

Captain Kelly Taffe ‘04
scored two of the three goals; the
other was scored by S.B. Noithen
’05 with twenty-five minutes left
in the game. Randolph tried to
recover from W&L’s three goals,
but they were unable to even af-
ter scoring twice, the last goal
leaving only forty—six seconds in
the game.

On Friday, the Generals will
play Eastern Mennonite at Vir-
ginia Wesleyan at 2:30 in the

438339?-

senii-final round of the ODAC Championship.

Though the Generals lost to Eastern Mennonite on
Wednesday, they had outscored them in the last sixteen
minutes. The original game, played on October 16, had been
called off due to lightning. The score at the point of call-off

C1-I.RIS'I'1NE GRAY / RING-TUM PHI

GOING FOR THE GOAL. After strong showings in games last week, the ﬁeld hockey team
continued its winning ways on parents’ weekend. -

was 1-4, with the Eastern Mennonites winning. The Gener-
als outscored them on Wednesday 2-1, but lost the game.
EM is second-seeded and W&L is third-seeded; Friday’s
match will lead the winner to play Virginia Wesleyan on
Saturday.

Volleyball wins Maryville tournament

ALLISON PERRY
' CONTRIBUTING EDITOR

The Washington and Lee Volleyball team improved its
record to 31-3 overall and 11-0 in the ODAC this weekend
after winning the Maryville Invitational. The Generals de-
feated opponents Milligan, Maryville, Emory and Henry,
and Centre during the two-day event.

On Friday, Washington and Lee crushed Milligan, 30-
15, 30-15, 30-17. Sophomore middle blocker Susan Gaillard
led the team with 14 kills. Junior outside hitters Michelle
Chastain and Emily Wolfmg totaled 10 kills and four service
aces and seven kills and 17 digs, respectively. Sophomore
setter Christine Gladysz contributed with 42 assists and four
aces.

The Generals also defeated host Maryville on Friday,
30-24, 25-30, 30-26, 30-28. Wolﬁng led the teamwitli 18 kills
and 25 digs. Chastain notched 14 kills and 19 digs. Fresh-
man Lauren Edmonson totaled 12 digs. Gladysz accumu-
lated 52 assists, 17 digs, and three aces.

Cross country finishes
ODAC championships

W&L SPORTS RELEASE

LYNCHBURG, Va. — The Washington and Lee men’s
and women’s cross country teams were in action on Satur-
day at the ODAC Championships hosted by Lynchburg
College. The W&L men’s and women’s teams both finished
third overall. I

On the men’s side, senior Andy Schorr (Kingwood,
Texas/Kingwood) won the race, crossing the tape in 28:11.00.
He finished 10 seconds ahead of the nearest competitor
and became the first General to earn ODAC Runner of the
Year honors since Jason Callen won the 1997 ODAC race.

Junior Steven Chambers (Christiana, Pa./Octorara Area)
and senior Rusty Meyer (Dallas, Texas/Jesuit Prep) both

ﬁe Etta ‘teen

Sat: Spies}: tears
.3..3=§8.e2$.?‘?t§
*srmz.sa:as;2l atazarsaaaza 2

 

» Golf Etiquette

tip of the
week:

When it's ,
breezy swing
I easy.

 

iii;-iiiﬁ‘

{?:i.(>.Rs;s. LA'*3.’5"+:§‘?:?é{)i¥ F?A!s1:“;£‘.t.
Pietresiatsxaiauss 

  

§§«¢ﬁ’§»34d$?

 
  
 

§amS1.0a0-‘-'-52.300503’
§ni:m3lIosn'sl

  

i*e*a.§t;i;:s:¥ie 'f&i2‘1.tﬁrai$i‘ig  a.v.-ail.-at-‘.93.

 lbenm5

 

309 N. Main St. —  , VA 24450

total»;-gs mndriaivééntg made Simple, Safe and? Fires.

p Na";-  38:7 c:il¥§e§. Just iciicivsisﬁéi
Funsdzawng  M2 f315!’iz,§:»i§I.ii(.i<l3?.  with dist: rwwiaesn tiaezz are-3:62;:

Freer '§"2'me.s’£-riai S'r;=r£mc'fi~3r Ckailezge .F"'r¢ns1”‘n:i-2ii'§rz,;,§.

.......  

 

   

 

iO= En’-sz©*erz: O

&

  

 

 

LSAT score  
uara nteed
or your money back“

Going to law school in 29%? Fmpaee for the LSAT
with  here on campus at W&L“

Classes begin an  23. 
Enreli  amid begin your
stuﬂias at any ﬁmeﬂ

    

 all mantras: nlasﬂls or  sessimﬁ.
comelsta all &:.‘1'isd£.¥iitd mm, am an 
ifimur seem aria-zzsrft  an test‘ ilil5*'1'l‘mI32 your
Karim diagréti-sttr:= at as parlor" crfﬂalal ti‘-sat snare, 
 enenaebn mm: mxrmzgxamﬁarﬁtee-organ
ma: mrfmu at your Itmthm. ‘fan the eligihiafnrtﬁils ‘after.
WU must be tn 3¢anim".i: ma classrmm.
suturing, nmnilrie  In aodltlaraivawsrmat
iemeem an ewe:  mare  and
eiitmiitggoar course materials  

On Saturday, the team was back in action when it de-
feated Emory and Henry, 30-19, 30-21, 30-23. Freshman out-
side hitter Ashley Hurt led the Generals with 13 kills and 11
digs. Gaillard and Wolfmg notched 13 kills and nine kills
and ten digs, respectively. Gladysz totaled 54 assists and
16 digs.

In the last game, Washington and Lee overcame Centre
with a 27-30, 30-28, 30-17, 33-31 win. Wolfmg guided the
team with 21 kills, 13 digs, and six blocks. Chastain notched
16 kills, 21 digs, and four blocks. Gaillard accumulated 13
kills and four blocks. Gladysz totaled 60 assists, 14 digs,
and three blocks. In the game against Centre, Gladysz broke
the Washington and Lee career assist record held by Ali
Beard since 1997. Gladysz totaled 2,258 while Beard’s record
was 2,192.

The Generals will travel to Randolph-Macon on Friday
to compete in the ODAC Tournament. The tournament lasts
through Saturday. It has not been announced yet who will
face Washington and Lee in the first game.

third in
at Lynchburg College

earned Second Team All-ODAC honors with their finishes.
Chambers placed 1 1th with a time of 29:49.00, while Meyer
crossed the tape in 30:1 1.00 in placing 14th overall.

For the women, freshman Jenny Ratzel (Elm Grove,
Wisc./Brookﬁeld East) earned Second Team All-ODAC ac-
colades by placing eighth overall with a time of 27: 10.
Sophomore Mary Christopher (Fort Lauderdale, Fla./Car-
dinal Gibbons) placed l5tli (27:36), sophomore Betsy Frayer
(Grand Rapids, Mich./East Grand Rapids) placed 16th
(27:44) and freshman Tippins Stone (Nashville, Tenn./
Harpeth Hall) placed 17th (27:53).

W&L returns to action on Sat., Nov. 15, as it competes
in the NCAA South/Southeast Regional Championships
in Atlanta, Ga.

   
  
     
          
    
  

ﬁiufld LaadnrhTO£tPrnp

KAPLAN

i-tan-xnr-rest
kaptestoom/Ian:

 
 
  

     

   

 

    
       
       

ins Roi c-Tun iiin

PAOE 7

RTS

LIFE

 

MEGANMORGAN

AKlS&LIFEEDl’l0R

mm m

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 2003

Revamped City Subs offers variety of quality food

Last Friday I was awarded
a rare opportunity, an invita-
tion for a sneak preview of the
new City Subs. Employees
had gathered for trained in the
art of sub—making, and I was
one of a lucky few test sub-
jects.

You could say that a sub
is a sub—-you can’t do too

 

Just one of the things that
makes City Subs so good is
the quality of ingredients they
use. Fluffy, crispy, just-baked

bread was overﬂowing with '

fresh, high-quality meat. And
they’ll make it any way you
want it.

The chicken parmesan

sub was also the best I’ve had‘

much to mess it ____________________________________________________ _, in town. In-
up, but then THE DISH stead of slim
a ‘n th e' ’t cuts f
gal er 13“ CAROLYN DUFFY ‘05 °

 

much you can do
to glamorize the
sandwich. However, I think
City Subs could prove you
wrong.

Many local restaurants
specialize in the sub:
Salerno’s, Frank’s, Naples,
Spanky’s. But Brant Wymond,
the new owner of City Subs,
who moved here recently from
Dallas, has succeeded in
breaking the mold. I tried the
turkey sub on Friday—much
potential for mediocrity, but
that wasn’t the case at all.

..................................................... ..

c h i c k e n
smothered in
greasy fried batter and cov-
ered in tasteless sauce, the
chicken parm at City Subs
contains thick, tender cuts of
white meat settled in ﬂavorful
spicy Italian marinara sauce,
topped with fresh melted Pro-
volone cheese.

The menu offers some-
thing for everyone, for break-
fast, lunch, and dinner. Try
the City Breakfast for only
$4.95——two eggs, bacon or
sausage, grits or hash browns,

and pancakes. They still
serve five different varieties of
steak subs, including Mexican
and pizza steak, as well_ as
fresh subs, sandwiches, and
an extensive choice of salads.
And don’t worry—they
haven’t taken the Fried Pick-
les or the Hershey’s ice cream
off the menu.

The comfortable, fun at-
mosphere at City Subs adds
as much to your dining expe-
rience as does the food.
Wymond has turned the_ res-
taurant into a family business,
and you’re sure to find his
wife, Sue, and his two young
boys around the restaurant.

The family’s presence
gives the place personality
and energy, which shines
through in their commitment to
service. They have embraced
the community, wanting noth-
ing more than to have fun
serving up great food. Their
warm invitation to join them
for a trial run of the restaurant

on Friday is just one example
of their generous hospitality.

The atmosphere has
changed dramatically since
the Wymond family began re-
modeling City Subs. What
was once a cramped, dark,
dingy counter area has been
transformed into a bright,
open, airy space. In keeping
true to its name, Wymond has
expanded upon the city theme,
covering the walls in photo-
graphs of city scenes by a lo-
cal artist. The old firehouse
motif that characterized the old
restaurant is gone, replaced
with what feels like a genuine
diner atmosphere.

I was assured that the res-
taurant would be open to the
public by Monday (that’s to-
day), so I encourage you to
give City Subs, located at 159
S Main Street, a try sometime
soon. Lexington is lucky to
have both the restaurant and
the Wymonds as new addi-
tions to the community.

Dido’s newest album “Life for Rent”not groundbreaki ut a good buy

BY ALEX KRAUS
STAFF WRITER

Those who paid attention to Dido’s 1999
debut “No Angel” will know exactly what to
expect from her newly—released follow—up “Life
for Rent,” for better or for worse.

“Life for Rent” kicks off with the first
single “White Flag” as its first song. “White
Flag” distinguishes itself as one of the
album’s superior songs, further building upon
the style that Dido has established with past
hits like “Thank You” and “Hunter.” The
smooth sound production, evident through-
out the entire CD, manifests itself especially
in “White Flag,” giving it the subtle sweep-
ing majesty of a film score, aided by hushed

. violins.

Under any condition, I’d be cautious
when approaching a song with the chorus
“When you’re stoned, baby / Take me home”
and the appropriately—titled song “Stoned” is
certainly no exception. Despite my personal
reservations about the drug references, the
song, sprinkled with an acute techno beat, is
admittedly infectious. The lyrics, though
simple and segmented, are plaintive. As it
ends up, the song may be more additive than
its subject. '

The album’s title track follows. “Life for
Rent” proudly displays Dido’s undeniably
best talent: her voice. The song takes the
same formula as the rest of the album: a lilt-
ing, lighter-than-air melody backed with a
steady drum breat.

The chorus is especially captivating as
she reaches the high notes in “If my life is for
rent... then nothing I have is truly mine” — it
strikes you dumbfounded, as if something
otherworldly or ethereal has been revealed for
a fraction of a second. Fans of The Cranber-
ries, Sarah McLachlan, or Jewel will know ex-
actly what I’m talking
about. Then, as soon
as the lilting soprano
notes pass, you sit
there dazed, as if you
have just heard some-
thing —— dare I say it
— angelic? And then
you count down the
seconds until the next
repetition just to hear
that exact moment
when Dido suddenly
elevates herself into
the stratosphere
above the common-
place female singer.

On “Who Makes
You Feel,” Dido
dabbles in R&B inﬂuences, complete with
drum loops and a record skip. Unfortunately,
the song relies far too heavily on the repeti-
tion of the chorus, “Who makes you feel like
I make you feel?” A combination of the seem-
ingly randomly-assembled lyrics and soulful
gospel-like backing vocals make me feel that
this has been done before, and done better.
Though I can commend Dido for trying to ex-
pand her style, the sour results evident in this

 

track suggest that she should look elsewhere
for inspiration.

“Sand in my Shoes” wavers back and forth
between a Jewel-like folk song and a light
dance beat. The song begins naively enough
with Dido tip—toeing through rapid lyrics with-
out pause against a piano and folky guitar,

but gradually
progresses into a
slightly diluted

trance beat, including
ethnic drum beats. As
much of a contrast as
this may seem, it is ac-
tually a very smooth,
almost natural, pro-
gression.

“Do You Have a
Little Time” proceeds
at first with all the
gusto of a funeral
march, and with the
same amount of dis-
comforting disso-
nance. The several
layers of noise that

interfere with the melody remove it from any-,

thing resembling harmony. To even say
“melody” is perhaps too generous, as it
sounds more improvisational rather than cal-
culated. The song becomes more tedious to
listen to than pleasurable.

Hidden at the end of track 11 is an im-
pressive bonus track entitled, “Closer.” Nor-
mally extra songs of any kind are always a
bonus, but “Closer” deserves special acco-

HOUSE FOR RENT

Available June 2004
6 Tucker Street
3 Bedrooms/1 Bath
Living Room/Large Kitchen
Washer/Dryer
Recently Renovated
$840/mo.
463-9180 evenings/weekends
458-5001 weekdays

subscribe to the phi
540-4584060

Triple Nine Society
Founded 1978
Extraordinary camaraderie
in an
international society of peers.
99.9th percentile:
old SAT 1450, new SAT 1520,
GRE 1460, MAT 85;
see complete list at:

  

  

7 North Jefferson Street
463-3622

University
Cleaners

WE’LL GET RID OF YOUR DIRT

Great Service
First—Rate Quality

laundry, alterations

www.triplenine.org

For
Rent

ntly w/3 nt. min.

Call

dry cleaning,

l __L

Parents/Alumni -- Re-
stored and modernized log
cabin on 22 ac. in moun-
tains 15 min west of
Lexington. 2BR/2BA --
Sleeps 6. Avail wkly or

(804)355-0002

 

Muiatlcolmzn.

higler  
McAT score
  uarantee
or your money back“

Prepare for the Marie  HEAT
with Kapiaza here an campm at w&Ll!

, classes beget Jmuary 10. 
Enroll.  before October 3131 and receive
on-line  Review FREE!

-wear in in minim: mximutofim hnuanm ntannima

 all nautical classes or manna; sessions,
txmalaba all aehsdniisd ‘lulu,  hmnenmm
if your more «mm morons on am any from your
iupiarr diagnamlr: M a paier'uﬂialaI1mst more. you
can cnaosem mount our :rIownrtne!or:rea.nrget:a
ml  of Mir tuition. To in mlglhilelhr ttxtaafflar.
jam must as etsmaed in atapiarrs an ciﬂﬂsmnm.
Mortars‘, W Milne mums. R1 addltitirks Name’:

gjzrasent an nmdial  or some  and

avatmiltiymr mm mammals. mm mam...

 
 

lades. The song is acoustic, with only Dido’s
exceptional voice and a solo guitar. It is Dido
stripped down to her bare essentials, and ad-
mittedly, her best assets. The intimate track
records every ﬂutter of the vocal chords and
strum of the strings.

The sheer simplicty and persuasiveness
of Dido’s raw vocals is what makes “Closer”
better than the plurality of songs on “Life
for Rent.” The melodic hook is enrapturing
and it’s difficult to resist a second listen. Per-
haps for her next endeavor, Dido should in-
vestigate an acoustic album rather than ven-
turing into the abyss of electronica that
sometimes swallows good artists whole.

As for the album’s technical aspects, its
an immaculately produced CD. Transitions
are smooth as butter. Dido’s music has been
described by some as “folk electronica” and
it’s thanks mostly due to her production team
that such a musical oxymoron can exist. De-
spite acoustic guitars mixed with subdued
trance beats, nothing feels out of place.

Even if not entirely groundbreaking,
“Life for Rent” is an enjoyable listening ex-

‘perience. The CD begins with the impecca-

bly melodious trio of “White Flag,”
“Stoned,” and “Life for Rent,” but the album
falls into a‘slump during its second half.
Songs like “Do You Have a Little Time” and
“This Land is Mine” are almost lazy in their
composition. But odds are, you won’t be
looking for groundbreaking structures in
“Life for Rent.” You’ll be looking for Dido’s
dulcet, meandering vocals, and rest assured,
they are firmly in tow.

  
 
 

   
 

  

  
  
 

  

    
  
  

wnrltllsadarlahstvrnv
undmmtsolons

KAPLAN

t-tan-nip-rssr
kaprtaateam/premixed

     

    

          
    

  

 

 

 

PAGE‘ 8

 

THEE Rgnéc-n_.:n Pa:

THE AST

MEGANMORGAN
AR'IS&LIPEEDl'IOR

mm m

ORD

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 2003

Co’op Becomes Ghost Town, Students miss out

BY ]i-:13 Bnooxs
EDITOR IN CHIEF

Prompted by some senior friends, I de-
cided to take a walk down memory lane. I went
from Newcomb down the path behind the
Morris Guest and Lee Jackson Houses to the
old Co—op. I found myself alone. The ghost-
town I saw surprised me. I remember being
there just last year and seeing throngs of
people. Instead of the huge crowds of
W&Lers fighting for attention, there was just
an old cup, some broken bricks and a few
hand—tools. How many alums remember the
Co-op the same way I do? The rumor is that
the building will now be used for storage in-
stead of the lively conversations it once
housed.

It is distressing to think that my fellow
students no longer use the porch overlooking
the ODK circle to just hang out. There is no
rule against it that I’m aware of. I’ve heard
that construction workers sit in the worn-out
wooden chairs on their breaks. Why can’t we
reclaim them?

In fact, the walk prompted an interesting
realization for me: the whole traffic pattern on
campus has been interrupted. There are some
students who haven’t even walked down the
colonnade yet this year. Instead, their main
drag is Stemmons Plaza behind the library.
This is a tragic loss.

The reason for the ﬂow—change is the John

Wild and Wonderful at Washington and Lee

W. Elrod Commons. Instead of walking to-
ward the Co-op, students now head to its spa-
cious rooms between classes. Its planners
succeeded. It is a beautiful facility that most
of us love using. It is never empty. There is
always a meeting being held or a book being
read under its roof. It is lacking, however.
There doesn’t seem to be one central place to
see and be seen. There’s no single place to
get “face-time.” There’s not even one place
to come into out of the building. The Com-
mons’ large size is at once empowering and
ominous. It is, as the Pat McGee song goes,
“perfectly not perfect.”

For all that it lacked, the old Co-op did
have one thing in its favor. That porch was
always packed. Because there was only one
place to watch the world go by, it was easy to
find friends (and avoid enemies). You always
knew where they were. In the commons,
though, there’s no telling where someone
might be lurking. There’s the living room, the
café, the marketplace, the student activities
suite and those computers. The list goes on.
Large numbers of nooks are great to have meet-
ings, but anyone who wants to be assured of
seeing everyone on campus has a challenge
in front of him. Without the porch on the Co-
op, where does the world go by? Does it even
go by at all?

So, my recommendation to everyone is

two-fold. Go sit on the Co-op porch. Ignore
the construction and sit down with a cup of

When youthinkof the W&L
student body, what states do
you think of? Virginia is of
course a sensible answer. Then
there’s the realization that W&L
is Westminster, the college years,
so Georgia would have to be up
there too. Of course, we can’t
forget Texas — doing so would
result in the entire Kappa Sig
house keying my already crappy
truck.
There’s a whole host 
of states in the
southland that send ‘

 

how great West Virginia really is.
When we win football games at
WVU, we don’t celebrate by
drinking at a bar. We burn furni-
ture. We light city streets on fire.
And when WVU beat Tech in
Blacksburg last year, WVU fans

in Morgantown celebrated by,

tearing down their own goal-
posts. Yes, they stormed their
own football ﬁeld and tore down

___________________________________________ __ the goal-

ABSOLUTFRATLORD pqsts for a
victory

_____  some 200
milesaway.

their share of resi-
dents to Lex Vegas. From the
north, we get a few students from
the “island,” and Pennsylvania
and Ohio can’t resist sending
their best and brightest (and a
few others?) to W&L as well.
But there is one state over-
looked in this grand menagerie
of geographical areas. It is the
35"‘ state, the greatest state of
the union. It’s Wild and Won-
derful. It’s West Virginia. ,
Afterl reveled in the Moun-
taineers stomping over those
heinous neutered-male turkeys
(in case you didn’t know what a
Hokie is), it got me thinking about

Being from West Virginia
brings its own unique phenom-
ena. At the WVU—UVATire Bowl
last December, Charlotte was
packed with some 40,000 WVU
fans. While a buddy and I
worked a case of Yuengling in a
downtown parking lot, we were
surrounded by Morgantown kids
doing keg stands, 40—something
couples cooking breakfast and
pounding back drinks, and a few
UVA fans who thought they had
stumbled into the end of civiliza-
tion. One group of adults kindly
offered us pancakes and some
fresh strawberries — by fresh, I

mean that the fruit had been
soaking in moonshine for god
knows how long. Where else
can you get that?

West Virginian pride is dif-
ferent from any other feeling. It’s
the kind of pride that lets us en-
joy all the stereotypes — sure, we
might have fewer teeth, we might
feel occasional amorous feelings
for our own family members, we
might prefer to park our cars on
cinder blocks instead of in ga-
rages. We get tons of ﬂak for
being from the Mountain State.
Some might be true. Some isn’t.
We’re proud either way.

W&L, with all its formalities
and appearances, is probably
the least West Virginian place I
can think of. But if you look
around, you’ll notice a collection
of West Virginia a1l—stars who
bring a little bit of Almost Heaven
to Lexington:

West Virginians control the
all—important intramural program.
All 5 sororities have at least one
West Virginian. The president
of PiKA hails from the Mountain
State. Mock Con’s King Dixie is
bona fide border trash. Rumor

has it that many of the hot fresh-

Just because the

coffee and a few friends.
Commons is so great doesn’t mean the Co-op
is gone forever. At least not yet. While you
are at it, take a stroll down the colonnade.

Anyone who doesn’t take
that walk at least once a week is making a

huge mistake. The colonnade is unques-
tionably the most valuable part of campus.
Just take a moment to look at the bricks and

man ladies are West Virginians
themselves. And let’s not forget
the man who grades your rallies
— our own esquire of Charleston.

If anything, my experience
at W&L has made me more con-
scious and proud of where I
come from. Freshman year, I felt
a certain satisfaction parking my
crappy truck next to 4 beamers
from Dekalb County. Now, with
Mock Con fast approaching,
state pride becomes a driving
force of W&L parties -— if there’s
anything I know about West Vir-
ginians, it’s that we know how
to party. The problem, however,
is that we can’t ﬁgure out how
to party without destroying
something.

To the rest of you, West Vir-
ginia may not mean all that much.
Maybe it’s only a place where
you frat boys can go buy grain.
Maybe it’s just that beloved
70mph speed zone that you ap-
preciate on 1-64 or I-81. But re-
ally, the Mountain State means
so much more. I’m only a north-
ern Virginia carpetbagger, but af-
ter l3 years as a t:rue—blue hick, I
know the real truth — if you warma
see perfection, just look west.

think about how many people and how many
years it has taken to ware them down. To
me, that's a beautiful thought. These are
just my ideas, what do you think?

Next week, I’ll relate some unbeliev—'

able stories from my police ride-along this
weekend. Guns, towing and fights, they
are all in a day’s (or night’s) work for the
great guys of the Lex-Po.

OldSchooI: the glue that binds us

BY STEVE LAMB
STAFF Wiu'rER

It had been a long time since a movie affected me
as profoundly as Old School did. While it provided me
with a purely superficial satisfaction, I definitely place
it up on my shelf of all—time greats among Forest Gump,
Tombstone, Jerry Maguire, and the Big Lebowski.

However, I’m not here to discuss the movie’s un-
disputable excellence, we all accept that Old School
stands securely as a great cinematic work. For those
individuals out there who have not yet seen this in-
stant classic, see it, you will have an awesome time.
And if you already have a nice little day planned and
you just don’t know if you are going to have time, get
out, find a copy (almost every freshmen guy room owns
at least one copy) and get ready.

Here is my theory; I believe that an overwhelming
majority of collegiate males ages 17-22 feel the same
way that I do about Old School, or, at a bare minimum,
they’ve seen it and enjoyed it. Old School is the glue
that binds so to speak. Almost every guy (and a fair.
number of ladies) from my home town as well as this
prestigious institution of higher learning can give at
least one quote. Entire relationships have been formed
solely on the basis of shared love of the Old School;
it is truly the gift. that keeps on giving. Pulling out a
few lines at a party can give you all kinds of street
credit, not to mention hours of entertainment. To all
my fellow Old School fans out there, keep on truck-
ing; and to all those yet to experience this master-
piece, you already know, it will change you forever.

For Traveller: 458-8900*

*We have heard that some students do not know the Traveller phone number. Now, there’s no excuse.

 

TS

Q Stacy’s mom may have it going on, but, guys,
let’s keep our hands off the hot moms this week-
end.

Q Shout out to the stud freshman who reported
an honor code violation. The freshmen contacted
E.C. President Helen “The Face that Launched a
Thousand Ships” Hughes and stated, “I have an
honor code violation to report. The day I met you,
you stole my heart.”

Q More on the E.C.: Last year’s freshmen never
bothered Titus the way this year’s bother Helen.

Q Why can’t we hire cooks in the D-Hall that
know how to make something other than stir fry?

Q Ben Losi = Super Mario

Q The athletic department’s most treasured fan-
tasy is the complete and sudden disappearance of
the riding team.

Q I have never been to a lecture in Lee Chapel
without wanting to hang myself from boredom.

Q Who in the world works on the ﬁre alarms at
midnight? Do they not realize people are trying to
study?

Q It’s nice to see a new party idea come along
once in a while. Thanks to Chi Psi for being bold
enought to pull off one of the year’s best parties.

Q TFC: We’re not in high school anymore . . .

Q The freshman girl who is staying in the Phi Psi
house should be paying rent.

Q Rob Kirwan, I have to say, owned Penny Lane.
He is the best beer pong player in the history of the
world.

Q The Board of Trustees says it will make the
Spring Term decision based on “fmancial criteria.”
Spring Term: prepare for burnination.

Q The public section of the Pyongyang Metro is
far smaller than the portion reserved for secret mili-
tary and government use.

Q Sheryl Silvers proved this weekend that she is
better than most at stabbing people.

Q Can you imagine having an elephant “ﬁxed?”
Does the vet use hedge clippers?

Q The lax girls owned the parents in ﬂip cup.
Does an undefeated season here mean another
undefeated season later?

Q Why do paper cuts hurt so much? They’re
such small cuts, after all.

Q Three cheers for the weather. But, are we go-
ing to make up for it this VVinter?

Q According to a recent study, fans of the Oprah
Winfrey Show are twice as likely to be unable to
cope with the stress in their lives as non-fans.

Q P. Diddy is running a marathon. Did he train
running from the police?

Q RCHS Wildcats Marching Band is still better
than a piped in recording of the W&L Swing.

Q Motown at SAE for Parents’ Weekend? Was
Widespread already booked?

Q ‘Good news, ladies: Pumpkinseeds now sells
Lilly!

Q Bad news, ladies: Most of what she has left is
Surmner or Resort wear and can’t be worn until next
year.

Q Will you marry me?
Q Other than ﬁsh and hate, what can be monged?

Q Special thanks to the all of the bidders for mak-
ing the Mock Con Silent Auction a smashing suc-
cess.

Q More on Mock Con: There is a black—tie gala
on Friday, November 14. Find a date.

Q In re: balls of years past: The 1923 Calyx
lists 11 school wide black-tie balls and cotillions
held during the year. It’s too bad we only have
one.

Q CASA? SARAH? FAIR? RACAS? MetroLex
really has the best. acronyms.

Q Does Lexington really need a second coffee
shop? Bring back the tattoo parlor!

Q Congratulations Eden Parks. We were pulling
for you.

Q E-mail your anonymous Quick Hits and tales

 

  

BY CHRIS LAUDERMAN
SENIOR STAFF WRITER

Tuition increases have been common in recent
years at Washington and Lee. In the 2002-2003
academic year, tuition was $21,000 and, then it
jumped to $23,295 this year. “There are three
sources of revenue for the university,” said Steve
McAllister, Vice President for Finance, “endow-
ments, gifts and tuition.”

There is a policy that dictates endowments.
The policy shapes how much can be drawn to pre-
serve long term purchasing power. Gifts are rea-
sonably predictable. The armual fund stands be-
tween 4.4 and 4.5 million dollars. Washington and
Lee expects that amount to grow annually by 3 per-
cent.

Tuition has the ﬂexibility to meet the
university’s needs. “Expense on the university is

R WASHING

TONAND LEE UNIVERSITY

G-TUM

6 lire student voice ofWo5bington and Lee University since I 897
Tuition increases expected to be higher this year than in past

personnel driven,” explained McAllister, “Almost
70 percent of the budget goes to personnel.”

This is to preserve and improve the student/
faculty ratio. Also, the university wants to hire
the best possible faculty and retain them. Admin-
istrative salaries also have to increase because
huge inequities in administration are bad.

“We want a good all-around staff. Salaries
must increase every year,” commented McAllister.
Market conditions plus capital costs such as build-
ing upkeep and interest expense cause tuition to
increase. A

“Tuition is relative to the marketplace,” said
McAllister.

University ofﬁcials believe we are just as good
as the other top 24 schools in “US News & World
Report’s” rankings. They want to stay competi-
tive in that group. Washington and Lee has one
of the lowest tuition rates in the top 25.

McAllister said that tuition cuts have been
made at schools with enrollment pressures. They
reduce ﬁnancial aid and discount tuition. Wash-
ington and Lee does not have tuition pressures.
The marketplace has allowed tuition movement
upward, but eventually it will get too high. Wash-
ington and Lee has been increasing aid at a faster
rate than it has been raising tuition over the past
ten years.

There has been widespread speculation about
a 25% tuition hike that McCallister denies.

“Tuition has not been set for next year. I do
not see a 25 percent increase in tuition,” com-
mented McAllister. The University has never ex-
plored the option of raising tuition for everyone
to 25 percent.

Washington and Lee will increase faculty over
the next four to six years for faculty course load
reduction. Tuition increases also go to fund

PHI

VOL NJ DNo.\iHi
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 2003

projects such as the Elrod University Commons,
signiﬁcant renovations to Reid Hall, and the Fit-
ness Center. Also beneﬁting from higher tuition
are more interdisciplinary programs and greater in-
ternational studies. The Campaign for the Rising
Generation can’t meet all these needs alone.

The tuition for next year will be set in February.
“It will not be a 25 percent increase, but it will not be
a two or three percent increase either,” stated
McAllister. It will be in line with the increases from
years past, but a little more accelerated. The Uni-
versity has been looking at tuition increases to con-
tinue to improve academic programs.

“One option was a large tuition increase only
for incoming freshmen, but I do not see that on the
table. There is not a desire to do that to freshmen,”
said McAllister. No options have gone beyond the
ﬁnance committee. How the calendar issue evolves
will probably affect the tuition matter.

Students can receive a

BY ELIZABETH ECKMAN
STAFF WRITER

Washington and Lee’s
policy on alcohol states that a
“conviction of an alcohol or drug
related violation of the law” is
grounds for the application of the
three-strike system, A first strike
includes mandatory alcohol edu-
cation counseling, a signiﬁcant
ﬁne, and parental notiﬁcation. A
second strike receives manda-
tory education and counseling,
another fine, and the possibility
of a suspension. A third strike is
basis for dismissal from the uni-
versity.

Few, however, are aware of
the University Health Center’s
policies on alcohol use and
abuse. As dictated by their poli-
cies, seeking help from the Stu-
dent” Health Center for alcohol
related problems will not result
in parental or University notiﬁ-
cation. The Health Center oper-
ates as a medical facility and fol-
lows the guidelines of the Fam-

ily Educational Rights and Pri-
vacy Act. FERPA protects the
conﬁdentiality of student educa-
tion records unless the student
gives authorization to release
those records.

Dr. Jane Horton, the Direc-
tor of Health Services at the
Health Center said, “We are a
health care provider. It is impor-
tant that there is never negative
action with regards to treatment
because of conﬁdentiality con-
cerns. These records are not re-
ported anywhere except to the
doctor providing treatment.”

With regards to alcohol, the
Health Center uses the following
procedure: for a first time visit
with an alcohol related problem,
the student is given an AUDIT‘,
or Alcohol Use Disorders Identi-
ﬁcation Test. This test contains
ten questions regarding the his-
tory and behavior of the student’s
use of alcohol, including the fre-
quency of drinking, family his-
tory of alcoholism, and behavior
while under the inﬂuence. The

student also has a one—on—one
conversation with a doctor re-
garding the AUDIT. If the doctor
gets a sense that the student’s
behavior is abusive, the doctor
may recommend an online alco-
hol education course and coun-
seling. “For the doctor to recom-
mend counseling the first time a
student visits the Health Center
is very rare,” said Horton.

The second time a student
visits, however, the doctor will
strongly urge the student to take
an alcohol education course and
seek counseling. “This is an ex-
pectation of mine, that the stu-
dent take such action, not a re-
quirement. It is voluntary treat-
ment,” said Hoiton. If a student
refuses treatment and continues
in such self-destructive behav-
ior, the doctor may require the

student to meet'witl‘Ithe'Dearrt0 

discuss required administrative
withdrawal for non-academic rea-
sons. According to university
policy, if “there is a sufficient
showing that the student is en-

Lexington has low voter participation

Republican Ben Cline wins local House of Delegates seat with 65% of vote

BY ANNE BANKER
STAFF WRITER

Voters turned out Tues-
day, November 4“‘ for local
elections in both Rockbridge
County and the City of Lex-
ington.

In a number of races, the
results produced an interest-
ing mix of triumphant incum-
bents and prevailing new-
comers.

Republican Del. Ben Cline
secured his seat representing
the 24"‘ District in Virginia’s
House of Delegates for the
second consecutive year. He
defeated his opponent, Inde-
pendent Eric Sheffield, with
65% of the vote.

Dick Miimix, Secretary of
the City of Lexington Elec-
toral Board, remarked that this
race received the most local
attention.

“Ben Cline vs. Eric
Sheffield has sparked the
most interest since they are
both local folk,” he said.
Minnix also noted, however,
that last year’s race between
Democratic candidate Mimi
Elrod and Ben Cline was even
more contested.

“There was much more
interest with more than 50 per-
cent voter participation for
Lexington voters,” he said.
This year voter participation
in Lexington did not even
reach 30percent

Issues in the Cline/
Sheffield delegate race re-
volved around taxes,
healthcare, education, I-81
and enviromnental concerns.

Another successful Re-
publican incumbent was
Emmett Hanger, Jr. He retained

  

 

PlC1'URE ooURrEsY BEN CLNE

 Delegate Ben Cline at a campaign function earlier this
year. Cline Won a whopping 65% of the vote last Tuesday.

his seat representing the 24"‘
District in the Virginia Senate
by defeating Democratic chal-
lenger Steven Sisson. Hanger
won with over 66 percent of the
vote.

Hanger plans to continue
tax reform initiatives and in-
tends to advocate farmland
protection. In addition to a
number of other committee po-
sitions, the senator currently
serves on the committee for
Agriculture, Conservation, and
Natural Resources.

The Rockbridge County
Board of Supervisors had
five seats open for election
on Tuesday. Independent
Carroll Comstock ran unop-
posed in the South District,

,making only four of the

races contested.

Monty Fix defeated in-
cumbent Nancy Stagner for
the Walkers Creek District
in a surprising victory. New-
comers to the Board also include
Democrat Mack Smith who de-
feated Carl Newcomer in the
Buffalo District and

Independent Harvey Hotinger
who barely defeated opponent
Rusty Ford for the Kens Creek
seat. Incumbent Maynard
Reynolds held on to his posi-
tion in the Natural Bridge Dis-
trict by overcoming challenger
Lannie Ballard.

The same issues continued
to resurface in all four of the
races. The Buffalo and Kerrs
Creek districts both dealt with
the question of drawing new
businesses and industries to
Lexington.

Another popular topic was
the proposed extension of
sewer lines to the northern end
of the county. Tax reduction
also received attention from
candidates.

Minnix predicted that
voter participation for
Rockbridge County would be
higher than that of Lexington
due to some of the “hot con-
tests between the Board of Su-
pervisors.”

His predictions were right:
Rockbridge County had a voter
turnout of 43percent

gaging in behavior that presents
a real danger of substantial harm
to self or others,” a student may
be required to withdraw.

This policy is only used in
extraordinary circumstances,
such as ongoing substance
abuse or addiction. “This is
where the university would get
involved, because the Health
Center cannot meet the needs
of the student if the student is
refusing treatment for abuse.
For instance, if a student is
getting into fights brought on
by alcohol or is injuring oth-
ers, it oversteps university
policy. Extreme alcohol abuse
is an emergency situation and
requires the involvement of
other people,” said Horton.
Such action is “invoked
rarely.”

Dawn Watkins, Dean of
Students, said, “Any visit to
the Health Center for alcohol
related problems has nothing
to do with the university’s poli-
cies on substance abuse. We

cohol treatment without fear of sanctions

 

 

encourage students to seek
care for alcohol problems with-
out fear of administrative ac-
tion.” The only other time that
parentsmay be notified of an
alcohol iﬁcident is‘ if the stu-
dent is taken to the hospital be-
cause the student’s parents are
billed for treatment. “If this is
the case, it is best for the stu-
dent to contact their parents

JEB Baooxs / THE RING-TUM PH

prior to receiving the bill. We
encourage students to do this
and will also help make the
phone call with them. Or, we can
provide the proper channels to
have the student billed and not
their parents. Again, sending a
student to the emergency room
is a case where the Health Cen-
ter is not equipped to meet the
student’s needs,” said Horton.

UVa. professor speaks about African lit

 

BY KAELA HARMON
STAFF WRITER

Washington and Lee’s department of
Romance Languages invited literary expert
Kandioura Dramé to speak on campus last
week. Dramé is the head of the French de-
partment at the University of Virginia but
is also an expert in African Literature.

His talk last week titled “The Baobab
in the Grain: Ken Bugul for the sake of love”
focused on author Ken Bugul and the inﬂu-
ence her novel The Baobab in the Grain made
on contemporary African Literature.

Dramé started his lecture by giving the
audience background on the important
role the baobab tree has played in West Af-
rican cultures and emphasized the fact that
the people who live in the regions where the
tree is found have used this plants for mul-
tiple purposes for centuries. He then wove
in how the tree plays a significant role in

Mock Convention

BY STEVE LAMB
STAFF WRITER

This year’s Mock Convention has attracted
over 1600 participants.

While many state delegations have already
hosted their own parties, the Convention’s first ma-
jor event of the school year will take place this com-
ing Friday, November the l4"'. The largest
of Mock Convention’s social events,
The Presidential Gala will be a
memorable evening that “serves
a dual purpose of fimdraiser and
kick-off party,” said Personnel
Chair Jacquelyn Clark.

Clark, along with Mike
Baker, Abbey Harding, and aﬁ”
countless others, have all
worked hard to make the Mock-Con Gala
the unforgettable event it promises to be. At the
state level, frmd—raising efforts thus far have focused
primarily on private donors. The convention plans
on receiving support from the Five Star Generals, a
designation given to only the highest level donors.
In addition to the Gala and private donations, the
Convention hopes to organize some type of

    
   

Ken Bugul’s novel and how the novel made
an impact in the literary world. Dramé em-
phasized the fact that this novel was the first
to question the mother/ daughter relationship
in African literature leading the way into new
themes and topics

The lecture was relatively well attended

and those who were in the audience enjoyed
hemselves. Professor Mayock of the Span-
sh department especially enjoyed Professor
Dramés lectures as he was a professor of hers
luring her undergraduate years.

“It was really a treat to see him ‘back in
action,” she said,

Professor Kamara, who organized the en-
tire visit, said, “I was pleased with the event.
The turn out was not bad at all.” He also
stated that he was “in the process of search-
ing for funds for a colloquium on African
literature and film” and that he was looking
forward to continued support from the
school.

plans continue

fimdraiser that will take place in Washington, D.C.
The event will most likely be held in November or
December and will draw on the many Washington
and Lee alums and supporters in the D.C. area.
Virginia’s push-back of its primary date to Feb-
ruary provides the Convention with an excellent
opportunity to attract all the major Democratic Party
candidates to speak at the actual Delegation in Janu-
ary. The Mock Convention expects that
the Candidates support-building vis-
its to the Commonwealth will coin-
cide with the Convention, giving
them a viable reason to spend
some quality time at the nation’s
most storied Mock-Convention.
The 2004
Mock Convention is shaping
up to be a fantastic event thanks
to the hard work of over four hundred
W&L students who have logged countless hours
to make the Convention a reality. According to se-
nior Mike Denbow, working on the Convention pro-
vided him with an unparalleled experience, “It has
been great working with all the different personali-
ties and it could never have been done without
them.”

 

 

  

James a s mew ﬁt-I it

R9432? ‘I’

 .="‘r'

   

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 10,2003

Endowed professorships help retain outstanding faculty

BY KAELA HARMON
STAFF WRIIER

Washington and Lee is on a
mission to guarantee students a
well-rounded educational experi-
ence. In order to do so, Wash-
ington and Lee must be able to
retain and attract outstanding fac-
ulty members. Endowed profes-
sorships or chairs allow the uni-
versity to do just that.

An endowed chair is a gift
of at least $1.5 million given to
the school usually in honor -of an
alum. Often, the gift is given with
the stipulation that it be awarded
to a faculty member who is an
expert in a speciﬁed ﬁeld. Ac-
cording to Provost Williams, once
the gift that creates an endowed

professorship is received, the
University will do one of two
things.

The award will “serve as rec-
ognition and reward for some of
our most distinguished faculty”
or, if the award is for an area of
study not yet established on
campus, a new professor will be
sought after to start a new pro-
gram. Such is the case with Pro-
fessor Luecke of the J-School
who was hired as a recipient of
the Reynolds Professorship in
order to establish a program in
business journalism.

As the money that makes a
professorship is not enough to
fully cover a professor’s salary,
the money goes in to the salary
pool as a whole. Instead of re-

ceiving a lump sum of money as
a salary, the recipient of the
award will see the raise that
comes with the award in their sal-
ary and will receive an annual dis-
cretionary fund.

Along with the fact that en-
dowed chairs help the university
financially, recipients of the
awards have the honor of bring-
ing prestige to their department
and as a whole serve to make
Washington and Lee a more repu-
table institution.

Dean Peppers of the C-School
noted, “endowed professorships
are used to lure top scholars ﬁom
other institutions.” Often, those
who are offered endowments are
awarded automatic tenure. Profes-
sor Jeans, who holds the chair for

the East Asian Studies Program,
observed that along with the pres-
tige of receiving an endowment
comes “pressure to continue to
do good wor ” saying “I should
continue to research and write so
I can deserve it.”

Such pressure motivates pro-
fessors to stay abreast of the hap-
penings within their ﬁeld, thus
making them more effective edu-
cators.

Currently, there are seven
endowed chairs in the Law School.
The C-School has six held by full-
time professors and one held by a
professor who retired from full-
time teaching. The College has
17. The English Department has
the most endowed professor-
ships, with three, while Math, Re-

ligion, Journalism and Physics all
have two. Sociology/Anthropol-
ogy. Psychology, Philosophy,
History and Art each have one.
There is also the chair set
aside for the East Asian Studies
interdepartmental program. Re-
cently, the university started a
campaign called For The Next
Generation that considers in-
creasing the number of endow-
ments as one of its primary goals.
Through this campaign
W&L is hoping to bring in $15
million in endowed professorships
and $6 million for the Law School.
The hope is that if the University
can use more gift money to go to-
wards salaries, the school can use
the money that frees up for other
projects and programs.

 

Pam Luecke holds the Reynolds
Professorship. The administration

wants more such endowments

Students failed to attend the information meetings about calendar decision

BY CAIHERINE SWAN

The calendar decision is now solely in the

Burish also elaborated on the many other fac-

The more profound calendar change that is made

SENIOR STAFF WRITER

In an effort to keep students informed about
the status of the calendar discussion, the University
held two information sessions in Lee Chapel last
week

EC President Helen Hughes and University
President Tom Burish delivered statements on the
discussion’s progress, while Provost Tom Williams
was on hand to help answer student questions.

“The current calendar, if maintained, is going to
be modiﬁed,” said Hughes during Thursday night’s
session. Exactly how the calendar will be modiﬁed is
an issue that has yet to be determined.

hands of the trustees. Due to the complexity of the
issue, the trustees were unable to
make a decision during their October
meeting. President Burish indicated
that their decision will be based on
ﬁnances.

Under a 14-14 calendar fewer
classes are needed to graduate than
undera l2—l2—6 calendar. Thus, there
is less of a financial burden on the
University to finance as many
classes. The trustees have a responsibility to look
at the costs of each calendar, as well as the money
available when making a decision.

Campus Hidden Heroes

Phi spotlights Senior Joanna Pen'ni for her contributions to service on campus

BY CATHERINE SWAN
SENIOR STAFF WRIIER

This week’s Hidden Hero is Joanna Perini, a se-
nior who utilizes her many leadership qualities in her
activities. Perini describes herself as “dedicated, pas-
sionate and outgoing, but a complete goober at the
same time.”

She is a psychology and public policy double

major. Perini had her‘ mind set on the public policy 1

major because she felt it was a good combination of
politics and economics, plus she could incorporate
the Shepherd Poverty Program into her studies. She
took Brain and Behavior freshmen year and enjoyed
it enough to major in psychology as well.

Most notably, she is the head of the N abors
Service League. She has worked with Nabors since
her freshmen year, and was asked to be president this
year. Perini stresses that community service is an
important aspect here, and that programs like Nabors
help to foster programs and get projects under way.

Pemini’s activitiesanecertainly not limited to this.
Aside from playing lacrosse since freshmen year, she
held an internship at the New York City Department
of Correction at Rikers Island over the summer.

Joanna says that the thing she loves the most
about Washington and Lee is the sense of commu-
nity. She mentions that even though it is somewhat
cliché, she believes that it runs even deeper than most
students realize: “the grounds crew, security,
secretaries. . .everyone plays a part in the community,
and that’s what makes it so special,” she says.

Her favorite classes during her time at Washing-
ton and Lee have been very diverse ranging from
Intro to Poverty to Money and Banking. As her un-

Nominate a Hidden Hero!
Email phi@wlu.edu with the
name of an outstanding
student today!

The Cutting
Qicfqe

Compkte ﬂair Care for
Men amf ‘Women

Style Cuts
Cfipper Cuts

Complete Qocfy Care

Manicure
(Pedicure
‘Waxing

117 ‘W. .7V'e[son St.
Leacington, ‘I/fl
463-9588

Close to Campus
Q’rqfessiona[Sa[on witﬂ a
G’ersona[’1?)ucﬁ!

dergraduate career winds down, she hopes to attend
law school. Right now she is currently looking for
teaching fellowships, where her two degrees will
surely to come in handy.

Perini’s advice to other students: get involved,
with anything and everything you can. She is a prime
example of the diverse activities one can be involved
withatthisschool—sheurgesthatwelookpastourlittle
comfort zone and discover what is out there.

SIEVEN MARINOS / TI-HE 

Hidden Hero. Joanna Perini is active and humble

The current calendar,
if maintained,
is going to be
modified.
HELEN HUGHES
ECPRESIDNET

tors the Board is taking into consideration. They
take into account how many new fac-
ulty and staff would need to be hired
under each calendar, and also what
unordinary expenses the University
expects to occur in the future, such
as renovations to the colonnade.
They also consider what implications
increased ﬁnancial aid and class size
could have.

No matter what kinds of changes
take place, Provost Wﬂharns said that current fresh-
men were the only class that could see a new calen-
darjmplemented while they were at W&L.

the longer it will take to implement, thus there is also '

the possibility that no current students will still be at
W&L to experience a calendar change. The board is
comrrritted to making a decision by the end of the
academic year, and hopes to make the decision dur-
ing their February meeting.

Despite student opinion in favor of spring term,
few students actually attended the information ses-
sions to show their support. Monday night’s ses-
sion had approximately 15 attendees, while Thurs-
day night’s session had about 25 in attendance.

“I came because I thought if I didn’t come I
would have no right to complain about the possible
absence of spring term,” said Ellen Lide.

Greek organizations help philanthropies

BY PATRICIA BALLANTYNE
STAFF WRITER

The philanthropic aspect of
Fraternities and Sororities may
not receive much attention, but
it exists and is growing stronger.

The Owings Service Initia-
tive, headed by Kate Talbert and
Patrick Hasting, seeks to help
organize the fraternity ‘philanthro-
pies;  '

“I had the idea to do some-

thing organized through Nabors.

Service League that would pro-
vide a more active incorporation
of Community Service in
pledgeship,” said Hastings.
The Owings Service Initia-
tive has a list of several local phil-
anthropic projects. They meet
with the philanthropy chairs of
the fraternities to provide them
with the options on the list, and
then fraternities choose one 10-
cal philanthropy to concentrate
on during pledgeship.
Currently, seven fraternities
have chosen their community
service projects. Kappa Sig will
focus on roadside cleanup; Phi
Psi will walk dogs; SAE will help
Hunters for the Hungry; Sigma
Chi will concentrate on the Spe-
cial Olympics; Pi Phi will aid the
Natural Bridge Correctional Fa-
cility, Phi Kap will concentrate on

the Literacy Campaign, and
Lamda Chi will assist RARO
children’s sport.

Phi Delt, Beta, and Pika have
also shown interest in picking a
local philanthropy.

“It’s just a matter that frater-
nities don’t know who to get in
touch with and how to get it,”
said Hastings. “We want to make
it as easy as possible.”

The next step involves
extending philanthropy from
pledgeship into the entire
year.

“The Owings Service Initia-
tive is a great way to have pledge
classes bond, while doing some-
thing constructive for our com-
munity,” said Talbort. “Ideally,
work the fraternity does for their
local philanthropy during
pledgeship will carry over into the
regular school year.”

Sororities tend to focus on
national and local projects. On
Philanthropy Night of Formal
Rush, every sorority involves
freshmen girls in a philanthropy
project.

Kappa Delta participates in
four national philanthropies: Girl
Scouts, Prevent Child Abuse
America, Richmond Children’s
Hospital, and Orthopedic Sur-
geons Award and helps Project
Horizon locally.

rrrspzntn at in ms. sum  stints

Seats titre, has 53 static
feet of cargo space, and
is airaiiaaie with 188 he
and 3 3-seeeé raairaat
shift.
eaift fatty exaiaia it.

Chi Omega assists Make-A-
Wish foundation for their na-
tional philanthropy. The pro-
ceeds for their Haunted House
with Lambda Chi on Halloween
went to this. They also partici-
pate in Walk for a Cure for breast
cancer.

Kappa Kappa Gamma
does community service at
Waddell Elementary and the
Mayﬂower Retirement Home.
Their Bowl-A-Thon earlier this
year raised money for the
American Heart Association,
and they began a tradition last
year of a 5K run for Neuro-
blastoma.

Pi Beta Phi is involved with
Links to Literacy as they sup-
port reading programs at the
Rockbridge Regional Library and
Waddell Elementary. Their an-
nual Flag Football Tournament
held in November funds their
donations to Make a Vifrsh Foun-
dation.

Kappa Alpha Theta concen-
trates their philanthropy prima-
rily on Court Appointed Special
Advocate (CASA). This program
appoints lawyers to pick up chil-
dren.

Recently , they also orga-
nized the Pancake Breakfast with
Phi Psi and the 5K run with KA
to donate to charity.

 

 

Eran arnlutinn

ﬁiiﬁi 7.53-iV.§iE%..§§iIt.F?.35??  i.E3§.r;1.. liﬁ  iii‘.
iii? if Fiﬁ  ‘£333   i‘  !fii€i.|.§3i?»S
    ‘(FE-.  
 LEEKSE  ﬁ.I.'ii3 §t32'”Jt£53.i2?’ 
   F335 fsirili 

 

V:

C

 

It

 

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 2003

'3" ;Rixs::-*2r;n?ni
1 )lTORIAL

No sophomore donn counselors

Dean Futrell has announced that, this
year, the dorm counselor and resident
assistant positions will be open to fresh-
man, paving the way to sophomore dorm
counselors next year.

Her announced motivation is "that
most students who leave school do so
during the sophomore year. Allowing stu-
dents to be dorm counselors during their
sophomore year, Futrell reasons, will in-
volve them more intimately with the
Washington and Lee community and de- ’
crease the number of defections.

On face her reasoning is faulty. Will
students who are seriously considering
leaving W&L apply to become dorm
counselors in the ﬁrst place? Moreover,
of those who do, how likely is it that a
student so dissatisﬁed with W&L that he
is considering leaving will remain only to
fulﬁll his obligations as a dorm counse-
lor?

Also, does the school really want to
place its least enthusiastic students in
charge of reassuring recently-arrived
freshmen?

I Inaddition, the position of dorm coun-
selor has been traditionally reserved for
juniors and seniors because they, simply,
have more experience at the school and
are more able to counsel uncertain fresh-
man.

Also, sophomores are heavily in-
volved in rush and, unlike, older students
would be unable, through no fault of their
own, to provide objective, impartial ad-
vice to their curious residents.

Dean Futrell, please reconsider your
decision and continue to limit the ranks
of dorm counselors and resident
assistancts to well—qualiﬁed and time-
tested juniors and seniors.

 

mm m

 

PAGE 3

Puorooourmsvor lememfowg

THIS IS PRO-LIFE. The immense and far-reaching positive impacts that stem cell research could provide will far outweigh the negatives, if there even are any.

 

“Three months ago, Governor Dean was
saying what a Democratic principle it is to
have campaign ﬁnance reform. . .Now, Mr.
Change—Your-Opinion—for-Expediency is
saying, ‘Oh, I’ in now able to raise money.
Maybe we should get out of the system.”

~SenatorJolmKe1ry (D-Mass).
Gov.Deanisopting out of public
carnpaignfundingtoallowhirnselfto
spendunlirnitedfunds.

Science and technology areiwonderful and amazing things. No one who
has beneﬁted ﬁrst-hand from this can argue any differently. Today, the state
of things is a far cry from the days when the practice of medicine was associ-
ated with “bleeding” the evil humors out of people, evaluating a patient’s
prognosis in terms of omens and favorable signs, and believing germs were
nothing more than a fanciful notion. At the same time that cancer and other
diseases seem to be growing more common, so that you are hard pressed to
find someone that is not personally affected by it in some way, medicine is
also developing more advanced methods of treatment. Every week, there
seems to be a new breakthrough or “medical miracle” in
some ﬁeld. The entire human genome has already been
mapped, scientists are discovering what genes make a per-
son more susceptible to getting cancer or other diseases,
and promising new medications are constantly being devel-
oped. Nothing should stand in the way of science, if it has the ultimate goal of
saving millions of lives. Stem cell research has to be funded and given top
priority; otherwise a very valuable tool is going to waste.

Morality should always be questioned in new practices. Otherwise, things
could quickly get out of control. Cloning has serious implications, and it is a
practice that is correct in being halted and monitored. But stem cell research
should not be lumped into the same category. For some basic background:
stem cell research involves growing cells from human or embryonic stem cells
into a stem-cell line so that they can be studied. Through researching them,
scientists can see how healthy cells replace damaged ones which could even-
tually lead to the real possibility of generating cell-based therapies. Stem
cells are different and more beneﬁcial to the ﬁeld of medicine than regular
cells, because they are self-renewing for long periods of time through cell
division and can be altered into functioning like a beating cell of the heart

 

THE BIG PICTURE
ANNrF1NuzY‘07

muscle or an insu1in—producing cell of the pancreas. Embryonic cells are the
most promising. When a couple has problems with infertility, embryos are
created and stored for in vitro fertilization. The vast majority of these will
never be used and are eventually discarded or lose their potential. They have
only been studied since 1998- so this is a new and very promising ﬁeld that
could eventually cure or more effectively treat diseases like Parkinson’s, dia-
betes, and heart disease.

The valuable use of embryonic stem cells for research is almost viewed
today as similar to abortion. Yet, even abortion, (a much more severe and
questionable act), is allowed during the ﬁrst trimester of a
pregnancy and in cases where the health of the mother is
endangered. But think how many mothers and people in gen-
eral, stand to beneﬁt from stem cell research. And even though
I would probably agree with the idea of giving a life to save
millions, such is not even the case with embryonic research. The practice in
no way destroys a potential life; for it would only use those no longer needed.
If it is acceptable to let embryos go unused wouldn’t be even better for
scientists to use them responsibly in a way that could conceivably beneﬁt
millions?

Man must adapt to the times, and technology should always be given
free-reign to lead the way. Think where we would be today if medical research
had not been funded along the way. And think where we could be in the very
near future if our country would properly fund and support such a valuable
opportunity as stem cell research. Let’s not let an imaginary issue of morality
stand in the way of progress. Support Michael J. Fox and look out for the
future of yourself and those you care about. We may not be able to wipe out
disease entirely, but we must do everything in our power to help control and
treat it.

   

Editor in chief
Assistant Editor‘

News Editor

Opinions Editor

' Arts & Life Editor
Photography Editor
Asst. Sports Editors

Jeb Brooks

Kyle Was:

Erin Julius

Caley Anderson
Megan Morgan

Cody Gabbard

John Hyland

Chad Kiewiet de Jonge
Hilary Henry

Emily Edwards

Alexa Moutevalis
Kate Zawyrucha 5
Sarah Beth Campbell
Vanessa Amess
Aubrey Miner

Production Assistants

Copy Editors

Editorial Director Katie J. Howell

Business Manager
Circulation Director Henry G1-imball
Distribution Dir. Thomas Worthy

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during
the undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee
University, Lexington, Virginia. The Ring-rum Phi is a
member of The Publications Board, but is otherwise
independent.

The Ring—tum Phi welcomes all responsible sub-
missions and letters. All submissions must be e-mailed
to phi@wlu.edu or in the University Center mailbox by
5 pm. Friday to appear in the following week’s edition.
The Ring-tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions
for content and length. Letters and columns do not
necessarily reflect the opinion of The Ring-turn Phi
Editorial Board. Advertising does not reﬂect the opin-
ions of The Ring-rum Phi or its staff. This newspaper
observes current court deﬁnitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
University Commons Rm. 341
Washington and Lee University

Lexington, Virginia 24450

Telephone: (540) 458-4060
Fax: (540) 458-4059
Email: phi@wIu.edu

Paul Seifert

Quiet please, some of us are trying to study

“Every action done in company ought to
be done with some sign of respect to those
that are present.” This is the first and, I think,
most important rule in George Washington’s
110 Rules of Civility yet it is one people often
neglect. On Thursday night, my study buddy
decided to study in one of the booths in the

' marketplace. I love studying here because it
is cozy, comfortable, and most importantly,
peaceful. However, Thursday night lacked the
last element. Everyone was studying dili-
gently until a conversation erupted and cre-
ated a noisy downfall from that moment on.
First one male individual from behind us fin-
ished his studies and decided »
to leave, but he also decided
to make a pit-stop at the booth
infront of us and carry on a
regular conversation at a nor-
mal volume. This negligence got a little un-
der my skin.

But the night did not end here. It got
worse. My study buddy then politely asked
the two gentlemen to quiet down because
people were studying, which they did for 5
seconds. They then resumed their conversa-
tion at the same volume.

Then the next table down of four people
decided that it was time to take a study break
and started to talk freely, loudly, and pro-
fusely; and laughed and giggled in the same
manner as if there was no one else around, as
if there were not other individuals in the room
focusing on their studies. This did not stop,
despite the glares we often gave them along
with the other poor individual trying to focus

  

TRAIN or THOUGHT
TmKM‘OL

on her work. Just when I didn’t think things
could worsen, a new duo arrived at the chat-
ting club and rather than studying decide to
laugh and chat as if this was a nightclub rather
than a space where people were working. In
the meantime, my study buddy and I are still
whispering to each other, thoughil don’t know
for what reason.

These individuals (whom I hope are read-
ing this piece and recognizing themselves)
clearly disrespected thestudying space oc-
cupied by the other individuals. What they
did was rude, obnoxious, and incomprehen-
sible. How is it possible to see three people
reading intently into their
books and not discern that
maybe they're trying to con-
centrate? It only takes context
clues, something we learned in
elementary school, to understand the sce-
nario.

And now I am brought back to another
incident last month at the Leyburn Library. I
was sitting peacefully in the library in my little
carrel, meticulously studying for a journalism
class, when I hear a cell phone ring at what
I’m sure was the highest volume level.

But I wasn’t annoyed since I know that
people forget to turn their ringer or put it on
vibrate, but that feeling of understanding
quickly diminished.

Next, the female student proceeded to
carry a conversation on her telephone in the
library, in her carrel. I know I lack common
sense, but this action brought the expression
of “having no common sense” to’ a newer and

higher level. I was speechless. I was just
shocked that this would happen in a place
where I assumed every student had good man-
ners. Call me naive. ‘

This negligent behavior is simply put, an-
noying. It is infuriatingly annoying. In these
two scenarios, the behavior didn’t result in
detrimental consequences because I had the
courtesy to cool my temper, but in another
situation, the outcome may not have been so
mild.

Lack of social grace in business atmo-
sphere may cost a business client or leave
you ostracized. Regardless, you will forever
be known as the obnoxious loudmouth who
needs a muzzle.

Being loud when others are quiet exhibits
several unappealing traits about an individual.
I’ve already touched on the rudeness factor
so I won’t elaborate on that any further. You

appear self-centered because you are trying .

to draw attention to yourself by your loud-
ness. You appear to be inconsiderate because
you have obviously ignored the comfort of
those around you by imposing your loudness
on them. You also appear foolish because
you are misjudging the situation around you.
So I just urge everyone to please practice con-
sideration in your surroundings and use your
intellectual’ skills to observe the people
around you and analyze how people are be-
having. If people are obviously studying,
then take your conversations to a social place
where most people are talking. Astr I wrote
last week, appearances do matter. And none
of us want to appear to be obnoxious.

 

  

 

PAGE 4

  
  



Independent says rumors of Greek exclusivity exaggerated

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 2003

CDURTESY OF

SODA AND BEER. These students haven’t let their beveragatic differences come between their ability to have a great time together. Washmgton and Lee, fortunately, has no such problems either.

lam a Californian. lam a
non-drinker, a non-smoker,
and quite generally a non-
substance user. I am an inde-
pendent. Though I like to

think of myself as a moderate,

I tend to vote Democrat more
often than Republican. I am
economically middle class. I
don’t go to a whole lot of par-
ties. In other words, if I were
also gay and an ethnic minor-
ity, I’d be the most’ atypical
Washington and Lee student
ever. '

Coming into Washington
and Lee with all of these no-
tions about who I was, and
also with a lot of preconcep-
tions about how the Univer-
sity social life worked, I was
a bit scared during the Sum-
mer of 2002. 80% or so of
guys joined fraternities, and
I wasn’t planning on pledg-
ing. Pretty much everyone at
W&L seemed to drink, as I
learned on my campus visit
during my senior year of high
school. I, as mentioned ear-
lier, just don’t drink (don’t

0

get me wrong, I don’t think
drinking is wrong, heavens
no, it’s just something I pre-
fer not to do myself). The
school seemed to have a lot
of rich people with private
educations and monthly al-
lowances from their parents in
the quadruple (or, in one
case, quintuple) digits. I
come from a thor-
oughly . "middle
class background,
and additionally
from a run—down
public high school
that was unfortunate enough
to be shot up during my jun-
ior year there. All these ques-
tions and more weighed on
my mind as I reflected on my
differences from the typical
incoming General. Would I
take a lot of ﬂak for this?
Would I become a W&L out-
sider?

The answer, thankfully,
was a resounding no. The
myth of the Woods Creek in-
dependent hosting Magic:
The Gathering parties alone

in his apartment is just that-
a myth (LOTS of people come
to my Magic: The Gathering
parties.....just kidding). Sure,
a lot of people join Greek or-
ganizations here, and a lot of
people drink, but it doesn’t
exclude you from the univer-
sity as a whole if you don’t.
Nor does it piss off the people
who do
choose to

MODERATE’SMUSINGS participate.

My fellow
Wa s h i n g -
ton and Lee
students, frat/srat members
and independents alike,
could not have possibly been
nicer to me during my time
here. My status as an inde-
pendent is no barrier at all be-
tween the buddies and
friends I have who are broth-
ers or sisters. Nor does it
keep me from going to parties
when the urge takes me. I am
happy to report that a Wash-
ington'and Lee student on-
campus is a General first, and
a frat/srat member second.

I don’t go, as I said be-
fore, to many parties, but that
doesn’t keep me from having
a social life or friends, nor am
I ever bored. Besides study-
ing, my extracurriculars (fenc-
ing, SRC, Honor Advocacy,
the Ring-tum Phi, and a dozen
other things) keep me busy,
and allow me to meet a vast
array of new people every
day.

W&L, for whatever rea-
son, has a stereotype as be-
ing a rich kids’ school that’s
highly exclusionary if you’re
not a good ole’ boy or girl
from the deep south who en-
joys drinking...a lot. It’s a ste-
reotype that is quite simply
not true.
traditions, and sure, it has a
fair number of people that fit
the above description, but I
can tell you first-hand that
those peopleiare some of the
coolest and most accepting at
the school. I haven’t had an
alcoholic beverage since age
three, (when my mom tells me
I used to guzzle her wine

W&L has strong’

coolers) but that hasn’t nega-
tively affected me at all dur-
ing my time here. While I
can’t tell you what it’s like to
be a gay student or an ethnic
minority student at W&L
(that’s the job of the GSA and
MSA, respectively), I can tell
you that my differences from
a majority of W&L students
haven’t dampened my Lex-
ington experience at all. I
have nothing but positive
stories and mind-opening ex-
periences to relate to my
friends back home (I even
played a drinking game
against a frat brother on one
infamous occasion. As it
turned out, I ended up not
drinking at all during the
game, thus preserving my
nearly 17-year long streak of
teetotaling, but that’s a long
story).

The fact of the matter is,
at Washington and Lee, that
those of us who are members
of that more covert fraternity
known as Gamma Delta Iota
(GDI, for those of you who

are shrugging), enjoy the same
fun times and membership in the
Washington and Lee community
as everyone else does. In no
way do I, at least, feel excluded
by the rest of the campus. Not
even once has any single indi-
vidual given me a hard time
about my unorthodox way of life
here. Nor have I felt any pres-
sure to change my ways, al-
though certainly I get the feel-
ing'I’d get the same respectful
treatment that I do now if I did.
And I’m active on campus. I
know a lot of people, and vice
versa. I definitely have a high
level of involvement on—campus
without following the usual
method.

Everyone involved with
W&L, the alumni, parents, staff,
faculty, administrators, and cur-
rent students, should all be
proud of the institution that
W&L is. Prospective students
should not be afraid of the hype
that W&L gets as an exclusion-
ary school. Washington and
Lee is quite simply an excellent
college, and a fun place to be.

 

Write for the Phi!

The Ring-tum Phi is currently seeking individuals to ﬁll positions in all sections of the paper.

Interested individuals should contact phi @wlu.edu or call x4060

 

Interviews?
Internship?
Special occasion?

your best!!

and Sports Coats

Shirts, pants, shoes and all
accessories

Contact Adam Williams
for an appointment or
with questions
540-815-4557

Tom James Company

|Let us help you look and feel

Custom and Ready Made Suits

Student Packages Available

AmnWmm 

Get real-world sales, marketing
and management experience

Phi Business is currently looking for new staff

Call Paul Seifert at 458-4060 or

 
  

.---*-""'\.'

 

 New

      
 

‘ phi-business@wlu.edu

KYCHILD

CD

W W W.BOSSCITY.COM
617-436-5719

    

 

   
     

ll ‘hi :2, tom (task, 60 free!
ring Owtampus Rap:

l~8=0O~§a18-$3»¥9 ;‘ wv:w.:mmvcl.xom

 

#1 Spring Break Vacations!
Cancun, Jamaica, Acapulco, Bahamas,

Mazatlan, Florida, SPadre. 110% Best Prices!

Book Now & Get Free Parties & Meals!
_ Group Discounts, Now Hiring Campus
Reps! 1-800-234-7007
. endlesssummertours.com

V

 

  

](}lNHYIAl\D
AssirANrS1>oRisEi>rroR

FMAl[:HYlANI)@WllJH)U
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 2003

 

Womens’ soccer heads to regional fight  
with dominant ODAC championship play

BY KATHERINE SHELL
STAFF WRHER

Last Wednesday, the W&L women’s soccer team
beat Lynchburg 1-0 in Lexington to advance to the
ODAC ﬁnals. On Saturday, they defeated Virginia
Wesleyan 2-1 to win their second straight ODAC
crown and qualiﬁed to play in the NCAA Division HI
Tournament for the second time in W&L history.

In the semis, W&L and Lynchburg played a tight
first half to a scoreless tie. Ten minutes into the sec-
ond half, however, Generals forward Kerry Giblin ’06
scored on a failed clearing attempt by the Hornets.
W&L held onto the win, despite being outshot 12-4,
with the game ending in" a 1-0 score. Key in the Gen-
erals ability to hold off a potent Hornet offense was
junior goalkeeper Emily Barker who made 3 out of her
4 saves in the final minutes of the game.

W&L’s victory over top—seeded Virginia
Wesleyan in Norfolk came after the Generals con-
nected twice in the first half to open up a 2-0 lead.
Heather Rogers ’06 scored off an assist from Anne
Wilshire ’07 and Rebecca Cohn ’07 scored off an
assist from Fontaine Marcoux ’04. The Generals came
out ﬂying in the first half, out shooting the Marlins
8-1. It was Virginia Wesleyan, however, the seventh
ranked team in the nation that came out blazing in the
second half, out shooting W&L 10-1. However, they
were unable to get a goal by Barker until less than 10
minutes left in the game. The Generals defense, led
by Barker, who made 8 saves for the game, was able
to hold on to preserve the win. The victory for the
18th ranked Generals enabled them to avenge their
only loss of the season. They will enter postseason
play with a record of 15-1-2.

After the game, Giblin commented, “We played
really well together as a team, which is what has got-
ten us through this season.” The Generals hope that
it is this team chemistry that will carry them into the
NCAA tournament. The location, time and opponent
in the first round will be armounced later this week.

Tuesday, November 11

Wednesday, November 12

I Uimzsv SPORTS INFORMATION
ODAC DYNASIY. The Generals continue their winning ways by once again winning the ODACS.

Thursday, November 13

LAURA PONHER RJNG-ruivi PHI
CHAMPS. Freshrrian Anne Wiltshire takes on a defender in the Generals’ successful ODAC championship bid.

Voli.ey‘r3aij. captures fifth ODAC title in six years

Generals advance to NCAA
South Regionals ,
with dominating ODAC play

BY JOHN HYIAND
ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITOR

The W&L volleyball team continued their su-
premacy of the ODAC after capturing their ﬁfth con-
ference title in six years on Saturday. Their victory
over Bridgewater in the finals gave the Generals a
birth in the NCAA tournament.

En route to the finals, the Generals dominated
eighth seeded Virginia Wesleyan in the quarterfinals
on Friday night, on scores of 30-24, 30-18, 30-17.
W&L was led by junior outside hitter Emily Wolﬁng,
who tallied 12 kills, 5 digs and 4 aces and sophomore
Christine Gladysz, who contributed 33 assists and
ﬁve aces. The Generals once again cruised to vic-
tory in the semifinals on Saturday morning, ousting
fourth seeded Roanoke 30-21, 30-19, 30-22. W&L was
led by sophomore middle blocker Susan Gilliard, who
recorded 15 kills, junior outside hitter Michelle
Chastain added 13 kills and 12 digs. Gladysz added
37 assists, 14 digs and one ace. Bridgewater entered
the finals as the third seed after falling to the Gener-
als 3-1 in the regular season. This match would prove
to be much harder than W&L’s previous tournament
victories. In the first game, the Eagles hung tough
before falling 30-28 but were able to bounce back in
the second game to win 30-23. wit}! the score tied at
one, the Generals demonstrated the dominance that
allowed them to finish undefeated in conference play.
They took the third game 30-23 before cruising in the
decisive fourth game, 30-14. In the ﬁnals, Gilliard had
13 kills and 3 blocks and Wolﬁng added 12 kills, 18
digs and 2 aces. Gladysz once again paced the Gen-
erals with 46 assists, 3 blocks and four aces. She was
named to the all—toumament team along with Wolf-
ing who was also declared the tournament MVP.

W&L will enter the NCAA tournament with a
34-3 overall record after receiving votes for the na-
tional top 25 in the latest poll. As third seed in the
South Region, the Generals will face Aveiett on Thurs-
day at Trinity in San Antonio, Texas.

THIS WEEK’ s SCHEDULE

Friday, November 14

PAGE 5

Men lose

in ODAC final
to top seed
VirginiaWeslyan

BY JOHN HYLAND
ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITOR

The W&L men’s soccer team lost in the
ODAC tournament ﬁnals on Saturday night, drop-
ping a 3-1 decision to host and top seed Virginia
Wesleyan. Awin would have guaranteed the Gen-
erals a birth in the NCAA tournament but instead
their season concludes with a 7-6-4 overall record.

The Generals reached the finals after besting
sixth seeded Guilford in the semifinals on Friday.
W&L opened up the scoring when junior
midﬁelder Justin Mygatt found the net on a break
away 33 minutes into the game. The Generals ex-
tended their lead early in the second half on an
unassisted tally from freshman midﬁelder Rhett
McCraw. The Generals seemed to be cruising on
their way to the ﬁnals until the Quakers got on
the scoreboard off of a penalty kick with just 15
minutes to play in the game. Just ﬁve minutes
later, Quaker forward Brett Ralls headed homea
shot that beat Generals goalie Michael Stanton to
tie the game at 2. The score remained tied at the
end of regulation and through overtime as the
Generals were unable to connect on their three
shots on goal. The game entered penalty kicks
just as it had in the Generals quarterfinal upset of
second seeded Roanoke. Once again, W&L pre-
vailed, this time winning the PKs 6-5. Stanton’s
stop on the Quakers ﬁnal attempt sealed the game.
The sophomore made four saves on the day.

Virginia Wesleyan entered the ﬁnal with a 15-
3 overall record and a number 23 ranking nation-
ally. They ousted Rando1ph—Macon in the semiﬁ-
nals with a decisive 4-0 victory and had defeated
the Generals 2-0 in their regular season meeting.
The Marlins seemed poised to win the champion-
ship but were unable to capitalize on any of their
seven ﬁrst half shots with Stanton making two
saves. The Marlins came out on fire in the second
half, scoring twice in the first ten minutes to se-
cure a 2-0 lead. The Generals cut the lead in half
when Mygatt headed home junior forward Brian
Pirkle’s comer kick just ten minutes later. Pirkle
ﬁnished the season as the Generals leading scorer
with 18 points on 8 goals and 2 assists. However,
the Marlins sealed the victory on Kelvin MurrayTs
breakaway goal with 3 minutes left in the game to
give his team a 3-1 decision. Murray contributed
in every Marlin goal, finishing the game with two
goals and an assist. Virginia Wesleyan controlled
much of the game, out shooting the Generals 14-
6. Stanton made 4 saves in the loss.

Despite coming up short in the finals, the
Generals ended their season on a very positive
note. They barely qualiﬁed for the conference tour-
nament after losing ﬁve of their six games and
entering the tournament as the seventh seed in
the eight team tournament. After the game, junior
midﬁelder Josh Giahe commented, “we played a
great team today but we peaked at the right time
and played our best in the tournament.” The Gen-
erals will carry that positive play into next season
when they return virtually their entire team, in-
cluding 18 freshmen and sophomores, and only
lose senior midﬁelder Jacob Stoehr.

UPPBBT
Gtutnnis’
ntiiittics

Saturday, November 15

Sunday, November 16

0 Open 0 Open

0 VB vs. Averett at Trin-
ity-- TBA

- VB at Trinity--TBA

TBA

OVB at Trinity--TBA

0 FB vs. Greensboro--1:00
0 Cross Country at
Regionals--11 :00

0 Riding. at JMU/BC--

0 Open

 

 

 

 



 

Field hockey seaso nds with C tournam

Team falls to
Eastern
Menonite, 5-0

W&L Sponrs RELEAsE

NORFOLK, Va. — The third-seeded
Washington and Lee field hockey team
wrapped up the 2003 season on Friday, as the
Generals fell to second-seeded Eastern Men-
nonite University, 5-0, in the ODAC touma-
ment semiﬁnals, at Virginia Wesleyan.

The Royals (16-3) took a2—0 lead into half-
time and added a mo of goals after the break
to extend their lead. Senior forward Kristin
Moyer led Eastern Mennonite with a goal and
a pair of assists, while sophomore forward
J onalyn Denlinger led Eastern Mennonite with
two goals.

Sophomore Courtney Harrison (Rich-
mond, Va./Collegiate) and Elise Gelinas
(Rosemont, Pa./Agnes Irwin) split time in the
Generals (10-9) goal. Harrison made 10 saves
while Gelinas made one save.

Freshman Emily Chamelin played all 70:00
minutes for the Royals, making three saves.

The Generals ﬁnished the season with a

10-9 overall record and a 6-3 mark in the Old
Dominion Athletic Conference.

COURTESY SPORTS INIDRMATION

RUNNERS HEAD TO REGIONALS. On the heals of ODAC Runner of
the Year Andy Schorr, the Generals Cross Country teams head to
Atlanta, Ga. on Saturday to compete in the NCAA South/ Southeast ,
Regional Championships.

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 2003

 

I

No GOAL. The Generals bowed out of the ODAC Tournament Semiﬁnals with a 5-0 loss to Eastern Menonite University.

I“ 9- K5:

ent loss

  
      

  

Swimming earns a pairof victories at Catholic

W&L SPORTS RELEASE

WASHINGTON D.C. —
The Washington and Lee men’s
and women’s swimming teams
earned a pair of victories over
Catholic on Sunday. The Gener-
als’ men’s squad defeated the
Cardinals 123.5-81.5, while the
W&L women’s squad edged
Catholic 103-102.

The Generals men’s team (3-
0) was led by freshman Michael
Ginder (Jacksonville, F1a/Episco-
pal). Ginder emerged as the only
W&L multiple individual event

Football falls toeEmory and Henry

winner on the day with top hon-
orsinthe 200 Free (151.81) and a
ﬁrst-place tie in the 100 Free
(48.89). He also teamed up with
senior Eric Ritter (Birmingham,
Ala./Mountain Brook), freshman
Benjamin Accinelli (Dubuque,
Iowa/Hempstead) and senior
Drew Catanese (Southampton,
Mass./Suffield Acad.) for the
winning 400 Medley Relay
(3246.49).

Ritter also won the 200 Back
(2:01 .26), while senior Paul Laraia
(Houston, Texas/Memorial) hit

the wall first in the 200 Fly
(2208.92) and teamed with fresh-
man Kevin Hayes (Mercer ls-
land, Wash./Mercer Island),
sophomore Reed Evans (Greens-
boro, N.C./Greensboro Day) and
freshman Maxwell Pike
(Goldsboro, N.C./Wayne Coun-
try Day) for top honors in the 400
Free Relay (3 :30.87).

On the women’s side the
Generals(103-102) started the day
top honors in the 400 Medley
Relay when sophomore Keturah
Akida (Vmcennes, Ind./Lincoln),

sophomore Beth Sauer
(Reisterstown, Md./McDonogh),
freshman Abbie Sauter (Darien,
Conn./Darien) and sophomore
Kristine Holda (Strongsville,
Ohio/Strongsville) combined for
atime of 2:24.14.

Holda also won the 50 Free
(26.16) and Sauter won the 200
Breast (2235.01) to round out
W&L’s multiple event winners.

The W&L women’s team re-
turns to action on Tuesday, Nov.
18 when they host Hollins. Meet
time is 7:00 p.m.

 

BY CAMERON GARNER
STAFF WRITER

Despite leading 3-0 on an early Ben
Long 37-yard ﬁeld goal, the Generals
couldn’t come back from Emory and
Henry’s 34 unanswered points, and lost
34-16. The Generals were out rushed 195-
21 and out passed 247-159, even though
sophomore quarterback Greg Tweardy was
11-21 for 142 yards and a touchdown.

The Generals created turnovers in the
form of an Andrew Bahl forced fumble, a
Stewart Swann interception among oth-
ers, but couldn’t convert despite good ﬁeld
position. Fortunately, the offense picked

tip of the
week:

and after
playing.

 

§e:a*ar.saas§iaaatt2aaa.ca:a

Golf Etiquette

Golf is a sport:
make sure to
stretch before

HBPPY
Birthday

Allison!

Have a
great
21st!!!

  

Fliésliﬁ

£§a.c.».az:s. Laraeerezca Raressi.
?»"r=..«‘é¥££’<‘»”?KL?:'>'J&t4f.?tEi€ trier;-zine

$é§«§8’i'~3£4?

309 N. Main St. —  , VA 24450

Phi love
from
your

friends,

JEB!
KW, EJ,
MM, CA,



KH, HH,

   

it up in the fourth quarter, as senior quar-
terback Peter Dean hooked up with
sophomore running back Michael Lackett
for a two—yard score. Tweardy found jun-
ior wide receiver John Bamwell for an 1 1-
yard score with 4 minutes remaining. The
offense looked stronger as the game pro-
gressed, but couldn’t pull it out in the
end.

Defensively, the Generals had
trouble containing the run, in spite of a
l3—tackle effort from junior linebacker
Lloyd Wilson and a heap of turnovers.
The Generals drop to 2-7, 1-5 on the sea-
son, and return to ﬁnish the season at
home against Greensboro at 1:00 pm.

 

LSAT score
guar nteed  
or your money back“

Going to law sczhml in 2035? Prepare   LSKT
with  here. an eampua at W&l.'.ll

classes begin an Fabnm-y 23. 
Enroll  begin your
stuﬁns at any ﬁmeit

WnrldLeadorh'|'b8tPmp

rnjrhom-st

    

  
 

campm

g':_;é 'ft:indr'.<1is‘;rag made Simple, 5.11:‘: arid? -8‘-.|-ea».

15$;-§l3§3§# ’ftis.‘1§fi‘e‘s.i§ir')g  ayaéieileh. Me cssrmsiéuséz. 2.94:; an . .
Ft.eit.£§;z‘a9slrt§:.  we mag. -¢.§1.i35.’«klf{t‘-  wﬂhe Xﬁt: pg2.>§g!::&s‘¥l:t€ ﬁlm a.-\«a$._.=¥.

rr;.-g..~'3-'i:«iie;smr.<;-;;-.m-,,r;-;.- ca.r:a;ge i"rmtfm§.rir:g.

333--923-323-8 - ww-w..cam;:rus at?

 
   
 

, lust 

     

  

CG, JH,
CK,
B TK

 air requested-cusses or make-ran aessltma.
wmaleta all azittiadtmd mats,  ﬁt’: 
at your score §lCk‘l8T$"l mnrme an ma‘ my Time your
‘Kaplm dtagnbstie: at a  atﬁalal  mm.-., 
wnefmneemiiematmrrwgaamaiariraevorgeaa
{rail mm of gurrr-tisttbrie. T153 395 eligibtefur this after,
mu mist heemraaed at 9tenlm":a ma claaarnom.
ttiaeririx, at errilrra cmraea. in atldtmns. .9912 must
ereeem an iaéﬁatat cf sacsare wearer: and
eatm1tt:mir mums materials within 290 

41.:&t’f is .9   :51‘ 111052  Mm!  

 

KAPLAN

t-can-tar-rest
kaptestcain/law

Natural Bridge, Virginia—is there a town in
America that rivals the eclectic attractions it of-
fers? Not only can you ﬁnd the Natural Bridge
itself, one of the Seven Natural Wonders, you
can also visit the Wax Museum, the Safari Zoo,
Enchanted Castle Studios (temporarily closed,
sadly), and the Pink Cadillac. But
who knew that amongst the kitsch
and the endless tourist traps lies
the largest certiﬁed organic Asian
pear orchard on the East Coast?
It’s deﬁnitely worth a visit. What a fabulous
discovery———an internationally acclaimed and
recognized grower of gourmet foods only a few
miles down the road.

In 1990, Paul and YoungSuk Estabrook ar-
rived in Lexington from New Hampshire with their
two children and with ﬁve hundred Asian pear
trees in the back of a truck to start Virginia Gold
Orchards. The farm since has grown to include
over 4000 trees on twenty acres, but it remains a
family business.

Asian pears originated in western China,
spreading east to Japan and Korea (where Paul
first met YoungSuk when he traveled there on
business in 1972) and later was introduced to
the United States in 1850 by Chinese laborers in
California. Paul’s son, also named Paul, ex-
plained to me the common misconception people
have, believing the fruit to be a cross between
an apple and a pear. Asian pears are widely
known for their unique texture and sweetness
and are best eaten chilled and sliced. While many
fruits remain fresh for only a few days, Asian
pears will last for up to four months in the refrig-
erator.

Virginia Gold Orchards sells fourteen differ-
ent varieties of the fruit, from the Shinseiki (a
popular yellow fruit with sweet, crisp, juicy white
ﬂesh) to the best-known 20“' Century variety,

Doudou N’Diaye Rose comes to Lenfest

A

THE DISH
CARoLYNDU1=1=Y‘05

dripping with the sweet taste of autumn. My
favorite was the Atago variety, with orange rus-
set skin and a sweetness that is balanced with
the perfect amount of tartness. Under expert
hybridist YoungSuk’s careful hand, the orchard
also grows over twenty experimental varieties,
and they hope that at least one
will be ready for the public soon.
Try one of the Estabrooks’ vari-
eties and you’ll never go back
to plain old apples again. Gour-
met Asian pears are the ﬁne wines of the pro-
duce industry, their tastes and textures varying
dramatically from fruit to fruit.

The Estabrooks are committed to maintain-
ing the gourmet quality of their fruit (the orchard
was even featured in the 1999 edition of Gour-
met Magazine). But they also go to great
lengths to uphold the standards that make their
Asian pears “certiﬁed organic.” Paul stressed
the amount of “tender loving care” that each
tree and fruit receives. Father, mother, and son
comprise the entire labor force of the farm to
ensure the fragile harvest is handled delicately
and carefully, and every Asian pear is hand-
picked and inspected three or four times before
it is packaged for shipping. He explained the
importance of not using pesticides or fungicides
on the trees, wondering why anyone would eat
a piece of fresh fruit covered in poison. But
most orchards do in fact spray their trees with
chemicals in order to ensure a higher yield. By
growing his fruit organically without the use of
these harmful products, Paul sacriﬁces 25-50%
of his crop to insects and disease each year. To
the Estabrook family, though, the health ben-
eﬁts and the exceptional quality of the fruit are
well worth the extra effort. A

If you’re interested in purchasing Asian
pears, check out the orchard’s website at

&L1FE

V1sitV1rginia Gold Orchards, best—kept

MBGANMORGAN
ARlS&LIPEED1TOR

E¢lAl[:NDRGMWll@MUH1l

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 2003

‘__.-. . I
\



Rocbrie secret

OTO URTBY IRGINIA

JUICY. YoungSuk Estabrook holds one of the delicious Asian Pears that  Gold Orchards grows each
year. The farm, only a few minutes south on Route 11 from Lexington is certainly worth a trip.

www.virginiagoldorchard.com. Buy a box for
yourself, or keep the holidays in mind. . .your par-
ents would love a box of delicious, gourmet, fresh
fruit grown right here in Lexington. The
Estabrooks would prefer you place an order
online, but you are also welcome to stop by the
orchard any day from 10 am to 5 pm. Prices can be
found on the website. Virginia Gold Orchard also
sells homemade honey, Asian pear marmalade and
jelly, and homemade Asian tea syrup that I have
been told works wonders as a cold remedy.

Paul’s son admitted that they “like being the
little secret of Rockbridge County. It’s rewarding
that people come from so far away to visit and
buy our fruit, and then keep coming back.” Vir-
ginia Gold Orchards has made quite a name for
itself in only thirteen years, especially consider-
ing they do no advertising and rely primarily on
word-of-mouth and people’s own curiosity. I
couldn’t keep their secret safe for long
though...stop by and try some Asian pears and
you won’t be able to keep it a secret either.

Mock Convention

LD CHARDS

BY KATHERINE SHELL
STAFFWRITER

Doudou N’Diaye Rose
and the Drummers of West
Africa will travel from Dakar,
Senegal to perform in Lexing-
ton/at the Lenfest Center on
Sunday, November 16, 2003 at
7:00p.m.

Doudou N’Diaye Rose
and the Drummers are
known world-wide as the
most famous sabar drum-
mers in the world. The
sabar drum is the most
common instrument of
Senegal, and is used at a
variety of events such as
family gatherings, Catholic
church meetings and po-
litical rallies. It is played
in celebration of major
events.

Doudou Ndiaye Rose
and his thirty eight chil-
dren are all accomplished

sabar drummers. Indeed,
Rose’s drumming company
consist entirely of his fam-
ily members, and at times
contains up to one hundred
of his children and grand-
children.

For the past fifteen
years, Rose has traveled all
over the world, conducting
various companies and
performing concerts in
various countries. He has
collaborated with famous
musicians and helped com-
posed songs with various
artists. Over the years, he
has conducted many in-
strumental groups and led
concerts on stages across
the world.

Recently, his group has
traveled the world with their
beautiful, rhythmic songs
and has played in various
capitals of the world. Last
May, they were the opening

act of the Fiftieth Annual
Cannes Film Festival.
Tickets will be on sale
next week from Monday to Fri-
day, noon to four, at the
Lenfest Center Box Office or
can be purchased or reserved

over the phone by calling 45 8-
8000. Tickets will also be
available two hours prior to
the concert. Tickets are lim-
ited.

Please call the Lenfest
Center for more information.

*0¢¢¢¢¢¢<l>¢<l><l>¢¢¢¢¢¢¢¢¢¢¢¢¢¢¢¢¢¢¢¢¢¢¢¢%

in an

Triple Nine Society
Founded 1978
Extraordinary camaraderie

Work for the Phi.

fall gala approaches

BY STEVE LAMB
STAFF WRITER

This Friday, November the
14"‘, Mock-Con will host a Gala
to kickoff the beginning of
what guarantees to be yet an-
other successful Washington
and Lee Convention.

The event will be Black Tie;
however ladies are not required
to wear white dresses as rumors
claim TheGalawilltakeplacein
Evans Hall from 8:30pm to
12:00am and will feature the
swing and jazz tunes of Big Ray
and the Kool Kats.

One of the chief aims of the
Gala is to help raise funds for
the Convention in January. Gala
packages, which include two
tickets to the Gala, two T—shjrts,
two posters, and two wine

glasses, will be sold in the Com-
mons for $60 starting Monday
and ending Thursday.

The Gala will also involve
an auction where party—goers
will have the opportunity to win
gift—certif1cates to shops and
restaurants around town (The
Southern Inn and Pumpkin
Seeds among others) as well as
gift baskets (such as a Royal
Cup Coffee Gift Basket). In
terms of dinner, plan on dining
at Fraternities prior to the
dance; freshman should re-
ceive invitations for dinners
starting next week.

The Mock Convention
Gala promises to be one of the
most enjoyable social events
of the year, so ﬁnd a date and
get ready for this patriotic

P311)’-

Meetings every Monday at
5:15 p.m. in University
Commons Room 341.

international society of peers.
99.9th percentile:
old SAT 1450, new SAT 1520,
GRE 1460, MAT 85;
see complete list at:
www.ti1'p|enine.org

guarantee
or your money back“

Submit
your
anonymous

University
Cleaners

THE CLEANEST or THE CLEAN.
CALL US FOR ALL or YOUR DRY CLEANING
LAUNDRY AND ALTERATIONS NEEDS

Prepare for the Andi mod HIGAI
with I-(aplm item on campus. at WKLII

classes beget Jmuary 10. 
Enron   October 3131' and receive
on-vllne  Review FREE!

Quick Hits

WI.:I1I.|I.»%rhTest..Prs9

KAPLAN

Mn-nirsi
itaptest.eom/rimmed

«min a nzixmsmi ummmt-gnu Inna’:-sans nhumma
Manual  .

 -an suutred ciusaus or manna sessions.
eamplama all aeiieduted mas. mdmyour 
8!’ your score uoesnft lmome an was any firm your
icuplan diagnostic at a paler afiiclal meat same. you
can rmawtmepeat ourpzwm forttaemgaiza
£134!  af ymJr‘t,l£.5!5lT.ll.'e5.~. ‘la in aélgihle -vb: taxis: 
we must be emiéad at itaiilarrs its claseremi.
#.I.£orl¢.'i$., 98! mllm attlataaﬁo lh iatldltitllit. Numm
girasam an arms:  ar;:,w- scan:  an-.1
M:lm‘llt‘yo'al! mum: maomaismmin W 

Great Service
First—Rate Quality

to

phi@wlu.edu

7 North Jefferson Street
463-3622

dry cleaning,
laundry, alterations

 

PAGE 8

THE El

 

MEGANMORGAN
AR'IS&l.lFEEDlIOR
 m

ORD

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 10, 2003

Lexington Police Department ‘does their job’

BY ]i=.B BROOKS
EDITOR IN CHIEF

The following sentence is one of the most
important ones you will ever read. If you are
stopped by an officer of the law, do exactly as he
says. Common sense, I know. But, I frequently
saw people ignore police officers just a few days
ago during my ride-along with the Lexington Po-
lice Department. The experience proved enlight-
ening.

The officers in the Lexington Police Depart-
ment aren’t as awful as they are sometimes por-
trayed. In my experience, they were nice guys with
a tough job to do. I also found that for the police to
stop someone, the exhibited behavior had to be
egregious. Individuals who were stopped by the
police during my time in the right seat were dis-
playing extremely unsafe or disruptive behavior.
Ofﬁcers gave people the benefit of the doubt on
more than one occasion.

Here are just a few stories from my incredible
experience. ‘

One couple was pulled over after swerving
on Nelson Street. The ofﬁcer administered all of
the standard DUI tests, including the Alcosensor.

This machine is the ﬁeld test, which you should
never refuse. The results are not admissible in
court and blowing over the legal lirriit of .08 can
only buy you time (during which your BAC is
likely to go down) while you are transported to
the jail for another test. The test beneﬁted this
driver in another way. She blew under the legal
limit, but was still not “safe” to drive. Rather than
force the couple to walk back to their hotel, the
officers would have happily driven their car home
for them. Because I was there, I was asked to
drive them.

Many residents of Lexington believe that
the police target them. The Veemies are con-
vinced that W&Lers get away with murder. The
townies think that Veemies can do whatever they
please. The law students are convinced that
undergrads have all of the fun without any re-
percussions. Since everyone believes they are
being targeted, the police department probably
does its job well. In reality everyone receives
equal treatment.

Take, for example, a group of law students who
were hosting a Halloween party on Friday night. The
police followed exactly the same procedure they use
to shutdown our panies. When a noise complaint

Touiusr TRAP

came in (from the nursing—home across the street), the .

police issued a warning: if they had to return, the
party would be shut down. Sure enough, another
complaint came in and the party was over. As the
host was leading his classmates out of his house he
made a surprising

happily transported the group to their houses just
outside of town.

The Lexington Police Department is made up
of some really great guys. I promise you that if
you make the effort to get to know them, they’ll

help you out.

comment. He said,
“everybody out,
we’re not under-
graduates. We don’t
get special privi-
leges.” Likeus mea-
sly little undergrads,
the law students are
convinced that the
police target them.
Several stu-
dents witnessed
more evidence of
the Lex—Po’s kind-
ness after Traveller
had stopped for the evening. We were driving down
Jefferson Street only to find a large group of stu-
dents who had gathered at the bench at the War
Memorial in hopes of a ride. The Lex—Po came to
the rescue. Ofﬁcer Smith and Sergeant Miller both

Saturday afternoons in the

 

They want to be our
friends. Please, let
them. Anytime you get
the chance to stop and
talk to a police officer,
just do it. They are a
hard working bunch of
guys who care a lot
about each of us. After
my ride-along, I have
come to realize that the
police truly aren’t as bad
as we sometimes make
them out to be. I prom-
ise.

By the way, because of the ride—along, I am
now seriously considering a career in law enforce-
ment.

Please let me know what you think about the
Lexington Police Department at brooksj @wlu.edu.

Bring back future trophy wives club

Would that the Future

JEE Bxooxs Tm RING-TUMPHI

ROAR. It might surprise many students that dinosaurs are roaming the
mountians  a few rriiles from Lexington. Glasgow, Va. is home to many
ancient creatures like this one that the cowboy has captured. A visit to this
community  down Interstate 8 1 will introduce tourists to prehistoric
creatures. Calling itself “the town that time forgot,” Glasgow is worth a trip
to see the many dinos. While you are in that neck-of—th-woods, be sure to
check out the many exciting attractions in nearby Natural Bridge.

Trophy Wives Club (FTWC)
had been more than a cruel
joke. If there’s one thing the
women of W&L need, it’s a
support organization to
assist them in finding,
choosing
a n d
attracting
the proper '
mate. The
F'I‘WC would fill a gaping
hole in W&L student
services.

The average W&L co-ed
is, no doubt, completely
clueless about where to begin
ﬁnding a husband. Should
the doe-eyed woman looking
to land a man hang out at
fraternity parties or suck
down libations in the Palms?
Maybe she would have more
luck joining the Colonnade
Club or batting her eyes at
passers-by in the Co—op? How
about endlessly climbing the
Stairmaster in the Fitness
Center or donning her
sundress and spending

  

stands at Wﬂson Field?
Naturally, how is a girl
expected to know where to
begin ﬁnding a husband, let
alone narrow her search to
the most fruitful avenues?
This is where the

 AISLE" FIWC can help.
BREIT KIRWAN ‘O4

"""""""""""""""""""""""" N the campus for

The Club had
planned to scour

the most eligible bachelors
and make these men available
to interested women in one,
easy to access and
understand location. Perhaps
the FTWC could publish a
catalogue or maintain a
website with photos,
commentary and a running
estimate the bachelors’ net
worth and anticipated
inheritance.

A well-managed and
effective FTWC could
liberate W&L’s women from
shadowy fraternity
basements and the noisy Co-
op. No doubt, campus rates
of venereal disease and

sexual assault would looks (one must be
decrease since Lady Generals concerned with the children),
would no longer feel career and affability wouldbe

obligated to chain
themselves to a can of Natty
in fiat basements. As an aside,
the effects would be negative
for the campus fashion police
since campus co-eds would
be locked in their rooms
pouring over the FTWC
facebook rather than
attempting to attract the
wandering eye of frat guys
with Lilly prints.

In re: choosing a suitable
husband, the FTWC could
prove useful in providing
curious young ladies with
criteria to choose a husband.
For example, while Beirut
prowess may set one apart at
off-campus parties, it should
hardly be decisive in
choosing one’s life partner.
An FTWC-provided
checklist would clarify for
uncertain schoolgirls what to
really look for in a mate. Net
worth and inheritance would,
no doubt, top the list, but

highlighted above less
important factors such as
fraternity affiliation and
whether one is Southern or
not. (Let’s be honest, for
trophy wives, money matters
and no one cares what side
of the Mason-Dixon line one
was born on.)

Finally, the FTWC would
prove to be virtually invaluable
in helping hopeful young girls
attract the man they have
chosen. Currently, an
ambitious lass has only so
many avenues to pursue
before she gains an unsavory
reputation. The FIW C would
makeavailabletoW&Lwonien
more options by hosting
receptions and arranging dates
between desirable suitors and
desiring darnsels.

All in all, the organizers
of the FTWC should really
reconsider making the Future
Trophy Wives Club more
than just a prank.

Muslims find Ramadan difficult to obey in Lexington

BY KELLY Jo LARSEN
STAFF WRITER

Imagine if only a hand-full
of people around you celebrated
Christmas. For example,thinkof
a world in which no one cared
about Christmas Weekend or
sang Christmas carols. Think of
a place where not only did no one
ride Christmas trees down the
stairs but they didn’t even hang
up decorations. Think of not
going home for mom’s turkey,
fudge or Christmas cookies.

Currently, Muslim’s across

the world are celebrating
Rarnadan—one of the two major
holidays of the Muslim faith.
Most people on our campus are
probably oblivious to Ramadan
and most of us probably don’t
even known what Rarriadan re-
ally is. To find out more, I sat
down with Elham Moharrinied, to
find out more about this holiday.

Elham is currently a sopho-
more working toward a Computer
Science major. Her parents are
from Eritrea, a country that was
part of Ethiopia until 1993, but
she was born in Sudan. Living in

Alexandria, Virginia, for the last
twelve years, Elham and her fam-
ily have been active members of
the Muslim community and of a
local Mosque.

Ramadan is celebrated in the
ninth lunar month of every year-
this year, October 27 through No-
vember 27. During this time, cel-
ebrators fast from sun up to sun
down. The Muslim day is marked
by ﬁve prayers, and a person can
eat before the first Morning Prayer.
Elham points out that during
Ramadan “you are basically cut-

and the ﬁnal prayer, people join
together in feasts of celebration.

Since the lunar calendar
doesn’t line up directly with the
calendar in popular use today, the
dates of Ramadan can change
from year to year. Elham notes
that if Ramadan lands during the
summer months, fasting becomes
much more difficult—the sun
comes up earlier and does down
later.

A celebration of faith, Mus-
lims during Ramadan strive to live
a holy life through not cheating,
stealing, or lying and concentrat-

ing more on their religious life
than their daily struggles. The
end of Ramadan is marked by a
huge three day party, known as
the Eid. When she lived in Alex-
andria, Elham celebrated her faith
with a large circle of her family
and friends and she remembers
the Eid quite fondly; she had to
miss it last year because Ramadan
ended during finals week, but
hopefully she will be able to at-
tend this year during Thanksgiv-
ing break.

To help explain the impor-
tance of Ramadan to Muslims,

Elham suggests that “[to us]
Ramadan is like your Christmas.”
Since there is no Mosque in Lex-
ington, and the closest one is in
Roanoke, Ramadan can almost
slip people by. Muslim students
at W&L face an added challenge
of celebrating when no one else
even seems to notice. Still, Elham
works to embrace her Muslim
identity and remember the true
meanings of Ramadan. So, if you
see her or any of the other Mus-
lim students or faculty on cam-
pus, wish them all a splendid and
happy Ramadan!

ting out lunch.” After sun down

“'13

Q Why do girls look so much better in frat base-
ments than they do the next morning?

 

(1) Walking into the first ﬂoor men’s room in
Robinson Hall has been the most intense experi-
ence of my time at W&L. They should serve
sarsparilla.

(1) Ashley Sims, marry us. Please!

(I) TFC: Rush is almost over, do you really think
you are tough enough to pledge KA?

(1) Where's Waldo or candy canes: The verdict is
still out.

(1) Although she may not be Ms. Right, she’ll do
Right Now.

Q Does a one-legged duck swim in a circle?

Q Can we please spring for some Charmin extra
soft toilet tissue in the freshmen dorms? That little
extra sofmess goes along way.

Q Thanks to the angels who fold other people’s
laundry in the freshmen dorms, instead of dumping
it in a pile like the rest of you inconsiderate jerks.

Q Would the freshman who used the HV line on
Helen Hughes please reveal himself? I’d like to bid
him.

Q Next time the Phi covers the men’s swim meet,
could the photographer get a picture of the men’s
team? The VMI meet was scored for the men only,
you know.

Q For any guy who doesn’t have a date to the
Mock Con Gala: You’re about to experience that
wonderful W&L tradition, the Snap Date. I guaran-
tee that a few girls you know aren’t taken yet. So
find them and ask one. She’ll be grateﬁil.

Q More on the Gala: Tickets are available all this
week in the Commons from 10-3.

Q Future Trophy WlVeS ! ?! If it’s a joke, it’s really
funny; if not, please join me in administering a well-
deserved slap.

Q Giants of Science face paint: creepy or enter-
taining? Discuss among yourselves.

Q The next person who tries to sneak alcohol
into a Traveller van after being told to leave it be-
hind will be reported to the administration

Q Why is the Theta house decorated for Christ-
mas before Thanksgiving?

Q To: Physical Plant

Re: Light in the Old SPE House

Turn off that *&"$(#light, already! How much
electricity has been wasted?

Q Carving pumpkins is for elementary school-
children, not the Cadavers.

Q The most exciting part of any J asiewicz class
is, hands-down, the roll call.

Q I dont’ care what Texans think about their high
school football. I’d put the best teams in northeast
Ohio, who play in the ice, snow and rain, up against
any team from the Lone Star State.

Q Clip-on bow ties are no more permissable than
clip—on neckties. They both should be reserved for
pre-teens.

Q Why doesn’t W&L have a mascot?

(I) This past week was the 483rd anniversary of
the Stockholm Bloodbath. Doesn’t that strike you
as a bit of an oxymoron— something interesting
happening in milquetoast Sweden?

Q Attention SRC: Hire fewer tour guides. Two
per time is enough.

Q Today is Rutgers’ 237th anniversary.

Q Freshmen are still wondering: What did Phil
Walotski do to become the campus pariah?

Q Caitlin Mitchel, ‘05L, derives, in a
Sarnsonesque matter, power from her hair.

Q Kudos to all the sorority women for throwing
great forrnals this weekend.

Q Shout out to Weebs.

Q News from the Weekly World News: President
Bush is planning to cancel February.

Q Does “Jesse’s Girl” have to played at every
fraternity party on campus?

Q Mt. Cook is the highest point in New Zealand.

Q E-mail your anonymous Quick Hits to
phz'@wlu.edu.

 

 

I
Napster Penn State Wm WM
9
0
~ strike download deal
BY ELIZABETH ECKMAN u‘ 3 IP:““SS ‘Sel"_‘t‘1:°’ Eff;
gressman amar mi sai ,

d STAFF WRHER legal online music marketplace,

on Novemhero, Penn state one that compensates artists
and Napster made a revolution— and Offers listeners high-qual-
ary agreement to provide a le— ity music, is what we all want to
gal way for students to down- See ﬂourish.”

‘ load music for free. Napster will According to his Press.re-
offer their premium service to lease, Congressman Howard
Penn State students at no cost. Bermall Said, “I hope Other uni-

The agreement allows students versities wrestling with ways to

‘ to download tethered music unclog their bandwidth will
from Napsteﬁs 500,000 music 1i- adopt the model pioneered by
brat-y, listeh to over40 radio sta_ Penn State. By providing their
tions, and access other pre- students with low-cost access
mium features for no cost. To to legal music, on the one hand,

I download music permanently and taking action to stop pirati-
in ordef to bum CDs or trans- cal activity on the other, univer-
fer music to a portable device, Sities can return their bandwidth
students pay 99 cents per song_ to the educational reasons for

The new program will be which it was created.”

“ offered beginning January 12, Many Penn State students,
2004, the first day of Penn are skeptical about the new
State’s spring semester, and will agreement-
primarily be offered to students Student Terry Rose, at

5 living in residence halls in Penn State’S College Park Said,
about a dozen of Penn state “The consensus here of the ma-
campuses_ The Penn State- jority Of students is that it l
Napster agreement is the first won’t work. It’s useless be- H l  i J OOK5 
of its kind and many universi- Cause We haVe t0 Pa)’ f0r it- Galatime! Thedininghallwas ﬁlled beyond capacityFr-idayeveningashundreds of students dancedthe night away at theMock Convention

' ties are researching similar pro— Napster Controls the type 0f Presidential Gala. This was amajor fundraiser for the Mock Convention, at $30 aticket. By most all accounts, the event was a great success
grarris to offer to their students. music that Will he ai/ailahle. W8 and everyone thoroughly enjoyed themselves as they danced to  times. Now students may look forward to the main event: the 2004
The hope is that these types of not freedom because We’re pay- MockDernocratic Convnentionto beheldjanuary 30 arid31. Organizersare hard at work tomakesurethatthespeakers and event are as much
mergers will aid in reducing il- ing for a limited SerViCe- We’re of asuccess asFriday’s festivities. See page 7 formorememorie.sofMoc/e Con. '

u 1ega1ﬁ1e sharing still going to use  '

! d O O t I 1 C O 1 I O
I I BY CAI-EY ANDERSON Williams, have all seen sharp increases in pla- Students handle the entire process from start blatant plagiarism will usually get a student a
o1>1N1oNs1~;D1'1‘oR giarism, but nationwide academic policy is so to finish, and professors have no power to pun— warning first, depending on the case, and a sus— _ - ‘_ -
confused on - ish the stu- pension after that. ’
Plagiarism, as understood by most of the this issue that dents (other , Qther schools hgve similar policies. Most

‘ English-speaking world, is the theft of other each college than through schools give their students at least one sec-
people’s ideas, words, and thoughts in writing, has a different the grade of 0nd chance, often citing a “lack of knowledge
speech, or otherwise. policy. the assign— of proper citation methods,” according to a

This concept is important to the entire aca— At Wash- merit in ques— study on the subject conducted by the Univer-
demic community, and especially so at Wash- ington and Lee, tion). sity of Indiana.

q ington and Lee, for plagiarism is considered an of course, pla- Amherst, on The schools that expel students on the first
Honor Violation by the current Executive Com- giarism of any the other offense tend to be schools with fewer students
mittee. Indeed, from reading those ominous kind is viewed hand, assigns and smaller campuses, and especially schools
posts the EC makes around campus on occa- as an Honor power for with strong honor systems or codes, such as
sion, most Honor Violations these days are pla- Violation to be p u n i s h i n g W&L or our neighbor, VMI.

‘ giai’ism'icluicd- Punishcd only Plaginfilcfs to Many worry that first offense expulsions may

But many professors and academic types by the Single its Dean of he unfair to students who are not aware ofproper

have different deﬁnitions of plagiarism. Some
feel that a student can be guilty of plagiarism
unintentionally, through failure to cite sources.
Some think that it can only happen when a stu-
dent consciously takes an idea from another. As

Sanction- ex-
pulsion. Even
failure to cite
can be viewed
as plagiarism,

~,R"WC§“1“l‘lllllPrH

7726 student voice of Washington and Lee University since I 897

M6 It
VoLUMECVlI,N0.Vlll
MONDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 2003

 
   

 

Student Con-
duct. Punish-
ment is effec-
tively left to

 

]EBBRO0KS/  UM HI

 

the discretion

citation methods, and thus may be intending to
credit the original holders of an idea, but fail to
do so unintentional. »

So far, the issue has not come up in‘.

the Executive Committee this year, as all

we currently look at lZl')6 iSSllB,  t0 cite pl'0p- as tllﬁ  . Of this Uﬂi-  expulsions have effectively been
oily constiiuics Plagiarism makes it al3uu- D°y°ui'_°WnW°i'lfl ldioicssofs aioundhhccouuuyhclleyctustasiudciu Vcrsity 0ffi' placed upon students who intentionally stole

‘ It’sanimportant issue to many colleges. The dantly clear canbegmltyofp1ag1ansmunmtent1ona1ly,throughfa1luretocitesources. cial, and pla- ideas, The policy becomes more closely
top three Liberal Arts colleges (according to the (even going so ' giarism can examined with every case nationwide, and
latest edition of U.S. News and World Report’s faras to publish an easy plagiarism reference avail- get you anything from a warning to expulsion, Washington and Lee may soon have to examine,
college rankings), Amherst, Swarthmore, and able to students) what it considers plagiarism. though Amherst’s penalty guidelines say that and perhaps revise, its own piagiarisrn po1icy_

' ' ' ' ' w d h d ff '

EC revising Constitution, La stu ent spear ea s e ort to bring
. r 0 o .

. law students voice complaints Vagina Monologues to Washington and Lee
BY ERIN JULIUS cem about the fact that the en- - - i - -
EDITOR are Sudemhbody dude, hue Proceeds from the play Wl/l be given to the local women s shelter, Project Horizon

a Say lll W 0 ascell to C ‘ BY COURTNEY BERRY the eneral area of Lexin ton. The chari has et to be de-

I Tonight there is to be an roles or: Vice President and Sec- STAFFWRHEB cidefl. In 2003, thousandgs of V-Day benetfit evehts executed
Il_5l:f1°l:ltl;:1C°m?lne1e l_1’Il:? llt)‘ l°tal_ll’_'h d t f th _ _ worldwide generated $4 million in proceeds.

a _ aw Sc 00 ’ 5 al 0 . 6 ll Vall age 0 e As ihc inch of the inusiachc sociciy PicPai'c to shayc it till ' Jillian DiLaura, a Washington and Lee Law student, is
lllal Wlll°_h ‘was held fl” fiurreui succession of °fﬁ°°r5 Off, the Washington and l-c_c community Will ‘continuc to misc spearheading this year’s production and encourages anyone

[ lllldl:gl:“lS_ll_lmetC?11mn]:lglElasl ls tllgriltthlstethlil-l°l;ft llllll  awnrcncss of Violcncc against Womcn and girls by Picpaiing who is interested to get involved with the local production.
wee ' evlslolls 0 '3 °ll' all 6 a 6 0 lcel W e for The Vagina Monologucss Which Will he Pcifoimcd on cam‘ She insists that a greater range of people are needed than
Sllllllloll Wele lllscllssell lll last alll°lllbe_l°ftll°_EC' Cllllelltly’ Pus in Fchi'u3—i'y- _ _ . . only those who possess a ﬂair for the dramatic. People who
week S opell follllll’ wlllcll was lll°_EC ls looklllg a_t several l-nst Wcdncsday an organizational meetmg Was hold in do not wish to act onstage can assist with publicity, ticket

I allelldell °“l¥ by members ofllle °Ptl°llS' _0ll° W°l_lld lllvolve 3 the Commons to start PTcPuiing for thc 2004 sales, costumes and anything else needed be-

.’ Ca.I1’1[})Eil(i grieddig. tH 1 H gh scflgool-wideti=.lect’ii(l>n to ﬁlidhe primarily student-run production of The Va- 7beWMmwbgu5 hind_rhe_soenes_ DiLanra also said that you
. Sl en eel] u es 0 lee-l SP0 W l 6’ allo cl gin“ Monologues Thc ihcmc for this ycans . . . ’ need not be a female to help the cause.
attributes theupoor attendance would have the election be production, to be held in mid-February, is the aplay 0I‘1g1I13.llyWI‘1ttCI1 by V_Day materialized in 1993 in response to
lo’ _C°lllllllllll°all°ll golllg °ll held Wlllllll the EC and lllell Vagina W3ii'ioTs- Eve Ensier is art of a crippling statistics of women being violated
behind the scenes " d th f t h another election to fill the - - ' ’ P

u “ u , all 6 ac 3Vc _ Real-life testimonials from ‘women around lobal movement to end and sought to become a force against that vio-
that’. a 1;” Of tlhe C0tI:lfieH1tSVXere SP0t oﬁthe ileprfeffentalglive who the WOI'ld Will be read  Washington and L66 g 1 di d - lcnce. Over the years, V.Day has grown expo-
°°u‘u‘g ’°’“ aw -3 en 5- ‘n°"c “P ° ° ‘ms P- students in the Elrod Commons Theater. Expe- vio ence recte at Women nentially and has‘ become somewhat of phe-

Justin Arnold, the  s I uevisions of the EC Con— rionoos of hundreds of women from 40 Conn- and girls uomeudu, enabling the organization to pro_
second-year law representative stitutioii are taking place be- mes comprise the script, Vida funding to hundreds of programs amuu d

I ggiccs that ihc (liaw siudcnis caugctsh 1:  icctc£iitlyddi’scoy(; The Vagina Monologues, a play originally the world that strive to protect women.

ave ellplesse collcellls’ ale 3 l S oll a C ’ Sal Wfiiicn hy l3Ve 13115161‘, is Part of 3 global moycmcnt to end As Washington and Lee performs The Vagina Monologues
Many Students have ex‘ Hughes‘ The Conutltltlllon violence directed at WOIIICH and girls.  global IIIOVCITICIII February  and 12, thg Same Stories  be resounding from a
pressed Concerns to me about mentlons the Publlcatlons COIIICS in the f0I'l'Il Of V-Day, 311 international organization  Masai village in Kgnya and a Lakota resgfvation in South D3.

,, thc succcssion of ofiiccis cl‘ Board, for cxamplcv Which is the singular goal of ending violence against women and girls. kota_

i lllel Vla e'lllall ol pelS°llally’” llow llle Mellla Boald‘ l996 “V0 ycais ago the Washington and Lcc community Pro- The Vagina Warriors will relate experiences of war rapes
lle Sald’ “l tlllllk llle Sllccessloll was the last tlllle levlslolls duccd 3 hcncfii Pciioimancc of The Vagina Monologues and female genital mutilation and cigarette burns in female skin. ,
of officers issue has made law were made; the Constitution raised pI'OCCCdS benefiting PI'0jCCt HOfiZOﬂ, LCXiIlgtOI1lS bat- Enslef says that the \,/aging Warriors are through  be-
students more Cuiluus about says nothing about how ouch tered women’s shelter. ing victims. She says that they realized no one is coming to

5 the Ellecllllve C°lllmlttee“‘lell' ll must be leVlSell' This ycais the goal is to misc $oa000- A Pcfccntagc of the rescue them so they have to rescue themselves.

Pcct that law students who at— profits will be given to the national V-Day campaign to benefit The Vagina Monologues is one action they are taking to
tend the forum Will cXPicss con‘ See EC: Page 2 the Missing Women of Juarez charity and the rest will stay in reach their goat

 

I ': ‘ L‘.  .:-;
 rmupwrtv
.: ‘M 

 

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 2003

 ﬂ-H; ‘Y? W‘ .

Teacher spoke about experiences with poverty, homeless

BY KATHERINE SHELL
SENIOR STAFF WRITER

Katie Murphy, a high school
teacher at Archbishop ‘Carroll
High School in Washington,
D.C., spoke Monday night in the
Science Center about her experi-
ences with poverty, hunger and
homelessness. Murphy volun-
teers and worls with students at
the high school.

She was joined in spealdng
by one of her current students,
Tian Younger, who spoke of per-

sonal experiences. Murphy was
invited to speak by Marinda
Harrell ’04 of the Shepherd Pro-
gram, whom she taught along
with Monea Hendricks ’»04,
Zakiyah Bradford ’04, and Kisha
Barnes ’04.

Murphy first discussed her
Social Justice class, which edu-
cates and involves high school
juniors with the homeless. The
first semester is dedicated en-
tirely to discussing poverty, hun-
ger, and homelessness.

Murphy then read excerpts
from the first assignment she

 

W&L’s DuPont Gallery
Displays Exhibit by Mary Page Evans

. An exhibit by landscape artist Mary Page Evans, “Painting
from Nature,” is now on display in Washington and Lee
University’s duPont Gallery.

The exhibit is on display until rnid-December. It is free and
open to the public.

Page, a Virginia native, is a graduate of Hollins University
and the Art Student League of Corcoran Art School. A veteran of
more than 25 solo exhibitions in various places on the East Coast,
her works are included in 22 selected public collections and have
been included in many selected group exhibitions around the
world.

Art history plays an important role in her work, with Page
having studied Cezanne and Hans Hoffman to advance her style
of letting “color determine the structure and create the space.”

W&L student Miriam Rodgers is off .

to compete for a Rhodes Scholarship

Senior Miriam Rodgers is heading down to the Rhodes
Scholarship state competition in South Carolina Tuesday and
Wednesday, November 18 and 19.

Approximately 600 students nationwide will be competing for
a Rhodes. If Rodgers advances, she will go to the District 111
competition in Washington, D.C. Friday and Saturday, November
21 and 22. Over that weekend, four students will win the elite
post-graduate prize and receive full tuition and living stipends at
Oxford University.

Rodgers is. a philosophy-economics major who attended
Oxford University last year without the aid of an American
exchange program and received straight A’s. She also won the top
writing prize in philosophy. Her father, Paul Rodgers, graduated
from Washington and Lee law.

Miriam Rodgers wants to study law as well, although she
plans to spend her time as an ethicist and Professor countering
the popular notions of “Pragmatic Philosophy.”

“ I’m thrilled to have the opportunity.” she said.

Washington and Lee Professor James Mahon wrote Rodgers
a recommendation. “In her essays, she also argued with a deter-
mination and a precision that one does not normally ﬁnd in under-

' graduate essays, and this from a freshman. . .It is fair to say that

she raised the level of class discussion to new heights.”

Traveller Committee Announces
Trial Period of changes in its driving routine

Traveller will change its driving routine between Thanksgiving
break and Christmas break.

The Traveller Committee will launch the two week trial period as
an attempt to make the current system more effective.

Any student can call the Traveller number at 458-8900 seven
nights a week from 10pm until 2am and a car will be dispatched to the
student’s location.

Vans traveling on the set route will still run on Wednesday,
Friday, and Saturday nights. I

The Traveller committee hopes this period will show better use
its resources.

The committee’s primary goal is to best serve students’ needs.
Please contact any of its members with any questions, concerns, or
suggestions. ~

November 3. 2003

Summary of Executive Committee
Honor Activity for the 2003/2004
Academic Year

Investigations: 4

Withdrawls in the face of a Closed Hearing: 0

gives her class: to answer vari-
ous questions on social and
political views. Murphy has

found that per- ning of her
ceptions of s p e e c h .
homelessness The biggest thing in Murphy then
are very differ- h - - - showed a slide
ent after stu- C _angmgsoClety1S show consist- :
dents have changing yourself. Educate ing of statis-
SP°“‘ 3 yea’ in yourself, educate others ti“ ’ °f
her class. homelessness

“Not one and pictures of
student has ever said homeless people.

homelessness is an injustice at
the beginning of the year,”
Murphy stated.

Her convictions of
homelessness as a social injus-
tice were evident from the begin-

Using various statistics,
she described the rising rate of
homeless children, domestic

violence resulting in
homelessness, and other mis-
conceptions of the average
homeless person.

After Murphy spoke, Tian
Younger began to tell of her per-
sonal experiences with
homelessness and how
Murphy’s class has educated
her.

“Homelessness affects di-
verse groups of people, work-
ing farnilies, people like you and
me,” said Younger. Murphy re-
quires all of her students to vol-
unteer in soup kitchens and read

aloud some of their responses
to their experiences.

All of the students had en-
tirely different opinions than
those of the beginning of the year:
guilt, shame, compassion, and un-
derstanding were among those

« most evident by the end of the

Yeaﬁ .

Murphy ended her speech
with a few possible solutions to
homelessness.

“The biggest thing in chang-
ing society is changing yourself.
Educate yourself, educate oth-
ers,” Murphy encouraged.

Campaign promotes literacy

 hand. Patrick  is a student working with the Campaign.

among ockbrie County children

ANNIE ROCHFORT
LITERACY CAMPAIGN PUBLICIST

The students of Washington and Lee University are proud to
announce the kickoff of the fourth annual Literacy Campaign, spon-
sored by Nabors Service League. The campaign rims from January
19 to March 12, and its purpose is to promote literacy arid social
justice in Rockbridge County.

The campaign began because of survey results indicating that
17 percemt of adults in Rockbridge County have reading skills at the
lowest literacy level.

The hope is that this program will excite children about reading
and encourage students to take literacy seriously. Ideally, the cam-
paign will raise the literacy rate in Rockbridge County in the future.
The Literacy Campaign consists of several programs aimed toward
involving children in reading. Abook drive to collect children’s books,

' in order to distribute a new book to every kindergartener in the

Rockbridge Area, will rim throughout the campaign.

Through the Adopt—A-Classroom program W&L students will
visit kindergarten through fifth—grade classrooms once a week dur-
ing the seven weeks of the campaign. Each week students, will present
a new literary activity, such as poetry writing, Dr. Seuss, and,
Shakespeare for kids. The Best SeHer will offer Saturdays at the Li-
brary, also run by W&L students. This will involve story time, crafts,
and lunch for children.

The Washington and Lee students participating in the campaign
hope that the W&L community will become as involved as possible.
Volunteer Recruitment will take place from December 1 to the 5 out-
side the Commons. If you are interested in helping, please stop by!
If you have any questions please feel free to contact Kyle Meehan,
meehane @ wlu.edu or Steve Martinenza, martinenzas @ wlu.edu.

Hidden Heroes: Tina Su works
to introduce freshmen to college

Su actively involved in campus service programs such as Project Outreach, Nabors Service League

BY CHRIS LAUDERMAN
SENIOR STAFF WRITER

Tina Su, a junior Cheiriistry
major, contributes in many ways
to the Washington and Lee com-
munity. Her friends describe her
as a great listener and an excel-
lent friend. “She is encouraging,
supportive, structured, straight-
forward, focused, and most im-
portantly, a great cook,” stated
Paige Thomas, a close friend of
Su.

She is actively involved in
Project Outreach. Su went on the
Roanoke trip her freshman year,
was a group leader her sopho-
more year, and co—coordinated
the trip this year. “I think that it
is important to share with fresh-
men the values gained from
Project Outreach. The majority
of freshmen are not exposed to
poverty in their everyday lives,”
said Su. She went on to add that
it is a great way to segue fresh-
men into college life instead of
thrusting them into the Washing-
ton and Lee environment. Her
friends feel that she is very pas-
sionate and devoted to Project
Outreach. Su will be coordinat-
ing the trip again next year.

As a sophomore, she served
as the Nabors Service League
contact for environment and ani-
mals. Freshman year she volun-
teered at the Rockbridge County
animal shelter. Su got involved
with the animal shelter because
of her passion for animals, espe-

cially cats. She has two, Oliver
and Ginger, at home in Maryland.
Last year she organized a suc-
cessful clean up of Goshen and
the surrounding area.

One of the most cherished
aspects of Washington and Lee
for Su is the honor system. The
trust and accountability inherent
in the Honor System parallels
Su’s own code of conduct. Her
honesty provides an example of
what all Washington and Lee stu-
dents should strive to achieve.

“'Ihe Honor System can go
outside academics into all facets
of your life,” said Su. One of the
characteristics that Tina’s friends
admire most is her honesty.

“She is a champion and hero
of the Honor System,” said Tho-
mas.

Su is serving in her third year
as a member of the Student Re-
cruitrnent Committee. She gives
weekly tours for the University.

She is also a three year member _

of the Big Buddy mentoring pro-
gram. She has been a big buddy
to the same girl all three years.
They meet weekly to work on
homework or to play games such
as checkers. "

“I feel like I can make a dif-
ference once I leave Washington
and Lee,” stated Su on her future
career. While she is undecided
on her profession, she is leaning
toward research.

She describes herself as
honest, dependable, and efﬁcient
in all she does.

Hidden Hero. Smiling Tina Su is a behind-the-scenes hero.

Tina Su is truly a hidden
hero. She is the type of leader
that does not want to be in the
spotlight. Her organization and

structural skills make her a natu-
ral leader and crucial player he-
hind the scenes at Washington
and Lee.

Closed Hearings: 2
Guilty Verdicts in Closed Hearings: 0
Not Guilty Verdicts in Closed Hearings: 2

Student Body Hearings: 0

EC from page 1

Major issues that the EC is considering include reworking the
succession of officers and writing into the Constitution a minimum
allocation for Mock Convention every year.

“While the number of law students who have approached me
has not been overwhelming, it has been enough to reiterate that
something needs to be changed,” said Frederick Heiser, the tliird—
year law representative.

The forum at the law school is expected to be better-attended
than last weeks. “Many law students may have already expressed

their concerns to their EC representatives and are conﬁdent that their

views have already been brought up through them. Concerns could ‘

be anything from succession of officers to the number of EC meet-
ings held in the law school,” said Heiser.

Arnold said that law students try to be active in campus govem—
ment because, “is important to many law students because they par-
ticipated in student government in college. To others, student gov-
ernment is important because it impacts our lives as law students in
ways such as funding of the Student Bar Association,” he said.

I

8

 

 

 I MONDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 2003

 )lTORlAL

Commons needs more artwork

The John W. Elrod University
Commons has become a jungle. It
seems that every time students darken
its halls there is another tree growing
in the building. Most importantly,
there is no consistency. Around one
corner there may be a bush, around
another a tree, why not have only
bushes or only trees?

The Commons higher-ups should
invest in art instead of plants. While
trees are wonderful, good for the en-
vironment and produce oxygen for the
students, art encourages thought.

By not placing art, Washington and
Lee University is missing an" impor-
tant element of education. Sure, the
painting of the late President Elrod is
beautiful, but there is more wall space
than just above the fireplace.

The many superb art shows currently
held in the Tucker Media Center, Wil-
liams School of Commerce and
DuPont Hall could attract many more
viewers if presented in the Commons.

The arts community of Lexington
and Rockbridge County is vibrant.
We should celebrate the incredible
talent to be offered by our region.
Why can’t Washington and Lee more
actively support all that the area has
to offer?

And, if the County’s artist com-
munity is not enough, why not bor-
row paintings from University Collec-
tions? There are hundreds of valu-
able paintings from years past gath-
ering dust in storage facilities across
campus.

Leaders, we implore you to take
advantage of what we have to offer.
The arts will be easily overlooked until
you put them on our walls. Please
give us something to look at.

Oh, and while your at it, could you
put up some clocks in the building.
Thanks in advance, and let us know
if we can help hang them up.

 

' CtrEYAmE1sON
OPINIODBEDIIOR
mm m

 

Onwednesday,November5,IﬂewtoMiamiandsawtheoceanfortheﬁrsttime.
Ok, soIreallywasr1’tgoingfortliewhitesandybeachesorthesmelloffreshocean
air,though,IwilladmitthatwepaidhomagetodearMotherNature.Rather,thethree
rmdergraduate co-chairs of the GayStraightAlliance (Steve Martinenza, 
and myself) were going to one of the largest gay activist conferences in the nation.
'I‘he “Creating Clmnge” Conference is sponsored annually by the National Gay and
Lesbian Task Force, NGL'I'F, and its location changes from year to year. This year it
happenedtobeins1mnyMiamiBeach, soRian, Steve, andlpackedoursuitcases
with swimming suits, sunscreen, and ﬂip—ﬂops and headed down south for four days.
Wehopedtoleamhowtobetterourleadershipabilitiesandtoleavewithfreshideas
andinspira1ionsfortheGSA.WhileIcouldtellyouaboutallthestrategiesand
techniqueslleamedtocreatechangeandopenadialogue,thisisbyfarnotthemost
important1essonIleamedwhi1einlVIiami.Indeed,Ileamedavery
valuable lesson, one that I wasn’t expecting, and one that will
deﬁnitely stick with me for a very long time.
ToattendtheCreat1'ngChangeConferenoeonedoesnot
have to be GLBTQTSI—that is gay, lesbian, bisexual,
transgendered, queer, two spirited, orintersexedlnfact, whenyoubuytickets online
they askyour sexuality and “heterosexual” is an option. So, I clicked the box next to
heterosexual,andheadeddowntoMiami.IfeltlikeIknewwhatIwasgettinginto-
IexpectedthatRianandIwouldbeamongthefew straightpeoplethere.
Ithoughtlwasprepared Iwasn’t. .
Insociety, youarebasically st1aighttillprovengay—noonereallybothersto
think/‘maybethispersonisgay”whenﬂ1eyareinurxh1cedtosomeone.Gaypeople
areforwdto“comeout”andtellusthattheyaregay. Sowhat,right?Whatditference
doesitrnake?InMiami,IleamedﬁrsthandwhatadifferenceiImakes.
Atﬂ1eCreaﬁngChangeConference,Amencansocietyreverseditself.Onﬂ1e
ﬁrst day, the co-chairs attended the Youth Institute—a gathering of young gay
activistsﬁomacrossthenationItbecamepainﬁﬂlyobviousthat,here,youweregay
till proven straight. People made all encompassing statements, such as “We are all
members of the gay community,” or “As queer youth. .  Every time it was said, it
gratedonme. Iknew, consciously, thattheyweren’t doingitonpurpose andthat
theydidn’tmeananythingbadbyit,yetitstil1botheredme.Asthedayprogressed,
I slowly became a little braver. As another comment went by I slowly raised my hand
Beforethemoderatorsnoﬁcedmeﬂ1ough,IqrncklyprﬂledmyhanddownMy

  
 

stomach was inknots andlwas nervous beyond belief. “Whatwillthesepeople

think?”isaIlIkeptsayingtomyself. 'Ihefear of anegativereaction waspushingme
farther into my straight closet. By day’s end I had ﬁnallyworked up the nave to
“come out”

As we discussed the good and the bad parts of the conference, I shyly
and nervously raised my hand. I was so nervous that I was shaking, stuttering,
and completely ﬂushed. My stomach was doing ﬂip—ﬂops and my hands were
clammy. But I succeeded and I “came out.” Afterl ﬁnished speaking, a series of
comments were lashed out towards me. Most of them started with “I’m of-
fended by...” or “You wouldn’t understand. .  or “It’s a cultural thing...” It
became obvious that several of these people did not appreciate my presence.
As the verbal assault continued, I became so ﬂustered that I couldn’t even

CHANGE YOUR MIND there; people would “know” I was straight. I had never felt the annoy-

KEILYJO LARSEN ‘05

PAGE 3

Straight student ‘comes out’ in Miami

construct a plausible defense for myself. I just kept repeating, “But that isn’t
what I meant,” over and over. After the Institute ended, I stood waiting for the
elevator with Steve. I was so upset and ﬂustered that I attached myself to his
side, hoping that I could just blend in and that no one would talk to me. I wanted
to nm back into my straight closet and slam the door tightly behind me.

After the Youth Institute, the conference continued. Reactions persisted to my
heterosexuality—some good and some bad In coming out in one of my later sessions,
a genﬂemanlookedatmeand said, “Ah, honey, that’s ok! We need you too!”Myheart
wasputateaselncontrast, duringaworkshopRianattended, awomangotupandleft
their small group after Rian’s “coming out” Through the good, the bad, and the ugly,
Ileamedalotastheweekendprogressed Neverhadlbeenforcedtodefendmy
sexuality. Never had I been subjugated to a negative reaction simply for being straight
I always took for granted the fact that I didn’t have to put myself out

inggrateofabroadstatementthatpretendedtoincludeme,yetthatI
knewdidn’t.
WhileinlVIiami,webeﬁiendedtlneesmdentsfromtheUnivasityof
Northe.mColorado.AsIbegar1exp]ainingrnyfeelings,oneofthem,Mike,lookedatme,
smiled and said, “Kelly Jo, welcometo the ﬁrstnineteen years of my life.” 'lhat’s when it
dawnedonme:tho11gh,Iwillrreverkr1owwhatit’sreaIlyliketobe gayinAmaicansociety,
Ido,however;knowwlmtitsliketobestraightinagaysociety.MoreovenIknowwhatits
liketoberejectedanddeﬁnedsimplybyyoursexuality.It’snotfunAta]lIwasanervous
wreckformostoftheconfamce—thesheerernotionofhavingto“oomeout,”tobeing
fmeedmamstamlyﬂnnkabmnmysexuahtyandwonyabomwlmtmsaymasdraimng.
Icensoredmyconnnentsbasedontheidea,“W1lltheyﬁgrneoutI’mstraightifIsaythis?
Willtheyhaternebecauseofit‘?” '
Bytteendoftheconferencelwasreadytogetbacktostraightsocietyandnothave
to worry anymore. But you know what? It’s a lot harder for gay people to leave straight
societythanitwasformetoleavegay society. Societyatlargeissubconsciously
heterosexistHowmanytimeshaveweaskedaguyifhehasagirlfriend?Doeshehave
awife?Doweeverthinktoaskifhehasapartner?Howmanytimesdowe say,“Gonna
hookupwithahotchicktoniglrt?”toourmalefriends orviceversawithourfernale
ﬁia1ds?Icansayﬁomexpaiemeﬂ1aLifmm1e,ﬂiesemmmentsgrateon&eemoums
tothepointofbeingraw.'Iheyalsoreinforceabeliefthatadiﬂ°erentsexualityiswrong.At
ﬂnﬁeamtgﬂiangewnfaencelpmmyselfmmysnaightclosabecauselwasscmed
ofanegativereaction.Aftrafourdays,Icouldra1eatandnotwony anymore.

Gaypeopkmn’tﬂeesuaightsocietyvmyeasil)gmshmﬂdn’twenmkesuaight‘

societyalittlemorehospitable?Nexttimeyou’reabouttoaskyourbestﬁiendifheorshe
isgoingwbehooldngup,dnnkabmnﬂeimphcaﬁmsofymnstatements.Talkabom
hornosex11alityinapositivelight—-tmstrne,itwasmucheasiertocorneoutiflthoughtthe
personwasgoingtobeokwiththefactthatlwas straight. Takehateful andderogatory
words outofyourvocabulary; theyonlytearpeople down.

* Societyreversedisnotanerqieriencemostpeoplecaneverhave—Ineverexpected
it,butI’llneverforgetit.WhileImightnotknowwhatitsliketobegay,InowhaveabetIer
understandingofwhatitmightbelike. Ididn’ter1joybeingdeﬁnedbymy sexualityor
always lnving to defend my sexuality. It was deﬁnitely an emotional drain but not
somethinglwillforgetanytimesoon

Universal human rights ignored by U.S. ,

  

. s “We’re not pulling out until the
job is done, period.”

‘ ~PresidentGeorgeW. Bush

   

Editor in chief
Assistant Editor
News Editor
Opinions Editor
Arts & Life Editor
Photography Editor
Asst. Sports Editors

Production iilssistants

Copy Editors
. Sarah Beth Campbell
Aubrey Miner
Alexa Moutevalis
Kate Zawyrucha
Editorial Director Katie J. Howell
Business Manager
Circulation Director Hem-y G1-imbau

Distribution Dir. Thomas Worthy '

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during
the undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee
University, Lexington, Virginia. The Ring-tum Phi is a
member of The Publications Board, but is otherwise
independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible sub
missions and letters. All submissions must be e-mailed

to phi@wlu.edu or in the University Center mailbox by
5 p.rn Friday to appear in the following week’s edition.

Paul Seifert

The Ring—tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions ’

for content and length. Letters and columns do not
necessarily reﬂect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi
Editorial Board Advertising does not reﬂect the opin-
ions of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper
observes current court deﬁnitions of libel and obscenity.
Ihe Ring-tum Phi
University Commons Rm 341
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, Wrginio 24450
Telephone: (540) 458-4060
Fax: (540) 458-4059
Email: phi@wlu.edu

IRONYP Eleanor Roosevelt holds a copy of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, but does the U.S. really comply with these rights?

As much as I love America, I sometimes won-
der what we’re doing at times because it makes no
sense. We have refused to ratify the United Na-
tions Declaration on Human.Rights (DHR) yet we
speak vehemently on protecting human rights and
even crusade on behalf of human rights. Why are
we so set against penning our name to the most
important document on human rights, a document
we inspired?

One reason is that we believe that our Consti-
tution and Bill of Rights sufficiently provide for the
well-being of our people. So, if the two are equal in
provisions, then there should be 
no problem in signing. We would
just be afﬁrming what we already
believe, right? And herein lies the
problem. We do not believe in the
provisions of the DHR because we don’t believe in

 

. human rights as a country. The Bill of Rights guar-

antees Americans political rights, not human rights.
The two are different. Political rights protect citi-
zens from encroachment by the government, such
as the right to be free from governmental invasion
of privacy, governmental abridgment of free speech,
and so forth. Human rights, however, guarantee
citizens a standard of human dignity. Let me illus-
trate these rights with some excerpts from the DHR.

Section 1 of Article 23 guarantees the right to
work: Everyone has the right to work, to free choice
of employment, to just and favourable conditions
of work and to protection against unemployment.
Section 1 of Article 25 guarantees people a stan-
dard of living: Everyone has the right to a stan-
dard of living adequate for the health and well-
being of himself and of his family, including food,
clothing, housing and medical care and neces-
sary social services, and the right to security in
the event of unemployment, sickness, disability,
widowhood, old age or other lack of livelihood in
circumstances beyond his control. In essence, hu-

TRAIN OF THOUGHT
TRANK1M‘05

man rights are basic economic and social rights.
Looking at just these two guarantees of the DHR, it
is no wonder that America refused to sign the dec-
laration.

It seems that we don’t really believe in provid-
ing social welfare to citizens. We don’t believe in
equal results, only equal oppornmity. I used to be
a believer of equal oppornmity until I began to see
that there is not a standard of equal opportrmity in
America because it means that we must all start at
the same line. But it’s common knowledge that we
all start at different points in the social and eco-
nomic race. The problem here is
that we think that it is a choice be-
tween one or the other, and I am
asserting that it is not a choice be-
cause you cannot have equal op-
portunity without equal results of some capacity.
Everyone must have the same basic starting points
to in order to actually have the same opportlmities.
That means that everyone should be able to have a
job if they want one, everyone should have a house,
food, healthcare— all the rights enumerated in the
DHR in Articles 23-26. It is only after people have
their basic human rights that they can utilize their
political rights.

Our forefathers who drafted the Constitution
didn’t have to consider basic human rights as a
necessity in the Bill of Rights because they already
possessed these necessities. It never occurred to
them that people deserved to be fed, because they
had long tables full of food at mealtimes. It never
occurred to them that people should have homes
because they lived in mansions. It never occurred
to them that people should have clothes to wear
because they had tailors who made their entire ward-
robes. It just never occurred to them, andnow we
are in the same place. It is not occurring to us ei-
ther.

Most of you who are reading this article do

/should be the

not have to concern yourselves with acquiring
enough food to eat, a warm shelter to ward of
the elements, or enough clothes to appear pre-
sentable. Your basic necessities are provided
for and then some. But that is not the case for
everyone living in this country. There are people
who struggle to be fed, clothed, and housed,
and no one should have to struggle to acquire
those needs. It is an injustice for them and a
shame for us. How can we as Americans claim
that we are passionate about human rights when
we deny millions of people every year those
rights? There are millions of homeless people
and millions of hungry months. When we pass
a homeless man or woman on the street, do we
ever fume with anger at the injustice of his or
her condition? I doubt it. If we don’t ignore them
and cast the situation off as one of those things
that happen, we are fuming with annoyance and
disgust. I am guilty of the same state of mind
and now I am forced to reconsider after an eye-
opening lecture last Monday on homelessness.
Homelessness isn’t a deserved condition be-
cause of laziness or poor luck. It is an injustice
that should not happen in our country. We
last country to have
homelessness. It is a mockery of our high finan-
cial standing in the world that we have
homelessness. '

This is a serious issue, and I urge you to con-
sider it seriously. Nothing will change if we don’t
start being serious. We are the lucky people who
have the political power to effect change and rep-
resent those who cannot yet utilize their political
rights. It is our obligation as active citizens of this
nation. But most importantly, it is our obligation as
human beings in this world.

To view the DHR in its entirety, please go to
http://www. un. org/Overview/rights. html. '

 

 

  

PAGE 4

  Oifﬁ<i1“f)Ns

Saddam is not point
of operations in Iraq

President Bush announced last
Friday that we, the United States of
America, would continue our military
presence in Iraq until Saddam
Hussein is in U.S. custody, or killed.
This is entirely the wrong attitude to
take toward Iraq, and I, for one, feel a
bit let down by the President. What
this effectively
means is that Presi-
dent Bush thinks
that once Saddam
has been taken
down, we don’t need to be there any-
more.

This comes after a week where
President Bush has been backing off
from Iraq and trying to speed up the
passage of power to the Iraqi people.
The Iraqi people are not yet ready,
their Governing Council reported to
U.S. authorities that they are. hope-
lessly deadlocked on the creation of
a new Iraqi Constitution. The essen-
tial problem is the conﬂict between
the Shi’ite majority and the elite
Sunni minority from which Saddam
Hussein came.

If we find Saddam Hussein tomor-
row, and the U.S. leaves, Iraq will not
be any better than when we began
our invasion. They will descend,
likely, into civil war again, and most
likely another military “president”
will be put into office. Then, thou-
sands will have died for nothing.

Don’t get me wrong, Saddam
Hussein is a criminal, and should be
found. But that is not the reason
that the United States invaded Iraq,
at least, that’s not the reason that we
were given. We were told that the
purpose of the invasion was to find
and destroy weapons of mass de-
struction (none of which have been
found) and to transform Iraq into a
viable democracy with working infra-
structure, services, and a basic ap-
preciation of human rights. So far,
thousands of Iraqis and hundreds of
U.K.-U.S. coalition forces have per-
ished towards that end.

Simply removing Saddam
Hussein and his family will not suf-
fice to turn Iraq into the country that
President Bush wanted it to be.
Throwing $87.5 billion of taxpayer

 

money into a country and then leav-
ing it to a divided, chaotic country
where more people have died since
the end of the “war” than during it
is neither wise fiscal nor foreign
policy. Staying when public opin-
ion is behind you and leaving when
it starts to turn against you is sim-
ply evil politics, the
kind that’s been so
reviled by Americans
in recent year. If
President Bush
leaves, it will show
that he is more concerned with
continuing to live in the White
House rather than with the well-be-
ing of the American or Iraqi
people.

Withdrawing now simply be-
cause popular support for the oc-
cupation is dropping would be
wrong. It would be an abandon-
ment of the Iraqi people, and it
would be a hypocritical letdown
of the ideals for which President
Bush professed to be invading
Iraq. We must continue to stay in
Iraq now that we are there. We
must continue our search for the
purported weapons of mass de-
struction, and we must stay in the
country until it has been rebuilt,
as our government has promised
us.

Even though President Bush
has said that we will not be in Iraq
“for years and years,” that may be
what is necessary. And if it is,
the President would do better to
rethink that pledge. We’re in now,
and we shouldn’t leave until
we’ve accomplished our mission.

When will that mission be ac-
complished? When insurgents are
no longer killing dozens per week.
When the Iraqi people have more
reverence for a stable and fair
government rather than their own
regional and religious factiona1-
ism. When their economy has
been given a fair head start.
When, in effect, we are no longer
needed. But for right now, and for
most of the foreseeable future, be-
cause of our invasion, we will be
needed.

   

‘MONDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 2003 ’

oward of the Week

./-Sm .irr'egu‘ia';.' feature of the I€irag~rz.tm Phi

Ex-Alabama Chief Justice Roy Moore

BY OPINIONS EDITOR CALEY ANDERSON

 

Chief Justice Roy Moore was sworn in as the Chief
Justice of the State of Alabama for one reason and one
reason alone— to act as a fair and impartial judge of the law
of the State and the Federal Government. Over the past few
months, he has made it absolutely clear that he doesn’t care
at all about this duty. Instead, he has chosen to use the
position to which he was appointed as a political and reli-
gious campaign. For those not familiar with the story, here’s
a brief overview-

The Ten Commandments have long been a focal point
of the church-state separation debate in America. But usu-
ally, the issue is whether posting the Christian religious
laws in public schools (funded by the government) is a
violation of the separation of church and state mandated

_ by the Constitution (as interpreted by the Supreme Court).

The answer to that question has already been resolved, of
course; the Ten Commandments as rules for student con-
duct, our government says, do not belong in public schools,
as they are a point of favoritism towards Judeo-Christian
religion. But what Mr. Moore wanted to do went far be-
yond any standard of common sense or American rights
and law. In the Alabama Supreme Court, Moore ordered a
huge monument to the Ten Commandments placed in the
central lobby. The First Amendment to the United States
Constitution says that “Congress shall make no law re-
specting an establishment of religion.” A testament to
Judeo-Christian religion in a very important government
building shows pretty clearly that the government favors
one religion over another. We’ve gone over this a thou-
sand times, but if we put up the Ten Commandments, let’s
also put up the Eight Pillars of Islam, or the Eightfold Path
of Buddhism. It’s only fair under American law.

Roy Moore has had this problem before. When he was
in Circuit Court, he had another Ten Commandments monu-
ment in his co1n1room. He became known as the “Ten Com-
man nts” judge, and his appointment to the Supreme
Court was largely a political move. When he tried to place
his monument in the rotunda of the Alabama Supreme Court,

 

a Federal court ordered it removed, and rightly so, as it was
a blatant violation of the separation of church and state. He
refused, showing that he, the primary judicial ofﬁcial in the
State of Alabama, had no respect for the law. So, an ethics
committee kicked him off the bench, and he is currently un-
der review by the Alabama Bar Association, so he may pos-
sibly lose the right to practice law.

Yet, despite all of this, he doesn’t care. He didn’t do
this because of his great belief in the Ten Commandments
and American law, if that were true, he would keep his en-
thusiasm for his religion in his own life instead of forcing it
on all the citizens of Alabama as a whole. But polls show
that 77% of Alabama citizens support Moore in his deci-
sion. Thus, this whole ﬁasco was clearly a political move.
“I will be making an announcement next week which could
alter the course of this country,” Moore declared last
Thursday. He obviously intends to run for public oﬂice.
And he will very likely win, simply because most Alabamians
can’t tell the difference between “the Ten Commandments
are a good set of rules for personal life” and “the Ten Com-
mandments should be United States Government Public
Policy.”

Moore is a coward because he is a traitor to the ideals of
the Constitution. He refuses to face the main issue, namely,
that his placement of the monument is a direct violation of
the Constitution. Instead, he merely insists that it’s his right
to “acknowledge god,” though he’s doing far more than
acknowleding, and is instead forcing a particular interpreta-
tion of god onto the American people as a whole. He is a
traitor to basic American ideals, as he’s using the spin from
this horrible activity to create public support (erroneous
public support, but public support nonetheless). Just be-
cause a lot of people support an issue does not make it Con-
stitutional It’s individuals like this who are responsible for
the degradation of America into a apathetic voter wasteland,
and it’s individuals like this that cause the rest of the world
to laugh at us. He may well soon be in ofﬁce, and if he makes
it, it will be yet another‘ dark day for American democracy.

Democrats block judicial nominees for political reasons

Last Wednesday the Senate Republicans called a 30 hour anti-
filibuster session to argue against Democrats blocking several of
President Bush’s judicial nominees. The Republicans’ purpose in
scheduling the session was to rally Americans against the Demo-
crats, who blocked the President's nominees for ideological reasons.
The truth of the matter is that the Democrats are desperate to hold
power. Let’s examine the opposition to Missis-  
sippi judge Charles Pickering. The Democrats ac- _ ; »  :
cuse Pickering of supporting segregation as a 
young man and pushing anti—abortion and anti- ' ‘
voting rights as a state lawmaker. They continue
to ﬁlibuster his conﬁrmation even when their arguments have been
shown to have no merit.

Charles Pickering testiﬁed against the Ku Klux Klan in Missis-
sippi in l967,_ advocated voting rights for African-Americans in the
1960’s, and led integration efforts in the 1970’s and 1980’s. His record
demonstrates that the allegations against him are entirely false. An-
other example of Democratic mistreatment is evident in the case of
Miguel Estrada. Estrada sought to become the ﬁrst Hispanic citizen
on the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia. Estrada, a
former clerk to Supreme Court Justice Anthony Kennedy and an

 
 

SncE ON LIFE

assistant solicitor general dining the Clinton administration, is a partner
in awashington law ﬁrm. His credentials are so impressive that he was
widely talked about as a sine Supreme Court nominee. Yet, Democrats
persisted in ﬁlibustering his conﬁrmation vote. Estrada waited so long
to be conﬁrmed that he eventually withdrew his name from consider-
ation. In a shameless display of bravado, Senator Edward Kennedy
called Estrada’s withdrawal “a victory for the Constitu-
tion.” A third example of Democratic exploitation is the
case of Janice Rogers Brown. Brown, a California Su-
preme Court Justice, is currently seeking a conﬁrmation
totheU.S. Court ofAppeals forthe District of Columbia.
However, her appointment seems unlikely to occur because Demo-
crats continue to ﬁlibuster her conﬁrmation vote. The comic value of
this matter lies in the fact that some of Brown’s opposition is from the
NAACP and the Congressional Black Caucus — a liberal group com-
prised of African-American congressmen. These groups pride them-
selves on the advancement of African-Americans in society, yet they
oppose anAfrican-American judicial nominee, Brown, simply because
she is conservative. It’s just a tad bit ironic that these groups continue
to oppose Brown considering she is the daughter of an Aﬁican—Ameri-
cansharecmpperandagreatnomineetosupporttheircause.

Serve

W/ant real-World sales, marketing
and management experience?

The Nabors
Service League is

always

volunteers to

Phi Business is currently looking for new staff

Call Paul Seifert at 458-4060 or
phi-business@wlu.e.du A

help witha
variety of worthy

causes

Contact the

NSL at
nsl@wlu.edu

KYCHILD

WWW.BOSSpCITY.COM
617-436-5719

CD

 

   

ll ‘hi s, Irma (risk, 60 free!
» New iriisg On-(umpus Reps

(uliforgrnqs discounts

 

3-3-00-64$ $8-$9 /‘ w'v:w.mtmv—ci.xcm

The behavior of the Democrats in the matter ofBush’s  nomi-
nees is disgraceful, and their true purpose is grossly evident. As the
American populace continues to become more moderately conservative
as a whole, liberal Democrats constanﬂy feel threatened that their ideals
willnotbe supported Theyarelosingpowertoenactlegislationand,
consequently, seeking another method to push their agendas. Their solu-
tion is to have judges legislate from the bench. A judge’s tenure lasts for
life, and the more liberal judges, the more outlets of support for liberal
ideals.

While the majority of American citizens criticize the outcome of judi-
cial rulings on issues such as the display of the Ten Commandments,
prayer in school, and the word “God” in the Pledge of Allegiance, these
issues continue to be riﬂed upon favorably for the Democrats. Why is this
the case? The answeris simple. In every instance, liberal judges creatively
interpreted the Constitution. Had conservative judges presided over these
cases, the rulings would have been different This example sheds light on
the underhanded tactics the liberal Democrats are using to push their
agendas. Instead of mustering support for theirradical ideals and passing
legislation, they resort to ﬁlibustering the conﬁrmation vote of any
nominee who doesn’t have an extremist interpretation of the Constitution.
This tactic is simply unacceptable.

   
    

 

#1 Spring Break Vacations!
Cancun, Jamaica, Acapulco, Bahamas,

Mazatlan, Florida, SPadre. 110% Best Prices!

Book Now & Get Free Parties & Meals!
Group Discounts, Now Hiring Campus
Reps! l-800-234-7007
endlesssummertourscom

 

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 2003



Democrats have a slim shot in 2004

Gomz AND FORGO'l'I’F_N?

The Democrats are hurting. The most recent gubernato-
rial elections did not favor their party, as Republicans picked
up numerous seats, even in long—time Democratic strongholds
like Mississippi. Republicans also recently won gubernato-
rial posts in ultra-liberal Massachusetts and left-of-center
Maryland, while liberal New York City is currently in its sec-
ond generation of Republican mayors. Every single statewide
office in Texas is now held by a Republican, marking the end
of what used to be a Democratic Texas. And in California, that
bastion of left-wing politics, Republican Arnold
Schwarzenegger was elected last month by a comfortable mar-
gin in a stunning election that ousted a sitting Democratic
governor through an almost unprecedented recall vote.

President Bush is also currently looking quite strong. De-
spite criticisms of his record on the economy
and his success in prosecuting the war on ter-
ror, polls are consistently showing that Presi-
dent Bush stands a good to very good chance
of being elected. Furthermore, Republicans are
expected to increase their majority in the House, and retain
their majority in the Senate, possibly picking up a few addi-
tional seats. Do the Democrats stand a chance of beating

  

., Prcs,ideI1,t ,Bush?,.. ,

Despite what some Bush supporters might say, the an-
swer is yes. President Bush’s approval ratings are down from
a year ago, although recent trends show them improving. Most
analysts agree that how voters perceive their economic sta-
tus to be in November of 2004 will strongly inﬂuence which
way they vote. Third quarter economic data showed very
strong growth, and interest rates continue to remain at his-
toric lows. If this trend continues, then Bush’s chancesrcon—
tinue to improve. The biggest problem for the Democrats, then,
is which of their presidential candidates would stand the best
chance of beating a relatively strong Bush. Who will the Demo-
crats select?

With the exception of Howard Dean, none of the current
Democratic frontrunners show serious opposition to Bush’s
policies. Gephardt, Lieberman, and Kerry all voted to support
the war in Iraq, and they are all relatively moderate Demo-
crats, particularly Lieberman. Why would anyone, particu-
larly a right-of—center political independent, choose one of

IR1ErTr-"\iVTrER?1>61hE
IMRAN NAEEMUILAH ‘05

PHOTO oouansror udaiazgaaiu

Current Democratic front runner Wesley Clark may see his campaign ﬁzzle out in the near future.

these candidates over the incumbent Bush? Clark, a supposed
frontrunner, has been bogged down by an increasingly disor-
ganized campaign and mixed stances on key issues,~including
the war on Iraq. It’s only a matter of time before Clark exits the
race as a has—been. Edwards’ campaign, once characterized as
that of a young Southern star in the mold of Bill Clinton, has
been falteri_ng. He lacks significant support outside of the
Southeast, and his shady fundraising tactics may yet blow up
onhim. As for Sharpton, Kucinich, and Braun, they’re all trail-
ing at the bottom of the polls despite being the most liberal
and anti-Bush of all the candidates. The worst part is that
they are hardly bad politicians; Sharpton, for all his short-
comings, is an excellent politician, and Kucinich and Braun
have both held national office before.

All of this points to a very difficult position
for the Democrats. Their most left-wing can-
didates are barely registering in the polls, and
their most centrist candidates lack any real
reason to elect them over President Bush.

. Their ideal candidate, therefore, lies somewhere in between.

It looks like Howard Dean may yet be their best bet. Even
Dean, though, faces considerable challenges, not theleast
of which is his blunt personality. He_i_s,prone to saying rather
stupid things which he later has to retract or further explain. The
recent Confederate ﬂag debacle is an excellent example of this; al-
though appealing to rural voters who put Confederate flag bumper
stickers on their pickup trucks is hardly morally wrong, nor is it poor
strategy, Dean’s opponents seized this as an opportunity to paint him

* as a bigot (which he almost certainly is not). In the eyes of moderate to

liberal suburban voters in the North, who will constitute a sizeable
percentage of the electorate, these sorts of accusations do not bode
well for him. ,

What will Dean say or do next? And what will those moderate to
liberal suburban voters think of Dean’s consistent NRA endorsements?
Those are hardly bad things, but they’re not what liberal Democrats
want, either. Voters may yet decide that Dean is not as liberal as he
claims to be. This leaves the Democrats fresh out of a candidate who
ﬁts in between nutty radicalism and boring centrism. It appears as
though the Democrats’ only lifeboat will be a certain junior senator
from New York; until and if such senatorfdecides to run, however, it
looks like the Democrats are facing a bleak situation in 2004.

Treat yourself to a

.. ~'i-’2°’ea{ an :~e.9{ﬁ"om/

.‘9’t"'«}r/(tag-itrsr’

u Iuxwious fur! body message by

W

 

PAGE ,5‘

Westerner discovers
southern society quirks

I am exactly 2,423 miles from
my home in Boise, Idaho (yes,
that’s where potatoes come from,
and no, it’s not next to Illinois). It
is a place where we wear jeans and
a t—shirt to Boise State football
games, played on our famous blue

»turf. It’s a place where no one

cares which fraternity you are in,
much less which one your grand-
father was in when
he went to college
in 1933. And most
of all, it’s a place 5
where dressing up
like old confeder-
ate soldiers in order to reenact a
battle that took place nearly 150
years ago simply does not sound
entertaining (not to mention, that
if you did reenact the Battle of
Cold Harbor, you would probably
be placed in the county lock up
overnight).

My mom is from the South,
so when I decided that’W&L was
the place for me, she took it upon
herself to prepare me for south-
ern life. She explained why
southemers don’t call the Civil
War the Civil War; instead it’s
called the War Between the States.
She forced me to eat grits, and she
explained what sweet tea is. De-
spite all of her hard work, she
could not prepare me for the ex-
treme culture shock I was about
to encounter when I arrived on
campus.

It all started at the ﬁrst home
football game. There was a “tail-
gate,” but there weren’t any tail-
gates. I don’t know about the rest
of the nation, but in Idaho a tail-
gate implies people barbequeing
on an actual tailgate. Besides the
football players, I was the only guy
who wasn’t wearing a tie to the
game. And even more oddly, the
girls were all wearing pearls, high
heels, and dresses. They were

  

.d¥°SS°<1moIef0III1aHy.I11anII1Y high. -

schoolpromdate. Inldaho, we wear
jeans and a t-shirt to the games, and
that goes for the girls too!

And what, may I ask, is with
the girls down here? They not
only know the rules of football but
they follow it religiously. When-
ever I want to know who won the
Alabama, Auburn, or Ole Miss
game, I just go ﬁnd a southern girl.
They can tell me not only what
the score was, but additionally,
they can tell me how the defen-
sive coordinator screwed up by
switching to a prevent defense
with two minutes remaining, rather
than staying in the cover three like
he should have. It’s awesome! In

PoTATo”Mﬂ%

Idaho, most of our girls couldn’t
even differentiate the offense from
the defense.

And, boy, do southemers
have manners. The first time I
heard my roommate, from Ala-
bama, talk to his parents on the
phone, I thought he was in
trouble. All he said was, “Yes,
ma’ am. No, sir. Yes,
ma’am.”Ihave
now learned

that is part of

 the normal
“”"”’”"‘““"‘ speech pat-
tern. If he

called a woman ma’am in Idaho,
he might get slapped. In the west
ma’am is equivalent to old woman.

For the past month, people
have been complaining about the
extreme cold. Many W&L stu-
dents act like they are freezing in
55 degree weather. One of my fa-
vorite activities is to walk around
campus and guess where people are
from by how many layers they are
wearing. If someone is wearing two
sweatshirts andaskicoatin55 de-
gree weather, I know that they are
fromAlabama_ While the weather is
not always cold in Idaho (we often
get 100 degree plus temperatures in
the summer), 55 degrees is deﬁnitely
not worthy ofbreaking out the North
Face jacket.

I love the south. It’s the only
place where seeing a Confederate
ﬂag hanging in a donn room is not
only acceptable, but is probable. It’s
a place where Bear Bryant is god,
and the Yankees (both the baseball
team and the northemers) are devils.
It’s a place where nobody has heard
of Keystone beer, but Southern Com-

pfortisasabundantaswater. It’sa .

place where you can go to Waﬂle
House at three in the moming to get
a triple order of chunked hash
browns, and learn the hard way that
they only take cash (we don’t have
Waﬂle Houses in the west).

Washington and Lee is where
a kid from Idaho, who seemingly
has nothing in common with any-
one from the south, can be able to
ﬁt ir1. While I don’t (and do not
plan to) hang a Confederate ﬂag in
my room, I have found that my
southern friends and their ways are
rubbing off on me. I wear ties to
football games, hate the Yankees,
and have begun to say y’ all (some-
thing for which my friends back in
Idaho will undoubtedly make fun
of me). W&L has showed me the
southern side of life, and opened
my eyes to a completely different
culture which will be part of me for
the rest of my life.

I’ * .-
.‘Ze/61» .97(1/wax, .c.a..r. (£3757
(.~7('r{i/('91! ..»1%maqqa é“/.3(‘I‘f¢-'35‘!

5‘ .6t'?naN/9/I  6§v-{y'?‘¢!(/
7",.» —._: -/J’ ((5/«mt. :3y)rv-:'wa-1*.

   
  
  

Gift (.Zerrifi(2.zrr:s Make.
Iixcctiicrxt Stortkirrg Stuffers:

(540) 264-9063

$222 $322 ‘fear?

Sea Splash iterate

I 3.8€¥&.é3§.*??"3§
wm.sa::is;3Ea hte22rs.ees::.

   

guara ntee,
or your money back"

 

~r.*Uzc:~1OZH

 
  
 

        
  

     

I
Going to rmrr school in 20957 Prepm for  LSAT
. . with Rapier: here: on campus at ‘Uh’-&LIl
I /
r a  r I z r t P Classes man on Fehrum  
Gram Lassaaaaes. Hausa . I Enrnli    in . our
Prrrirssiraraxasesa lttztage §4§~4§?«34-t? H . 2 . Y
r stuﬂes a any tinker!
I
309 N. Main St. —  , VA 24450 O
' world Leader in Test Pm!
‘    R  
tttttttttttttttttt  D ”“?W',,;;*;§°,',*g,;';f;;,“,g;;j ;j;;,';_:ﬁ;;*:'é‘*: pi. ‘ ‘pi ” ‘S I I‘  
      ..........  H ......  . , . I ....... . . .........  ﬂymﬂwmadcﬂsnﬁ mmwmmgmgpﬂw rrmmww  , . Z I I
J)  Rmérdskug as;a21#&;ias.§ltae;rf§§sx. smmwé: “mam dmgmmm W 3 .. mm“! Tm,‘   P L  
Fumauéﬂﬁdafw-wt rem: ‘§‘.F§1‘.3.€.l1!’.~ r.s.e2.s.uz:rs the mom»? that sum I W I _ m mm“;  M gm“ W a I A ..
~ .. ~  Stall mm ofycmrtraimrs.‘T-n=:awr:iiaJtalefartat1isnttnr,. I ' e ‘ '
 E :t.*;.':.“rf‘“t;:?W"'°°":f“;;*.::““‘”‘”°‘”’: Man-rtnr-rest
- 5 . .'Q¥ .i'|'91243Q.il'5.ir%5«. t. |'?s.5'l.':|l.333.'i'3.USi .' .- .
‘. '1. .-H. , --~ _. ,1 .!. :6. . "c. 3-. 3-... _ '  ‘ ﬁ_  I ' i _ _ .
' - ~*~Wr*"mm*'**rr- ..r.:;‘:?.§.m’t"t.m’f:.‘%§?.;';;.?“"“ karrtest-wmllaw
’-‘ 23-’ - www.,cam;>r.: o:noiraiser.com
E

 

  

JG-lNl'll1AN)
ASSITANFSIOKISEDIIOR

mm m

lloNDAr,llovEMnER17,2003

Generals fall in championship

S .

 
 
 
 

'iE‘€i§~’.if'Us '

 

 

  

GOOOAAAAALLLLL!!! Anne W/"rltshire scores the  penalty kick against Greensboro after the teams played 11O scoreless minutes in Saturday’s NCAA Regional Semiﬁnal.

JOHN HYLAND ,
ASSISTANT SPORTS Enrron

Yesterday, the W&L
women’s soccer team lost in the
second round of the NCAA tour-
nament for the second straight
year, falling to ODAC rival Vir-
ginia Wesleyan. The Generals
entered the tournament ranked
sixth in the nation and concludes
its season with a 15-2-3 overall
record.

By virtue of their ODAC
crown, the Generals earned the
first seed in the South Regional
of the tournament, also meaning
that the region’s games would be
played in Lexington. In a rematch
of the ﬁrst round of the 2002 tour-
nament, W&L played,Greens-
boro College. The Generals won
last season’s match-up with a 2-
0 decision but this year’s game
would prove to be a little more
difﬁcult. The teams played to a
scoreless tie during regulation,

0nd half shots and the Pride 8 of
their own. For the game, the Gen-
erals held a 17-11 advantage in
shots. The two overtimes pro-
duced little offense and after 1 10
minutes of soccer, neither

up, 1-0, handing the Generals Marlins last Saturday inthe con— game winning streak with a 2-1
their only regular season loss. ference tournament fmals.Inthe decision.
W&L, however, came back to win regional semiﬁnals in Lexington In the ﬁnals, on a cold and

their second straight ODAC
crown with a 2-1 victory over the

on Saturday, Virginia Wesleyan
snapped Hardin—Simmon’s 15-

team could produce a score.
Part of the reason for the lack
of offense was the stellar play
of both team’s goalkeepers.
Greensboro goalie Kerri Wells
and W&L junior Emily Barker
made 6 saves apiece. The Gen-
erals ﬁnally prevailed in pen-
alty kicks. Both teams con-
verted on their ﬁrst attempts
but the Pride missed their next
two opportunities with the
second heading wide right.
The Generals were able to
connect on their fourth
straight shot to preserve the
victory.

The win set up a regional
championship match-up be-
tween the two ODAC foes.
Virginia Wesleyan won the

rainy afternoon, the Generals of-
fense remained cold. They were
only able to muster two shots on
goal in the first half, neither of
which got on goal. For the game,
the Marlins defense only allowed
5 shots but did not force goal-
keeper Laura Vifiederwax to make
a defense. The Generals defense
was steady as well, allowing thir-
teen shots, none of which beat
Barker, who made 5 saves. The
two squads played scoreless
through regulation and one over-
time period but with 3:30 left in
the second overtime period, Mar-
lin forward Meg Bronstein con-
nected on a shot from the corner
of the 18-yard box, to give Vir-
ginia Wesleyan (entering the
tournament ranked seventh in the
nation) a birth in the NCAA

JEB BROOKS

V G-TUMPHI
SPIRIT! Womens’ Soccer fans came out in force to cheer on the team during

quarterﬁnals, where they will play
DePauw this Saturday.

PME6

after strong tournament play

  
 

 
    

erals eight game unbeaten streak.
Nevertheless, the regional ﬁnal
markedthe deepestaW&L squad
had reached in school history.
The future continues to look
bright. Last week, the ODAC re-
leased its all conference players.
Several General underclassmen
received recognition. Junior de-
fender Kelly Zagol and sopho-
more midﬁelder Kerry Giblin
earned ﬁrst team honors. Fresh-
man forward Anne Wiltshire, the
team’s leading scorer and fresh-
man midﬁelder Rebecca Cohn
made the second team while
sophomore defender Heather
Rogers was named honorable
mention. The team loses only
three seniors, including co—cap-
tains Meghan Hayde and
Fontaine Marcoux, both of whom
were named ﬁrst team all-ODAC
performers and received ac-
knowledgment for the third
straight year. Marcoux ends her
career as the school’s all-time

despite W&L getting off 10 sec-

teams’ regular season match-

NCAA Regional play at Championship Soccer Field.

The loss snapped the Gen-

leading scorer.

Football team ends season with 27-14 win over Greensboro

BY ALLISON PERRY
CONTRIBUTING Enrron

The Washington and Lee football team ended
its season at home Saturday with a 27-14 win over
Greensboro. The Generals dominated the second
quarter, scoring all of their 27 points then. Wash-
ington and Lee improved its record to 3-7, while
Greensboro also changed its record to 3-7.

Greensboro got on the board first when junior
Mantron Davis intercepted a pass from senior Pe-
ter Dean, starting a touchdown drive. Freshman

Ted Hoyle rushed one yard for the score. Kicker‘

Erik Naglee made the extra point.

Washington and Lee’s Ted Mafﬁt would then
intercept a Greensboro pass only 50 seconds into
the second quarter. The interception started a
touchdown run that ended with a 55-yard pass from
Dean to sophomore Clark Kensinger. Freshman

kicker Ben Long’ s attempt was goodnchanging the
score to 7-7.

After a failed Greensboro drive, the Generals-
took the ball once again to return it for another
touchdown. Sophomore quarterback Greg Tweardy
rushed for one yard to score. Long made the kick,
putting the score at 14-7.

The Generals then recovered the ball on the
next play after the on-side kick. Dean completed a
34-yard pass to junior John Bamwell. Freshman
Richard Garland then rushed twice to get the touch-
down. Long’s extra-point attempt was good, and
the score was set at 21-7.

On the next possession of the ball, the Gener-
als scored their ﬁnal touchdown. With only 00:16
left in the half, Tweardy found senior Jonathan
Brimer for a 28-yard touchdown pass. Long did
not make the extra-point, but the Generals went

into the second half leading 27-7.
Early in the third quarter, a Washington and
Lee fumble led to a scoring drive for Greensboro.

. Sophomore quarterback Justin Roberson com-

pleted a pass to senior wide receiver Ricky Moore
for the touchdown. Naglee made the extra-point
to increase the score to 27-14. But the touchdown
was not enough to get past the Generals. Neither
team scored for the rest of the game.

The Generals lead Greensboro in rushing as
well as passing. Washington and Lee rushed for
147 yards, while Greensboro only rushed for 62
yards. The Generals also passed for 225 yards
compared to Greensboro’s 112 yards.

Garland was the top rusher for Washington
and Lee, running for 103 yards. Dean led the team
in passing with 129 yards, completing 9 of 14
passes.

Hoyle ran for 35 yards for Greensboro, .
Roberson passed for 59 yards, completing 10 of-23
passes.

On defense, senior Ben Krasnoff led the Gen-
erals with nine tackles and one sack. Junior Lloyd
Wilson had six tackles.

Seniors Ian Mosher and Richard Tattersall led
the Greensboro defense with 12 tackles each. Se-
nior Cortney Gunter had eight tackles and one sack.

Sat11rday’s win ended the season on a posi-

tive note, along with the placement of three Gener- _

als on the COSIDA College Division AcademicAll-
District Football team. First team honors went to
junior linebacker Wes Kimmel, senior defensive
lineman Jess Lipsey, and senior defensive back
Lee Walker.

Washington and Lee ended its season 1-5 in
the ODAC and 3-7 overall.

Cross Country teams compete in
NCAA South/Southeast Regional
Championships at Emory

W&L SPORTS RELEASE

ATLANTA, Ga. — The
Washington and Lee men’s and
women’s cross country teams
were in action on Saturday at the
NCAA South/Southeast Re-
gional Championships hosted by
Emory. The Generals men’s squad
ﬁnished 10th out of 20 teams,
while the W&L women came in
eighth out of 20 teams.

On the men’s side, senior
Andy Schorr (Kingwood, Texasl
Kingwood) led all Generals with
an 1 1th-place overall ﬁnish and a
time of 26:53.84. With his ﬁnish,
he earns all-region accolades for
the third time in his collegiate

Junior Steven Chambers

' (Christiana, Pa./Octorara Area)

and senior Rusty Meyer (Dal-
las, Texas/Jesuit Prep) were the
second and third W&L runners
to cross the tape, respectively.
Chambers ﬁnished 30th overall
with a time of 27:49.66, w_hile
Meyer recorded a 47th-place
timeof28:29.31.

For the women, sophomore
Mary Christopher (Fort Lauder-
dale, Fla./Cardinal Gibbons) led
all Generals with a 41 st—place run
of 25:33.35. Sophomore Betsy
Frayer (Grand Rapids, Mich./
East Grand Rapids) finished in
45th-place (25:40.44), while
freshman Julie Harris (Rich-
mond, Va./Saint Catherines) ﬁn-

 

- COURTESY PORTS INFORMATION
KEEP IT UP. Junior Emily Wolﬁng hits the ball in the
Generals’ NCAA tournament play at Trinity University.

Knvr GUNST
STAFF Warn-:11

The Washington and Lee volleyball
team fell to Emory University in the sec-
ond round of the 2003 NCAA Division 1]]
Tournament at Trinity University.

The Generals started strong as they
won their opener against Averett, 25-30,
30-18, 30-17, 30-21, this past Thursday
evening. Junior outside hitter Emily Wolf-
ing led the team with an impressive match-
high 19 kills and 13 digs, while sophomore
setter Christine Gladysz totaled a career-
high 65 assists and‘12 digs.

“We beat Averett for the third "time
this year, and it was great to make it to the
second round of the NCAA tournament,”
Captain and ODAC Tournament MVP
Emily Wolﬁng said.

Despite their strongest efforts, the
team watched their season come to a close
Friday evening when they lost to Emory,
30-27, 30-25, 30-27. Wolfmg led the way

olleyball falls in second round of NCAAtoumament

Sophomore middle blocker Susan Gaillard
tallied 10 kills and junior outside hitter
Michelle Chastain recorded eight kills and
ﬁve digs.

The Generals struggled for a Victory,
but held late leads in all three matches.
“Our loss to Emory came as a huge disap-
pointment,” Wolﬁng commented while
looking back on the team’s loss. “They
played great defense, and we fought hard.

It just wasn’t our night, and we came up a ,

little short in the end.”

The General’s loss against Emory
ended their season with a 35-4 overall
record, but the team seems even more op-
timistic aboutvnext year’s season.

“Since we have no seniors on the
team, we all need to work hard this sum-
mer and come back next year determined
to make it past the second round, which
the team has lost the past 3 years,”
Gladysz said in hopes to do even better
next year. “Despite the rough ending to
the season, our regular season could not

career. A ished 56th overall (26:04.64). again—-- this time with 11 kills and 10 digs. have been better. “
' I ‘Hrs W EEK’ s S CHEDULE 
Tuesday, November 18 Wednesday, November 19 Thursday, November 20 Friday, November 21 Saturday, November 22 Sunday, November 23 
0 W Swimming vs. 0 Open 0 Open 0 M Basketball at F&M 0M Basketball at F&M 0 W Swim at Bryn Mawr 
Hollins--7:00 Tourn.--8:00 Tourn.--TBA Tri.--1 :00 ,
0 W Basketball at Peace- 0 W Basketball at Howard
-8:00 Payne--3:00

-1 :00

0 Swimming at Dickinson-

 

PAGE 7

A

 

 

8t LIFE

MBGANMURGAN
ARTS&LlHiEDl'IOR

mm m

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 2003

W&L student sings backup for Lyle Lovett in Richmond

I :Uo'v7"a Vficai 2

BY CATHERINE SWAN
SENIOR STAFF WRITER

While most people limit
their musical performance
to singing along with the
radio, junior Tran Kim re-
cently got the unique op-
portunity of singing
backup for Lyle Lovett at a
live concert in Richmond
this past Wednesday night.

Lyle Lovett is primarily
known as an alternative
country singer, but he has
done songs that cover a
wide range of genres, in-
cluding jazz, folk, and gos-
pel. He is currently on a
seven week United States
tour following the release
of his latest album, My
Baby Don’t Tolerate. In
each city he performs,
Lovett uses a gospel choir
from the area to sing
backup during his gospel

selections. Kim was se-
lected to be a member of the
group during his concert in
her hometown of Rich-
mond.

The opportunity arose
when Sheeila Belle, editor
of the Richmond-based The
Gospel Times, sent out a
mass email two weeks prior
to the performance seeking
applications from singers
to form a choir for Lovett’s
Richmond concert. Kim sent
in an application, even
though she was unsure how
she got on the email list
and did not even know the
details of what she was ap-
plying for. In fact, she had
never even listened to
Lovett’s music prior to this
experience.

Not long thereafter,
Kim found out that she had
been chosen to sing in the
gospel choir during

Lovett’s Richmond perfor-
mance. She received a CD
in the mail of five gospel
tracks to rehearse, three of
which would be performed
the night of the concert.
She did not even have the
opportunity to rehearse
with the group she was
singing with until just
hours before the concert.
A total of nine singers
were chosen to sing
backup. They became a
choir just for that night,
and called themselves
‘Gospel 911.’ Out of the
nine chosen, Kim was
somewhat the odd one out
in the group. She was sig-
nificantly younger than all
the other singers, and was
also the only non—African
American in the group.
“The people I sang
with were very nice and
welcoming and took me

a

under their wing,’ said
Kim.

After the last minute
rehearsal, Gospel 911 took
the stage to sing for a full
house in the 2,000 seat Car-
penter Center. They sang
backup for three songs,
one of which, ‘I’m Going to
Wait,’ was just released on
Lovett’s new CD.

“It was my first gig in a
big venue. There were
people in the articles sing-
ing and clapping and get-
ting into the music. It was
really neat and Ijust had a
great time,” said Kim.

At W&L Kim sings
with the Joyful Noise gos-
pel choir and General Ad-
mission mixed a capella
group. She plans to con-
tinue her involvement with
music after college, but is
not sure how actively she
will pursue it.

WHAT FUN

 

Mocx CONVENIION. The Gala last weekend was a big success by most accounts. Big Ray and The
Kool Kats (left) entertained about 1,000 guests at the black tie affair on Friday night. Noah
Rhodes (right), the general chair of Mock Convention, also enjoyed the sounds of the swing

 

band. Students danced the night away in Evans Dining Hall, which was decorated in patriotic A
colors for the event. This was the first chance that many students had to enter the Evans

Dining Hall this year since it is no longer used.

Antiquing in Lexington stores an exciting way to spend a weekend

BY ERIN JULIUS
NEWS EDITOR

It’s no small secret that Lexington businesses
do well over Washington and Lee’s Parents Week-

' end. Many of the Lexington antique businesses

most especially attract W&L parents.

“At this point, I do prey off W&L parents,”
said Henry Simpson of Lexington Antiques.

Simpson opened his shop in September of 1975,
so he has been around long enough to see many
Parents Weekends. “The downtown looks like a
cocktail party during W&L Parents Weekends,” he
said, “VlVlI parents never spend— they have them
scheduled totally. . .VMI doesn’t let them loose.”

Simpson located in Lexington because his wife
is an art history professor at Washington and Lee,
“I’m stuck here. . .and I’m so glad about it,” he said.

Fran Tinelli, of Francesca’s Antiques, retired
early to move to Lexington to open her business. “I
saw Lexington in Southern Living about 10 years
ago,” she said, and opened her antique shop in
April of 2001.

“I have customers from all over the US. . .locals
and people from around Virginia are about equal to

the number of out of state customers and I have _

customers from about every state,” said Tinelli.

Tinelli called Lexington a “destination town,”
and said that people come from several states just
to spend a weekend in Lex.

She also said that W&L parents come to her
shop all year, and that Parents Weekend is, “no
better than any other weekend. I have very good
business—I would not want to depend on that
one weekend,” she said.

Tinelli, who specializes in 18”‘ and l9“‘—cen—
tury furniture and “antique accessories” said she
travels to auctions, “all over,” for her merchan-
dise. She also goes through catalogue auctions
and estate auctions looking for possible mer-
chandise.

Tinelli holds degrees in restaurant manage-
ment, personnel, finance and an MBA, and ad-
vises the students of the college town she serves
to “learn all you can, then pull together all you

Engaged?

Send your
announcement to
the Ring—tum Phi

at phi @ w1u.edu

k¢<l>¢¢¢¢¢¢¢<l>¢¢¢¢¢¢¢¢¢¢¢<l>¢¢¢¢¢¢¢¢¢¢¢¢%

Triple Nine Society
Founded 1978
Extraordinary camaraderie
in an
international society of peers.
99.9th percentile:
old SAT 1450, new SAT 1520,
GRE 1460, MAT 85;
see complete list at:
www.triplenine.org

 

7 North Jefferson Street
463-3622

University
Cleaners

THE CLEANEST OF THE CLEAN.
CALL US FOR ALL or YOUR DRY CLEANING
LAUNDRY AND ALTERATIONS NEEDS

Great Service
First—Rate Quality

Submit
your ~

to

dry cleaning,
laundry, alterations

anonymous

Quick Hits

phi@wlu.edu

«mat in .2. sagtmaza mxwnmotiran baseman at 

 all sznuuirad ciasaas £1!’ rnaltew aussims.
 all  13515, NH! ED  
if wur more dt‘.!e3&t¥"t  an taﬁit my flmﬁ 31211.1!’
itlaplan dtagmznlc -at at pater‘ ntiinlal ttwst smut-¢._ yarns’
caanermaeamnapaat mt ﬂflIQ?'Bl?l?ﬂf§T8£-iIf§$.8
Sui!  cf aI:24.tr’t.t.si:it.ua'1’c.c SM taltgllaita rcirtaita amt.
team must lzueemzesozl in icaptarﬁs an claaereuaétt.
ibﬁoflttz; 0%.! mltna mums. B1 aaxlttiara we 
girasont an nmaial  u¥_yma~  Ieegincr and
5i.ll§¢‘l‘lI£fyEt'stl‘ WJM materials wtmta 

know when you retire. . .you can have a great re-
tirement with all you’ve learned through work-
ing.

Sally Gaines is the owner of All That Glit-
ters, an antique and estate jewelry business she
opened six years ago. .

Gaines cites local people, W&L parents and
VMI parents as her main customer base.

“My business is most proﬁtable at Parents
Weekend and at Christmas,” she said. Gaines
also sells to students, although usually, “they
spot something and then bring their parents in,”
said Gaines, who acquires her merchandise from
people who bring in things to sell and from dif-
ferent dealers and antique shows in the area.

MT score  
  uaranteed    
or your money back“

Prepare far the Atari! 2604 lick?
with Kaptm  on campm at WKLII

ﬁlassas bagki Jemuary 10. 
Enrtsla   Octnber 31;! and receive
on:-ilna  Review FREE!

Wa|'|I.l|%rh'|iI»stPr1EP

KAPLﬁN 

 

mtmm
Raptasteam/pruizad

 

PAGE 8

  THE “?l§“l““WoRD

MEGANMCRGAN
Aris&liEEEDrror

 m

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 17, 2003

A startling fact about frat guys, too exclusive for their own good 1

Excited over yet another WVU primetime up-
set special over Pitt (hopefully I’ll get no fuming
responses over the origins of Pitt’s mascot this
week), I hobbled over to Fiji this past Saturday
night to enjoy their band party. I happened to
spot a friend on the 2"‘ ﬂoor, and to avoid clogging
the already bustling hallway, we ducked a few feet
into laundry room, which was already open. Afew
seconds later, some malcontented
sophomore Phi Gam, thinking perhaps
I was trying to pilfer some of his dirty
clothes, told me I had to get out of the
laundry room. Granted, having a con-
versation with a friend in a fraternity laundry room
seems a little unorthodox, but this guy wanted to
fight me over it. Bafﬂed, I left the Fiji house a few
minutes later.

Last year, I went to Pi Phi’s fabled packing-
peanut party. After talking with a few friends, I
trudged into the stage room through the 3 feet tall
sea of foam to get a beer from the bar. Afterwards,
I walked back to talk with my friends, at which
point a very armoyed Pi Phi pledge approached
me and asked “You’re just going to get a beer??! !”
as if I had committed a crime against God and na-
ture. I wasn’t sure how to react — I wasn’t even
sure if he was serious, and I almost laughed in his
face. Instead, I enjoyed the Natty Light which had
caused so much drama, and left Pi Phi humored yet
confused. v

There are a few trends of our Greek system
that are just plain stupid and unreasonable. The

  
 

Take a break, have some fun  

BY ]i=.B BROOKS
EDITOR 1N CHIEF

“I’m too busy.” Surely that is one of
the most widely heard statements today.
We are all too busy. Too busy for what?
No one has more than 24 hours in a day;
some just use what they have been given
more wisely than others. There is no need
to complain about how little time you have
and how many things you have to do, all
of us are busy and all of us have too little
time. Why not take some of that time and
spend it in a unique way. Sometimes you
need to break the monotony. Doing some-
thing completely and totally random is not
only fun, it is a great way to create some
truly lasting college memories. Some of my
favorite times at Washington and Lee have
come from doing something out—of—the—or-
dinary.

Next time you want to say that your
life ﬂies by and that you have no time for
anything, stop yourself. Take a moment to
take a break. We are in Lexington, Virginia,
the heart of the Shenandoah. Why not

most predictable one goes something like this...

A young man pledges to a fraternity and from
that point on, he considers that fraternity to be
part of his identity. As a result, he invariably be-
gins to drift away from friends, hallmates, and ac-
quaintances who pledged elsewhere, since he
spends the majority of his time with his pledge
brothers. This falling-out almost always leaves a
' bitter taste and some hurt feel-
ings (though most frat boys
would be unwilling to admit it).
To complete the transition, as
a sophomore, the fella will most
likely live in the fraternity house, and will spend
his energy rushing new freshmen in direct compe-
tition with all his forrrrer friends who are in other
houses rushing the same guys.

Fraternity sophomores are the worst. Sub-
conscious about the well—being of their own house
and their own rush, they try desperately to sell the
best image possible. In the grand fraternity game,
they try to pull as many people as possible to their
house, and would prefer that the other fraternities
not exist. Fraternity sophomores would rather sit
in their own houses then go party elsewhere, and
when they do go out, it’s often with the intention
of bringing people back to their own parties. Cer-
tainly, this strategy doesn’t exactly work miracles
for intra-fraterrrity relations.

Here’s another fabulous trend ~ fraternity up-
perclassmen try desperately to rush a certain fresh-
man. They pull out all the stops. They take him to

ABSOLUT FRATIDRD

take advantage of all that surrounds us?
There are countless ways to pass time in
the area, and only two of them are study-
ing and partying.

Try something new, something differ-
ent. Go to Lake Robertson and hike around
it. Trek over to Natural Bridge and gawk at
the wax figures. Head up to the Greenbrier
for a cup of afternoon tea. Drive on to‘
Charlottesville for some ice cream. Watch
a movie in Roanoke, go to the Safari Park,
explore the caverns up north. Do some-
thing. Step outside the box.

There are literally millions of things
you can do around the area. If you need
some advice, just go to the Lexington Visi-
tors’ Center on Washington Street.

I am as guilty as anyone of making ex-
cuses, but we’ve got to remember that our
Washington and Lee experience is'more
than just classroom time. Leave town for a
day or a weekend and you’ll have some fun.

Hey, if you need someone to join you,
let me know. I’ll be glad to come along. As
long as it isn’t a Monday, Wednesday or
Friday.

    

Driven: What do W&L undergrads drive?

t‘>m grzwztod My :k~iwn<t'p '4$9.\nf¢ £62-ﬁn em-yr: vi xrcgmce-st

INFOGRAPHIC BY KATIE]. HOWEIl/ THE RING-TUM Pm

dinner. They call him to do individual stuff con-
stantly. They spend all sorts of time and energy
on this one guy. And then come tear night, the
guy ends up at another fraternity. Not surpris-
ing, the fraternity guys feel slighted and pissed
and insulted. They grow to despise that fresh-
man for going the other way. Then they grow to
despise that other fraternity as well, out of hurt
feelings. '

Therd’s nothing wrong with fraternity pride.
Fraternity Rivalries are not horrible things, and
can be quite healthy. But how do we let these

ideas drive us to the lame high school phenom--

ena of social clique—ing and oversensitive feel-
ings?? This is college, not high school, right??
The trap is easy to fall into. It perpetuates
itself. After joining a fraternity, you’ve got plenty
of friends, you’ve got your own parties, and your
own social circle. All you need is already pro-
vided — why branch out and keep an open mind??
To make it even more ridiculous, some frater-
nity brothers feel the need to ostracize other mem-
bers of their house for branching out. It’s taboo
to keep close friends in other fraternities, to go to
parties other than your own fraternity events, or
to even invite other frat boys to your own events.
Do I even need to explain how excessive this is??
Finally, as a senior, I’m able to appreciate
hanging out with all different sorts‘ of W&L folks,
and I’ve been having more fun than in any previ-
ous year. Through intramurals, I’ve met people I
would normally not come across in a typical day.

In pick-up basketball, I play with a whole slew of
freshman and non—Lambdas. And out of my en-
tire West Virginia Mock Con Delegation, there is
only one guy in my fraternity, so it’s been an-
other great opportunity to get to know and be-
friend different people across campus. At the
occasional Saturday morning gin bucket, I may
be nothing more than the token Lambda, but at
least I’m fratemizing with people that I don’t see
every day.

Not everyone is so inclusive. Students on
sport teams or in ensembles or in clubs interact
with different people everyday. There are innu-
merable opportunities for anyone to get out and
meet different people in this small school.

But the worst of the worst is that lame frat
boy who wants nothing to do with anyone else
outside of his own bubble. I can’t think of a
bigger waste than to go through fouryears in
Lexington believing that other people aren’t worth
your time because they aren’t in “fraternity X.”

4 Take my advice — don’t be that guy. The
best people on this campus are the ones who can
transcend the isolationism of the Greek system,
who identify themselves as a W&L student first
and a fraternity brother second. Naturally, ev-
eryone will come across people they don’t like.
But give everybody a chance — get to know
people before you try to bring them down. In
doing so, maybe you can help erase the bound-
aries and pretentiousness that so often gives the
Greek system a bad name.

Student sit— ins shut down meeting

It hasn’t happened yet, but
this is how Kirwan is calling it.

LEXINGTON— Today, the February

 

Science Center, but the students
followed a late arriving Board
member and discovered the plot
to carry on “business as usual”

meeting of the BoardofT nistees was despite the student protests.

essentially shut down by a group of Student organizers reported
Washington and Lee students. The that they had been planning the sit-
students, who numbered nearly one in since the faculty vote on Spring
thousand, organized Term. The
a sit—in to protest the RIGHT OF THE AISLE closeness of
Board’sirnminentde- ‘ the vote, only
cision to change the BRETT KIRWAN 04 9079, signaled
school’s under— to the students
graduatecalendarfromthreetotwo _ thattheBoardwasgoingtobefree
terms, eliminating the cherished and to ignore the opinions of both the
unique Spring Term ’ faculty and the students and make

“Near unanimous student
opinion had previously been ig-
nored by the Trustees,” said sit—
m organizer Ansel Sanders, “In
response, we have prevented the
Board from meeting until they
commit to saving Spring Term.”
As he spoke, the mass of sign-
waving students who occupied
Northen Auditorium and most of
the main ﬂoor of Leyburn Library
cheered. Music played and the
spirit of the students was high be-
cause they felt that their opinions
were finally being listened to.

“This is preposterous,” blub-
bered University Rector Phil
Norwood, “Washington and Lee
students are not supposed to act
like this. I mean, we knew they
had strong feelings about Spring
Term, but we had trusted Presi-
dent Burish to deal with the stu-
dents.” Norwood, who was just
elected to the position of Rector
at the Board’s last meeting in Oc-
tober, attempted to lead the Board
to a secret meeting location in the

a decision based on “ﬁnancial con-
siderations.”

Lawson Grumbine, another
member of student 12-12-6 com-
mittee, explained the students’
thinking. “After President Burish
leaned on faculty to vote in favor
of the 14- 14 calendar, we saw
what the plan front the Board was.
Although the Board was unable
to orchestrate a victory for two
terms, the faculty vote was close
enough that they can claim
Spring Term doesn’t have signiﬁ-
cant faculty support.

“We determined that a deci-
sion to end Spring Term was inevi-
table unless we took drastic ac-
tion,” Grumbine added. “So, we let
students lmow that the sit-in was
‘put up or shut up’ time to save
Spring Term. Needless to say the
result has been overwhelming.”

Nor was the protest limited
to typically active students. Gen-
erals from every major, Greek or-
ganization, varsity sport and
dorm participated. Organizers

made hundreds of signs for the
event. Students. enthusiastically
waved signs saying, “Save Spring
Term, Sell the Commons,” “Spring
Term is the bottom line,” and “Two
terms = no contributions!” and
dozens of other catchy phrases.

Classes virtually ground to a
halt due to lack of attendance.
Some professors even canceled
their classes so students could at-
tend the sit—in. “Spring Term is es-
sential to the continued strength
of the Music Department,” said
Professor Terry Vosbeiri, “Without
Spring Term, we would hardly
have any music majors. I wanted
to let my students do everything
they could to save Spring Term.”

Even professors who support
a change to a two semester calen-
dar were impressed by the students’
activism. “I certainly won’t hold
anything against my students who
missed class today,” said account-
ing ProfessorElizabeth Oliver, “I’m
really surprised that W&L students
would make such a fuss over the
calendar and then follow through
with this level of 

Whether the students’ efforts
will prevent the Board from chang-
ing the calendar remains uncertain.
Neither Norwood nor any other
Board member has indicated that
the Trustees will bend to the stu-
dents’ wishes.

Should the outcome be a
change to 14-14, the Board can ex-
pectmore ofthe same,though.“Un—
til Spring Term is preserved, we’ll
keep up these sit—irrs. If the Board
hastomeetinCalifomiatoavoidus,
so be it," challenged Sanders.

 

(I) The John W. Elrod Commons is turning into
the John W. Elrod Forest. How about more artwork
and fewer plants?

Q Darla Elaine Dixon, she of the French book
and hoodie Campus Notices, has a distinctive and
alluring prose style. If one can love a Campus No-
tice writer, then, Darla, I think I love you.

Q Or: Darla Dixon’s recent Campus Notices were

so abrasive and grating that 3M has decided to
discontinue their steel wool products and use her
manifestos instead.

Q How about kudos to Beta and KD for their
efforts in the Toga Party last Saturday. It rocked!

Q Will it ever stop raining?

Q That’s right ladies . . . the man who used the
HV pick up line on Helen “The Face that Launched
a Thousand Ships” Hughes is Jason “The Goof’
Fitzsimmons. Get him while he’s stillsingle. (By the
way, the mono will go away soon.)

Q Fiji had a mechanical bull on Saturday. Did they
really have to steal the idea from Chi Psi?

Q The Mock Con Gala was a lot of fun. Hey, FD
Committee, did you hear that? Try Big Ray, not
George Clinton, and maybe we’ll enjoy ourselves
this year.

Q More on the Gala: Props to the Ohio Delega-
tion for having their delegates adorned with buck-
eye stickers; though they resembled marijuana
leaves a little too much for my taste. '

Q And one more: There shouldn’t have been any
charge for soda and water. At minimum, underage
students shouldn’t have had to deal with the tick-
ets. '

Q Yet another: After. the success of the Gala,
Mock Con should be able to bring The Boss for the
Convention.

Q ‘Finally: The Gala gave us an opportunity to
lament the loss of Evans as the main Dining Hall. It
has so much more atmosphere than the Commons.

(I) Students who haven’t met Reed Evans are
really depriving themselves of an experience in
witty bitterness.

Q 'I‘here’s a prowler around the sorority houses.
Any bets on which fraternity sends pledges to imi-
tate him come Winter Term?

Q After all the fun freshmen have had with Helen
Hughes, any bets on Anne J ohansen reconsider-
ing her run for EC President next year?

Q Saturday was the 226th anniversary of the Sec-
ond Continental Congress ratifying the Articles of
Confederation.

Q Geographers are amazed at the recent discov-
ery ofLake Gaines 381.

Q Wow! Who thought the Bengals would be the
first ones to knock off the Chiefs?

Q I love Wal—mart. It has all of America’s bounty
in one place.

Q What happened to the tailgate!?! I doubt the
fraternities would have canceled their event come
November.

Q Would the Calyx please bring back indexing?
It was very helpful.

Q Thanks to the University of Kentucky for send-
ing its Snu chapter to W&L this weekend. It was
great to meet you guys.

Q Attention persons in need of rides: Rather than
making Campus Notices intolerably long, use
W&L’s Ride Share webpage, available at htzp://
nsa.wlu.edu/cgi—bin/ride/rideboard.pl.

Q How great is Colonnade Connections? I’m
seemingly using it several times a week.

Q Hey, Dean Futrell: I hear that you are a terriﬁc
bowler.

Q Happy Anniversary to Mr. and Mrs. VVintson
Watts Burks, III ‘81.

Q I think it would be a good idea if all the frater-
nity guys parked on the bottom ﬂoors of the ga-
rage ‘and didn’t use the elevator to kill two birds
with one stone. No parking problem and no more
beer guts. ‘

Q Thanks to Paul Seifert, Lord of the Phi, for keep-
ing us in the black all these years.

Q E-mail your anonymous Quick Hits to
phi@wlu.edu. Stories of familial embarrassment
and the negative effects of tryptophan from the
holiday are encouraged.

 

(sieves
R552

1 ‘I’. /Gé
me. !:>

R WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

G-TUM

liiestndent voice ofWasbington and Lee University since 1897

VOLUME Clill,l\lo.\llH I5

lknDARInEnnER&2dB

Mys erious hief swipes several ex books from he C-school

BY KAELA HARMON
STAFF WRITER

Recently, there has been a rash of thefts in the
Commcerce-school. One victim, Akshat Shah, a
senior economics major, returned to campus from
Thanksgiving break, he discovered that three of
his textbooks were missing from his storage cubby
on the third ﬂoor of the C—school.

His first thought was that he had simply mis-
placed them but by Monday afternoon the Associ-
ate Dean of the C—Schoo1, Rob Straughan, had re-
ceived several other reports of missing books, and
it became apparent that Shah was not alone.

Dean Straughan said that he had received
at least seven reports of missing textbooks.
Most of them are the accounting book used in

University hopes

to use Co-op, Dupont

Professor Elizabeth Oliver’s intermediate account-
ing class, however a Math Economics book, a statis-
tics book, and a management informational systems
(MIS) book have also been reported as missing.

With the accounting book itself selling for
$106.25 used and $141.50 new that’s well over $500
in stolen books.

In response to the reports, Dean Straughan sent
word to students and faculty in the C—Schoo1 via e-
mail making them aware of the problem and asking
that students report any missing to security and to
professors. “Stuff like this happens from time to
time”, Straugh said. In the mean time, “we’ve tried
to make copies of the material.”

Because her class was most affected, Professor
Oliver contacted the publishing company’s repre-
sentative about replacing the books. Professor

Oliver said that the publishing company was kind
enough to send complimentary copies of the ac-
counting book. The books arrived Friday.

As of now there are no solid leads as to who
might have taken the books although politics Pro-
fessor Bill Connelly did recall that around the time
that the books had been reported stolen a man came
by his ofﬁce, introduced himself as a book buyer and
asked him if he had any books he wanted to sell.

“All Iknow is that I had never seen him before,
and my ofﬁee is just a few doors down from where [
I understand] the books were stolen. Hence I re-
ported my suspicion and a description to Mike
Young.”

Young, head of security said that he does
not believe that the culprit is a student or anyone
closely associated with the school who knows

and respects the Honor System. Executive Com-
mittee President, Helen Hughes, shares Young’s
opinion.

“It’s hard for me to believe it could be a

student [but] if it is a student stealino the
books it would be considered an Honor Viola-

tion,” said Hughes.

At this point Young has said that security is
doing everything that they can and asks that all
missing books be reported to security.

He also asks that any suspicious looking
people be reported.

“Students have to remember that we have a
large number of visitors on the campus and that
they [students] shouldn’t leave expensive items lay-
ing around. The best way we can protect ourselves
is you have to protect your sniff,” said Young.

Snow hits Lexington campus ‘opens for business,’

Physical Plant workers ‘scramble’ to clear paths

for more classroom space

BY CHRIS LAUDERMAN
SENIOR STAFF WRITER

Rumors of the co-op’s de-
mise have been spreading
across campus in the past few
months leaving students con-
fused and upset.

According to Tom
Contos, University Architect,
however, that is not the case
at this time. The future of both
the Co—op and Dupont Hall re-
main in question. “Academic
uses are our main focus,”
stated Contos.

The Co—op was built in
1911 and has a wood frame
with a brick exterior. The origi-
nal purpose of the co—op was
to house a 120 seat dining hall
on the first ﬂoor and bedrooms
upstairs for the kitchen staff.
The back section of the build-
ing, facing Graham Lees was
added in the 1960’s to house
the bookstore.

A few years ago, the Uni-
versity looked into converting
the Co—op into additional
classroom space for the over-
crowded Williams School.

Washington and Lee also
looked into building an addi-
tion on to the Williams School
to house additional class-
rooms.

Both options, however,
were too costly and the Univer-
sity decided to rework the space
in the C School and take the large
library of the school and con-
vert it into two classrooms and a
smaller library instead.

Renovations for this project
took place over the summer.

Dupont Hall was built on
a tight budget in 1954. The
school built Dupont Hall in
the cheapest way possible by
using a concrete block con-
struction instead of steel.
This makes re-designing the
space nearly impossible.

The University has con-
cluded that the core of the
campus needs to be reserved
for academic use. This means
that administrative offices
would need to be moved off
of the Colonnade and the
Plaza. Ideally, this would
mean that both the Co—op and
Dupont Hall would be used
for an academic function.

The academic function of
the Co—op would most likely
be offices while the function
of Dupont Hall would be of-
fices in addition to new,
“smart” classrooms.

The University is experi-
encing an office crunch as a
result of the hiring of new
faculty, on-leave faculty, and
phased retirement. The smart
classrooms in Dupont Hall
would create better classroom
space.

Possible demolitions are
being looked into for the most
effective use of space. Wash-
ington and Lee is getting ready
to hire an architect and engineer
to do a feasibility study of the
two buildings.

A report to the board on
these two buildings is expected
to be given in February.

FILE 1

Dupont. One day, this hall will offer “smart classrooms” to students

BY JEB BROOKS
EDITOR IN CHIEF

Students, faculty and staff
woke up on Friday morning to a
snow covered Lexington. By the
time most of the campus com-
munity first saw the snow, ad-
ministrators had made the deci-
sion to open for “business as
usual.”

Provost Tom Williams, Vice
President Joe Grasso and Direc-
tor of the Physical Plant Scott
Beebe met early on Friday mom-
ing to make a decision regard-
ing the opening of campus.

Beebe had been in touch
with Physical Plant workers who
worked all night to stay on top
of the effects of the snowfall.

According to Williams, who
drove in from west of town, “the
local roads were more than just
passable.”

Administrators checked
weatlier.com as well.

The call to keep the campus
up-and-running was made be-
tween 5:30 a.m. and 6:00 a.m.

The campus community
was alerted by a broadcast email
that was sent at 7:39 a.m.; the
email called on everyone to “use
your best judgment of your 10-

cal circumstances when making
a decision to come to campus.”
VVi1liams said that, “not getting
here is a forgivable offense.”
That mercy extended to students,
faculty and staff.

The cost of the snow event
to The University is, “built into
budgets,” according to Williams.

According to Williams,
“Washington and Lee rarely
shuts down for snow.”

Williams remembers the
campus closing for a storm that
hit Lexington seven years ago.
The closure lasted two days.
There was a travel danger related
to the blizzard, but the real rea-
son for the closure was that, “Vir-
ginia power asked us to cut
power in any way we could.” The
storm caused a rolling brownout
in the area, and Washington and

Lee was consuming too much.

power.

Williams speaks of one local
legend regarding the closure of
campus. President Coles, who
came from the University of
Georgia, cancelled classes af-
ter a gentle snowfall. He sub-
sequently suffered years of
condemnation by the board of
trustees and other campus offi-
cials. Decision makers ever

JEB BROOKS/ THE RING TI/MPH1

Working hard. Maintenance workers arose early Friday morning in
order to clear safe paths for students all over campus. One worker called
the nasty Winter ahead “job security.”

since have been weary of clos-
ing the colonnade because of
weather.

Physical Plant worker Alan
Black referred to the forecasted
bad winter ahead as “job security.”

Worker ﬁles complaint of unsafe working conditions

BY ERIN Juuus
NEWS EDITOR

Since the construction of
the Elrod Commons, some stu-
dents and employees claim to
have felt tremors within the
building. A formal complaint
was ﬁled by a University em-
ployee with the Occupational
Safety Hazard Act/Adrr1inistra—
tion.

The complaint listed sev-
eral objections to the new con-
struction, the most serious be-
ing that the Commons is sub-
ject to tremors and is just gen-
erally poorly designed.

According to University
Safety Officer Paul Burns, the

Commons was monitored on
Wednesday.

“Nearly all the items were
resolved or deemed not to be a
violation," said Joe Grasso, Vice
President for Administration.

A high noise level in the
dish-washing area was one of
the complaints listed. After
Wednesday, OSHA official de-
termined that the noise levels
were not up to an “action” level
in the dish-washing area.

As for the noise level in the
Cafe Emporium it wass, “no—

where near what would cause us ’

to take action,” said Burns.

Burns blamed the
noise level, “on dishes clinking
together,” he said.

Poor design of equipment
in the Commons was another
complaint, but this is not an
OSHA issue.

Burns said the University
would continue to address this
issue with employees. The com-
plaint of a broken glass panel at
the salad bar was also deter-
mined not to be an OSHA issue.

The Commons Elevator was
cited as malfunctioning, which
Bums says is, “always a poten-
tial problem” with new buildings.

Tremors in the building, per-
haps the most serious issue re-
ferred to in the OSHA complaint,
did not turn up a citation.

“I myself haven't felt any-
thing like that,” said Burns. Ac-

cording to Burns, buildings move
after they are built and such a
phenomenon is not an OSHA is-
sue.

The only possible OSHA
violation was in regards to the
ﬂoor drains.

This complaint has, “been
addressed previously by the
school and the contractor,” said
Burns.

OSHA states that its mis-
sion is to, “to save lives, pre-
vent injuries and protect the
health of America’s workers.

To accomplish this, federal
and state governments must
work in partnership with the more
than 100 million working men and
women.”

Traveller’s services tailored to your needs

BY KATIE HENDERSON
TRAVELLER PUBLIC RELATIONS DIRECTOR

Traveller changed its driving routine for the period sparming
from Thanksgiving break to Christmas break.

The Traveller Committee launched a two-week trial period as
an attempt to make the current system more effective.

Now, any student can call the Traveller number at 458-8900
seven nights a week from 10pm until 2am and a car will be dis-

patched to the student’s location.

Vans traveling on the set route will still run on Wednesday,

Friday, and Saturday nights.

The Traveller committee hopes this period will be a better use
of its resources. The committee’s primary goal is to best serve

students’ needs.

Please contact any of its members with any questions, con-

cerns or suggestions.

Traveller also implemented a first-ever program for Christmas
Weekend. Students pledged not to drink or drive for the weekend
and were entered in a drawing to win a surprise personal celebrity

sober driver.

CORBIN BLACK}-‘ORD / Tl-IERINGMP

Vroom. Traveller vans are well-known by Washington and Lee students
for providing a welcome sober ride during prime party hours.

The program was considered a success with 320 participants and
Traveller thanks Dean of Students Dawn Watkins for participat as the
driver. The winner of the drawing was Senior BJ Conrad.

Traveller is planning several more campus—wide events for next term.

  

miss a. more no.» s 
WA&‘lNE§*\i.t94' ii  witt,ﬁ’~ri“:"/
."r?‘.*e, V"! 

DEC I i 

PAGE 2

 

MONDAY, DECEMBER 8, 2003

Applebome discusses ‘ intense competition’

BY SARAH MURRAY
STAFF WRITER

Peter Applebome, deputy metropolitan edi-
tor of The New York Times, came to Washington
& Lee last Tuesday to address the effects of the
Jayson Blair scandal on news media. i

Jayson Blair, formerly a New York Times re-
porter, became famous in May 2003 when the
newspaper’s management announced that the 27-
year-old had plagiarized the work of others, “fab-
ricated comments” and “concocted scenes” dur-
ing his four years with the paper.

“He’s been depicted as a tragic ﬁgure, this
brilliant young journalist on the way up,”
Applebome said. “He was never a brilliant
young journalist. He was just a loveable screw-
up.”

In discussing “The Press After Jayson Blair”,
Applebome made it clear that no new problems
have been created for news media. The chief
effect of Blair's deception was to draw attention
to problems that already existed as a result of
intense competition and arrogance.

“Pressure to succeed and stay ahead of the
pack is incredibly intense,” said Applebome of
the ever-increasing competition among media for
readers and viewers. The upshot: an aggres-
sive, achievement-oriented newsroom in major
papers such as the Times, with the pressure for
results falling on reporters’ shoulders.

Blair received respect from his Times col-
leagues because he seemed to be a driven re-
porter who put in long hours. In reality, he never

Bonners give 900 hours of service

Interdepartmental 101, Introductory to
Poverty, Shepherd Poverty will sponsor
their involvement in the Shepherd Alli-
ance summer program.

“It is an honor to work with such
talented, dedicated, thoughtful and re-

BY SARAH MURRAY
STAFF WRITER

With major service groups such as
Nabors Service League, S.A.R.A.H., and
Alpha Phi Omega on campus, it’s simple
enough for Washington and Lee students
to serve their community. Now, however,
there is another option. Few students

visited many of the locations listed in his by-
lines, nor did he interview many of his ‘sources’.
Much of his information was lifted from the
Internet, some directly from other journalists’
work. Applebome knows now that in response
to a high-pressure environment, the young re-
porter “imbibed the gospel of achievement to this
perverted degree.”

“We talk a good game of family values and
‘it’s important to have a life’ ,” Applebome admit-
ted. “But the guy who works 8 hours does better
than the guy who works 4 hours. And the guy
who works 16 hours is pretty hard to beat.”

A In attempts to gain a
larger audience, media of-
ten focus on scandals or
popular celebrities, some-
times for weeks at a time.
Coverage this narrow
damages the quality and
comprehensiveness of the
news. According to
Applebome, today’s news culture is like a pa-
rade with elaborate floats, such as O.J.
Simpson’s trial, President Clinton’s impeach-
ment, or the death of John F. Kennedy, Jr. Each
ﬂoat commands the public’s entire attention un-
til the next spectacle appears on the horizon.

While ambition provided a motive for Blair’s
actions, conceit allowed it to happen. “The big-
gest sin of the media, top to bottom, is just arro-
gance,” Applebome said.

Several major newspapers employ an om-
budsman who acts a liaison between the paper’s

“The biggest sin of the media, top
to bottom, is just arrogance,”
PETERAPPLEBOME

audience and its editors, handling readers’ con-
cerns and questions. The Times never took this
step, believing that its reliability was regulated
in other ways. While magazines employ fact-
checkers, this method is impossible at a newspa-
per with a daily or weekly deadline. Editors and
sources alike must put their faith in the integrity
of reporters.

“This business is, to a certain extent, based
on trust,” noted Applebome.

In this case, that trust was taken too far. The
Jayson Blair story is underscored with the fact
that signs of his falsiﬁcation appeared long be-
fore his dismissal and
were ignored. Most no-
tably, his record of correc-
tions was three times
higher than the Times av-
erage.

How could nobody
have noticed? Certainly
some editors did, but the
highest levels of Times management paid no at-
tention to their observations. Then-metro editor
Jonathan Landman even sent a memo to other
mid-level editors which stated, “We have to stop
Jayson from writing for the Times. Right now.”
No action was taken.

In light of this knowledge, suggestions have
been raised in the media that Blair's African—Ameri-
can heritage prevented his dismissal. Applebome
ﬁrmly denied this, calling race “a very small part of
the Jayson Blair story. He had a better chance of
getting in the door because he’s black. That’s all.”

in media  

In a Times staff meeting after the scandal broke,
editor Howell Raines admitted that he might have
given Blair “one chance too many” out of a desire to
uphold the paper’s “commitment to diversity”.

The Blair scandal eroded the 7imes’traditional
pride, and signiﬁcant changes have been enacted
since then to minimize the paper’s weaknesses. A
new member of staff, the public editor, now plays an
ombudsman-like role in what Applebome calls “a
huge effort...to be more responsive to readers”.
Raines and his managing editor Gerald Boyd have
been replaced. In the wake of these l1igh—level per-
sonnel shifts, management training has dramatically
developed to foster the idea of the Times as a corpo-
rate enterprise. In the newsroom itself, editors take
more care to inquire after sources and facts. Ac-
cording to Applebome, “Jayson forced everyone to
rethink their assumptions about their colleagues.”

“If we don't protect our own house, we
won’t have one, or at least we won’t have one
worth living in,” Applebome added.

Applebome believes that today’sTimes com-
bines these new measures with long-estab-
lished quality to maintain a top-notch newspa-

per. “People do their jobs with a rigor and a dedica-
tion that is almost scary.”

Applebome, a native of New York, has writ-
ten for The Dallas Morning News and has been
head of the Atlanta bureau of The New York
Times. His books include Dixie Rising, which
examines the effect of the South on the nation’s
culture and politics, and Scout’s Honor, a de-
scription of his experiences in the Boy Scouts
with his son.

Hidden Hero: Daniel Vos tutors,
Works with employment services

Vos has volunteered all around the world, from Richmond to Tanzania

know of it and fewer can get into it-—the
Bonner Leaders are the unseen service
organization on campus, but their pres-
ence in the community is as strong as
any other.

Bonner Leaders are facu1ty-recom-
mended students who engage in two
years of concentrated s_ervice—900
hours, between 8  15 per weekéand
are recognizedwith scholarships from the
university and from Americorps Educa-
tion Awards. The program is highly se-
lective—only 1600 students nationwide
are members of Bonner Leaders or its sis-
ter program, Bonner Scholars.

“As the program develops further,
the Shepherd Program anticipates Bonner
Leaders becoming a recognizable force
on campus,” said Avery Gholston, Com-
munity Service Coordinator and adviser
for the Bonner Leaders program.

The program, a child of the Bonner
Institute in Princeton, New Jersey, places
each member with specific service oppor-
tunities. Students work only at one or
two sites in order to maximize the posi-
tive changes they produce. Since ser-
vice continues year-round, most partici-
pate in one local program during school
and another during the summer. Programs
include Head Start, Project Horizon, and
Hoofbeats Therapeutic Riding Center,
among others. If members have taken

THE NEXT ISSUE OF THE RING-
TUM PHI WILL BE PRINTED
JANUARY 12, 2004

‘Me Cutting
Edge

Complete if air Care for
Men anti‘!/1/omen

Styé Cuts
Cfipper Cuts

Complete Qotfy Care

{Manicure
(Pedicure
Waxing

117 W Welson St.
Lexington, ‘V/'4
463-9588

ﬂective students,” said Gholston. BY JORDAN ANDERSON Vos is a Classics ma-

Sophomore Sarah Weil, who works STAFF WRHER jor, and he plans on us-
primarily at Hoofbeats and Head Start, ing this major to assist in
has found the experience to be en1ight- Senior Daniel Vos is a student who his goal of teaching inter-
ening. “When I come back after volun- has found many ways to help the com- nationally, particularly in

teering, I am grateful that I only have to
worry about writing a research paper or
studying for a test,” Weil said. “The
stress of college is a privilege compared
to worrying about living with a physi-
cal, mental, or emotional handicap.”

Weil has been ‘named 12003 Vo1un- pi p
, teer of the Year by Hoofbeats Riding

Center. ‘

27 schools sponsor a Bonner Lead-
ers program, including Princeton, Ber-
keley, Rutgers, and UCLA. At each of
these programs, six ideals form the ba-
sic philosophy: social justice, spiritual
exploration, diversity, civic engage-
ment, community building, and inter-
national perspective. Students who
show themselves to be committed to
these values receive semester-based
scholarships as well as payment for
summer internships, all of which are
sponsored by the Bonner Institute but
funded by individual universities and
Americorps.

There are currently eight Bonner
Leaders at Washington and Lee. Ap-
proximately ﬁve more openings have
been made available to applicants this
year. Bonner Leaders are selected at
the beginning of Winter Term. The
process requires a faculty recommen-
dation, an application, and an interview.

munity locally and internationally
through his various efforts in service.
He has spent much of his free time
helping others and exploring the ar-
eas around him to get a local and in-
ternational feel of community.

' Following his freshmen A year,
Daniel spent his summer in Tanzania‘
with his Church doing service through
construction and educating the com-
munity there. This seemed to spark
his interest in actively helping those
in need.

He has spent the past two sum-
mers working in a volunteer program
through the Shephard Poverty Pro-
gram in Richmond. There, he worked
directly with refugees from around the
globe, including places such as Af-
ghanistan. Through this experience he
got to know many of the people he
was helping, including the Sudanese
refugees he spent the summer shar-
ing an apartment with and helping to
educate.

Currently, Daniel continues to
show a desire to help people by tutor-
ing students in need in the Rockbridge
area, as well as working with the
Rockbridge Supported Employment
program, which assists people in find-
ing jobs.

a place like Tanzania.

Vos chose to major
in Classics solely out of
interest; however, he
feels that it represents

“‘the best thoughts that
people have thought
I through, the ages.”

' He mentioned Pro-
fessor Beckley’s courses
on poverty as well as In-
troduction to Political
Philosophy taught by
Professor Velasquez as
some of the best classes
that he had experienced.

After college, Daniel,
a Detroit native, plans
first on working with the
“Teach for America” pro-
gram, which arranges for qualiﬁed in-
dividuals to teach in underprivileged
schools. He hopes to teach in the ar-
eas around Detroit for at least two
years, before pursuing his intema-
tional teaching goals.

VV1th regards to his international
focus, he encourages all to “think
outside the box, have a big vision of
the future, and to educate yourself
about the world.” He stressed that
just by going outside W&L you can

INSPEREH or our sons, soars  

 

meet people you wou1dn’tnorrnally
meet.

Vos’s biggest complaint about
Washington and Lee was just that
the student body does focus inward
a lot. However, he also said that the
professors challenge this tendency
quite a bit.

Though his life is hectic at the
moment, the biggest piece of advice
for everyone — especially seniors
— was to simply “take time to relax.”

Seats fire, has 53 strain
feet of cargo space, and
is auaiiaéhie with 1183 hp
and 3 5-sneer: manual
shift. Eran evolution
sari’! fatty explain it.

$332 TE’-l".';£i.i%.   i.£35ﬁ.... 3533.  iii‘?

 

Cﬂise to Campus
Q’rqfessiona[.S'albn witli a
(Persona[‘Toucﬁ!

EEG         P?ii'i.‘-l.UilES

.  .ii.i.*E? éiiﬁiiilitéiiﬁ 5&1. E1*s.€li.}3ES 

 ..  Eiiﬁé  r’1!.'-iii? §i3;i§riﬁl.ii?é’ 
  ?§E§i>lé.Eii Fiﬁ WY ‘t3‘tE‘i.

 
 
 

*1. 

 

MONDAY, NOVEMBER 3, 2003

S’: ‘ :E~’.rx-2::~':t,tvri’t~r:
AFF EDITORIAL

Use caution when posting
campus notices

Campus notices are apublic fomm for
sharing information. Many students, fac-
ulty and staff reap the beneﬁts of the sys-
tem.

It is a great venue for getting ir1for-
mation out about what gets lost over the
weekend. It is not a great venue for
commenting on what fellow students
have lost. By writing notices about no-
tices, submitters only detract from the
effectiveness of the program. Too many
notices are not a good thing.

The beneﬁts to campus organiza-
tions are endless. The ability to quickly
and easily make the entire Washington
and Lee campus aware of important in-
formation is fantastic. It only works,
however, if groups release only critical
information. Campus notices must be
a secondary system. If an email list of
group members exists, use that before
concerning the entire campus with club-
related problems.

The effects of the deterioration of
campus notices have ﬁnther implications.
Broadcast emails, sent to everyone’s
email account have increased When the
Executive Committee or some other
group wants to send critical information
they bypass campus notices because stu-
dents do not read them. Instead of us-
ing a single email for all information, some
groups have to resort to further clogging
of student inboxes.

Don’t get us wrong, we love the oc-
casional side-splitting addition to ourmorn-
ing routines just as much as the next guy.
Our concern lies with the wasted notices
that provide no beneﬁt to readers.

In short, campus notices must be
brief and provide relevant information
only.

 

“I’d like to be able to check in to the

Paris Hilton.”

-SNLCastMember
Jimmy Fallon on the hotel in Paris, and
certainly nothing else.

 

"'."""'-\j‘«'r\. ‘:7’ .\;';‘v’  '

Editor in chief Jeb Brooks
Assistant Editor Kyle Wass
News Editor Erin Julius
Opinions Editor Caley Anderson
Arts & Life Editor Megan Morgan

Photography Editor Cody Gabbard

Asst. Sports Editors John Hyland

Chad Kiewiet de Jonge
Hilary Henry

Emily Edwards

Alexa Moutevalis
Kate Zawyrucha
Sarah Beth Campbell
Vanessa Amess
Aubrey Miner

 

Production Assistants

Copy Editors

Editorial Director Katie J, Howell

Business Manager Paul Seifert
Circulation Director Hem-y G1-imball
Distribution Dir. Thomas Worthy

The Ring—tum Phi is published Mondays during
the undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee
University, Lexington, Virginia. The Ring-tum Phi is a
member of The Publications Board, but is otherwise
independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible sub-
missions and letters. All submissions must be e-mailed
to plri@wlu.edu or in the University Center mailbox by
5 p.m. Friday to appear in the following week's edition.
The Ring-tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions
for content and length. Letters and columns do not
necessarily reflect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi
Editorial Board. Advertising does not reﬂect the opin-
ions of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper
observes current court deﬁnitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
University Commons Rm. 341
Washington and lee University

Lexington, Wrginia 24450

Telephone.‘ (540) 458-4060
Fax: (540) 458-4059
Email: phi@wlu.edu

  

  

CAIEYANDEsoN
OnN1orsEr>n0r

mm m

     

 Sweatshops

PAGE 3

 

LONG A CRUSADE OF COLLEGE CAMPUSES, A NEW UPSWELL OF SUPPORT FOR SWEATSHOPS HAS AWAKENED IN RECENT YEARS. TODAY, THE PHI ASKS:

Yes

TRAN KIM, ‘O5

She starts work at about 6:30 in the morning and doesn’t get off until 7 at
night with only a half an hour for a lunch break in the middle and does this six
days a week. While working, she has injured herself twice when needles went
through her hands. This is the experience of one woman interviewed by New
York Times journalists Nicholas Kristof and Sheryle WuDurm in an article
titled “Two Cheers for Sweatshops.” Yet she is grateful for her job. As
appalling as the conditions faced by workers in the sweatshops are, I am
against boycotting them for the purpose of ending them altogether.

First, sweatshops bring globalization and progress to developing coun-
tries. If China’s 30 provinces were counted as individual countries, then the
continent would have had 20 of the fastest growing countries in the world
between 1978 and 1995. So far, its per capita output has been doubling
every 10 years. In addition, many of the vibrant parts of the country are
located in what is called the “Sweatshop Belt.” The World Bank has also
conﬁrmed growth from sweatshops in industrial nations such as China,
South Korea,.Indonesia, and India and projected that Asia’s share of global
domestic product will rise from 55% to 60% by 2025. To put these ﬁgures
into perspective, that is roughly the West’s share at its industrial peak half
a century ago.

Secondly, sweatshops provide poor people in industrial nations
with jobs they would not otherwise have and enable them to acquire
a better life that they would otherwise not have. George Apenteng,
the director of Ghana’s Institute for Economic Affairs, said, “People
here want into the global marketplace; they know it’s the only way
out of poverty.” The International Labor Organization in a report
titled “Labour Practices in the Footwear, Leather, Textiles and Cloth-
ing Industries” found that the sweatshop industries in Asia and South
and Central America have been a major source of employment for
women in low-wage economies. For an impoverished Indonesian or
Bangladeshi woman with a handful of kids, $1 or $2 a day makes a
huge difference in her ability to provide for her children.

Thirdly, if sweatshops were to be shut down, then what would
happened to the people employed by them? These individuals would
have to resort to other means of getting financial stability, and one of
the tragic consequences has been child prostitution. In many third
world nations parents from low income families sell their children
into child prostitution to get money and to decrease the number of
mouths they must feed. In these areas, there aren’t many options but
the sweatshops do offer an option.

Another point we need to consider is that the lifestyles to which
we’re accustomed are foreign to those living in third world nations.
They can live on $1 or $2 a day whereas we can’t even survive one
hour on that kind of money. However, I do not fully support sweat-
shops. On the contrary, I think many reforms are in order, but boy-
cotting them in an attempt to force closure is not the answer and is
more harmful than helpful. The people living in third world nations
need more help than guilty Westerners refusing to buy goods from
Nike and Reebok. Until they get that help, sweatshops provide a
means of survival.

Rebuttal from Anderson

Sweatshops do not help the people they employ economically. It
is true that the third world countries that have sweatshops experience
general economic progress, but as I mentioned in my primary argu-
ment, this growth largely goes to urban centers and the middle class
by creating confidence in more advanced business in outside inves-
tors (i.e., the tech boom in India) rather than actually helping the
unskilled lower classes who work in the sweatshop. And without the
wages they need, they’H never “graduate” to higher callings.

The argument that the poor people who work in sweatshops would
perish or be forced into horrible tragedies such as child prostitution
is null and void because this happens very, very often even to people
who already work in sweatshops. True, $1 or $2 is better than noth-
ing, but not by much. The average need for income from Tran’s
impovershed Indonesian or Bangladeshi woman with a handful of
kids is at least $7, according to United Nations research. While sweat-
shops do keep people from being unemployed, this is little comfort
when they resort to selling their children anyway because their wages
aren’t enough. »

The claim that third world nation residents can live on $1 or $2 a
day is not backed up by any sort of hard evidence, and additionally,
is simply false. As I have repeatedly cited, the United Nations, as
well as the various labor departments of these poor nations’ govern-
ments, puts the need for income of the average sweatshop worker at
a minimum of $6

I, like Tran, don’t want to eliminate light industry in developing
countries completely. But the large conglomerates that own sweat-
shops do need to be persuaded that wages must be raised, maltreat-
ment must end, and hours must be reduced if these poor individuals
are to be given what they need to participate in an advanced economy-
a little spending money, their dignity and security, and time for edu-
cation.

Do SWEATSHOPS REALLY MAKE SENSE?

No

CALEY ANDERSON, ‘O6

Sweatshops, on the smface, have the very plausible beneﬁt of improving the host
nation’s economy. People point to U.S. History, and how sweatshops “improved the
economy. Thisispmﬁallymre,butasIwﬂlshow,sweatshopstomoremhindereconr>
miesthanhelpthem. WhileIdon’tthinktheyshouldbeelin1inatedaltogether,Ithink
they should undergo so much reform as to not desave the natne “sweatshops” any-
11118.

Itstandstoreasonthatifsweatshops didindeedallowfortheadvancetoahigh—
tech industry and service economy, sweatshops would be non-existent or rare in First
Wodd countries. Butthisis notthecase. Sweatshops arejustas prevalentintheG8 (the
largest at Western econonries) as they are in the poorest nations of the world Let’s
take our very own United States, and let’s pick as an industry textiles, a typical sweat-
shopindustry. lheU.S.Depar1mentofLaborestirrratesthatoutofthe22,0(X)orso
sewingshopsintheUnitedStates,atleast l1,000areingrossviolatiorrofminirmnrrwage
and overtime laws. At least 16,000, the Dept. ofLabor says, are in gross violation ofbasic
safetyandhealthlaws. Whatdoesthatmakethoseshops? Sweatshops. Andthey
comprisemor'etlranlra1foftlreU.S. textileindustry. Infact,theU.S.transitiontoan
advancedeconomymﬂycameAFIER[xogressivemfmmsmﬂreeaﬂy20mCennny
actually outlawed sweatshop conditions and improved education So, while sweat-
shops may indeedbe very good forthe higher—ups in a developing economy, who can
taketheirproﬁtofexploitationanduse ittoinvestinmoreadvanced economic pursuits,
the lower-downs suﬁa even worse. India, for instance, seems to be growing a high-tech
jobmarket. But forthe poor, it’s fool’s goldThehigh-tech jobsarebeingtakenbypeople
whowerealready’ 0 members} oftheupperclasses,mosto_fthemresidenq tsinrnajorlndian
cities.  wee probably ﬁnanced (directlyorindirectly) by the lower class’
sweatshop economy. One might assume that with more high-tech jobs comes fewer
sweatshops, but this is wrong. The lower classes suffer even more. The number of
sweatshopsinlndiahas actuallyincreasedby 32% since2000, by admission ofhrdia’s
owngovemrnent AIlthisdoesisprovidea“bettereconom)?’fortlrerichwhilemakirrg
it even worse for the poor.

Sweatshop proponents also add that the workers are “fme” with the
wage they are paid, since they are used to living in conditions of abject
poverty. This is an out-and-out lie, and the people who tell it are either
malicious or ill-inforrned. Yes, they CAN live on much less per day. But not
that much less. Let’s take the average Haitian who works at a Disney factory
located in Port-Au-Prince. According to the United Nations, their pay per day
is $2.15. Their living expenses (for themselves, not counting their families) are
more than $6.

So what’s the solution? The large conglomerates like Nike have the power
to simply end it right now. All they have to do is keep the middleman (the guy
who owns the factory) from exploiting the workers. While a wage rate of $5/hr.
is out of the question (since workers CAN live on less in those countries), they
should earn at least the living wage for their own expenses, and maybe a little
extra for savings and their family. $10/day (or $1/hr) seems fair. And are unsafe
working conditions and maltreatment of workers just to cut costs really neces-
sary? I’m sure that Nike will survive the slight decrease in proﬁts that they will
suffer by treating people humanely.

So, as you can see, light industry does have a place in developing econo-
mies. But sweatshops as they exist today are merely wringing economic viabil-
ity from the worker and giving it to people who don’t need it. Reform, massive
reform, is called for.

Rebuttal from Kim

Simply because a practice beneﬁts one group disproportionately more
than another group does not mean that it is wrong. Unfortunately, that is
economics. But the little money that does go to the little people does help
them, and that fact cannot be denied. If you worked in high school, you
might remember that you probably did much more work than your superi-
ors and earned far less, but simply because your boss got 20 times more
than you did doesn’t mean that the amount you got wasn’t helpful. We
can argue about how unfair that situation is until we’re blue, but the
reality is that you were better off with whatever little pay you got rather
than nothing at all, and the typical high school worker eventually gets a
better job. I am arguing that that is the situation for most of the people
working in the sweatshops.

lhemgrmremﬂratsweatshopsmebadbecauseonegroupberreﬁtsfartoomuch
fmrnitisweakmxiiﬂogicalifdecmualcmwenrisfmﬂreweﬂ-bdngofﬁremrpovcrished
peoplemﬂresenaﬁmrs.IdnnkIcanmasmrablyassrmreﬂntmostofmewmkersm
Westemsweatslmpsmeﬂlegalmmigrantswhomnnmoderwiseﬁndemploynmnt
becauseoftheirlackofdocumentation Myfatherandlwereonceinthatsituation
becausewewereiHegalahmsmCambodiawlnlewewmeescapingﬁom\6euramas
refugees,andlcanassmeyouthatwhatevermeagajobthatwecouldgetrmderthe
tablewasbetterthannothing. Aﬁerhavingspokentomydad(whoisﬁomV1etnam, the
horneofmany sweatshops itself) aboutthis issue, Icansaythatthepeople who work
in the sweatshops are thankful for the opportunity regardless of how difﬁcult
the work may be. They have little understanding of economics, and I do point
this out to say that they are not aware of their “suffering.”

It is the responsibility of informed citizens like us to orchestrate an inter-
national effort to reform sweatshops if we truly care, but not to end them. I
agree that change needs to happen, and I don’t know what the right approach
is and how we get the corporations to reform, but I know that it requires a
strategy in which the corporation sees the improved conditions as beneﬁcial
to their financial endeavors. So I hope and pray that the situation changes for
the better and that we will be a part of this effort.

 

 

PAGE 4

 

MONDAY, DECEMBER 8, 2003

 

Self-discovery happens on campus

rnorooouarrsro qumty.

GE1‘ INVOLVED. These students are becoming involved in a typical manner- talking to a professor.

College is a lot of things. It’s a time for fun, excitement,
independence, education, and preparing for a future ca-
reer. But it is also and most importantly a time for personal
growth and ﬁnding out who you are. Take a long look at
yourself, don’t be afraid to ﬁnd both strengths and faults,
and go about changing what you don’t like. It’s easy to
say, “just be yourself’ and not worry about bettering your-
self. I’m often guilty of this myself- and use it as an excuse
when I don’t feel like doing something I
should. But college is the time when you
get to decide who you will be— and what it
will mean to be you.

Be like Descartes and question every-
thing. Put all of your actions, attitudes,
and beliefs under scrutiny and make your own decisions
about what is right. From a very young age, we are all
instructed in how to act and what to believe. We go to our
parents’ church or synagogue, listen to their reactions to
politics and debates on T.V. ., and are confronted with the
views from their generation. They, naturally, underwent
the same process when they were growing up. When my
grandmother recently came to visit, I was surprised and
mildly irritated when she told me to have dinner ready
when my dad wanted it: because our schedules were not
as important as his. Times really have changed from the
days of the proper ﬁfties’ housewife, and rightly so! And
times should keep on changing. We live in a more politi-
cally correct and tolerant world and I am proud to be a part
of it. But we still have a ways to go, (our ﬁne institution
being no exception). For starters, let’s be politically correct
in our hearts- not our heads. Carefully picking what words
and titles to use tonot offend people is a step in the right
direction but is over—emphasized. Show kindness in your
actions— not words.
Keep up with politics and dare to have an opinion

S1'$'l‘RAVEl..C_OM

 

  
   

 
 

a %“:::»-“= aware
mam
swam
mm:

THE BIG PICTURE
ANNEF1NI.EY‘07

Letter to the Editor

Anderson mistaken in criticizing Alabama Chief Justice Roy Moore

that goes against your parents or peers. Think about
things and decide where you really stand. If you be-
lieve something— ask yourself why. If it’s just because it
was what you were always taught and had taken at face
value, then perhaps its time to consider it more carefully
(or perhaps for the first time). While you’re at it- you

might even reﬂect on levels of drinking and partying. A‘

Hint: if you are failing one or more classes, you might
consider more work and less play in the every popular
(and admittedly catchy) “work hard
play hard” scenario.

Find what is important to you and
apply yourself in those areas. If you
wish W&L had more diversity, join the
MSA or Hillel; if you lament our reputation as being
intolerant of alternative lifestyles, join the GSA; and if
you want to give back to the community, help out with
the Nabors Service League. There are so many options
to get involved at our school but not enough people
take advantage of them. Don’t just leave it to someone
else- practice what you preach. Don’t accept things
that are wrong. Make them better, or else you have no
right to complain when they aren’t the way you would
like. I’m indifferent to the Spring Term issue, but I know
many people who are heatedly against its removal. Yet,

I hear that only an embarrassing few actually attended _

the student hearings. That says it all.

Nothing really important happens effortlessly. Too
often we choose the easy way out: always picking fun
over work, only making friends with people who are like
us, condoning things we know to be wrong, and believ-

ing things just because the idea of doubting them is too ,

unsettling. We are no angels. We all have to consciously
choose to do the right thing and craft ourselves into the
person we want to become.

oward of the Week

Today, we feature the Man in the Cloth Mask:

Michael Jackson

BY OPINIONS EDITOR CALEY ANDERSON

 

You have, of course, heard of Michael
Jackson’s latest venture into legal trouble, if not,
welcome back from that cave you’ve been in-
habiting. It’s the usual charge that J ackson,
during one of the more interesting nights at his
bizane Neverland Ranch in Santa Barbara, Cali-
fornia, made inappropriate sexual advances and
actions towards a minor.

This is, of course, not the ﬁrst time this has
happened, and it’s is all a part of Jackson’s de-
clining career. Throughout the 1990s, the once,
but not future King of Pop (“I hate pop music.”
-Michael J ackson) has seen his career spiral from
stardom and reverence for his musical skills into
disappointment at his latest album, “Invincible,”
and ﬁxation on his bizarre behavior, which we
can only speculate was a textbook case of some-
one who snapped under the spotlight of fame.

J ackson’s response has predictably been
(according to his lawyer) that the 12 year—old
boy and his family are nothing more than gold-
digging lawsuit abusers, and that the Santa Bar-
bara District Attomey’s oﬁice is a haven for
racism).

Now, don’t get me wrong, Michael Jack-
son has created some really great and enjoy-
able songs over the years. “Bad,” “Beat It,”
and"1‘hriller” areallapartofhis popular, roclcin’
oeuvre. I personally recall with fondness his
musical feud with MC Hammer (during which I
rooted for The Hammer, but I enjoyed MJ’s side
of it all the same). ,

But let there be absolutely no doubt about
my feelings on this matter- pedophilia is com-
pletely inexcusable under any circumstance.
This isn’t even a case of 17 year-old “jailbait”

pedophilia, this is a 12-year old boy, and it
seems to be a particular issue with Mr. Jack-
son. A more serious 1993 case was dropped
when the wimess refused to testify out of fear
of J ackson’s wrath. Jackson himself admits he
has a “speci ” relationship with children in
his recent interview with the news media. Al-
though he says it’s “non-sexual” and that it’s
“very sweet,” I have my doubts about that.

I’ll reserve my judgment on whether or
not Jackson is guilty until the court renders its
decision, but let’s talk about what Jackson has
done so far.

He has started a huge campaign in the
press through his lawyers to smear the accus-
ing child as greedy. You might recall that this is
the same thing he did to the alleged victim in
1993. Now, it’s easy enough to defame the
character of one accuser, but when several of
them start to come forward (Santa Barbara au-
thorities have 100 leads on other individuals
Jackson may have abused), I, at least, begin to
become suspicious.

And what’s this nonsense about racism?
Jackson blames a lot of things on racism- his
ﬂagging record sales, his criminal allegations,
and generally everything that is wrong with
his life. It’s just a strawman for him to attack hi
this case, a false scapegoat that really has noth-
ing to do with the issue at hand.

So, for maliciously atiacking the many chil-
dren who have accused him of molestation,
Jackson earns my vote as Coward of the Week
Unconstitutional judges are one thing, but I
hope you’re with me in coming down on this
alleged pedophile.

     

am; , 5 (E: :2!
new may On-tempos Raps

 

In your article, You claim in
your last paragraph that Justice
Moore “is a traitor to the ideals of
the Constitution.” This could not
be further from the truth. What Jus-
tice Moore is trying to do is chal-
lenge the prevailing Supreme Court
ruling on the establishment clause
and overturn it to what he and many
others feel is a more construction-

2-800~6:$3~:%8&‘9 1 wv:w.st:tta:rc-Lzcm

ist and constitutionally sound one.
First of all, theestablishment clause
was meant to prohibit the United

Tom James Company

Interviews?
Internship?
Special occasion?

Let us help you look and feel
your best!!

Custom and Ready Made Suits
and Sports Coats

Shirts, pants, shoes and all
accessories

Student Packages &
Giﬂ Certiﬁcates Available

States government from creating an
American church, a la England. Un-
fortunately it has now been twisted
to mean “separation of church and
state,” a phrase that comes from a
letter by Thomas Jefferson in the
A ,1800’s. However, Thomas Jefferson
did not aid in writing the Constitu-
tion, he was in France at the time,
his letter was written decades after

the Constitution came into effect,
and he was not advocating for this
policy, but merely pondering it.
Anyway, “separation of church
and state” was not what the
founders intended, we know this
based on notes from the Constitu-
tional Convention. In fact, certain
members were worried that the 1st
Amendment would be viewed that
way, but others assured that it was
impossible to misconstrue(ha!).
When the Constitution was com-
pleted, George Washington called for
a day of prayer and thanksgiving and
thanked God for the opportunity to
create the document. In fact, some
of the first acts of Congress were to
publish Bibles for the Northwest Ter-
ritories and to provide for a chap-
lain. Does this sound like the cre-
ators of the Constitution intended
for the document to be read as “sepa-

ration of church and state”? Even to-
day Congress is opened with prayer.
The Constitution makes it illegal for the
government to establish (or create) its
own religion and to prohibit the free ex-
ercise of religion. It does not prohibit
any semblance of religion existing any-
where in public life as the Courts these
days seem to preposterously rule. The
1st Amendment means freedom OF reli-
gion, not freedom FROM religion. This
perversion of the Constitution is what
Justice Moore is trying to call attention
to and correct.

On side notes:

—Your refusal to capitalize “God” shows
deference toward this atheistic view of
law.

-You said it is people like Justice Moore
that are “responsible for the degradation
of America into a [sic] apathetic voter
wasteland” however, isn’t he doing just

the opposite? He’s rallying those who
agree with him, and in AL it is a con-
siderable amount, to get out and vote
and ﬁght for what they believe in.
-You say that Justice Moore has “no
respect for the law’’ and that he vio-
lated the “separation of church and
state” interpretation by the Supreme
Court as if the law and the Supreme
Court’s interpretations of it are always
correct. Remember that the Court up-
held slavery, segregation, and Japa-
nese internment camps, among other
cases.

-Any angry Alabamians write in yet?
(ed. note- no, Alexa, but check the last
issue of the Trident to check out an
Alabamian’s response, and pick up
this coming Wednesday’s issue to see
my response to these criticisms in the
form of a letter to the editor

-Alexa Moutevelis

Get real-World sales, marketing
and management experience

Phi Business is currently looking for new staff

Call Paul Seifert at 458-4060 or
phi-business@wlu.edu

Contact Adam Wﬂliarns
for an appointment or
with questions

540-815-4557
AdamWﬂliarns@tomjarnesretaﬂ.com

 

637 Waddell St.
Lexington, Va. 24450

(540) 464-9042

Fax (540)464-6360

#1 Spring Break Vacations!
Cancun, Jamaica, Acapulco, Bahamas,
69 Mazatlan, Florida, SPadre. 110% Best Prices!
Book Now & Get Free Parties & Meals!
Group Discounts, Now Hiring Campus
Reps! 1-800-234-7007
endlesssummertours.com

SPORTSWEAR

 

 

  

J(}NHY1Al\D

. AssrrANrSi>onsEoi10R

FMAi;HY1ANo@wiiiE1)U

MONDAY, DECEMBER 8, 2003

 

Generals earn first ODAC Victory after droppin

JOHN HYLAND
ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITOR

After dropping their first three de-
cisions, the W&L basketball team has
won two out of their past three games.
Last week, the Generals earned their ﬁrst
ODAC victory against Guilford on
Wednesday then dropped a tough non-
conference contest to Chowan on Sat-
urday.

In the Generals road victory
against Guilford (2-4, 0-1 ODAC), they

got off to a slow start and were down «

33-25 ‘heading into halftime. The Quak-
ers would extend their lead to as much
as ten points at 37-27, two minutes into
the second half but their good fortune
would end there. The Generals went on
a 16-3 run over the next eight minutes
and held a 43-40 lead with 9:26 remain-
ing. Guilford would trim the lead to 45-
43 with just under ﬁve minutes remain-
ing but it was close as they would get
as the Generals preserved their lead en
route to a 59-50 victory. Despite being
outrebounded 40-35, the Generals
stingy defense was clearly the differ-
ence in the game. The Generals allowed
just six second half ﬁeld goals and for
the game, held the Quakers to 29%
shooting from the ﬁeld, while shooting
47% themselves. Another key stat was
W&L’s foul shooting, going a perfect

12 for 12 in the second half. Individu- '

ally, sophomore swingman Phil Landes’
15 points and freshman guard Chris
Halkitis’ 14 points led the Generals. Se-

nior point guard Michael Denbow paced W&L on
both ends of the ﬂoor, contributing 6 assists and 5

steals.

In Saturday’s home loss, W&L let their third

straight victory slip through their fingertips. The
game was close throughout, with Chowan assum-

ing a 37-34 lead at halftime. However, the'Generals

got hot midway through the second half and went

on a 15-5 run, taking a 66-64 lead on a pair of Landes
free throws with 2:46 remaining. The Generals would
be shut out for the remainder of the day. On the
next possession, Chowan sunk a three-pointer, clos-

 

CODY GABBARD / RINGTUM PHI

BRING rr ON. Freshman forward Alex White takes on a Chowan defender in the tearn’s non—conference Saturday loss.

PAGE 5

g three

a

ing the game on an 8-0 run to down the
Generals 72-66. In the loss, W&L was
led by frshman guard Coleman Lyons ’
16 points. Halkitis chipped in 1 1 points
while sophomore forward David Will
added 10 points. Freshman forward
Alex White had a solid all-around game,
contributing 8 points and 8 rebounds.
The Generals were once again
outrebounded, 33-27. Their solid ﬁeld
goal defense in the Guilford game
eluded them as Chowan shot 52% to
their own 46%.

The Generals appear to have re-
bounded from their early season los-
ing streak that included a defeat to Di-
vision I Citadel. Clearly, much of those
woes can be attributed to unfamiliar-
ity, as there are a lot of new faces in the
Generals’ program. W&L is under the
direction of ﬁrst year head coach Adam
Hutchinson, an Amherst College gradu-
ate, who comes to Lexington from Case
Western Reserve University in Cleve-
land. In addition, the Generals lost their
top two scorers from last season and
the roster features only two juniors and
two seniors and six freshmen. The Gen-
erals will rely on senior captains
Denbow and forward Hamil Jones to
lead the underclassmen. Already, it ap-
pears that the younger guys are re-
sponding. So far this season, Halkitis
and Will are the Generals’ leading scor-
ers while as aforementioned, freshman
Landes, Lyons and White have all
turned out solid performances in recent
games. The Generals’ success this sea-

son will depend on how quickly these diaper dan-
dies can adjust to the college game. W&L returns
to ODAC action when they travel to Bridgewater in
their last contest before Christmas.

Swim teams compete in invitationals Over the weekend

Women place third in
Randolph-Macon invitational

ALLISON PERRY
CONTRIBUTING EDITOR

The womens’ swim team
traveled to Randolph-Macon
where it placed third out of eight
teams in the two-day invita-
tional.

Placing ahead of the
women’s team were Marymount
with 423 points and Randolph-
Macon with 409 points. The
Generals finished with 375
points.

Helping Washington and
Lee in its third place ﬁnish was
sophomore Kristine Holda, who
came in second in the 100
freestyle with a time of 56.43.

Holda also came in second in the
200 freestyle with a time of
2:05.05.

Junior Laura Westerman
placed second in 200 IM at
2:27.84 and fourth in the 200 but-
terﬂy at 2:35.82.

In the 100 breaststroke, fresh-
man Abbie Sauter finished third
with atime of 1 : 16.46. SeniorEiin
Dougherty also contributed to
the Generals’ score with a time of
20:42.95 inthe 1650 freestyle, plac-
ing her at third in that race.

The women’s team now has
a record of 6-2, 3-0 in the ODAC.
They do not compete again until
January when they travel to
Randolph-Macon on the tenth.

Golf Etiquette
tip of the
week:

A relaxed grip
will always work
better than a
firm one on dis-
tance shots.

Men place ﬁfth in Franklin & Marshall invitational

W&L Sponrs RELEASE

The Washington and Lee
men’s swimming team finished in
fifth ‘place at the three-day
Franklin & Marshall Invitational,
concluded on Sunday in
Lancaster, Pa.

The Generals scored 793.5
team points, while invitational
champion Mary Washington
scored 1,632 team points. Spring-

ﬁeld (1,200) ﬁnished second over-
all, followed by Ithaca (1,142),
Gettysburg (958.5), W&L,
Franklin and Marshall (575.5),
McDaniel (340.5) and Saint
Mary’s (111).

Washington and Lee’s day-
three efforts were paced by se-
nior Eric Ritter (Birmingham, Ala]
Mountain Brook), who won the
200 Back with a national “B-cut”
time of 1:55.04. The victory

marked his third top—place finish
in the invitational. On day two
he won the 50 Free with a time of
21.64 and touched the wall ﬁrst
in the 100 Back with a national
“A-cut” time of 5 1.40.
Freshman Mike Ginder
(Jacksonville, Fla./Episcopal)
concluded the weekend with a
strong day-three performance.
Ginder finished second in the 100
Free with a time of 47.67 and com-

bined with Ritter, senior Drew
Catanese (Southampton, Mass./
Sufﬁeld Acadamey) -and junior
Chris~Colby (Ossining, N.Y./
Archbishop Stepinac) for a sec-
ond-place time of 3: 15.64 in the
400 Free Relay.

Washington and Lee returns
to action on Saturday, January 3,
when the Generals travel to the
Florida Atlantic Invitational.
Meet time is 10:00 a.m.

GENE

RALS’

ATHLE

11C5

Phi-Sports

€323? §.*?i§§§ ‘fear?

323.521 Spits}: ‘E’-ears
i.$$§.<i£§.*?‘?3%
are°re,saas§§asi:tei2ra.a3am

 
 
 
 

 

 

Need a rest ﬁom
Holiday-itis?

Treat yourself to a
luxurious full body message by

Kelly Harris, BA, cm

Certiﬁed Massage Therapist
Board of Nursing C'eI'tifi'ed
13 Years Experience

Gift Certiﬁcates Make
Excellent Stocking Stuffers!

(540) 264-0063

Plirllfii

Gt.€:R§o”». i..awae.2»:aa Rmee.
§°£LaFf£3}}‘&LEX,<2b£E}Ei§€ triemw

309 N. lhjn St.

  
  

~ Lexington, VA 24450

Phi

Sports

guaranteed
or your money back"

Going  law school in  Prwam tor the LSAT

wim  here on campus at WAELII

classes begin on Fshmmy 23. 

Enroll   begin your
mum: at any ﬂaunt!



'13:? in Ea nagiarlmai madman: arms Lina  Muhim cuaaii.

 all =mqmat.1=a.!aa44ea or  aaaasims.
.e::vmuiet1e. all  teats.  {'39 ymar nomewmk;
at your more noaac-it  on  uasr'I'r<m your
einptm diagrmﬁc at a grim oflicial test score, you
ism erwoaa tn meant our anagram tar“ start or gait. it
31:53  at war tmIII:'Iim To ueeilglhle furmls affI.s.r.:
 ttssiéit be-311259386 in 3tariim"'s liﬁ classroom.
§:l:$§m’E31.3; osronilrna mama. 3‘! adilltiora, Ktuiznust
present an uéﬂeial  of yam mare remit and
autunit your rzamree nisteriata icttniri an  .

méﬁarioslons

KAPLAN

 

I-nan-use-1:31
kaptestcom,/law

 

    

PAGE 6

BY Knvr GUNST
STAFF WRHER

The women’s basketball

- team won both of their games last

week, defeating Emory & Henry
(60-55) on Wednesday and St.
Mary’s (73-54) on Saturday.

The Generals saw two play-
ers record double-doubles in
Wednesday’s game.

Freshman forward Jessica
Hunsinger led the team with a
game—high 17 points, a career-
high 16 rebounds and a program

_ record eight blocks.

Sophomore guard Louisa
Feve also recorded a double-
double with 13 points and 10 re-
bounds, while freshman guard
Sarah Otey rounded out the

Indoor track teams compete in VMI Invitational

BY KIM GUNST
STAFF WRIIER

The men’s and women’s in-
door track teams began their sea-
son by competing in the VMI
Keydet Invitational on Saturday
afternoon.

Strong performances by the

. _ freshmen look promising for the
women’s I

team. Sara
Behmerwohld placed second
among Division III competitors
in the 55—meter high hurdles with
a time of 9.78 and Kathryn

team’s double-digit scorers with
10 points.

Captain Bethany Darmelly is
very impressed with the team’s
hard work and strong perfor-
mances so far this season.

“With our win against
Emory and Henry and several
other close games, I think that we
all now believe that we can com-
pete with any teamintheODA ,”
Dannelly said about
Wednesday’s win. “I think that
the other ODAC teams will also
begin to realize that we are a much
stronger team than we have been
in the past.”

Senior forward Sarah
Michaels proved just that as she
ledgthe Generals to a victory in

Brennan tied for second in the
pole vault with a school-record
vault of 8.00’.

Junior Ann Tompkins, a new
addition to the women’s team, will
also be a strong competitor this
season. She placed second
among D111 athletes in the 200-
meter dash with a time of 29.54.

The women’s team is look-
ing forward to the rest of their
season. “Track is off to a great
start,” Captain Meredith Walker
said. “We have worked hard this
fall, and while we have a promis-
ing amount of individual talent,

Sﬁbﬁrs
-Womens’ basketball takes two straight

MONDAY, DECEMBER 8, 2003

Saturday's game against St.
Mary’s. She scored a season-
high 26 points and grabbed a ca-
reer-high 16 rebounds.
Michaels scored six of her
points on a pair of three-pointers
that provoked a 12-2 W&L run
to close the first half, giving the
team a 34-25 halftime edge that
they would not surrender.
Michaels canned 5-of-8
three-point attempts and had
three assists. Sophomore guard
Louisa Feve scored a season-
high 20 points, grabbed seven
rebounds and had a team—high
ﬁve assists. Freshman forward
Jessica Hunsinger added 10
points and eight rebounds to
compliment Michaels’ and Feve’s

we are also beginning to come
together as a team. We have
plenty of time to work on techni-
cal improvements, but it was great
to see everyone supporting one
another at our ﬁrst meet.”

On the men’s side, sopho-
more Keith Sullivan led the way
by placing second among DIII
athletes in the triple jump (11.90
meters) and third in the long jump
(5.71 meters). Junior Lee Stirmett
also had a great start to the sea-
son. He ﬁnished ﬁfth among Di-
vision IH competitors in the 55-
meters (7.06) and 200—meters

efforts.

edly off to a great start this sea-
son. “We have played very com-
petitively in every game this sea-
son,” Dannelly said while dis-
cussing the team’s expectations
for the season.

team is very optimistic about our
potential for this season. Coach
King has done a great job of be-
basketball program.”

total from all of last season and

The women are undoubt-

“I think that everyone on the

ginning to rebuild the women’s
The team matched their win

are now 3-3 overall. The Gener-
als will return to action on Tues-
day as they host Southern Vir-
ginia for a 7:00 pm contest.

(25.66).

Head Running Coach Nate
Hoey foresees a great season for
the Generals this year. “I’m
happy with the way things turned
out,” he said after the meet on
Saturday. “We’re deﬁnitely look-
ing forward to getting ready for
Indoor ODACs. I think we’re go-
ing to turn some heads this
year.”

The men’s and women’s
track teams will return to action
on January 24 when they com-
pete in the Susqueharma Univer-
sity Invitational.

JUMP SHOT. A General shoots for two during the team’s 60-55 win over
Emory 85 Henry on Wednesday.

Tuesday, December 7

Wednesday, December 8

Thursday, December 9

THIS WEEK’s SCI-

Friday, December 10 i

* DULE

Saturday, December 11 — 1 Sunday, December 12

0 W Basketball vs.

0 M Basketball at

Southern Virginia--7:00 Bridgewater--7:00

0 Open

0 Open

0 Open 0 Open

 

The Johns Hopki
Premedical Progr

academic advisin

If you or someon

 
  
 

Wash & Lee Post Bac 04

For more informat n, visit
www.jhu.eduIpc$s 9 ac or call 410-516-7748.

7 records to
Is by giving

nt 0 become a doctor.”

 
   
     
 
  

 
 

gou know wants to pursue a
career as a doctor apply by March 1.

lity:

“I don’t have the
required courses
for medical school.”

 

IOHNS

Post-Baccalaureate
Premedical Program

HOPKINS

 

KELLY Jo LARSEN
STAFF WRITER

Senior Kisha Barnes is no stranger to
working with minority issues. As one of the
founding members of the Washington and
Lee Chapter of the NAACP, the National As-
sociation for the Advancement of Colored
People, she has been actively involved with
many aspects of diversity on campus.

Originally from the D.C. area, she came
to W&L as a transfer student from Drew Uni-
versity in New Jersey on the good words of
her friend, Marinda Harrell. With a laugh,
Kisha says Marinda, “conned” her into com-
ing, but that she’s “very grateful to her” for
the experience. As an African-American fe-
male, she has always been interested in mi-
nority affairs. While at Drew University she
hoped to start an NAACP chapter there, but
left before she had the opportunity. When
she arrived in Lexington, she heard about a
failed attempt to start a chapter on campus
and, after speaking to then Dean of Minor-
ity Affairs Courtney Penn, she decided to
give the chapter another try. The W&L chap-
ter was started two years ago, and has been
actively working to sustain itself on campus
since then.

Nationally, the NAACP focuses on pri-
marily African-American issues, but also
works on many different minority issues. Ac-
cording to Kisha, nationally, they “do a bit
of lobbying, some protests, voter registra-
tions, focusing on youth empowerment, and
letter writing campaigns” though that is not
all that they do. On campus, the NAACP is
currently planning a Voter Registration Drive
to be held in January. They hope to work

McD0nalds names W&L
its featured business

BY KATHERINE SHELL

 ”‘8t LIFE

Senior Kisha Barnes devoted to bringing diversity to W&L

with Young Democrats to get people regis-
tered to vote in Virginia. Kisha explains, “I
don’t think politics is as important an issue
as it should be in Lexington, especially from
a minority point of view.” The W&L NAACP
is also planning to host a Night of Achieve-
ment at Rockbridge County High School to
recognize some students who might not be

otherwise recognized. They also have con-_

ducted a tutoring program with the Human
Rights Alliance.

Recently they have written a two sepa-
rate letters to President Burish expressing con-
cern over the lack of minorities in the admin-
istration and on staff. The second one in-
cluded a package from the NAACP entitled
“Call for Action” which asked for a plan from
the University for increasing its diversity and
creating a diverse curriculum. President Burish
sent them a letter explaining that because of
its location, it’s hard to recruit a diverse staff.
Kisha says they are now trying to “get at the
heart of the matter and that it might be a fail-
ure in active recruitment” that explains the lack
of diversity at W&L.

Being a leader of a minority group on cam-
pus hasn’t been easy for Kisha. Getting people
involved has been the biggest challenge. In
the future, she explains, “I hope to guarantee
that the NAACP will be in existence after I
leave and they are successful.” The NAACP
is open to all students, regardless of race.

When talking about diversity,’ Kisha
wants everyone to realize that black students
are not trying to separate themselves. “We’re
not trying to be social outcasts,” rather, she
believes “we need to start dispelling stereo-
types.” At W&L, Kisha said, “the environ-
ment forces us to fit into a box... We have to

MKEANMORGAN
ARlS&llFEEDl'l0R

mm m
MONDAY, DECEMBER 8, 2003

STEVEN MARINOS / Tl-lER1l\1O'E:.7'[J1l{P1"-H

get past stereotypes and the misconception
that minorities want to assimilate.”

Kisha would like to see a shift to recog-
nizing the value of diversity rather than try-
ing to force people to fit into a preconceived
perception. Part of this could be fostered by
all the minority groups working together and
working along with non-minorities. Kisha

SENIOR STAFF WRITER

Washington and Lee
has chosen McDonald’s
as the featured business
of the month for Decem-
ber. This entitles all stu-
dents and faculty to a
fifty percent discount at
the McDonald’s on 62
East Midland Trail from
now until December 315‘.

The discount is valid
during breakfast hours
Monday through Friday
from 6:30 AM until 10:30
AM and Saturday and
Sunday from 6:30 AM un-
til 11:00 AM. There are

especially large orders be
called in ahead of time at
540- 463- 3600. A W&L
I.D. is required to obtain
the discount.

The restaurant’s menu
offers a wide selection of
American food. Diners can
enjoy everything from ham-
burgers to chicken ﬁlet sand-
wiches. Breakfast, lunch
and dinner are served daily.

McDonald’s is not the
only restaurant offering
discounts to W&L stu-
dents and faculty. The
Arby’s at 512 East Nelson
Street is currently offer-
ing a twenty percent dis-
count to students and

holds high hopes for Washington and Lee’s
future, “I really believe we have the poten-
tial to welcome diversity... we just need to
break down social barriers and create an en-
vironment where we can talk and converse. I
don’t mean a utopian society, but a place
where we are at least comfortable to commu-
nicate.”

Campbell and Costa engaged to be married

Bemie Campbell, a member
of the Washington and Lee
class of 2005 recently got
engagned to to Sara Costa, Wil-
liam and Mary class of 2005.

Both Bernie and Sara hail
from New Hampshire, where
they attended Salem High

’ ’School"f6’ge’tliér. They have
been dating for three and one
half years. They began dating
during a high school musical
production, Brigadoon, where
Campbell was an actor and
Costa was a member of the tech-
nical crew. They were also were
members of the high school
quiz bowl team together.

Bernie is a history major at
W&L and plans to go into
teaching, and Sara is a Chemis-
try major at W&M and plans to
pursue a graduate degree be-

fore going into the research
field. The couple has not yet
set a date for the wedding, and
will not do so before gradua-
tion.

no regulations on how

much food can be bought University I.D.’s.- The

with the discount. Arby’s offer is valid all
McDonald’s ask that day.

faculty that have their

¢¢¢¢<l>¢<l>¢<i>¢4>¢<i>¢¢¢¢¢¢¢¢¢¢¢¢¢¢<l>¢¢<l>¢¢¢

Career Services armounces

Scholarship for
Professional
Development in Media

Triple Nine Society
Founded 1978
Extraordinary camaraderie

in a" $500 tt d d’ nf .  ' 4 '

international society of peers. to a 6" a me la C0 creme

99.9th percentile: ' ' - - ,
old SAT 1450, new SAT 1520, Applications due January 6, 2004 , .

 uaran ee

or your money back"

see complete list at:
wvvw.tr1'p|enine.org
Prepare for the April  MEAT
with Kapaan here an eampm at W&L”

Visit careerservices.wlu.edu
for more information

Submit
your
anonymous

University
Cleaners

classes begin Jeawary 10. 1034.
Enrnll   ﬂctaber 3131 and receive
THE CLEANEST or THE CLEAN. on-vllrw 36mm Ravi!-W FREE!
CALL US FOR ALL or YOUR DRY CLEANING

LAUNDRY AND ALTERATIONS NEEDS

Quick Hits

wuﬂdl4a:larhT;ostPra9

 EnPtnn

1-sen-use-rrsr
irapbaataom/ptnmed

‘Milt? in A  mmasmarm hneei&1 -ntamnixn

 all inquired classes or fl-‘lllm-[:81 sessions.
ezmplaiaa all twftedtﬁed transits, mrimysrrur 
at war were deeiaraft lmpram on was my firm Emir
Er;-apran aragmmrum a pillar’ ufﬁalal rm sum, years"
can crmeweetxs rsapazrt Eur panama: $are‘te'rmr was
$1.34!  5:? mgr traitiaa. Tc; in: -eilgllzle ‘tartar; afﬁar.
year must be errrmaad in ﬂamers“-3 ma claaemuim.
§.uturle.ra*., oer Mum mama in mrtltm. yciizmaat
girerumt an otileial  of _1yIc'3ia5" more  and
aoulwnlt mart mama rrrrabnriale ’airilt’rlr.'1 so 

Great Service   to
First—Rate Quality

7 North Jefferson Street
463-3622

dry cleaning,
laundry, alterations

 

 

PAGE 8

TrrElLil’

 

MBZANMORGAN
AEis&Iii=EEDrroR

l:‘MAiL-MoReuwii@rirJH1J

MONDAY, DECEMBER 8, 2003

Date Economics at Washington and Lee — Importing is Best

A long time ago, before the first female stu-
dents matriculated in another Great Leap Forward
of university lore, importing was a way of life. From
Sweetbriar, Hollins, Randy—Mac Womens College,
Mary Baldwin, and of course, the dreaded South-
em—Sem, the girls would ﬂock to Lexington on the
weekends to get a little taste of the frat life and
accompany their favorite frat lord to wild date func-
tions. Fraternity boys would buy
their booze, get their bands, and the
ladies would just roll in.

Then girls came to W&L. No big
deal. Then came the sororities. Guess
it had to happen sometime, with such a Greek-ori-

 
 

ented place. And then, while no one was paying _

attention, the entire dating scene at W&L changed
completely when sororities began to dominate the
dating scene of this school.

At first glance, this doesn’t seem to make a lot
of sense. After all, isn’t it the fraternities that throw‘
the parties? Aren’t the date functions all fraternity
events? It’s the guys that ask out the girls, right?

Perhaps, but as every fraternity boy under-
stands, the sororities determine where the fraterni-

'P{E§6L"urI="EXfr6r“D"

ties stand in W&L life. Naturally, frat guys are as-
sessed partially on who they get fratty with, spe-
ciﬁcally the girls that can be found at their houses.
Would the Big Four (if such a thing exists) be so big
if they didn’t have hot sorority women ﬂock to them
in numbers? Would the “lesser” houses be less
sensitive if they could mix with the top—o-the—line
sisterhoods?

Certainly there will be critics re-
sponding with something like
“you’re overreacting Tim — sorori-
ties don’t make certain houses
cool and other houses less cool.”
Well why are fraternities compelled to mass-pro-
duce T—shirts that proclaim to the world that they
pimp sorority chicks like gods. You gotta just love
those “Mixer Shirts” — my favorites are the ones
that displayed to anyone with the power of sight
that a fraternity mixed with two sororities in the same
weekend. Did you guys want a prize, other than a
lame T—shirt, for being pirnp—daddies? Why else
would these shirts exist if not to broadcast that so-
rorities really do affect where fraternities stand here
on campus.

Thus, we’ve concluded that sororities do mat-
ter. Ifyou’re a frat boy, you’re in some way affected
by this weird sorority-fraterrrity dynamic. What
can you do? Maybe we should look back to our
past for the answer.

I’m fortunate to have friends in the various schools
close to Lexington. Anytime I’ve brought an “out-
sider’ ’ girl to frat functions, I’ve always been refreshed
by hanging out with someone who wasn’t already
molded by the Greek culture at W&L. Before I go fur-
ther, I should say that I’ve always been a big supporter
of our school and the way it is — for all the negative
idiosynchrocies we can ﬁnd in our Greek system, I’ve
never seen or learned of a better fraternity/sorority cul-
ture anywhere. But once you get into it, there’s no
getting out. It’s tough to be a student at W&L and not
see things inthe black and white of Greek life. I have to
believe that before sororities came to W&L, people
were less concerned about what house they belonged
to and who was better or worse, and were more worried
about which girl school girl they were going to try to
mack it with over the weekend.

Why not get back to that? Imported girls have
no concept of which houses are the supposed

“cool” houses. They’re just here to party. Through
the passing of legends, they know that W&L is a
marquee party school — they come for the fun, for
the magic. They certainly don’t come to hook up
with Joe Schmoe from Fraternity X because his house
is the downright coolest on earth.

I have no problem with sorority girls. I just
happen to know girls in sororities. I like pretty much
all of them. And they haven’t done anything wrong.
It’s all a product of our environment. By default,
W&L girls have been W&L-ized. It doesn’t make
them any less fun to have for date functions. But,
just once in a while, it’s fun to bring in someone
who’s not a part of the system. Someone who
doesn’t have all the Greek pretentiousness that we
can never seem to separate ourselves from. Some-
one who knows nothing about Lexington. Some-
one who just wants to have fun.

Those frat lords of the past didn’t have much
of a choice. Nowadays, we have our own ladies to
contend with. But think about all those poor souls
around the world who haven’t yet experienced a
W&L party. They deserve a chance. Import one
over — you may be pleasantly surprised.

    
    
 

Wa - ons
“D77 '~

uuwuu onda.com I

6
k-‘

riven: What do W&L undergrads drive?”

Data provided by University Security. Margin oferror +I- six percent.

uutumtoyota . co m

Golden Rule-family secret to success, act as

BY MARSHALL RULE
STAFF WRITER

Delayed ﬂights. Lost luggage. Missed connec-
tions. They are all a part of travel, especially during
the holiday season. Approximately 36 million people
traveled over Thanksgiving in order to be with ﬁiends
and family. With that many people ﬂying, there are
bound to be problems and inconveniences for ﬂiers.

All these inconveniences left many ﬂiers, includ-
ing myself, frustrated, annoyed, and angry. But is it

‘ - right to take out all of our anger on the attendant be-

hind the desk, or on the voice on the other end of the
phone? While sitting at the gate feeling sorry for
myself about my delayed ﬂight, I noticed countless
people yelling and threatening the attendant. I began
to feel sorry for the poor fellow behind the desk who
was getting blamed for all of the airlines problems.
People seemed to think it was his fault that the plane

didn’t pass inspection earlier in the morning. The
poor guy is a customer service representative, not a
mechanic.

Here, ladies and gentlemen, is a valuable lesson I
learned from my family many years ago. The lesson is
how to solve problems and get what you want by
acting like a true, yet slightly manipulative lady or
gentleman, whichever applies _to you. I was taught
that you can’t always get what you want by forcing
other people to help you. In order to get what you
want or need, you must operate delicately. This is my
family’s secret to success. By following these simple
instructions, you will not only be a step closer to get-
ting what you want, but you will also avoid looking
like a malevolent jerk. No one wants to look like a
malevolent jerk.

1. The first thing you must do is ﬁnd a customer
service agent of the opposite sex. You may have to
allow other people in line to go ahead of you in order

INFOGRAPHIC BY KATIE HOWELL / THE RING-TUM PHI

genuine manipulative gentleman

to accomplish this, but trust me, it is well worth it.

2. Learn these words: “I have a problem and I need
your help Practice these words until they roll off your
tongue. Guys, let’s be honest, when a girl says they
need our help we get all excited for the chance to be a
knight in shining armor to some little hottie. And girls,
you too get excited to be able to show some conceited,
egotistical pig that he needs women to make it through
the day. It also never hurts to throw in a couple of
compliments, such as, “Wow, you sure do strike that
keyboard with masculine authority.” (Note: guys do
not use that line on women. A woman would not ﬁnd
that that remark as complimentary as a man might).

It’s that simple folks. Acute face, some key words,
and a bit of manipulation. That’s all that stands be-
tween you and everything you ever wanted. After
seeing your puppy dog face, the airline worker, bank
teller or even police ofﬁcer may just go a little above and
beyond to help you out. Maybe even the cashier at a

grocery store just may spot you that extra quarter for
your six pack of Budweis-—I mean soda

When you are nice to people, they will be nice to
you. When you act like a sadistic madman, that’s ex-
actly what you are going to get in retum. It isn’t the
attendant’s fault that the plane’s girder on the rotary belt
is broke. Nor is it the cashier’s fault that you can’t aﬁord
a six pack

There is a saying that, ‘you can’t control what
happens to you, you can only control your reaction to
it.” So don’t be that guy standing at the counter yelling
and screaming that because of a cancelled ﬂight you are
going to miss “Friends” on NBC. Instead, put on that
sad desperate face, and work my family’s magic. After
all, there is a reason that I have been pulled over ﬁve
times and have never received a ticket. The knowledge
is yours now. Share it with your family and friends, but
not too many. We need to keep this family secret a little
bit quiet.

UIT

Q Despite all the money the school spent on air
conditioning to keep the classrooms frigid in the
summer, the penny-pinchers in Washington Hall
certainly aren’t wasting any money warming cam-
pus now that it’s winter.

 

Q Compared to all of the other houses, the Christ-
mas lights at SPE are a little lacking.

Q The best part of the Main Street parade was
the drunken elf running through it. Thanks, buddy.

Q The more educated a woman is, the less likely
it is that she’ll marry and have children.

Q Women smile more than men.

Q Fraternity men really ought to do a better job
telling dates what to wear at their events.

Q Wow! Wasn’t Traveller’s personal celebrity
sober driver the best idea to rock this campus in a
long time? Thanks to Dean Watkins for giving up
her time. Congrats to winner BJ Conrad.

Q Hey Sam Walton: not selling Hanukah
paraphanalia at Wal~Mart is discriminating.

Q Can anyone tell me what war the Salvation
Army fought in?

Q Three cheers to Right Food Red for playing
“Hava Nagila” at Lambda Chi this weekend. Way
to mix up the set list.

Q As I was jamming my fork into the toaster, my
friend said he didn’t think it was a good idea. So I
said, “Yeah? Well, I don’t think it’s a good idea to
be a loser, just like you!” He tried to say something
else, but I was laughing too hard to hear him.

Q I am being naughty for the rest of the year. I
would do anything for Cole in my stocking—- Cole
Boyle that is.

Q C—Money, quit feeding the geese before dinner.
Q Why are the italicized urnlauted U’s (U) com-

ing, who really cares. and why is something killing
trees to inform us?

Q Grendel has had an accident. So may you all!

Q If somebody ever calls you pretentious, a nice
comeback would be to say, “Pretentious!?! Moi?”
because you’d dispel the unwarranted accusation
and at the same time show your knowledge of French.

Q How many licks does it take to get to the cen-
ter of a Lalli Pop?

Q TFC: It’s almost 2004, you guys should start
looking at the newest Lexus SUV models.

Q If there is anyone interested in indexing 1700+
students, please e—mail the Calyx at
calyx@wlu.edu.

Q What will be declared “rights” next? Is there a .

human right to a comfortable bed, a car, free health
care, and a college education?

Q Please remember, in December, to giftwrap
your member.

Q If the police ever catch you stealing a rare dia-
mond, I bet a funny thing to say would be that
your dog had told you to do it. How would they
know what your dog said?

Q With all the effort to remove them from cam-
pus, you’d think dead leaves were the Brides of

Satan or something.

Q Is it just me, or are the Cadavers slacking?

Q When lifting a cow, even one only one—week—
old, always lift from the knees.

Q Throwing snowballs or any other missile at a
passing car is a felony.

Q The best lineup for the men’s basketball team
includes three freshmen and two sophomores.

Q It’s not a good idea to order Dornino’s pizza if
you plan to pass out before it arrives. It’s an espe-
cially bad idea if you pay with a credit card because
they still get the money and you don’t get any pizza.

Q Who took the time to attach bells to all of the
W&L Life condoms? Talk about a waste of Univer-
sity resources!

Q Snow hiking is a fun pasttime and should be
enjoyed as long as the snow lasts.

Q Snowﬂake, a rare albino gorilla, has died in the
Barcelona Zoo. We mourn her passing.

Q The Commons smells like a hamster cage.
Q The student who asked Dean Futrell to Christ-
mas Weekend would like her to know he is heart-

broken that she didn’t accept his invitation.

Q E—mail your anonymous Quick Hits and fun
stories from Christmas break to phi@wlu.edu.

x.-In

 

  

..;

BY CHRIS LAUDERMAN
SENIOR STAFF WRITER

Buffalo Creek Music Festival, a fifteen year Washington
and Lee event, may have heard its last band.

The fourteen fraternities on campus sponsor the event
held at Zollman’s each spring. Traditionally, each fraternity
contributes $1,000 to the festival.

According to Matthew Jacobs, IFC Advisor, every frater-
nity has a stipulation in their risk management policy that pro-
hibits joint parties of this magnitude with alcohol present.
“There are no standards that allow fourteen fraternities to host
one party with alcohol. I cannot let them ﬂy in the face of their
risk management policies,” said Jacobs. He went on to de-
scribe Buffalo Creek as a huge risk management nightmare and
the “mother of all open parties.” The festival is a very large,
public event open to the entire student body. M

If anyone were to get injured at Buffalo Creek, all fourteen
fraternities would be responsible and that would bring on a
myriad of litigation.

Buddy Atkins, Acting Director of the Commons and former
IFC Advisor, stated that Buffalo Creek started as an event not
sponsored by the fraternities. Some students sold tickets to
the event which featured inexpensive bands. Eventually, Buf-
falo Creek grew and better bands that were brought in. To
bring in these bands, Buffalo Creek needed the monetary sup-
port of the fraternities. Eventually students stopped buying
tickets and the fraternities took over full responsibility.

Jacobs said it was up to the student organizers to change
the event so it is not a risk to the fraternities if it was going to
stay in existence. “Buffalo Creek could be tomorrow if alcohol
was not involved,” said Jacobs. Some alternatives he men-
tioned were individuals funding the event or charging for ad-
mission.

Inge Hill, co—producer of the Buffalo Creek Music Festival
said that this is thegfirst year the University has chosen to
enforce the mass party rule. He said he is concerned that the
event will not happen if sufficient funds cannot be raised. Hill
said he was not informed that Buffalo Creek would not happen
until he asked the fraternities to write the check. Hill had not
yet signed formal contracts with bands, but had been in touch
with them about their availability for Buffalo Creek.

 PI—II

  lire student voice of Washington rmdlee University since I 897
Enforcement of national rules may end Buffalo Creek Festival

/571:7; 
VOLUME CVII, No.V1iI
MONDAYJANUARY 12,2004

FEE PHOTO

Couches burning. Buffalo Creek has been a time for students to relax and listen to music outdorrs during Spring Term. Couch-burning has
also been a traditional activity in the past. Such huge parties are a liability for fratnernities and the IF C may end the festival due to this liability.

“Every student understands what a unique and great event to
this school Buffalo Creek is and it is tragic the students may be
losing yet another tradition,” said Hill. Hill mentioned that dona-
tions of $20 from students who care about the festival would be great
for trying to save Buffalo Creek.

“Losing Buffalo Creek seems to be of no concern to the admin-

istration. If no insurance policy is available to cover possible dam-
ages, the school will lose a unique tradition that allows fraternity
members that would not otherwise socialize to do so,” said Jamie
Whiteman, President of Kappa Sigma.

For ideas on fundraisers or to make a donation to the Buffalo
Creek 2004 fund, contact Inge Hill at hillrn@wlu.edu.

Fraternities:

Beta Theta Pi: 9 
Chi Psi: 11 (-3)
Kappa Alpriaz 18 (+ 8)
Kappa Sigma: 16 (+ 1)
Lambda Chi Alpha: 15 (+ 1)
Phi Delta Theta: 19 (+ 1)
Phi Gamma Delta: 16 (-9)
Phi Kappa Psi: 4 (O)

Prii Kappa Sigma: 18 (+ 8)
Pi Kappa Alpha: 11(+ 1)

Sigma Chi: 21 (+ 11)
Sigma Nu: 10 (+ 6)

Sigma Alpha Epsilon: 15 

' 2004 Greek Rush Results  

and change from last year:

Kappa Kappa Gamma: 37 1)

The first number represents the
number Of pledges for the frater-
nity, the second reflects the change

Sororities:
Chi Omega: 37 (+ 1)
Kappa Alpha Theta: 37 1)
Kappa Delta: 37 (O)

PiBeta Phi: 31 (+4)

from last year.

White tried for drinking and driving

missed charges of failing to stop or yield while
entering a highway and refusing to take a

BY JEI3 BROOKS
EDITOR IN CHIEF

BY KATHERINE HENDERSON
STAFF REPORTER

IFC Vice president resigns

where they were not invited back, forcing the
IFC to send out emails retracting some rush in
vitations. 7

Kevin White, former Executive Committee Vice-
President, was tried before the Rockbridge County-
Lexington City General District Court on December
16, 2004.

He appeared as a consequence of several
charges filed against him after his drinking and driv-
ing accident of Saturday, October 4, 2003. White
will also appear before Washington and Lee’s Stu-
dent Judicial "Board later this week.

White was found guilty of driving while in-
toxicated. He will be permitted to drive only to and
from school or work until December 15, 2004. This
is a one-year suspension with a restriction.

White will also be required to attend VASAP

S (Virginia Alcohol Safety Awareness Program), a 20-

hour program aimed at educating offenders about
the dangers of substance abuse and driving under
the inﬂuence of alcohol and drugs. The court dis-

breathalyzer test.

White’s case will appear before the Student
Judicial Council (SJC) on Wednesday.

According to the Washington and Lee
website, the Board of Trustees believes that in
DWI cases, “the appropriate sanction first to be
considered by the SJ C is suspension from the Uni-
versity.”

The policy goes on to state that circum-
stances such as the nature of the offence, court
imposed rehabilitation and participation in alco-
hol education programs, among others, should
play into the SJC’s conclusion.

White will have the opportunity to appeal the
decision of the SJC to the University Board of
Appeals.

Because he is a law student, the Dean of the
Law School will replace the slot usually filled by
the Dean of Students on the UBA.

Interfratemity Council Vice President Rich-
ard Lewis resigned from his position just before
rush, the most important time of the year for the
Council. 1

Before leaving for Winter break on Decem-
ber 18"‘, Lewis handed in his resignation to the
IFC, in which he stated that he “no longer [has]
the time or the capacity to serve” as IFC Vice
President.

Consequently, the past week was an espe-
cially difficult time as the IFC strived to make
sure the rush process ran smoothly.

While changing rush dates as the week
progresses is not uncommon, IFC'President
Brian Castleberry said that Lewis’s resignation
contributed to the increased number of prob-
lems with rush this year. Some freshmen, for
instance. were placed on fraternity rush lists

Castleberry also noted that the fact that the
Board had to complete the work Lewis did for
rush led to “awkward situations.”

Lewis served on the IFC for two years. He
said, “I put in a lot of hours and hopefully did
some good as a service to the school,” but
would not make additional comments as to the
reasons for his resignation.

Lewis said that he was not forced to resign
from his position. All work of the former Vice
President was turned over to the IFC president
and the IFC advisor.

According to Castleberry, there will be an
election held to replace Lewis at a time to be
determined

Whoever is elected will serve the remain-
der of Lewis’s remaining term, which will run
until approximately Spring Term.

 

,§A§‘,tl{i'£2 B. l.!i¥§siﬁf3}~$ l_.';atz§-§.»~'-:~T'r

   

\vA9r»§st~:éaez':.:¢ a  :1 re-érW8tlY

 

 

    

    

 

,_ ,, .;-: ‘.'7"«, 
PACa?r3 3 5 «’-Wt’ MONDAY, JANUARY 12, 2004 >
   ‘° Students leave messes ersonal belon in s
I p g g ‘
I
In Co-op and create more work for employees
' )
§Former Washington and Lee Presrdent
to speak about honor Fnday In Lee Chapel '
Robert E. R. Huntley, a former president of Washington
i"and Lee University who went on to serve as counsel in the
}Richmond office of Hunton & Williams, will be the keynote 1
;speaker at Washington and Lee’s Founders’ Day events on
}‘Friday, Jan. 16, at 11:30 a.m. in Lee Chapel. Huntley’s speech
is entitled “Oasis of Honor” and will be free and open to the
§_public. }
 This speech will launch this year’s Institute.for Honor
gsymposium concerning “Reform of Corporate Governance:
?.;Lessons of the Honor System.” Approximately 100 students,
faculty and alumni are expected to participate in the two—day
(series of discussions. p
 Founder’s Day is held inphonor of George Washington,
;the first benefactor and President Robert E. Lee, who launched
ithe business and journalism professional programs.
 29 undergraduates and law students will be inducted into ‘
;{Omicron Delta Kappa, a national leadership honor society that '
::was founded at Washington and Lee in 1914.
 Seniors to be inducted are Brian Shelton Castleberry,
_:f.Kevin Joseph Coppersmith II, Jeremy Scott Franklin, Kara Jean
’fHarbert, Erin Renee Johnson, Austin Injae Kim, Stephen Chad ’
;'-Meredith, Margaret Brooks Morgan, Karelle Ann—Yakini A
:‘j5Samuda, William Ansel Sanders, Elizabeth Maury Stegall, THERING-TUMPHI
igaliliel Douglas V03’ James Matthew Watson’ Sarah Jane Messy, messy. Students have been leavirigtrash fromthe foodaridpersonal belongings strewn about the Co-op.
; a ots. A . ,
i_ Juniors to be inducted are Richard Matthew Busby Jr.,- BY ERIN JULIUS “People leave trash and customer’s discourtesy keeps “they’re not cleaning up their 3
;:Lindsay Day Hagerman, Robyn Jennifer Konkel, Elizabeth Kyle NEWS EDITOR newspapers and old papers from J them at work long after the Co- trash on the tables and they’re
f‘~Meehan, Samuel Noble Roberts Stafford, Julia Ferrara Waity. class,” said Annie Iadarola, “the op has closed. “Students work not cleaning up their cigarettes
 Law students to be inducted are Bridget Alison Blinn, Trash, cigarette butts and biggest problem is that people here and we have as much work outside...then we have to go
i§Heyward Harles Bouknight, Brooke Michelle Corby, Marc An— people’s personal belongings think someone should be clean— as they do, we want to get out of sweep up everywhere,” he said. ‘
drew Granger, Kristen Frances Grunewald, Brian Lee Hager, strewn everywhere have created ing up after them and people are here at the end of the night, not “Be more considerate. We
-Angela Rae Hepler, Laurie P. Kelleher, Maxwell Christopher anunpleasant environmentinthe, also careless with personal be— stay and clean up their mess,” are not their momma and we
Smith. Café Emporium,orCo—op. 1ongings,” she said. said Awkward. don’t clean up after them,” said
, t, , p , Students are also causing Due to Washington and “It makes us stay here, we Tornlinson.
Traveller extends ma, peﬂod for dISpalChed dnVerS confusion when placing orders. Lee’s Honor System, students have to go out there and clean According to Iadarola, no I
“Don’t place an order and then feel free to leave their belongings up everyone else’s trash. We workers are assigned to clean up
Traveller has extended the periodinwhich it will dispatch dirvers. walk to the other end of the build- out in the open. “People just don’t get out of here til 12:30, 1 the eating area, so customers
' By calling Traveller at 458-8900, a student can request a driver to be ing,” said Co-op worker Henry leave their books lying all over am.,” said worker Loryn that leave amess create more work
"dispatched to his or her location. Howard. Leaving the Co-op after the place. It’s really inconsider— Tomlinson. for all the servers. “When you’re
’ This policy extends to seven nights a week. placinganorder causes lines, con— ate when you leave for three The Co-op workers request done and leaving the table, throw '
The Traveller vans will be running on their routes on Wednes— fusion and wasted food. It wastes hours and leave your books sit— that students do a better job of away cups and plates and pick
’ day, Friday and Saturday nights. the servers’ time when they have‘ ting there,” said Calvin Awkward. cleaning up after themselves. up after yourself. ..it’s not
f This is an extension of Traveller’s trial period that was instituted to wait for customers to re—enter Acommon complaint from those “Ash trays are there for a anyone’s job to throw away
at the end of “Winter Term. the Co-op to claim their food. who work in the Co-op -is that purpose,” said Awkward, trash,” she said. it
Pr 'd tB ' h tl ed
  Y   .
chair elect of American Cancer Society
BY KATHERINE SHELL member of a committee dedicated to behavioral effects of i
STAFF WRHTER cancer and psychological studies of cancer patients. He has
; President Thomas G. Burish was named chair-elect also been a member of a committee dedicated to evaluating
of the American Cancer Society following a recent meet— the board structure of the ACS. Burish has been a member of
ing in Atlanta. The post of chair-elect is a precursor to the Board since 1991. ‘
the post of chairman of the American President Burish’s activities are not ex-
Cancer Society, a position which he pected to interfere with his duties as President
‘ will assume next fall and hold for one of Washington and Lee; he has been a board
year. member for over ten years. ...
~ V V I7 ‘ IV A President Burish and other board Instead, his role as chairman of the Ameri-
7 .  ,   V . ‘V  members will be responsible for the can Cancer Society will send a positive mes-
_ . -  5 if  organization’s budget, direction, and sage to members of the W&L community, stress-
. A   (ﬁe Dikﬁt Q , Eb: ’ oyerall vision but will not be respon— ing the. importance of ‘serving and volunteering
WWW __     9 ‘.m_,Y,,§«\m sible for the American Cancer for national.organi.zat_ions dedicated to 1mprov— I
mwsatm? . A   ._ Society’s day to day organization ing the quality of life in America.
8:00 p. .Wednesday, January 14th and 0peram,ns_
Commons Theater Burish has been a volunteer for the ACS for over For more information on the American Cancer Society
twenty years, and has participated in various commit- and ways to be involved, please visit the ACS’s website:
Sponsored by W&L Hillcl tees of the American Cancer Society, including being a www.cancer.org. ‘
D
, 8
&
Don’ t  
Seats five, has 53 arrest:
1

feet of cargo space, and 112126
*‘t“tt‘*t‘”t‘t‘“   your ~  
and 3 ﬁ-speed iaaizxiat
shin. Evan evolution pledges...

     
  

I
can’! 'fiE§§§' axeiaia it. too
“I
 "£63-"s°t;§I$‘.s #019,’?  3.33%. .lt€¥.‘.. Eﬂligi {$114. 11
E30 Fiﬁ F%;ts’;33~E  . ‘E ‘ .  Eté-€.‘~§.t}i»3‘t7;$ 
' .7  are ’ litéfztli EE5 Eﬁittiiiﬁﬁ F59;
t.:2£E%i$E. t'3~¥':'s§3l*-3$.r§tié§ seems it’ amaze ’
 #333; iﬁiztlﬁli F? ‘E 1%?! east ‘
V

 

 

   

CtlEYAM)E{‘{l\l
OnNroNsEDrroA
mm m

MONDAY, JANUARY 12,2004

'1 ‘ IRi.\J<I-'3l,lvii’Hl ‘
iAH: 1 )lTORlAL
Make Rush Week safer

Fraternities are not always the safest
places. Recent events have shown Greeks
to, at times, be unaware of the conse-
quences of their actions. The administra-
tion has allowed students at Washington
and Lee a great deal of autonomy in self-
governance. Despite ourrecent shortfalls,
there appears to be no risk to that free-
dom Organizations like the Interﬁatemity
Council have shown themselves to be able
to handle complex issues very well, we
hope they will continue to do so.

Most fraternities attract excellent

, pledge classes year after year without re-
sortingtothe juvenile tactics usedby some
Greek organizations. The few fraternities
that do, whether out of desperation or
sheer stupidity, cast a pall on all their fel-
low Greeks. They must take their respon-
sibility to the University, the fraternity sys-
tem, and most importantly to the fresh-
men whom they are rushing, a bit more
seriously.

Theﬁrstpriority of the University corri-

‘ munity mustbe safety. Take, for example,
the safe-haven policy. Ifa student goes to
the infirmary or the hospital, he
is totally protected from any judicial ac-
tion. Thoughthis rule is, attimes, ﬁust1at-
ing, it makes sense. There should be no
fear involved with seeking professional
medical attentionin atirne of need

Because of this safety net, it is im-
portant for us to realize that we have to
stand up and take care of each other. If
we see a fellow Washington and Lee stu-
dentinneed, itis ourduty as amemberof
this community to see to it that he or she
is taken care of .

Washington and Lee students: in the
future, we ask you to look out for each
other. We beg you to consider the very
serious consequences for all your actions.

   

te of the Week

“...during the 60’s, only about half of
Berkeley’s student body were official
members of the on-campus Student

Communist Organization.”

~Anonymous letter to the editor to the
Daily Californian, UC Be1l<eley’s
campus newspaper.

it

Editor in chief Jeb Brooks
Assistant Editor Kyle Wass
News Editor Erin Julius
Opinions Editor Caley Anderson
Asst. Opinions Editor Anne Finley
Arts & Life Editor Megan Morgan
Photography Editor Cody Gabbard
Asst. Sports Editors John Hyland

Chad Kiewiet de Jonge
Hilary Henry
Emily Edwards
Kelly Jo Larsen
Anne Iadarola
Katie Howell

 

Production Assistants

Copy Editor
Editorial Director

Business Manager
Circulation Director
Distribution Dir.

Paul Seifert
Henry Grimball
Thomas Worthy

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during
the undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee
University, Lexington,’ Virginia. The Washington and
Lee Publications Board elects the Editor in chief, but
The Ring-tum Phi is otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible sub-
missions and letters. All submissions must be e-mailed
to phi@wlu.edu or in the University Center mailbox by
5 p.m. Friday to appear in the following week’s edition.
The Ring-tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions
for content and length. Letters and columns do not
necessarily reﬂect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi
Editorial Board. Advertising does not reﬂect the opin-
ions of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper
observes current court deﬁnitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
University Commons Rm. 341
Washington and Lee University

Lexington, l/rrginia 24450

Telephone: (540) 458-4060
Fax: (540) 458-4059
Email: phi @wlu.edu

 

PAGE 3

GOP’s new medicare bill is bad medicine

PHOTO OOURTBY OF

A MISTAKE? President Bush signed the 2003 Medicare Bill into law very late last year; critics of the new law believe that it will make prescription drugs far less affordable.

I had an enlightening realization this
past Thanksgiving day. While sitting
around the kitchen table with my family, the
topic of Congress’ new Medicare bill came
up. I expected my grandparents to be sup-
portive of the measure, considering this
Medicare bill is for the senior citizens, right?

Well, sort of. Without getting into too
much technical mumbo jumbo
about the stipulations of the
bill, the fact of the matter is that
this revision to our Medicare
system hurts more people than
it helps. [ K _

Consequently, people of all ages are
complaining about it. My grandparents dis-
like the new Medicare provisions because
they are part of a group of senior citizens
who will have higher premiums and
deductibles as a result of the new bill. My
parents dislike the new bill because they will
be shouldering the cost of this 400 billion
dollar disaster through higher taxes. I dis-
like the bill because I will be a working class
taxpayer when the baby boomers, all 78 mil-
lion of them, turn 65 and qualify for Medi-
care.

So where exactly is the support for this
bill coming from? Well, the most important
and inﬂuential supporter is the AARP. Rep-
resenting over 35 million senior citizens na-
tionwide, this group has a strong influence
over politics in Washington.

When the AARP launched a 7 million
dollar advertising blitz supporting the bill,
certain politicians collapsed and capitulated
under the pressure to vote for it.

While the AARP’s intention to help se-
nior citizens seems righteous, they stand to

 
 

WWSLICE ON LIFE

profit very much from the new Medicare bill.
7 Over 60 percent of AARP revenues
come from insurance premiums, indicating
that they will benefit financially from the
passage of this bill. Therein we see the reason
for the AARP’s strong support.

The majority of Republican congress-
men support this bill because it brings a
temporary end to Demo-
cratic criticism that Repub-
licans insufficiently ad-
dress domestic social is-
sues.

Also, a stipulation in this bill invites pri-

‘vate firms to sell insurance coverage to 40

million Medicare beneficiaries, something
that Republicans have been trying to ac-

‘ complish for a long time.

While Democrats condemn Republicans
for trying to privatize Medicare, this fea-
ture of the bill is overshadowed by the pre-
scription drugs stipulation, which has been
receiving the majority of attention lately in
the media. President Bush,who has been very
outspoken in his support of this bill before signing
it into law last month, does so because it in-
creases his chances of winning the 2004
Presidential election. How’s that?

When President Bush is on the campaign
trail next year, Democrats will,because ofthis
new law, have a difficult time attacking him
for neglecting domestic social issues. As
soon as the President hears criticism on the
matter, his advisors will be quick to point
out that he staunchly supported the Medi-
care bill of 2003, which is important even ifthe
bill hurts more than it helps.

A very few Democrats support this bill
because they say that any Medicare pack-

age partially covering prescription drugs is
better than no package at all. I strongly dis-
agree with their logic.

An official financial forecast by Congress’
budget experts predicts a steady increase
in insurance premiums and deductibles, as
well as a widening of the coverage gap. This
new bill requires senior citizens to pay a 35
dollar monthly premium as well as a 250 dol-
lar annual deductible. Their money will be
going toward Medicare, which will cover 75
percent of prescription drug costs up to
2,250 dollars, and 95 percent of costs over
5,100 dollars. .

However, for senior citizens paying be-
tween 2,250 and 5,100 dollars a year on pre-
scription drugs, there is no coverage at all.
Congress’ budget experts estimate that by
2013, the monthly premium will be 58 dollars
and the deductible will be 445 dollars. On
top of that, the coverage gap is estimated
to be between 4,000 and 9,066 dollars, mean-
ing senior citizens would have to pay all
costs for prescription drugs in between
those two amounts.

The drawbacks of the new Medicare bill
heavily outweigh the benefits. People of all
ages, especially non-senior citizens, will
suffer financially from having to fund the
new Medicare system.

Instead of hastily passing a half—decent
bill, Congress should have taken their time
in constructing a Medicare system that
doesn’t have such a predictable downside.
The passing of the new Medicare bill is very
unfortunate, because we will all be shoul-
dering thelfinancial burden of this system
in the future, and it is unclear whether or not
we’ll be able to do that.

Bush’s immigration proposal enlightened

I have had many reserva-
tions against Bush’s presidential
abilities and policies, but I can-
not help but smile at his recent
immigration proposal. Bush’s
plan would give undocumented
immigrants amnesty and allow
them to legally live and work in
America for a period of time, af-
ter which they would be encour-
aged to return home to their
countries.

However, they must compete
with other incoming immigrants
for jobs that are already scarce.

As a refugee from Vietnam, I
was once an immigrant in this
country (but I was documented
and legally here). I can under-
stand the simple dream that
many of these immigrants have
of making a better life for them-
selves and their families. Before
coming to America, my father
and I were illegal immigrants in
Cambodia, and it was a chal-
lenge to live in a place where any
knowledge of our presence
would mean imprisonment if not
death.

When we were accepted into

the United States, it was per-
haps one of the happiest days
of our lives.
Many of you who are reading
this article have not experienced
life anywhere outside of the
United States and do not know
how fortunate
you are to have
been born here. 
Many of the ‘
people who im-
migrate to this country left their
homelands because there was
no possibility of creating any
kind of decent life there and
came in search of a better way.

Every human being who is
born into this world should
have the opportunity to live a
good life free fromthe evils of sup-
pression and hardship, but un-
fortunately for many people,
that possibility does not exist.

However, that opportunity
does exist in America, regard-
less of what problems America
has. If you have a dream and
the desire, you can find a bet-
ter life here.

That is why Bush’s plan is

 

so important and necessary.
America has so much to offer,
and as the wealthiest nation, it
would be a moral sin for us to
deny other people the chance to
succeed at making a better life
for themselves.

Opponents of
the proposal say
that it rewards il-
legal behavior,
and indeed it
does.

However, the previous immi-
gration policy of firmness was
morally wrong, and the_“illegal”
behavior that resulted from it is
but a courageous act of disobe-
dience against an unjust regula-
tion.

Other opponents argue that
inundating America with immi-
grants would increase the com-

‘ petition for jobs for Americans,

thereby making it harder for
Americans to find a job.
However, the jobs that most
of the immigrants take are often
labor and low-wage jobs that
most Americans do not want.
Many of the arguments made

against imposing more relaxed
immigration policies stem from
fear of the final result, but we
need to put these fears aside
and take a chance. After all, if
the wealthiest nation can’t take

‘a chance, then who can?

Regardless of the chal-
lenges the immigration policy
may pose, Americans need to
remember that we have social
responsibilities as the wealthi-
est nation in the world,'and that
means sharing our wealth and
vast opportunities to those less
fortunate. To not do so would
make us selfish and foolish as
a nation. We built this nation
on the labor and energy of im-
migrants, and without immi-
grants, this nation would be
nonexistent. Closing our bor-
ders to immigrants would de-
prive us of a group of people
that have much to offer so-
cially, culturally, and economi-
cally. Just like at a party where
the more people you have, the
merrier the party is, the more
people you have in America, the
merrier we’ll be as a nation.

 

    

PAGE 4

I 

INIONS

MONDAY, IANUARY 12,2004

Many U.S. citizens today can’t distinguish between jingoism; patriotism

It’s a common sight these
days, but one that disturbed
me nonetheless- a car with a
bumper sticker saying “sup-
port the troops.” It disturbed
me not because I’m against
supporting the troops; far
from it. It’s dis-
turbing because
I honestly
doubt that the
occupant of the
car did anything ,
to support the troops besides
a friendly bumper sticker.
Many‘ Americans would tell
you that they “support the
troops,” but the number of
them that have actually done
something meaningful for our
fighting men and women
would undoubtedly be much
lower.

It is aproblem symptom-
atic of a larger illness present
in the United States. It’s

MODERATE’SMUSlNGS
CALEY ANDERSON ‘O6

9

called “jingoism,’ a word I
define as empty nation—state
fervor; supporting your
country merely because it’s
your country, and for no other
real reason. In the United
States, at least, there is a
marked dif-
ference be-
tween it and
“ p a t r i o -
tism,” one
that has be-
come more noticeable since
September 11th. You remem-
ber it, don’t you? After that
terrible day, you could hardly
find ahouse-without a ﬂag
ﬂying, and you couldn’t go a
block without seeing the
phrase “Never forget.” There
is, of course, nothing wrong
with this. What’s wrong is
that American citizens have,
for the most part, forgotten
why they ﬂy a ﬂag and why

they love their country. The
problem is that being an Ameri-
can patriot requires more than
mere ﬂag-waving and cries of
generic support.

Americans have forgotten
that America is more than a
mere country; it is an idea.
They have forgotten that be-

. ing an American patriot re-

quires an inquisitive and criti-
cal mind, active participation,
expression of meaningful, self-
formed opinion, a fierce inde-
pendent streak, and a whole-
hearted love of liberty. Many
Americans express a general
idea that they are in favor of
“liberty,” but rarely do you hear
one of our countrymen who re-
ally understands and embraces
the philosophical basis of lib-
erty that our Founding Fathers
so cherished and upheld.
American patriotism today
has devolved from support of

the American Democratic
Ideal to support of the United
States of America, the coun-
try that was founded on that
ideal. Our patriotism has be-
come hollow, our ﬂag-waving
is nothing but empty symbol-
ism. Our patriotism is no dif-
ferent from that of any other
country; all we’re celebrating
is the fact that this country is
our country. This is some-
thing to be proud of, to be
sure, but not unless you un-
derstand what makes America

so different from other coun- j

tries.

Let us all be reminded
that America is deserving of
our celebration and support,
not simply because we hap-
pen to be Americans, but be-
cause America is an idea, one
that has given us freedom, op-
portunity, and for most of us,
good fortune. It is not our

government, nor our political
parties, nor even our military,
that is alone responsible for
this fact. It is the higher con-
cepts that we should be
thankful for, the ideals embod-
ied in the Constitution and
the Declaration of Indepen-
dence, that have guided our
government, political parties,
and military through our cen-
turies of existence. Anyone
can be an American patriot,
even someone who’s not
American by birth, simply by
virtue of this concept. Let us
be reminded that we are
Americans before we are Re-
publicans or Democrats, be-
fore we are rich or poor, and
before we consider any other
distinction. Let us be re-
minded that being an Ameri-
can patriot means more than
empty symbolism and mean-
ingless words of support; it

means thinking for oneself,
and it means action.

As to my complaint at the
start of this story, let me say
this: whether you support the
way in Iraq or not, there are
courageous men and women
out there who are fighting on
our behalf who deserve our
praise and support. Let me
give you a website URL: http:/
/wwwsupportyourtroops.us/
links.cfm. This will direct you
to any number of sites where
you can really show your
support for the troops. Me, I
donated cash to a National
Guard unit that was being for-
ward deployed to Iraq with-
out body armor. My $40, pal-
try as it may be, will at least
help some guy on the front
who is fighting on my behalf
to feel a little safer. I think
that’s worth more than any
bumper sticker.

Letters to the Editor

Sweatshops piece excellent

Dear Editor,

Finally, there is something worth reading in
the Ring-tum Phi. The article on Sweatshops, pro
and con, was a piece that expanded awareness.
Everyone is against sweatshops, right? The de-
bate format brought out the complexities that turn
it into one of the grey areas of life, and what a great
way to tap some of the knowledge of our intema-
tional students.

—Linda Davis, Physics/Engineering Secretary

File sharing ethical

DearEditor,

I would like to express my thoughts on the
issue of file sharing, an issue which is hotly de-
bated across the country and which has been de-
bated in papers on this very campus.

Many arguments against file sharing are based
on the idea that downloading free music is “steal-
ing” in the same way as shoplifting. Yet this idea
assumes that music (i.e. information) is no different
than traditional goods like food and clothing. This
assumption is invalid because information is not
subject to the scarcity that governs other goods.
Not only is information not scarce, and therefore
not subject to opportunity cost, but it is indeed
multiplicative in nature. Once information is passed
to an individual, s/he can pass this on to others,
who in turn pass it on, and we see the exponential
dispersion of information. As any first-year stu-

dent of economics learns, scarcity is necessary for
the determination of value in an economy—noth-
ing has intrinsic worth. -How, then, can one “steal”
something when its worth is not even well-defmed?

Another common argument is that file sharing
takes money away from those who work hard to
produce the music. Again, this argument rests upon
the assumption that music has intrinsic value. It
does not. Consumers do not purchase the labor of
sound technicians and producers—they produce
the information. Everything and everyone respon-
sible for making the final product need to be viewed
as costs of production. Since we are talking about
people’s time and real money spent on recording
equipment, these costs are real. Yet the value of
the product remains unchanged (i.e. undeﬁned),
and, thus, input costs are indeﬁnitely greater than
the market price——bad news for the recording in-
dustry.

Many will ask: what about other types of in-
formation—books, newspapers, and magazines?
Like all forms of information, these products are
subject to the above exceptions. The difference is
that media producers have created artiﬁcial scar-
city by distributing these forms of information on
paper. I use the term “artiﬁcial” because they claim
to be selling information, but in reality people buy
these goods because they do not have access to
expensive printers and glossy paper. As we see
the same information ﬁnding its way onto the

Internet, this inconvenience fades away, and people
look online for news just as they go online to down-
load music. The same is true of the music business:
before CD recorders and ﬁle sharing networks,
people were forced to pay for information because
they lacked access to distribution. VV1thout such
constructed impediments to the dispersion of in-
formation, the market falls apart for reasons stated
above.

Stepping away from music for a moment, can’t
we really sense the absurdity in the idea of tweak-
ing proﬁts from the spread of information? Should
Einstein’s estate receive royalties every time a physi-
cist publishes a paper using the equation E = mcz?
Should we pay Shakespeare’s distant relatives ‘ev-
ery time we quote a sonnet? It would be impossible
to track the number of times these ideas are used
every single day. The beauty of information is pre-
cisely the way in which it freely expands, educating
the masses and providing a greater sense of per-
sonal freedom. To construct artiﬁcial barriers to
inhibit this natural process is tyrannical and should
not be masked under the false claim to moral right.
-Sincerely, Joel Pepera, ‘O4

Payne Hall renovation coverup?

DearEditor,

The purpose of this letter is merely to think aloud,
and to encourage others to do so. I write concerning
the giant red wall on the back of the colonnade. Ast

both a townie and student with my ear to the street, I
have gathered the following information. This back
part of Payne Hall, formerly the Deans suite, is being
renovated into an executive dining room for the higher
ups. I understand that it is the result of a conditional
gift by a benefactor who earmarked the funds for this
purpose. There are several points I take issue with.

Why has the dining room been plarmed for the
colonnade, when there is such a scarcity of class-
room space? I am in a class right now that was origi-
nally scheduled for the same classroom as TWO other
simultaneous classes. There are students and instruc-
tors forced into the bowels of Leybum library. One
semester, 3/4 of my classes were located in the same
building as the dining hall. On that note, what is wrong
with old Letitia Pate Evans as a respectable location
for the new dining room? In moving the Deans to the
commons, we freedup valuable space for faculty of-
ﬁces and classrooms, and then immediately took it
away again.

The other thing that confuses me is the very
presence of the camouﬂaged, totally enclosed wall in
back of Payne. What is its purpose other than to
deceive and inveigle? The University has always
been quick to tout planned and underway COnSlI1lC-
tion projects, but someone is being quite secretive
about this one, perhaps to avoid what students and
faculty alike might have to say about it if it were
brought to light.

-Sincerely, Timothy Litzenburg, ‘O4

   

  Retail

 

 "*3$;.->.<s-»~,;ez=:- .=3r_«z&3 l>('s4>'«.<_<¢.:



 selction.

How‘ smart: is this: All the Eextéhenka. you
need for up to 50% off ravtaiét prices. New at
used. ail: you have to do  an to hatt..eam
and type in the l}€3()k’i§t3&$., at 388% numbers...
Then Eat nature take its caurse.

 

rd; 8993 /.'~‘? awe

 
 
 

 

Same texitébntﬁts.
-Smarter prices.

‘-,‘-'1/_.<.;‘<-e.'v.+.=a.:c:,»2 $16342: 535.5%
1:! r,‘_2.za2s‘?n9‘:’£$*ss;? éiizéﬁ 

 

JOHNHYIAND
AsisrANrSroRrsE1)r1oR

FMAI:HYlAN[)@WlJJE)U

MONDAY, JANUARY 12,2004

S

K?  G-Rns.rPi§

Generals continue to slide on losing streak

JOHN HYLAND
ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITOR

The W&L men’s basketball team lost three
conference contests last week and are now in the
midst of a six game losing streak, dropping their
record to 2-9, 1-4 ODAC.

Last Saturday the Generals were overmatched
against Randolph-Macon, ranked ninth in the na-
tion. W&L kept it close for most of the game, down
nine at halftime and closing the six points to make it
45-39 with just over ten minutes remaining in the
game. The Generals would never get closer as the
Yellow Jacket cruised to a 75-56 victory to remain
undefeated and atop the ODAC standings. For the
game, the Generals were outrebounded 38-29 and
shot 40% from the ﬁeld comparee to Randolph-
Macon’ s sharp shooting 55%. Individually, W&L
was led by freshman forward Coleman Lyons who
contributed 12 points, while sophmore guard Ryan
Flynn added 8 points and 5 rebounds.

The Generals would not get a break, having to

turn around and face another elite ODAC oppo-
nent in Virginia Wesleyan who stands atop the
standings undefeated with Randolph Macon. Once
again, the Generals stayed within striking distance
of a superior opponent for most of the game, down
32-22 at halftime and later cutting the lead to ﬁve
points with just under nine minutes to play at 46-
41. The Marlins overmatched the Generals from
there, closing the game on a 12-4 run to seal the 58-
45 victory. Virginia Wesleyan held a slight 33-30
advantage in rebounds but won the game by
commiting only 8 turnovers to W&L’ s 15, shoot-
ing 44% forrn the ﬁeld to W&L’s 36% and shooting
twice as many free throws. Lyon’s 12 points once
again led the Generals. Flynn and sophomore for-
ward David Will contributed 9 points apiece.
After a difficult weekend, holidng strong
against two quality opponents the Generals seemed
poised to end their losing slide. Aftrer almost a
week off, they traveled to Roanoke on Saturday
evening , opening up a 12-4 lead to start the game.
The run seemed to have gassed the Generals. and

as Roanoke responded with a 20-4 run of their own.
W&L cut the deﬁcit to within four points with just
under 8 minutes remaining in the half but would
never get any closer as the Maroons cruised to
victory. They took a 42-25 lead into halftime and
extended the lead in the second half to earn an 86-
63 victory. The win improved Roanoke’s record to
8-3, 2-2 ODAC. W&L once again struggled with
their ﬁeld goal defense, as the Maroons shot lights
out for most of the game, 52% overall from the ﬁeld

and 46% from behind the three. point ‘are ;’l'”he Gen-

erals shot just 38% from the ﬁeld and 26% from
behind the arc. Freshman guard Chris Halkitis scored
a career high 16 points to lead the Generals, while
Will added a solid 12 points 10 rebound perfor-
mance. .

The Generals hope to turn the tide this week
as their schedule eases up. They face Eastern Men-
nonite at home on Wednesday night before travel-
ling to Lynchburg on Saturday. Both teams sit at

i the bottom of the ODAC standings.

COURTESY SPORTS INRDRMATION
SHOOT. Sophomore Phil Landes goes for a shot.

Womens basketball carries day, victorious

Kim Gunst
ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITOR

After three tough losses, the women’s basketball team had a
weH-earned victory Saturday afternoon in their gaagainst Virginia

Wesleyan, 69-56.

Despite the General’s losses last week against Randolph Macon
(82-68), EMU (68-65), and Roanoke (67-65), the team remains extremely
conﬁdent. “We are currently 5-6, but four of our losses have been by
less than three points,” junior captain Bethany Darmelly said.

“I think that everyone is very optimistic about the rest of our games.
This season is very exciting because it is one of the first times that
other teams are realizing our potential.”

The team’s positive attitude finally paid off in Saturday’s game
as the Generals proved they are no longer an underdog.
forward Sarah Michaels tied her season-high with a game-high 28
points and was also second on the team with eight rebounds.
Sophomore guard Louis Feve considers the win a much-needed “con—
ﬁdence boost.” The team’s close losses left them feeling that some-

COURTESY Si>oRrs lNK)RMA'l‘ION
28 POINTS. Senior Forward Sarah Michaels tied her season high point
total  the team’s victory over Virginia \Wesleyan.

thing mental was simply not happening, Feve said.
' But the Generals pulled it together when they stole the lead

shortly before halftime, upholding it until the end. Freshman

forward Jessica Hunsinger recorded her ﬁfth double-double of

bounds.

the season after combining 15 points with a game-high 15 re-

Feve and Darmelly also helped lead W&L to a victory. Feve
smoothed out the Generals’ "double-digit scorers with 14 points while

teammate Darmelly also had a season- and garne—high seven assists.

Senior

been having.”

Swim teams compete against Randolph-Macon 1 . .

STAFF REPORTS

The men’s and women’s swim teams both com-
peted in a meet against Randolph-Macon on the
road this weekend. The men dominated the Yellow
Jackets, winning 154.5-79.5. Randolph-Macon de-
feated the women 145-1 17.

Helping the men in their win was senior Eric
Ritter, who placed first in the 100 breaststroke, the
50 freestyle, and the 500 freestyle. He ﬁnished with
times of 1:05.67, 22.32, and 5209.48, respectively.
Junior Chris Colby won the 200 butterﬂy with a
time of 2:02.28, setting a new pool record. He also
placed first in the 100 butterﬂy, ﬁnishing at 54.37.
In the 200 freestyle, sophomore Reed Evans ﬁn-

ished with a winning time of 1:55.06. Freshmen
Michael Ginder and Kevin Hayes placed first in the
100 backstroke with a time 57.76 and first in the 200
breaststroke with a time of 2:26.14, respectively.
In the women’s competition, freshman S-arah
Bloom won the 500 freestyle, coming in at 5:45.49.
Both the men’s and'women’s teams also com-
peted January 3rd at the Florida Atlantic Invita-
tional. The men placed ﬁfth of six teams, and the
women ﬁnished sixth of six teams.
Placing ahead of the men’s team were_ James Madi-
son with 509 points, Pennsylvania with 462, Florida
Atlantic with 425 points, and Davidson with 267.
The Generals ﬁnished with 178 points, followed by
Transylvania with 77 points.
Leading the men was Ritter with pa ﬁfth place ﬁnish

in the 100 freestyle. He clocked in at 49.49. Colby
contributed to the score with a time of 54.70 in the
100 butterﬂy, placing him at sixth in that race.

In the women’s competition, Florida Atlantic
won with 522 points. Coming in behind Florida
Atlantic was Pennsylvania with 467 points,
Davidson with 381.5 points, Florida International
266.5 points, Transylvania with 167 points, and
Washington and Lee with 103 points.

Sophomore Kristine Holda led the women with i

a 10th place time of 57.44 in the 100 freestyle.

The men’s team now has a record of 5-0. They
compete again on January 25 at Gettysburg. The
women’s record is 6-3, 3-1 in the ODAC. They will
also travel to Gettysburg on the 25th for their next
meet.

One-hundred twenty-two W&L students earn scholar-athlete awards

W&L SPORTS RELEASE

LEXINGTON, Va. —-— Washington and Lee Di-
rector of Athletics Mike Walsh has armounced that
122 students earned Scholar-Athlete awards dur-
ing the recently completed fall term. The students
are all members of W&L athletic teams and achieved
a grade-point average (GPA) of at least 3.500.

Additionally, 13 of the students honored
achieved grade-point averages of 4.0 or higher (an
A+ is worth 4.330 at W&L). Among the students
achieving 4.0 or higher GPA’s were senior cross
country runner Vanessa Adams (Albuquerque,
N.M./Albuquerque Academy), sophomore men’s
tennis player Charles Anderson (Brentwood, Tenn./
Montgomery Bell), freshman women’s soccer player
Emily Binns (Midlothian, Va./Midlothian), junior
ﬁeld hockey and women’s lacrosse player Kristen
Brown (Baltimore, Md./Catonsville), junior All-
ODAC cross country and track athlete Steven
Chambers (Christiana, Pa./Octorara Area), senior
Academic All-America women’s soccer player

Tuesday, january 13

Wednesday, January 14

Heather Coleman (Blackwood, N .J ./Triton Re-
gional), seniorA1l-ODAC men’s lacrosse player Matt
Fink (Wilmington, Del/Tatnall), freshman men’s la-
crosse player Jason Fitzsimmons (Bridgewater, N .J ./
Bridgewater-Raritan), sophomore ﬁeld hockey
player Courtney Harrison (Richmond, Va./Colle-
giate), senior men’s tennis player Seth Martin (Bryn
Mawr, Pa./Radnor), sophomore women’s tennis
player Lauren Peters (Augusta, Ga./Lakeside), se-
nior All-ODAC men’s tennis player K.C. Schaefer
(Troy, Ohio/Troy) and sophomore track athlete Eliza-
beth T‘wentyman (Falls Church, VaJGeorge Mason).
Other notable athletes to receive Scholar-Athlete

, awards included senior All-ODAC and All-Region

baseball and football player Peter Dean (Vienna,
Va./James Madison), junior All-America women’s
tennis player Lindsay Hagerrnan (Dallas, Texas/
Highland Park), senior All-ODAC and All-Region
women’s soccer player Meghan Hayde
(Massapequa, N.Y./St. Anthony), senior All-ODAC
and All-Region women’s soccer player Fontaine

Thursday, January 15

Marcoux (Washington, D.C./Potomac), senior All-
America swimmer Eric Ritter (Birmingham, Ala./
Mountain Brook), senior All-America men’s la-
crosse player Ansel Sanders (White Stone, Va./
Woodberry Forest), senior ODAC Cross Country
Runner of the Year Andy Schorr (Kingwood, Texas/

. Kingwood), junior All-ODAC and All-Region vol-

leyball player Emily Wolfmg (Mt. Airy, Md./South
Carroll) and junior All-America women’s soccer
player'Kelley Zagol (Berwyn, Pa./Conestoga).
T‘wenty-two of W&L’s 23 varsity athletic pro-
grams achieved a team GPA of at least 3.000, led by

. the women’s soccer team with a 3.391. The highest

men’s team GPA was the men’s tennis team with a
3.389 and no team recorded a GPA lower than 2.870.
W&L had an outstanding fall season on the play-
ing ﬁelds as well. W&L’s nine fall sports teams
combined for a record of 70-28-7 (.700) with volley-
ball and women’s soccer both winning ODAC
Championships and advancing to NCAA Tourna-
ment.

THIS WEEK’s Scr

Friday, January 16

Several coaches from the ODAC have told the Generals
they’re the talk of the league, according to Dannelly. W&L’s
women’s basketball team is no longer considered an easy team to
play—their confidence and talent have made them much more
competitive this year.

Although the Generals’ season looks more promising than last,
Darmelly says the team is still trying to focus on the small mistakes
they make. “We have been in so many close games, so we now
recognize the importance of every possession and the potential
effects that they could have on the outcome of the game,” she said.

“I think that we are all making a much better effort to value
every possession in order to avoid these close games that we’ve

The Generals will return to ODAC action Tuesday when they
host Hollins at 7:00 p.m. I

iwrestling-com-ewe-
petes in Davidson
Quadrangular

A proud three-man wrestling team trav-
eled to Davidson, North Carolina to represent
Washington and Lee in the Davidson Qua-
drangular. Other teams competing included
Gettysburg, Davidson, and Pensacola Chris-
tian College.

The team has had a rough season because
of small numbers. “It’s been a disappointing
season. We started out with about 12 guys,
but our team has now dwindled down to only
3 wrestlers,” says freshman Maxwell Courtney.

The biggest disappointment came at the
loss of senior Mike Bennett. An injury to his
shoulder at the team’s first competition against
VMI left the Generals without their strongest
competitor. Bennett claimed an undefeated
season last year.

Because of the small team status, the boys
were not able to truly compete in the Davidson
Quadrangular and had to forfeit 8 matches.

“We are looking to focus on individual
success,” explained Courtney, the team’s sole
match-winner. “All of our matches build up to
the Centennial Conference tournament at the
end of February.”

With much anticipation, the team contin-
ues to train under Coach Gary Franke for the
final tournament. The Generals will compete
next when they host a home tournament on
January 17th.

Saturday, January 17

-DULE

Sunday, January 18

0 W Basketball vs.

Hollins--7 :00 7:00

0-M Basketball vs. EM U--

OPEN

0 W Basketball at VWC-
-7:00

0 Wrestling host W&L
Invitational--10:00

0 W Basketball at
Lynchburg--3:00

° M Basketball at
Lynchburg--5:00

0 M Basketball vs.
Hampden-Sydney

PAGE 6

 

Becky Aimen

MONDAY, JANUARY 12,2004

Lizzie Doll Sarah Murray
Brie Allen   Elizabeth Eckman Kah Ndi
Jean Angelico Caroline Finigan Amy Nunez
Anna Kelly Hishta ' Molly Potekhen
Arendshorst Laing Humphries Jessica Raatz
Sara A Jessica Hunsinger Susan Rudolph
Behmerwohld CarolAnn Irby Jen Sanders
Emily Binns Beth Iten Caroline Schierle
Maria Blackwell Meghan J oss Sonia Siu
Rachel Brooks Katie Kingsbury Sarah Strassel
Mallory Calhoun Christie Lee Kiltie Tompkins
Lisa Catullo Elyse Moody   Caitlin Walker Lieb
Emily Deutsch Lara Muller J Erin Waskom

  KappaAlpha Theta proudly
presents and welcomes
our new members for 2004!

     

Rebecca Hatchett

 

Kim Babbitt Maggie Megear
Sarah Bloom Anna Heatwole Sarah Otey
Meg Bruckmann Sarah Helms  Ke|lyPrice A
Rebecca Cohn  Ashley Hurt  Huntley Rodes

    
 

  

Natalie Days    Julie Jackson *Emily Sberna

Jamie DorseY  S Christina Leaton Karina Schless ,
_ane Earnest Lindsay Lecky Caroline Simonson '
_auren Edmonson Rachael Levine Tippins Stone =~
Amy Eliason Mallory Lobisser Anne Taylor Tipton ‘
Kelly Evans Avery Lovejoy   Niki Tsiknakis A B’
Elise Gelinas Emily Mcdowell Amy Volkman

Katie Green    Anne Wiltshire “

Mary Harris Virginia Wortham

 

MONDAY, IANUARY 12,2004

 

i”l"RT‘ISEMENTS         W
  Ti Jﬁeta Q’hi  
‘Wishes to ‘Welcome its 2004 Tlecfqe Class

. Ekanem Akpakip Wendy Kan g
Katie Camplall Victoria Kesselman
Elizabeth Cone Ellen Lide
Katherine Connolly Monica Magnuson
Justine Dargahi Bree Melton
Robin Davis Laura Pekman
Emily DeV0e Nadia Prinz
Darla Dixon Carissa Shipley
Stephanie Dodson Malinda Smith  
Emily Edwards Sarah Elizabeth
A Anne Finley Soathwonh
Anne Gleason Allison Stokan
Valerie Hannon Catherine Swan

Marika Ishikawa Erin Talllel”
Lauren  MlCh€l€ T7’l€l"0l/DC
     B’   Rebecca Vanderlinde ‘

 

 

Congratulations

to the new  
  pledge class of
  KappaDelta!!

   

‘ Adrienne Adkins Ileather Hart Lindsay Pace
Brynne Archer Kathryrl Heaberg . Cassie Pedroza
Emily Balentine   Khakl Howe A Audra Pratt

Courtney Blake L Megan Hunt Maggie Puryear

Sara Kell Bowers Cardme Kirk Abby Sauter
Kathryn Brennan A T LIZ Lane — Stephanie Shafer
Cara Burton T Alex 1:a¥m°“   Lisa Smith
Maggie Canby Beth Lldmsky Laura Anne Taylor
' Kristen Chasse Shawnay Mazeui Bebe Terrell
Rebecca Clinton Kn_Sten Mccllmg Annie Thompson
Whitney Dickson l lzabeth M1115 Megan Walker
  Amanda Haines Lane MOW“ Tricia Williams
Abby Olson  

J_,

 

A  me E

 

RTISEMENTS    M°”DAY»lAN““”’2°°4

Congratulations to the    »
  2004 Pledge Class  ~
ofKappa Kappa Gamma!!!!! ~

Beth Hunter   Mary Tipton . Megan Ward
Kaylee Hartung Thalheimer Sarah Brucker Northen ,
Bradley Arendall Julie Harris   Suzanna Humphries
Camille Allen _ Sarah Mills Katie Long   0 ,
Alexis Richardson Devon Morten Callie Ellis .
Claire Graff Amy Brown Morgan Hill   ‘
Blair Hawes Katie Garret Elizabeth Robinson
Marjie Zethraus   Laura Hornbuckle   Valerie Delaune ~  
Brynn Chandler Katherine Shell Ellen Quinlan
Sarah Dozier Jane Lancaster Hartley Merick f "
McLean Donovan Katie Weber Mary Stuart Couch
Natalie Dillree Polina Berlin Ashley Cassels
Milena Ricci Jean Rose Clawater  

  Need a rest from
everyday life? Ring-

Treat yourself to a mm
luxurious full body massage by Phi

K Harris, BA, CMT     i i
Certified Massage Therapist $3): 4 5 8 — 8 9 O O

Board of Nursing Certiﬁed
13 Years Experience

 
   

Dispatched drivers 7 nights a 0

Gift Certiﬁcates Make

 

Great Valentine’s Presents! email
‘’‘‘@“”‘“'°““ W k   d k o u
(540) 264-0063   CC COIIIC an p1C )7 11 p.
C 1
- T C
Help out Habltat om “James ompany
. _ . _ ‘Interviews? 1»
Put your change In one of the jars in Internship?
the "0.’”m0"S Special occasion?
Q . . Let us help you look and feel '
Triple Nme Society our best" r
Founded 1978 y "
Extraordinary camaraderie "-
in an Custom and Ready Made Suits
international society of peers. and Sports Coats '
99.9th percentile:
old SAT 1450, new SAT 1520, ‘ .
GRE 1460, MAT 85; Sh1I‘S»PamS’ Sh?“ and all   ________________ M _
see complete list at: aCC6SS0fl€S ,.
www.triplenine.org T  V d 0 h :
HOUSE FOR RENT Wen, Pack“ es & rave CI‘ ans I'1V€ I C 1‘ 011136  

6 Tucker Street

Available June 2004 Giﬁ‘ Certiﬁcates Availalile day’  and ' 1

3 Bedrooms/1 Bath
Living Room/Large Kitchen ContactAdamWﬂ1iarns d ' h -.
Washer/ Dryer foran appointment or    
Recently Renovated with questions
$840/ mo. .
46319180 evenings/weekends 540-815-4557 ‘

458-5001 weekdays Adam.W1Dian1s@tomjan1es1etai1.com _ ~ Trial Period extension ~

 

MONDAY,]ANUARY 12,2004  

  Junior Meeting
  Tuesday, January 13

Commons Theater 7 :00 p.m.

  Guest Speakers:

Jeﬁrey Barnett, Associate Professor Romance language/Dir: Global Stewardship
George Bent, Associate Dean of the College/R. E. Lee Summer Research Program
Scott Boylan, Associate Professor of Accounting
Stacy McLoughlin, Service Learning Coordinator; Shepherd Program

Join the Career Services staff and special guests

to learn the steps for:

* choosing majors  
* taking a career interest test  SERWCES
* exploring careers

* meeting alumni

* Writing a resume

You will receive your Career Services folder with materials to assist you in mapping your career/intemship activities

Sophomore Meeting
Thursday, January 15

    7:00 p.m. Commons Theatre

MONDAY, JANUARY 12,2004

   

Become a BonnerLeader »

Applications due to Avery Gholston on January 16, 2004
Interviews January 20 from 2:30-4:30 and January 21 from 3:30-4:30
Sign up for an interview time when you drop your application off ’

Bonner Leaders do all kinds of exciting things. ’
Sarah Weil ‘O6 judged a benefit horseshow,
Daniel Vos ‘O4 tutored Sudanese Lost Boys and , 4

Lauren ‘Partridge ‘O5 got a weave put in her ‘hair by 6 year olds.

A Bonner Leader is: .
Dedicated, Committed, Friendly... ‘

If you have any questions,
contact Avery at 458-8131 or at gho|stona@w|u.edu _ 4

The Celebrating Student Success Committee would like to recognize the following for
their outstanding contributions to Washington and Lee in the following areas:

Recreation: Ryan Dufy, ‘O4, for his services as President of the Rugby club
Publications: Paul Seifert, ‘O4, for his work as business manager of the Ring-tum Phi
Performing Arts: Caleb Dulis, ‘O4, for his dedication to \W8CL theater
Performing Arts: Brandon Waddell, ‘O4, for his work with the theater and Pieces of the Puzzle "

 
 
 
 
    

   

r—5/W’ A Us ’’%~ ROOM University “J
scam PRINTING F°““ENT Cleaners   '
g ff) 10,421§;°dI:,S0mS WE’LL GET RID or YOUR DIRT ’
“it C; Q r Upstairs apartment
  (:6 .  Utilities included g '
“N  4miles from campus Great service i
«'37 Waddell St. 6 Ca111Pf;iJ1:§::f:§§f3644 First—Rate Quality ,
 (f,;‘x°()s4g;?‘  A 7 North Jefferson Street dry cleaning,
J 463-3622 laundry, alterations 4 _ V .
srsrvsucm _
Golf E tlquette *

   
   

 

hi: .... .. n  
w  gm», Wt»,  Li J tip of the
/ " ’ 5 week: ’

 

Gnzsm Law. .  Rmcsst
l3lL»'tTE$i§§LE'x' .-ER i‘J'iElH’x3f3

5&3?-=45€~3é$}’
  Replace your

309 N. min St. d -
Lexington, VA 24450 .  I ,

    

Yr? 5, Sam (ash, Go Free!
New mag Omtampvs Reps

 
  

 

.3 www.s:2ns§1ash%ear$ as

 

MEGANMORGAN

ARis&IrEEnn0R
FMAIL-MoRc;ANM1@WLU1~DU
MONDAY, JANUARY 12, 2004

 

8t LIFE

PAGE 11

Think everyone goes Greek? Meet independent Zack McQui g g

BY KELLY Jo LARSEN
. STAFF WRITER

According to Inter—Fraternity Council Ad-
visor, Matt Jacobs, roughly 80% of men on
campus are members of a fraternity, give or
take about 5% either way. On a campus as domi-
nated by Greek life as ours, independents can
seem far and few between. As formal rush con-
cludes pledgeship looms, promising to claim
every waking moment for the men of the fresh-
man class. As the boys disappear from resi-
dence halls, many freshmen will be left won-
dering, “Is the entire school Greek?”

Meet Zack McQuigg. He’s a senior man-
agement major from Baltimore. Freshman year
he played football and remains the football
team’s biggest fan. He likes to post campus
notices, usually concerning proper campus
notice etiquette or the now infamous

Surgeon’s Generals— though most people still

aren’t sure exactly what the Surgeon’s Gener-
als ever really were. Talk to anyone that knows
him and you’ll hear about his wisecracking
sense of humor. Friends say he’s a great guy
and an even better friend. They’ll tell you he’s
spontaneous——who else but Zack would nomi-
nate himself for homecoming court? Again and
again you’ll be told that he’s hilarious and
maybe just a tad ridiculous, in the best of ways
of course. Probably the least important thing
you need to know about him is that he’s an
independent.

For Zack not being in a fraternity is a non-
issue. It's not something that he defines him-
self by; he’s not Zack the independent, but
rather he’s just Zack and he happens to be an
independent. He cites many reasons for why
he didn’t go through formal rush: he didn’t
drink, he had a girlfriend at home, he played

WINNERs

 

Lip Synch! Students sing and dance for the Washington and Lee University community as part of the
annual Lip Synch contest held annually everyjanuary since 1987. The event, sponsored by the
Students Against Rockbridge Area Hunger, is student run and operated. This year’s Lip Synch
committee consists of Ansel Sanders, 04, Thomas Worthy, O5, Pierce Owings, O6 and advisor John
T. Taffe.

football, but mostly he just didn’t want to. “All
my friends did... but Ijust didn’t care. Ijust
didn’t agree with the whole process,” Zack
explains. -
Part of his ability to survive as an inde-
pendent on campus is probably based in
Zack’s self-confident nonchalance. “I don’t.
try to fit in with people. I am who I am. Ijust
get along with anyone,” he explains. He
doesn’t fit into a box, nor does he really want
to, and he’s happy the fraternity system hasn’t
pigeon-holed him. Often after rushing, people
can get caught up in the stereotypes of the
Greek system. “A lot of people try to be what
the fraternity is,” Zack explains, but “I’m still
the same person I was when I came here.”
Another key to his happiness can be attrib-
uted to his close—knit group of friends. For
some independents the thought of living situ-
ations sophomore year can be slightly in-

The 17th Annual Lip Synch will be held on January 23rd in the Student Activites Pavillion. All E.C.
recognized organizations are eligible and encouraged to participate in the event. Admission is $10 and can be
swiped home. Sign-up sheets for the acts will available outside the Commons from Monday the 19th to
Thursday the 22nd. A mandatory meeting for the heads of all the acts will be held on the 22nd. Look for
posters and campus notices for more detailed information.

timidating. Most of their friends will move into
the house, and they’ll be “left alone in either
Woods Creek or Gaines. Fortunately for Zack, that
“wasn’t an issue at all.” All of his best friends
pledged KA, and the KA pledge class was so
large that they overﬂowed into Woods Creek. Zack
lived with four KA’s sophomore year—the people
he always knew he would live with. Those guys
are still some of his closest friends, so Zack never
lacks on social activities. He spends so much time
with the KA’s that many people on campus as-
sume he’s a brother, never considering that he
might be an independent.

Reﬂecting on the Greek system and his nearly
four years here, Zack is glad that he’s not in a
fraternity, but he’s not opposed to the system in
general. “For this town it’s good. Without it, the
school would pretty much suck,” he explains.
“There’s ﬂaws in it, but what do I know? I’m not
in one.”

Several new films showing this January

BY MEGAN MORGAN
ARTS 8: LIFE ED1ToR

This January, students
have the opportunity to at-
tend showings of several
films, both domestic and
foreign, which will be pre-
sented by various organi-
zations throughout the
month. All of the films will
be shown in the Elrod Com-
mons Theatre unless other-
wise noted and are open
free of charge to the Wash-
ington and Lee community.
Below is a description of
the upcoming films and the
dates that they will be
showing.

On January 12 and the
15”‘, Washington and Lee
University will present the
film Intolerable Cruelty, a
romantic comedy starring
George Clooney as divorce
lawyer”.-Miles Massey and
Catherine Zeta Jones as
the gold—digger he spars
against through her numer-
ous divorces and remar-
riages. The film, directed
by the Coen brothers
whose other films include
“Raising Arizona”, “The
Big Lebowski,” and “O
Brother Where Art Thou”,
will be shown at 7 p.m. on
the 12”‘ and 9 p.m. on the
15'“. R

At 9 p.m. on January

l3“‘, the university will
show the film Lost in Trans-
lation starring Bill Murray
and Scarlett Johansson and
directed by Sofia Coppola
who made her directorial
debut in The Virgin Sui-
cides. Murray plays and ag-
ing star that is reduced to
making whiskey commer-
cials in Japan. Free from a
loveless marriage and
struggling with boredom,
he befriends a young Yale
graduate who is staying in
the same hotel while her
photographer husband is
on assignment.

At 7:30 p.m. on the. 16"‘
and 17”‘, the film society
will present the film
L ’ A u b e r g e
Espagn0le,which is in
Spanish and French with
English subtitles. The film,
released in 2002, is about a
Frenchman that is required
to learn Spanish for a new
job andenters an decides
to enter an exchange pro-
gram in Barcelona. While
there, he shares an apart-
ment with other students
from all over the continent.
The film, in addition to be-
ing a coming of age com-
edy, also shows the ben-
efits and problems facing a
newly-united Europe. USA
Today says the film “ener—
getically captures the fren-
zied pace of contemporary

existence, thecomplexities
of life in a multicultural
world, the rootless joys of
living in a foreign city and
the heady world of possi-
bilities one envisions while
in college.”

On the 20”‘ and 22“"- the
Minority Students Associa-
tion will host a showing of
the film Boycott in the
Northen Auditorium at 9
p.m. to celebrate Martin
Luther King Day. The film,
created by HBO Studios as
a made-for cable drama,
chronicles the 1955-56
Montgomery Bus Boycott,
which started the modern-
day Civil Rights movement
and launched Martin Luther
King Jr. onto the national
stage.

Finally at 7:30 p.m. on
January 23"‘ and 24"‘, the
W&L Film Society will
present Thirteen. The film,
which was written by and
stars thirteen year old Nikki
Reed, tells of a smart, geeky
“good” girl that falls under
the inﬂuence of the popular
and reckless Evie. The film
follows Tracy’s transition
from child like innocence to
a life of promiscuousness,
drug abuse and self mutila-
tion and the strain this puts
on her relationship with her
single mom who is a recov-
ering alcoholic struggling to
hold her own life together.

BY HAYNES KING
STAFF WRITER

All students at Washington and Lee sit
through standard freshman orientation in Lee
Chapel and have probably even toured the
chapel museum on a visit to Lexington to visit
the college. But with Founder’s Day in the
near future, it would be apropos to revisit the
chapel and remind ourselves of the great his-
tory behind this univer— '
sity. Often, one forgets
the importance of his or
her surroundings be-
tween the classes, meet-
ings, and homework of
his or her daily routine.

Although called
Lee chapel, the building
was not intended by
Robert E. Lee to be a
church, but an audito-
rium for all purposes of
Washington College.
Even today, it has a greater seating capacity
than even the Lenfest Center, meaning that it
is the largest auditorium on campus. Construc-
tion of the chapel was completed in 1868, two
years before Lee’s death. During Lee’s presi-
dency, the college held daily worship services.
A plaque marks the pew where Lee sat for these
services.

Lee Chapel houses two extremely important
paintings: the Pine portrait of Lee during the War
Between the States and the Peale portrait of Wash-
ington as a colonel in the Virginia Military. The
Washington portrait, however, is on loan and not
presently in the chapel.

 

Lee Chapel museum neccesary
stop for every W&L student

In the basement of Lee Chapel, Lee’s of-
ﬁce sits much like it did his last day that he did
work there. The basement also included a stu-
dent center and the library when the chapel
opened in 1868. Now there is a museum that
includes the Washington-Custis—Lee Portrait
Collection. These three Virginia families are
included in this collection. George Washing-
ton Custis Lee, son of Robert E. Lee and the
following president of Washington College af-

ter the death of his father
gave the beginning of the
collection to the college.
In 1918, his sister Mary
gave the remaining por-
traits in the collection to
the university.

The chapel can now
be used for personal rea-
sons, such as marriages.
Unfortunately the de-
mand for the use of the

> chapel requires that only
people connected to the
university are able to use it.

The historians that give tours of Lee
Chapel are knowledgeable about the subject,
and they are more than willing to answer any
questions that you may have. A nice gift shop
sells many books and portraits of both Wash-
ington and Lee. The Lee Chapel museum also
has possibly the finest and cleanest bath-

rooms anywhere on campus. So, if you are _

already down there,‘I would suggest taking
advantage of the facilities. Finally, don’t for-
get to say hello to Traveller, Lee’s beloved
horse, whose remains are buried to the right
of the entrance to museum.

 

 

PAGE 12

Top 10:
Undergrad cars

Jeep, Accord among favorites

Data provided by University Security

91 Jeep
Cherokees

 

www.jeep.com

71 Ford
Explorers

 

www.f0rd.c0m

49 Honda
Accords

 

www.honda.com

47 Toyota
4Runners 4

    

www.toy0ta.c0m

35 Volvo
sedans

   

www.chevrolet.com

33 Honda
Civics
I www.honda.com

30 Nissan
Pathﬁnders

 

www.n1ssanusa.com

24 VW
J ettas

 

WWW.VW.C0m

 1 0

 

www.toyota.Com

KATIE]. HOWELL / 7l9eRing-tum Phi

THE “ill”

 

 

lvl1r;ANl/IORGAN
AR”IS&LIFEEDIl0R
mm m

MONDAY, JANUARY 12,2004

Rush week is over, good riddance to it

I love fraternities. I love the friend-
ships that they form, the camaraderie
they foster, and theifun times that they
facilitate. Fraternities, contrary to oc-
casional public stigmas, can be good
things. We at W&L know this particu-
larly well.

Yet every year when Rush Week comes
around, I sometimes wonder why I’ve al-
lowed myself to condone, and even defend
(in these very articles I write) these frater-
nities which cause so much drama, trauma,
and pain for one glorious week.

A On paper, Rush Week seems pretty
sweet. In one final display of the perfect
fraternal image, the houses welcome the
freshman fellas into their houses, treat them
all to free meals and free des-
serts, and of course invite them
to come back to get the all-im-
portant bid. It seems so simple.
Freshmen decide which houses
they like. Fraternities decide which fresh-
men they like. When a freshman likes a
fraternity who likes the freshman, then ev-
erything works out, presumably.

If only it were that easy.

Rush Week is characterized by hurt
feelings. Whether we like to admit it or
not, fraternity guys can be sort of sensi-
tive when random freshman X who is uni-
versally liked decides to look elsewhere
to a supposedly “cooler” fraternity. Man,
it feels so great to be considered the Not-
Cool-Enough-Absolute—Frat—Lord.
Thankfully, we frat boys get our revenge.
We get to decide who doesn’t make the
cut. Naturally, every fraternity boy, hav-
ing been infused with the glorious wis-
dom and knowledge that only fraternities
can create in one’s mind, is a perfect
judge of character and can deem effort-
lessly who is worthy of the all-important
bid.

I’m lucky. I committed a cardinal Rush
sin, and suicide—rushed the one fraternity
I liked. Thankfully, I got a bid. Thus, I
never got that phone call that so many
freshman are now familiar with. It usually
goes something like this: “Is this Billy-
Bob” — “Yeah” — “Hey this is Cletus over
-at Alpha Beta Gamma" — “Hey whats up” —
“I’m just calling to let you know that things
aren’t going to work out with our house.
The brothers talked it over and think per-

 

haps you should explore other options.”

Translation = You’re not Alpha Beta
Gamma material. Maybe you looked at a
brother the wrong way. Maybe you danced
with a brother’s hot porn-star-looking girl-
friend at a band party. Maybe you’re also
looking at another lesser fraternity as an op-
tion, a big no-no. Maybe you have a uni-
brow and you smell. Who really knows? All
you know is that you were essentially told
that you’re not cool enough to be in that
fraternity. Man, that sounds pretty sweet,
right?

Meanwhile, it’s not any easier for the fra-
ternities. You wanna see frat boys fight? You
wanna see frat boys cry? Why don’t you sit
for a few hours in a fraternity bid session?

a It’s no easy thing deciding on
relationships which will af-
fect you for the rest of your
undergrad years. Certainly,
we fraternity guys are infi-
nitely wise, as I have said, so it must be easy
to decide who to give bids to, among all the
first impressions, friendships, rumors, and
other people’s opinions that are involved.
Well even the wisdom of frat boys can falter
at times.

Complicating the entire process, which is
plenty annoying already, is the ridiculous stu-
pidity that some fraternities fall into so that
they can win the Rush Week Showdown.
“Hey guys, I got a great idea — let’s tell that
freshman that Fraternity X is lame, full of los-
ers, and they never get any girls over there.
That way he’ll join our house!” Great idea,
let’s dirty rush — I’ll sacrifice my principles
and level of decency to woo some freshman
if you will.

Wait though, that can’t possibly be
enough. “Hey guys, I got another great idea
—— let’s just get these freshmen completely
wasted. That way, they won’t want (be able)
to leave and accept a bid somewhere else.”
Sweet. That’s a sure-fire way to get fresh-
men. And’ if a freshman still tries to leave,
we’ll just let him stumble out of our house
and who cares where he ends up after that? A
great way to treat the guys who we would
welcome as brothers, right? Some fraternity
guys seem to think so.

Why does all this happen? Every year, it
repeatedly seems so blatantly clear. Rush
Week is not about friendships. It’s not about
feelings. It’s not even about fraternities. Rush

Week is simply about Economics. It’s a com-
petition. Look at the aftermath — how do fra-
ternities judge themselves as a Rush suc-
cess? It’s about numbers. They look at the
size of their pledge class, compare it to ev-
eryone else, and then revel in the joy of hav-
ing received respectable numbers. Or they
wallow in the defeat of having a non-accept-
able total. Few fraternity guys stop to think
— “Hey, each of our new pledges hasgreat
character and will be a great friend for years
to come.” When this comes to mind, it usu-
ally does as an afterthought to the success
rating of the pledge class total.

I’m sure I’m not the only one to be dis-
turbed by this. I’ve loved being in a fra-
ternity. Given the choice, I would never
choose otherwise — being a frat boy, a Frat
Lord even, has contributed so many great
things to my college experience. But then,
when I stop to think that perhaps the only
reasons I got into a fraternity was because
I was a number, just a body to make the
pledge class total a little higher, that really
starts to eat at my brain. No one wants to
feel that way — it’s psychologically crip-
pling. We want to believe that we were
invited to join because it meant something,
to ourselves and the brothers who consid-
ered us worthy.

Thankfully, Rush Week is only a blip on
the screen. It’s the one week, more than any
other, when fraternities are transformed into
corporations, vying against each other with
cut—throat tactics to achieve the ultimate goal
— strength in numbers. For the rest of the
year,- fraternities are fraternities, doing all the
things that fraternities are supposed to do —
throw massive parties, drink at unreasonable
times of the day, and cause a general unruli-
ness for society.

Now that Tear Night has come and gone,
fraternity life at W&L can return to this nor-
malcy. Now we can resume the lifestyle
which has all made us realize over and over
again why we love fraternities and why we
are happy to be in one. Rush Week is not
what fraternities are about. If that were the
case, no one in their right minds would want
to join one, and subject themselves to that
kind of senseless crap. Fraternities area
great thing. Rush Week is not a great thing.
That’s why this Frat Lord is glad that he’ll
never have endure another one for the rest
of his days. i

More ideas to save Spring Term: rush tickets, Chick—fil—a

 

Now that winter has descended
on MicroLex with unrelenting
artic fury, balmy days on the Col-
onnade are probably the farthest
thing from students’ minds. None-
theless, with the February meet-
ing of the Trustees
fast approaching,
solutions for sav-
ing Spring Term are 
in order. Hence-
forth, some modest suggestions.
Sell tickets to sorority rush
events. After one’s first two experi-
ences, fraternity rush takes on a
depressing repetitiveness and

 
 

mundaneness. On the other hand, I
sorority rush boasts an ever-
changing variety of songs, skits

and philanthropy projects. ~More-

over, the sheer organizational skill
that sororities manifest in their abil-
ity to efﬁciently and thoroughly
maneuver freshman girls through
the house is singularly impressive.
The most the average frat guy ever

learns about

  THE  these mysteri-

‘ ous produc-

" BREITKIRWAN 04 tions of song
and sisterhood

are scraps of nimors and third—hand

stories. Like the discovery of King
Tut’s tomb or the ﬁrst contact with
a previously unknown tribe, tick-
ets to sorority rush would gener-
ate irnmense enthusiasm and share
the truth about a great enigma. Few
events on our fair campus could
attract upperclassmen willing to

pay top—dollar for tickets like so-
rority rush can.

In fraternities, juniors and
especially seniors take a some-
what hands-off approach to
rush leaving the bulk of the work
to sophomores. Rather than trap
disengaged upperclassmen in
boring rush dinners with fresh-
men whom they barely know,
why not allow them to attend
what are no doubt spectacularly
funny and extraordinarily well-
rehearsed rush events. For an
extra fee, frat guys could partici-
pate in the full range of activi-
ties and attend rush dates as if
they were freshmen girls.

Put .a Starbucks and
Chick-ﬁl-a in the old Co-op.

Despite MicroLex’s status as a
tourist hot spot, mass-market din-
ing options are seriously lacking.
These two establishments stand
out as venues that most students
enjoy at home and lament the lack
of in Lexington. Jack up the prices
and use the proceeds to pay for
more professors. What entrepre-
neur wouldn’t want to sell to such
a captive audience?

Starbucks is a no-brainer.
Since the designer, over-priced
coffee craze swept the nation, all
Americans, and college students
especially, have become addicted
to Peppermint Mocha
Frappuccinos and Caramel
Macchiatos. Even my Chinese
teacher from Taiwan said the thing

she missed most about home was
the lack of a Starbucks in Lexing-
ton. Putting a Starbucks in the
Co-op would plug a gaping hole

in student services and raise a '

pretty penny for Spring Term.
Imagine how much students
would pay for Iced Chai if they
could-swipe it home.

Being a damn Yankee, my
exposure to Chick-ﬁl—a’s famous
sandwich is somewhat limited,
but the draw of the crucial pick-
les drives many students to fol-
low the advice of the
restaurant’s spokescows to “Eat
Mor Chikin.” The Co-op is
great, but desperate times call for
desperate measures (and the
competition might drive the price

 

MAD Cow? Generals love Chick-ﬁl-'
a. Build one in the Co-op.

of the cheesesteak). Even no-
where school SUNY-Cortland has
an on campus Chick-ﬁl-a, why
doesn’t W&L?

 

“'75

Q State Chairs want to know: Will Professor
Denbow be holding office hours after Mock Con
concludes?

 

Q “I have more bills than a ﬂock of ducks.” —Spliter
Staniar -

Q Freshmen Jim Ryan and Lane Earnest have an-
nounced that they will be getting married next month
in Lee Chapel. All are welcome!

Q Actually, not a single girl wants to know how
many licks it takes to get to the center of a Lalli pop,
maybe you should ask CC.

(I) The students of Washington and Lee, as a
group, are rarely so collectively hung—over as they
are following Tear Night.

Q The new Lord of the Rings rocked. I liked it
so much that I proceeded to buy the movie poster
from the cinema and rub it all over my naked, cold
body pretending it was rnithril and I was Frodo,
the hobbit.

Q A certain male lacrosse player told me that it
only takes a few licks to finish off a Lalli pop. 1

Q Whitney Doss needs to come hang out on
Baker first ﬂoor. Or, she at least needs to go out
so we can see her more.

Q Whatever happened to free Cokes and cof-
fee during exam week? I guess the administration
got rid of them so they could give themselves a
pay raise and create a new position—— Vice-Dean
of Crossgender Social Relations with the Main-
tenance Staff.

Q If W&L Life wants to be really helpful, they
should pass out fewer bell-bedecked condoms
on date weekends and more aspirin on Sunday
mornings.

Q More on that note: For our small school of
only 2,000 students, the school purchases 4,000
condoms each year.

Q Congratulations to all the new sorority
women.

/

Q Utah and Kansas are the only two states in the
Unionthat send more law students than undergradu-
ates to W&L.

Q Friday was the 126th anniversary of King
Umberto I’s ascension to the Italtian throne.

Q Many thanks to the Rho Chis who helped th
freshmen girls make excellent choices. '

Q Guru is the Sanskrit name of the planet Jupiter,
which in vedic astrology is believed to exert teach-
ing inﬂuences.

Q Holy icicles, Batman! What is up with the frigid
temperatures that have cursed MicroLex this week?

Q Don’t tell anybody, but Steve Tomlinson is
sleeping with the Dean’s secretary.

Q Howard Stern turns 50 today. Rush Limbaugh
turns 53. What about being born on January 12 led
to radio stardom?

Q Way to go women’s basketball. They really
are awesome.

Q What's cooler than being cool?

Q I’m sort of disappointed more Mock Con del-
egations haven’t thrown parties yet.

Q Learn the difference between adjectives and
adverbs. ’

Q The band last night at SAE was awesome. Be
sure to return, Monticello Road.

Q The Commons would really becomplete if only
it boasted the same powdered hand soap dispens-
ers that make Leybum such a special place.

Q I’m disappointed that Volvo station wagons aren’t
one of the ten most popular cars on campus. They’re
really cool and seem to be virtually omnipresent.

Q Was anybody else surprised to see Professor
Velasquez, of all the professors on campus, mak-
ing the rounds on Tear Night?

Q Shake it like a twin star sister.
Q All bid day shirts should be long-sleeved.

Q Last year’s Pi Phi bid day shirts were heinous.
Well done this time, girls.

(I) Are you worried that Mock Con is less than
three weeks away and no one seems to know what
is going on?

Q“ E-mail your anonymous Quick Hits and wacky
Tear Night tales to phi @wlu. edu.

  

(

 

I3»-
I

 

L

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

G-TUM

ilrestiident ooice oflit/rrslringtorr imdlee University since 1897

PHI

 

/W»

MONDAY,]ANUARY 19,2004

2’ Honor Court record vanishes from VMI, state police investigate

1

BY PATRICIA BALIANTYNE
SENIOR STAFF \vRrrER

Someone broke into VMI’s Honor Court ﬁles,
and few cadets know about it.

Only one recent ﬁle appears missing.

On January 4, an intruder entered the Honor
Prosecutor's office in Maury—Brooke Hall. The per-
petrator entered by breaking a window on the bot-
tom ﬂoor, said VIVII Director of Communications Ken
White.

The detective from the Virginia State Police
needed DeShazor and the other Prosecutor,
Roderick James, to search their office looking for
any missing ﬁles.

They found a recent file missing, which gave
the investigation a suspect.

Christian DeShazor, one of the two prosecu-
tors’ of VMI’s Honor Code, was relaxing at home
when he received an unexpected phone call from
the VlVlI Superintendent Representative, telling him
someone had broken into his office.

The detective from the Virginia State Police
needed DeShazor and the other Prosecutor,
Roderick James, to search their office for any miss-
ing files. They found a recent file missing, which
gave the investigation a suspect. Stealing the file
accomplished nothing because another one could
be put together easily, in a matter of hours. An older
file, however, would have been much more difﬁcult
to reproduce.

The person knew what to do, according to
DeShazor, who said that the trespasser came in the
back of the building, entered the elevator, and
headed for the Prosecutors’ office prepared with a
tool to break down the door.

“It was pretty calculated,” said DeShazor. The

  

+. -, .- . -I
ORBJN LACKFORD I-E ING-TUM I-H

Theft. Ari intruder broke into the usually well-guarded Virginia Military Institute and stole an Honor Court ﬁle. The intrusion has been kept quiet on VMIs campus.

person “went through the filing cabinets and our
desk.” According to White, the police discov-
ered unlocked office doors to the Honor Court
President and the Honor Court Prosecutors of-
fices, and no obvious objects were absent.
“That room is always locked,” said DeShazor.
The Prosecutors’ office contains all of the

‘past files of VMI’s Honor Court. “I could find

ﬁles from the 1970s if I looked,” said DeShazor;

The VMI website calls their Honor System,
“the hallmark of VMI education.” Many as-
pects, such as Cadets controlling the proce-
dures, resemble W&L’s Honor System. Unlike
W&L, however, VMI keeps their records.

Therefore, the prosecutors’ office holds years
of sensitive information. VMI’s Honor Court actions
are kept quiet to protect the innocent. But all inves-
tigations files remain in the prosecutors’ office.

“It’s all very secret,” said DeShazor. “I would
hate for all that stuff to leak out.” According to
DeShazor, no one at VMI knows about the break—in,
especially because it happened over break. The is-
sue is still being given attention by investigators.

“Certainly, this type of activity is unusual at
VMI, so we’re taking this investigation very seri-
ously and appreciate the cooperation of the state
police,” said White.

Flurry of activity precedes Mock Con, keynote speaker remains undetermined

Thomas Menino, Mayor of Boston, Ronnie Dugger, cofounder of Texas Observer Jim Davis, Florida Representative, committed; no band signed

BY KAELA I-IARMON
STAFF WRITER

Memorabilia has been or-
dered, t—shirts have been made,
speakers have been lined up
and states prepare to make pre-
dictions as the highly antici-
pated 2004 Mock Convention
draws near. All of the chairs
have been working hard to make
sure that this year’s convention
is a success and although there
are still a lot of loose ends to
tie up things seem to be com-
ing together.

Jacquelyn Clark, who sits
on the executive board as per-
sonnel chairmen, said that the

memorabilia packages, which

include tumbler glasses, top
hats, t—shirts and other Mock
Con goodies, have been or-
dered and the poster design
and logo has been completed.
The biggest set back she has
had is that there was trouble
finding enough flatbeds for
every state to have a ﬂoat.
“Somehow they have not run
into that problem in the past so
we didn’t see that one coming.
But the parade chair, Emily
Tyson, has found 10 more
ﬂatbeds for us to use.”

Other members of the ex-

ecutive board and the steering

committee are also working
hard to make sure that every-
thing is coming together at their

end. Anne Idsal is the speak- _

ers chair and her chal-
lenge has been lining
up keynote speak-
ers.’ “We have
some minor speak-
ers signed on as
definites but due
to the timing of jg:
the primaries its
been difficult to get
speakers as well as media”.
Some of the minor speakers that
have been secured include Tho-
mas Menino, The Mayor of
Boston, Ronnie Dugger, Co-
Founder of the Texas Observer
and the Alliance for Democracy
and Florida Representative Jim
Davis.

Idsal said that they are still
in open dialogue with former
New Jersey Senator Bill Brad-
ley, Congressman John Lewis,
former Georgia Senator Sam
Nunn and a number of other
politicians who serve as surro-
gates to the candidates but she
made it clear that “It won’t be
until later in this week or early
next week that we’ll know some-
thing for sure”. Clark reempha—
sized Idsal’s challenge by stat-
ing, “ We’ve learned that people

  
 
 
 
 
  

on campaigns don’t plan very
far in advance”. Nonetheless,
Idsal is very confident that by
the.time the con-

vention starts
e v e r y‘-
thing will
be in
place,
“I’mdef1-
nitely
W n o t

w o r -
ried and
even if [somebody big] agrees
to come at the last minute we
will accommodate them”.

The state chairs and the re-
gional coordinators have the
key role of compiling enough
information to ensure another
successful convention by mak-
ing an accurate prediction.

This job has required that
each state chair and their co
chair develop working relation-
ships with key contacts in their
state who can help them figure
out how the voters will swing.
Each district is broken down
and a formula is used to deter-
mine what percentage of the
votes each candidate is likely
to receive.

The state chairs have had
to put in several hours of work
a week and with the race heat-

Brown but he has since de-

ing up between the top candi-
dates they have a lot of research
ahead of them before things are
said and done. 2

Oklahoma state chair John I
Vollbrecht said that at this point
its hard to tell exactly who will
win but he’s conﬁdent that they
will be ready for the convention.
“By the time of the convention,
I believe I will have enough in-
formation to make a correct pre-
diction.

Despite some states’ un-
certainties, John Heath, the re-
gional coordinator for the cen-
tral states, has the up most con-
fidence in his state chairs’ abili-
ties to make an accurate predic-
tion, “I feel our state chairs have
done such a good job that we’ll
be just fine on January 30”‘ and
315"’.

Other .than the keynote
speakers, the only issue that re-
mains to be resolved is the
question of who will be the
band for the weekend; At one
point the steering committee
was hoping to bring in James

clined. The two weeks before
the convention will be crucial
for everyone involved but ev-
eryone is confident that the
2004 Mock Convention will be
a success.

Tentative Schedule for 2004 Mack Convention

Friday, January 30th
.l0:30- Parade
1215- Preconvention Entertainment
1245- Call to Order
1250- Presentation of Colors
l:55- Pledge of Allegiance
2200- National Anthem
2205- Invocation
2: 10- Call for Convention
2215- Credentials Committee Report
2220- Rules Committee Report
2:25- Election of Permanent Chairman
2:30- Opening Remarks and Addresses
4:25- Benediction
4230- Adjournment
7:15- Entertainment
7:30- Call to Order
7235- Invocation
7240- Address #1
8:00- Address #2
8:25- Platform Committee Report
8:30— Platform Debate
9210- Keynote Address
9:40- Benediction
9145- Adjournment
Saturday, January 31st
9200- Call to Order
9105- Presentation of Colors
9210- Pledge of Allegiance
9: 15- National Anthem
9220- Invocation
9:30- Opening Address
9250- Additional Address
10210- Keynote Address
l0:40- Roll Call and Nominations for President and Vice President
l2:45- Benediction
l2:50- Termination of the Convention

Newspaper reporter visits, inspires W&L students

BY CHRIS LAUDERMAN
ASSISTANT ARTS AND LIFE EDITOR

Mike Doyle, a veteran newspaper re-
porter, spoke in Northern Auditorium on
January 13. Doyle works for the McClatchy
Newspaper Chain in the Washington Bureau.
He reports to newspapers nationwide.

Doyle is a witer, preorter an author who has
appeared on CNN, MSNBC and the Today Show.
He came to speak at Washington and Lee as
a Wilson Fellow last week.

Doyle, who is orginially from California,
graduated from Oberlin with a degree not in jour-
nalism, but in government. He siad that a liberal
arts education is the best way to learn to become
a reporter.

While at Washington and Lee, Doyle
spoke to many of the journalism and Politics
classes including Introduction to Reporting,
State and Local Government, and Interna-
tional Relations.

“I thought that he was an excellent
speaker, but he was not decisive,” said
sophomore Katie Jenkins. Many students

shared Jenkins view that Doyle was very in-
decisive.

Doyle also spent time with the staff- of each
of the campus newspapers. He advised the staff
of the Trident while they were working on their
most recent edition and
went to dinner with several

ures forfeit privacy? It is a battle between the
right of privacy verses the public’s right to know.

The Supreme Court established right of
privacy in 1965 in the Griswold versus Con-
necticut decision. Doyle believes that there
I is no free ﬂoating
public right to

section editors from the In f€P0ftif1g,th¢f€ are times know. James
Phil when journalists must turn Madison is

Doyle began his - quoted as de-
speech, titled “Pub1ic tthe” backsand “°”eP°” fending the
Men and Private Lives: MIKEDOYLE theory of the
Where Does the Media LWLSONFELLOWSPEAKER public right to

Draw the Line?” by speak-
ing of what makes a re-
porter.

The focus of his lecture was on privacy.
Gary Condit was a congressman that Doyle
followed. It was widely known that Condit
was a womanizer, but Doyle chose not to
report because that was private. Had he
known what would happen to Chandra
Levy, he may have reported on Condit’s be-
havior sooner.

This poses a huge question: do public fig-

know. Doyle
says that this is
taken out of context.
Another, more recent example of privacy and
the media would be the LA Times releasing a
story about Arnold Schwarzenegger groping
women five days before the election.

Should the story have been written and 1

published? 10,000 readers cancelled their
subscriptions, but Doyle feels it was exem-
plary reporting.It was good reporting because
when electing a public official, many people

vote on character. Therefore, as a society,
we must know everything about this char-
acter.

Doyle half agrees with this belief. Half
of him thinks otherwise. He never came to a
conclusion, stating that in reporting, there
are times thatjournalists must turn back and
not report.

The example Doyle used was Sepemtber
l 1, 2001. People were plunging to their deaths
on this day, and the media chose to run these
messages continually. According to Doyle,
there is a time to look away; people will al-
ways be falling and if we are wise, we will turn
away.

Doyle’s book, “The Forestport Breaks: A
19th Century Conspiracy Along the Black River
Canal," is set for publication by the Syracuse
University Press.

The Wilson Fellowship brings a practicing
journalist to campus each year to teach, lecture
and advise. This visit gives journalists a chance
to chare their knowledge with students as well
as give students a chance to interact with pro-
fessionals in theirfield.

 

I7

VoLUiiEC3dI,No.5v‘liI

    

g ‘  '..§a«':a«.  I J.9it,m.- '
“  ‘~;» ~.. iii‘? l’-’»°."".“-;‘.'
;7‘.'Y..’-:‘3‘ 3-  .,~.,._.

last 2820!}!

W

PAGE 2

MONDAY, JANUARY 19, 2004 '

Hidden Hero Julianne Shelley toils for Literacy Campaign

Julianne will also be working this Spring to raise money to support Cystic Fibrosis research, studies hard and loves children

Julianne Shelley serves others ‘selﬂessly. While tutoring
middle school students her freshmen year she discovered,
much to her surprise, that many could not read well.

Now, in her junior year, she is organizing an
adopt-a-classroom program for the Literacy 
Campaign. Although she was involved with th
Campaign in previous years, Julianne has be
come increasingly active and is assuming lead-
ership roles this year, and her hard work is surely
to the benefit of the Literacy Campaign.

She and Kristin Crawford will beihosting a charity ball for
the program soon. Last year, the group hosted a similar cam-
paign with the proceeds going towards the Cystic Fibrosis
Foundation. '

This year, Julianne will be involved in more charitable
events to support Cystic Fibrosis research.

Julianne spoke of the good times and fun she had work-
ing with children over the summer. She worked with kids at a
day camp doing various activities outdoors and indoors, in-
cluding helping as the Junior Staff at Sea Island.

Shelley is a Sociology and Psychology double major. She
started as a Pre-Med major, but later decided that she “really
wanted to know about people in general, not just the scientific
stuff.” .

She said that she loved her anthropology courses and
loved learning about different cultures. There is always some-
thing new to learn.

Julianne also said she was very happy to have taken the

 

   

Campus prepares MLK celebration

science courses she did, particularly Chemistry and Biology
here at Washington and Lee. Julianne hails from Savannah,
Georgia and said that she still isn’t used to the snow and ice
here, but the excellent professors and exten-
sive extracurricular activities have kept her feel-
ing right at home and plenty busy.

Julianne isn’t really sure what she wants to
do after college, but she knows that she wants
to work with kids.

Julianne said that, ideally, she would really like to work
for a non profit organization sometime in her future.

Right now, her plans include graduate school with her psy-
chology or sociology degree and “hopefully use that to help
out.”

Her advice to other students would be is to simply relax,
and smile more. “This school and life in general, can get really
stressful at times, but as long as you put all you can into what
you do you’ll be fine.”

Shelley described herself as “caring, hardworking, and
thankful.” She has clearly demonstrated all of those traits by
her actions on campus and elsewhere.

The Ring-tum Phi solicits nominations for students, fac-
ulty and staff whom you believe to be hidden heroes. If you
know of a member of the community who contributes quietly,
please feel free to nominate him or her to be interviewed for
our Hidden Hero section. Email your nominations to
phi@wlu.edu.

Hidden Hero. Juliarme Shelley Works as a tutor and is organzing the
Adopt-a-classroom program for the Literacy Campaign.

BY KYLE WASS
ASSOCIATE EDITOR

In the midst of a week-
end filled with Robert E.
Lee’s Birthday and the Lee-
Jackson town parade, Wash-
ington and Lee has found
time today to celebrate the
legacy of legendary civil
rights activist Martin Luther
King, Jr. Several campus
events were planned to mark
the signiﬁcant occasion.

King’s actual birthday
was January 15, and stu-
dents could receive birth-
day cake in the living room
of the Commons to cel-
ebrate. This celebration
was sponsored by the
Dean of Students Office,
Multicultural Student Or-
ganizations and the Martin
Luther King, Jr. Day Com-
mittee.

Today, King’s birth-
day is nationally observed
as Martin Luther King, Jr.
Day and is a federal holi-
day.

Tonight in the Market-
place, the dining staff has

provided a memorial dinner
of King’s favorite foods,
including fried chicken,
black-eyed peas, cheese
biscuits and sweet potato
pie. The memorial dinner

 

Brown as she presents
“Martin Luther King, Jr. and
the Quest for Civil Rights:
Then and Now.”

Brown graduated from
Fordham University in New

is sponsored by the York with a B.S., and re-
Multicultural Student Or- ceived her J.D. from
g a n i z a - Gerxgatiwn
tions. Univer-
After sity Law
dinner, School.
there will She has
be a pro- taught
gram fea— law at
turing “re— George
flections Mason
and pre- Univer-
sentations sity and
surround- the Uni-
ing the im— versity
pact that of Cin-
Dr. King’s cinnati.
legacy has Brown is
bad in now a
[the] lives profes-

of some of our students,”
according to Assistant
Dean of Students Tamara
Futrell.

Also in King’s honor,
the university will host key-
note speaker Dorothy

sor at the Washington and
Lee University School of
Law, where she teaches Ad-
ministrative Law, Critical
Race Theory, Federal In-
come Tax and Partnership
Tax.

Brown’s publications in-
clude works such as Racial
Equality in the Twenty-First
Century: What’s Tax Policy
Got to Do With It? Introduc-
tion: Symposium on Race,
Gender, and Economic Jus-
tice, and Critical Race
Theory: Cases, Materials,
and Problems.

Following Brown’s pre-
sentation at 7:00 PM tonight
in the University Common’s
Theater, the University will be
holding a processional and
vigil march from the Univer-
sity Commons to Evans Din-
ing Hall to represent the som-
bemess of the occasion.

According to the Law
School’s website, there will be

a celebration in Evans that ‘

evening.

Dean Futrell said that she
is “looking forward to the
event and think that it is im—
portant that students, faculty,
staff, and administrators take
the time to honor a man who
has played such a significant
role in history. . .not just black
history, but American his-
tory.”

  

Beware of string of laptop thefts

There has been a string of thefts in the Williams school and you
should contact the Director of Security, Mike Young, at mlyoung@wlu.edu
if you have any information relating to the thefts or if you need to report
something missing.

LIFE is now accepting new members

Life is now recruiting new members. LIFErs present programs
and organize health—related events. Pick up. an application form
outside of Carol Calkins’ office in the University Commons on the
second ﬂoor. Applications due Monday, January 26. Reserve Sat-
urday, February 7 from 1:00-4:00 for training. Questions? Call the
Office of Health Promotion X4501.

Mock Con predictions begin . 3 3

Despite uncertainty about the outcome of Monday’s Iowa Caucuses,
students at Washington and Lee University are predicting that Rep. Dick
Gephardt will emerge victorious.

According to Gregory Papeika, a W&L senior and the Iowa State Chair-
man, Gephardt will win with 28 percent of the vote, followed by Howard
Dean with 24 percent, Sen. John Kerry with 21 percent and Sen. John Edwards
with 17 percent.

“Gephardt seems to have the best organization to get out the vote,”
Papeika said. “He maintains the most consistent and stable polling of any of
the candidates.”

Soul food: true American cuisine for all people to enjoy

The white southern

BY TED DELANEY
PROFESSOR OF HISTORY

Traditionally, Washington and Lee Din-
ing Services serves a “soul food" meal on
the occasion of Martin Luther King’s birth-
day. The great civil rights leader was both
African-American and a southerner who
spent a good portion of his life in Atlanta.
King grew up on a diet that is not unfamiliar
to either black or white southerners. Both
races shared much in common, and food was

one of those things.
writer Willie Morris explained it best when he
described a New Year’s Day party that he
spent at the home of Al Murray in Harlem in
1967. The Murrays served bourbon, collard
greens, black-‘eyed peas, ham hocks, and
cornbread. Morris observed it was “a kind of
ritual for all of us. Where else in the East, but
in Harlem,” he wrote, “could a Southern white
boy greet the New Year with the good—luck
food he had had as a child, and feel at home
as he seldom had thought he could in [New
York].”

Not all southern-style cooking is soul
food. Spices make the difference! Soul food
originated with countless black cooks in the
Old South who combined traditional African
cooking methods with the foods they found
in the New World. The cooks prepared food
with their souls rather than written recipes.
State laws prevented them from learning to
read, and they developed new recipes that
they passed on to countless generations of
both black and white southerners.
chicken, for instance, is a favorite among
southern families and African-American fami-

Fried ‘

lies in particular. No corporation under-
stands how biracial fried chicken is in the.
South better than KFC. Two months ago I
took Professor Merchant to a black-owned
soul food restaurant in Houston. After stuff-
ing himself, Merchant said: “I never knew
sweet potatoes could taste so good!” But
not only sweet potatoes, everything in this
restaurant was exceptional.

Soul food and/or southern style cooking
is truly American cuisine, and it transcends
racial boundaries. Have fun eating with W

and L’s Dining Services on King’s birthday.

Be sure to support SARAH this weekend
by attending the infamous LipSync charity event.

Need a rest ﬁom
everyday life?

Treat yourself to a
luxurious full body massage by

 H 31" 1" 1.8’, BA, CMT

Certiﬁed Massage Therapist
Board of Nursing Certiﬁed
13 Years Experience

Gift Certificates Make
Great Valentine’s Presents!

(540) 264-0063

 

  

WE CAN DO IT!

. Repairs ~ Contacts
COOL FRAMES!
HOT LENSES!
SHADES!

raeuew oerueueuis

20 years serving Rockbridge i
at 203 N. Main Street, Lexington
463-7440

A Bar A Ranch:
Spend a summer in Wyoming

Spend your summer in Wyoming on one of
America’s best guest ranches. Now hiring for June
1 - September 11 and June 1 - September 25.
Check our staff web site at www.coolworl<s.com/
abara for details, or call Bob or Margie Howe,
Managers, at 303-838-1950. Bob Howe will be
on campus February 4. You can set up an inter-
view on e-recruiting. No need to post a resume;
you can bring it to the interview.

 
    

549-451-344?’

309 N. Main St.
Lexingt:On, VA 24450

5:.-am», La»‘3?E.1*;r3li Raseei
?2=.Ara:3:ia£>;«r.=te& 

V

1

V

.94’

 

 

 

    

"mi: Rl\£(}}~’l’UM i3}-‘ii

CAIEYANDEMON
OPlNlOl\BFDIl0R
mm m

PINIONS

 
 

 
 

  
   

‘ MONDAY, JANUARY 19, 2004 - PAGE 3
O O
1 ‘ :.'i7i‘li.-*»-’«::-*ii,ii.il’}~a2 R t b t t d H V 1 t
, ,)lTORlAL   ape mus e rea e as onor 10 a ion
1 ' ,
Drop/Add Policy
I’ in place for use, not refusal.
The Ring-tum Phi has recently
become aware of dozens of students
who were turned away from taking
‘’ courses pass/fail. Policies exist for a
reason and faculty ought to be willing
e to stand up and allow students to
explore a topic with the simple goal
I of academic enjoyment, not the worry
of a grade.
Washington and Lee, like many
universities, has long scrolls of
Q policies. We choose to abide by some
and ignore others. We see a problem
here. Students who are interested in
courses because of the topic should
1‘ have the right to take the class based .
solely on that interest without being
afraid of getting a bad grade.
Professors argue that students will
e not take a class as seriously if they
take it pass/fail. That reason is not a
sufficient one to prevent all scholars
from taking a course for the love of
its topic. If a pupil does not do an e
' adequate job in a pass/fail course, give , UKHSYOF '1 " ',,,
him 3 failing grade. Why Sh0ll1d 3 f6W INTHE SHADOWS OF WHITE COLUMNS‘ Our honor sets us free, but whyisn’t rape considered by the Executive Committee as anHonor Violation?
bad apples ruin the yummy apple .
cake? A Washington and Lee student, according to the sensitive issues related to rape cases makes realize what they’re doing. But it’s my opinion
V others say that students who are the White Book, acts dishonorably when he or handling of such cases by anyone else impos— that, in the end, the bottom line is that if you rape
on the waiting list for a course Should she commits a “breach of trust” as interpreted by sible. I disagree. There is no reason that mem- a fellow student, you have breached that
have priority Over those optlng to take the student body. through the Executive Cornmit— bers of the EC could go ‘through the same training student’s trust in a horriﬁc manner, whether or
the Class pass/l,-all tee. Given this simple policy, I find it astonishing and handle the cases with the same conﬁdential— not you meant to do it, or knew you were doing it,
. The grade a student receives - mat rape ls apparently n0_t Con‘ """"""""""""""" '3 """"""""""" " V Hy _ . . or Whether or not you would have dO,ne It Whe,n
, _ ~ sidered an Honor Violation at MODERATE SMUSINGS and sensitivity. you were sober. To the person who 1S raped, it
Whether It Is an A or 3‘ P ' Should not our University. ‘ Of course, it is not always this makes no difference; you’ve caused an irrevo-
inﬂllence her Chance at getting into a Let us begin with the easi— CALEY ANDERSON  easy to judge. If you look at pam— cable trauma in their lives and done untold emo-
SeCt1011- est case— one student, free of phlets and listen(ed) to your dorm tional (and perhaps physical) damage to them.
n In short, students have an the inﬂuence of alcohol, uses violence or threat counselors, you’ll have heardthe ominous statis— That, when the person trusted you not to, is dis-
incredible opportunity in the form of of violence to forcibly rape another student, who tic that one in four Washington and Lee women honorable. Can you imagine George Washing-
the pass/fail policy. It is a shame when is also sober. Is this not a “breach of trust” of the will be sexually assaulted during her four—year ca— ton or President Lee ever saying that rape, inebri-
a student who Simply wants to explore most serious kind? According to the current stu— reer here. While this sounds like a stretch, you ated or otherwise, would not be considered dis-
. an interesting eleetlve may not do so dent community, rape of this sort 1S not dishonor— can reconcile it by recognizing that there aren’t honorable conduct? l l _
» without the Worry of a grade able conduct, as the only on—campus appeal a too many out—and-out, sober. rapes on-campus. The bottom line is this— rape is not accept-
raped student has 1S to the Student-Faculty Hear- Far more frequent, I would imagine, would be able. I have absolutely no respect, and the ut-
Faculty: please let students . . . l . » . .
,. ing Board, which hears issues related to sexual murky goings-on that take place~under~.an alco— most contempt, for men. whoare guilty of this
take your Courses for 3' paSS/fa11 assault.‘ The SFHB may or may not dismiss a stu-I holic haze in fraternity basemhnts.‘ 'I;Ihis,raisasian vicious crime. — A person who commits rape lacks
my grade- dent found guilty of rape, but this is irrelevant, as important question— if there’s a drunken student common decency and empathy, let alone honor.
we’re not considering sanctions, but honor, and making aggressive and questionable advances If you place yourself in a situation where you
as one of many lines from the EC President’s an— and actions, is that dishonorable? end up raping someone while drunk, or if you use
nual speech to the freshman class oes, honor is Personally, I find this question difficult to re— substances to take advantage of the other per-
e     not mleasudredbby dlelgrleeeuaitid tlle faftlthat lying is solvelfl all] of lhejopinlon lthaltl olne sldioluld cclntrol son, it’s 11:1) dilfferentlh1;‘lIlkwas ’  lnot ail
consi ere a reac o s ,ye ra eis not, seems onese w eni comes oa co o ,an ama soo excuse, an “s ewas ” mos e mi e yisn’
anomalous to me. I am in no wail) critical of the the opinion that being drunk doesn’t absolve you either. I want students who are accused of rape
SFHB; they do their job well, but my argument is of guilt or responsibility. I can see that many referred to the EC in addition to their criminal pro-
“ - - - - - that when it comes to sexual assault, cases should people might think that drunken ra e is not nec— ceedings, and I want those who are guilty dis-
‘ ‘We hadacommumtyiwlde Chm Supperm fall within the jurisdiction of the EC. essarily dishonorable, and I can se: the reason— missed immediately and without question. I am
2m], and we were havmg bake sales every A convincing argument might be made that ing behind it. Someone under the heavy inﬂu- not willing to tolerate the presence of such people
week an herthe l l,, the SFHB s special training and experience with ence of alcohol is not in control, and may not inlmy University and in my Honor System.
, 0
~ W &L students must recognize MLK Day
~Mindy Bailey,
 0fKamnaC0mbS’mOm0W0nmn The city allid county govlernrpdient: are closed today. Federal day for the academic community, and students, faculty, and admin-
, , overnment o ices are also c ose . T e ublic schools are closed. istrative members scarcel reco nize the holida on their own. Since
1  1%/[any private college campuses are also 1c)losedto— I have beeni studint here, the Miiiiority Student Asso-
cancerinordertogarnishdonationsl day. But today, we students at Washington and TllAlN OF Tl_lOUGl_l»l ciation along with the Dean of Student’s office has or-
Lee University attended classes and carried on ‘ ganized a celebration for Martin Luther King, Jr. Day in
 W, _-,  with our business as if it was any other day in the  which the Gospel Choir sings, an important figure
e THE  PI-H calendar year. Yet it is not. Today is Martin Luther   O speaks, and students make reflections. I remember that
Edimrin Chief Jeb Brooks King, Jr..Day, a day that our nation has dedicated to the memory of not even half of Lee Chapel was filled last year and the majority of
Am-s,a,,,Ed,-,0, Kyle wees (Erie tof lhistogyjts mast lItI‘tlp()SI'IaIt1t[I8.(l'ld belovtedtfligtures. (1)nbthe  tltiedstuctlents who attended were minority students, especially black
Newsgdimr Erin -us en er s we S1 e, ore a co ing wro e a we ce e ra e 1S _ s u en s.
Opinions Editor Caleyilzlllldel-sol; holiday to “commemorate the values of It seems that people here think it is a holi-
' Asst. Opinions Editor Anne Finley courage, truth, justice, compassion, dig— day for blacks but the truth is that it is not.
A715 & Life Edil‘07 Megan Morgan nity, humility and service that defined Dr. Martin Luther King did not fight exclusively for
A5“ Am &L‘f"’ Ed’:"” Chris Laudeman King’s character and empowered his lead— the rights of black Americans. The dream he
:ﬁl;l0§;1Ir7:yE1f1¢f;0r:  ershipl.”l _ l had in mind encompassed peoplelfrom every
‘ . Chadmewietdejmge His inﬂuence 1S as important to the walk of life. He had a dream to improve the
Production Assistants Emllyledwards development and growth oflthis nationlas nature of humanity for everyone, not just for
Kelly Je Larsen the original founders of this country. It black Americans. However, he utilized the
copy Editors Alexa Moulevalls is because of his efforts, compassion,*and plight of blacks to exemplify the plight of hu-
l Katezawymcha courage that our society has progressed manity; the injustice of prejudice applies to
Sarah Beth Campbell from a darkened nation to a more enlight— us all, re ardless of how small or how lar e.
' Vanessa Arness ened one. The changes that he and civil We have Erejudices based on physical appear-
. Aubrey _Mi“°Y rights activists worked to implement truly ances, personalities, and personal decisions
Al::ts";:ssl,::;":fger' £:‘:dS§‘ef;‘:rt made our nation a more civilized nation in life. So essentially, the celebration of Mar-
‘ Cl.m'llan.onDl.rect0; Henry Grimm“ because everyone was at ‘least legally tin Luther King, Jr.’s legacy IS the celebration
Asst Clmulaﬁon Dix Stuart Presnell treated as equal human beings. Before of the legacy of human rights and a celebra-
D1-Sm-bum" D,-r_ Themes Worthy the Civil Rights era, we were civilized in tion for all humanity.

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee Univer-

the sense that we possessed the techno-
logical and economic innovations that

So I encourage all of you to reconsider the

purpose and meaning of Martin Luther King, Jr.

sity, Lexington, Virginia The Ring-tum Phi is a member of
k The Publications Board, but is otherwise independent
The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible sub-
missions and letters. All subrriissions must be e-mailed
to phi@wlu.edu or in the University Center mailbox by
5 p.m. Friday to appear in the following week’s edition.
Q The Ring-tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions
for content and length. Letters and columns do not
necessarily reﬂect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi
~ Editorial Board. Advertising does not reﬂect the opin-
- ions of The Ring—tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper
observes current court deﬁnitions of libel and obscenity.
‘V The Ring-tum Phi
University Commons Room. 341
Washington and Lee University

made us a viable global force, but when
there is turmoil and dissention between
people in a nation to the extent that we
had in the United States at that time, it
cannot be said that the United States was
a truly civilized nation. Because of King,
Americans entered into a new era absent of the racial barbarisms
present before.

Yet, in spite of the symbolic importance of King’s actions, the
Washington and Lee Community fails to recognize the day as a holi-

Phi Quick Poll

» Day and if you have felt disenfranchised from
the celebration, leave your concerns aside and
take a moment out for the sake of humanity. This
is what Martin Luther King Jr. would have wanted
us todo on a holiday to commemorate him. He
would not want to simply be remembered and

praised; he would want his memory to be a productive and meaningful

entity to inspire further progress in the fight to eradicate prejudice for
all human beings. So I invite you to come to tonight’s celebration
which will be held at 7 pm in the University Commons theater.

PHOTO COURTESY OF I I namericarzscom

I)u~:Aivm. Dr.MarrinLurherKing,]r.,civiln'ghtsleader.

Lexington, Virginia 24450 Yes- 79%

Te,el,hm_. (540) 453_4060 A random sample of 28 students were asked 95% Conﬁdence Yes but unoﬁiciall _ 147

' Fax: (540) 458-4059 “Are you involved in Mock Convention?” ’ y 0
Email: phi@wlu.edu No- 7%

Subscription rate $40

a

 

 

“Prospective minori

 

ty student

zzitlttxzstzistita

MONDAY, JANUARY 19,2004

  INIONS  

s”weekend not conducive to genuine diversity

PHOTO COURTESY OF

HoMoGENoUs? While Washington and Lee is not the most diverse campus, a hushed up “prospective minority student weekend” is not the answer, and in fact seems a little bit insincere. '

You may have noticed that there were
an unusually large number of prospective
students on campus this weekend. Actually,
considering the reason, it is
also sad that there were so few.
This weekend was an unofficial
gathering of minority students.
I don’t claim to know all there
is to know on this event, but a
friend of mine from high school told me in
class last year that Washington and Lee was
paying for her to come visit the campus for
a weekend.

At the time, I was jealous. I was a se-
nior in high school waiting for my accep-
tance letters and still deciding between sev-
eral schools. Washington and Lee, obvi-
ously, was very high on my list and I won-

 

THE BIG PICTURE
ANNE FINLEY ‘O7

dered why I had not been invited along with
her or why they didn’t seem to want me as
much as my friend.

The answer came after she
got back from beautiful, his-
toric Lexington. She had ar-
rived to find herself amongst
a very diverse group of pro-
. spective students. Under-
stand me when I say that this is not a bad
thing. I would love for Washington and Lee
to have more diversity, and the fact that a

school that was already so small was also,

very homogenous made me think twice
about coming to this fantastic and unique
institution.

My final choice of which school to at-
tend, which I made two days before the May

15‘ deadline while visiting Washington and
Lee, was between here and the University
of Southern California, which" is its polar
opposite in nearly every category. This was
especially true in the area of size and di-
versity. The only thing that bothers me
about this past weekend was that, at least
for my friend back in Texas who chose not
to attend this school, she was not informed

that the weekend was basically arranged,

for minority students only.

By all means we should invite accom-
plished students from all walks of life to
visit our beautiful campus and get a feel
for the unique experiences that Lexington
has to offer.

Yet, no one wants to feel that they are
only wanted for how they look on paper, or

the statistic they can fulfill or improve. If
we continue the positive practice of col-
lectively bringing minority students onto
campus, they need to all be informed of the
real motivation for the weekend.

We have nothing to be ashamed of, so
we should have nothing to withhold from
students interested in our university. The
level of diversity will only be improved by
changing our attitudes and exuding a sense
of openness and tolerance. It is not enough
just to focus on getting those who have al-
ready applied to seriously consider attend-
ing Washington and Lee. We must concen-
trate on making our school a place that a more
heterogeneous mix of people would want to
apply in the first place. And mere good in-
tentions and secrecy is not the way to do it.

 

 

 ass"->3.   arogr; ;w:' s.

  
 
 

  

    
 

 >5?’ E»‘.’a§:i. 3532 ’(-j<;?s'ss.  \;,\-I‘.
:91 ﬁes‘ was as
....

   

s-'. c5»'::-$:?vR;_;o air‘. 5.

"e.>>'7«v.<_s 
it-$2a>"1<.'4 €:6::sm3 aw -am /‘~:z_::_;j$3$

  Haliicom

 selection.

How smart is 33323: A13 tire textiﬁneiza you
need far up to  off iratasii ;;:r§::es.. New or
used. ail you have to do is go to l”t8tEf.£3=£}rt't
amt? type in the no-::2=Ee:t:it1eis.. at 35%: :n;um1:a:er's..
‘Then let mantra: take its rzuurse.

. :__::sssss2<£ "Ike.-‘.99 

 

 ';.,. .o6.;~.z':<_*;:f'l-V %*'."";:<2-9395:;.~1-9~;2".:'*‘;a- - ...¢sr;»2< ' -

  
  
 

 

I’

 

  

 

 

I '1 J(}lNHYIAl\D

I

'1

AI

AsrrANrS1>oRIsE.1rroR
mm m
MONDAY, JANUARY 19, 2004,

BY JOHN HYLAND ‘
ASSISTANT SPORTS Eorrorz

The W&L men’s basketball team got back on the right
track this week, breaking their six game losing streak with a
decisive win over Eastern Mennonite on Wednesday night
before dropping a tight decision to Lynchburg. The team’s
record now stands at 3-10, 2-5 ODAC.

In Wednesday’s victory at the Warner Center, the Gen-
erals opened up a 41-27 lead at halftime and extended their

’ lead to 18 points with just over ﬁve minutes to play. The

Royals went on a 23-10 run to cut the lead to ﬁve points at
87-82 with under a minute to play. It was too little too late,
however, as the Generals were able to connect their free

‘throws to seal a 93-84 victory. For the game, W&L shot 24

of 38 from the charity stripe. The Generals were able to win
despite being out rebounded, largely because they shot
lights out from the ﬁeld. They shot a season best 52% from
the ﬂoor, including 9 of 17 from the three point line. Fresh-
man guard, Chris Halkitis, was 5 of 7 from the three point
arc, en route to a career high 26 points and 8 rebounds.
Junior guard Mike Stuart chipped in with a season high 19
points and sophomore forward David W111 added 16 points
and 6 rebounds. The loss dropped the Royals’ record to 3-
9, 1-5 ODAC.

PORTS

Basketball losing streak ends

against Eastern Mennonite
ButGenerals drop tough loss to
Lynchburg in Wednesday night game

‘ ger roll with just 5 seconds left. The Generals turned the ball

”£°‘:’--iEi>i.l:=\?€;~1’E§E‘»«il}E~-E

The Generals and particularly Stuart were able to con-
tinue their hot shooting in the ﬁrst half of Wednesday’s
game at Lynchburg. W&L opened a 41-30 halftime lead, led
by Stuart’s 23 points on a perfect 8 of 8 from the ﬁeld, in-
cluding 7 of 7 from behind the are. For the half, the Generals
shot 16 of 23 from the ﬁeld and 9 of 12 from three point
range. Their sharp shooting would not continue into the
second half, however, as they shot just 6 of 21 from the ﬁeld
and 0 of 6 form three point range. The Hornets slowly
chipped away at the lead, ﬁnally evening the score at 61
with. 3:21 to play. The teams would trade free throws as the
score remained tied at 65 with just 17 seconds remaining.
On their ensuing possession, the Hornets’ Chris Manos
drove the length of the ﬂoor and hit the game winning fm-

over on the inbounds pass and Lynchburg preserved its
first ODAC win of the season, improving their record to 4-9,
1-5 ODAC. Stuart ﬁnished with 25 points and Halkitis
dropped 15 in the loss.

The Generals faced ODAC leader and the top-ranked
team in the country, Hampden-Sydney, last night at home.
They then travel to Emory and Henry on Wednesday night
for another conference match-up.

PAGE 5

TEVE V ARINOS 5 ING-77M H1

AIRBORNE. Sophomore Matt Lawless jumps for the goal.

Mens’ lacrosse team ranked 10th in Faceoff Division III preseason poll

URTIESY PORTS INr<)R1v1ImO1§i

ALL AMEUCAN FORM. Senior Dustin Martin is one of three preseason All Americans.

W&L SPORTS RELEASE

TOWSON, Md. — Inside Lacrosse released its
Faceoff Magazine preseason Division III men’s lacrosse
coaches poll on Friday afternoon. Washington and Lee
ranked 10th overall in the voting.

Defending national champion Salisbury sits atop
the poll with 68 first-place votes. Middlebury, last
season’s NCAA Runner-up, is second in the poll after
receiving four first-place votes. Following Middlebury
is Cortland, Washington College, Whittier, Ithaca,
Hampden-Sydney, Gettysburg, Lynchburg and Wash-
ington and Lee. Roanoke was a fourth ODAC school to
crack the poll at No. 16.

W&L returns six starters from the 2003 squad which
posted a 9-5 overall record, 4-2 in the ODAC. The Gen-
erals lost three games in overtime and four by’ a goal,
including the ODAC Championship game to Lynchburg,
6-5.

Leading the returnees are a trio Faceoff Preseason
All-Americans in seniors Dustin Martin (Manlius, N .Y./
Fayetteville-Manlius), Lawson Grumbine (Owings Mills,

 

Martin, Grumbine and Sanders tabbed
preseason All-Americans by magazine ’s poll

Md./Gilman) and Ansel Sanders (White Stone, Va./
Woodberry Forest).

Martin, a midfielder, was a second team selection
after garnering USILA Honorable Mention All—America
and First Team All—ODAC honors last season. He tal-
lied 31 pointson 22 goals and nine assists in 2003 and
enters his final campaignwith 73 career points on 56
goals and 17 assists.

A defenseman, Grumbine was an honorable men-

‘ tion selection after earning First Team All-ODAChon-

ors last season. He was a major cog in the Generals’
defense which allowed an average ofjust 5.93 goals per
game, third in Division III. He also picked up 37 ground
balls on the season.

Sanders joined Grumbine on the Preseason Honor-
able Mention All-America team. An Honorable Mention
USILA All-American last season, he posted a .608 save
percentage and ranked second in Division III in goals-
against average (5.89). He enters his final campaign with
a .602 career save percentage.

Washington and Lee begins the 2004 season on Feb-
ruary 20 as it travels to Greensboro College for a 3:30
pm contest.

Wednesday, January 21

THIS WEEK’S SCHEDULE

Tuesday, January 20 Thursday, January 22 Friday, January 23 Saturday, January 24 Sunday, January 25
0 Open 0 M Basketball at Emory 0 Open 0 W Basketball at 0 Wrestling at Ursinus 0 Swimming at
& Henry-- 7:00 Hollins-- 7 :00 Quad--11 :00 Gettysburg--1:00

0M Basketball vs. Vir-
ginia Wesleyan--3:00

0W Basketball at Emory
&'Hemy

0 Track at Susquehanna--
TBA

Ring-tum Phi: a century/is tradition

 

637 Waddell St.
Lexington, Va. 14450

(540) 464-9042

Fax (54o)4o4-esoo

Golf Etiquette Tip of the Week:

Make sure you concentrate or you might

ﬁnd yourself sbunking the ball.

aaax=z:aaa=eei'isix.
ragsazazwgsz

5T5TRAVBL.C°M
Joaamaars msazamraxapexau:

      

PHI
SPORTS

 

 rsW.s°aas§}asl1taa.rs.sem zf"

   
  
  

Sell Tri {am task, 60 Rec!

Raw mag On~(ctmpus Reps
Call for gram: discounts

. .

 

SPORTSWEAR

 

1-309«{»48~¢8-$9 I mmststtn-vc¥..z::m

#1 Spring Break Vacations!

Cancun, Jamaica, Acapulco, Bahamas &
Florida. Best Parties, Best Hotels, Best Prices!
Group Discounts, Organizers Travel Free!

Space is 1in1ited! Book Now & Save!
1-800-234-7007
endlesssummertours.com

 

 

 

  

PAGE 6



MONDAY,IANUARY 19,2004

Womens’ hoops wins 2 of 3 to even record

BY JOHN HYLAND
ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITOR

The W&L women’s basket-,
ball team won two of three games
this past week to improve even
their record to 7-7, 5-5 ODAC.
They have already. more than
doubled their 3 win total from all
of last year and currently sit in
6th place in the 12 team ODAC.

The Generals opened the
week at home on Tuesday
evening against Hollins. The first
half was tight, with W&L main-
taining a close 26-24 edge. Hollins
opened up a 17-6 run in the sec-
ond half to take a 50-40 lead with
just over 9 minutes to play. How-
ever, the Generals seemed deter-
mined to prevent Hollins from
notching their first ODAC victory
of the season as they closed the
game on 20-7 run led by fresh-
man forward Jessica Hunsinger
who recorded a career high 24
points and 17 rebounds. Sopho-
more guard Louisa Feve also had

. . C
3 Sohd an'ar°“nd game Wﬁh 14 COMING BACK. After winning two games this week, the Generals improved to .500.

points 11 rebounds and 5 assists.
The Generals were clearly aided by a decisive 47-33

V advantage in rebounds.

W&L traveled to Virginia Wesleyan on Friday
evening and came out of the gates cold, shooting a
woeful 6 of 27 in the first half to allow the Marlins
to open a 27-16 halftime for the Marlins. The start

 

  

COURTESY SPORTS INFORMA'I'ION
FRESHMAN MAXWELL COURTNEY

 

of the second half did not prove to be any better
for the Generals as they were down by as many as
13 points with 13 minutes remaining. Junior for-
ward Emily Barker hit a three pointer to spark an 1 1-
0 run that got the Generals back in the game. W&L
was ﬁnally able to take the lead at 39-37 when jun-

ior guard Bethany Dannelly hit a
pair of free throws with 3:39 left.
The Generals would not suc-
cumb the lead and connected on
their free throws down the stretch
to preserve a 49-44 win. W&L
shot a solid 16 of 20 from the line
in the second half to make up for
an otherwise poor shooting day
in which the Generals shot just
24% from the ﬂoor. They were led
by Feve’s 13 points and 9 re-
bounds. Senior forward Sarah
Michaels added 12 points and 9
rebounds. The loss dropped the
Marlins’ record to 3-8, 2-6 ODAC.

In the first half of Saturday’s
game at Lynchburg, the Generals
seemed that they would extend
their three game winning streak
as they opened a 35-25 halftime
lead. The Hornets opened the
second half on a 14-4 run to even
the _score at 39 with 13 minutes to
play. The score remained close
until the Hornets hit a three to
takea55-52 lead with 3:19remain—
ing to spark another run to close
the game with a 70-61 victory.
Along with very poor second half
shooting, the Generals were also
out rebounded 57-35 for the game. In the loss, W&L
was led by Feve’s 22 points and Darmelly’s 10 points
and 8 rebounds. The win improved Lynchburg’s
record to 5-7, 3-6 ODAC. The Generals face Maiy
Washington tonight in out of conference match-
up at the Warner Center.

 

Wrestling team finishes sixth in W&L Invitational

W&L SPORTS RELEASE

LEXINGTON, Va. — Freshman Maxwell
Courtney (Jeffersonville, Pa./La Salle College)
went 2-2 on the day and finished fourth in the
184-pound weight class as the Washington and
Lee wrestling team finished sixth at the 2004
Washington and Lee Invitational on Saturday
in the Warner Center.

Davidson finished the day as team cham-
pion (96.5), followed by Cumberland (74), Wash-
ington and Jefferson (60.5), Scranton (48),

Pensacola Christian (38) and W&L (5.5).

Courtney opened the day by pinning (2:31)
Washington and Jefferson’s Phil McCormick in
the quarterfinals, but fell to Donnie Scruggs
(Cumberland), 17-6, in the semifinals. In the con-
solation bracket Courtney defeated Patrick
Scandling (Davidson) with a 6-3 decision, but
couldn’t hold on in the consolation finals, fall-
ing to Trevor Needham (Scranton), 4-2.

The individual champions on the day were
Davidson sophomore Patrick Coman (Tulsa,
Okla.) at 125, Davidson freshman Jim Avola
(Montague) at 133, Davidson sophomore Matt

Leonard (Pompton Plains, N.J.) at 141,
Pensacola’s Steve McGettrick at 149, Davidson
senior Adam Sperling (Philadelphia, Pa.) at 157,
Davidson freshman Marcus Boyd (Durham,
N.C.) at 165, Davidson senior Marc O’Hair (Al-
exandria, Va.) at 174, Cumberland sophomore
Eric McCray (Miami, Fla.) at 184, Cumberland
junior Stephen Westbeld (Kettering, Ohio) at
197 and W&J sophomore Ken McDonald
(Washington, Pa.) at 285.

W&L will be back on the mat next Satur-
day morning at 11:00 am when it competes in
the Ursinus Quadrangular. '

   

Wash & Lee Post Bac 04

The Johns Hopkin Post-Baccai ureate
Premedical Programi prepares college

graduates with stong cademi
apply to the best '
them the persona attentio ,
science and mat Courses, ans
academic advising

eCi|C_

If you or someone you know wants to pursue a
career as a docto apply by March 1.

For more information, visit

records to
sch ols by giving
he necessary

www.jhu.edu/potstbac or call 410-516-7748.

DI’ :  Wantto become a doctor.”

  
     
      
  

IOHNS HOPI{li\i‘S

Post-Baccalaureate
Premedical Program

lity:

“I don’t have the
required courses
  for medical school.

77

 

L‘

PAGE 7

.  LIFE

MIBANMCRGAN
ARts&lrrrFDr1oR

mm m
MONDAY, JANUARY 19, 2004

Washington and Lee student brings international experiences

BY KELLY Jo LARSEN
STAFF WRITER

In just a few short months, a W&L sophomore
will celebrate a milestone birthday. N 0, he won’t be
trying for 21 shots at the Palms (never a wise choice)
or traveling to the ABC store for the ﬁrst time. Rather
Ethan Jameson will be saying good-bye to his twen-
ties because on April 29, 2004, he celebrates his thir-
tieth birthday.

Yes, his thirtieth birthday. Ethan grew up and
graduated from high school in Durban, South Africa.
Though he was accepted to college in South Africa
following his graduation he simply had no means to
pay for it. Instead, he went to work, tried to put his
dreams of college behind him and enjoyed a suc-
cessful career doing advertising work. While work-
ing in South Africa, Ethan received an invitation to
travel to Kuwait to start the creative department of
an international ad agency. He spent four years in
Kuwait, and remembers the time fondly. “It gave me
the opportunity to travel,” he explains. “In four years
in the Middle East I traveled to nineteen different
countries.” '

The Middle East was “not at all what I imag-
ined,” Ethan recalls. First “it was hot, damn hot,”
which might have been expected, but “the people
are so humble. It surprised me because Kuwait pro-
duces 5% of the world oil and has the highest GDP,
but you get there and some things still seem back-
ward... What struck me was the importance of the
family structure. Family and religion are so important
to these people.” Ethan was working in Kuwait dur-
ing 9/11 and remembers the day and the shock felt
through the entire Middle East vividly. Walking
through the city, “a man came up to me, grabbed my
hand, and said ‘I'm really sorry for what’s happen-
ing to your country’ in the little English that he knew.
I’m not an American, but I’m white, light haired and
blue eyed. That’s when my heart went out to them
[Middle Eastemers].”

Try as he might, he just couldn’t stop thinking
about college. On a whim he decided to apply for a

Lip Sync marks twentieth year

green card to the United States. In order to curb immi-
gration, the USA limits the amount of green cards, or
visas, it hands out. Annually it awards 50,000 visas to
immigrants who come from countries that have very
low past immigration rates—less than 50,0()0 immi-
grants to the USA in the last ﬁve years. Applicants
must have graduated from high school or have two
years work experience. Ethan says he simply “sent in
my $40 dollars and forgot about it.” A few months
later he received a letter informing him that a com-
puter had randomly selected his name from a pool of
over one half million to receive a green card. Ethan
had managed to win the green card lottery!

He then decided he was going to go attend col-
lege in the United States, no light decision. “I’m the
ﬁrst person in my immediate family to go to college.
I’m the ﬁrst member of my immediate family to even
graduate from high school,” Ethan explains. Further-
more, he was very concerned about his family back in
South Africa. While he was working in Kuwait he had
been helping his family ﬁnancially, and he knew his
monetary situation would only become tougher when
he quit working.

Nonetheless, he began researching good jour-
nalism schools, the career he hoped to pursue. Ethan
knew he wanted to go to a small liberal arts school,
but he couldn’t ﬁnd a small school with a journalism
program. He came to the conclusion that he was
going to have to sacriﬁce small size to get a quality
journalism education. However, “I kept coming
across W&L. The more I learned about it, the more I
was like, wow!” Ethan explains.

Even though W&L might not be the traditional
school for an older student to choose, Ethan ap-
plied to W&L and decided he was going to do any-
thing to gain admission to the school. In fact, Ethan
ﬂew all the way from Kuwait just for an admission
interview at W&L, the only school he even inter-
viewed at, and then immediately ﬂew back to Ku-
wait. When he arrived in Lexington he instantly fell
in love with the town. “We don’t have towns like
this in South Africa,” Ethan says. “I remember I
walked up from the main entrance, the one down

there by Lee Chapel, and I saw the colonnade and
said, ‘This is it.’ It’s such the quintessential col-
lege.”

He gained admission and in the fall of 2002
arrived as the oldest freshman in recent memory of
the university, a member of the Class of 2006. Un-
fortrmately, W&L was not immediately all that he
expected. “I got here and in the ﬁrst month made up
my mind I was going to transfer out,” Ethan recalls.
He stuck it out, and he credits pledging Chi Psi with
forcing him to stay. “They really kept me here. It’s
my little oasis of democracy in this sea of republi-
canism,” Ethan says with a smile.

Besides Chi Psi, Ethan fell in love with the aca-
demics offered by the University. “I came to W&L
for the journalism program, then I found out how
good the English program is, so I decided to double
major. I told my family and they said, ‘Why in the
world do you go to America to study English?”’

South Aﬁica is a former English colony.

Things haven’t been easy for Ethan. He was
forced to withdraw his little sister from private
school in South Africa because he could no longer
pay for it. The public school system in South Africa
is still recovering from the years of apartheid and
the quality of public education can vary drastically.
In addtion, Ethan’s older sister just got married,
and Ethan couldn’t be present for the wedding. She
also due to have a baby soon, and Ethan is not sure
how soon he’ll be able to see the infant.

The staff of the Ring-tum Phi recognizes that
diversity comes in all fomrs, in both traditional and
non—traditional deﬁnitions. Every week we strive to
feature a different student of diversity. If you know
a student who adds a little something different to
our university, and think they would make a great
spotlight in the Phi, please email Kelly Jo Larsen at
1arsenk@wlu.edu and nominate them.

Greeks: read this to make, keep friends

BY CHRIS LAUDERMAN
ASSISTANT ARrs8cL1rE Eorron

The 20"'Annual SARAH (Stu-
dentsA_gainstRockbridgeAreaHun-
ger)LipSyncwillbeheldFriday,Jarru-
my 23, in the Pavilion. Doors will
open at 8:30 PM. Lip Sync was
formdedin 1984byJerryDamell, Di-
rector of Dining Services with the
prooeedsgoingtoﬁghtMultipleScle—
rosis.

After a few years the proﬁts
started going to the 10-

Brassil, StevenMarinos, andlitendra

Shrestha
Taffe saidthatifnotforthestu-
dents,IJp Syncwouldnotbethesuc-
oess that it is. The fraternities and so-
rorities haveputtheirfullweightbe-
hind this event. There are no parties
schednledforthatevening., and most
students attend the event. The physi-
calplantalsodoesmuchfortheevent
'IlreysetuptliePavilior1f()r'Ir'p Sync.
Last year, the University used
leftover money to send 225turkeys
to food banks for

cal food banks. The
money is split between
Rockln'dgeAreaRelief
Association, Buena
V1staFoodPantry, and
Natural Bridge/
Glasgow Food Pantry.
The food pantries

Tlmnksgiving, divid-
ing the food propor-
tionally among the
food pantries.

This is the ﬁrst
year that the winning
actwillreceiveaner1-
graved trophy that

send Washington and
Leealistoffoodthattheyrreed Last
year, Washington and Lee raised
26,761 pounds of food for the three
pantries.

Apart from advisor JolmTaffe,
Lip Sync is student organized Presi-
dentofLipSyncthisyearisAnsel
Sanders, Vice President is Thonms
Worthy and Pierce Owings is also
onthecommittee. Next yearWor1hy
willbePresident, OwingswillbeVroe
Presidentand acurrentﬁeshman will
be appointed to the committee.
“This provides continuity to the
event,” said Taife.

Thisistheﬁrstyearforanew
committee that will be responsible
video taping the event headedby Pro-

ﬁessorDeMaria. ThemembersareFr1'c

theywillkeepforone
year. Another ﬁrst for Lip Sync is

thatitwillfollowa“Gor1gShow”for— ‘

mat. Ifthejudgesﬁndtheactbad
enough, they will hit the gong and
the act must stop. This is to keep
the offensive acts that have some
times been done in the past years
check.
Actswillbechargeda$100en-
try fee, and admission to the event
will be $10. Free snacks and bever-
ages will be included Sign-ups for
acts will be Tuesday and Wednes-
dayinfrontoftheco-op. Theorder
willbedeterminedbyadrawingheld
Thursday night attended by a rep-
resentative from each act. Fraterni-
tiesareallowedtohaveorreactwliile
sororities may have three.

BY JEB Bnooxs
FDITOR IN CHIEF

Greek life is easily the
most prevailing force at Wash-
ington and Lee and wields a
great deal of power over our
entire community. The impor-
tance of Greek life cannot be
questioned. Its significance
extends to Greeks and non-
Greeks alike. Whether you
like it or not, you must deal
with its realities. Because of
its blinding power, fraternity
men and sorority women can
miss out on some great oppor-
tunities.

Greeks at W&L must not
fall victim to the hatefulness that
pervades many Greek organiza-
tions at other institutions. Be-
have in a welcoming way. This
attitude guarantees a better col-
lege experience than the alter-
native. Instead of kicking
people out of a party, say
“hello.”

Last Saturday night was
tear night. The party-night of
party-nights at W&L. On this
pinnacle of our famed party-

scene, I made a stop at every
house, and I felt welcomed at
each one. My experience
proved that Dubyuhnellers are
gentlemen. Though it sounds
strange, I think Robert E. Lee
would be proud of tear night.

There is still room for im-
provement, however. A ten-
dency exists at W&L for
freshmen to pledge a house
and stop there for three years.
A good college experience is
about a collection of memo-
ries. Imagine how many more
great memories you could
have if you don’t pigeonhole
yourself into a solitary group
of friends. -Don’t get me
wrong, your fraternity or so-
rority will provide great
friends, just don’t allow them
to be your only ones. The
Greek house you choose (or
choose not) to join is'only
one part of your life. Don’t
let it dictate more than it has
to.

Worse than never meeting
new people is losing touch
with hallmates, classmates and
other acquaintances. During

\

your freshman year, you get
to know a lot of people. Dur-
ing your sophomore year, it
becomes easy to lose touch
with many of them. It is
shameful to see former
friends stop talking (or worse
yet, become bitter enemies)
just because of their respec-
tive Greek organizations.

To use a personal ex-
ample, I swam against the
tide. My roommate is not in
my fraternity. When we
were freshmen, he and I
joined different houses. We
have remained friends and
live together despite the fact
that we don’t share letters.
We share something more, a
true friendship. I would be
willing to argue that no-
where in any fraternity or
sorority bylaws does it say
that members may not remain
friends with non—members.
None of this is to say that
fraternities and sororities
don’t provide a venue for
lifelong friendships to de-
velop, just that there is more
out there than “frat—bros.”

On another note, we can
all agree that the Greek sys-
tem at W&L feeds a hierar-
chy. I firmly believe that it is
phony. No house is inher-
ently better or worse than an-
other. Every group of guys
or girls is awesome for their
own reasons. Again, my ex-
perience from last Saturday
night comes to mind. Stand-
ing back and looking at each
party from a distance, I real-
ized something. One W&L
party is pretty much like any
other. Put simply, each was
just a Washington and Lee
fraternity party. None was
identifiable by more than the
shape of the basement.
Avoid the tendency to buy
into that hierarchy. Sorry to
burst your bubble, but it ain’t
real.

So, in my humble and un-
knowing opinion, college is
about new experiences. It is
easy for Greeks to miss out
on some of them. Take my ad-
vice, don’t pigeonhole your-
self. Go make some new
memories.

W&L Mock Convention Parade

Downtown Lexington

Friday, January 30th at 10:30 a.m.

7 North Jefferson Street
463-3622

University
Cleaners

THE CLEANEST or TI-IE CLEAN.
CALL US FOR ALL or YOUR DRY CLEANING,
  LAUNDRY AND ALTERATIONS NEEDS

Great Service
First-Rate Quality

dry cleaning,
laundry, alterationsj

Submit
your

Quick Hits

to

anonymous

phi@wlu.edu

Happy Birthday, Erin!
Have a great one.

Your pals,
]B, KW, CA, MM, CK, KH, BTK,
KJL 86 THE REST OF THE PICA
CREW

Triple Nine Society
Founded 1978
Extraordinary camaraderie
in an
international society of peers.
99.9th percentile:
old SAT 1450, new SAT 1520,
GRE 1460, MAT 85;
see complete list at:
wvvw.tripienine.org

Torn James Company

Let us help you look and feel
Custom and Ready Made Suits

Shirts, pants, shoes and all accessories

Gi t Certi icates Available

Contact Adam Williams

C Adam.Williarns@tomjamesretail.com

Interviews?
Internship?
V Special occasion?

your best!!

and Sports Coats

Student Packages &

for an appointment or
with questions

540-815-4557

 

Her 8

THE “Elf

 

MEGANMORGAN
ARTS&LlFEEDl'lOR

mm m

ORD

MONDAY, JANUARY 19,2004

Students too quick to leave W&L, transfers all too common

No one ever said freshman year is easy.
There’s so much transition, away from parents,
away from the home you know, and away from
your comfort zone. As a freshman, we all had to
jump into the veritable wilderness that college is.
Some of us are more prepared than others, and we
all react to college in our own personal way. Most
students learn to embrace the freedom.
Most learn to cope with the changes.
But from time to time, some students
just decide to give up, pack it in, and
leave.

I’m very up—front about my feelings towards
transferring. The idea bothers me. So many times,
it’s done for the wrong reasons.

The one that really peeves me is the “relation-
ship—induced-transfer,” in which the guy orgirl
transfers back to a school closer to the significant
other. Doesn’t that idea make you want to vomit?
I have a problem with someone even considering
sacrificing their college experience, their well-
needed rite of passage, or even their future for a
high school relationship which will probably not
stand the course of time. Especially if that person
planned to leave a great school, and a great edu-
cation, to return to a random community college
to be with that special someone. Now maybe I’m
a pessimist. Maybe, in some cases, these rela-
tionships occasionally go the distance and things

 

work out for the best. But, honestly, if it’s a seri-
ous relationship, it makes sense that both people
can agree to handle the distance and not sacriﬁce
their chosen paths. To me, transferring for some-

one else seems like a cardinal sin.
Some people transfer for themselves. Maybe
they just don’t feel comfortable at the school
they’ve ended up at. We can

ABSOLUT FRATLORD_ all imagine cases like these.

If any true W&L frat lord were

TIM  ‘O4 at Swarthmore or Middlebury

or some other liberal haven, I
can certainly understand their desire to leave. Yet,
the idea of leaving still bothers me. Really, how
can you know, truly know, that it’s the wrong place,
if you don’t give it a chance? So many times, it
seems people are all too ready to call it quits with-
out even actually giving themselves a chance to
thrive in the exciting, new, unfamiliar situation
they’re in,

At W&L we do things differently than most
schools, so naturally the transferring issue is dif-
ferent as well. In Lexington, everything has a
Greek tinge, so it should come as no surprise that
the transferring issue can be somewhat of a Greek
issue." Consider the situation of a freshman guy
who wants so desperately to get into Fraternity
X, but for whatever reason, does not get a bid. In
the hurt feelings and confusion that follows, that

Athletes aggravated by P.E.

Hamill Jones has been an integral part of the
Washington and Lee men’s basketball team for four
years. But he might only get credit for one.

Jones, who says he did not realize he needed to
register for Intercollegiate Basketball after his fresh-
man year, will have to petition the Faculty Executive
Committee (FEC) in order to receive the customary
two—ﬁfths physical education credit for competing
on a intercollegiate team for at least two seasons.
The current P.E. system does not

  

Hampden-Sydney and Bridgewater College require
no physical education, others do have P.E. pro-
grams as part of their liberal arts curriculums. All
students at Centre and Roanoke College have to
take a Health and Human Performance course in
order to graduate. However, Roanoke’s student-
athletes are exempt from taking an additional P.E.

course, otherwise required for non-athletes.
Many W&L athletes say they should also re-
ceive exemptions from the P.E. pro-

reward students with credit past """"""""  """"""""" " gram because of their already strin-
two seasons of participation. gent commitments to intercollegiate
“I fully recognize I made a mis— ' TROITER athletics and the possibility of in-

 

take,”saidJones. “Butlspendsomuch
time year—round with basketball and school trying to deal
with fulﬁlling P.E. credits is ahassle.

“Athletes should get a P.E. credit for every
season he or she competes.” I

Jones is just one of many student—athletes
unhappy with W&L’s current P.E. curriculum.

According to the university’s catalog, “an [in-
tercollegiate] course may be repeated once giving
the student of a maximum of two terms credit for a
single sport. No more than four terms of credit will
be recognized for intercollegiate participation by
multiple sport athletes.” This means that one—sport
athletes must take three P.E. classes and two—sport
athletes must take one. All students must com-
plete ﬁve P.E. courses in order to graduate.

“I feel strongly that ﬁve [classes] is not that
much to ask,” said Director of Physical Education
Jan Hathom, who was a PE. major and two-sport
athlete in college. “I was exposed to other types of
P.E. because I was limited to [receiving only two
credits in college for intercollegiate participation]

W&L’s modem P.E. curriculum is, in part, a result
of the administration’s decision that eliminated subsi-
dized athletics in 1954. W&L instituted a PE. program
that was intended to supplant the student body’s
focus on major college athletics. Coaches were pro-
moted to faculty status and RE. classes became part
of the core general education requirement.

“There are many girls that only know how to
do certain things,” said Hathom. “This exposure
is positive for them and creates adequate partici-
pants from the classes they take.”

While many schools of W&L’s size such as

Q What was the hot news on the front page of a
1954 Wall Street Journal? Fish sticks, the “bone—

less oblongs roughly four inches long.” Ah, life in
simpler times T

 

Q Lalli says, “Our fraternity is the coolest. We
get all the chicks.”

Q Pledgeship needs to involve more wild ani-
mals, preferably from other continents.

Q Mary Baldwin has stand-up urinals for women.
Q Can I get a formal deﬁnition of a hook—up?

Q Has anyone else noticed the alarming number
of l0—year—olds working out in the gym?

Q -Way to go, Habitat! Change challenge was an
excellent idea.

“I think if you’re a varsity athlete [taking a
PE], it is stupid,” said Matt Fink, a three-year starter
at attack for W&L’s men’s lacrosse team and a mem-
ber of the Student Athlete Mentor Group (SAMS).
“The time spent practicing and playing a sport is
exponentially greater that what you’d do in PE.

“It puts athletes in risk of injury and if an athlete -

gets hurt, then the school shoots itself in the foot.”

Even though several students play more than
one sport on campus, those athletes still have to
take an additional P.E. course. This usually means
these athletes are forced to take a P.E. course in
addition to playing on a varsity squad.

Instead of lifting weights with her teammates
freshman year, Kelly Taffe-—a senior standout on
both the women’s lacrosse and ﬁeld hockey tearns—-
registered for weight training and lifted with her class
in order to complete the RE. requirement.

“It’s not  said Taffe. “I don’t think ath-
letes should have to take [P.E.] classes.”

"lherearesomethingsatthisschoolth.atarelor1g-


who directed the school’s PE. programlast year. I

“The P.E. program is one of them.”

O’Connell says that in correlation with the
upcoming review of the curriculum, the athletic
department will evaluate the current P.E. program.

“We understand that athletes are participat-
ing year-round and we’re looking at what the stu-
dent—athletes are putting into their sports and mak-
ing a change to help the student-atl1lete,” he said.
“We’ll look and see if the P.E. curriculum needs to
be rethought or modernized.”

Q Today is the 585th anniversary of Rouen sur-
rendering to Henry V making Normandy part of
England.

Q If you know anyone in Iowa, call them NOW
and tell them to attend the caucuses in support of
Dick Gephardt. Do your part to make Mock Con’s
prediction right.

Q Dirty grout makes me want to slit my wrists.

Q The fact that it’s a Louis Vuitton bag does not
justify wearing black shoes while carrying a brown
bag.

Q The Chic FX far surpasses the Mach 3 Turbo
in every possible way.

Q Seven of the undergraduate faculty have four
degrees and none have ﬁve, but two of the law
faculty do.

Q Ifit’s going to be so cold in Microbex, it should
at least snow so the winter weather isn’t so n1iser—
able.

Q Who was that random guy wearing a W&L
hat at the Three Doors Down concert?

Q Social hugging is wholly inappropriate. Social
kissing is even worse~— we’re not French, after all.
What’s wrong with a hearty handshake?

guy inevitably contemplates the beneﬁts of trans-
ferring and of leaving our “elitist” Greek system
behind.

Furthermore, the small size of our school can
make it tough to bear when someone’s skeletons
are dragged out of the closet. When seemingly
everyone in Lexington knows your deepest se-
crets and most embarrassing stories, running
away sure sounds like a good idea. Nothing is
worse than a student who has her most secret
stories broadcast in a very public way. A solu-
tion would seem to be transferring.

But is it? Is transferring really the answer?

I don’t think it is, and here’s why. Life isn’t
always as convenient as we want it to be. Things
are rarely perfect. If things were, then I’d be ac-
cepted into graduate studies at Harvard, on a fast-
track to becoming a history professor and even-
tually teaching right back here in Lexington. Un-
fortunately, things don’t always work out so eas-
ily. I have to work to achieve my goals. The
situation might not be the best, but that doesn’t
mean I should give up on myself.

And that’s why transferring bothers me. I
just can’t help it — it just seems like throwing up
the white ﬂag and saying “Alright, you win, I’m
just not cut out for it here.” It seems so much like
giving in to the situation, without even giving
yourself a chance.

Chris Jordan was a brother of my fraternity A

who graduated last year. Coming from the out-
skirts of Philly, I’ m not really sure he knew what to
expect at W&L. When he came to Lexington for
the ﬁrst time, it was the furthest south he had ever
been. Throughout his four years here, he kept
close ties with his girlfriend from home, even trav-
eling home on weekends from time to time to see
her. And once, on an Ultimate Frisbee trip to
Florida, he admitted to me that he never felt 100%
comfortable as a W&L student. He had contem-
plated transferring to a school closer to his home.
But Chris Jordan never gave in. W&L was not the
perfect school for him, but he stayed the course,

and now has a pretty cushy job in Atlanta. Who’s .

to say how things might have been different for
him had he transferred. Maybe things would be
better, maybe worse. But he never raised a white
flag, and that, to me, means a lot.

Inevitably we ﬁnd ourselves in uncomfortable
situations. Given the choice, we would never have
to deal with them, but unfortunately that choice is
not ours to make. All we can do as people is de-
cide how to react, how to respond to the situa-
tions we must face. And so, to all you W&L stu-
dents who are thinking about calling it quits, here’s
a message: whatever you decide, make it for the
right reasons, and stay true to yourself. Before
giving up, give yourself a chance.

HAZING

 

Gimme Veemies. These cadets look like they are really enjoying these hazing practices, would.n’t you?
The Virginia Military Institute has since put an end to such activity. We aren’t sure how or why a Phi-
tographer from years past was  pictures of this covert Virginia Military Institute activity. What We
do know is that \Washington and Lee freshman pledges should take note. It could be Worse. You could
have to wear a big red “VMI” on your front. Enjoy the rest of your pledgeship.

Q Mike Doyle was great, but Alice Steinbach was
better. I love you, Alice. Come back to me.

Q Ooh! The mayor of Boston is coming to speak
at Mock Con. Maybe we can hear what the police
are doing to get ready for the convention.

Q Is it just me, or is blood a lot darker when it
comes out in larger quantities?

Q Niceness is overrated. Honesty is more im-
portant.

Q Hey fraternities: Can we keep the sodomy and
bestiality out of Lip Sync this year?

Q More on Lip Sync: Who else is excited about
Thomas Worthy performing as emcee?

Q The art in Wﬂharns School this semester is a
huge improvement over last semester’s installation
and an even bigger one over the awful roof tar art
we were cursed with last year.

Q Is the inGeneral magazine ever going to pub-
lish? What are they doing with all the money they
received from the EC?

Q President Huntley was a terriﬁc speaker.

Q Elixirs peldgeship is going on. Watch out for
the monochrome outﬁts. ‘

Q The touch, the feel of cotton, the fabric of
our lives.

Q Style tip of the week: Store knit ties rolled up
lest they stretch out.

Q The Phi’s printer is about to celebrate its 10th
birthday. We hereby extend a heartfelt invitation to
all W&L students, especially the EC budget
allocators, to the party.

‘ Q Ansel Sanders just won a Celebrating Student

Success award for his work to save Spring Term.
What have you done to save oiir beloved Spring
Term?

Q Lexington Coffee Shop’s days are numbered. 4

The Daily Grind is fantastic. The Peppermint Latte
and Caramello are especially good. Thanks a “latte”
for moving into Microl_.ex.

Q J eb Brooks lost his blue North Face ﬂeece be-
tween the Pole Houses and Kappa Sig, but is hesi-
tant to publish a Campus Notice. If you find it, call
x4060 or e—mail br0oksj@wlu.edu.

Q To the person who spit on the ﬂoor in the Com-
mons: That’s nasty.

Q Writing these is harder than it seems. Submit
your anonymous Quick Hits to phi@wlu.edu,

Y}

 

 

posters
I

 

  

4.4

  

BY KAI-LIA HARMON
 snxrrwxnnr

Buzz about the upcoming Mock Convention has ~

reached a feverish pitch as delegations begin to see
results of their predictions.

The D.C. delegation got the ball rolling with their
prediction of the January 13”‘ non-binding primary.
Although their numbers were not exact, the
delegation did accurately predict that Dean would
come out on top, with Sharpton coming in second

(and Braun taking third.

D.C. state chair Celia Landgren said that overall, the
delegation was pleased with the outcome of the primary
but admitted that they were “a little bummed” about their
numbers being wrong.

g Landgren also said that they have room to alter
the prediction their prediction at the convention
because D.C.’s official primary isn’t until February 14"‘
and the results of New Hampshire’s primary on
Tuesday could change the way voters swing next

(month. .

“There will be a research room set up at the
convention and we’re prepared to make changes up to
the last second” said Landgren.

The Iowa delegation didn’t see the same success. Its

‘(prediction was that Dick Gephardt would win the state but
last Monday‘s caucus ended with Kerry taking the win
and Gephardt dropping out of the race entirely.

Regardless, state chair Gregory Papeika said that
they made the best prediction based on the

‘information they had. Their research indicated

 

“every political pundit had Dean winning the

caucuses... Gephardt had extensive campaign"

organizations out there, and that is usually what won
it in the past.” '

Students who worked to predict the outcome of the
Iowa caucus were ultimately incorrect. Although the Iowa
prediction was a bit disheartening it is by no means an
indication of the ultimate results of this weekend’s
convention. .

New Hampshire state chair Justine Sessions is
more that confident that her state's prediction will be
correct and that the ultimate prediction of the
convention will be correct as well.

New Hampshire’s primary takes place this
Tuesday and she is anticipating the results. “ I’m
actually really excited. We have a solid understanding
of who's going to win.” The delegation is also
prepared with a prediction of who will take second
and third. ‘

As far as the impact that New Hamshire’s
prediction will make on the convention as a whole,
Sessions said, “Its very important for us to get it
right for the morale of the convention [but] even if
we get New Hampshire wrong it doesn’t mean we’ll
get the actual nomination wrong [at the
convention]”.

As for the rest of the states, everyone is getting in
their last bit of research together and preparing to make
their predictions this weekend. It has been a really tight
race so far and clearly its only going to get more interesting
from here. As Celia Landgren said “Who knows things
will turn out?”

 

P1-11

' “F

m.

SPECIAL MOCK CONVENTION EDITION or
Wnsnnxroron AND Ln: UNIVERSITYJ

The student we of Washington and Lee Urzioersity since 189.

‘Students work topredict outcomes o

/02‘ /3

, VoLUrv1ECV,NoXlV ,
I MONDAY,JANUARY7.6,203‘l1;.

f primaries nationwide

 EB Bsooxs / THERAYG-ii-iii;/1

Mock Convention’s Top Brass. Memorabilia Chairman Rene Louapre confers with General Chairman Noah Rhodes.

University’s Mock Convention claims rich history, manytraditions, much drama

The convention gained national attention in 1924 when it accurately
predicted that John W. Davis, a W&L alumnus and former U.S. Congress-
man from West Virgina who was not even a declared candidate, would win

BY MEGAN MORGAN
ms AND LIFE EDITOR

As the 2004 Washington and Lee Mock Convent-ion approaches,
’ one has to wonder what all the pomp and excitement is about. Why has
so much money and time been devoted to what is in many ways essen-

tially an academic exercise?

To understand the importance of Mock Convention, one must realize
that it is an engrained part of the history of Washington and Lee, leaving-

.~ a lasting influence on the campus and its students.

The first Mock Convention took place in May of 1908 when an upcom-
ing visit by William Jennings Bryan, a frontrunner for the presidency,
prompted the students to stage a replica of the upcoming Democratic Na-

tional Convention.

V Students divided into two camps, one backing Bryan and the other
backing Governor John A. Johnson of Minnesota. Students did their best
to replicate the actual national convention, and became so engaged and
debate became so heated that fistfights broke out on the ﬂoor of the con-
vention. However, Bryan finally won the W&L nomination and went on to

I win the Democratic National Convention nomination that summer.

‘T-shirts, tumblers,
available

BY ERIN JULIUS
NEWS EDITOR

Rene Albert Lguapre has worked hard this year to ensure that
Washington and Lee students will have lovely mementos with which to

3 remember Mock Convention.

Students should be eager to purchase the Mock Convention
packages because, “it’s nice to «have these posters and T-shirts and
glasses years from now,” said Louapre, “they’re keepsakes, like Hallmark

cards.”

‘U According to Mock Convention General Chairman Noah Rhodes,
Louapre is perfect for the Memorabilia Chairship because he could, “sell
ice to eskimos...he’ll make a great used car salesman someday.”

The Mock Convention packages, which include a T-shirt, poster,
glass and button cost $20 and went on sale Thursday. Optional Mock

‘Convention playing cards are also available. Packages will be for sale in
the Commons until supplies run out. Delegates will also receive white

hats at the door of the Convention.

The design on the T-shirt and poster features nine of the original
Democratic candidates. It came from a political cartoon found in a
Charleston publication. A Washington and Lee alum, Alex Stene, got the
rights to the cartoon and helped to put the package together.

in-

the Democratic nomination at the national convention.
Often times the convention can be very divided and contentious, as
was the case in 1936. The convention was evenly split between Alfred

Landon, Governor of Kansas and Senator Arthur Vandenburg. It came

down to the Pennsylvania delegates who were also deadlocked. Finally a
missing Pennsylvania delegate w—as.brou.ght in fromvth-e-tennis courts and

broke the tie, giving the nomination to Arthur Vandenberg. Unfortunately,

Landon.

he withdrew before the actual convention and the nomination went to

In 1956, a tragic death overshadowed the festivities of the conven-

tion. The keynote speaker for the convention was Senator and former Vice

BY E1uN]UuUs
Nrws Eorror

Fiery political commentator
James Carville visits campus this
weekend as the keynote speaker
for the 2004 Mock Convention.
Carville’s speech will be Saturday
morning at 10 a.m.

“I have no doubt that he’ll
get students excited about the
Mock Convention and the up-
coming elections,” said Speakers
chair Anne Idsal, “He’s known as
the ‘Ragin’ Cajun’ as he’s from
Louisiana and is famous for his
fast, colorful talking.”

Carville, perhaps America’s
best-known political consultant,
broke into the political limelight
when his consulting firm, Carville
& Begala, helped elect President
Clinton in 1992.

James Carville

Carville then starred in Presi-
dent Bill Clinton’s campaign
documentary “The War Room”
and is one of the left-leaning co-
hosts of CNN’s Crossfirewhere

      

President Alben Barkley of Kentucky. Standing on a podium in 90 degree
weather he gave a rousing speech to the W&L convention in which he
declared that he had not originally planned to go the National Democratic
Convention that summer but that “like an old firehouse when he hears the
bell”, the W&L convention had persuaded him to go. However at the end
of his speech as the crowds clapped, the Senator stepped back from the

he debates the hot political is-
sues of the day.‘ ,

Carville serves as a Mock
Convention 2004 Advisory Board
member. The Advisory Board
lends invauable help and assis-
tance‘.

Washington and Lee alumnus
Jim Davis, a Democratic Congress-
man from Florida, “went out of his
way to fit Mock Convention into his
schedule,” said Idsal. Davis will kick
off the Mock Convention weekend
with his speech

h

Thomas Menino

Thursday night at 5:30 in Lee
Chapel.
Davis is going to speak about,

podium and collapsed. He was shortly declared dead from a heart attack.
The convention came to a halt and was only resumed when Barkley’s
widow forced the students to continue stating “You have unfinished busi-

ness.”

Since 1948, the W&L convention has accurately predicted the party
nominee all but one time. The one error occurred in 1972 when the del-
egates selected Edward Kennedy instead of George McGovern as the
Democratic candidate. The keynote speaker for that convention was Jimmy
Carter, then Governor of Georgia. However, his speech must not have
been too rousing as his press-secretary did not even attend the speech.
instead spending the day playing pinball and drinking at a restaurant on

Main Street.

In recent years, the Washington and Lee convention has become a
necessary stop for political leaders. Speakers at the Spring Kickoff and

Gingrich.

I the Convention include Jesse Jackson, Jack Kemp, Lamar Alexander,
Michael Dukakis, Bill Clinton, Barry Goldwater, Haley Barbour and Newt .

- Q
Bill Clinton even played his saxophone at an off-campus party.
As the 2004 convention approaches, new stories will be added to the
continuing history of this important W&L tradition.

Consumer Protection; Environ-
ment and Hazardous Materials;
and Oversight and Investiga-
tions.

Davis is also a national co-chair

 

John Dalton

of the New Democrat Coalition,
which is a group of 75 moderate
House Democrats promoting bipar-
tisan solutions.

South Carolina Democratic
Representative James Clyburn,
former Navy Secretary John
Dalton, Boston Mayor Thomas
Menino, Democratic activist
Ronnie Dugger, Mississippi
Democratic Representative Gene

“his own political t Taylor and
career, W&Lexpe— 4 f o r m e r
rience, and his 5p€al<6I$W€r6V€fY<%g€ft03tt€I1d,b9S6d Oklahoma
Mock Convention S0161 u nthe umtion our S e n at o r
. .. . Y P0 “P .
experience, said M Ock Conventionhas D a V 1 d
Idsal. Boren are
Davis was ANNEIDSAL also lined
lected ‘to Con- SPEAKERS CHAIR up as
gress 111 1996 speakers.

and serves on

the House Energy and Commerce
Committee, the Subcommittee on
Telecommunications and the
Internet, Commerce, Trade, and

“ T h e
speakers will be addressing the sig-
nificance of the upcoming elec-
tions, endorsing particular candi-
dates, and commenting upon our

  

National ﬁgures to address Mock Con

timely and unique tradition," said i

Idsal.. _ _

_, «.\v~.,r

Menino, as the mayor of‘

Boston, is running the host city

of the actual Democratic Con-:2:
The Democratic Na-v ‘

vention.

tional Convention will take
place in Boston July 26 - July 29..
2004

“Speakers were very eager to
attend, based solely upon the _.
reputation our Mock Convention
has,” said Idsal.

 

Senator Boren

 

James Clybum .

 

  

  

J _ Q. Lﬁvtéii. tad 
W .‘ ' 3;»  

PAGEJAWN’ 3‘il’

NEWS

_;-5-.=.li;=\r>'n;.»s.l*.-is

MONDAY, JANUARY 26, 2004

Students work hard for success of W&L Mock Convention

Cameron arranges accomodations for all of Convention ’s speakers, Jared workes to ensure Mock Convention Journal contains memories

Cameron Billups

Cameron Billups has been playing an un-
recognized but completely essential role in
Mock Convention.

As Accommodations Chair, she is respon-
sible not only for contacting every speaker or
notable person involved at Mock Convention
but also arranging“ travel and hotel accom-
modations for all, organized around their in-
dividual schedules. She has been working in
this position since Al Sharpton spoke during
Spring Kickoff last year. ‘

Though not particularly political, Billups
wanted to make sure to get heavily involved
with Mock Convention and has a positive out-
look towards the experience.

She said that planning for events such
as parties has always held somewhat of a spe-
cial interest for her, so the position fit her
well.

Aside from last year’s events , her job has
not been excessively busy until prior to Win-
ter Break, when things became extremely
stressful. Billups must literally plan each
speakers’ visit down to the minute in order to
maintain a steady flow with consideration to
both their needs and their speaking time.

To help her with this massive feat is a
staff of people that she said she c_ouldn’t do
without. Cameron also mentioned Professor
Connelly as a large source of help for her and
several others.

In addition to her full course load, Cameron
is currently working 7-8 hours a day getting
the final arrangements ready

She saidishe “doesn’t have time to be
nervous yet." Though her life right now is
very hectic, she continuously mentioned the
excess of people that were also behind the
scenes, working just as hard if not harder, as
she.

Jared Harrison

Among the many people who have spent
countless hours working behind the scenes is jun-
ior Jared Harrison.

Jared is the Editor-in—Chief, or Journal Chair, of
the Mock Convention program, The Journal. Th e

STEVE MARINOS / TI-ERING-TUMPHI

Mock Convention Movers and Shakers. In keeping with our special Mock Convention edition, 77JeP/ii chose two Mock Convention chairs, Cameron Billups and
Jared Harrison, to be this week’s Hidden Heroes. Cameron is the Accomodations Chair whilejared serves as Editor—in—Chief for the Convention’s]oumal.

the speakers, biographies, and more. Everyone re-
ceives a copy during Mock Convention.

As a politics/journalism double major,
heading this project was a per-
fect job for Jared, encapsulat-
ing both aspects of his educa-
tion. .

Over a year ago, Jared went
through a vigorous interview
process to get his position. He said that he
wanted to get involved with Mock Convention
because of its obvious correlation with his fu-
ture plans, as well the fact that he really had a
drive to help with the Convention.

 
 

HIDDEN HEROES
JORDAN ANDERsoN’07

ing the efforts of his staff while actively en-
gaging and overseeing the production of all
aspects of The Journal.

He also personally
worked on obtaining ad
space for companies and
helped in raising the money
for the program.

Hours of research
were required to gather data for the biogra-
phies, as well as tedious preparation on de-
signing the layout.

Using only previous Mock Convention
Journals and a massive guidebook only re-

coworkers had to operate based on their own
skills and judgment in designing and writing
one of the most integral parts of Mock Con-
vention.

When asked if he had enjoyed his work, he
replied simply, “yes”. '

Jared also seemed a bit excited that it would
be over soon.

Jared is grateful for the invaluable experi-
ence that working on a project like Mock Con-
vention gave him.

Additionally, Jared said that having the
opportunity to work with all of the people in-
volved with Mock Convention has built some

   
   

 

Journal is a 50+ page comprehensive booklet of all

W&L Professor awarded a Fulbright Grant

Harnpden H. Smith, a W&L professor for 30 years,_has been
awarded a Fulbright Grant to teach in Eastern Europe this winter and
spring as a Fulbright lecturer. Smith is also the former head of the
journalism and mass communications department. He is now in
phased retirement. '

He will be lecturing in several areas of journalism at the
University of Tirana, Albania’s capital. Topics include reporting,
journalism ethics, editing and design for print publications and
developing news sites on the Web.

This is Srnith’s third Fulbright award. He taught at Moscow

State University in 1992 and at the American University in Bulgaria
in 1995-96. A

Corrections

In the General Notes section of the Ring—tum Phi, we incor-
rectly stated that- there has been a rash of recent thefts in the Wil-
liams School. Actually,’ laptops have been vanishing from the law
school. Please contact University Security if you see any suspi-
cious activity on campus. I

In last week’s Hidden Hero feature, the Ring—tum Phi incorrectly
attributed all credit for the Cystic Fibrosis charity ball to Juliarme
Shelley and Kristin Crawford. In reality, the event is being put to-
gether by a committee of 37 people. Keep reading for future updates
about the event to be held later this year.

Harrison’s responsibilities include direct-

Need a rest from
A everyday life?

Treat yourself to a
luxurious full body massage by

 H 31" 1" 115', BA, CMT

Certified Massage Therapist
Board of Nursing Certiﬁed
13 Years Experience

Gift Certificates Make
Great Valentine’s Presents!

(540) 264-0063

 

ferred to as “The Bible”, Jared and all of his

great friendships.

Students say this year’s choice may be hardest

BY KYLE \X/Ass
A_ssocrA'n3 EDITOR

As primaries loom, Mock Convention 2004 is shaping up
differently from previous years, so we may see some different
outcomes. Over the past 30 years, Mock Convention has
seen some gradual changes, for instance,
the “presidential nominating process be-
came much more plebiscitary, that is, more
primary and caucus dominated, much
more media—dominated, and much more
volatile,” said politics professor William
Connelly. /

To accommodate the changing politi-
cal scene, Washington and Lee’s Mock
Convention has been moved earlier and
earlier in the year, from May to the end of
January.

Veteran Mock Convention participant Alexander Wilkins
said, “I can say for sure, along with everyone else, that this
year’s prediction presents a greater challenge” than the 2000
Republican Mock Convention. However, “most of the details
[are] usually coming together at the very last minute,” and
“this year is no exception,” according to 2000 W&L graduate
and New Hampshire State Chair Kristen Binette.

 

The Mock Convention delegations are working hard on
their research, but it seems the issue of the moment is the
incorrect prediction of the Iowa delegation.

Connelly said that “no pundit accurately predicted the
Iowa results in advance, [and] as a political scientist might
say, [there were] too many variables.”

Binette agreed, and said “I don’t
think many professional pundits could
have predicted the Iowa results.”

An unnamed source ventured to say
that the Iowa delegation used a differ-
ent approach to their research than other
states did — one that would either be in-
credibly accurate or terribly wrong. It is
likely, then, that other states will be
checking, double—checking, and second-
guessing their research up until the last
minute, said Wilkins.

Aside from the Iowa delegation’s incorrect prediction,
Binette believes that “Justine Sessions will turn things
around, correctly projecting the New Hampshire results and
setting the tone for the overall convention.” In the week
remaining before Washington and Lee’s 2004 Mock Conven-
tion, Connelly said “if anyone can predict the nominee of
January 30-31, it will be our Mock Convention students.”

Mock Convention
. - January 30 86 31

  

WE CAN DO IT!

Repairs ~ Contacts
COOL FRAMES!
HOT LENSES!
SHADES!

rleesiew oeruciiesis

20 years serving Rockbridge
at 203 N. Main Street, Lexington
463-7440

A Bar A‘ Ranch:
Spend a summer in Wyoming

Spend your summer in Wyoming on one of
America’s best guest ranches. Now hiring for June
1 - September 11 and June 1 - September 25.
Check our staff web site at www.coo1works.corn/
abara for details, or call Bob or Margie Howe,
Managers, at 303-838-1950. Bob Howe will be
on campus February 4. You can set up an inter-
view on e-recruiting. No need to post a resume;
you can bring it to the interview.

 

309 N. lVlaj_r1 St.
LeXi_rigt:on, \,/A 24450

.7

I

 

MONDAY, JANUARY 26, 2004

S 
TAFF EDITORIAL

1980 Phi staff
takes a look at Mock Con.

For at least two days this weekend
the Washington andLee community will
be immersed in another world. Atten-
tion will be focused on little Lexington,
Virginia, to see the results of the 1980
Republican Mock Convention.

Much of this attention will come
from the media and it should be focused
on the proceeding of the actual conven-
tion, not the behavior of the students of
Washington and Lee. Lest the writer be
criticized for acting like an old maid, or
for being more paranoid than a father
sending his daughter out on her ﬁrst date,
which happens to be at a fraternity party,
let some examples of W&L students’
behavior in years past be recalled.

In 1960 Harry Truman was pelted
with various objects, from oranges to
beer cans, while people chanted “Give
‘em hell Harry.” Though John F.
Kennedy was nominated that year, the
conduct of W&L students nearly re-
ceived as much press as the actual
outcom of the convention. And not too
long ago an overzealous W&L lacrosse
fan saw it ﬁt to dump a drink on the Navy
lacrosse coach’s wife. Even more re-
cently a large crowd listening to a band
in the old gym during a big weekend was
stunned when one W&L student
smashed a bottle over another’s face.

We hope that no such unfortunate in-
cidents will occur this weekend, the
Mock Convention Steering Committee
has put a lot of time and thought into plan-
ning the latest edition of the Convention.
So remember, no matter how much you
celebrate this weekend, have a good time,
but don’t do something you will regret
when you see it on the evening news.

~Reprinted from the May 8, 1980 edi-
tion of the Ring—tum Phi.

Tia i+°{s~t<;~riat 

CALEYANDHEON
OPINIOl\5EDl10R

EMAi;ANDEiEoi\t@wiiiEi)ii

PINIONS

Clark best equipped for the White House

PAGE 3

PHOTO COURTESY OF

GENERAL AND PRESIDENT? Wesley Clark was a successful NATO Commander and Brigadier General, but does he have what it takes to get to the White House?

 
      
 

35:‘

,g%  of the Wee

“Iranians never allow dictators to
decide for them.”

 

-Fatemeh Haqiqatjoii,anliariianrnocleiate,on

A the disqualiﬁation of moderate candidates by

Iian’shaitl-lirielegislatiire. Shealorigwithmany
otherIianians,will likely boycott theelectiori

 

ii E-= Ux2va:<:*:r P

Editorin chief Jeb Brooks
Assistant Editor Kyle Wass
News Editor E1-in Julius
Opinions Editor Caley Anderson
Asst. Opinions Editor Anne Finley
Arts & Life Editor Megan Morgan
Asst. Arts & Life Editor Chris Lauder-man
Photography Editor Cody Gabbard
Asst. Sports Editors John Hyland

Chad Kiewiet de Jonge
Emily Edwards
Kelly J o Larsen
Alexa Moutevalis
Kate Zawyrucha
Sarah Beth Campbell
Vanessa Arness
Aubrey Miner

Production Assistants

Copy Editors

Paul Seifert
David Seifert
Henry Grimball
Stuart Presnell
Thomas Worthy

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee Univer-
sity, Lexington, Virginia. The Ring—tum Phi is a member of
The Publications Board, but is otherwise independent

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible sub-
missions and letters. All submissions must be e—mailed
to phi@wlu.edu or in the University Center mailbox by
5 p.m. Friday to appear in the following weel(’s edition.
The Ring—tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions
for content and length. Letters and columns do not
necessarily reflect the opinion of The Ring—tum Phi
Editorial Board. Advertising does not reﬂect the opin-
ions of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper
observes current court deﬁnitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
University Common; Room. 341
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Telephone: (540) 458-4060
Fax: (540) 458-4059
Email: phi@wlu.edu
Subscription rate $40

Business Manager
Asst. Business Mgr
Circulation Director
Asst. Circulation Dir
Distribution Dir

General Wesley Clark, as of this writing, is ﬁght-
ing for second place in the running for the Demo-
cratic nomination with Howard Dean and John
Edwards, all of whom trail John Kerry. Neverthe-
less, I believe that General Clark is not only the
best man among the Democratic candidates for
President, he is the best equipped to defeat Presi-
dent Bush in the general election.

Clark has been often accused of being the most
right-leaning of all the Dems still
in the running. Democratic hard-
liners think he’s too much of a
moderate to earn the nomination,
and prefer more liberal candidates
like Dean. But it is precisely this strength, of course,
that makes him most likely to defeat Biish. What
the Democratic party does not need is a repeat of
1984 when Walter Mondale, a highly leftist candi-
date, was blown out of the water by Ronald Reagan,
who was as far to the right as Mondale was to the
left. ,

What I, a moderate Democrat, would prefer to
see is a repeat of 1992, when another moderate
Democrat, namely Clinton, stepped in to take the
reins from a semi-bumbling Republican president.
And, of course, while I had a good deal of respect
for Bill Clinton’s administrative abilities, I had little
for his personal morality. Clark, though he doesn’t
have the thorough liberalist credentials that Clinton
had, does have much stronger integrity.

   

Mo15ERAiE’s Mme
CALEY 1l\pERsoN ‘O6

Clark is a man of strong character. He’s‘

certainly not a draft dodger, unlike Clinton,
who used inside connections to avoid mili-
tary service, and unlike Bush, who conve-
niently “lucked out” into the National Guard
(and went AWOL even from that). On the
contrary, he was promoted several times on
the field in Vietnam for valor and uncommon
command skill.

The biggest strike against Clark
is probably that he doesn’t have
a long history with the Demo-
cratic Party; he joined the Demo-
cratic party very recently, and in
fact had to be persuaded to become a candidate.
But is this really any criteria by which to judge
him? I’ve never been a huge fan of the party
apparatus anyway, for either Republicans or
Democrats. '

The only "thing that could be seen as poten-
tially troubling is the view that Clark is an oppor-
tunist who joined the party only for the potential-
ity of becoming President. This is possible, and
certainly a run at the White House might have
inﬂuenced Clark’s decision, but a look at Clark’s
voting records shows you that he has consis-
tently voted on the Democratic side of quite a few
issues- he’s pro-choice, a strong gun control ad-

vocate, and a supporter of social services like wel— -

fare and social security.

Economically, "he is a bit more conservative
than the other candidates, preferring a somewhat
less cautious tax cut and a very cautious federal
spending policy, but who’s to say that these are
negatives? He’s more a moderate than he is a
Republican or Democrat, and I like those candi-
dates that blur the line between the parties, such
as Clark (or certain Austrian—bom state gover-
nors).

The other obvious advantage that this
moderatism gives him is that it makes him more
likely to defeat President Bush. There are, in fact,
many Republicans who would support Clark rather
than Bush, mostly due to Bush’s reckless Federal
spending. In a bit of irony, Clark’s proposed
spending program is more conservative than
Bush’s has been to this point. The “Draft Clark”
movement featured a GOP wing that numbered in
the thousands of active supporters, an astonish-
ing number for a grassroots candidate recruitment
effort.

Clark is a good man, a man of principle, and a
proven effective leader. His politics mix liberal con-
cern for social issues with conservative ideas about
spending and economics. His moderate status
makes him appealing to both Republicans and

0 Democrats as a replacement for Bush’s antics, and

if he pullsahead of Kerry and the rest of the group,
the Republican part will have a hard time ﬁghting
him off.

A random sample of
39 students were asked

“How would you describe your political orientation?”

Conservative- 56%
Liberal- 22%
Moderate- 22%

97% Conﬁdence
+/- 5% Margin of Error

Mock Con will make correct prediction

, Last Monday night, as the reports from the Iowa caucuses started to roll
in, those of us who had been part of making the Iowa decision were, to say the
least, a bit disheartened. Our pick had been Gephardt, Dean, Kerry then
Edwards. The numbers came back Keny, Edwards, Dean, Gephardt and it
seemed that we couldn’t have been more wrong. However, more sober reﬂec—
tion has left me rather sanguine about the Iowa results and very conﬁdent in
our ability to correctly predict the nominee.

Caucuses anywhere, and especially the Iowa caucuses, are notoriously
hard to predict. Steve Forbes’ strong second—place ﬁnish in
2000 and Pat Buchanan’s equally strong second—place ﬁn-
ish in 1996 were both relatively unforseen. The unusual
nature of the system makes polling data in more conven-
tional years very unreliable and, as such, those of us who
made the decision discounted Senator Kerry and Edwards’ late surge. In-state
contacts and historical analysis had all stressed the importance of organiza-
tion over a candidate’s standing the polls.

Congressman Gephardt, in particular, was noted for having a strong orga-
nization built on the unions that had endorsed him. Iowa has an unusually

 

high union population and in all the previous caucuses, for example, Con— I

gressman Gephardt’s first win in Iowa in 1988, the candidate who had the
strongest union support was a strong ﬁnisher, if not the outright winner.

Similarly, Governor Dean had built an impressive organization of young
activists and college students. He also had recruited an army of “Deaniacs”
from out-of—state who came into the Hawkeye State to drive people to the
caucus sites, distribute campaign literature and generally agitate for their cho-
sen candidate.

In the end, though, the momentum that Senators Kerry and Edwards built
up in the closing weeks before the caucuses proved to be more important than
the organizations that Gephardt and Dean had built in the previous two years.
Two factors, more than anything else, can be credited with this unexpected
reversal of fortune.

Firstly, turnout was higher than expected. Even the highest estimates
only predicted 120,000 caucus—goers. Turnout in 2000 was only 61,000, but
this time, nearly 123,000 people attended the caucuses. With so many deter-
mined to attend the caucuses without the help of the union turnout machines,
the people who were recently motivated to vote for Kerry and Edwards easily
overwhelmed the carefully built organizations of Dean and Gephardt. Gephardt

RIGHT or THE AisLE
Br<ErrKiRwAN‘O4

had 12,000 committed voters going into caucus night and about 13,000 people
ended up supporting him in the caucuses. In a year with more regular turnout,
these enthusiastic supporters would have been a good base on which to
build a victory. Unfortunately for the congressman, they were overwhehned
by an unexpected tide of Kerry/Edwards voters who prevented Gephardt
from reaching the viability threshold of 15% in most of the caucus sites.

Secondly, the discovery of Saddam Hussein and the decided upswing in
the economy had convinced many Democratic caucus-goers that electability,
_ not anti—Bush vitriol was more important in a candidate. Ever
since Saddam was pulled out of his spider hole, support for
the former Vermont governor had been slipping. Kerry and
Edwards presented calmer portraits of an experienced, patri-
cian, reliable legislator and a fresh-faced, energetic, Southern
son of a mill worker, respectively. Both portraits were more attractive to
Democrats whose focus had changed from finding the candidate who best
expressed their intense displeasure with the president to ﬁnding the candi-
date who was best equipped to send the president to his Crawford, Texas
ranch.

Finally, we were not alone in making the wrong prediction. Few pundits
believed that Kerry or Edwards could overcome the organizational advan-
tages that Dean and Gephardt had amassed. We were in good company in
picking the wrong candidate.

But whatever our failings may have been in making an Iowa prediction,
Mock Con is equipped like few other organizations to correctly predict the
nominee. While other groups and pundits have been focusing on each pri-
mary contest as it happens, Mock Convention can boast the resources of 55
delegation chairs who have been single-mindedly focusing on the primaries
in their state or territory for an entire year. Since the nominating contest will
almost certainly extend well into February and possibly into March, other
handicappers are handicapped because they have been only focusing on
Iowa and New Hampshire. Mock Convention’s research has contacts across
the nation and has surveyed the political winds in every state. When other
predictors look ahead, contests much beyond the “Sophomore Seven” prima-
ries will be nigh inscrutable. Mock Convention, on the other hand, has al-
ready done research in states far over the horizon.

Look forward to Mock Convention continuing its tradition of accuracy
this weekend.

 

 

till

John Kerry

Aforrner Vice-Governor ofMassachusetts and current Senator from that
state, John Kerry is the current favorite to win the Democratic nomination
Kerry is running on a fairly solid hberal platfonn that includes strong support
for ﬂee trade issues. Kerrybears no ill-will towards any ofhis fellow candidates,
with the notable exception of Howard Dean, for whom he has repeatedly
shown an open and pointed dislike. This probably stems ﬁom the Dean
campaign’s early snide dismissal of Kerry as the “anointed one.” Though
harsh, this comment does carry a grain of truth- Kerry’s biggest weakness is
hisreserved,patriciandemeanor. HeisnotasenergeticasDean, andnotas
closelyintouchwiththepeople asJohnEdwards. Still, heremainsthemanto
beat in New Hampshire and in the race overall. Polled against President Bush
in ahypothetical one on one matchup, he led 49% to 46%, though there was a
3°/orrm'ginoferror. Caley’s oddstowin- 2:1

Howard Dean

Dean, the former governor of Vermont, was considered by many
to be the most likely candidate at the start of the race, but things
haven’t quite gone his way. He is seen by many as too liberal to
defeat President Bush (many Republicans supported him in the hope
of having an easy target). After ﬁnishing a distant third in Iowa,
Dean suffered from what some call his “Mad How” disease, giving a
wild and chaotic speech to his supporters promising victory in New
Hampshire and elsewhere. Still, this is exemplary of his biggest
strength- his ﬁery and aggressive personality. Dean’s energy for
campaigning and strong grassroots support, cultivated primarily
through the Internet, will make him a formidable foe to defeat despite
his various gaffes. Caley’s odds to win— 4:1

eeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeee   Oi3iN1oNs

in Business:



 

MONDAY, JANUARY 26, 2004

An ex-four star General and commander of NATO, Clark
is often described as a conservative Democrat. While not
the most popular within the party, Clark enjoys the highest
support from moderates and Republicans, and is currently
the candidate with the highest polls against President Bush,
polling a 52% to 48% against him. Though Clark supports
liberal social reform and foreign policy, he is largely a fiscal
conservative. He believes Dean and Kerry are too liberal to
earn the respect ofthe majority ofAmerican moderates, and
bills himself as the compromise candidate for both Demo-
crats and Republicans who are tired of Bush. Caley’s odds
to win- 2: 1.

John Edwards

A senator from North Carolina, Edwards is the youngest of all
the candidates. Viewed by some as the “renegade kid” of the Demo-
cratic race, Edwards’ strengths lie in his solid people skills, his middle-
class roots, and his exceptional public speaking. Especially popular
among southern Democrats, Edwards’ biggest point is his criticism
of postwar mismanagement of Iraq, especially what he calls “war
profrteering” by price—gouging companies such as Halliburton in the
aftermath of the armed conflict. Though Edwards may or may not
win in New Hampshire, he expects to have his strongest showings in
South Carolina and Missouri, now that Gephardt, a Missouri native,
has dropped out of the race. Caley’s odds to win- 3:1

The Democrats ﬁght it out

Wesley Clark Joesph Lieberman

A Connecticut senator, Lieberman is one of the first successful
national candidates to be Jewish. His poor showing so far probably
has to do with his association with the 2000 Gore campaign, where he
ran as the defeated Vice President. Liebern1an’s platform falls in with
Kerry and Dean as very liberal, but Lieberman lacks the organiza-
tional support of either. He is also somewhat unpopular among
younger voters for his outspoken criticism of violent media. Caley’s
odds to win- 20:1

Al Sharpton

Al Sharpton acknowledged that he has almost no chance at all
of winning the nomination, but says that he is remaining in the race
to raise awareness of minority issues. He is an extreme liberal, like
Kucinich, and polls higher than the Ohioan in some areas, but other-
wise is acknowledged as the last-place runner in the Democratic
race. Caley’s odds to win- 70:1

Dennis Kucinich

- Kucinich has little chance of winning; he is an extreme leﬂist
who wants to abandon Iraq, notable in the past only for his Congres-
sional experience and his stint as Mayor of Cleveland, where he did
not enjoy widespread popular support. Though he received only
1% of the Iowa caucuses’ support, he remains in the race, and says
he expects that he will eventually recover. Polls across the country
say otherwise; he actually polls lower than Sharpton in some loca-
tions. Caley’s odds to win— 70:1

Letters to the Editor

SFHB ex/sis fora reason

Dear Editor:

After reading Mr. Anderson’s editorial
entitled “Rape Must Be Treated As Honor
Violation,” I was concerned that many ofthe
sentiments he expressed resulted from com-
mon misconceptions about the judicial pro-
cess for issues of sexual misconduct. While
I agree with Mr. Anderson, that rape is a
severe breach of the standards of honor for
our community, I maintain that the Student-
Faculty Hearing Board, which is charged
with hearing cases of discrimination and
hazing, as well as sexual misconduct, is a
better way to adjudicate such cases.

In the 1980s, Executive Committee mem-
bers asked that a separate judicial body be
created to adjudicate cases of sexual mis-
conduct, resulting in the creation of what is
now the SFHB. The reasoning was that this
judicial board could undergo special train-
ing to handle these very emotional cases in
a more effective manner, since these student
leaders found it very difficult to deal with
these cases using the same process as Ex-
ecutive Committee hearings. While the EC
no longer hears cases of sexual misconduct,
it nominates students to the SFHB, which is
one way that the body charged with main-
taining our honor system retains ties to the
SFHB.

Mr. Anderson also incorrectly implies
that SFHB sanctions are going to be less

stringent than the single sanction that Ex-
ecutive Committee members must impose on
the guilty. This, in fact, is not the case.
The SFHB may impose any sanctions avail-
able to any of the otherjudicial bodies. In
fact, the Student Handbook clearly states
that “forced sexual intercourse will be sanc-
tioned by dismissal from the University,”
giving the SFHB both the authority and the
obligation to remove those who have com-
mitted this egregious violation of honor
from our community. Rape, in the form of
forced sexual intercourse, is sanctioned by
the same single-sanction as honor cases.
The possibility of the SFHB assigning other
sanctions is not a way out of expulsion, but
rather a way that we can impose sanctions
in cases where the EC would not be able to
impose any sanction.

One rule of the EC, while well-suited to
honor system cases, does not always have
a place in the types of cases adjudicated by
the SFHB and that is the student body hear-
ing. Ifthe EC heard these types of cases as
honor violations, there is a possibility that
the case could come to the point where a
complainant and a respondent are arguing
their cases in front of the entire student
body. Some complainants rightly might
choose not to report a sexual assault in the
first place if they did not wish to have to
testify in such a public forum as to the inti-
mate details of what they suffered, details
which arenecessary and important to mak-
ing a fairjudgment about these emotionally
charged situations. While complainants

may voluntarily choose to discuss these de-
tails publicly, it is problematic for the insti-
tution to require that complainants subject
themselves to the embarrassment of argu-
ing their case in front of the entire student
body. SFHB decisions, instead, are ap-
pealed to the UBA, which is a way of ensur-
ing that the SFHB has oversight without
having procedures that could threaten the
privacy of a complainant who wishes to
maintain that privacy.

Mr. Anderson’s article, while pointing
out the undisputable connection between
rape and a lack of honor, fails to examine
the reasons for the creation of the SFHB.
For these reasons, the SFHB is a better fo-
rum to adjudicate these cases. The EC is
charged with the maintenance of the honor
system, and simply appoints SFHB students
to ensure that parts of honor dealing with
sexual misconduct, discrimination, and ha-
rassment, are adjudicated by individuals
with specialized training, and in a forum that
respects complainant and respondent rights
to privacy.

Sincerely,
Jonathan M. Wortham ’04, Vice Chair-SFHB

EC responds to rape a/1/c/e

Dear Editor:

We are writing in response to Caley
Anderson’s editorial, “Rape must be treated
as Honor Violation,” that appeared in the
Ring-tum Phi on Monday, January 19.

In his article, Mr. Anderson states, “rape
is apparently not considered an Honor Viola-
tion at our University.” First, we would like
to point out that, at least in the past four years,
no case of rape or sexual assault has been
turned over to the Executive Committee. Be-
cause of this, the current EC has not had the
opportunity to formally state whether or not
it sees rape as an Honor Violation. We all
agree with Mr. Anderson that rape is a severe
breach oftrust, is unacceptable, and is as se-
rious or more serious than lying, cheating, or
stealing. -

However, we believe that the Student Fac-
ulty Hearing Board is a forum better suited to
dealing with complaints of rape than is the
EC. Because of its specialized training and
experience in the areas of sexual assault and
rape, as well as its contingency of faculty
members, the SFHB can better handle the com-
plex, emotional nature of such cases.

In addition, Mr. Anderson states, “The
SFHB may or may not dismiss a student found
guilty of rape.” However, in cases of rape,
the SFHB uses the same single sanction pen-
alty of dismissal that the EC uses. Page 42 of
the Student Handbook states: “Forced sexual
intercourse will be sanctioned by dismissal
from the University.”

Any questions may be directed to the EC
members, whose names, email addresses, and
telephone numbers are posted around cam-
pus. Thank you for your time.

Sincerely, /
The Executive Committee ofthe Student Body

I‘

 

t‘

  

JOHNHYLAN)
AssrrANrSi>oRisEDrioR
Fl/lAiI.‘HYlAND@VIlJ.H)U

’r'ia:t:Rrnc-':'et«:.l?E1

MONDAY, JANUARY 26, 2004

Generals On four game slide

BY JOHN HYLAND
ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITOR

The W&L men’s basketball
team dropped three conference
games last week and are in the
midst of a four game losing streak.
Their record stands at 3-13, 2-8
ODAC and is in last place in their
conference.

Last Sunday, the Generals
squared off against Hampde-
Sydney, then the top-rariked tea
in in the country in front of a
packed house at the Warner Cen-
ter. Early on, the Tigers demon-
strated why they are so highly
touted, opening up a 31-10 lead
and holding the Generals to only
two ﬁeld goals in the first ten
minutes of the game. W&L
climbed back into the game, how-
ever, closing the first half on a
14-5 run to cut the deﬁcit to 12
points. They began the second
half the same way they ended the
first, going on a 16-6 run, to close
the gap to just two points, with
just over 13 minutes remaining.

It was as close as the Gener-
als would get, as the Tigers built
up their lead to 18 points and
pulled out a 69-56 victory. The
Tigers held the Generals to just
35% shooting from the field,
which was the difference in the
game. Despite the loss, the
young Generals could take com-
fort in the fact that they were able
to stay close to one of the
nation’s perenially elite teams for
most of the game. Junior guard
Mike Stuart’s 16 points led the

Kristen Brown exempliﬁes student success as athelete,

BY KIM GUNST
STAFF WRIIER

You’ve got class all day; you need to start study-
ing for that major exam you have tomorrow; lacrosse
practice is going to be extra long today, and you still
need to find time to draft several speeches and meet
with your state delegation for Mock Con because
you’re the State Chair. Stressed out yet?

This may not be an ideal schedule for most of
you; but for junior Kristen Brown, it’s a reality. Brown
is the State Chair of Vermont, captain of W&L’s ﬁeld
hockey team, and a member of the lacrosse team.
She knows a thing or two about managing her time

wisely.

“I really thought hard about whether or not I
was biting off more than I could chew, but I decided
that the hardest work would be at a time right in
between the two seasons,” Brown said. “It has been
hard to schedule weekly meetings around practice

and game schedules.”

Over the past year, Brown has been respon-

Generals, freshman guard Chris
Halkitis had a solid all-around
game with 9 points, 7 rebounds
and 5 assists

The Generals travelled to
Emory and Henry on Wednesday
evening and opened the game,
appearing to have built off of
their solid performance against
Hampden-Sydney. They used a
12-0ﬁrsthalfruntobuilda2l—12
lead. Sophomore forward Phil
Landes accounted for all of the
points on four three-pointers. All
in all, the Generals shot 10 of 14
from three-point range in the first
half to take a 36-26 lead. The Gen-
erals maintained their lead in the
second half and led 49-38 at the
11:40mark.

The game headed downhill
for W&L for the remainder of the
half. The Wasps went on a 17-0
run to take the lead and never
looked back en route to a 76-66
victory. The Generals shot just
36% in the second half and for
the game, committed 23 tum-
overs to E&H’s 13. Landes ﬁn-
ished with 19 points, Halkitis
added 18 and Stuart 12 to round
out double-digit scoring for the
Generals.

W&L faced another highly
touted opponent in Virginia
Wesleyan on Saturday, entering
the game 12-3, 6-3 ODAC and
ranked 24th in the country. In a
deja-vu performance to the E&H
game, the Generals took a lead
into halftime and midway through
the second half only to have a

  PORTS

LOOKING FOR A WAY OUT. The Generals continued its losing streak this
past week with three conference losses.

late second-half run crush them.
The Marlins went on a 9-0 run to
take a 46-38 lead with 10:55 left
and took as much as a 55-44 lead.

The Generals roared back
however, and cut the deﬁcit to
57-54 with just under two minutes
left. The Generals could not con-
nect on two layups in the last
minute and the Marlins con-
nected their free throws to ice a

sible for researching the background of the primary
in Vermont, learning about the candidates, and pre-

ﬂoat.

ule.

dieting how Vermont will vote in the 2004 Demo-
cratic National Convention. She also oversees
fundraising and the production of her state’s parade

As if that didn’t seem like enough, Brown has
also been juggling academics and two sports on top
of it all. Fortunately, Brown thrives on a busy sched-

Since Governor Howard Dean is from Vermont,
Brown must also write a speech to nominate him as
well as a speech on Vermont ’s views on Iraq. She

said that only the past few weeks have been the

most challenging.

“It’s really crunch time,” Brown stated while
thinking about the long week ahead of her. “I’m in
the process of making ﬁnal decisions about how
Vermont will vote, building a ﬂoat for the parade,

drafting several speeches, going to lacrosse prac-

tice every day, and getting school work done.”

59-54 victory. Halkitis shot 6 of 9
from three-point range for 19
points to lead W&L and sopho-
more forward David Will
added 14 points and 9 rebounds.
The Generals faced yet an-
other top 5 opponent in confer-
ence leader Randolph-Macon
yesterday afternoonand face
Averett in a non-conference
match-up on Wednesday.

PAGE 5

Wrestling team
drops two in

Ursinus Invitational 

BY ALLISON PERRY
CONTRIBUTING EDITOR

The Washington and Lee
men’s wrestling team competed
in the Ursinus Quadrangular in
Collegeville, Pennsylvania on
Saturday. The Generals met up
against Ursinus, McDaniel, and
Wilkes College.

In the first competition Sat-
urday, freshman Max Courtney
pinned Ursinus’ Matt Fralen in
4:05 in the 184-pound match.
Washington and Lee senior
Corey Little lost his 149-pound
match to Mark Barker, 18-6.
Ursinus won the rest of its
matches by forfeit.

In the competition against
McDaniel, Courtney pinned Nate
Klunk in the 184-pound match.
_McDaniel’s Mark Nakasone
pinned Little in 5:50 in the 149-
pound rriatch.

The Generals won the 157-
pound match by forfeit, leaving
McDaniel to win the remainder
of the matches by forfeit except
for the l9_7-pound category in
which there was no bout.

Both Courtney and Little
won their matches against
Wilkes. Courtney pinned his
opponent, while Little defeated

his challenger, 13-4.

There are only three wres-
tlers on the Washington and Lee
team, and only two were able to
attend this weekend ’s contest.
Courtney said the team focuses
on competing individually since
they are forced to forfeit many of
the matches.

“We made a good showing
and went for a combined 4-2 this
weekend,” Courtney said. “So
we showed some respectability.”

Ursinus and McDaniel are
both conference opponents.
Courtney said the conference
match-ups build up to the con-
ference tournament at the end of
February. If the team does well
in that competition, it could move
on to the national championship.

Washington and Lee is now
0-4 overall. The next match for
the Generals is not until Satur-
day, February 7th, when the team
travels to‘ compete against
Albright and Johns Hopkins.
Match time is scheduled for 1 1:00
all). .
The contest against South-
em Virginia that was planned for
this Wednesday has been can-
celled. All of Southern Virginia’s
wrestlers were declared academi-
cally ineligible after the end of fall
term

VT chair

Brown said that she has been able to maintain that’s striving to get places it’s never been before.”

her school work and fully partici-
pate in two sports, but she’s had to
sacriﬁce a lot more of her free time.
Yet even that doesn’t appear to
faze Brown, who says she has thor-
oughly enjoyed the research pro-
cess. .
On the athletic front, Brown
has undertaken a whole other set

of responsibilities. As captain of

the ﬁeld hockey team, she said her
past season was the most demand-
ing she’s ever had. The team,
which is only three years old, is
still working toward building a
solid base.

“It’s exciting to be on a team
that’s making history at W&L,” she
said. “But at the same time it can

 

Now that lacrosse season has
begun, Brown says she is looking
forward to another successful sea-
son. This year’s schedule and prac-
tices will be more intense than ever,
but Brown believes this will take
the team to a new level.

Witll several promising freshman
and great captains, Brown thinks
this is the year the team will begin
competing with the best teams in
Division III women’s lacrosse.

For now, Brown continues to
take each day as it comes. “The
few weeks leading up to the con-
vention have been challenging
and long,” she says in regards to
balancing athletics, academics,
and Mock Con. “I think it will be

also be -challenging to be on an inexperienced team worth it in the en .”

Wednesday, January 28

THIS WEEK’ s SCHEDULE

Tuesday, January 27 Thursday, January 29 Friday, January 30 Saturday, January 31 Sunday, F ebmary 1
0 W Basketball at EM U- 0 M Basketball vs. 0 Open 6 Open 0 Swimming vs. Mary 0 W Basketball vs.
-7:00 Avere --7:00 Mount--3:00 Roanoke--3:00
0 Wrestling at S. Vir- 0 M Basketball vs.
ginia-- 7:30 Roanoke--5:00

Ring-tum Phi: a century’s tradition

Golf Etiquette Tip of the Week:

  Only yell ‘fore” when it is appropriate.

LOOK YOUR BEST FOR
MOCK CONVENTION!

Come by and see Skip, Connie and Wilson at the NEW LOCATION.

SKIP THOMPSON’S

BARBER SHOP

17 S. Randolph ~ Lexington, VA

 

Open Mon., Tues., Thurs., &-Fri. 8 a.m. - 5 pm.

Sat. 8 a.m. - noon; Closed Wed. & Sun.
540-463-5954

 

Sell Trips,
New Rirmg On-(ampus ﬂaps

tall fat grams if

S'f$’|'RAVEI...COM

loitrlmcaiafx

-#1 swim {aw 6)».-mar

   

5%

    
  
   

En:-as (ash, Go in-cf

“WW5

a

.;'Z J“

 

v  .v -3.'>i'-in-_

to-.~.. stances

X-339448-¢3»$9 i mmﬁsuwclxnm

PHI 0 Spore TS

#1 Spring Break Vacations!

Cancun, Jamaica, Acapulco, Bahamas &
Florida. Best Parties, Best Hotels, Best Prices!
Group Discounts, Organizers Travel Free!
Space is limited! Book Now & Save!
1-800-234-7007
endlesssummertours.com

 

    

PAGE 6

  

MONDAY, JANUARY 26, 2004

Womens’ basketball goes 1-2 in past Week

BY SARAH BLOOM
STAFF WRITER

Sweet success was the tune
of Monday’s game for the W&L
Women’s basketball team. At the
start of a three-game week, the
girls fearlessly took the court
against Mary Washington Mon-
day evening at the Warner Cen-
ter.

Freshman Jessica Hunsinger
led the Generals to victory with a
game-high score of 14 points and
12 rebounds. Senior Sarah

Michaels also claimed double-
digits with 10 points and 10 re-
bounds. —

Though the game ended in
the General’s favor, 55-50, the
Generals had to protect their lead
all the way down to the last

the Susqueharma Invitational.

minute of the game. Juniors
Laura Hanks and Bethany
Dannelly and sophomore Louisa
Feve secured the win for the Gen-
erals by making foul shots at the
end of the second half.

“The team has made si gnif1-
cant progress this season,” said
Feve of the team’s win. “We
started with only 5 people (be-
cause of people being on other
teams) and we had a brand new
coach, so there was a lot to
learn.”

With little time for recovery,
the girls prepared for their next
game against Hollins. Though
the Generals lead by four points
with 1 l:l6 minutes left, and again
at 2:35, Hollins overcame the
Generals with six straight foul
shots in the ﬁnal two minutes.

Feve again claimed several
points for the Generals; she

, .. . . . [( )-\"
LEADING THE PACK. junior Meredith Walker runs in a 200 meter race in

 

scored the game high of 20
points. Michaels again followed
closely behind with 18 points,
and Hunsinger with 16.

Going in to Saturday’s game,
the team had some new goals in
mind.

“We wanted to pick up our
defensive intensity because it
was lacking a bit and come out
with a win, ” said Feve.
“Unfortuantely, neither of the
two happened. Emory and Henry
beat us in transition and we also
fouled them a lot leading to mul-
tiple three point plays for them.”

The Generals had the lead
with 15:56 left on the clock, but
Emory and Henry overtook the
Generals in the last 15 minutes
with 14 more points. E&H de-
feated the Generals 78-67. Again,
Feve led the team with a high
score of 24 and Hunsinger again

W&L SPORTS
RELEASE

SELINSGROVE, Pa. -— The
Washington and Lee Men’s and
Women’s indoor track and field
teams were both in action on Sat-
urday at the Susquehanna Invi-
tational competing against Divi-
sion II and Division III schools.

Leading the way for the
women was junior Meredith
Walker (Travelers Rest, SC./

followed with 20 points and 12
rebounds. Dannelly contributed
8 points. _

The Generals attribute some
of the loss to the absence of lead-
ing scorer Sarah Michaels who
was not able to make it to the
game.

The team will next play on
Tuesday at Eastern Mennonite
for a 7 p.m. game. For now, the
girls return to the courts and re-
fresh their goals and intentions
for the season.

“The team has a lot of goals
related to basketball and academ-
ics,” claimed F eve, “For the most
part I think we definitely want to
go to the conference tournament
(ODACS) and do well and con-
tinue to improve. Basically, we re-
peat these goals often in prac-
tice, so that they’re always in our
minds.”

Christ Church Episcopal), who
placed third among Division III
competitors in the Long Jump
(l5’5.34”) and eighth among DIII
athletes in the 200 meter (29.09).
Freshman Katherine Brennan
(New Orleans, La./Isidore
Newman) placed third in the pole
vault with a school-record vault
of 9’00.00,” while sophomore
Mary Christopher (Fort Lauder-
dale, Fla./Cardinal Gibbons) fm-
ished third among DIII athletes
in the 800 meter with a time of
2:33.77.

GOING FORT]-[E SCORE. Sophomore Louisa Feve led the Generals in ~

UR’

scoring as the team Went 1-2 over the past week.

Track competes at Susquehanna Invitational

The W&L Distance Relay
team of freshman Tippins Stone
(Nashville, Tenn./Harpeth Hall),
junior Anne Tompkins
(McLean, Va./Potomac School),
freshman Jenny Ratzel (Elm
Grove, Wisc./Brookﬁeld East)
and Christopher placed second
among DIII teams and third
overall with a time of 13: 15.00.

The W&L men were paced
by junior Brian Krupczak
(Cohasset, Mass./Cohasset),
who placed fourth among Divi-
sion III competitors in the 200

meter with a time of 23.72.
Sophomore Keith Sullivan (San
Antonio, Texas/Alamo
Heights) placed sixth among
DIII athletes in the triple jump
with a leap of 39’3.00” and jun-
ior Nathan Johnson (Lexington,
Va./Rockbridge County) was
third among DIII athletes in the
1,500 meters with a time of
4:14.92.

The Generals will return to
action on Sun., Feb. 8, when
they compete in the Christo-
pher Newport Invitational.

.5\s‘

. (‘g
i»\\‘‘“‘‘

 

Wash & Lee Post Bac 04

For more information, visit
www.jhu.edulpostbac or call 410-516-7748.

The Johns Hopkins Post-Baccalaureate
Premedical Program prepares college
graduates with strong academic records to
apply to the bestjmedical schools by giving
them the personal attention, the necessary
science and math courses, and one-to-one
academic advising.

If you or someone you know wants to pursue a
career as a doctor, apply by March 1.

 want to become a doctor.”

lity:
“I don’t have the

required courses
for medical school.”

 

Post-Baccalaureate
Premedical Program

T‘

 

Jo

 

3 'PAGE 7

. As the student politicos among us make
the final preparations for Mock Con, it’s only
{fitting that our student of diversity this week
take a political turn also. At a school that
boasts the largest chapter of College Republi-
cans in Virginia, the liberals on campus can
feel left out in the cold. Joanna Persio, ajunior
‘Economics and Environmental Studies major
from Cheshire, Connecticut, was
among those lonely left—wingers on
campus. She wouldn’t accept the
single voice of College Republicans
though. In an effort to balance the
prevailing conservative voices among us,
Joanna strives to create a bi—partisan feel to
W&L through her efforts as president of the
‘(Young Democrats.

“I think I became president by default,”
Joanna recalls of her leadership of the Young
Democrats. At the beginning of her sophomore

‘year, J oanna’s former dorm counselor, Heather
Knorr, sent an email to the hall explaining that
there really was a Democratic group on cam-
pus, and that anyone who was interested
should email Skye Justice. Joanna decided to

‘get involved, but she didn’t find the vibrant
campus organization she hoped for. Instead,
Skye handed her the entire group with only an

    
  

 

ORETHAN}vlAﬂ\ISTRE;tMJoanna believes that her fel-
tttttttt  

old binder of constitutions to guide her. Joanna
faced the daunting task of revitalizing the de-
funct group on a campus renowned for its con-
servative leanings.

At the beginning of last year, Joanna’ held
a sign-up drive outside the Co—op for the Young

, Democrats. The results shocked her: over eighty

people signed up initially, and roughly twenty
more have joined since then.

low students are “more lib-
eral than people think. How-
ever, there are really loud, re-
ally conservative right—wing people.”

Surprisingly, Joanna is not a steadfast
Democratic partisan. Personally, she believes
that “being overly partisan can lead a person to
overlook certain arguements and can inhibit
you from completely understanding an issue.”
All opinions have valid points, and the key to
effective leadership is to be able to benefit from
both sides of an issue. “I’m not really partisan
at all,” Joanna says, and her main purpose in
taking over the reins of the Young Democrats
was to provide an alternative voice to the loud
College Republicans.

Joanna does take some staunch Democratic
positions on certain issues though. She de-

JEB BROOKS/ 11-IERING-TUMPI-1

FIFTH YEAR ON STAGE? Kappa Alpha made a surprise move on Friday by having ﬁfth year senior Eppa Hunton

perform as the Neil Diamond in their act. However, freshmen did perform as backup singers.

CHAMPIONS. Pi Beta Phi Lip Sync Winners , Lauren Kampf and Michele Theroux are shown performing their
gwinning act, “Me Against the Music,” by Britney Spears and Madonna. Wendy Kang and Mariko Ishikawa also

performed in the act.

OVER THE TOP. Sigma Chi pledges were a contest favorite, performing Madonna’s “Like a Prayer.” Despite the
stripping, Sigma Chi did not get gonged. The 20th Annual Students Against Rockbridge Area Hunger Lip
Sync was held last Friday in the Pavilion. Changes marked this years Lip Sync. The format of this years
‘performance was a gong show. Any acts deemed inappropriate or just plain bad were gonged off the stage.
Lambda Chi and Kappa Delta get the honor of being the first fraternity and sorority to get gonged in the
history of Lip Sync. The winners, Pi Beta Phi, received free Fancy Dress Tickets and an engraved trophy that

they will keep for one year.

LIFE

.«Glimpse at Washington and Lee Young Democrats on c

 

MEGANMORGAN

Amsztrrtmoi

EMAn;Nri<c.AriAB(z,NtUE1J

scribes herself as really pro—choice, but resents
being called an “infanticide crusader” by cer-
tain members of the press. “It’s a private is-
sue,” Joanna says. “A woman’s reproduction
isn’t a public policy issue. The idea of when
life starts is a huge religious, moral and ethi-
cal issue. To value a la.wmaker’s feeling over
that of the woman’s is a huge deal.”

She is also interested in issues concern-
ing the environment, poverty, and education.
She volunteers regularly at Head Start, and
has taken coursework in both environmental
and poverty studies.

As for President Bush, Joanna thinks he
is “taking our country in the wrong direction”
and believes that “he has done some remark-
ably unintelligent things.” She strongly dis-
agrees with him on the issue of gay marriage.
“His idea of a constitutional amendment limit-
ing marriage is completely contradictory to the
nature and spirit of the constitution,” Joanna
_ascertains.

Joanna will participate in Washington
Term this spring, where she hopes to work for
another liberal, hopefully a congresswoman
from Connecticut. As for Mock Convention,
she thinks “it’s a really great opportunity to
get a bunch of Democrats to come to campus

MONDAY, JANUARY 26, 2004

ampus   

 

' B

and make people listen to them.” Joanna
helped write the political platform for the con-
vention and serves as Research Chair for the
Louisiana delegation.

The staff of the Ring—tum Phi recognizes that
diversity comes in all forms, in both traditional
and non—traditional definitions. Every week we
strive to feature a different student of diver-
sity. If you know a student who adds a little
something different to our university and think
they would make a great spotlight in the Phi,
please email Kelly Jo Larsen at
larsenk@wlu.edu and nominate them.

 

We W1 sh the W &L community a succesful, T°'"~'“'"““°'"P”“y
- . Interviews?
fun and safe Mock Convention weekend. 
. . Let us help you look and feel
~ .  end a our your best!!
U n  r  1   y t Custom and Ready Made Suits
is  e an e r S your engagmen 2111- and Sports Coats
anonymous  to Shirts, pants, shoes and all accessories
l THE CLEANEST or THE CLEAN. p 1 W u'6 u St d “D k &
u en ac ages
CALL US FOR ALL OF YOUR DRY CLEANING, Quick ts G; , Cm; 1-cam Available
,L LAUNDRY AND ALTERATIONS NEEDS . _ _ _
Triple Nine Society
Founded 1978
Great Service to EXt"a°rdi”airrIVa$]ama"aderle ContactAdam,Williarns
. . . _ _ _ . f ' tm t
 F1rst—Rat6Qual1tY :::;:t:..:’:IW°~ °’3v‘it?i"‘;3:‘:Ai‘:°’
' old SAT 1450, new SAT 1520,
‘ GRE 1460, MAT 85; 540—815—4557
#7 North J Bffef S011 SUCCI dry cleaning,  @ Wlu°edu see C°m_p'ete_ "St at‘ Adam.Wi11iams @tomj amesretailcom
4.63-3622 laundry, alterations www'tnp'emne'°rg
_\i .___
9'

 

PAGE 8

It wasn’t so long ago that Washington
and Lee students cared about Mock Con-
vention, which, oh bythe way, is this week-
end. Before libelous state t-shirts (see 1-Da-
Ho) became the mold, or at least the most
entertaining facet of Mock Con, people ac-
tually argued about whom would be nomi-
nated.

This past weekend, the Mock Con powers-
that-be predicted that Missouri

 

THE “A!”

University’s first Mock Conventi

 

The lore of Mock Con is n'ch——from U.S.

Sen. Alben Barkley’s sudden collapse and death
while on stage in 1956 to the rumor of a late-
night hookup between a former Arkansas gov-
ernor and a W&L student in 1988.

However, nothing outdoes the tale of the

very first Mock Convention of 1908. The cau-
cus pitted the fervent and controversial Will-
iams Jennings Bryan against Minnesota gov-

~ ernor John A. Johnson.

l{ep.Dicl; giepharcllt would :torlr(n THEI.pQRMA'1'10N 190l;rorr1rhth;Ring—Turn is
into nerg oring owa an ta e : “ e ryan men in en e
the caucus. _,J_@_TROTI'ER‘04 _ to push things through and nomi-

 

Since then, Gephardt has

summarily excused himself from the race after
finishing a woeful fourth in the caucus. The
bow out was so abrupt that
dickgephardt2004.com is no longer even an ac-
tive Web site.

Mock Con’s elite should not fret because
outside of a few anti-Denbowlites, nobody
cares. The Oklahoma State Delegation will hold
its coin toss later this week in order to select a
nominee. The truth is that no one gives two
hoots that Mock Con is in danger of its first
mis—prediction since 1972, when students chose
Kennedy over eventual-nominee McGovern.

In order to rekindle that Mock Con fire of

nate their favorite that night, while

it was the general prediction, judging from their
dilatory tactics of the precedingnight that the
Johnson men would stay proceedings as much
as possible. The fact that three or four sec-
tions of the platform had consumed the greater
part of the preceding night made it look as
though the convention might last a week.”

All day Thursday, state delegations con-

vened to select their candidate. For whatever
reason, the tempers of the respective delega-
tions began to simmer.

The Phi wrote, “words are wholly inadequate

to express the degree of interest and enthusiasm s
of delegates, which frequently manifested itself

‘WORD?

on delivered rumble

 
 
    

A MBGANMORGAN
ARis&l_iI~tEDr10R

mm m

Eventually the unruly crowd was tempo-
rarily tempered and the moderator called the
proceedings to orderso that the states could
declare their nominations. However, each com-
ing proclamation was like pouring kerosene
over an open ﬂame.

Nebraska chose Bryan. New York coun-
tered with Johnson. Tennessee took Nash-
ville Tennessean newspaper editor Edward W.
Carmack out of nowhere. Each nomination
was instantly followed by long arrays of
curses and boos from the opposite side. “The
unit rule got enough curses to last it, until a
bird could carry the shores of every sea to

"Mars and a back a thousand times, carrying

only one grain of a sand at a time,” wrote the
Phi. To translate, the convention was taking
a long time.

Then it was Kansas’ turn. And all hell broke
loose. Johnson’s supporters in the Kansas del-
egation, trailing in the overall poll and feeling
that they were getting the nominational screw,
questioned the integrity of the convention.
Bryan’s proponents would not listen. So, in-
stead of talking it out, the two sides just duked
it out. Then the whole convention joined in.
with New York leading the charge. After sev- A
eral jabs and a few kicks were exchanged, or-

BY CHRIS LAUDERMAN
ASSISTANT ARTS AND LIFE
EDITOR

The 23rd Mock Convention
will kick off Friday morning at
10:30 with a parade. Floats, don-
keys and other festive sites will
take 2 hours to proceed down
the route.

All 55 delegations will be in-
volved in the parade. Of the 55
delegations, 50 are expected to
have actual ﬂoats, while the re-
maining ﬁve delegations will be
riding in trucks.

Each delegation has a theme
unique to their state or territory.
Pemisylvania will have an Amish
and Hershey theme, while the Ne-
vada delegation will be building the
Las Vegas strip.

Montana is just one example
of how time constraints and lack
of money inﬂuence the ﬂoat
building process. “Plans started
as a life size horse with moun-

' tains,” said Montana Facilities
f - ‘ Chair, Sara Duckworth. “Since
the horse would have taken
months to build, we had to
change our plan.”

Duckworth then began to
look at the Montana state ﬂag as
inspiration for the ﬂoat. The ﬂag
has an emblem with mountains
and a waterfall. Because of bud-
get problems, the delegation used
cardboard to build the ﬂoat.
Duckworth began construction

I : -‘ of the ﬂoat with members of the
Montana delegation early last
Saturday. In addition to building
the ﬂoat, every member of the del-
egation will be in a cowboy
themed outﬁt.

Five donkeys will be leading
the parade this year in honor of the

     
     
   
   
   
   
  
     
      
     
       

 

old, we need to look to the past for inspiration.

Parade to proceed

Democratic Party. In addition to the
many ﬂoats, the parade will also in-
clude Uncle Sam on stilts, the Lib-
ertyHallVolLmteers, andadrumand
ﬁfe band The local bands could not
march in the parade because ofthe
regional band competition.
The parade will begin at
Brewbaker Field then turn right
onto Wallace Street From Wallace,
the parade will then take a right
onto Taylor Street. The parade will
then go north on Taylor to Hous-
ton Street. It will follow Houston
to Main Street. , The parade will
turn leﬁ on Washington Street and
go past the Doremus Gym to
Nelson Street. From Nelson, the
parade will go up to West Denny
Circle to the freshman parking lot,
Ruins, and Pavilion lot, where the
ﬂoats will be immediately disas-
sembled.

Awardswillbe giventotheAll-
Around Best Float and the Most
Humorous Float. First, second, and
third place prizes will be awarded
The judges include Mimi Ehod, Tho-
mas Burish, and other campus per-
sonalities.

The ﬂoats must be assembled
and ready to move at 8 a.m. Fri-
day morning. The parade will be
lined up by that time and will start
at 10:30 a.m. -Approxirnately ﬁf-
teen people can ride on the ﬂoats
with a few others walking in the
parade. Everyone else must watch
from the street.

‘The city has been very help-
ful, as well as the community,” said
Parade Chairman Emily Tyson.
“Flags will go up this Monday in
town and remain up until the follow-
ing Monday.” She went on to say
that store owners will be decorating
their windows to get everyone in a
festive mood.

in the character of a ‘scrap’ or a heated ‘set-to. ”’

der again was restored, but not for long.

BRINGIN’ D: THE MONEY. Fundraising co-chairman Thomas W/orthy
works hard to make sure Mock Convetion will happen. W/orthy, and
his counterpart Brooks Morgan, spend hours each week on the phone
with potential donors relating the academic merits of Washington and
Lee’s Mock Convention. His southern twang and quick wit, known
Well to most Washington and Lee students, serves his purposes well.

MONDAY, JANUARY 26, 2004

Near the end of the convention, Student
Chairman Willard Neal Grubb made a ruling
that “incensed” the Johnsonians. A.devo-
tee of Johnson jumped on a chair and yelled
to his fellow students to “bolt” from the
gym. Thereafter, all of those in favor of
Johnson left the gym and reconvened in the
English building where they nominated
Johnson for president and Carmack for vice
president. '

After the Johnson men left, the main
convention nominated its own president,
Bryan, and vice president, Charles A.
Culberson.

In spite of the brawl, the Phi called the
event a success. “The convention in every
particular was a glowing success,” it wrote.
“While some bitterness existed among the men
on that night, yet all day yesterday nothing
could be seen by the downy wings of the dove
of peace as it ﬂuttered with sweetest of com-
placency over the camps of the ‘warring’ fac-
tions.

So this weekend, if you’re a Deaniac from
Wyoming or a Sharptonian from Mississippi,
and you’re angry, knock someone’s block off.
After all, it was in this schizo——kill everyone—
spirit upon which Washington and Lee’s first
Mock Convention was founded.

EB ROOKS HE ING-TUM HI

The suit will almost certainly convince unsure potential donors that
they must contribute. His Uncle Sam outﬁt was worn by other steering
committee members throughout the week. Students saw General
Chairman Noah Rhodes, Treasurer W/illiam Litton, Political Chairman i‘
Michael Denbow and Social Chairman Mike Baker dressed up in an
effort to help build anticipation for the Convention.

  
 
 
 
  
 
 
    
   
  
  
  
  
  
  
 
   
 
  
   
 
  
 
 

  

      
       
     
    
   
   
   
 
   
    
   
   
 
    
  
    
     
   
    
    
    
    
   
    
  
     
     
 
   
    
   
 
    
   
   

  
    
    
    
       
      
      
   
      
    
     
     
    
      
      
        
       
 

sor, “BS detectors.”

     

 

(1) Props to Lambda Chi for being the ﬁrst act to
be gonged in Lip Synch history.

S3611.

(iii Shame on the Lip Synch judges for gonging
the Kappa Delta “Yellow” act. The girls built a sub-
marine and didn’t even get to use it.

(D Shout out to‘ religion Professor Jason Fuller,
by far the coolest professor this campus has ever

q) The only thing your “milkshake” is bringing 
you is a few extra pounds.

 I think I speak for every male anthropology

Eighties rockers Bad Hair Day missed a spe-
cial someone this past Saturday night.

0:) Kudos to the good citizens of Lex for bringing
a tattoo and body piercing parlor back to the mean
streets of our fair city.

Q"; Purse, now that “he’s gone,” how about we
catch up on our weekend apart? On second
thought, how about NO?

41) Kudos to Kappa Sig for throwing meat, rip-
ping the heads of babies and for ‘GONG DEZ NUTS ’ r'f_{’,~
sign at LipSync.

The fact that they make it in your size does
not mean it isn’t a crime against humanity to wear
it. After all, they do manufacture bikinis for preg-
nant ladies.

qr Big 12 Mock Con was the party of the year!

When it is discovered that a candidate for
a position as W&L is either soulless or a sa-
dist, is he immediately positioned in the
Registrar’s Office? .

student when I say, “Professor Bell, will you many

me?”

(9 Congratulations to Matthew B. McDerrnott for
being named one of BE magazine’s student advi-

mails?

Q I’ve heard of booty calls, but who booty e-

Q) Two-for-one holiday! Today is both Australia
Day and India’s Republic Day. Party!

 I Way to go, Thomas! You did a great job as Lip
Synch emcee. Way to make the Phi proud.

(1) What’s with people playing Trivial Pursuit in
the living room of the Commons?

«is Anyone who wants to play Trivial Pursuit
should meet in the living room of the Commons
Thursday at 12.

(I) B&G should learn to paint trim without paint-
ing windows shut.

 Can someone please do something about the
loose step in the all-too spirally spiral staircase in
the Commons? 2

Q Brown Louis Vuittons are classic. If
accessorized tastefully, they can be worn with any
outﬁt, regardless of the color of the shoes. After
all, women have been spotted with these trademark
trunks since 1854.

cf; Old George looks great in the Commons.

 How did all the sororities get their own rap

+-

songs? That is so cool. To hear them, click to
www.inodyiedliving.com/a7$crilla.htm.

(‘#3 Want to tell Princeton Review what you think

of our school? http://survey.revie'w. com

nice one!
cp Go Patriots!
Panthers suck!

ch Happy Birthday to Eddie Van Halen, turning
49, and Wayne Gretzky, turning 43.

, Don’t eat Sprees. Too much sugar, it’s bad for
your teeth.

(3) Three cheers for NASA. Way to get Spirit go- it

ing again.

Special thanks to the MetroLex merchants who

decorated in red, white and blue to celebrate Mock ,
Con. Be sure to stop by The College Town Shop '
A and The Cutting Edge.

(53 Ice skating is the best PE class ever.

V

. So, the snow didn’t close campus. Does the
physical plant ever take a day off?

:1; Don’t forget to buy your Mock Con memora- ,
bilia available all this week in the Commons Room. '

:3: Brett Kirwan is a big tool.

:1; E-mail your anonymous Quick Hits and stories 3
I

of Mock Con rowdiness to phi@wlu.edu.

I

s‘

Lots of January birthdays out there, so have a '

"U

  
    
   
   
    
  

   
  

£313,755

" A

Speakers say
Rock on, Mock Con

BY ERIN JULIUS
NEWS EDITOR

Boston’s mayor Menino called the
2004 Mock Convention to order early Fri-
day afternoon, just as he will at the 2004
Democratic Convention in July.

James Carville lived up to his nickname
the “Ragin’ Cajun” as he got the Warner
Center-hotting and hollering on a
Saturday morning.

Menino spoke
brieﬂy, emphasizing the ‘
need for elected ofﬁ-
cials to “engage” young ‘
people. “In July, I hope
my party will have
something new and
signiﬁcant to say the Ameri-
can people,” said Menino

Political Chairman Michael Denbow
called Mock Con a “daunting task” that
“sets the men and women of Washington

“and Lee part,” he said.

‘‘I will guarantee you yet another cor-
rect prediction,” said Denbow.

Virginia Governor Mark Warner spoke
during the first session of the Mock Con-
vention. Warner called the Mock Conven-
tion, “one of Virginia's greatest tradtitions.”

Warner compared the current Demo-
cratic race to his own campaign. He said
his campaign had been an unconven-
tional one that offered Virginians a differ-
ent message. His campaign made it pos-
sible to, “like NASCAR, hunting and
bluegrass and still be a Virginia Demo-
crat.”

When discussing the Presidential
race, Warner said he hoped that candidates
don’t, “get mired down in social issues,”
and that the next President will focus on
ﬁscal responsibility.

After his speech, Warner called the
Washington and Lee student body ﬁscally
conservative, “a reﬂection of the Virginia
electorate, but I don’t think they’re knee-
jerk conservative on social issues,” Warner
said.

‘‘I only got hooted at by a couple of
people,” he said of Washington and Lee’s
historic conservatism.

David Boren, President of the Uni-
versity of Oklahoma, and a former Sena-
tor for and Governor of Oklahoma,
praised Washington and Lee as a place
where, “honor is not just a slogan, but a
way of life.”

Boren called this Presidential election
the most important in his lifetime. The next
President needs to, “set as a top priority
rebuilding trust and respect of the U.S.
around the world,” he said.

America's standing in the intema-
tional arena was a common thread found
among the speeches given at Mock Con-
vention.

- In a show of support for General
Clark, former Navy Secretary
John Dalton spoke to the
crowd. Dalton indicted
President Bush for the

loss of support around the

world, saying that riots

start in the street when

Bush goes abroad.

“We are no longer respected

and trusted in the world,” said Dalton.

Dalton campaigned for Clark in New
Hampshire and D.C. and believes in him
because, “foreign policy is going to be a
major issue,” in the campaign said Dalton.

America needs, “a strong candidate
who runs as Commander-in—chief,” said
candidate General Wesley Clark via tele-

. phone.

Balanced fiscal spending was another
common theme. ‘There are times to be con-
servative and times to be liberal. . .and we
must be balanced in what we do,” said
South Carolina Representative James
Clybum at the second session of the Mock
Convention.

Political commentator James Carville
keynoted the Mock Convention, calling it
“one of the true great traditions on Ameri-
can politics.”

The Bush Administration doesn’t,
“deserve reelection. . .because they have a
cynical view of America and Americans,”
he said.

“Who are these clowns to tell the

Democrats anything about the economy?”

Carville asked.

Carville did not support any one
Democratic candidate, but said, “the only
way John Kerry is gonna lose this thing
is if he gets caught with a dead girl or live
boy.”

Carville criticized Bush the most.
Kerry is, “just a better man than Bush,”
he said.

The Mock Convention felt, “very
real” and, “gives the students here a sense
of the real momentum and excitement of
politics,” said Carville.

R WASIrllNGE)§ANDPT~1‘3 UNIVERSITY

lie student ooice of Washington and Lee University since 1897

| E-H MoNoAY,FEBRUARY2,2O04

/06 /7

Vottii/IECVILNOMII

PRESIDENTIAL

OOURTBY K‘ERRY.SE.NA'I'E.GOV

Decision 2004. Washington and Lee’s Mock Convention picked Senatorjohn Kerry  to be the Democratic
candidate to oppose President George W. Bush. The Convention selected Senatorjohn Edwards (D—NC) to fill the Vice
Presidential slot on the ticket. Check page seven for Mock Con memories.

OOURTBY EDWARDS.SB\IATE.GOV

Traveller makes changes for better

BY MAGGIE SPEASMAKER
STAFF WRITER

Over the past year, strong leadership and key changes
have strengthened Traveller, the safe-ride system that
serves the Washington and Lee community.

When Bailey Edwards took over as General Chairman
of Traveller this fall, he faced several problems. Traveller
was suffering from poor accounting, a record of unreliable
service, and student dissatisfaction. To remedy these prob-
lems, Edwards put his comrriittee to task.

“First we accounted for every dollar we had spent,”
said Edwards. “No busi-
ness can be successful
without solid account-
ing information, and I
think Traveller is no ex-
ception.” ‘

The Traveller Com-
mittee also determined

"ways that they could spend the 40,000 dollars granted to

9 them by the Board of Trustees at their October meeting.
Edwards, along with his committee, decided to use the grant
to expand their educational program and implement trial
periods for more effective operating procedures.

As a supplement to the safe-ride system, the Traveller
Committee is putting more money into programs that edu-
cate about the risks of drunk driving. “We have started an
education sub-cornrnittee where we are looking to bring in
speakers before Fancy Dress and Foxfield,” said Katie
Henderson, secretary of Traveller.

In addition to the education efforts, the Traveller Sys-
tem is undergoing new operational procedures. A trial pe-
riod is currently in effect testing these current changes.

Instead of having vans run the set route throughout town
on low volume nights, there are now dispatched drivers
every night of the week. The routed vans now run only on
Wednesday, Friday, and Saturday nights. ,

“In short, the biggest change is that you can call for a
ride from Traveller every night of the week to go any-
where,” said Edwards.

Although the trial period is not over, members of the
Traveller Committee are conﬁdent that these changes will
be beneﬁcial.

Students are making use of the nightly dispatched
car, even with pledges, and the numbers are expected to

rise even higher after
pledgeship.
Edwards says that the
Traveller education sub-
committee has produced
good results as well.
They held a campaign
trying to get people not to
drink and drive over Christmas Weekend that was an enor-
mous success. More than 300 students signed a pledge
and wore ribbons throughout the weekend indicating their
agreement not to drink and drive.

“The greatest prize came on Monday morning when
we learned that no DUI’s were given to W&L students
during Christmas Weekend,” said Jeb Brooks, chair of the
Traveller education sub—comrriittee.

At this point the only serious complaint that students
have about the Traveller System is the amount of time it
takes to get a ride.

“Our proposal for the Trustees raises this student con-
cern, and hopefully, we will be able to provide more drivers
in the future,” said Edwards.

Safehaven policy protects students who seek help for substance abuse

BY CATHERINE SWAN
SENIOR STAFF WRITER

At a university ranked as
the #5 party school in the na-
tion by the Princeton Review, a
primary concern of the Wash-
ington and Lee community is that
students party safely.

The practice of Safe Haven
encourages students to act re-
sponsibly and seek medical at-
tention if they find an individual
whose health is in danger due
to substance abuse.

Simply put, Safe Haven en-
sures that students who need to
seek medical treatment for sub-
stance abuse will not face judicial
action. For the administration, the
practice is centered on ensuring
student safety.

“It’s a weighing of risks of
what practice will encourage and
not discourage responsible be-
havior,” said General Counsel
Leanne Shank.

Although the practice en-
courages students to act respon-
sibly, it could also be seen to pro-

mote irresponsible behavior.
Even if a student has committed
a strike as deﬁned by the Stu-
dent Judicial Council’s three-
strike system, if he goes to the
Student Health Center to seek
medical help, he and the indi-
vidual or individuals who took
him will be free from judicial ac-
tion.

While the administration re-
alizes this could promote irre-
sponsible dririking, they still be-
lieve that safety should super-
cede the threat of judicial action.

Grades suffer fall term slump

“My goal in sticking to this
practice is to make sure that stu-
dents don’t avoid indicated
medical care because of con-
cerns about disciplinary conse-
quences.

On the other hand, I don’t
want to see it abused, with high

. risk drinking practices promoted

because of a perception that the
Heath Center will just take care
of the consequences and no one
will get in trouble,” said Dr. Jane
Horton, Director of Student
Health Services.

Dean Watkins agreed that al-
though the practice involves a
weighing of interests between stu-
dent safety and disciplinary mea-
sures, in the end it works because
it places student safety first.

“If we think there is a persis-
tent problem with a particular or-
ganization or with a particular indi-
vidual, we’ll take another look at
our practice,” said Watkins.

From the perspective of the
Student Health Center, the issue is
one of medical confidentiality. The
law requires the Student Health

Center to keep all personal health
information confidential, ensuring
that students are in a ‘Safe Haven’
when seeking medical treatment.
“Medical confidentiality
comes first in a health care set-
ting. This has always been our
practice since I started working
here in 1987. T h e
only exception to this is if some-
one has been in repeatedly, is
felt to be a risk to themselves or
others, and is not cooperating
with evaluation/treatment for the
problem,” said Horton.

Spring term’s fate to be decided soon

BY CALEY ANDERSON
OPINIONS EDITOR

Grades are in for Fall Term 03-04, and as usual,
the Fall Term slump struck with a vengeance.

Students tend to do better with experience,
and so a large inﬂux of freshmen every Fall Term
tends to drop grades for independents, while even
more experienced students have problems be-
cause Fall Term tends to be somewhat more diffi-
cult than Spring Term.

As usual, sorority Pi Beta Phi led the field
with a GPA of 3.458. The Pi Phis have not been
shaken from their top spot since Winter of 2001,
when they finished second.

Fraternity Lambda Chi Alpha came in sec-
ond with a GPA of 3.416, a significant gain for
them, as usually either Kappa Alpha Theta or
Chi Omega comes in second.

Rounding out the top three was Kappa Al-
pha Theta with a GPA of 3.407.

.All the fraternities and sororities (as well as
the independent men and women) suffered a
lower GPA this term than Spring term of 02-03
with one notable exception.

In an exceptionally rare occurance, Chi Psi
improved their Fall Term GPA (3.176) over last
terrn’s Spring Term GPA (3.075), making them the
biggest gainer.

The second biggest gainer was Lambda Chi
Alpha, which actually lost .054 of a grade point,
but that was the smallest loss.

Another rarity was that the dubious distinc-
tion of biggest drop this year occurred with fra-
ternity Phi Delta Theta, which went from 3.268 to
2.990, a whopping .278 of a grade point. As a
result, the Phi Delts took over the cellar spot
from Chi Psi.

Ordinarily the biggest drop from Spring
Term to Fall Term are either the independent men
(3.085, a .262 drop) or independent women (3.184,
a .249 drop).

This drop is because all the freshmen are, of
course, generally counted as independents dur-
ing the fall terrn..

Data for the informal fraternity of Alpha Delta
Phi was unavailable, as the University Registrar
counts the ex—members of Sigma Phi Epsilon
(which was a middle of the ﬁeld fraternity in terms
of GPA) as independents

BY ANN STEWART BANKER
STAFF WRITER

After much anticipation, a decision on the
academic calendar could be less than a week away.
The Board of Trustees will open their winter meet-
ing Thursday, and according to Secretary of the
Board Jim Farrar, the calendar issue is the central
item on the Board’s agenda.

“They’ve been discussing the various calen-
dar options for a couple of meetings now,” Farrar
said. “They’ve got all the information they can
have.” Less than two weeks ago, the provost sent
an updated report on the topic to all 3 1 Board mem-
bers, in preparation for upcoming discussion.

Despite the extensive groundwork, President
Burish has stated that there can be no guarantee
that a decision will be reached. Farrar echoed the
president’s sentiment.

“We just don’t know how the conversation
will unfold,” he said. He does think a vote can be
expected as long as the Board feels they have all
the information they need. The plan for discus-
sion is fairly straightforward. On Friday morning,
the Board meeting will open with preliminary com-

ments from Rector N orwood and President Burish.
The various calendar plans will be reviewed, high-
lighting pros and cons of each. The treasurer will
make a presentation on the different options, and
then the topic will be open up to discussion and
questions. There will be time at the meeting on
Saturday morning for follow-up discussion, and if
all goes well, a vote will be made. I

Executive Committee President Helen Hughes
will be making a presentation to the Board on Fri-
day morning as well. At this point she is conﬁdent
that the Board is fully aware of the student senti-
ment on the issue.Hughes is hopeful that a deci-
sion can be reached, but she also realizes the weight
of the matter. “If they do not have enough time or
do not feel as if they completely understand all the
information, they won’t make a decision,” she said.

Assuming a decision is reached, the com-
munications ofﬁce will be ready to announce
the information through a 'campus—wide email,
likely to be sent on Saturday afternoon after the
morning meeting. The communications ofﬁce
also plans to post the decision once it is made
on the Washington and Lee web site as soon as
reasonably possible.

  

w E3 I by
r_EK‘f!‘R*. ,\'A %

FEB I15 20011
PAGE 2

P  ,

   

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 2, 2004

S

 

VMI unveils ‘Master Plan,’ construction to change opus

BY SARAH MURRAY
STAFF \vRrrER

The administration at the Virginia Military In-
stitute is working hard to launch their “Master
Plan”, which consists of renovations that will sig-
nificantly change the landscape of the nation’s first
state military college. The proposed construction
includes ﬁve new buildings, a parking garage, and
four athletic practice ﬁelds that would ideally be
completed in 12 years. _

The ambitious plan is still only a dream.
Fundraising the projected cost of $100 million has
not even begun. Col. Ken White, Director of
Marketing and Communications, said the idea
of a tuition increase “was shot down immedi-
ately”. Only one of the buildings is eligible for
federal support, due to the ROTC program that
will be housed there.

The school intends to rely upon contribu-
tions from alumni and other supporters. VMI’s
superintendent approached possible donors
about this dream before the “Master Plan” was
even drawn up.

“This is truly in its infancy,” said White. “It’s
contingent on so many things.”

Admittedly, it sounds like the brainchild of a
Bond movie villain. But the “Master Plan” is
really a heartfelt attempt to improve life at the
Virginia Military Institute. According to White,
the plan was not intended to make significant
changes to the quantity or personal qualities of
VMI cadets. Instead, its only purpose is to en-
rich the VMI community.

-Iidden Hero dispat

The plan proposes only one new class build-
ing. Along with that, it includes a ﬁeld house, a
student union, and an aquatic center with a pool
and all facilities. A leadership center with a 600-
seat auditorium will be used for seminars and guest
speakers. The parking garagejwill be built out of
necessity, since the leadership center will be built
on the site of the existing parking lot.

Construction of four new multipurpose
practice fields will bump the tennis court out
of its current spot and move the hiking trail
away from its current path. The administra-
tion considers these inconveniences to be on
the path to involving every cadet in intramural
sports.

According to White, making VMI a pedes-
trian campus is another dream of its superin-
tendent, General J. H. Binford Peay III. How-
ever, the roads along the parade grounds and
in front of the Barracks may be closed to ve-
hicles during the implementation of the.“Mas-
ter Plan”.

The “Master Plan” is a recent addition to
the list of construction projects in the city and
at Washington & Lee. But VMI hasn’t forgot-
ten other Lexington residents in their enthusi-
asm. Luckily, most of VMI’s projects will take

place in a way that exclusively affects the cam- '

pus. But Col. James R. Groves, Planning Of-
ficer, has been working closely with Lexington’s
city manager and city engineer to ensure the
smooth coexistence of all undertakings—just
in case.

“It’s important that we work very closely with

Mayock named Associate Dean of College Donate to save Music Festiva

Cher Ed Bolger prote

eRz'ng-tum P ‘

Jet Broo

‘ om‘-‘

Gimme Veemies! VMI Construction under “Master Plan” slated to take 12 years, will change the campus to

a pedestrian friendly one.

the city to coordinate all these projects,” said White.

Several changes have already been made
since the plan’s introduction in November. In
response to state pressure to increase enrollment,
the administration had planned to enlarge the
Barracks. That proposal has been postponed
due to the difficulty of designing a suitable addi-

During the weekends, campus security is in
the hands of one man. Ed Bolger’s official title is
‘Security Information Assistant’ for the Security
Department. He works the security/information desk
in the Elrod Commons on Fridays and Saturdays at
midnight. His job is essential, considering the na-
ture of the W&L campus on Friday and Saturday
nights.

Ed describes his job as assist-
ing the university community and
looking out for their safety. He
monitors several phones, a beeper
and several TV screens each of
which serve va speciﬁc purpose in keeping the cam-
pus secure.

He has been described as “one of the nicest men
you will ever meet.” He observes the speaking tradi-
tion with almost every individual that walks by his
desk. Ed loves this school, the students, and the fac-
ulty. He describes the student body as “the future of
America”, and praises the students for being very
respectful and sincere. His devotion to the school is
boundless — if it’s a problem for the students, then
it’s a problem that needs to be solved, he said.

Being around the students makes him feel “l0
years younger.” He said his favorite thing to do is

 
 

HIDDEN HEROES

BY KATHERINE SHELL

BY KYLE WASS
ASSOCIATE EDITOR

Washington and Lee announced _

the new Associate Dean of the College,
Professor of Romance Languages Ellen
Mayock, last week.

The position of Second Associate
Dean is a fairly new position, created
by President Elrod several years ago.
Mayock’s job description is to, “help
the College assess its academic pro-
grams and will assist in the accredita-
tion process, developing and tracking
the College’s capital projects, and hir-
ing additional full—time, adjunct and
visiting teaching staff for the College
and interdisciplinary programs.” Her
tenure as an Associate Dean begins
J uly‘ 1.

Mayock said she believes “that the
job description will evolve as I come

to understand better this new post and
the needs of the College faculty and
students.”

Mayock will continue teaching,
with a workload of one academic course

per term, and up to two courses per ‘

year in her three—year term as Associ-
ate Dean.

When the position of second as-
sociate dean was created, the idea was
that “the College manages the largest
number of faculty, students, depart-
ments, and programs on campus and
that the [current number of] adminis-
trative positions devoted to the College
were insufficient to handle the
workload,” said Mayock.

As Dean Stewart assessed the
strengths and weaknesses of this as-
pect of the College, she began to mold
the job description for the second as-
sociate dean.

Mayock has been at Washington
and Lee since 1997, when she arrived
as assistant professor of Romance Lan-
guages, and became an associate pro-
fessor of Romance Languages in 2002.

Mayock’ has considerable back-
ground and a special interest in 20'“ cen-
tury Spanish literature, and has a book
coming out later this year entitled “The
‘Strange Girl’ in Twentieth Century
Spanish Novels Written by Women.”

In her new role as Second Associ-
ate Dean, Mayock said she is “particu—
larly interested in deepening our com-
mitment to the liberal arts in real and
practical ways...[and] although [she]
feel[s] conﬂicted by leaving full—time
teaching for the next three years, [she
is] delighted to be able to maintain a
load of two courses per year and to con-
tinue to work with ESOL and Women’s
Studies.”

Need a rest from C
e Veryday life ?

Treat yourself to a luxurious
full body massage by

ATTENTION STUDENTS! ! ! !!

HOUSE FOR RENT

“In the Country”

Next School Tenn

STAFFWRITER

Fundraising to save Spring Terrn’s
Buffalo Creek continued last week. The
fundraising is a reaction to a recent
armouncement by the administration
that the festival could not continue due
to liability concerns.

Inge Hill, co—producer of the fes-

‘tival, collected funds last week in the
Commons to save the festival. Hill
collected several hundred dollars from
the students, and is optimistic that the
festival may be saved. If it is held, the
event will be smaller than in the past.

The late announcement of the

tion to the building. More changes will probably
occur before the”Master Plan’s” completion.
Though the “Master Plan” is not yet ready to
be implemented, the Keydet’s dining hall has already
been approved for renovation. Construction will
begin on March 1st to raise the hall’s capacity from
600 cadets to the current enrollment of 1300 cadets.

to simply watch the students as they walk by and
look at their facial expressions. “You can tell so
much by someone’s facial expression,” he said. He
also said that by exercising the speaking tradition,
you can brighten up someone’s day. When he sees
someone that looks in a rush or distressed, he
makes sure to say hi. ’

Bolger is a Virginia native from
Falls Church, near Washington,
D.C. He worked for Mar-not Cor-
poration until 1990, when he re-
tired. After that he worked as a
private classiﬁed defense con-
tractor with intemal security. Six years ago he de-
cided to move closer to his daughter who teaches
at VMI and his son—in—law who teaches here.

Bolger worked for W&L last year as well in the
old Graham-Lees security office. He likes the Elrod
Commons much better because he gets to interact
with the community more.

Bolger wants to get out and see more of the
country, but at the same time, he loves the
Shenandoah Valley. His advice to all students is a
vehement “Stay in school.” Also, be yourselves,
don’t change for anyone else, and appreciate the
faculty and staff here.

decision to discontinue the festival
will have a large effect on the ability
to raise enough money to keep the
Buffalo Creek Music Festival.

Hill is making additional plans
to raise money in the following
weeks.

He also hopes to gain recogni-
tion from the Executive Committee
in order to allow students to make
donations using University Cards.

Hill realizes that even a great
deal of fundraising carmot compare
to the amount of money spent in pre-
vious years on Buffalo Creek by the
IFC. He hopes the concert be en-
joyed by students this year.

Spend your summer in Wyoming on one of
America’s best guest ranches. Now hiring for
June 1 - September 11 and June 1 - Septem-
Check our staff web
www.coolworks.com/abara for details, or call Bob
or Margie Howe, Managers, at 303-838-1950. Bob
Howe will be on campus February 4. You can set
up an interview on e-recruiting. No need to post

her 25.

A Bar A Ranch:
Spend a summer in Wyoming

site at

cts students, loves Washington and Lee

'$T.—§)

Lease begins June 2004 a resume; you can bring it to the interview.

 f[a1”1"fS, BA, CMT

3654 Collierstown Rd.

1 EL C'ert1'f1'ed Massage Tlrerapjst‘ 4 Bedroom, fully furnished

Board 0fNurs1'ng Certified

1 3 Years Experience $1200/mo.

Gift Certiﬁcates Make
Great Valentine’s Presents!

 

Call Nancy Allison at
James Wm Moore Real Estate

28 South Main St. -463-7080 309 N. Main St. ‘
:.:: T (540) 264'0063 Lexingto , VA 24450 i

 

"$1. ,_,

 

Q

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 2, 2004

\

'iII%ii{[:\.’<i2~'§l.Mi’iil
1
~ )lTORlAL

The power of the press

The power of student publications is

  

‘ undeniable. The student press is free to

print whatever it chooses. As long as we
avoid libel and slander, we are freer than
any other student organization on cam-
pus. .
The Ring-tum Phi maintains a high
standard. Because we must hold other
groups accountable, we must also be
willing to take the high ground, even
when it is difﬁcult. Who holds us ac-
countable? Who is willing to stand up
and tell us if we do something wrong?
We are.

Campus newspapers have a duty to
print the truth. We must realize that what
we write becomes a matter of record.
Like it or not, what we immortalize with
a word processor becomes as-good-as
fact for ‘many readers. When we will-
ingly choose to print (or not print) some-
thing, we ignore the importance of that
trust.

Let it be known that the Ring-tum
Phi will correct any mistake we make.
We do our best to leave no stone
unturned in the search for the truth be-
hind a story. We try to avoid making
mistakes in the first place.

If we do make a mistake, we imme-
diately correct it. If we are found to be
in error, we correct the rnisperception we
created. We do this because we under-
stand that you, our readers, place a cer-
tain amount of trust in us. We will cut a
feature or even a few Quick Hits before

we cut a correction. We will not wait _

two weeks hoping something will die
down before taking action. We act im-
mediately because that is what we hope
you would do.

Any abuse of power is inexcusable,
and when something is brought to. our
attention, especially if they are egregious,
wepwill fix them. We do this because we

irespecti_you, our,r:ea.ders.V:We understand

that if we lose your trust, we lose
everything. We can only hope that other
student organizations might be willing to
take the same attitude.

 

“Last in literacy, ﬁrst in pulitzer prizes.”

-SpottedonaMississippi MockC0nT-Shirt

 

Editor in chief
Assistant Editor

Jeb Brooks
Kyle Wass

News Editor

Opinions Editor

Asst. Opinions Editor
Arts & Life Editor

Asst. Arts & Life Editor

Erin Julius

Caley Anderson
Anne Finley
Megan Morgan
Chris Lauderman

Photography Editor
Asst. Sports Editors

Cody Gabbard

John Hyland

Chad Kiewiet de Jonge
Emily Edwards

Kelly Jo Larsen
Alexa Moutevalis
Kate Zawyrucha
Sarah Beth Campbell
Vanessa Arness
Aubrey Miner

Production Assistants

Copy Editors

Paul Seifert
David Seifert
Henry Grimball
Stuart Presnell
Thomas Worthy

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee Univer-
sity, Lexington. Virginia The Ring-tum Phi is a member of
The Publications Board, but is otherwise independent

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible sub-
missions and letters. All submissions must be e-mailed
to phi@wlu.edu or in the University Center mailbox by
5 p.m. Friday to appear in the following week’s edition.
The Ring-tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions
for content and length. Letters and columns do not
necessarily reflect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi
Editorial Board. Advertising does not reﬂect the opin-
ions of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper

Business Manager
Asst. Business Mgr.
Circulation Director
Asst. Circulation Dir
Distribution Dir

observes current court deﬁnitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
University Commons Room. 341
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, Wrginia 24450
Telephone: (540) 458-4060
Fax: (540) 458-4059
Email: phi@wlu.edu
Subscription rate $40

PHOTO CDURTBY OF

F0oI.’s ERRAND? Mars may hold secrets to the origins of life on Earth, as well as potential for colonization, but should we be focusing on our earthly problems?

NASA’s most recent mission to Mars has created a lot of buzz in the press. Proponents say that there are many practical uses for space
exploration, mining asteroids, terraforming, and colonization, but detractors say that it’s all a pipe dream compared to other problems that
require our attention and money. Today ajunior and a Freshman square off on this interesting issue of intrepid exploration

Pro _.
ANNE FINLEY, ‘O7,

A lot has been happening recently in the exciting world of
space exploration. A new mission to Mars has uncovered more
invaluable data about the composition of rocks and the possi-
bility of water on the planet’s surface. What would this mean
for us? There is a very strong possibility that Mars may have
developed similarly to our planet in a way where it would have
at one time been possible to sustain life. Such a concept opens
a world of possibilities. And increasing NASA’s budget, like
President Bush recently did, could one day lead to a manned
mission to Mars and the kind of answers that only can come
from first—hand exploration. .

Many will wonder why it is important to spend billions of
dollars in order to understand our universe and our future pros-
pects. They will wonder whether the money could have been put
to better use, to solve the array of problems facing us already in
our lives on earth. The answer is. yes and no. We have many
problems and they are real and significant. Yet, I believe it is
our duty to use our technology to find out what we can. There
will never be a time when the world is perfectly stable and at
peace, thus there is no better time than now to devote all avail-
able resources to the study of space. It must be an ongoing
effort, one that develops and progresses with the changing
times. Think what the world would be like if no one utilized or
developed technology and if countries refused to put funds aside
for research. We cannot say that space exploration is unimpor-
tant to our daily lives. We do not yet know all that it has to
offer.

I wholeheartedly believe, and scientific research supports
the possibility, that there must be other planets which are ca-
pable of sustaining life similar to that of our Earth. Besides the
fact that the presence of water on a planet in our very own solar
system suggests that it once or one day could contain life, there
are billions of other solar systems in our almost infinite uni-
verse. It is illogical to think that there could be no other planets
like ours, no other people similar to us. Like the movie Contact
aptly put it, if there weren’t more instances of intelligent life in
our vast solar system, “it would be an awful waste of space”.
And such a thing would be important for us as human beings to
know and care about. We may not be alone, and this prospect is
very exciting and worth exploring.

There are many potential uses for space exploration; it's not
just something we do out of hubris. Not only do the water de-
posits and chemical leftovers on Mars indicate that there was

‘once possibly life on Mars, which is an exciting prospect for us

to explore, but Mars could be useful as a mineral deposit for
mining, as a possible site for colonization some time in the fu-
ture, and other such potentialities. This is true not only of Mars,
but of all space exploration. The more that we know of the uni-
verse in which we live, the greater the potential for the human
race.

If we give up on space exploration now, we will be missing
out on valuable information which we have the capabilities of
knowing. We are an affluent and technologically advanced na-
tion. We are already doing all we can to tackle the problems
facing our nation, with people researching cures for cancer, vol-
unteering in soup kitchens, and working with the children that
are our future. We must devote money and resources, though
not to the same degree, to the exploration of space. If maintain-
ing our Earth is vital for our present well—being, than learning
all we can about our universe maybe just as imperative for our

Con
TRAN KIM, ‘O5

“So?” That was the first thought that came to my mind when I
heard that a Mars rover had come across some rocks on the red
planet. The NPR piece went on to say that scientists think that

these rocks could have possibly been formed from water, which“

would be a very thrilling discovery in their opinion. With all due
respect to science and technology, I frankly do not give a damn

_whether or not Mars had a drop of water on its planet two million

years ago, two days ago, or two hours ago. How does the_ discovery
of water impact my lifeand the lives of billions of people on earth?

Just when I thought that George W. Bush could not make any
more senseless policies, he disappoints me with this one that pro-
poses a $12 billion increase over five years on new space explora-
tion programs. He also wants the United States to return to the
moon——again. We already did it once and as fascinating as the
mission may have been, what was the point? There is nothing on
the moon but the moon and its rocks. If the astronauts had returned
with a critical element vital to the discovery of a treatment for can-
cer, I would applaud their mission.

The entire fallacy of the space program is in its basic endeavors
to quench a curiosity about life beyond earth and to somehow fulfill
America’s narcissistic sense of accomplishment. As amazing as these
accomplishments are, I am not terribly proud of them. When we
have discovered a way to combat poverty, to combat cancer, and all
the other problems that affect human beings on this planet, I will be
proud.

Here is the rundown of the problems that Americans face alone:
hunger, homelessness, lack of healthcare, joblessness, illnesses, etc.
The list doesn’t stop. These are the problems that we need to solve,
not why did Spirit malfunction. Why are we so eager to tinker with
tools and build space machines? Why aren’t we tinkering to end the
problems that destroy human beings on a daily basis? Space will
always be there for us to discover and enjoy, but will we be around
to discover in the future the way we are progressing now?

There’s an old saying that there is a time and place for every-
thing. At certain points in our lives, we are meant to do certain
things because it is the right moment. We can’t run without having
first learned to crawl. There are appropriate times to have fun and
there are times when we need to work, and as students, if you do not
know how to differentiate, you are probably on 'a course to failure.
Likewise, there is a time for us to discover space and enjoy all the
wonders that are beyond our planet, but this is not the time.

We are at a critical juncture in our lives when there are more
problems than ever before. We didn’t have diseases such as Aids,
Mad Cow Disease, the Chicken Flu, and the various cancers that kill
human beings. Nor did we have the large amounts of homelessness,
poverty, and social problems that also kill human beings. These are
the problems that we must tackle. Not until we have improved the
lives of human beings that we can move on to frivolous endeavors
such as Mars. The exploration of Mars, similar to the parties that
Washington and Lee students so delight in, are simply not impor-
tant to the real world and its problems.

The problems that plague the human race are not easy to solve
and it takes much time and energy, but I don’t believe that they are
impossible to solve. But we can’t simply give up and run away to
another issue simply because the first is a little too hard‘. When we
have the solution to ending poverty or curing cancer, the sense of
accomplishment will be much more satisfying than finding out there
is water on Mars. It’s the difference between getting an A in Profes-
sor Velasquez’s philosophy class and being able to guzzle a dozen
Bacardi shots at the bar.

 

The Supreme Court agreed

gOVCI‘l’1II1Cl1t I1CCdS an age

relevance of the 18-year-old

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 2,2004

but

4 more COURTESY or
END OF THE LINE- Capital punishment is a part of U.S. justice, but should minors be eligible for execution in the right circumstances, or should everyone under 18 be exempt from the laws that govern the death penalty?

rather life

last week to consider once
more the Constitutionality of
executing minors for death
penalty offenses. The
specific case is that of an
i n d i v i d u a I
named Chris
Simmons, who ,
was 17 when he '
robbed and
murdered a passerby. The
court, which is typically a 5-
4 conservative court, usually
upholds capital punishment,
but recently did decide
against the execution of the
mentally retarded and
incompetent, so the ruling on
this issue will be closely
watched. .

It’s my belief that age is a
number, and that it’s not
necessarily a measure of

  

limit for some things, like
voting, that wouldn’t

otherwise have a standard by’ 

which to go, the death
penalty is too serious to
enforce an

Wimfmj age limit law.
MODERATE SMUSINGS T h C
CALEYANDERsoN‘O6 argument is

there are

some minors who were
perfectly aware of what they
were doing, and chose to
commit a capital punishment
offenses nonetheless. I agree,
to a point, that such
individuals are deserving of
the death penalty Whether or
not a 13 year old would be
capable of doing this, I’m not
sure, but my point is that it
should be taken on a case by

age marker should be that
people 18 and above should
be assumed*to'be' comp eterrt
to stand a death penalty trial
(unless there’s some
extenuating circumstance,
such as mental retardation).

I’m not saying whether the
death penalty is a “good” or
“bad” issue, so no raging
letters to the editor on that,
please. My main idea is that,
as a matter of law, the
Supreme Court should rule
that execution of minors must
be upheld, but only in cases
where a very stringent
standard of competence has
been upheld.

To use a personal example,
when I was 16 and a high
school Junior, my particular
high school, Santana HS in

latest to be shot up. 15
students were injured, and an
additional two were killed. An

2El"(l'(':lit'i‘(5If3.’l” couple 'd6'Z'eT1' W""é'1'‘é "‘

shot at without being hit,
myself included. The lone
perpetrator of these killings
was convicted of murder and
attempted murder, and my
entire community was
watching closely to see
whether or not it would be
possible for him to be
executed. The controversy in
California was that a
referendum had specified that
minors could be tried as
adults, but no specification of
the death penalty was made.
The lawyers for the killer
challenged the law and lost,
and he was tried as an adult.
The prosecutor, however,
made the right decision and

penalty,
imprisonment. The student
was 15 when he fired the gun,
a1'id"the prosecutorbelieved
that that was too young to
be completely sure of what
he was doing. It is instances
like this that prove that our
judicial system is one that works.
Our prosecutors do not
automatically seek the highest
penalty, they seek the penalty
that they believe is just. The
whole system is oriented to
create a just result. In this case,
the shooter received a life
sentence with parole
possibilities at the age of 60.
Do I think this is right? It’s
difficult for me; one of those
who died was my friend, as
well as several who were
injured. I myself remember
him randomly selecting me as

me and firing, missing my
head high by about a foot.
Nevertheless, I can
sympathize a little bit with
him. He was an adolescent
who’s going through the
chaos of a public high school,
a chaos made worse by the
fact that he had just moved
there and was not exactly
getting along well with his
new peers. Certainly, I don’t
completely pity him and think
he should be treated
leniently, far from it. What I
believe in is the ability of a
court to look at and judge a
death penalty case fairly
based on the accused
individual. I had great
confidence in our judicial
system to deal with this issue
on its own when the accused
was guilty of a crime against

maturity. While the case basis.

Letter to the Editor

Finley wrong on Minority Weekend

Dear Editor,

After reading an article published on
January 19th, it is once again brought to our
attention that many students on campus do
not understand the issue of diversity that we
all face. The Princeton Review has ranked
W&L as the second most homogeneous cam-
pus in America. This is not a ranking to be
proud of, so it would be understandable that
the administration is trying to dispel this
title. The Minority Student weekends were
established to help the W&L community be-
come much more diverse.

These students are sent a letter from the
university stating what the weekend is a MI-
NORITY student weekend. These are stu-
dents from various areas and various ethnic
minorities who come for the weekend to see
what W&L is all about. The article written
by a Ms. Anne Finley would lead us to be-
lieve that these weekends are not “condu-
cive” to genuine diversity. She starts off
saying “You may have noticed an unusally
large number of prospectives on campus this
weekend.” How would she know this? It is
only because they were minority students.
Is 16 an unusually large number? Well, this
is how many minority students were on cam-
pus.

She claims to want diversity, but when
efforts are made to diversify the student
population, she has an issue with it. So let’s
get to the core of her motivation for writing
the article. As she stated herself, she was a
little “jealous” that her “minority” friend was

The only Santee, CA, became the

did not seek the death

a target, leveling’ his pistol at

me, and I still do.

invited to the campus for free. It is true that
Washington and Lee pays for the travel ex-
penses and meals in the dining hall for mi-
nority students visiting the campus for the
weekend, but do they not do the same for
athletes? If you are going to attack the sys-
tem for one group, you should attack it for
all groups involved. This practice is not
unique to only Washington and Lee. Many
other leading universities around the coun-
try including Williams College, Emory Col-
lege, Dartmouth College, and many others
have similar minority student weekends. She
states that “no one wants to feel that they
are only wanted for how they look on pa-
per”, yet aren’t we all statistics? The state
you come from makes you a statistic, your
gender makes you a statistic, your test
scores make you a statistic, and the fact that

_you were accepted into W&L makes you a

statistic. So this argument is invalid. The
article written was highly insensitive to all
minorities on campus.

It implies that minority students receive
preferential treatment solely based on their
race. This only propagates the notion that
minority students do not deserve to attend
W&L. Not only is this belief not true, but it
makes the minority student’s four years here
all the more difficult. If she truly believes
that we can improve diversity on our cam-
pus only by “changing our attitudes and ex-
uding a sense of openness and tolerance,”
she should have reexamine the premises of
her article, and apply this belief to the mi-
nority student weekend. If she or anyone
else is interested in minority affairs, feel free

to join the Minority Student Association,
which does not exclude anyone based on
race.

Sincerely,
Cherelle Moser
Marcus Banks
E’Lon Cohen
Cynthia Cheatham

Response from Anne Finley, ‘07

When I sit down to write an opinions edi-
torial, I do not try to be controversial. I do
not attempt to make my headlines inﬂamma-
tory to attract readers; in fact I have never
even written my own headlinefor these pieces.
I am deeply saddened that readers have found
my piece on the minority weekend insensitive,
because promoting tolerance and open-
mindedness has consistently been my primary

goal and topic throughout my first year as at

Ring-tum Phi columnist and Washington and
Lee Student. But let me respond the best I
can. First of all, I whole-heartedly agree that
the Princeton Review Rankings regarding
Washington and Lee’s homogenous structure
and lack of race interaction are not something
to be proud of. In fact, if readers still had a
copy of my first article from back in late Octo-
ber, my critic’s remarks sound like they could
have been a direct quote from it. We are on
the same side. Some particulars of my article
may not have been perfectly well-informed or
to their liking, but I maintain that the general
spirit of it was of the best intentions. I did not
mean to criticize the weekend or the valuable

work that the administration and MSA per-
form to help diversify our campus. I am glad
to hear that some minority students received
letters detailing the nature of the event, but I
still know personally of at least two instances
where this was not the case. My motivation
was not the personally—insulting suggestion
that I was merely jealous of my friend’s all-
expenses—paid trip to campus. I ask only that
people who would attack another’s article read
it carefully first and attempt to understand its
true spirit. So many of us read only the head-
line, rashly decide what they think it is say-
ing, and then respond harshly.

-Anne Finley

Letters policy

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all
responsible submissions and let-
ters. All submissions must be
emailed to phi @wlu.edu or in the
University Center mailbox by
5pm Friday to appear in the fol-
lowing Monday ’s Edition. The
Ring-tum Phi reserves the right
to edit submissions for content
and length.

‘>-

U

  

JOHNHYLAN)
AsnrANrS1>oRisEono1<
mm m

MONDAY, JANUARY 19,2004

Sf

 

PAGE 5

Mens’ hoops loses heartbreaker, storms back with solid victory

Team losses to no. 4 ranked Randolph-Macon,
comeback and beat Averett to advance record to 4-14

BY JOHN HYLAND
Ass1sTANT S1>oRTs EDITOR

The W&L men’s hoops
team dropped a tight home de-
cision to Randolph-Macon, the
fourth ranked team in the coun-

'try on Sunday afternoon but
turned around and took out
their frustration on Averett, in
a non-conference match-up to
improve their record to 4-14 on
the year.

The Generals struggled of-
fensively in the first half
against Randolph—Macon,
shooting just 32% from the ﬁeld
and only connecting on eight
field goals. They were able to
make their free throws and play
tough defense and trailed just
28-26 at halftime, as they looked

56 loss to the ODAC leader. The
Generals continued to hang
tight in the second half and
took the lead 40-39 with 13:11
remaining on a four point play
by freshman guard Chris
Halkitis. The Yellow Jackets
broke a 48-48 tie with 8:29 re-
maining and never trailed again.
The Generals would get as
close as three points with un-
der a minute left but the Yellow
Jackets were able to make their
free throws and preserve the 66-
61 vietory. It was a familiar sce-
nario for the Generals who have
consistently played good bas-
ketball against some of the best
teams in the country this year,
only to lose games in the ﬁnal
minutes. Halkitis contributed 19
points and 8 rebounds to lead

double figures by senior co-
captain Hamil Jones who added
10 points.

On Wednesday, the Gener-
als hosted winless Averett,
hoping that their solid efforts
could finally earn a victory.
W&L jumped out to an early
first half lead, shooting a solid
53% from the ﬁeld and using a
16-2 run to take a 41-25 halftime
lead. The Cougars started the
second half on a 9-2 run of their
own and closed the lead to 43-
36 but it was as close as they
would get. The Generals depth
was apparent throughout the
game as ten players got signiﬁ-
cant playing time. The Gener-
als bench outscored the start-
ers 53-29 for the game. W&L
was also able to use a distin-

to avenge an eary season 75-

Swim teams win ﬁna

BY ANN BANKER
STAFF WRHER
In their last home meet of the season, the Wash-
ington and Lee’s men ’s and women’s swim teams
defeated the Marymount Saints on Saturday after-
noon. The men’s ﬁnal score tallied 117-60. The la-
dies came out ahead in a tighter ﬁnish with a score

the Generals. He was joined in

guishable size advantage in

home meet against Marymount

400 Medley Relay that stole the show. Starting
off the relay with the 100 Back leg, Ritter swam an
impressive 5 1 .38. With this A-cut lime, Ritter broke
the pool record, making him only the second male
General to hold a record in the Cy Twombly Me-
morial Pool. ,
Overall, the men won seven individual

defeating the Cougars. Sopho-
more forward Phil Landes
scored a career high 20 points
and added 7 rebounds and
Jones contributed another 14.
The Generals outrebounded
the Cougars 48-30, led by 10
boards from Halkitis. Freshman
guard Coleman Lyons also had
a solid evening in scoring 14.
W&L was able to overcome a
paltry 18 of 34 performance
from the foul line by shooting
50% from the ﬂoor and hold the
Cougars to 38%.

Hopefully, the Generals
will use this victory to give
them added confidence when
they resume their conference
schedule. They played
Roanoke yesterday evening
and host Emory & Henry on
Wednesday.

STEVE NIARINOS

Gorr AIR. A General takes it to the goal in the team’s victory over Averett.

Eastern Mennonite downs womens’ basketball 98-59

W&L SPORTS RELEASE

HARRISONBURG, Va. —— Eastern
Mennonite used a 21-3 rim over 7:18 of the first
half ir1 cruising to a 98-59 win over Washington
and Lee in ODAC women’s basketball action on

Tuesday evening.

by as many as 42 points in the second stanza. The

_ 98 points were also the most ever scored against a

W&L women’s basketball team.

The Generals (8-10, 5-8), who shot just
25 .7 percent (9-35) in the first half, were paced by
sophomore guard Louisa Feve’s (Bethesda, Md./

of 106-97. events. Junior Chris Colby, sophomore Clark The Royals Winston Churchill) 22 points on 5-of-9 shooting
For the women, seniors Jackie Green and Barrineau, and freshmen Michael Ginder and (15-1, 11-1) helda from beyond the arc. Senior forward Sarah
Mandi Kimble each won an individual event. Green Kevin Hayes all placed ﬁrst, Barrineau and Ginder slim 16-12 lead with Michaels (Norfolk, Va./Norfolk Academy) added
won the 200 Fly, swimming it in 2:28.12. Kim le took in two events each. 12:01 remaining in 11 points.
the 1000 Free with a time of 11:42.19. The Generals have some down time before the ﬁrst half, but Carn'e Grandstaff paced ﬁve Royals in
Sophomore Kristine Holda and freshman Abbie their next meets, but by no means will their train- saw the lead balloon double-ﬁgures with 19 points on 5-of—6 shooting
Sauter also won individual races for the women. ing ease up. The men face their next challenge at to 23 points (49-26) from three-point range. Amanda Reynolds scored
Holda took first in the 200 Free and Sauter won the the Bluegrass Mountain Conference Champion- by halftime. The 18 points and Laura _Ludholtz contributed 13
200 Breast. ship starting Feb. 13. The ladies do not compete Royals shot 53.0 points and nine rebounds.
For the men,senior captain Eric Ritter was star again until Feb. 20 when they travel to Radford percent for the game Washington and Lee returns to action
of the meet. He placed first in the 200 Back with a for the ODAC Championships where they are and forced 22 W&L on Sunday as it hosts Roanoke for a 2:00 pm

time of 1:53.79, but it was his performance in the

ranked to win.

 

turnovers in leading

COIIICSI.

  

become a doctor.”

 

Rality:

“I don’t have the

      
    
     
 
   
 
   

  

   

H’
_   , required courses
7‘ TheJohns Hopkr ost—Bacca so ureate , ”
Premedica| Progr m for medical school.
graduates with‘ s   ng cadem' records to  
1

apply to the best sch Ols by giving
them the persona attentiol A ‘H e necessary
t science and mat courses, a  
academic advisin

 

' If you or someon you know wants to pursue a
career as a doctor apply by March 1.
For more informat n, visit , I
‘pp www.jhu.edulp<$s ac or call 410-516-7748.
IOHNS HOPKINS
Post-Baccalaureate
Premedical Program
" Wash & Lee Post Bac 04

 

  

PAGE 6

 



‘ MONDAY, FEBRUARY 2, 2004

Generals’ spring sports preview: lacrosse, baseball

Mens’ lax has high expectations

BY CAM GARNER
STAFF WRIFER ,

Loaded with talent, the W&L Men’s Lacrosse team is poised for
a truly stellar season thanks to a talented and experienced senior
class and depth at every position. A 10th place ranking in Faceoff
Magazine’s preseason poll does little to illustrate the potential this
year’s team has. “We have great team chemistry this year,” says
senior midﬁelder and Co-Captain Jimmy “Hunka” Zunka, “Everyone,
including a large number of freshman, will contribute this season. . .the
team is gelling already.” You are right, Jimmy, gellin’ like a felon.

Anchoring a defense that led the ODAC in goals allowed (83) is
two-year starting goalie and Captain Ansel Sanders. Averaging 5.88
goals allowed and a .608 save percentage at the end of last season,
Ansel garnered First Team All-ODAC and Honorable Mention All-
American status last season and will no doubt build on their accom-
plishments in his senior campaign. Backing Sanders up is freshman
standout Chris “dollaz” Lalli, who will do his best to ﬁll the shoes of
departed netminder Pat “” Casey.

The defense also returns Senior Captain Lawson “Grumbino”
Grumbine and Junior Eric Koch, two physical defenders that helped
Ansel shut opponents down last season. Stepping into the starting
role at the third close-defense position is Junior Bill “Bruiser” Fox,
who is ready to lay down a beating or two this season. “Koch, Ansel
and I have played together for two years now, and Fox will step right
in and play well for us...our defense will be one of the best in the
ODAC again this season” says Grumbine.

Kenny Rasanmy will assume the longstick midﬁeld responsibili-
ties, ﬁlling the void left by the departure of All-American Matt Conners.
Junior Ben Morris and Freshman Peter Goodwin will share time at
longstick midﬁeld as well. Zunka, Junior Adam Chesbrough and Fresh-
man Charlie Clark will handle the defensive midﬁeld for the Generals.
The team will use a number of different players to attempt to replace
starting Faceoff middie and Captain Tommy Melanson. Juniors Mike
Baracco and Adam Chesbrough, along with freshman Corey Gaber
will each take their share of draws this season.

In the midﬁeld, the Generals return a number of key players.
Senior captain Dustin “I’m the man” Martin returns after a great
junior season in which he had 22 goals and 9 assists, earning him
First Team All-ODAC and Honorable Mention All-America honors.
Rounding out the first midﬁeld are seniors Mark McLewee (15,10)
and Mike McNamara (4,2). McNamara missed a substantial portion
of his junior season due to a knee injury but as senior midﬁelder Rich
“chicks” Williams puts it, “this season is the return of the booosh.”

The second unit is much more green, featuring freshmen Jim
Ryan and Matt Arcati, and sophomore Perrin “actually, I’m wearing
three collars” Monroe (3, 0). Although they are '
young, Head Coach Mike Cerino will be looking
to the young, talented second line to provide a
solid scoring punch that will take a bit of pres-
sure off the attack unit.

Leading the attack again this year are Senior
Matt Fink and Junior Gavin Molinelli. Fink paced
the team with 35 points last season, while
Molinelli produced 31 points and was named
Honorable Mention All-ODAC last season. The
third attack position will feature a number of dif-
ferent players this season. Senior Rich Vlfrlliams,
Juniors Body “Jack” Murray and Gabe Katz, and
Freshmen Grant Martin and Jason Fitzsirnmons
will all rotate through the attack this year. “Ev—
eryone who steps into that third attack spot will
contribute, especially Body, I mean, the guy had
four goals in practice the other day, how do you
stop that?” Williams mused.

This year is looking up for the Generals as
they start the season hotter than the vinyl ﬂames
on Ansel’s truck. The squad opens the season
at Greensboro on Febuary 20th and faces a strong
Washington College team the 28th. Come sup-
port the Generals this year as they seek their third
straight apperance in the ODAC ﬁnals and a run
at the NCAA tournament; Lord knows I’ll be

here

Womens’ lax looks to continue success

BY SARAH BLOOM
STAFF WRIIER

After a 2003 season of success after success, the Women’s
Lacrosse team returns to the ﬁelds to train and practice for what
they hope to be another proud season for the Generals.

“This season we are trying to take it to the next step and com-
pete with the top teams in Division III,” said senior Kelly Taffe. Taffe
was recognized last season as a ﬁrst—team All-ODAC attacker along
with her teammate, senior goalie Joanna Perini. Perini and Taffe will
team up with nineother returning starters to guide the Generals to
victory this season. .

Leading the efforts will be Coach Jan Hathom. Hathom also left

last season with honors. Named the Intercollegiate Women’s La-

crosse Coaches Association Di-
vision III South Atlantic Coach
of the Year by her colleagues,
Hathom led her team all the way
to the Division III National Cham-
pionship last year. Hathom does
not intend to hold anything back
this year.

“Our coach has set a very chal-
lenging schedule for us and is
giving us the chance to step it
up a notch,” explained Taffe. “We
are practicing with more intensity
and setting our goals much
higher.”

Indeed, the rankings suggest
that the Generals have reason to
be proud. According to Lacrosse
Magazine Preseason Division III
polls, the Women’s Lacrosse
team ranked in the top ten of Di-
vision III teams.

As far as goals for the season
go, Taffe sums that up when she
says, “We plan to make it past
the ﬁrst round of NCAAsl”

«r=-. .> :' .
Courussv Sroms INroRMA'noN

Baseball hopes to build
on last year’s success  

BY JOHN HYLAND
ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITOR

After ﬁnishing 2003 with one of the best seasons in school his- ,

tory, the W&L baseball team will try to eclipse last years heroics by
capturing an ODAC championship. Last year that goal eluded them.
The Generals ﬁnished 28-8 before falling to perennial ODAC jugger-
naut Virginia Wesleyan in the conference ﬁnals.

The bad news for the Generals is that they will have to overcome
the loss of three outstanding players to graduation, all of whom
received postseason accolades. Centerﬁelder Bobby Littlehale hit
.362 last season with one homerun and 23 RBI in addition to playing
standout defense, ﬁrst baseman Brian Gladysz, hit .358 with 4 homers
and 33 RBIs and ODAC player of the year shortstop/pitcher Michael
Hanson hit .371 with 5 homers and 23 RBIs and now plays in the
Atlanta Braves farm system.

The good news for the Generals is that their stellar pitching
corps remains virtually intact, a terriﬁc sign for a team contending for
a conference championship. The rotation is led by senior lefthander
Peter Dean, an all-state performer a season ago, going 8-2 with 1.67
ERA. Joining Dean in the starting rotation will be fellow seniors and
righthanders Mike Wert and Dan Kagey. Wert was 7-1 last season
with a 3.73 ERA while Kagey ﬁnished 7-3 with a 3.05 ERA. Kagey will
also be looked to for his bat as one of the most experienced hitters in
the Generals lineup. Playing the outﬁeld when not on the mound,
Kagey hit .274 with 10 RBIs.

The Generals will also rely upon senior righthander Bryan
Mulhem as both a starter and in relief. A season ago, Mulhem was 3-
1 with a 2.29 ERA in ten appearances. Just as importantly, Mulhem is
perhaps the best returning hitter in the ODAC. He will primarily be an
outﬁelderwhen not pitching. He was another all-State performer last
season, leading the team with a .392 average, 6 homers and 48 RBIs.
Mulhem will be joined in the bullpen by junior righthanders Brian
Higgins and Ken Hackman, who will get plenty more innings than
they did a year ago.

Mulhem and Kagey, along with junior catcher Zach Bausch will
solidify the middle of the lineup. Bausch hit .355 with 4 homers and 33
RBIs last year. Austin Allain will try to do his best to ﬁll Hanson’s
shoes. The senior will shift from second base to shortstop and will
assume the leadoff position. Last year, he hit .289 with a homerun and
33 RBIs and was second
on the team in runs
scored. The rest of the
lineup remains some-
what of a question mark.
Senior Paul Sibley and
juniors Chris Chaplin
and Warren Hunter pla-
tooned in the outﬁeld
last season and will be
expected to get even
more at—bats. Junior
Adam Bullock will likely
be the everyday third
baseman where he split ‘
time a year ago with
sophomore Scott
Gosselink, who moves
over to second. Sopho-
more Taylor McConnell
will likely start at ﬁrst. If
these players succeed in
assuming larger roles in
2004, the team will be in
great position to top last year’s heroics.

- Hunter gives the best outlook for the upcoming season, believ-
ing, “despite some of the question marks at the bottom of our lineup,
we will go as far as our pitching takes us.” The Generals hope that
superb pitching staff will take them to a conference championship.
Their season opens on February l6tlr at Oglethorpe.

  THIS WEEK’s SCI-EDULE

Tuesday, February 3 Wednesday, February 4 Thursday, February 5 Friday, February 6 ‘Saturday, February 7 Sunday, F 9171744112)’ 3
0 W Basketball at 0 M Basketball vs. Emory 0 Open 0 W Basketball at 0 Wrestling at Albright 0 M Basketball vs.
Randolph-Macon and Henry-- 7:00 Guilford-- 7:00 T ri--11 :00 Lynchburg--3:00
Women ’s--7:00 0 M Basketball at 0 Track at Christopher
Hampden-Sydney Newport-- TBA

Ring-tum Phi

bhamaiws -#1 Simian! tau Operator

    

4»

$'fS'fRAVEl..COM

c/:m~1>eO'~..:cz:

   

teoasasasee J ststrwchtaua

Golf Etiquette Tip of the
Week:

If cl group is playing the course faster
than you, let them pass.

» #1 Spring Break Vacationsl

Cancun, Jamaica, Acapulco, Bahamas &
Florida. Best Parties, Best Hotels, Best Prices!
Group Discounts, Organizers Travel Free!
Space is limited! Book Now & Save!
l-800-234-7007
endlesssummertours.com

V’

\’

 

 

PAGE 7

 

MEGANMORGAN
ARTS &l..lPEEDll‘OR

EMAlLMORGANMl@WlU.EDU

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 2, 2004

More than mainstream: Calvin Awkward meets Greeks

BY KELLY JO LARSEN
STAFF WRITER

Frats, frats, frats. In honor of another year of
rush and pledgeship, we are featuring a student of
fraternal diversity. Calvin Awkward is among only
a handful of minority students in the Greek Sys-
tem; a sophomore history and politics major from
Accokeek, Maryland, he is a member of Chi Psi
Fraternity.

Looking back, Calvin rushed almost by acci-
dent. “Initially I wasn’t even thinking of rushing.
The thought hadn’t even crossed my mind,” Calvin
recalls. “If I would rush I knew I would go to a
historically black fraternity. But, I wasn’t going to
go to a historically black school.” Calvin came to
W&L for a lot of reasons including the academic
reputation, ﬁnancial aid and the small town atmo-
sphere. “I’m scared of big universities. There are
too many people,” Calvin explains.

Freshman year, Calvin started building friend-
ships in many of the houses across campus. “I
started building bonds with people and I realized

how much it [rushing] could affect me in the fu-
ture,” he recalls. In the end he decided to partici-
pate in formal rush. “I was one of only four African-
Americans who rushed last year. Surprisingly, that
was about 25% of the black freshman.” For Calvin,
it came down to SPE and Chi Psi, but he said that in
the end Chi Psi was where he would toss his hat.
“Halfway through fall term, I was calling the Lodge
my home. My bonds at Chi Psi were so much closer.
I really had a great bond with every guy in that
house. It wasn’t something I could ignore.”
Calvin is one of only a few African-Ameri-
cans active in the Greek system. Often, Calvin ex-
plains, blacks don’t rush because it’s “harder to
find a comfortable place in the system.” Also, many
are legacies at black fraternities and sororities or
their families won’t allow them to rush. “The black
community is not separate by choice,” he says.
“Like anyone else, you are attracted to people
you most connect with. Consciously, I don’t think
people try to build barriers. No group tries to com-
pletely separate itself from other people.” Calvin
explains, “The negative rumors turn them off to

the Greek system. There are problems in the sys-
tem, but there are problem between the majority
and minority in a lot of settings. There are prob-
lems that are everywhere; it’s just a lot more vis-
ible here.”

Calvin doesn’t buy into most of the stereo-
types about the Greek system though. “Person-
ally, I haven’t had an experience that would make
me question it [the Greek system] or make me won-
der,” Calvin says. “I’ ve felt accepted everywhere.
I’ve been accepted by those ‘racist’ frats. I really
don’t think that there are any real ‘racist’ frats.
There are racist people, not racist houses.” As for
rush, “it’s not the color of skin, it’s more the per-
son,” Calvin holds. “If you’re a cool guy and they
like you, they’ll give you a bid. If you’re an
asshole, they’ll kick you to the curb.”

Calvin has been successful in crossing over
into what is often seen as the “white students”
activity of fraternity life. Often, black students
have reported feeling “shunned” by their fellow
minority students after deciding to rush. Calvin
disagrees with this though. “I think it’s getting

better. I was treated no different by my black
friends after rushing.” This was aided partly by
Calvin taking an active role in the minority com-
munity. He serves as an officer in both the MSA
and in the gospel choir. He has also tried to en-
courage more minority students to rush. “I felt it
was my job to inform them about the rumors, the
drawbacks and the positive things about the Greek
system,” Calvin said. He was pleased that he man-
aged to get two black males to consider rushing;
though they decided not to in the end, they both
expressed thanks that they had at least given the
Greek system a chance. To other black freshmen,
he offers this advice: “Have fun here at W&L.
Experience new things, make new friends. Go out
into the community and become involved. You
only go to college once and the friendship and
memories you build will be with you forever.” Af-
ter all, Calvin explains, “Your experience at W&L
is what you make it. If you spend 4 years of your
W&L career saying that this place sucks, it is re-
ally gonna suck. I love this school. I feel like where
I am, with the support I have, I’ve been accepted.”

WASHINGTON AND LEE DEMOCRATIC MOCK CONVENTION 2004

 

JEB BROOKS

JEB BROOKS

HE TUM

Mock Con Memories. From the excitement of the parade to the energy in the Warner Center, many
students shed their conservative leanings to become Democrats for a day or two. The event was called a
success by most attendees. Speakers such as James Carville and Governor Mark Warner inspired students

JEB BROOKS / THE RING-TUM PHI

to work hard to make their final predictions. After all the delegate votes had been tallied, Kerry-Edwards
was the ticket the 2004 Washington and Lee Democratic Mock Convention chose. Washington and Lee
students will ﬁnd out how accurate their prediction is after the real Democratic Convention injuly.

  
   

JEB BROOKS

THE RING- TUM PHI

JEB BROOKS / THE RING-TUM PHI

University

The Ring-tum Phi wishes
the W&L student body

Thanks to
everyone who

good luck on upcoming midterrns

Cleaners

THE CLEANEST OF THE CLEAN.
CALL US FOR ALL OF YOUR DRY CLEANING, "

LAUNDRY AND ALTERATIONS NEEDS

Short walk to W & L and downtown. Remodeled C 
. r 1885 Historic home on Institute Hill. New kitchen
Great Service

with all new appliances. 4 B/R, 1 1/2 Bath, storage
F1rst—Rate Quality

made

HOME FOR SALE
704 No. Main St., Lexington

room and large laundry/workroom with washer &
dryer. Shows like a model home. Asking $229,000.

f l
Call (540) 464-3738 30 Success u

7 North Jefferson Street
463-3622

dry cleaning,
laundry, alterations

- ~.....__m

1'

 

 

PAGE 8 A

There’s this theory ﬂoating around about
college students. It goes something like this:

_college is a clean slate. No matter who you were
‘ before, you can go away, break out of your mold,
' and recreate yourself in college. Essentially, in

this new environment, you can be whoever you
want to be.

Sounds great on paper, right? The implica-
tions seem pretty sweet. You can
escape all the labels you've drawn
in the past, escape the niche that’s 
been dug for you in the pre-col-
lege world, and make a completely

  

new persona for yourself. You can go from band

geek to frat lord. You can go from unpopular
nerd to a hook-up master. In theory, there are no
limitations. The sky’s the limit, right?

Not quite. There is one thing we are limited

. _ by — ourselves. While we may be able to change

our behavior, our actions, or choices, it’s not
quite so easy to change our personalities. It’s

‘- not like we can just wake up one day and say‘
’ “Today I will be a different person.” It just

doesn’t work that way.

But some people try. To some people, it’s
so important to escape their “high school trap”
that they’ll try almost anything to experience
something new — even to the point where they’ll
try to be a different person. But it seems some-

. _: times that no matter how hard you try, it’s im-
L possible to escape that past...it’s always there,

at home, waiting for you to come back to it.

‘That’s what this article is about, the two differ-

Administration must CI

mABSOlﬁFllA”l'LORD
TIM SMIIH ‘O4

""""""""""""""" " about how they slept with some

 

ent worlds that we may never be able to recon-
cile — the college world and the home world.

No one can simply change themselves in an ‘

instant. Trying to do so probably causes more
harm than good — instead of making things bet-
ter for yourself, you cause self-doubt. You seem
fake to others. It’s transparent. Frat lords see
this behavior in freshman rather often — you
know those guys who decide
“W&L is my world” as soon as
they get here. They -come up
with those ridiculous stories

celebrity’s sister, or how they drank two cases
of beer once without even getting a buzz. They
try to impress us with this facade they’ve tossed
together, when really, all they show is the confi-
dence-issues of a guy who’s trying to escape
his high school past as soon as possible. Don’t
get me wrong — these aren’t bad guys by any
means. They just try to do too much too soon,
and in the wrong manner.

It is possible to change, or rather, to evolve
in college. I consider myself living proof.
Though I couldn’t necessarily prove that I’m a
different person, I can say confidently that I’m
more comfortable with myself now that ever be-
fore. People can interpret it however they want,
as loosening up, or as breaking out my shell, or
as some hypothetical descent into debauchery.
But to look at it that way is to miss the point.
Sure, I might act differently now than I ever did
in high school (much to the chagrin of my once-

MBGANMORGAN
A1us&LIIEDIIoI<
EMAI;MoRGANvr@w1IJIIIJ

proud parents...I know you’re reading this
Mom), but it’s not about breaking out of some
mold. It’s not about testing limitations. Instead,
it’s about comfort, about happiness, about self-
approval. As my undergrad years are approach-
ing their conclusion, I can finally say with con-
fidence that Tim Smith is an OK guy. '

So, while it may take time, college can pro-
vide that opportunity to evolve as a person. But
here’s the problem — people at home don’t want

‘ you to evolve. People at home want you to be

exactly the same as you always were, to fit the
preconceived notions that they’ve had for years.

High school is about stereotypes. It doesn’t
take a private viewing of “Not Another Teen
Movie” to figure out this truth. But what is it
about these labels that makes people want to
cling to them as long as possible??

Here’s an example. Once in a while at home,
I‘ll end up at some party where there are high
school folks I haven’t seen for years. Inevita-
bly, they’ll notice the beer in my hand, and sud-
denly all hell breaks loose: “Tim, You Drink! I
never knew you drank!" This has happened
more than once. Apparently, if you’re Tim
Smith, you are forbidden from enjoying a frosty
ice-cold beverage, because the label people
have attached to you doesn’t allow it. How
quaint.

People at home, unless you stay very close
with them, don’t bother to follow your life.
They don’t bother to think about you’ve
changed in your other college world. They pre-

BY JEB BROOKS
EDITOR IN CHIEF

The decision to bring
Washington and Lee stu-
dents, faculty and staff to

_ , campus last week was a bad
i one. Stories of cars careen—

ing, students stumbling and
faculty falling were all the
buzz while the Washington
and Lee community waited

» out last week’s snow storm

on The Hill.

The administration’s de-
cision ran counter to its as-
sumed purpose of keeping

P; students safe. Schools, busi-

nesses and other institutions
all over the region recognized
that opening during one of
the most treacherous storms
in recent history would be a
mistake. They remained

, closed.

Physical Plant workers
can do only so much when
snow and ice fall at such a
rate that the Colonnade side

7:: of the Lee Chapel path is al-

ready covered with winter
precipitation by the time

_ :. shovels have gotten to the
‘- bottom. As usual, the men

and women of that depart-
ment did an excellent job.
The weather was simply too

A A quick for any worker to stay

on top of.

The advice to “use your
best judgment and not come
in until roads have im-

proved” is hardly acceptable.
Students who decide not to
come in miss class time, which
they must make up for no fault
of their own. Other students
feel compelled to attend
classes regardless of such a
warning and come in despite
the grave danger of making
such a decision.

Students at Washington
and Lee will live off campus
along routes that the Virginia
Department of Transporta-
tion may or may not suffi-
ciently clear. University poli-
cies must recognize that re-
ality.

Unfortunately, it will
likely take student deaths to
make the administration
stand up and take notice of
the need to occasionally can-
cel classes because of
weather.

Thanks go to the faculty
who realized the danger and
decided that the safety of
their students was more im-
portant than the content of
their courses.

In short, the administra-
tors who decided to keep
Washington and Lee open for
“business as usual” took a
big risk.

Gentlemen, I urge you to
reconsider your decision mak-
ing process to account for the
dangerous conditions faced
by students, faculty and staff
who live off campus.

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 2, 2004

A Theory of college evolution: changing your high school mold

fer to cling to their insulated rigid stereotyped
notions as long as they can, to the point where
they can’t bring themselves to comprehend the
person you’ve evolved into. To them, you will
always be “football star’s ex-girlfriend” or
“band-geek Valedictorian” or “grunge—stoner—
depression guy.” That’s what they knew you
as then. Why" should they bother to think of
you differently?

In college, there is some liberation. True,
we can’t just conjure up a new personality from
scratch — this isn’t some kind of “College Eye
for the High School Guy” makeover. But col-
lege at least frees us from those previous la-
bels, if only long enough to allows us to evolve
as people. We may not want to change. We
may not choose to. But college does provide
that opportunity, for those who choose to grasp
it.

But be aware, always, that the other world
will always exist. I know full well what I’m in
for when I travel home. I’m facing a host of
rigid-minded twerps who all too often refuse to
see me for anything else other than what they
expect. I have to deal with that, and usually, I
deal with it by returning to Lexington as quickly
as possible. Here, I can be myself, be the per-
son I’m comfortable with, without getting crazy
looks or shocked reactions.

High school was fun while it lasted. Now
let us all agree to pretend that high school never
happened. Maybe, just maybe, we’d all be a
little bit better off.

nange weather policy to keep students alive

FILE PHOTO / THERING-TUM PHI

When major snowstorms hit the Washington and Lee campus, Physical Plant workers can only do so much. The administration must begin to be
more conscience about student 

“is

 

.' .;1Q Professors need to ﬁgure out that there are
’ two Heaths in the Groupwise address book, An-

drew and John.

_Q Wow! Ronnie Dugger so inspired me I’m

headed to the polls for Dennis next Tuesday.

Q I wish I had a million billion dollars.

' L Q “AH(EN, S.C. (AP) — James Brown was released

from jail Thursday on a domestic violence charge
and told not to contact the wife he’s accused of
pushing to the ﬂoor.” Hrnrn, maybe To the-Nines

wasn’t such a bad choice after all.

Q Why is Oklahoma so windy? Because Kansas
sucks and Texas blows!

» Q I’m starting a napping club in my room. Any-
one want to join? Graham—Lees dumpster side.

Q Best T—shirt slogan that was not approved
for print: “Michigan— at least our illegal immigrants
are from Canada.”

Q Why do they clear the entrance to the old
bookstore when it snows? Is it vital to have ac-
cess to this empty building?

Q I said “gay” out loud the other day, meaning
festive, and some girl shushed me. PC people piss
me off.

Q You are the jelly in my peanut butter and jelly
sandwich. No wait, you’re the bread.

Q Something in their workout makes Lacrosse
players really booty-licious and apparently the
ladies can’t get enough of that ghetto booty. Hey,
l’d tap that.

Q Chaz—dunk has a really nice derriere and word
on the street is Lolli is handsomely endowed. To-
gether, they make the perfect man.

Q I thought the video clips circulating via e-
mail were hilarious enough, but even in my
drunken stupor, the live act made me convulse
with laughter.

Q Best pick-up line from a freshman KA: ‘‘I am
willing to risk it if you are.”

Q Yes, that was a live phone call from Wes Clark.

Q Would someone please tell me who this Kah
is that everyone keeps talking about?

Q Diversity at W&L: What color North Face
jacket do you wear?

Q The ladies of the Puerto Rican bobsled team
are the most fun people on campus.

Q «Guys, let’s not depend on our hook—ups and
their roommates for condoms. After all, the Health
Center does give them out for free . . . with bells on.

Q Girls, with this many date functions, there is
no reason why you can’t cover every guy at W&L
before you start importing.

Q When wearing extremely tight pants on the
Hill, be cautious of putting your hands in your
pockets. What happens if you start to fall and can’t
get your hands out in time?

Q Did anyone else hear the anonymous Ohio
delegation ofﬁcer saying how much she would like

to sleep with James Carville?

Q How about the anonymous California delega-
tion girls noting the sexiness of Wes Clark’s son?

Q Michael Denbow is destined to be a game
show host.

Q Don’t forget: Today is Groundhog Day.

Q How does James Carville do it? “She’s on the
bottom.”

Q W&L Men’s Swimming beat Marymount on
Saturday to finish the season 7-0 for their first un-
defeated season in years. And, it’s Coach
Shinoﬁeld’s first year.

Q All those sketchy RCHS girls at the Windfall
party really added to the atmosphere. But the RCHS

pages at the Convention were hot.

Q Did anyone else see the prison guard in leather
on the California ﬂoat?

Q Who was that guy in the Clinton mask during
the platform debate?

Q Kudos to those who held up a Bush/Cheney
‘04 sign during the nominating speeches.

Q Shedding a single tear: Sid Vicious of the Sex
Pistols died today in 1979.

Q In happier news, Shakira turns 27 today.

Q At press time, the Super Bowl wasn’t yet de-
cided. Congratulations to the winning team.

Q Brett Kirwan is NOT a tool! He’s my hero.

Q E-mail your anonymous Quick Hits and plans
for Washington Break to phi@wlu.edu.

‘V

/\

 

 

.L

RtWt0tt PHI

liiestndent ooice ofll’/nsiiington rind Lee University since 1897

zaé

Spring Term saved
Board sides with Burish

Six week academic program remains with necessary

BY KATIE J. HOWELL
EDITORIAL DIRECTOR

Spring Term is here to stay. Washington and Lee’s board of trustees
voted unanimously Friday afternoon to keep the six-week term a univer-
sity tradition after university President Thomas Burish and other admin-
istrators recommended the decision earlier that day.

“We are keeping spring term, and I think it’s the right decision,”
said Philip Norwood, rector of the board.

The decision came after months of study and deliberation by faculty,
administrators and board members. Money was the main factor for initially
questioning the future of Spring Term. Norwood believes that the board
has found a way to keep the shortened term a feasible option for W&L.

Students and faculty can expect to see two major changes in the
current way the thirty-three-year-old tradition is administered. Stu-
dents will be expected to take a minimum course load of six credits
during spring terms for three out of their four years at Washington and
Lee. Students could take spring terms during their first three years, and
then graduate in late April or early May of their senior year.

Current students need not worry about these changes just yet, how-
ever. A press release issued by the board announced that the improved 12-
12-6 calendar system will not take effect until the 2007 -2008 academic year.

In order to prepare for these changes, however, the board expects the
university to ﬁnancially prepare for the change during the next few years.

' Norwood said that tuition hikes for both undergraduate and law
students are a likely option for providing the funds to make the l2—l2—6
calendar system a fiscal reality for W&L.

“The tuition hikes won’t be pertinent for the coming calendar
year,” Norwood said. “The utilization of tuition dollars may be just as
important as the hikes. This is all a function of limited resources and
the allocation of those resources.”

The university began studying the academic and ﬁnancial implications
of the current l2-12-6 calendar system after former president John Elrod
announced that the school would move toward a ﬁve-course teaching load
per year for faculty. He wanted to make the institution’s teaching loads
comparable to peer schools in order to attract competitive faculty.

The new 12-12-6 calendar that the board has selected will allow faculty
to teach an average of six courses per year. Professors currently teach seven
courses each year. Norwood said that the proposed system will also reduce
the teaching load to 5.5 courses by the calendar year 2011-2012.

Makingthis decisionhasnotbeenaneasyonefortheboard Studying

Board shows support for
Traveller, allots $181,000

BY PATRICIA BALLANTYNE
sENIOR STAFF WRITER

The Washington and Lee
Board of Trustees voted to give
the Traveller program $181,275
during their winter meeting last
weekend.

With this new money,
Traveller will become a primary
system of transportation for
W&L students. “We will be
able to put more vehicles on the
road,” said Bailey Edwards, the
Chair of the Traveller Commit-
tee.

Starting in the Fall of 2004,
when this budget begins, Trav-
eller willhave six contracted
vans driving a route and up to
four dispatched drivers. The
committee will start getting
these new vehicles together this
year.

“This is more than three
times the number of vehicles
we provide now,” said
Edwards. “You will not have
to wait as long to get a ride,
most likely, under 5 min-
utes.”

Most of the current com-
plaints toward the Traveller pro-
gram address the lengthy wait
that students must bare before
ﬁnding a safe ride home. The
Traveller Committee is deter-
mined to apply this money to-
ward a decrease in this delay.
The Traveller Committee will
also spend some of its gener-
ous budget on cars for volun-
teer drivers, “so that the weekly
volunteers will no longer have
to drive their own cars,” said
Edwards.

Students will be able to re-
ceive rides from Traveller ev-
ery night of the week.

“This appropriation

shows that the Trustees are
deeply committed to ensure the
safety of all W&L students,”
said Edwards.

But the Alumni Association
also demonstrated strong support
for the improvements to W&L’s
safe ride system. Under leader-
ship of President J immy Brooks,
the Alumni Association has
pledged to donate money to Trav-
eﬂer ‘

The money from the Alumni
Association may be directed to-
ward Traveller sponsored educa-
tion programs. These would in-
clude speakers, a possible con-
trolled drinking and driving ex-
periment, and pledges not to
drink and driver similar to the
Christmas Weekend successful
effort.

While students have orga-
nized the Traveller Committee,
advisor, Dean Dawn Watkins,
has supported their dedication
and worked closely with the
committee. Dean Watkins
serves as the administrative
support for the Board of Trust-
ees Campus Life Committee,
which sponsored the Traveller
proposal for the full Board’s
vote.

“It’s been my pleasure to
work with the Traveller Cornmit—
tee,” said Dean Watkins. “Under
Bailey’s leadership the Traveller
Committee has spent long hours
examining and evaluating the cur-
rent program to implement a plan
that supports our students and
encourages responsible decision
making.”

“This is a good day for W&L
students. We worked hard to
make Traveller better serve the
W&L students, and we are
pleased with the result,” said
Edwards.

 

hages and ossible tuition hike

JEB BROOKS / THE RING-TUM PH1

DECISION. Executive Committee President Helen Hughes, RectorPhilip Norwoodand UniversityPrmident Thomas Burish discusthenew 12-12-6 calmrdar.

the ﬁnancial models prepared and presented by faculty and administrators
has shownthatthe new 12- 1 2-6 model will be achallenging yet attainable goal.
“Everything has a price  Norwood said. “Among those price tags
are not only the hiring of additional faculty but also more ofﬁce space.”
The university hopes to hire 15-25 additional faculty during the next
three years. Norwood expects this change to carry a large price tag.
“This is the type of thing where some donor could say, ‘I want to take
this yoke off your shoulders, and I want to pay for all of it.’ We would need

a $100 million  Norwood said. “We’ve never had a donor that big.”

While the above situation is more hypothetical than reality, the
board expects to raise the money necessary to implement the calen-
dar changes through tuition increases, endowments and a change in
the pricing of university services like room and board.

The law school will maintain its current calendar system with
two fourteen-week semesters.

For CAMPUS REACTIONS, see page 2

  Three fraternity pledgeships
suspended for allegedhazing incidents

BY ERIN JULIUS
NEWS EDITOR v

Security is investigating three fraternities for suspicion of hazing.

According to University officials, hazing is not congruent with
University expectations of honor and civility and therefore threaten the
preservation of the Greek system.

“Should an investigation yield nothing the new member education
processes would proceed. Should an investigation yield hazing by an
individual, the case would go before the Student Faculty Hearing Board.
Should it yield hazing by a group it would go before the Inter-Fratemity
Council,” said Dean Watkins.

Fraternity President and New Member Educators were informed of
the expectations for New Member Education at the beginning of the
eight—week period. N o hazing activity was specifically one of these
expectations.

EB ROOs H NG-TUM H

 

....................  2 0
MONDAY, FEBRUARY9, 2004 :1;

The mew member activities have" been suspended to ensure the
safety of new members, which could be jeopardized by the type of
activities that have been reported to the University.

According to University ofﬁcials, the alleged conduct is in direct
contravention of institutional policies.

Freshmen men were encouraged to report any hazing incidents
to the relevant fraternity leadership and to the Inter-Fraternity Coun-

oil.

The Inter-Fraterrrity Council’s policy on hazing is as follows;
“N o initiation or pledge training activity shall constitute any physical
or emotional hazard to the individual. Such potential hazards include
alcohol abuse, dangerous physical exertion or exhaustion, physical
or emotional violence, paddling and other types of abuse.”

The University deﬁnes hazing as, “a harassing, excessive task
associated with initiation or membership in an organization.”

Dried blood, bandage found in Southern Inn meatloaf

BY SARAHAMURRAY
STAFF WRITER

For most visitors, Mock
Convention’s only irritation was the
barrage of potatoes ﬁom the Idaho
parade ﬂoat. But one visitor from

tauranttoinformthemanagerofthe
incident The manager immediately
removed the bandage from the table
and offered the Irm’s apologies as
wellasafreemealanddessert Parian
refused the dessert, “the last thing
thatIwantisadessertthatiscov—

Alabama found cause to complain ered in WI-HT‘E whipped creme and
when he un- . . RED berry
embed a used the last thing that Iyvant IS a Sauce’ both of
bandage in his dessert that is covered In WHITE which woukl be
meatloaf at the Whipped creme and RED berry ﬁne targets for
50UTh6m II1I1- sauce, both of which would be hidden DNA-
Ranfiall ﬁne targets for hidden DNA Pam“ has riot
“Cade”ParIan,a ﬁledacomplarnt
ﬁrst-yearlaw studentatSamfordUni- withtheV1rginiaHealth Department,
versity, came to Lexington lastweek- whose regulations stipulate that res-
endtoseeafarnilyfriend Parian and taurants’ food mustbe“safe and un-
several others decided to have lunch adllltera "-
at the Southern Inn between ‘Mock Though Paxian enjoyed Mock
Convention events. Convention, he was less pleased
Inthemiddle ofearjnghismeal, with the Southern Inn’s slow ser-

Parian felt a strange, “not so
meatloafey” object between his teeth.
Removing it, he discovered that it
was a bandage partly ﬁlled with old
blood.

Parian attracted the clientele’s
attention by “screaming a profan-
ity” and by calling across the res-

vice. In fact, after several com-
plaints to the staff, he joked with
his party that the staff “is going to
spit in your food if you guys don’t
shut up.” Shortly afterwards, the
food—bandage included——was
delivered to the table. The South-
ern lnn had no comment.

 

    

kg-9..

wrisnr WEE

- -it
““""““""ers“'i"?”“vs’w‘srrv

Li::.(t3""!;‘;‘i'T}IN, VA 244$

PAGE 2

pg ‘ti ??’i*‘i‘~5*

Plans in place to
improve safety of 1-81  

BY PATRICIA BALLANTYNE
SENIOR STAFF WRrrER

Interstate 81 is still irnprov-
ing despite statewide attention
to long-terrn proposals.

Transportation agencies
are using technology to help in-
terstate travel. And lawmakers
are introducing legislation to in-
crease the safety of I-81.

As part of the Smart Travel
Virginia program, Rockbridge
County’s VDOT district is plac-
ing three cameras on I-81 and
one on interstate 64. They will
be up this spring, but 26 more
willfollow.

“We have to make sure ev-
erything is working with the soft-
ware,” said Eric Goiton VDOT’s
Public Relations Assistant for
the Staunton district. “We will
learn lessons when putting them
up.”

“In other parts of the state
where cameras have been used,
they’ve been very helpful,” said
Sergeant Mike Honaker of the
Virginia State Police.

Drivers on I-81 can now see
Road and Weather Information
Systems (RWIS), which look like
space-age little towers with ra-
dio antennas. They detect the
air temperature, pavement tem-
perature, and wind speed. Their
sensors count vehicles travel-
ing in either direction and deter-
mine tractor trailers from passen-
ger cars.

Both the cameras and
RWIS give information for the
six Changeable Message Signs

, that now straddle the interstate

in Lexington’s district. VDOT
and the state police use these
signs to relay messages about
accidents and delays to oncom-
ing traffic.

“If you give motorists ad-
vanced warning, maybe they
can go a different way,” said
Gorton. “And that cuts down the

P

delay, keeping the trafﬁc mov-
ing better.”

“Basically, our View has al-
ways been that highway safety
involves three areas: education,
engineering, and enforcement.
The signs are more of an aspect
of the engineering and education
side,” said Honaker. “It does
seem effective in communicating
with the motoring public.”

Legislation from Delegate
Ben Cline and Delegate Chris
Saxmon also target the currentl-
81 status.

Saxmon is pushing for a pi-
lot program for 1-8 1, which would
last a year and involve a state-
wide director to focus on safety
for the interstate. Another one
of his Bills would prohibit trucks
from using the far left lane to pass
in areas of more than two lanes.

Cline’s recent I-81 House Bill
calls for more police presence on
the interstate. Not only does he
want ten new Virginia state troop-
ers, but he also pushes to fur-
nish out-of-date cars to rest in
the median and act as decoys to
slow trafﬁc.

“Studies have shown that
presence of police directly im-
pacts speed, which directly low-
ers the number of accidents,”
said Cline.

The third aspect of Cline’s
proposal would require third
passing lanes on steep portions
of 1-8 1 , which would allow trucks
to slow down. Honaker said that
if people would obey traffic laws
and the speed limit most of the
interstate safety problems
wouldn’t exist.

“We’ve never been so fo-
cused and committed as three
agencies to make the interstates
as safe as possible,” said
Honaker. “The Interstate is safe
now. These improvements are a
normal adjustment to maintain
the safe condition of the high-

79

way.

BY CATHERINE SWAN
sENIoR STAFF WRHER

 

 

The V-Day movement will make its mark at Washington and
Lee this week with the production of The Vagina Monologues
February 11 and 12 in the Commons Theater. V-Day is an organized
worldwide effort that seeks to stop violence against women.

The purpose of the event is to raise awareness of violence
against women while supporting organizations that provide ser-
vices to women affected by violence and sexual assault.

The Women’s Student Law Organization is organizing the pro-
duction of The Vagina Monologues, but other organizations, in-
cluding KEWL and CAIR, are contributing to the V-Day efforts.

Hidden Hero Ansel

Senior Ansel Sanders is this week’s hidden hero for his excep-
tional work on the 12- 1 2-6 Committee. Last spring Ansel and EC Presi-
dent Helen Hughes formed 12-12-6, a_ group that could openly voice
the opinion of the student body.

12-12-6 actively sought to inﬂuence the faculty when they made
their vote earlier this year when they made their vote concerning the
calendar. This vote inﬂuenced the Board of Trustees’ recent decision.

12-12-6 was made of a diverse selection of students, to give the
most unbiased student voice regarding the calendar decision. Ansel
acted ofﬁcially as the liaison between the faculty and the actual com-
mittee and was responsible for delivering the student proposals and

  

reporting back to the
committee withthefaculty
responses. HIDDEN HEROES '

A ii s e 1 JORDAN ANDE-‘RSON’07 came to W&L
from his ________________________________________________________ __ hometown of
Weems, Vir- ginia because
he was searching for a

quality small liberal arts college and Washington and Lee ﬁt the bill.
Lacrosse was a huge draw as he enters as goalie for his fourth year.

Spring Term was also among his favorite aspects of the school. It
has “academic possibilities you cannot have at other times,” with the
variety of classes and opportunities that professors offer speciﬁcally
during the six week term. He also said that the student body is amaz-
ing, that we are “what makes this place special.”

Ansel is an English Major and said that he could not name a
favorite professor if he tried; “it would be like picking names out of a
hat, because they are all amazing,” he said.

Following graduation, Ansel will be working with Teach for
America, teaching middle school English up in Baltimore. As a senior,
his advice to other students is to enjoy the opportunities and experi-
ences here while you can. Also, take advantage of all the school has to
offer. Thanks to the efforts of Sanders and the 12- 12-6 Committee, the
academic potential will continue to be as diverse and enriching as
possible with the retention of Spring Term.

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 2004

speaks for students

 

STEVEN MARrNos / THE RING-7vMPH1
Heroics. As head of the 12-12-6 Committee, Ansel Sanders led student
body input regarding Spring Term.

The Ring—tum Phi solicits nominations for students, faculty and
staff whom you believe to be Hidden Heroes. If you know of some-
one who contributes quietly, please submit your Hidden Hero nomi-
nations to phi@wlu.edu.

Students react positively to calendar change

type of people working for us,”
“I think it’s phenomenal, it’s

a good decision for the school, it

preserves the character of the

BY ERIN JULIUS
NEWS EDITOR

Saturday afternoon stu-

dents receivedanemail announc- school,” said dents and fac— abroads and I can’t commit a
ing the Board’s decision to pre- Tom Borda, I couldn’t ask for a group ulty there was whole semester, so Spring Term
serve a modiﬁed version of the ’06,“I also like ample time for is good for that,” said Afsin
12-12-6 calendar. Campus reac- taking a 6- of Pe0P1€ who cared 30 input from the Yurdakul, ’06, an international
tion seemed overwhelmingly credit Spring much about the students three groups,” student. ‘

positive. Term only and about the school said Brian Not all students were thrilled

“I can’t tell you how im- three out of ' Castleberry, with the preservation of Spring I

pressed I was with the way the four years so HELENHUGHES, ’04. “Student Term

meeting ran,” said EC President when you’re a SPEAKING ABOU1->1-HERO ARD input was led “It’s been said that we would
Helen Hughes after presenting senior gradu- by Ansel Sand- get out earlier and have a longer
student views to the Board. “I ating you have RESIDENT ers and Helen Christmas break if it were a two-
couldn’t askfora group ofpeople more time to Hughes who semester system,” said Megan

who cared so much about the
students and about the school.
We’re very lucky to have this

spend with your job or your in-
temship. It’s a very good way to
solve the problem,” he said.

ay increases domestic abuse awareness on campus

The Vagina Monologues were performed two years ago at W&L
and were well received. Event organizers plan to continue support-
ing V-Day events each year, either by a performance of the mono-
logues or other events that promote awareness of violence against
women.

There are several ways students can support V-Day. The first is
by attending The Vagina Monologues, this Wednesday and Thurs-

day at 7:00 in the Commons Theater. Admission is $12 in advance, ‘

and $15 at the door. Donations will be collected for Project Horizon
at each performance. Student organizations are encouraged to spon-
sor a care package for families leaving the local shelter. The organi-
zations are looking to raise $6000 from ticket sales and individual
contributions.

University Commons.

14 and March 6.

Participate in the 2004 Literacy Campaign
The campaign runs from Jan 19-March 12.

- Book drive, with drop-off points at the W&L Library and the

- “Lunch Bunch” at the Best Seller Bookstore. Children bring a
bagged lunch and for a book reading and craft. Ages 4-7 from 11:00 -
12:00 on Feb 7, 14, 28, and March 6. Ages 8-12 from 12:00 to 1:00 on Feb

Questions? Contact Steve Martinenza martinenzas@wlu.edu

WA TCHFOR
THE NEXT
ISSUE or
THE PHI
MARCH 1!

Need a rest from
everyday life?

Treat yourself to a luxurious
full body massage by

 H 31" I’ 119', BA, CMT

‘Certiﬁed Massage Therapist
Board of Nursing C'ert1'ﬂ'ed
13 Years Experience

Gift Certiﬁcates Make
Great Valentine’s Presents!

(540) 264-0063

 

ATTENTION STUDENTS!!!!!

HOUSE FOR RENT
“In the Country”

Next School Term
Lease begins June 2004

3654 Collierstown Rd.
4 Bedroom, fully furnished

$1200/mo.

Call Nancy Allison at
James Wm Moore Real Estate
28 South Main St. - 463-7080

“The process was handled
in the correct way. Once the Ad-
ministration realized how big an
issue this was to the alumni stu-

Students of all backgrounds
value Spring Term. “Although
I’m already studying abroad, I
want to do some other studying

did a good job of expressing, in a
well-developed manner, the stu-
dent feelings,” he said.

Murphy, ’07, “although I do like
the six weeks to be able to go
abroad,” she said.

Correction

In last week’s article headlined, “Donate to save Music Festival,”
we incorrectly implied that the administration had cancelled Buf-
falo Creek Music Festival because of liability concerns. Actually,
the administration informed festival organizers that using frater-
nity funds for the event violated national rules. Additionally,
university ofﬁcials began encouraging organizers to fundraise
for the events in January. If you would like to contribute to the
Buffalo Creek Fund, please contact Inge Hill at hillrn@wlu.edu.

 

WE CAN DO IT!

Repairs ~ Contacts

COOL FRAMES!
HOT LENSES!
SHADES!

reerrrew oarucczreore

20 years serving Rockbridge
at 203 N. Main Street, Lexington
463-7440

 
    

Gr.-am Lstsnrrzttr RRNGEL
i’£iA?E3rx’¥LE7£M\‘l2'ER i>.»tsrz~:r.1-'3

 

549-451-344?

309 N. thin St.

 

Lexirigtori, VA 24450

 

1‘

 

 

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 2004

'2 't:i~’.ix3::-"ii.-t.:i?a3 «
« )lTORlAL

Mock Con behavior inexcusable

Provost Tom Williams’ letter (found on
page four of this weekls Phi) causes con-
cern for us. The behavior he relates in that
letteris unquestionably egregious. The Wash-
ington and Lee community has a responsibil-
ity to the larger Lexington and Rockbridge
area We-have a duty to behave like respon-
sible adults. Our behavior at the Mock Con-
vention Parade is apparently evidence that
we are unable to do so.

The images presented in the letter are
ones more often associated with a Saturday
night fraternity party than a Friday morning at
a middle school.

We understand that Mock Convention
happens only once in our four years and that
it is important to live up the event. But what
possible reason can we have for behaving
like iriibeciles?

No wonder media coverage was sparse
when these are the images we present. Don’t
get us wrong, we thought Mock Con was an .
otherwise smashing success.

The behavior of a small nmnber of stu-
dents, however, was less than acceptable. It
is to those students that we now turn.

We are role models for younger students
in the community. A role model is not ar-
rested at a middle school for drinking too
much. A role model does not vomit off the
back of a poorly constructed ﬂoat. A role
model does not leave beer bottles tucked be-
hind a school bus. A role model does not
relieve herself in front of a classroom win-
dow.

We’re the ones with egg on our faces
this time. Last week, we did not portray our-
selves as the responsible young adults we are.
Instead, we acted less mature than the middle
school students who gawked at our actions.

Maury River Middle School: We are not
able to apologize for the entire student body,
but we can speak for ourselves. The staff of
the Ring-tum Phi would like to apologize for
any offensive behavior we might have en-
gaged in. We hope other members of the stu-
dent bodyarewillingtotakethesarne action.
We are sorry.

 

“The Secret Service is under strict orders that
if Bush is shot, to shoot Quayle immediately.”

~Democratic Front-Runner John Kerry,
during the term of George H.W. Bush.

CAiEvANDiisoN
OPlNIOl\5FDllOR

mm m

 

PAGE 3

more COURTESY or tmluaology.wlu.edu

SPRING DIGGING. These archaelogy students were enrollediriAnthropology 377, aﬁeldarrliaelogiral course offereddu.ririgSpririg Tenn, one of many savedbythe 12-12-6 decision

Washington and Lee is a very unique school with a whole host
of very old traditions. Some students find a few of our unique
traditions questionable (understandably), such as our dominant
Greek scene, or our decades—old alcohol culture. What we are all
agreed on, though, is that those traditions that make Washington
and Lee unique as an academic institution are hallowed, and must
not be altered lest our beloved University lose its soul. Why does

a student come to Washington and Lee instead of an Amherst or a‘

Williams or a Claremont—McKenna? What makes us different from
all the rest? '

I can think of a dozen reasons, but they all
tie in to one important piece of philosophy that
the University adheres to— students come to this
university to learn, and the goal is simply to al-
low them to learn and_live in the most effective

  

manner possible, “nothing more", and nothing less. What makes’

our school unique? Our classes are taught by the professors
themselves (all of whom, without question, are experts who excel
in their fields), and not by graduate students or teaching assis-
tants. Our class sizes (for the most part) are very small, and you
get a lot of individual attention should you desire it. Our Honor
System is the best in the nation, and even though it’s only a very
few students who are dismissed each year, the result is dramatic-
The Honor System is a way of life for students, we all feel safe
taking the word of our peers, and we enjoy privileges like self-
scheduled exams. Additionally, Washington and Lee is one of the
safest campuses around. The things that make us unique are of-
ten the same things that make us strong.

This Saturday, the Board of Trustees announced its decision
on the fate of another of the institutions that make Washington
and Lee unique— Spring Term. Though it only dates back to the
1970s, Spring Term creates many advantages for students, which
I’m sure are all familiar to you by now— wider catalog, special study

lli6iEiii~i‘§Mils“niéE


programs, more classes in general, and so on. Though it has its
costs (which we’re also familiar with), Spring Term provides
unique opportunities and experiences to W&L students. For in-
stance, in my own freshman Spring Term alone, I had the oppor-
tunity to take a course in French history from a visiting Oxford
professor.

We, of course, will not keep our full four-year Spring Term as
it exists today, but the need to change it is real, and there’s a
very good case for the three-year Spring Term, as well as the
other measures that are being implemented to cut costs. Still,
our 12-12-6 schedule remains essentially intact.
Many members of our community worked to save
Spring Term. The hard work of both the 12-12-6 Com-
mittee and our tireless Executive Committee can not
be overestimated. A majority of the faculty, our
teachers, stood up for us as well. But in the end, it came down to
our administrators. ' 5 I

And, I am happy to report this week, our administrators did
not let us down. Though there was great fear that the President
and the Board of Trustees might betray the students’ vision of a
unique and special University, those fears proved unfounded.

What President Burish has proven to us through his recom-
mendation, and what the Board of Trustees has proven through
their decision, is that they are not out to “Swarthmorify” Wash-
ington and Lee. They have proven with more than words that
they value the things that make our University’s academic expe-
rience special. They have proven with decisive action that they
place the students of Washington and Lee above both money
and mere rankings in U.S. News. I can now look forward to many
classes of students passing through Washington and Lee and
sharing the same amazing and enlightening experience that I’m
enjoying right now. For this, I thank and salute President Burish
and the Board of Trustees. ‘

Editor in chief
Assistant Editor

News Editor

Opinions Editor

Asst. Opinions Editor
Arts & Life Editor

Asst. Arts & Life Editor
Photography Editor

 

_PHI

Jeb Brooks

Kyle Wass

Erin Julius

Caley Anderson
Anne Finley
Megan Morgan
Chris Lauderman
Cody Gabbard

Asst. Sports Editors John Hyland

Chad Kiewiet de Jonge
Emily Edwards

Kelly Jo Larsen
Alexa Moutevalis
Kate Zawyrucha
Sarah Beth Campbell
Vanessa Amess
Aubrey Miner

Production Assistants

Copy Editors

Paul Seifert
David Seifert
Stuart Presnell
Rob Rain
Thomas Worthy

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee Univer-
sity, Lexington, Virginia. The Ring-turn Phi is a member of
The Publications Board, but is otherwise independent

The Ring—tum Phi welcomes all responsible sub-
missions and letters. All submissions must be e-mailed
to phi@wlu.edu or in the University Center mailbox by
5 p.m. Friday to appear in the following weeks edition.
The Ring—tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions
for content and length. Letters and columns do not
necessarily reflect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi
Editorial Board. Advertising does not reﬂect the opin-
ions of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper
observes current court deﬁnitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
University Commons Room. 341
Washington and lee University

Lexington, Virginia 24450
Telephone: ( 540) 458-4060

Fax: (540) 458-4059

Email: phi @wlu.edu

Subscription rate $40

Business Manager
Asst. Business Mgr.
Circulation Director
Asst. Circulation Dir.
Distribution Dir

To have loved and lost or never to have loved at all?

I have been pondering the age old question
of whether or not it is better to have loved and
lost or to have never loved at all. I remember first
being posed this dilemma in 8"‘ grade by my his-
tory teacher, and I have yet to reach a conclu-
sion. Thus far, however, I have tended to follow
the path of choosing to not love at all. As a
young girl, I wanted to be like a boy and carried
myself like one, yelling in gym class and trying
to be as aggressive as my short frame would al-
low me because I thought they had all the fun. I
always had an internal competition with them for
some reason. It might have been
the result of a negative experience
as a very young child in which some
boys in my neighborhood picked
on me and would not let me play
with their toys. When crying didn’t work to
change their demeanor, I resorted to toughness.

But as I grew up, I still maintained an emo-
tional distance from boys because of my nega-
tive experience. In middle school, relationships
never made any sense to me because they lasted
for about two weeks, if that. I remember having
one crush for a whole year on just one boy
(though I never talked to him) and thought it was
very peculiar that everyone else’s crushes ﬂue-
tuated like fashion statements. So I just didn’t
trust the entity of romantic relationships. Ihave
begun to live in fear of a romantic relationship as a
result of seeing my friends’ hearts break too many
times in high school and college.

I have dated, but I end those relationships
quickly because I am very aware of how time
affects a relationship’s progression despite my
lack of personal experience. I end it just right

— before I fall for a guy and ironically just when a

guy falls for me. Yes, it is somewhat cruel, but

 

m'y policy has always been me first, guy second,
as harsh as that may be. Usually, my excuse for
ending things is that the guy is immature, incon-
siderate, has annoying habits, is arrogant, or just
doesn’t get it. I am not saying that the guys
weren’t what I just described, but I rarely if ever
informed them of their disagreeable behavior and
would just cut off communication without any
explanation. Since the relationship hadn’t meant
that much to me yet, I simply assumed it meant
just as little to the guy and didn’t think I needed
to offer any type of explanation.

I can tolerate most
things, but the one thing that
Ihave the most difficulty grap-
pling with is betrayal by any
person within my circle. Ini-
tially, I would simply act as if I didn’t care be-
cause I also have my dignity to uphold. On the
outside, I would appear untouched by the brutal
behavior, but inside, I would be falling apart.
Nothing is more painful in my opinion than a
cold shoulder from a trusted friend. I have seen
how it affects others, and I do not want the same
to happen to me. Most of us at this age are
emotionally immature and irresponsible, not re-

alizing the painful consequences of our actions, '

and I take this into consideration wheneverl meet
a guy. And once this reality hits me, I am handi-
capped from opening any passageway into my
heart. All doors and windows automatically shut.

However, I wonder if I have perhaps missed
out on the chance to be in love, or at least expe-
rience young puppy love because of my barri-
cading fears of being hurt. I have observed some
very fruitful relationships that have lasted and
are the epitome of what a loving and devoted
relationship should be. When I see a truly happy

couple or hear a good love story, my doors and
windows creak open a small bit, but never all the
way. Even when the love is real and devoted,
there is still pain. My father’s love for my mother
is an example of this. They were each other’s first
love and met in the aftermath of the Vietnam War
and ﬂed together to Cambodia. Through their
relationship, they had been each other’s support,
strength, and reason to fight and survive the per-
ils of the Cambodia/Vietnam jungles. But my
mother died in Cambodia when I was two and to
this day, twenty years later, my father still remem-
bers her as though she had just died twenty days
ago. He dreams about her, he speaks to her in his
dreams, and she is in his every thought and ac-
tion. He has never been able to love since, al-
though he has dated. That was the biggest loss
of his life, and he is still recovering. I doubt he
will ever fully recover and move on. I once posed
this question to him, and he said that he would
rather have loved my mother and lost her than to
have never experienced their love at all.

So I am slowly, very, very slowly, widening
the passageways because I do believe in true love.
I hope that you all do too regardless of whatever
pains you may have experienced in past and
present relationships. Sometimes the pain is nec-
essary and unavoidable, like long distances, but a
lot of the times, the pain is unnecessary and sim-
ply destructive, and it is this pain that you need,
to abandon. As long as you remain in this rela-
tionship, you will be as caged as me and miss out
on the chance to really experience the real thing.
One of my philosophies in life is to never settle
for things I can unsettle, so my statement to you
is‘ to never settle when it comes to love because
unlike purses in Chinatown, the real thing cannot
be imitated.

 

Male Bonding. Theater students, playing Hamlet’s Guildenstern and Rosencrantz, exemplify the fraternity emphasis on quality male time which makes plato

         

Greek system discourages interaction between guys and gals

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 2004

the day when the possibility of such relationships is more viable.

The Greek system is amazing. It enables
freshman to drink for free in the fall, and
pay for it during pledgeship. And most of
all it gives all students something to do ev-
ery night, whether that be a band party,
poker tournament, or just some random ac-
tivity.

I didn’t really understand
just how great the Greek sys-
tem was until I went back home
and talked to some of my old
high school friends who went to colleges
where there were no fraternities. The sto-
ries were terrible. A typical Friday or Satur-
day night included finding a 21 year old to
buy them a case of beer, then driving around
all night, looking for a BYOB party so that
they could drink their precious liquid. Sounds
like fun huh?

Fraternities don’t just give you a place
to drink. They are so much more than that.
Fraternities give every guy instant friends
and roommates...wait... let me rephrase
that. Fraternities give each and every guy
instant GUY friends and GUY roommates.

   

Letters to the Editor

Dean Watkins seeks to clarify,
correct article on Buffalo Creek.

I want to make sure to note my extreme dis-
agreement with two statements in the article
“Donate to save Music Festival”: “The
fundraising is a recent announcement by the
adminstration that the festival could not con-
tinue due to liability concerns.” and “The late
announcement of the decision to discontinue
the festival . . . .”

Corrections:

1) Festival organizers were told by the Univer-
sity in October that use of fraternity funds for the
event violated national organization policies.

2) Festival organizers were told in Novem-
ber by a national fraternity representative that
use of fraternity funds for the event violated
national organization policies.

3) I spoke with the key festival organizer in
January and explained that the University encour-
aged them to begin fundraising activities since it
would not be possible for them to use fraternity or
University money to support the event.

We have NEVER said they can’t have their
own festival - we’ve just said we can’t allow
them to break policies to do it and we advised
them of their legal responisbilities and risks they
are incurring should they decide to offer the
event

As you can see by this timeline, festival
organizers were informed one month into this
academic school year and the institution should
not be held responsible for late attempts at fund
raising. S

Sincerely,
Dawn Watkins
Dean of Students

POTATOMAN
 ‘O7 perience, and examine how I

It wasn’t until last week’s Ring-tum Phi,
featuring an article by Tim Smith (you may
know him as Absolut Fratlord), that I realized
the imperfections of the Greek System. While
his article, headlined “Theory of college evo-
lution: changing your high school mold”, had
nothing to do with the Greek
System, it did get me to think
back on my high school ex-

have changed.

Unlike many other
people, I loved high school. It was fun and
crazy, and the friendships I made during those
four years will last a lifetime. I partied and
even did a little work occasionally. Not much
different from college I guess. But wait, more
than half of my friends from high school were
girls. I only have a handful of really good
girl friends in good 01’ Lex.

It took me a while to figure out just why
this change from high school. Did a girl do
me wrong, and now am I trying to avoid them?
God no. Avoid girls? Moi? Not likely. DoI
smell? Well yes, but it’s not like they run

from me desperately looking for a clothespin
to put on their nose to stop the unbearable
stench from entering their airways.

Then it hit me. The Greek system does
not allow guys and girls to have close friend-
ships. Before I go any further, I should prob-
ably clarify something. I am not talking about
hookup buddies, or even girlfriends, these
things are very different from nonsexual,
purely platonic friendships with a member of
the opposite sex.

The first semester is full of freshman guys
trying to prove their masculinity to upper-
classmen in fraternities in the hopes of re-
ceiving a bid. These same guys try to im-
press girls in a similar way. They lay down
the “watch me shotgun this beer, vomit, and
make an ass out of myself, but don’t worry in
high school I drank a whole handle of vodka
once, so I’ll be fine” routine. It is impossible
to form a consistent friendship with a member
of the opposite sex when you are passed out
in the frat basement.

After a little bit of college experience,
freshman guys are thrust into the winter term,

Generals ungentlemanly and
un/adylike during Mock Convention.

FILE PHOTO

nic female friendships extremely difficult. Potato Man hopes for

more notably, pledgeship. A lot of guys
don’t even have time to shower (thus the
reason I smell), much less start or continue
friendships with girls. So once again, a nor-
mal friendship with a female is put off until
spring term, by which time a freshman has
been fraternitized, and will forever be known
as a frat guy, and is changed forever.

I am not complaining by any means. I
wouldn’t trade the friends that I have made
through the fraternity for anything. I feel
free to be myself now more than ever. And I
sure as heck wouldn’t trade a Greek school
for a non-Greek school. I like poker on
Wednesday nights and band parties on Fri-
days. Driving around looking for a bunch
of cars in front of house where there might
be a party just doesn’t sound like fun to me.
I already did that...its called junior year in
high school.

But isn’t there someway to even the see-
saw between male and female friends? If you
can ﬁgure it out let me know. I don’t have time
to figure it out now though, but I think if I hurry
I might just be able to squeeze in a quick shower.

  

Today I spoke with the principal of the Maury River
Middle School, having called her to clear up some sto-
ries I had heard from a variety of sources. Last Friday,
the Mock Convention Parade formed in the parking lot
of this school. She reported the following, based upon
her ﬁrst—hand observation Friday morning.

1) Washington and Lee students asked, and were
granted permission to use the school’s bathrooms.
After a while the noise and prevalent odor of alcohol
resulting from this use caused her to ask the W&L
students to leave, which they did. Shortly thereafter,
our students found another entrance to the school
and began to enter again, against her expressed
wishes.

2) Washington and Lee students were urinating
outdoors, visible from the windows of the school.

3) A Washington and Lee student was seen vom-
iting from the back of a ﬂoat while it was in the school
parking area.

4) Beer was left in the school parking lot.

I cannot imagine anyone here at Washington and
Lee defending this behavior, in this place, as accept-
able. The report of this behavior raises the following
questions:

How should we, as a community, express our re-
grets and offer retribution to the Maury River Middle
School?

What should we do to assure we, as a commu-
nity, behave with more respect towards our neigh-
bors in the future?

The great majority of what I heard and saw of
this year’s Mock Convention was quite positive.
Nonetheless, this does not excuse the actions de-
scribed above.

Sincerely
H.T. Williams, Provost

A WANTED:

Summer Scholars Counselors

June 30 — July 31, 2004

Are you looking for a great chance to be a mentor and to experience working with high school students
while staying at W&L for the month of July? The Washington and Lee Summer Scholars Program is an
exciting four Week academic program for approximately 150 rising high school seniors. We are looking for
responsible students to help guide participants and to plan extracurricular activities such as talent shows, lip
syncs, weekend hikes, trips to Goshen and more. ‘

For information about the position please contact Dr. Mimi Milner Elrod at 458-8727. You may pick up
an application from her in the Summer Scholars Office located in the Hill House.

The deadline for turning in applications is February 27, 2004.

 

Moisronoceuﬁs

FEBRUARY 1 i & 12

7PM

ELROD COMMONS THEATER

$1 2 in advance

$15 at the door

All proﬁts to beneﬁt Missing Women of Juarez
and Covington Shelter for Women

DAV

UNTIL THE VQOLENCE STOPS
wa.am.-ajmamzm

SPONSORED BY THE WOMEN LAW STUDENTS ORGANIZATION

Peace Corps

Life is calling. ﬂfowfar will you go?

    

Speak w/1’/7 a recru/"fer and retumeo’ volunteer at one of
these 1/,oco/n/ng on-campus events and/eam why the
Peace Corps /19 507/ me ‘tong/yes!/ob you7/ ever /ave/”

Wednesday, February 1'!

Information Table

10:00 a.m. - 2:00 p.m.- 7:00 p.m.
John Elrod Commons Career Services
Room 345

For more information contact Jason Kaneat
800-424-8580 or /7rane@,oeaceco/ps. gov.

800-424-8530

  

 

Information Session

www.peacecorps.gc

JOHNHYLAAD
AstrANrS1>oiusEnnoA
FMAll:HYlAND@Ww.Pl)U
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 2004

  

S .

var‘  {}~Tt.?trtl)t-
RT§

 

PAGE 5

Womens’ basketball drops three to ODAC competition

BY ALLISON PERRY
CONTRIBUTING EDITOR

The Washington and Lee women’s basketball
team lost three ODAC conference games this week
to Roanoke, Randolph-Macon Woman’s College,
and Guilford. 1

Roanoke slipped past the Generals, 50-47, last
Sunday at home. The Maroons took control of the
lead with only 0:50 left in the first half and contin-
ued to stay ahead for the rest of the game.

Roanoke reached its largest lead at 47-40 with
3:11 left in the game, but the Generals soon closed
in on the gap. Freshman forward Jessica Hunsinger
sank her shot to put the score at 49-47. But
Roanoke’s freshman guard Cindy McGraw made a
foul shot with only 0:25 left in the game to reach the
ﬁnal score of 50-47.

Sophomore guard Louisa Feve scored a total
of 15 points and had 9 rebounds for the day.
Hunsinger totaled 13 points and 13 rebounds. Jun-
ior guard Bethany Darinelly also contributed with
11 points.

Leading the Maroons in points was senior

guard Meghan McCue with nine points and three
rebounds. McGraw totaled eight points and two
rebounds for the game.

The two teams were about even in shooting
percentage from the field with 35 percent for
Roanoke and 30.9 percent for Washington and Lee.
The Generals had 15 turnovers, while the Maroons
only had eight.

The Generals lost another close game to
Randolph-Macon Woman’s College on Tuesday,
57-41.

Washington and Lee controlled the lead up
until 10:09 in the first half, but RMWC turned it
around and led 29-22 at the end of the half. The
WildCats never let go of the lead, ending the game
at 57-41.

Senior forward Sarah Michaels totaled 14
points and 12 rebounds for the Generals. Hunsinger
also posted 12 points and 15 rebounds.

For the VVildCats, senior guard Amy Dameron
tallied 19 points and 9 rebounds; Sophomore for-
ward Megan Stensrud added 12 points to the score.

The VV1ldCats dominated in shooting with 33.9

ARINOS

BRING rr ON. Freshman Chris Halkitis takes on a defender in one of the team’s losses this past Week.

Men’s basketball enters new slump after win

BY SARAH BLOOM
STAFF WRITER

Despite coming off of a win to Roanoke, the men’s
basketball team fell back in to a slump Wednesday when
they took on Emory and Henry. The game was a close one
(49-48), but the Generals couldn’t hang on for the win. Emory
and Henry swished a three-pointer with 4.8 seconds re-

maining in the game to secure the victory.

Freshman Chris Halkitis lead the Generals with 16

Landes. Landes followed his teammate with 13 points.
Next the team competed against 8th ranked Hampden
Sydeny. The game ended in complete victory for Hampden
Sydney (76-45). Though the game started somewhat slowly,
the Hampden Sydney quickly took over the courts and never

looked back.

The Generals didn’t play without a good ﬁght." Fresh-
man Coleman Lyons earned 14 points for the Generals. Se-
niors Hamill Jones and sophomore Matt Lawless each scored

percent, compared to the Generals’ 24.1 percent.
RMWC also had fewer turnovers with only 1 1. The
Generals tallied 19 turnovers.

Washington and Lee also lost on the road to
Guilford on Friday, 69-38.

The Generals brieﬂy took the lead with 7:25
left in the first half when junior forward Emily Barker
hit a jumper to put the score at 17-19. But the Quak-
ers came back and took control for the rest of the
game.

Hunsinger tallied 14 points and 14 rebounds
to lead the way for Washington and Lee. Michaels
also added 12 points and 3 rebounds for the Gener-
als.

Senior guard Dara Burke totaled ten points and
seven rebounds for the Quakers.

Guilford shot 45.8 percent during the game and
had 19 turnovers. Washington and Lee had 26
percent shooting from the ﬁeld and 23 turnovers.

The Generals are now 8-13 and 5-11 in the
ODAC. Washington and Lee meets up with
Lynchburg at home for another ODAC contest on
Tuesday. Game time is scheduled for 7:00 p.m.

  

COURTESY SPORTS INFORMATION

LEADING THE TEAM. Freshman Jessica Hunsinger
helped lead the team in scoring in recent games.

Wrestling loses two
at Albright tri-meet

Albright

Little (W&L), Fall 1:56

165- Joe Selba (JH) def. Walter
3 Hoyt (W&L), Fall :49

184- Rob Curry (JH) def. Max

ALBRIGHT 39, W&L 3

149- Corey Little (W &L)
def.Brandon Cuffee (AC), 10-5
165- Ezra Montesino (AC) def.
Walter Hoyt (W&L), Fall 40
184- Eric Drew (AC) def. Max
Courtney (W&L), 8-5

HE ING-TUM HI

W&L vs. CENTENARY
COLLEGEWRESTLERS

Harris (CC), 12-4

Hoyt (W&L), Fall 2: 15

Courtney, Injury Default

tri-meet results

A JOHNS HOPKINS 58, W&L 0
149 -Tirn Hulme (JH) def. Corey

Courtney (W&L), Maj. Dec. 13-2

149- Corey Little (W&L) def. Isiah
165- Ken Jacoby (CC) def. Walter

184- Keith Kubicek (CC) def. Max

W&L SPORTS RELEASE

READING, Pa. —- The Washington
and Lee wrestling team dropped a pair of
matches in the Albright tri-meet on Satur-
day afternoon. The Generals fell to Cen-
temiial Conference foe Johns Hopkins, 58-
0, before losing to Albright, 39-3, in non-
conference action.

Senior 149-pounder Corey Little.
(Charlotte, N .C./Independence) recorded
W&L’s (0-6, 0-4) only dual—meet victory
of the day when he scored a 10-5 decision
over Albright’s Brandon Cuffee. Little also
picked up a victory over Centenary Col-
lege grappler Isiah Harris. He won that
bout with a 12-4 major decision.

W&L will be back on the mat next
Saturday at 12:00 noon when it competes
in the Muhlenberg Quadrangular.

COURTESYSPORTS RMA ON

points. Also scoring for the Generals was sophomore Phil 8 points. SENIOR COREYLI'I'I‘I.E
  '1' W ’ S ’
HIS EEK S C *DULE
Tuesday, February 10 Wednesday, February 11 Thursday, February 12 Friday, February 13 Saturday, February 14 Sunday, February 15
0 W Basketball vs. 0 M Basketball vs. 0 Open 0 W Basketball at 0 Wkestling at 0 Open

Lynchburg--7 :00

Guilford-- 7:00

Rand0lph-Macon-- 7:00
0 M Swimming at Blue-

grass--TBA Mennonite--7:00

0 Riding at Randolph- 4 0 M Swim at Bluegrass--
Macon Womens ’/LC Inv- TBA

-TBA

Muhlenberg Quad--12:00
0 M Basketball at Eastern

(Ring-tum Phi

 

.

   

5'|'$'l‘RAVEI..€OM

Jnﬁlmwiws ﬁtuirdcaﬂawvpeeuke

     

Sell

1?? 5, term Cash, Go Free!
How '

 
1-830~&€3-#84”? I mwwmrsmzi-.zom l

 

Is anyone else
depressed that We can ’t
Waste our Weelren ds
Wa telling football for

six months?

 

mag ﬁwtampm Reps

  
     

#1 Spring Break Vacations!

Cancun, Jamaica, Acapulco, Bahamas &
Florida. Best Parties, Best Hotels, Best Prices!
Group Discounts, Organizers Travel Free!
Space is limited! Book Now & Save!

endlesssummertours.com

1-800-234-7007

 

 

- , L the week ending January 31.

    

PAGE 6

W&L SPORTS RELEASE

LEXINGTON, Va. — Washington and Lee se-
nior Eric Ritter (Birmingham, A1aJMountain Brook)
has been recognized as the Division III National
Swimmer of the Week by CollegeSwirnrning.com for

Ritter propelled the Generals to a 117-60 win
over Marymount and an undefeated dual-meet sea-
son with top performances in the 200 Back and the
400 Medley Relay.

He emerged as the top ﬁnisher in the 200 Back
(1253.79), but his performance in the winning 400
Medley Relay (3241.58) was the highlight of the
day. Leading off the relay with the 100 Back leg,
Ritter set a pool record with an NCAA “A”-cut time
of 51.38. He joins Tim Stanford (‘86) as the only
two Generals to hold records in the Cy Twombly
Memorial Pool.

Ritter and the Generals return to action on Feb.

"=1-Jl73.ll'~¥-‘~”'°.El»v1?'l’.=’

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 2004

    SPORTS
Ritter named Division III

Swimmer of the Week

Senior earns national recognition for Maiymount performance

W&L SPORTS RELEASE

LEXINGTON, Va. — The Washington and Lee
men’s and women’s indoor track and ﬁeld squads
were in action at the VMI Winter Relays on Satur-
day afternoon. The Generals combined for two-top-
place performances a.r1d a pair of school records
while competing against Division I and Division III
competition.

For the W&L women, sophomore Betsy Frayer
(Grand Rapids, Mich./East Grand Rapids) emerged
as the top runner in the 3,000-meter run, besting all
competitors with a time of 1 1:30.44.

Freshmen Kathryn Brennan (New Orleans, La./
Isidore Newman) and Sara Behrnerwohld (San Juan
Capistrano, Calif./Dana Hills) used their perfor-
mances to set a pair of new standards for the Gen-
erals’ program. Brennan vaulted to a program-
record mark of 9’4.25” in the pole vault, while

Indoor track teams compete
against VMI on Saturday

Two school records broken at competition

Junior Meredith Walker (Travelers Rest, S.C./
Christ Church Episcopal), junior Ann Tompkins
(McLean, Va./Potomac School) and freshman Hunt-
ley Rodes (Nashville, Tenn./Harpeth Hall) were also
among the Generals’ leaders. Among Division III
sprinters in the 200-meter dash, Walker took sec-
ond (29.24), Tompkins took third (29.60) and Rodes
took fourth (29.82).

For the men, juniors Nathan Johnson (Lexing-
ton, Va./Rockbridge County) and Steven Chambers
(Christiana, Pa./Octorara Area) led W&L with the
top-two finishes in the 3,000-meter run. Johnson
won the event with a 9:02.95 clocking, while Cham-
bers crossed the tape second in a time of 9:14.11.

Junior Chris Walker (Centreville, Va./Paul IV)
took top weight—throw honors among Division IH
participants with a distance of 44’ 5.25”, whilejun—
ior Brian Krupczak (Cohasset, Mass./Cohasset)
was Division III’s second-place ﬁnisher in the 55-
meter dash with a time of 6.70 seconds.

13 at the Bluegrass Mountain Conference Champi— ' SpoRT5IN1=oRMAT1oN Behmerwohld clocked W&L’s fastest—ever 55-meter Both W&L squads retum to action on Sunday 7

     
  

 

onships. - SENIOR Emc RITIEK. dash with a 9.59 performance. at the Christopher Newport Invitational.
, . .
Support Generals athletics over feb break in your hometown »
A Wrestlin A’/' '
.  9 S5 0’//) r
M ns’ B06‘ij\:nnoi\'i’iel'.00 Pm Sat., Feb. 14 at Muhlenberg Quad (Baptist 8 ’ F94 27 .9/WU/I99
Easlel“ 1 00 Pm Bible, Elizabethtown, Muhlenberg) 12:00 pm 5 /” /fa//'0 “Were
A 14 at -A ewalel . "/1, Feb ”3/ 76/1 ’ v
sat.."’e ' b 1815- B” Sat., Feb. 21 Centennial Conference 339a/(/,,,1, ,
W99» 9 ' Championships 11:00am /”"’/<917'0/ia/ /‘$40/L”.<7/ii/.'5»
ma“  Baseball Me ‘
. . , /7,9’
. Basie _ Mon., Feb. 16 at Oglethorpe 3.30pm 5;,’ F ac,
\Noit\9“5 'dgewatet7-00 pm Wed., Feb. 18 at Emory 2:00 pm 9”’: 20<9/Gree/7sb0SSe ’'
Wed”; .18 B“ Thu., Feb. 19 at Ogelthorpe 3:00 pm 0'0 330p
Sat., Feb. 21 Villa Julie (DH) 12:00pm ,
‘V
1 _
1' ’
O
Rea ity. ,
iiiiiii  “I don’t have the
V.
_  : required courses
The Johns Hopkin ost-Bacca ureate , ”
premedical Prgg m for medical school. .
graduates with st
apply to the best ,
them the person
science and mat courses ‘
academic advisin:
If you or someone ou know wants to pursue a it
career as a docto apply by March 1.
For more informa n, visit " :
www.jhu.edulpo*:sp ac or call 410-516-7748.
'   IOHNS HOPKINS
Post-Baccalaureate ‘ 13
Premedical Program
Wash & Lee Post Bac 04 I x’

 

 

PAGE 7

A

 

P“ LIEE

l/IECANMORGAN

Ans&L.A~EmoR A ‘=

FMAI:M()R(‘AlWl@WwH)U
MONDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 2004

More than Mainstream: independent woman Rian Lewis

Someone pointed out that in all our discus-
sion of rush and pledgeship, we had ignored
one of the largest minority groups on campus:
independent women. The issues facing indepen-
dent women can be very different than those
facing independent men. Rian Lewis knows
those challenges well and has successfully navi-
gated the social cycles of W&L without a Greek
affiliation. A junior psychology major from Win-
chester, Virginia, Rian has never
regretted being an independent.
A self described “turbo psyc-
nerd,” Rian keeps herself busy 
through a wide array of activities beyond the
Greek system: “I’m a bleeding heart liberal and
an officer in Young Democrats. I am also a co-
Chair of the Gay-Straight Alliance, a dorm coun-
selor, a peer counselor, and am on the
Multicultural Student Advisory Board. Oh and
school,” Rian explains.

Rian is glad she rushed. “It’s a fun experi-

  

M ence,” Rian recalls. With a chuckle, she explains,

“Rush is a game. It's people I’ve never met be-
fore pretending to care about my name and where
I’m from.” All in all, “it was very entertaining”
and a memorable time.

Rian came to W&L for a variety of reasons.

MORETHANMAIl\IS'l'REAM

. 

“It was the best school I got into. Initially I was
very turned off by the idea of going to a school
that I wouldn’t fit into—nostalgic for Reagan,
Greek oriented. My dad went here though, and
he encouraged me to give it a shot, so I thought,
‘What the hell?’” Arriving at W&L, Rian, like
many freshmen knew little about Greek life. Lack-
ing the ability to discern a Psifrom a ‘Delta, Rian
decided to take a laid back approach to the en-
tire system. She rushed be-
cause it was something that
she felt she should do—after
all, everyone else did.

At the end of rush
week, Rian decided that sorority life was not for
her. Withdrawing from rush is a decision Rian is
glad she made. “I’m not committed to meetings
and rush workshops or being forced into a so-
cial circle,” Rian said, which is good for her busy
schedule.

Sorority t-shirts might be the one thing
Rian misses about not being in a sorority. “I’ve

never had a moment of regret at all, though I

will admit that I have t-shirt envy. They are so
clever and witty! W&L mainstream t-shirts just
aren't as good.” Among her favorites are the
Theta and company shirt, the Coca—cola

themed tees, the KD shirt with Audrey
Hepburn, and this year’s KD bid day shirt.
Beyond the expansive amount of t-shirts
she is missing out on, Rian’s experience as an
independent has been a good one. Even the
biggest challenges can be overcome she ex-
plains. “You do have to go make an extra ef-
fort to be social. You don’t have social events
scheduled for you,” Rian says. To indepen-
dent freshmen she issues the advice, “Being
in a sorority is not the be all, end all at Wash-
ington and Lee. Winter term freshman year is
probably the hardest time to be an indepen-
dent. All the girls are having their first mixers
and socials, and they are going through
pledgeship. Its gets a lot easier and you can
have a very happy social life. You can have a
very fulfilling social life without Greek letters.”
Though an independent, Rian thinks the
Greek system is necessary at Washington and
Lee. “I think its good, and I think W&L needs
it. What else would there be to do in Lex?” she
laments. As a dorm counselor, Rian had an in-
teresting perspective on Rush week this year.
She is grateful for the opportunities that being
a DC has given her. “I have eleven girls in four
houses. I encouraged them all to go through

STEVEN MARINOS TRING-7vMPH1

rush. I joked about rushing for the indepen-
dents, but I wasn’t very successful. They all
found the sorority that was right for them.”

Valentine’s Day activities in the Lexington area

BY MAGGIE SPEARMAN
STAFF WRITER

The Superbowl has
been played, Mock Con has
come and gone, and “Feb
Break” is only days away.
This could only mean one
thing. Everyone’s favorite
holiday, Valentine’s Day, is
rapidly approaching. While
some people shudder at the
idea of celebrating this ro-
mantic day with that special
someone, there are those
people who look forward to
it each year.

For those of you who
refuse to recognize
Valentine’s Day, that is fine.

This article is not for you.

However, for the rest of
you, regardless of your dat-
ing status, read on. You
may be thinking that Lex-
ington is that last place you
would want to spend this
special day, but let me per-
suade you otherwise.
Couples in search of a ca-
sual meal to those who want
a weekend getaway, Lexing-
ton has the answer.

Those of you who want
to kick of the festivities a
few days early can attend
the Washington and Lee
Men’s Basketball game
against Guilford on
Wednesday, February 11 at
7 pm. It is “Valentine’s
Cheap Date Night,” and the
first 50 couples will receive
free popcorn, soda, and
candy. Game giveaways will
also include dinner at the
Wilson-Walker House,

Fancy Dress tickets, and
chocolates from the Cocoa
Mill.

Lexington is also host-
ing the third annual Choco-
late Lovers’ Weekend from
February 13-16. People can
enjoy a wide range of
events throughout the
weekend: carriage rides
through downtown Lexing-
ton, wine, beer, and choco-
late tasting, and a pancake
breakfast, just to name a
few opportunities.

If a simple dinner is
more your style, the
Sheridan Livery is the
place to go. Chefs have
prepared a special menu for
Valentine’s Day weekend
that includes a chocolate
souffle topped with a rasp-
berry sauce and fresh
strawberries for dessert.

In addition to these ro-
mantic activities, Lexington
also has an assortment of
Valentine’s, Day gifts.
Whether it’s for that special
someone, a good friend, or
even for yourself, Fun
Foods and Accessories has
the answer. You can show
your significant other just
how you feel with a packet
of traditional conversation
hearts or chocolate bars
bearing the saying “I love
you.” Get in the mood with
scented candles or a jar of
“Love Fudge.” Single girls,
you can even purchase the
ideal boyfriend at Fun
Foods and Accessories.
With a choice of Mr. Right,
Lover Boy, and Mr. Perfect,
you can “Grow a Boyfriend”

in just seconds by placing
this small figure in a cup of
water and watching him ex-
pand.

Hopefully these ideas
have motivated at least
some of you to take advan-
tage of what Lexington has
to offer for this year’s

Frﬂlll. .l:GlJfl1ﬂf}' '13 »-  2004.
M41 *9 n get--acwn_v for a
Cl10'COl¢‘tl’£' Lover-'5 Wrcelzeiitl
in Lexington}, X-"'ir__»,;*:x‘-Ilia!

\‘¢'i.tl... |mcl2n;;';e.s st.1z'='ti'ng' at only $1359,
you cnutt .1'l [orcl icy inies out on this
sgwec-t clenl.

Valentine’s Day. With a
wide range of activities, at
least one is fit for you.
Whether it be an intimate
dinner for two or a day of
beer and chocolate tasting,
enjoy your Valentine’s Day,
it only comes around once
a year.

New play performed
at Washington and Lee

BY CHRIS LAUDERMAN
A$lSTAN'I'
ARTS AND LIFE EDITOR

“Metamorphoses”
weaves together love, trag-
edy, change, and victory to
incite the audience and seize
their attention. The play is a
contemporary version of
Ovid’s Greek myths. What
makes “Metamorphoses”
unique is that it is performed
in a pool.

The play begins with the
story of Creation. Following
the Creation are eleven
scenes. During each of these
acts a character changes in
some form. The cast is phe-
nomenal in that they bring
each of the eleven scenes to
life. Seniors Brandon
Waddell, Charlie Boisky, and
Jeremy Mims stirred the audi-
ence with their portrayals of
many characters. Other cast
members included Ligia
Abreu, Bahskar Banerjee,
Caleb Dulis, Ruth Esponda,
Joseph I-Iarouni, Anna
Heatwole, Kelly Kopicial ’96,
Julian Ledford, Sarah Orvin,
Sheryl Silvers, Paige Smith,
and Victoria Stanham.

Midas is the first scene in
the play. Boisky plays King
Midas. The gods grant him
one wish. He wishes to
change himself so that every-
thing he touches will turn to
gold. The god Bacchus,
played by Banerjee, warns
King Midas that it is a bad
idea. He turns his daughter,

played by Abreu, into gold —
one of the many tragic ele-
ments of the play.

Orpheus and Eurydice’s
scene is another tragic, but ex-
cellent, part of “Metamorpho-
ses.” Waddell plays Orpheus,
a musician whose bride,
Eurydice, dies on their wed-
ding day. The story follows
Orpheus into the underworld

where he has gone to ask for . '.

his bride back.

Boisky, Smith, Abreu,
Orvin, and Dulis act in the
twisted tale of Pomona and
Vertumnus.
love with Pomona, but she ex-
presses no interest. He then
tells her a story about what
happens to girls who ignore
love.

The myth of Phaeton was ' ‘

particularly amusing. Phaeton,
played by Waddell, is the son
of the sun, Apollo, played by
Ledford. Phaeton is getting

therapy for the deep hurt he '

has from being the son of the
sun. Waddell’s acting was

great and he had the whole '

audience in laughter during
this scene.

This play evokes many :‘:'

emotions. It was funny one
minute and tragic the next.
“Metamorphoses” was an en-
joyable piece of my weekend. I

highly recommend this perfor— ' '

mance to the every student.
There are only three showings
of “Metamorphoses” remaining.
They will be performed at The

Lenfest Center for Performing 2. ‘ '. '

Arts tonight, tomorrow, and
Wednesday in the small theatre.

Feb Break

The Ring-tum Phi wishes you a great

LISTEN:
91.5 FM

Let us help you look and feel

Tom James Company
Interviews?

Internship?
Special occasion?

your best!!

Vertumnus is in 

University
A Cleaners

THE CLEANEST OF THE CLEAN.
CALL US FOR ALL or YOUR DRY CLEANING,

LAUNDRY AND ALTERATIONS NEEDS
. Short walk to W & L and downtown. Remodeled

, 1885 Historic home on Institute Hill. New kitchen
Great Service

with all new appliances. 4 B/R, 1 1/2 Bath, storage
If First-Rate Quality

Custom and Ready Made Suits

Washington and Lee Radio and Sports Coats

Shirts, pants, shoes and all accessories

HOME FOR SALE

704 N 0. Main St., Lexington ‘—‘—‘g—St"de"t Pack“ es &

Gi t Certi icates Available

Contact Adam Williams
for an appointment or

room and large laundry/workroom with washer.& with questions

dryer. Shows like a model home. Asking $229,000.

Call (540) 464-3738 540-815-1557

7 N0Yl3h Jeffefsm Street Adam.Williams@tomjamesretail.com

, ' 463-3622

dry cleaning,
laundry, alterations

 

 

PAGE 8

 

WORD

 

MEGANMORGAN
ARIs&L1EEEDIroR

EMAt.M3RcANME@o<i1JE11J

MONDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 2004

Sports movie genre produces ‘spectacular films’

Occasionally, a seasoned columnist keeps an idea in his
hip pocket to fall back on in case his weekend is tied up
in a poker tournament and some famous lovin’. Last
Friday, Miracle hit the big screen. The ﬁlm recounted
when the United States defeated the massively favored
Soviet Union in Olympic hockey at the 1980 games at
Lake Placid. This cosmic clash of good I ~
vs. evil, capitalism vs. communism, and .
professionalism vs. arnateurism, argu

ably delivered sports’ all-time grandest
upset. Plots of this genre usually pro
duce spectacular ﬁlms. This columnist and his good
buddies give you a comprehensive breakdown of the
best and worst sports movies in speciﬁed categories.

 

The John Schaufele Category—Children’s Films——
The Sandlot

The Sandlot gets the nod overAngles in the Outﬁeld and
the Mighty Ducks. Bennie "The Jet” Rodriguez could
start in centerﬁeld for the hapless Angels who needed
Christopher "Ihe Doc” Lloyd to vault them into _the pen-
nant race where Tony Danza gave his all—time ﬁnest per-
formance. Quoting Schaufele, “The Sandlot is the great-
est movie of all time. Ever.” The Mighty Ducks probably
had more inﬂuence on our generation with the Triple Deke,
the Flying V and “Quack, Quack. . .” but the subsequent

THE TRIPLE-OPTION
-.,lAISE.TEQTJER:fQf___

urmeoessary sequels drop it from first to third.
Honorable Mention:

Angels in the Outﬁeld, Mighty Ducks, Little Big
League

The Clark Finney Category——The Underdog
Wins»-—Hoosiers '
Like Finney, this small-time coun-
try squad went big time and won
the state title. The Natural is too
good for this category and Rudy
is not good enough. Seabiscuit
never won a coveted Triple Crown race and Rocky
never lost to anyone not named Mr. T.

Honorable Mention:

The Natural, Rudy, Rocky, Seabiscuit, The Rookie,

‘ Radio, Chariots of Fire, Bloodsport

The Jim Sargent Category-Comedies—Major
League I and II

This category has a strong list of contenders. Most
movie watchers would probably go with the first
Caddyshack, but our crack staff of voters decided
that Major League II crushes the second

Caddyshack——yes, there is a second——and lifts it‘

over the overrated Bull Durham. Bob Uecker’s “Just
a bit outside” is probably the best line of all in this
ﬁeld. '

Honorable Mention:

Happy Gilmore, Caddyshack, Bull Durham, Slap Shot,
The Waterboy, Baseketball, Celtic Pride, Forget Paris,
Cool Runnings

The Sigma Chi Freshmen Pledge Class Cat-
egory—Overrated—Raging Bull

Like the Sigma Chi Pledge Class, Raging Bull and
A League of Their Own get raving reviews from
the respective IFC and Movie critics. However,
having seen both the Sigma Chi Pledge Class and
Raging Bull and co., it is easy to conclude that not
only are the aforementioned marginal, but over-
rated as well.

Honorable Mention.‘

A League of Their Own, Any Given Sunday,
The Bad News Bears, Finding Forrester, Tin
Cup, Ali 1

The Chris Surdo and Leah Greenberg Cat-
egory—Romances——Days of Thunder

Cutting Edge (ﬁgure skating) makes Days of Thun-
der earn its keep. Matt Fink’s favorite movie Sum-
mer Catch makes a valiant push, but falls short at
third.

Honorable Mention:

Cutting Edge, Summer Catch, For the Love of the
Game, Love and Basketball

The Cameron Lord Category—Tear-jerkers-—
Heaven Can Wait

These movies could make Cameron Lord cry twice.
Heaven Can Wait is a forgotten classic and has been
tarred by the recent Chris Rock remake of the movie
in the altered form of Down to You. What similarities
do a 70s Los Angeles Rams quarterback and a 90s
comedian have in common? Nothing. Brian’s Song
popularized the name “Brian” for the Baby Boomers
to which we owe for our fearless IFC president.
Honorable Mention:

Brian’s Song, Remember the Titans, Field of Dreams,
The Sixth Man

The Jess Lipsey Category—Hidden Gem—The
Longest Yard

What do Lipsey and Burt Reynolds have in com-
mon? Once footbal1’s over, they throw down every
single night. Reynolds, though, has not closed the
Palms down in a record string of 47 consecutive Sat-
urdays. The HBO original frlm *6l could be the best
baseball movie ever made this side of The Natural
and Field of Dreams. Castleberry gives his highest
recommendation to Hoop Dreams.

Honorable Mention‘:

*6l, Hoop Dreams, The Program, Junction Boys, He
Got Game, Blue Chips, White Men Can’t Jump

Dead fraternities in W&L’s past

BY CHRIS LAUDERMAN
ASSISTANT
ARTS AND LIFE EDITOR

The thought of more fra-
ternities at Washington and
Lee is hard to imagine, but
forty years ago, we had a
few more than we do now.
Most current students know
the drama that unfolded dur-
ing our time with Sigma Phi
Epsilon and what happened
about a decade ago with
Delta Tau Delta. Most, how-
ever, are oblivious to what
made the other fraternities
disappear.

The mid 1960s to the
early 1980s brought hard
times to the Greek System at
Washington and Lee. The
early 1970s marked the low-
est percentage of men join-
ing fraternities which was at
less than fifty five percent.
As a result, Kappa Alpha,
Kappa Sigma, Delta Upsilon,
and Sigma Phi Epsilon all
dissipated because of finan-
cial hardships. Delta Upsi-
lon was the only fraternity
that did not try to re—colo-
nize during the fraternity re-
vival of the early 1980s.

Alpha Tau Omega was
founded at VMI. The Beta
chapter was founded at
Washington and Lee a few
years later. Most students
have heard the famous cam-
pus urban legend that sur-
rounds this fraternity. Ac-
cording to legend, the broth-
ers of ATO hijacked a train,
and not being a very honor-
able thing to do, got kicked
off campus. Buddy Atkins,

Acting Dean of the Elrod
University Commons be-
lieves that this is strictly leg-
end.

The real reason ATO is
no longer at Washington
and Lee is because of hous-
ing. Fraternity houses be-
gan construction in the
1920s. Every fraternity ex-
cept ATO obtained their
mortgage through the Uni-
versity. This was to have ex-
tra freedom. World War II
essentially stopped frater-
nity activity. After the war
was over, the creditor
wanted not only current rent,
but also rent from the four
previous years. The house
could not survive financially.

Zeta Beta Tau was a
thriving Jewish fraternity
prior to the mid 1960s lo-
cated in the current Kappa
Sig house. “They were sell-
ing themselves as an alter-
native to a fraternity,” said
Atkins. Starting in 1964, J ew-
ish students started to look
at other fraternities besides
ZBT. This started a down-
ward trend that continued
into the 1980s for ZBT.
When fraternities made their
comeback, ZBT could not re-
cruit anymore. No student
wanted an alternative to a
fraternity; they actually
wanted a real fraternity.

Phi Epsilon Pi, located
at the present KA house,
was another, less success-
ful Jewish Fraternity. In
1969, Phi Epsilon Pi merged
into ZBT. The brothers re-
fused to merge with their
next door neighbors and
formed their own fraternity,

Psi Upsilon, which lasted
for approximately five
years.

The successful ‘coloni-
zation of Chi Psi in 1977
brought hope to some of
the dead fraternities. VKA
obviously had pressure to
return since they are the
Alpha Chapter. SPE and
Kappa Sig also made come-
backs to campus. What is
surprising is that ATO did
not try to re—colonize since
Lexington is home to their

Alpha Chapter as well.
' KA bought "Psi
Upsilon’s house, SPE

moved in beside FIJI, and
Kappa Sig moved into the
Outing Club House. The
Fraternity Renaissance of
the late 1980s brought
changes to the fraternity
scene. SPE, Kappa Sig, and
Sigma Chi all had houses
that could not be renovated
to meet acceptable stan-
dards. The plan was to
build 3 new houses in
Davidson Park, but with the
death of ZBT, Kappa Sig
moved to their current loca-
tion. Sigma Chi moved from
Lee Street, currently the
Communications Office, to
Davidson Park along with
SPE.

The early 1990s
brought the death of Delt,
and 2003 the surprise sus-
pension of SPE. No one can

predict what the next big

Greek event will be for
Washington and Lee, even
though it appears the re-
emergence of SPE in 2006-
2007 will get that distinc-
tion.

I.ooKrNG DOWN ON THE PAST

Old George. Recently, a replica of the Old George statue that sits atop Washington Hall appeared in the
Commons lobby. This statue has played an important role in past Washington and Lee traditions. When the
statue was first erected in the 18405, students frequently painted the statue various colors. W&L freshmen
usually painted it blue while VMI cadets also painted the statue, using their school colors red and yellow. The
statue was painted so often that when it was scraped in 1949, layers came off that were an inch and a quarter
thick. It was estimated that there must have been around 125 layers of paint on the statue. In recent years, the
statue has been painted only infrequently including once in 1958 and Fancy Dress Weekend in 1974. At the
time, Security was unsure how the students were able to access the statue, although they hypothesized that the
students got onto the roof through the third floor of Washington Hall and then used a ladder with a central
extension to get one person on top of the podium to paint the statue.

“is

Q Who is “unstable Bob?”

 

Q The most amazing English professor ever . . .
Professor Craun!

Q Kudos to the person who dolled up Cyrus
McCormick over the weekend. Now he has some
bling to go along with his reaper.

Q Tell prospective students not to apply to

Washington and Lee. It is turning into PCU and we
can all thank Dawn Watkins and Teresa Glassman.

Q I think Kisha Barnes (Ms. NAACP) has a beau-
tiful smile and needs to smile more often. Can you
be my Valentine?

Q Give peas a chance.

Q SoAmy . . . lunch?

Q I heard some kid in the freshman class used to
have a house in Vermont.

Q Word is there are two shoes lurking around
the freshman dorms. Maybe they should get
toghether and tie laces.

Q What animal should you never play cards with?
A cheetah.

Q Mrs. Burish, please don’t ever again let your
husband out of the house with the sweater he wore
Tuesday night.

Q Could someone please ask “Chaz-dunk” and
“Lolli” to stop writing Quick Hits about themselves.
Here is a hint: No one cares.

Q Trivial Pursuit IS fratty!

Q It’s the car I have always wanted, and now I
have it. I rule!

Q “Aaaaaaaaaaamen. Sing it with me now.
Aaaaaaaaaaaaaamen, little louder now!”

Q Snaps to Puerto Rico and the Democrats
Abroad roll calls for being the only thing funnier
than Burr’s amens.

Q Wearing spandex and cycling during the Mock
Con parade is about as cool as being Richard
Simmons.

Q We’ve got the magic stick, if by magic stick
you mean oranges. —Florida delegation sign

Q Who else is surprised that Tom Burish turned
out to be the hero in the Spring Term saga?

Q If sleep deprivation is reason enough to can-
cel pledgeship than Professor DeLaney’s classes
should also be called off.

Q Happy Birthday to W&L grad Roger Mudd,
who turns 76 today.

Q Thanks to the 12-12-6 committee for all your
hard work to save Spring Term.

Q Don’t forget to buy your Valentine a song from
J ubiLee in the Commons Lobby.

Q Third—ﬂoor Graharn—Lees above the breezeway
is the best hall in freshman history.

Q Today is the l63rd anniversary of Jefferson
Davis’ election to the presidency of the Confeder-
ate States of America.

Q Tom Brady is a hottie!

Q This week Janet Jackson’s boob popped out
of its hole and saw its shadow. Now we’ll have six

moreweeks of overreaction.

Q Happy Birthday to Bill Brooks.

Q The difference between jam and jelly is that
jam has seeds. So what’s marmelade?

Q How did you celebrate Ronald Reagan’s birth-
day on Friday?

Q So how long has Cyrus been wearing those
Mardi Gras beads?

Q Go to the Women’s Basketball game on Tues-
day against Lynchburg. It’s_a big ODAC contest.

Q So, did GDI have its pledgeship canceled, too?

Q Way to go Bryan Early-— big winner in this
weekend’s interfraternity poker tournament!

Q FYI: The campaign “For the Rising Generation”
surpassed its fundraising goal by $17.5 million or
eight percent. Super job, Development Office!

Q Cheers to KD and KKG for throwing a risk
management—friendly Famous Lovers party.

Q To Noah Rhodes: Mock Con is over, you can
come home now.

Q I propose a compromise: Why don’t we all just
agree that Brett Kirwan is an Heroic Tool, like a
ﬁreman’s axe or something.

Q E—mail your Quick Hits and stories from Wash-
ington Break to phi@wlu.edu.

v

 

    
   

 

 

41373.75:
.955:
.;/. M6
mm:
c. z.

I crease in complaints. “Last year I think I got

 \l(/Asrm\1GT<)GN AND'iE’E UNIVERSHY

, ll}€StM6l€7lt voice of Washington and Lee Univenitysince I 897

/05 , 2:
VOLUME Cllll,eNo.W
MONDAY,MARCH 1,2004

PHI

Two fraternities cleared, two others still under investigation

BY PATRICIA BALLANTYNE
SENIOR STAFF WRITER

Two pledgeship investigations are com-
plete, ending in cleared charges. But two more
are pending.

According to IFC advisor Matt Jacobs, the
abundance of investigations comes from an in-

three phone calls concerning pledgeship and
hazing,” said Jacobs. “This year on a given day
I have four to six.”

Dean Dawn Watkins said that a vague,
anonymous tip would not produce an investi-
gation. In fact, she would respond to anony-
mous emails by promising conﬁdentiality, ask-
ing for specifics and stating that nothing can be
done until the unsubstantiated claim is clarified.

So no outside people should be able to bring
an end to a fratemity’s pledgeship by a devious,
general suggestion.

Specific phone calls and visits to Jacobs
and the Deans offices, however, cannot be ig-
nored. “If something lands on our desk, there’s
a responsibility to act,” said Watkins. “We’re
not seeking anything.”

Cleared.   and Chi Psi have been cleared of any pledgeship violations regarding sleep deprivation.
Their pledgeships may resume. V I

deciding to investigate.

“They don’t update you on the
progress,” said Higgins. “They might try to
have more understanding'on how hard the
process is on the people responsible.”

Fiji’s investigation lasted longer be-
cause of February break, which created ad-
ditional problems with their nationals be-
cause of a March 1 deadline for alcohol
forms.

to comment, but he had to respect national
rules of confidentiality.

Security must talk to all of the pledges
and the house leadership during an investi-
gation. .

Therefore, details and the number of in-
vestigations have led to longer suspensions
of pledgeship.

According to Jacobs, Mock Convention
also took time away from investigations.

“We’re moving pretty fast,” said
Watkins. “When there’s a fast turnaround
case on the investigation, it’s because of
the house’s cooperation.”

A suspension does not represent a

Chi Psi active Brooks Batcheller wanted ‘

I_FC President Brian Castleberry also said
that “security is doing its typical surveillance.
lt’s not like they’re driving around looking at
off campus houses at night.”

No one can point to a direct reason for the
considerable number of complaints.

“Maybe the freshmen are closer to their par-
ents, so they’re more aware of what’s going on,”
said Castleberry. “Maybe complaints are being
turned in because people think there’s a higher prob-

ability they will be acted on than in years past.”

Castleberry admits that these complaints do
not reveal an increase in pledgeship activities from
past years. “A lot of houses have trimmed back,”
he said.

The Fiji and Chi Psi complaints proved unsup-
ported, so their pledgeships have resumed.

Three unrelated complaints regarding sleep
deprivation in the Fiji pledge class reached the
University, according to Fiji active Brian

Higgins.

“People reported our pledges getting tired,
and no complaint came from a parent,” said
Higgins, who added, “sleep deprivation can be
a tricky thing.”

Higgins understands the reasons for inves-
tigation. “They had to do it,” he said. He also
credited University Security with doing a good,
straightforward job, but he wished the Uni-
versity would have spoken with ‘him before

fraternity’s guilt. “It’s just a safety is-
sue,” said Jacobs.

“Being under investigation is not a
conviction of anything,” said Watkins. “It
is as much in the best interest of the
house as it is in the interest of any fresh-
men.

“Our number one concern is safety,
but our number two priority is keeping the
Greek system from being in jeopardy.”

Admissions organizes Open Houses for minorities
in attempt to increase interest in Washington and Lee

BY ERIN JULIUS
NEWS EDITOR

Washington and Lee’s
Admissions office hosted an
open house this weekend. The
open house allowed a number
of prospective interested mi-
nority students to come visit
W&L, meet with professors
and get a feel for campus life.

Admissions holds a series
of Open Houses each year for
under—represented popula-
tions.

This year, Washington and
Lee hosted three open houses.
Erin Hutchinson, the Coordi-
nator of Minority Relations,
and Jonathan Webster, the As-
sociate Dean of Admissions,
defined under-represented
populations as American, eth-
nic and racial minorities. Reli-
gious minorities can also fall
under this category.

Open Houses are not exclu-
sive to minority groups, said
Webster, because they have
many parallels to events such
as the Honor Scholarship week-
end.

The Open Houses are im-
portant to minority recruitment
because it gets them “here on
campus, to find out what W&L
is all about,” and shows that,
“everyone is welcoming, open
and talkative,” said
Hutchinson. I

“W&L sells itself,” said
Webster.

According to Hutchinson,
the students who attend Open
Houses are interested in learn-
ing about what General Lee did
after the Civil War. He was “in-
strumental in reaching beyond
the South to enroll,” she said,
“they go home feeling less ap-
prehensive.”

Open Houses help Admis-
sions address diversity issues.
“We want to discuss diversity,”
said Webster.

According to Hutchinson,
all of the students who attend
the Open Houses know very
well why they’re coming to
campus. “We tell them we‘re
going to address diversity,”
she said, “and make sure they
have experiences here that ad-
dress those issues. . .and we ask
them for their concerns about
diversity at Washington and
Lee.”

This weekend’s Open
House included a brunch with
Professors of Departments the
students expressed interest in,
a session in which Nabors rep-
resentatives discussed service
at Washington and Lee, a cam-
pus tour, a session in which IFC
and Panhel representatives dis-

. cussed Greek life, concerts, and
- a diversity panel.

Today, the students will at-
tend classes of their choosing.

~ sity panels are a forum for.-pro. -

Hutchinson said the diver-

spective students to talk with
current Washington and Lee
students, “they can voice their
opinions and see if precon-
ceived ideas are on target,”
she said.

The purpose of Open
Houses is, “not to pull the
wool over anyonefs eyes
about W&L,” Hutchinson
said.

The Minority Student As-
sociation and Club Asia
helped to organize social
events for the Open House
weekend.

When actually making Ad-
missions decisions, race may
be one of many factors.

Race helps in “choosing
among equals,” said Webster,
“and the average admitted mi-
nority candidate has creden-
tials that are right on.”

According to Webster, the
Admissions Office is following
through on goals set by the
Board. The Board set in place
a 5-year plan to increase the
representation of American, ra-
cial and ethnic groups to a
number that approximates the
mean of rural, national arts
colleges. The Admissions Of-

COMP.‘ Adrnissionsirwitedmmoiitysmdentstocarnpusthisweekendtoleammore
thiswed<end’s activities includedadiversitypanelatwhich currentsuidentsaddressedmanyconeerns oftheprospectives.

EB Roo HE ING-TUM I

about what We have to offer. Part of

   

fice, however, does not set
quotas or have hard numbers.
Webster said the mean that
Washington and Lee Admis-

sions is aiming for is about The second phase of the

- 10%. Admissions is halfway Board’s plan will take place

through this first five-year
span.

during a second 5-year time
period. During this phase,

Admissions will aim to in-
crease the number of students
who represent socioeconomic
or social disadvantage.

Four seniors honored for contributions to student activities

BY CATHERINE SWAN
SENIOR STAFF WRITER

During the month of February, the Celebrating Student Success
Initiative honored four students for their contributions to University
life. Winners in three categories were chosen by a joint student-staff
committee. The committee seeks to recognize student leaders whose
valuable contributions are not always visible to the University com-
munity.

Seth Martin, a senior Biology major, was recognized for his con-
tributions to Religious Life. Martin is president of Hillel, an organiza-
tion that seeks to contribute to and increase awareness of Jewish life
on campus. In part because of the efforts of Hillel and Martin, W&L
saw a 300% increase in Jewish enrollment in the past year.

“The most rewarding part of my work‘ with Hillel is seeing Jewish
enrolhnent increase at W&L and seeing good tumouts for Hillel events.
I think the increases in attendance over thulast two years at our Hillel
events, such as First Friday at Five Shabbat services, speaks to the
growing vibrancy of Jewish life on this campus,” said Martin.

In addition to his duties with Hillel, Martin is also a member of the

Men’s Tennis Team, President of Beta Theta Pi, a volunteer for Natu-
ral Bridge Juvenile Learning Center, and a member of the Student
Athlete Mentor’s Council.

‘ Paul Sibley, a senior Biology major, was recognized for his lead-
ership in Greek Life. Sibley is a member of Phi Kappa Psi, and has
served as social chair and philanthropy chair for two years, and is
currently acting vice president. Sibley’s duties as philanthropy chair
have allowed him to organize two Parent’s Weekend “Pancake Break-
fasts” with Kappa Alpha Theta, with proceeds benefiting Court Ap-
pointed Special Advocates.

“It makes the process of being involved in the community much
easier when you have a whole fraternity organizing it, rather than trying
to volunteer your time to a certain charity by yourself,” said Sibley,

Apart from his philanthropic efforts with Phi Psi, Sibley was rec-

ognized for his work with former Phi Psi President Jay Harder and

current Phi Psi President Haynes King to extend eating member-
ships at their house to members of AD Phi. They are currently work-
ing with the Business Office to allow all AD Phi members to eat all
their meals at the Phi Psi house. This is the culmination of a friend-
ship between Phi Psi and AD Phi brothers and will help ADPhi’s

become involved as social members of Phi Psi.

Through the efforts of Sibley and others, AD Phi members are
now participating in Phi Psi social events and attending chapter meet-
ings. Next year they will be able to participate in rush and half of the
house next year will be filled with AD Phi members. V

In addition to his efforts with Phi Psi, Sibley is also a member of
the Men’s Baseball Team, has served as a Big Brother, and volun-
teers one or two nights a week as an EMT.

In the category of Programming and Social Activities, Monea
Hendricks and Jessica Taylor were recognized for their work with the
cheerleading squad. The squad is entirely student run; therefore
Hendricks and Taylor are responsible for coaching as well as admin-
istrative work. Since their freshman year on the squad, Hendricks and
Taylor have seen its size double.

“In the past year, numbers have increased but unity, sacriﬁce,
dedication, and commitment have also improved, especially during
basketball season,” said Hendricks.

Hendricks is also an officer in the Minority Students Associa-
tion and is a former director of Joyful Noise Choir. Taylor was also the
Maryland State chair in the Mock Convention.

 

‘wﬁatamw  V
U?»  F W

 

Vagina Monologue organizers thank students

Thank you, W&L! Because of the great turnout at the Va-
gina Monologues and campus—wide support, Women’s Law Stu-
dent Organization was able to raise over $4000 for Safehome Sys-
tems (the family shelter in Covington) and the V-DAY Charity-
Women of Juarezs Also, we collected 10 baskets of home items
for Project Horizon. Because of you, hundreds of women will be
rescued from violence.

Nationally acclaimed comedy troupe visits

The Guerilla Girls, a nationally acclaimed feminist comedy
troupe, will give a Women’s History Month performance on
Tuesday, March 2, at 7:00 p.m. in the Elrod Commons theater.

The performance is open to the public without charge and is
sponsored by Washington and Lee’s Politics and Art departments,
the Women’s Studies program and the undergraduate organization
Knowledge Empowering Women Leaders.

Guerilla Girls is a group of anonymous women\who perform
under the names of dead female artists and appear in public wearing
Gorilla masks to use humor as a way of provoking discussion.
Their work has appeared in The New Yorker, The New York Times,
Vogue and The Nation.

University of Florida professor gives history
lecture regarding John Wilkes Booth and Honor

Bertram Wyatt-Brown, Professor of History at the University
of Florida and author of Southern Honor: Ethics and Behavior
in the Old South will speak on John Wilkes Booth and Honor.
His lecture will be March 3, 2004 7:30 p.m. in the Science Center
A. 214.

Religious lecture

Anne Marbury Wyatt-Brown, Ph.D. Associate Professor of
Linguistics at the University of Florida will be giving a religion
lecture on Religion, Age, and Identity after the Holocaust: ACase
Study on March 3, 2004 at 4:30 in Newcomb Hall 9. Dr. Brown is
the author of Barbara Pym: A Critical Biography. Her current
work in progress is: “Writing New Lives: Aging, Trauma, and
Creativity in Holocaust Narratives.”

March 1, 2004

Summary of Executive Committee Honor V
Activity for the 2003-2004 Academic Year if

Investigations: 9

Withdrawals while being investigated: 1
Withdrawals in face of a Closed Hearing: 0
Closed Hearings: 5

Guilty Verdicts in Closed Hearings: 1

Not Guilty Verdicts in Closed Hearings: 4

Student Body Hearings: 0

A Deliberate Driving. Sean Barry talks about the impact on his life, his wife Amber, and

countless others because of a decision to drive after drinking in 1998...

Wednesday, March 3
Lee Chapel
7:00 p.m.

MONDAY, MARCH 1,2004

Run for the Law raises money for law fellowships

BY ELIZABETH ECKMAN
STAFF WRITER

The third annual Run for the Law 5K walk and 10K run will be
held on Saturday, March 20. The run is sponsored by PILSA, the
Public Interest Law Students Association.

PILSA is a non-proﬁt group for law students interested in
working in the public interest sector. The proceeds from the run
help provide summer fellowships for students working in public
service.

“Many of these jobs, such as working in Legal Aid, public
defense, environmental groups, and special organizations are un-
paid,.so we provide students with fellowships,” said Brooke Corby,
the president of PILSA.

The cost of the run is $20 per participant and runners or walk-
ers receive a t-shirt. Run for the Law participants are usually stu-

dents from the University, but PILSA is encouraging residents of
Rockbridge County to participate as well.

They hope to have more than 100 people participate.

Corby said that last year, the group was able to give several
fellowships to students. While the Run is PILSA’s main fundraiser,
the group also partners with Domino’s for a fundraiser, does a
magazine sale, and sells Law School apparel.

The Run begins at the Rockbridge Country Public Library,
finishes at the Ruins, and covers the Chessie Trail and the Maury
River Bridge. '

The first place female and first place male will receive a pair of
running shoes from Graden’s.

In addition, participants will be entered in a rafﬂe for items
donated from Lexington businesses, such as gift certiﬁcates.

Interested students can register by contacting Brooke Corby

at ggm  o by picking up a registration form.

Hidden Hero: law student Chris Vrettos

Vrettos active in Fencing Club, Black Lung Practice Clinic, Pro Bone-O, W&L radio

BY ERIN JULIUS
NEWS EDITOR

Washington and Lee Law
students regularly make impor-
tant contributions to University
life—some are even involved in
undergraduate activities.

Chris Vrettos, who majored
in Political Science at Duke dur-
ing his undergraduate years,
was attracted to W&L Law be-
cause it’s a top 20 law school
and he liked the small class
sizes.

Once here, Chris became in-
volved with many differing ac-
tivities. He’s been a member of
the fencing team since last fall
and handles all the equipment
for the team.

For class credit, Chris
works with the Black Lung prac-
tice clinic run by Washington
and Lee Law Professors Mary
Natkin and James Phemister.
Black Lung Practice clinic stu-

dents assist West Virginia coal
miners with applications for fed-
eral beneﬁts.

Chris helped the victim discover
evidence for records, took the

victim on a narrative history of
his experience and wrote a clos-
ing argument for the case.

Students can work with the
mining victims because federal
regulations state that the victims
don’t have to be represented by
actual lawyers. Fourteen stu-
dents participate in the Black
Lung Practice Clinic.

Chris also has a radio show,
“Stairway to Heavy” late
Wednesday night on which he
plays classic rock, hard rock and
metal music. His radio show is
purely, “for his own amusement,”
because law school gets very
busy Chris said.

He is also involved with Pro
Bone-o, a Law School group that
works with the local animal shel-
ter by posting the animals’ pic-
tures on the‘SPCA website.

While in law school, Chris is
taking a broad variety of classes
so he will prepared for the bar and
intends to practice any kind of
law, wherever he can find a job.

I_ K V 
View from the top. Vrettos works hard to contribute to the W&L
community.

PHOVI‘ O COURTESY OF

On his most recent case,

Announcement of Owings Fellowship for juniors

FROM PRESS RELEASE

, A A fellowship in his memory has been created by friends of S.
Cullum Owings, Jr., a member of the Class of 2003 who died tragi-
cally in his senior year. A

The first Cullum Owings ’03 Fellow will be appointed for the
remainder of the current Academic Year. The student selected
will receive a credit of $1250 to be applied toward his/her next
tuition payment to the University.

In exchange, the Fellow will be expected to make two or
three visits to alumni chapters or to secondary schools, to dis-
cuss the state of the University from a student’s point of view,
with particular regard to the Honor System. It is expected that
the student chosen for the remainder of the current year will
have the fellowship renewed next year, with a stipend of $2500
for the full year. _

Criteria for selection of Owings Fellows are, first of all, that
the applicants should themselves possess outstanding personal
integrity.

They should be good scholars, but the fellowship is not
limited to students with exceptional grade—point averages. They

LISTEN.
91.5 WLUR

FOR ALL OF YOUR FANCY DRESS NEEDS:
U nive rs ity
C 1 e an e rs
. A   Wmngggg;

stress 11:’? its am! xi
. fnrfatrrtrmvessltl

       

t 7 North Jefferson Street
463-3622

dry cleaning,
laundry, alterations

should be articulate, with some grace and poise in demeanor,
while at the same time being sensitive to the values and opin-
ions of others. ‘

They should be students who show promise of developing
into community leaders of high standards.

Applicants may submit their applications to Professor Emeri-
tus John M. Gunn, Department of Economics, through Campus
Mail. The application should include

0 a copy of the student’s transcript

0 a resume of activities and special talents

0 an essay of about 250 words with the title: “How my
personal values and experience qualify me to represent Wash-
ington and Lee as a Cullum Owings Fellow,” a statement of
willingness to make the off-campus visits, as described above,
and names of two or more members of the faculty who from whom
the selection committee may seek recommendations.

Applications are due by Friday, March 19. The selection
process will include interviews with those applicants judged most
worthy on the basis of their written applications.

Questions may be addressed to Professor Gunn at
gunnj@wlu.edu‘. '

Q,§,\°’\ EYEWEAR IS VISION ,ﬂ2,.
EYEWEAR IS STYLE 2

THE BEST OF BOTH IS AVA|LABLE

The Newailpticians

Boutique

1 203 N. Main Street

<9 .
pa 95/ Lexington ,®c,\°°

*5‘/7/o/7 540-463-7440 90“

F
490753 www.newopticians.com

 

grins

Gtoaul LAWRENCE RANSEL
P|LATES/ALEXANDER Memos

540-461~34-47

309" N. rein St.
Lexington, VA 24450

7/

 

 

I ClrEYANpnsoN
OPlNl0l\8FDll0R
mm m

, PAGE 3
foolish

THE RING-TUM PHI

PINIONS

Amendment against gay marriage

 

< MONDAY, MARCH 1,2004

v  ITORIAL

Get involved in your student gov’t

   
   

 

. Recent election fever has the carn-
pus buzzing. Many students have been
paying more attention in recent days
to student government and its activity.
X. than ever before.

This attention has made students
even more aware of Honor. The fresh-
man “intimidation speech” and elec-
" tions season are not the only times we
should be interested in the Executive
Comrnittee’s actions, though. Ifwe are
really as proud of our rich tradition of

‘i honor and integrity as we like to claim,
we must show interest in student gov- -. , »
PHOTO COURTESY rt «I ':r -
emment year'r0und- _ BussFUI. MATRIMONY. A happy lesbian couple  after their Hawaii Wedding. Though the center of debate is now San Francisco, the issues remaii:1 the same.
1 There IS no questlon that we carry Thebeauty and wonder of this country is inits unique promise of civil liberty and sex? Every American has an equal right to happiness regardless of his or her

our heritage with reverence and awe.
Concern stems from the lack of stu-

equality for all persons. It is the fuel that keeps this nation running. But right now,
America is on empty and badly needs to make a pit—stop torefuel.
dent interest in events such as the re- On Thesdaya President Bush announced that he Will Pf0P0Se that COIISIBSS P388
Cent revi Sions to the EC Constitution an amendment to the Constitution to ban gay maniages. Nothing will hurt the sanctity
‘ The more mundane as t f tud t of American liberty more than the successful passage of such an amendment. It
pee S 0 _S en vio1atestheFrrstAmendment’s guaranteetoreligious freedom,theFourthAmendment’s
government Often Chase away lntere Sh guarantee to privacy, and the Fourteenth Amendment’s guarantee to equal liberties for
This is a tragedy. every American. The decision to oppose or support gay marriages should be a solely
( We must take a more active [016 personal decision made by each person’s individual sentiments towards the issue, not

_ * in our lives at Washington and Lee. by “‘°_n?:’X:]"“_‘°“t‘ thas _ I , u_ this the mi
Four years is a long time to spend at mean gov en "OJ C on over m '

personal or moral beliefs as long as these values do no harm others. Just like
marriage is the essence of happiness for two heterosexuals who are devoted, mar-
riage also brings happiness to two homosexuals with a commitment to each other.
To deny people the right to be happy based on their personal beliefs is immoral and
constitutionally illegal.

If Americans are offended by homosexual relationships, that is, a personal
sentiment. Everyone goes through life offended by something, whether it is
someone’s rude behavior in a restaurant or someone’s’ style of clothing. But regard-
less of how offensive the behavior may be, it doesn’t wanant making the offensive
behavior illegal unless that behavior somehow endangers hurrran life or infringes on
someone else’s rights. Last I heard, the right to not be offended was not a rightand

_ _ varion to ban gay marriages is mainly derived from religious and mT*  a homosexual relationship has never caused any physical dangers
‘ 3 Place Wltneut trylng to leave some personal beliefs. Many who are opposed to it often argue that the R‘ ml that I can think of.
“ kind of an impact. Look for ways Bible forbids such relationships and thereby these relationships TRAN  KM ‘05 Sonic opponents of allowing homosexual marriages say that it

harms the sanctity of marriage in general. I did a little online investiga-
tion to see what some of the leading causes of divorce were and none
of them mentioned homosexuality as a cause of divorce. The main causes were money
problems, alcohol and drug problems, outside relationships, and immaturity. Those

are immoral and should be prohibited. If the government were to
ban gay rnaniages, it would in essence set a religious precedent
and violate the First Amendrnent’s guarantee of religious freedom The decision to
support or oppose gay marriages is a spiritual one that must be determined by and only

that you can make this place better.
Some will find their niche in organi-
zations like the Outing Club, others

‘ In the Greek S 3’ Stem and Sun Others by each individual. TheAmerican government has no right to interfere in the religious who claim that homosexual relationships cause divorce and marriage instability need
in the myriad remaining student or- -practices of its  By allowing lawmakers to incorporate such an amendment into to conre forth with couples who have claimed that their marriage problems mulwd
ganizationg, , the American Constitution, Americans will in essence give up their rights to choose directly from homosexuality. The only problem that homosexuality can bring to a

In Short, we believe that Students their way of life because the government will assume the role of personal conscience. heterosexual marriage is if one partner is homosexual and just didn’t realize it and now

"V Not only would such an amendment invade  rights to-freely practice their does. If the motivation to include such an amendment is to preserve the sanctity of

must take an active role in their lives
here at Washington and Lee. Do
something to make a difference. Pay
kl attention to the Executive Committee,
take an active role in your student
organizations or write a letter to the

religious beliefs, it also violates citizens’ privacy rights guaranteed in the Fourth Amend-
ment. Any relationship between two people is solely between those two people and is
not the concern of any person in America, or any person for that matter TheAmerican
government has no right to interfere in people’s private lives and dictate what they
should or should not do. By enabling the government to interfere in the private lives
of citizens, we are in essence allowing the American government to carry on a tradition

marriage, it would be wiser to ban divorce lawyers than gay marriages. Ahomosexuai
marriage in no way violates the purity of a heterosexual marriage.

We need to be very cautious in what we amend to the Constitution. This seems
to be an abrupt and rash action on Bush’s part that is spurred purely by political
pressures. Such an anrendrnent is unconstitutional—bottom line. Regardless of
how you feel about homosexuality, you have no right to prohibit homosexuals from

_ of petty gossip and snooping. A expressing themselves in the only way they know how—t.hemselves. Just like any
edlton I I ~ Such an amendment also violates the equality to which gays and lesbians are person who may say vulgar things that I may not agree with to me, I can’t take his
' entitled in American society Why should the relationships between people of the right to express them. I can argue and disagree vehemently until he changes his

opposite sex deserve more attention than relationships between people of the same mind but I can’t deny him to the right to utter those words.

“Monologues” are vulgar concoction with political purpose

Recently, the Vagina Monologues were performed another partner. Relief for this long-suffering house- ful at their newly discovered favorite body part.

~Campus Notices

 

"l‘lI'IlES!!!!!!!ll!!!!!!!!'I‘lI'IlFSi!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!”

at Washington and Lee. The proceeds from the perfor-
mance beneﬁted Project Horizon, a Rockbridge County
support organization for battered women. Although the
end was honorable, the means, the performance of The
Vagina Monologues, were, at best, a poor decision, at
worst, a calculated attempt to infect our campus with
victimization feminism

The Monologues are a performance based on hun-
dreds of interviews of women of all ages by the author,
Eve Ensler. She has written a collection of speeches

 

Editor in chief
Assistant Editor
News Editor

Opinions Editor ~

Asst. Opinions Editor
Arts & Life Editor
Asst. Arts & Life Editor
Photography Editor
Asst. Sports Editors

Production Assistants

Copy Editors

Business Manager
Asst. Business Mgr.
Circulation Director
Asst. Circulation Dir.
Distribution Dir.

Jeb Brooks

Kyle Wass

Erin Julius

Caley Anderson
Anne Finley

Megan Morgan
Chris Lauderman
Cody Gabbard

John Hyland

Chad Kiewiet de Jonge
Emily Edwards

Kelly Jo Larsen
Alexa Moutevalis
Kate Zawyrucha
Sarah Beth Campbell
Vanessa Amess
Aubrey Miner

Paul Seifert
David Seifert
Stuart Presnell
Rob Rain
Thomas Worthy

The Ring—tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee Univer-

sity, Lexington, Virginia The Ring—tum Phi is a member of

The Publications Board, but is otherwise independent
The Ring—tum Phi welcomes all responsible sub-
missions and letters. All submissions must be e-mailed
to phi@wlu.edu or in the University Center mailbox by
5 p.m. Friday to appear in the following week’s edition.
The Ring-rum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions
for content and length. Letters and columns do not
necessarily reflect the opinion of The Ring—tum Phi
Editorial Board. Advertising does not reflect the opin-

ions of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper

observes current court deﬁnitions of libel and obscenity.
The Ring-tum Phi
University Commons Room. 34 I
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Telephone: (540) 458-4060
Fax: (540) 458-4059
Emdil: phi@wlu.edu
, Subscription rate $40

wife who wanted no more than simple monogamy and
was driven mad by a heartless, insensitive, unfaithful
husband, was found in an interview with the
vulvacentric Eve Ensler.

In another, entitled The Flood, the story is told of
a 72-year-old who has never seen her vagina. As a
young adult, she had been traumatized by a falling out
during a date. Of course, her male companion was to
blame for her years of pain and her experience with Eve
Errsler’s liberating feminist encounter with her genitalia

that, although cheered by feminists caused her to shed tears of joy at the
far and wide as a liberating exarnina— gift she found. In truth, one wonders
tion of the oppression and RIGHT OF THE PFSLE how this lady lived for sixty or more
demonization of the female genitalia, BRETT KIRWAN 04 years totally paralyzed by one bad
are little more than a disturbing cel- memory.

ebration of female victimization and vulgar exhibition-
ism

Each of the thirteen monologues is based, more or
less, on the same tired feminist theme: women have
been unable to discover their true selves due to the
oppression and misunderstanding of men and, thank
God for Eve, they now are at peace with and indeed
celebrate their, ahern, plumbing.

The production opens with a brief monologue en-
titled Hair. This terribly too descriptive piece tells the
sad tale of a wife held hostage by a husband who de-
mands that she be clean-shaven. Driven mad by his
request, she eventually takes to therapy and marriage
counseling. Needless to say, the therapist had no sym-
pathy for her, and, of course, her husband takes up with

In athird, the story is told of a young girl who was
raped at a young age and suffered numerous other
vagina—related tragedies throughout her young life, but
was set free by a not—completely—consensual sexual
encounter with a much older woman. That’s right, ac-
cording to The Vagina Monologues, lesbian rape is
cathartic and a useful form of therapy for abused chil-
dren.

What’s even more disturbing about this festival
of “Woe is me” feminism is the unnecessarily graphic
and ﬂat-out pornographic manner in which it is pre-
sented. The Monologues are designed to be a sort of
encounter experience with the audience. The women in
attendance are meant to come away from a performance
of the Monologues feeling uplifted, liberated and joy-

FOR RESULTS, ADVERTISE WITH TIHZ PHI

540-463-5954

LOOK YOUR BEST FOR
FANCY DRESS!

Come by and see S/rip, Connie and W/Zson at the NE W /. OCA 770/W

SKIP THOMPSON’S

BARBER SHOP

17 S, Randolph ~ Lexington, VA
Open Mon., Tues., Thurs., & Fri. 8 a.m. - 5 p.m.
, Sat. 8 a.m. - noon; Closed Wed. & Sun.

As such, each monologue is full of graphic de-
scriptions of everything from masturbation to men-
struation. An audience member quickly ﬁnds himself
squimringasthemostprivatedetailsofawomanare
recklessly paraded about Each builds upon the previous
one’s level of shock to arrive at a crescendo of the audi-
ence gleefully shouting a particulariy offensive four-let-
ter nicknarne for the female genitalia. For example, one
Vagina Monologues-sponsored gathering in Madison
SquareGardenwasmar.'kedbyGlermClosedroppirrgto
herkneesonstageandscreamingtheword Suchpan-
deringtoalady’sbaserinstinctsservenottofreethem
frommale oppression, butrarhertoencourageamiddle-
school locker room type of sexual understanding.

Most distmbinglythough,ist.’riattheVagina_Mono-
logues have, since their creation, been used as a tool to
turn Valentine’s Day, the only holiday wholly dedicated
totrueromancebetweenamarrandawoman, intoan
oocasiontolambastemenandfocusesonviolenoeagainst

4 women V-day, or Violence Day, is a political concoction

of Violent feminists and has turned a beautiful holiday
into a crass political examination ofthe already decided-
uporr guilt ofrnen as abusers and exploiters.

Washington andbee, althoughmorethancorrectin
supporting avery valuable charity, would do well to shield
itself from this paniculariy odious type of male-bashing,
ferrrale-victirriiairgradicalferrririisrri.

This article appeared in the Ring—tum Phi the
last time “The Vagina Monologues” appeared on
-campus

Student Discounts

 

MONDAY, MARCH 1, 2004

 

Higher, more aggresive tobacco taxes cut youth smoking

Every day as I walk around campus, I am
alarmed by the number of college-age smok-
ers and deeply concerned for their health and
well-being. During their four years at Wash-
ington and Lee University these young people
learn and grow significantly - brilliant young
minds on the verge of propelling themselves
into the world and making significant contri-
butions to our society. It breaks my heart to
see them working their minds daily in class
while simultaneously cutting years off their
lives by smoking.

Governor Warner and state legislators are
right in proposing a tobacco tax increase.
With the state’s current tax at just 2.5 cents
per pack, Virginia ranks dead last in the na-
tion. Over the past three years, more than two-
thirds of states have increased their tobacco
tax for a national average of 72 cents per
pack. Last year alone, 16 states and the Dis-
trict of Columbia increased cigarette taxes.

These taxes have uniformly led to fewer
smokers, especially among youth, and fewer
prematuredeaths. Yet Virginia has failed to
face this since 1966, when the 2.5—cent tax was
enacted. By increasing the tax to 75 cents we
would have 17.3 percent fewer young smok-
ers and prevent 72,000 children from ever
starting. This would result in 23,000 fewer pre-

mature smoking—related deaths, while inspir-
ing 55,000 adult smokers to quit, according to
information compiled by the Campaign for To-
bacco-Free Kids.

Increasing the tax also would signifi-
cantly curb soaring health care costs. Cur-
rent health costs and lost productivity attrib-
utable to smoking are more than 200 times

higher than the total amount raised by the 2

current tax. Our state could save as much as
$35 million in health care costs over a five-
year period through this tax change. Given
tough economic times, this critical 75—cent in-
vestment in Virginia no longer can be ignored.
TOBACCO companies would have you
believe that higher cigarette prices simply
prompt kids to smoke cheaper cigarettes. The
truth is this: For every 10—percent increase in
the price of cigarettes, youth smoking is re-
duced by 7 percent and overall cigarette con-
sumption is cut by 3 percent to 5 percent.
Big Tobacco also claims the payments
Virginia receives from the 1998 tobacco settle-
ment agreement, 10 percent of which funds
youth tobacco prevention in the Common-
wealth, will significantly decline. This is an
exaggeration. Reductions in settlement pay-
ments are tied to nationwide sales volume.
When a state’s cigarette tax increases, it sub-

stantially reduces smoking within its borders
— but its effect on nationwide sales is much
weaker. Besides, does Big Tobacco really be-
lieve Virginia would rather see more of its
youth smoke and die than face a small reduc-
tion in settlement funds?

The tobacco industry contends a tax in-
crease would hurt tobacco farmers and lead
to tobacco industry layoffs. The reality is that
smoking in the state is responsible for only a
tiny fraction of the overall demand for the
burley and ﬂue—cured cigarette tobacco grown
in Virginia. That demand would decline by only
about one-tenth of 1 percent if the state in-

-creases the cigarette tax by 75 cents a pack,

making the tobacco industry’s stated concern
for farmers and workers disingenuous, at best.

Another myth is that declining sales will
lead to a drop in projected revenue because
people won’t buy cigarettes. In fact, in every
one of the more than 30 states that increased
cigarette taxes in 2002 and early 2003, tax rev-
enues actually rose while smoking and ciga-
rette sales declined.

BIG TOBACCO also argues that cigarette

taxes hurt mainly low-income smokers. Instead,
the evidence shows that low-income Ameri-
cans not only have the highest smoking lev-
els — but also are four times as likely to quit

because of higher prices. This frees up more
income for those who need it most, while re-
ducing their pain and suffering from tobacco-
related illnesses.

Most important, Virginians support this
tax. Virginia voters favor a 75-cents-a-pack
increase by more than 2-1 (71 percent to 28
percent), a new poll shows. This support is
evident among virtually every political and
demographic group, including large majori-
ties of Democrats, Republicans, and indepen-
dents; men and women; young and old. The
survey confirms raising the tobacco tax is
not a partisan issue - but an issue of com-
mon sense among voters from every educa-
tion and income level and every region in
Virginia.

As we near the 400th anniversary of
Virginia’s founding, let’s not just celebrate
our history but ensure our future by passing
this crucial legislation for the safety of our
youth and for healthier Virginians in the cen-
turies to come.

Dr. Thomas Burish, in addition to his
duties as President of the University, is the
President—Elect of the American Cancer
Society. This article reprintedfrom the Rich-
mond Times-Dispatch with his permission.

Mind-boggling: Flag of the Confederacy represents archaic ideas along dead

Every time I pass a freshman dorm on

_ this campus, I usually see at least ONE Con-

federate ﬂag draped in a window. And every
time, I have to scratch my head as to why
some W&L freshmen, along with many other
southerners, continue to cling to his anti-
quated symbol.

Now, understand one_ thing. I am a psy-
chotic, frothing—at—the-mouth Civil War buff.
The only way that I, a San Diegan, even
heard about Washington and *
Lee was because of my near-en-
cyclopedic knowledge of the
Civil War. Not only can I tell you
the name of Jeff Daniels’ char-
acter in Gods and Generals (Joshua Cham-
berlain), I can tell you the name of the regi-
ment (20th Maine), the name of the original
commanding officer (Col. A. Ames), and what
happened to Chamberlain after his famous
stand at the Battle of Little Round Top (he
was injured severely and promoted to Gen-
eral by Grant, who thought it would be a
posthumous promotion, and l.ater he suffered
a crippling injury at Petersburg, but survived
to receive the Confederate surrender).

Yet, despite this, and despite having
my Georgian relatives try to explain it to
me several times, I fail in my understand-
ing of why the Confederate flag is consid-
ered some sort of “heritage” symbol. Even
leaving aside racism, which has been the
big issue in recent years, Ijust don’t see
why. I look at the Rebel flag and I see a
symbol that stands for defeated ideas- sov-
ereignty ofthe states, anti—federalism, and, of
course, slavery. The idea that somehow
we need the flag of the erroneous cause to

    

mmaaa
" CALEYANDERSON ‘O6

honor the brave soldiers and leaders of the
Confederacy is silly.

Here’s a poser for you— Would General
Lee approve of the myriad Confederate ﬂags
that hang over his recumbent statue? Most
people would naturally say “yes.” After all,
he was a Confederate general, right? Yet I
would say not. After the war, Lee recognized
that the Confederacy and the ideas it repre-
sented were not to be. He applied for a Fed-
eral pardon and called for
unity. Though he likely
would have taken the same
cour'se if he had the chance
to do it all over again, man
of honor as he was, he knew that further ad-
vocation of the defeated point of view would
serve only to hurt the nation. He did not
participate further in southern politics, in-
stead choosing to serve a quiet academic life
as the greatest president of our University.
I personally admire him more for his work
here at the University than for-his work on
the battlefields of the Civil War. I think that
now, in the 21st Century, such symbols have
no place. The Confederate States of America
are no longer sovereign as far as I know.

Thus, what it really comes down to in
the end is this— the dead ideas enshrined in
this ﬂag outweigh whatever value it has as a
“pride” symbol. Under this ﬂag, slaves were
whipped and beaten, the Constitution of the
United States was torn to shreds, and those
defending that Constitution were killed.
What prompts me to call attention to this
issueris not a dislike or disrespect of that
region that was represented by the Stars and
Bars, but rather my great love of the ideas

represented in the Stars and Stripes. Which
brings me to my next complaint.

What boggles me even more is when
someone ﬂies the American ﬂag alongside the
Rebel ﬂag. The United States’ most bloody
war in its history was against the Confed-
eracy. I do not question that Robert E. Lee
was a great man, but the fact is undeniable
that he engineered the deaths of hundreds
of thousands of courageous soldiers fight-
ing in the name of the Constitution and of
America The flag of the United States and
the flag of the Confederacy are no more com-
patible than the political views of Abraham
Lincoln and Jefferson Davis.

Southern pride, perhaps, might be a more
acceptable justification for ﬂying the Rebel
ﬂag. But then, why must we use the Confed-
erate ﬂag? ‘Show your pride in being from
the south by putting up your South Carolina
flags, your Georgia ﬂags, what have you.

Certainly I don’t need to advise the proud

citizens of Texas hereat W&L of this fact,

the rest of us shouldfollow their lead (though I '

I doubt I’ll be ﬂying the bear ﬂag any time
soon).

I recognize that, not being from the South
myself, I may not understand some aspects
of this odd practice. I invite all of you who
disagree to write in to explain your point of
view. This article is simply my own explana-
tion of why I object to this practice, given
what I know about the situation, and I am
particularly eager on this occasion to gain
an understanding of why images like the
photo adjacent to this article continue in their
relevance. Th-is is the 21st Century. Flying
cars and ﬂoating cities are‘ still a long way

 

I PHOTOCOUROF ‘Eh’! an..0rg

MEANINGI£SS. The ﬂag ﬂies in South Carolina

off, but I had hoped, at least, that the ﬂag of
the Confederacy would have ceased to be a
meaningful symbol. I would imagine that few
W&L students would seriously defend the
rebels’ politics, why would they choose to
fly their ﬂag? Perhaps one of you can en-
lighten me, but for the moment, I simply do
not understand why this near—150 years dead
nation continues to command respect.

‘Y

|"HSPiRED_,B‘I!’ H  RU  Stills A D DARWIN.

Seats five, has  cubic
feet at cargo space, and
is available with 180 hp

and a 6-speed manual
shift. Even evolution
can’! fully explain it.

 rates was sass. LL15 iii», sac acne use
maraanase*mmcat:iai:a.cwaes
carves!  are  ta. acme tax
aria Lmss,  its asam ,  
  airs  he an

  

]oHNl-IYIAN)
AmANrSi>oRisEi>rroir
mm m

 

THERl1\lG~TU1vlPH1

MONDAY, MARCH 1, 2004

PORTS .

Baseball wins home opener, 10-4

’ BY JOHN HYIAND
ASSISTANT SPORTS Ei)rroRs

The W&L baseball team opened the season 3-
2 in their February break in Atlanta, beating
Oglethorpe twice, splitting with Villa Julie and drop-
ping a tight 4-3 decision to Emory. They returned
to Lexington and won their home opener on
Wednesday against Southern Virginia, who entered

the game 2-3.

The Generals took a 3-0 lead in the second
inning and led 3-1, when they broke the game open
in the fourth on senior first baseman Bryan Mulhem
hit a bases loaded double that scored three runs
and gave the Generals a 6-1 lead. W&L would score
three more runs in the ﬁfth and another insurance
run in the eight en route to a 10-4 win. For the game,
Mulhem went 3 for 4 with four RBIs. Sophomore
second baseman Scott Gosselink also went 3 for 4
with two runs scored and senior shortstop Austin
Allain was 2 for 3 with two runs and an RBI. The
Generals were also helped by four errors made by
SVU ﬁelders that translated into three unearned
runs. Senior pitcher Mike Wert was stellar on the
mound, allowing one run and striking out six over
six innings to improve his record to 2-0 on the year.
Mulhem added two innings of scoreless relief to

close the game.

The Generals faced Mt. Aloysius in a double-
header on Sunday and have one more non-confer-
ence game against Mary Washington on Wednes-
day before starting their ODAC season next Satur-

day vs Emory and Henry.

SWIIIIIIIIING. The baseball team starts their home season strong with 21

PAGE 5

Womens’ basketball falls in
tournament quarterfinals

W&L SPORTS RELEASE

SALEM, Va. — The eighth-seeded
Washington and Lee women’s basketball
team used a 14-2 run late in the second
half to pull within 62-61 of top-seeded
Eastern Mennonite, but came up short as
the Generals fell, 64-61, to the Royals in
the opening round of the ODAC touma-
ment on Thursday afternoon.

Vtfith 8:50 ‘remaining, EMU (22-3) held
a 60-41 lead over W&L (9-17), but saw
that lead slowly evaporate over the next
7:06.

Sophomore guard Louisa Feve
(Bethesda, Md./Winston Churchill)
started the Generals’ comeback bid with a
pair of foul shots at 8234, while junior for-
ward Emily Barker (Clifton, Va./Mount
Vernon) drained a three-pointer at 7:59 to
cut the Royals’ lead to 60-52.

Eastern Mennonite ended its score-
less streak when sophomore forward
Regina Sours scored a layup at 6:59, but
freshman guard Sarah Otey (Williamsburg,
Va./I-Iampton-Roads) answered for the
Generals with a triple at 6:34 to pull W&L
back to within 62-55.

Womens’ swim team takes first V

BY ANN STEWART BANKER
STAFF WRITER

The Washington and Lee women’s
swim team took first place at the ODACI
Atlantic. States Championship held at
Radford University over Feb Break. The
win marked the team’s 11th consecutive
claim to the ODAC title, a conference con-
sisting of ﬁve colleges. The women’s team
just barely edged out its main rival,
Randolph Macon, for the ODAC win,
outscoring them by only 37 points with a
total of 557.

“Randolph Macon has been a big ri-
val for the past two years,” said senior co-
captain Erin Dougherty. The lady Gener-
als lost to ‘them in the regular dual season
meet. According to Dougherty, Head
Coach Kiki Jacobs had predicted her team
to win ODACs by a mere seven points.

The events were spread out over three
days. Day one, senior co—captain Mandi
Kimble started the meet off on a good note
by placing second in the 500 Free with a
career-best of 5:32.54. Freshman Sarah
Bloom was not far behind, coming in third
in the same event with a time of
5:38.21.Freshman Abbie Sauter placed
third in the 200 I.M. and also helped the
200 Free Relay team to ﬁnish third, along
with teammates Bloom, Suzie LaPleur and

Kristine Holda.. The Generals 400 Med-
ley Relay team placed second, helping to
put them in the lead at the end of the first
day by only three points.

Day Two, Kimble placed second in
the 400 I.M. and sophomore Kristine
Holda placed second in the 200 Free. Both
the 200 Medley Relay and the 800 Free
Relay clenched second place finishes.

Sophomore Keturah Akida ended the day’

with a second place showing in the 100
Back, allowing the Generals to maintain
their tight lead over Randolph Macon.
Day Three was full of successes for
the Generals. Kimble won the 1650 Free
(mile) withatimeof 19:05.85. Holdaplaced
secondinthe 100 Free withatime'of54.86.
Akida once again displayed her talent in
backstroke by placing third in the 200 Back
while Sauter placed third in the 200 Breast.

The day ended with the Generals placing

second in the 400 Free Relay, securing
them into the first place position.

Upon concluding the meet, Kiki
Jacobs was named Coach of the Year for
the Atlantic States competition. The
W&L women finished the overall season
with a 7—4 record and a 3—1 mark in the
ODAC division. The season has ended,
and the swimmers can now relax (except
for that off-season training) until next year
when they are expected to be back in ac-
tion despite losing three valuable seniors.

10-4 win over Southern Virginia, 10-4.

W&L continued its scoring drive as
freshman forward Jessica Hunsinger

1 (Mayer, Ariz./The Orrne School) scored

back-to-back layups at 4:38 and 3:20, and
senior forward Sara Michaels (Norfolk,
Va./Norfolk Academy) added a bucket at
1:44 to set the score at 62-61.

The Generals would get no closer,
however, as the go-ahead triple attempt
from Barker fell short with ﬁve seconds
remaining and EMU gained the ball and a
trip to the foul line with 1.3 seconds on
the clock. Sophomore guard Carrie
Grandstaff sank a pair of foul shots to set
the final score at 64-61.

Michaels led the Generals with a
game-high 27 points and added 10 re-

bounds, while Hunsinger scored 11 

points, blockedifour shots and grabbed a
game-high 14 rebounds. Otey and Barker
both scored eight points on the afternoon.

Sophomore guard Laura Ludholtz led A

EMU with 21 points and 13 rebounds,
while sophomore forward Stephanie
Mathews and Grandstaff contributed 13
and 12 points, respectively.

The Generals conclude their season - »

with an overall record of 9-17. Eastern
Mennonite, which advances to face

' fourth—seeded Guilford in the ODAC semi-

ﬁnals, improved to 22-3.

Ritter’s change of plans works out Well

school records in both events, but I didn’t expect to do it so
quickly,” he said. “I never thought I would break the pool
record, but again, I surprised myself.”

BY KIM GUNST
STAFF WRmaR

Eric Ritter did not plan on swimming in college, but he
thought he would give it a shot after coaching a swim team in
his hometown of Birmingham, Alabama the summer before
coming to W&L. And it’s a good thing he did.

The senior captain, who was recently
named Division IH National Swimmer of the
Week by CollegeSwirnrning.com, now holds
two school records and is one of only two
Generals whose name appears on W&L’s pool
record board. But being a successful swirn—
mer wasn’ t anything new for Ritter.

“I started swimming when I was three,
basically because both my older sisters
swam,” he said. “I didn’t really have much of
a choice in the decision. Swimming was just
something that I could do well. There was no
speciﬁc moment when I knew this was some-
thing I wanted to pursue; it just kind of hap-
pened.”

Ritter is a three—time Academic All-Ameri-
can swimmer who has been able to excel in
academics as well as swimming-~—an accom-
plishment he is most proud of, he says.

His record-breaking success began when
he broke the 100 back record as a freshman
and continued as he broke the 200 back record
the following year. Both records had stood
since the late 19803.

Just recently, Ritter beat the 100 back pool
record from the 1982 NCAA championships
hosted by W&L. “I thought I could break the

“HI havebeen able to

Ritter says the team’s closeness and enthusiasm have A . _
really contributed to his personal achievements as well as to . ‘
the team’s strong performances this season. The team’s win

over Gettysburg is a victory Ritter likes to recall.

    

help someone else swim
faster than they expected,
then I have contributed
to the team more than
breaking records or going
to nationals.”
ERIC RIITER

“We went into that meet thinking that it
would be close and that we had to step up
to the challenge,” he said. “And we did
just that and more. The meet ended up be-
ing very lopsided - not because they swam
poorly, but because we simply swam faster
than we had before.”

The men’s team ﬁnished strong this sea-
son when they won the Bluegrass Moun-
tain Charnpionships on February 14. Ritter
helped his teammates receive top honors in
the 400 Medley Relay (3:30.66) and place
second in the 200 Free Relay (1 :26.90). Indi-
vidually, he placed thirdinthe 50free (21.63),
claimed the title in the 100 backstroke (52.20),
and won top honors in the 200 back with a
pool record (1:36.12).

“IfI have been able to help someone else
swim faster than they expected, then I have
contributed to the team more than breaking
records or going to nationals,” he said.

Ritter may be wrapping up his four years
as a W&L athlete, but he has bright plans
for his future. He will be attending Univer-
sity of Alabama-Birrningham Medical
School next year. He hopes to be able to
swim every once and a while.

Tuesday, March 2

Wednesday, March 3

Thursday, March 4

THIS WI-:EK’s SCHEDULE

Saturday, March 6

Friday, March 5

Sunday, March 7

0 M Lax vs. Lycoming--
3:30

O M Tennis at Hampden-
Sydney--3:00

0 W Tennis at Hollins--
3:30

0 W Tennis at
Lynchburg--3:30 ,
°WLax vs. Greensbor0--
4:00

0 Open

0 Baseball vs. Mary
Washington--3:00

1:00

3:00

0 Baseball vs. Emory &
Henry (DH )--12:00
0 M Lax at Gettysburg--

0 WLax at VA Wesleyan--

0 Open

637 Waddell "St.
Lexington, Va. 24450

(s4o) 464-9042

Fax (540)464-6366

 

v

SPORTSWEAR

Ring-tum Phi

STSTRAV

        
    

ELCOM

’ Sell TF5 5 Eu sit, 60 me:
Now wing On~(u’mpAus Raps

L800-648-:28-$9 I wvm.ststravcl.¢om

   
 

Support
Generals’
Athletics

 

#1 Spring Break Vacations!

Cancun, Jamaica, Acapulco, Bahamas & ‘
Florida. Best Parties, Best Hotels, Best Prices!
Group Discounts, Organizers Travel Free!
Space _is limited! Book Now & Save!
1-800-234-7007
endlesssummertours.com

 

    

PAGE 6

'i'l’rléRt((-}’lit»tl’lll

PORTS

MONDAY, MARCH 1, 2004

Lacrosse teams stumble in beginning of the season
Women look past 11 -2 loss to St. Mary’s

BY SARAH BLOOM
STAFF WRHER

“We’re faster and stronger than we were last
year and we are ready for a tough schedule,” said
senior Sara Jurkowsky of the upcoming lacrosse
season.

The team returned early from Washington
Holiday to train at Skylark and prepare for competi-
tion. “This year’s team is really working hard on
improving the intensity of our play,” said head
coach Jan Hathorn. “One of our goals is to be con-
ference champions. . .another goal is to be a united
team that is knownfor its spiritgwork ethic, and
sportsmanship.” ‘

Fast and strong proved to be key forces against
Lynchburg on Wednesday. With a home ﬁeld ad-
vantage, the Generals took an early lead and held
on tight for a victory: 21-2 score. ‘Senior Kelly Taffe
and freshmen Kelly Evans and Mallory Lobisser
each claimed three goals for the Generals, leading
the team in scoring.

“I was a little nervous for my first game, but
once I got in there the adrenaline took over,” said
Lobisser of the game against Lynchburg. “The up-
perclassmen set the pace from the start and we had
a lot to live up to.”

Other goal—earners included junior Kristen
Brown, freshman Lane Earnest, senior Joanna Perini
and freshman Laura Hombuckle.

The team then traveled to Saint Mary’s City,
Maryland to take on tenth ranked St. Mary’s. The
ninth ranked Generals were unable to gain a lead
over St. Mary’s. The Seahawks claimed a final vic-
tory over Washington and Lee with a ﬁnal score of
1 1-2. Kelly Evans scored the only two goals by the
Generals.

Nationally ranked tennis teams open ODAC schedules on high note

BY JOHN HYLAND

sf»

CHR L GRA -TUMP

LOOKING AHEAD. Freshman attacker Avery Lovejoy
faces a Lynchburg defender.

As for upcoming games, the Generals have
grand ambition. “Our game plan is to make sure we
are working at our highest level in every game and
to take one game at a time,” said Hathom, “to keep
perspective by not looking too far ahead. We want
to ﬁnish strong!” ‘

The team next hosts Greensboro on Wednes-
day at 4:00PM.

Men fall shon‘ against #4 Washington

 

STEVEN MARINOS THE RING-TUMPHI

SFARCHING. Junior attacker Gavin Molinelli looks
to pass against Washington College.

BY CAMERON GARNER

STAFF WRHER

The Generals faced their first test on Satur-
day, in the form of the‘ Washington College
Shoremen. The tenth-rariked Generals came in with
a head of steam, trading goals with the Shoremen,
and ﬁghting to a 4-4 tie at the half. Solid defense
from senior captain Lawson Grumbine, juniors Eric

Koch and Bill Fox, and freshman Peter Goodwin
kept the Shoremen at bay and allowed the offense
to generate some good shots. Dustin Martin’s ex-
tra-man goal with 43 seconds remaining capped a
solid first half in which the Generals at times looked

as though they were on the verge of turning the

comer and controlling the rest of the game.

The second half would prove frustrating for
the Generals, however, as the defense began to tire
from overwork, and the offense spun its wheels
against a good defense and a 27-year old goalie

(move on with your life). With 12:1 1 left in the third '

quarter, W&L took its first lead of the game as jun-
ior attackman Gavin Molinelli scored the second of
his two goals off a feed from senior midfielder Mark
McLewee.

After over 6 minutes of scoreless lacrosse, the’

Shoremen ripped off a 4- goal spurt and never looked
back. Goals from sophomore attackman Sam Lane
and Chris Dodge, senior midﬁelder Stephen Berger,
and junior attackman Jon Spivey left the Generals
in a 8-5 hole. The fourth quarter began just as the
third, with the Generals coming out and scoring
first, as McLewee was just better than the man
guarding him. He drove from behind, split his man

and riﬂed a shot that super-senior Richard Yost, in
.all his experience (he graduated St. Paul’s high

school in Baltimore in 1993), could do nothing to
stop.

Unfortunately, the Generals couldn’t maintain
the offensive presence they exhibited in the first
half, and couldn’t contain (yeah, that’s right) the
WAC offense, allowing them to score 3 more goals
in the fourth. All—in-all a hard fought game that will
give the Generals much to think about as they look
down the road at Gettysburg. The Generals host
Lycorriing at 3:30 on Tuesday.

AssisTANT SPORTS EDITOR
The nationally ranked men’s

‘ and women’s tennis teams began

their ODAC season in nearly per-
fect fashion this weekend. The
eighth ranked men struggled over
their February break trip to Cali-
fornia against some top ranked
competition. They split their
squad this weekend so that one

team competed in a couple of non
conference match-ups in St. Paul,
Minnesota while the rest of the
team stayed in Lexington to be-
gin their ODAC schedule. The
Minnesota squad lost to third
ranked Gustavus Adolphus 7-0
on Friday to drop their record to
1-4. That squad roared back yes-
terday to defeat ﬁfteenth ranked
Bates handily, 6- 1, dropping only

first singles and first doubles.
Graham Nix, Austin Kim and K.C.
Schaefer each won their singles
and doubles matches. Mean-
while, the Lexington squad did
not lose a match in three meet-

ings with ODAC opponents, de— '

feating Virginia Wesleyan,
Bridgewater and Emory and
Henry to improve the team’s
overall record to 5-4, 3-0 ODAC.

Charles Anderson and Seth Mar-
tin each won all four of their
matches as the Generals appear
well on their way to repeat as
ODAC champs. They resume
their ODAC schedule on
Wednesday at Hampden-
Sydney.

The women also appeared
well on their way to repeating as
ODAC champs. Last year’s na-

tional runners-up and current
second ranked team in the nation
opened the season by defeating
Emory and Henry and Virginia
Wesleyan very handily, dropping
only one match. The Generals
used twelve different players in
the two meets and each player
won at least one match. They re-
sume their ODAC schedule on
Wednesday at Hollins.

Suppon
  W & L
-Sports

Your

 

Wash & Lee Post Bac 04

The Johns Hopkins Post-Baccalaureate
Premedical Program prepares college
graduates with strong academic records to
apply to the best medical schools by giving
them the personal attention, the necessary
science and math courses, and one-to-one
-academic advising. 1

For more information, visit
www.jhu.eduIpostbac or call 410-516-7748.

 want to become a doctor.”(

IOHNS HOPKINS

Post-Baccalaureate
Premedical Program

Your _
Reality:
“I don’t have the

required courses
for medical school.”

 

 

 

 LIFE

    

  

MEGANMORGAN
ARis&LiEEEDiioR

EMAEMoi<GANM1@wiUE1J

    

 

‘ PAGE 7 MONDAY, FEBRUARY 9, 2004
I . O O O O
. Heinz scholar knows ketchup, Washington and Lee diversity
Did you know that ketchup can actually they’ve been in Newark ever since.Ted attended gentlemen living at the.Chavis House have
taste different? It’s very true, according to one St. George’s School in Newport, Rhode Island. solved that problem for themselves—they
of W&L’s first Heinz Scholars, sophomore Ted Ted can thank his senior roommate for bought the equipment and now cut each other’s

‘ Archer. This past summer he sampled 30 introducing him to W&L. The roommate had hair.
different types while interning at the Heinz been a summer scholar and returned to St. “W&L people for the most part are some
headquarters in downtown Pittsburgh. Some George’sin the fall asahuge W&Lfan. Ted was of the nicest people you could meet
types of ketchup can be too salty, others have filling out the common application and decided anywhere,” Ted says, but there’s room for

, iioo much vinegar. “Heinz to send it t<ifW&L on a whim. improvement. gne of the bilggistfpdroblems

etchup really is the best W“%'“‘¥”—> Byatwisto ate, Ted got in and for W&L, as Te sees it, is a“ ac 0 iversity
tasting,” Ted asserts, though MORETHANMAINSTREAM the roommate did not (however, of thought” not a lack of diversity. “Some of
he might be slightly partial. KELLYJQ LAR3EN‘05 he did get into Sewanee and is the stuff people can get away with here,” Ted
As a Heinz scholar, Ted, a happy there). St. George’s was says, is shocking.

hi sophomore public policy major, receives a full a ‘lot like W&L, according to Ted. “lt only has When he first arrived at W&L, he found
tuition scholarship from the Heinz Corporation about 330 kids and only 20 black people,” Ted the amount of Confederate ﬂags disturbing.
and will intern with the company each summer. explains. Coming to W&L wasn't aculture shock “I don’t like it but I’m more indifferent to it
“It benefits them [Heinz] as much as us,” Ted for him then. “I was used to_it. It not terribly now. It could even be someone I’m friends  , .i n

‘ explains. Not only do the Heinz Scholars receive representative of the real world but its close with, but it’s the way they’ve been taught to JEBBROOKS RING-TUMPHI
a quality education at W&L, the company has enough,” Ted says. think. For them it really is a sense of pride and stereotypes and making assumptions, to
the chance to hand pick and groom leaders who‘ So far Ted has enjoyed his time here. “I history and that out weighs the way other actually go out and seek the truth and real
will eventually graduate and have loyalty to haven’t run into really any problems,” Ted people on campus feel. Hopefully in time it answers instead of accepting what everyone
the company, ‘perhaps even work for Heinz explains, but “there are a lot of things that won’t,” Ted says. “It’s not like people don’t else thinks. If you think something is wrong,

It sometime in the future. concern me.” Like most people, Ted has his pet— know it offends others, they just don’t care. do something about it. Also, keep in mind that

The second son of Haitian immigrants, his peeves about Lexington. He argues that there Its years and years of learned behavior and minorities are very diverse. If you feel like
parents left Haiti and moved to France before is no place for a black man to get his hair cut in it’s gonna take years and years to unlearn that you’ve had a bad experience with one person
coming to the USA in the mid seventies. They Lexington. “That’s more of a psychological behavior.” don’t take that to mean that’s how everyone is.

I settled in Brooklyn but moved to Newark, New thing than a problem. For black men, when you To his fellow students issues the following The same goes for minority students about
* Jersey, when Ted was five. Ted describes the go to the barbershop it’s like you’reanew man challenge: “I would challenge all students on majority students. Don’t feed into the
moved as from “really urban” tojust urban, and when you come out.” He and his fellow the W&L campus to, instead of accepting stereotypes.”
. .
w W &L seniors, Fancy Dress changes for better

« ° ' BY CHRIS LAUDERMAN more of the university community. In committee. The use of Traveller is en-

’ a '   W 6 - ASSISTANTARTSANDLIFEEDITOR the past athletes have had to miss the couraged plus many student drivers

‘I. ball. Also, the excitement of the week— have been hired.

end will build up to FD. The invitations for this year's event

BY MEGAN MORGAN the e3mPuS Or W3Shrhgr0h Many changes mark the 97"‘ Annual The Voltage Brothers, a band ap— have caused controversy. The ‘invita-

ART3&Ll1:E EDHOR 3nd ‘Lee UhrVerSrrY- Fur’ Fancy Dress Ball which will be held pearing in several movies including tions were in the form ofagolden ticket.

ii rewlhg 3 heheymeeh 111 Saturday in the Warner Center. Willy Shag, will play in the big gym. They The words were taken directly from the

I _ iwaresa the brides graduar‘ Wonka and the Chocolate Factory will play several different genres of mu— movie. Some students made the assump-

fAS Washmgmn and Le_e rug rh «lune from W33hrhg' be the theme of Fancy Dress this year. sic. The second noticeable change is tion that their invitation was afree ticket.
seniors prepare for their ton and Lee, will j0ih the It will begin at 9 p.m. and go until 1 that the small gym will have aprofes— However, that is not the case. The co-
rapldly ,ap' gruoms 311 a.m. Co-chairs of this year’s ball are sional DJ instead of a band. The DJ chairs said that the invitation wording

‘. pro ac hi n g alumnus Of Beth Creasey and Abby Harding. will fit in with the theme of the small was a “silly mistake.” They, acknowl-
graduatmm’ Washington Planning for FD started in Septem— gym. “We really wanted to try some— edge that it was confusing, especially
Lhey haze 3r1d Lees rh ber with weekly meetings and the se- thing different,” said Creasey. It is a for freshmen. To get into Fancy Dress

egun 0 B13ekShurga lection of the committee members. The way to keep the price of Fancy Dress you must buy real tickets. '

K inake plarls V r r 8 r h r 3 » theme was decided in October. Every low. Last year tickets were $120. This Tickets will be on sale in the Com-

.°r. the” Where he 15 night this week, the FD committee yearapackageis $90. mons LivingRoomthroughFriday. Tick-
hves post" P u r 5 u r h 8 members will be at the pavilion build— While Creasey and Harding would ets are $30 a piece and packages are -$90.
W&L‘ These g r 3 d u 3 r e ing the decorations. not reveal what the gyms would look Packages include two tickets, t—shirts.
plans are Sruures rh The first change made was to hold like, they did say that they tried to shot glasses, posters, and four cups..

1, for. both C,1V1.1 Ehgl- Fancy Dress on Saturday instead of capture the richness of the movie set Memorabilia and tickets can be pur-
the” Careers heer1hg- Friday at the suggestion of the Execu- Willy Wonka and the Chocolate Fac— chased independent of each other. “It’s
end r_e1a_'  i 3 E 3‘-‘V v ‘’ Kim ‘ tive Committee. The reason the day tory. going to be worth it. Everyone will have
nonshlp 5’ I Bu1k3 ’04 re" was changed was to accommodate Safety is a top priority of the FD a great time guaranteed,” said Harding.
and the re— eently an-

V’ Sulr rs r10r nounced her ,
 of   Gerbi oun y oor o ommons
Ohry 3 en a ement 1 f d b d f C
luh rhr:r* Lepine, a -
views ut . « I _

“i also several ib . h , d 1 _ “ :Y:£i"0§rar:i1:e BYMEGANMORGAN Brittany describes herself as being “like a five year
recent en_ A “g t 03 an B evms 04 wedding is ARTS&’.LlFEEDr1"OR old boy”, and therefore she didn’t hesitate to pick up
gageineni annonneeinenie planned for 4 pm. on Au_ . i the rodent and take it back to her room where she
Recently, two seniors have gust 14, 2004 in RE. Lee Many students may have noticed a string of odd stored it in a storage binland fed it mixed nuts. .

* announced their engage_ Memorial Episcopai announcements that have been ap— Brittany and her friend Emily

pearing recently in the Campus No-
tices. Among the strangest of these
was a notice attempting to locate the
owner of a lost gerbil. For those of
you that may have been puzzled by
this announcement, here is the story
behind the notice.

Freshman Brittany Bansak wa
walking to the Commons ‘last week
when she noticed a rodent crouched
against the wall. While she was not sure what type
of rodent it was, whether it was a mouse or gerbil,

Edwards then placed a message on the
Campus Notices in search of the owner
of this gerbil. The two received several
responses ranging from people inter-
ested in adopting the gerbil to people
stating that gerbils were evil. While the
owner has not decisively been located,
the two believe that the animal belongs
to a Phi Delt off—campus house, which
recently had a litter of baby gerbils. Brit-
tany has decided to keep the gerbil, which is black with
white paws and has half its tail missing, but she has

ments.
Amy Elizabeth Blevins,
daughter of Roger and Julie
_ Blevins of Greenville, South
‘ Carolina and Dustin Graham
Albright, son of Daniel and
Sandra Albright of
Roanoke, Virginia joyfully,
y and in thanksgiving to God,
announce their engage-
ment. The wedding will be

Church. Kim is a biology
major and Ryan graduated
with an accounting degree.
Ryan currently works for
Resnick, Fedder and
Silverman in Bethesda,
Maryland. After the wed-
ding, Kim will move to their
townhouse in Maryland
which is in the process of
being built and teach the

 

   

COLRTESYOF P .REl’I'lIJ:'S.ORG

    

     

       

 

 

   

held inAugust in Lexington, elementary level at a _ _ _ i _
Virginia at Lee Chapel on Montessori School‘ she was sure it was a pet because it didn t run away. not named it yet.
‘.
Tom ames Com an
Home for Sale Have a fun, safe ’ P V
 M/inns“. -_ _j . V‘ V .. ’§?é"- I
«A s A  3*   ‘5 Fancy Dress Weekend ‘“‘"“°‘.“"
Internship?
Special occasion?
i Let us help you look and feel
your best!!
Custom and Ready Made Suits
, " 704 N. MAIN ST., LEXINGTON, VA and Sports Coats
Built circa 1880 on Institute Hill, now completely restored with Shins, pants, shoes and all accessories
modern plumbing, wiring, heating, windows and new appliances.
1' , New carpeting in all main rooms plus stenciled wood ﬂoors. garden
4 Bedrooms, I 1/2 Baths, Livingroom/Diningroom, all new I Student Pack“ es &
kitchen plus a large utility/oﬂice Room. Large third ﬂoor A ,7   Gi l Cefti icate-5' Awlilable
Y storage room and an attached outside storage area. Get ready for FanCy Dress ' ‘F 5  J
Two large front porches and beautiful old stone walls on at our new locatlon In East Lex E I '5? —“
terraced landscaping. E‘ _-' ,._' ’ _ _
Convenient parlemg "‘ Cf"“‘a°‘Adaf“Ul:11htam5
w Easy walk to VMI, Washington and Lee or downtown shopping. oran appoin en or
Private lane access and parking. Taxes $400 yearly. More to offer than ever before '_ with questions
Asking $229,000.
. . 540-815-4557
(540)464-3738 _ _ _ _
, or www.j effersonﬂoristhomestead:com Adam_W1ihams@t0mJameSretali_C0m
(54())45(}47lg 540.463.9841 603 North Lee Highway .

 

PAGE 8

- THE

riitlirxic-riiitiPrr

AST ORD

MFGANMORGAN
ARis&LiFEEDiior<
Fi¢iAi;rit)RcANi/ii@wr1i.ie3ri
MONDAY, MARCH 1, 2004

Wintergreen Resort offers nice, close break from Lexington

BY ALLISON PERRY AND
KRISTINE CALDERONE
CONRIBUTING EDITOR AND STAFF warns}:

While most of the school attended Mardi Gras
for Feb. break, we decided to check out someplace
a little more exciting: Wintergreen Resort. Not as
exciting as Mardi Gras, you say? Well, you are
right, but we had a good time nonetheless.

Wintergreen is about an hour and a half drive
up 64E. If you are looking for a quick skiing get-
away for a night or even just the day, Vtrrntergreen
is probably your best bet. Snowshoe Mountain is
actually probably the best resort in the Virginia/
West Virginia area, but the drive of about 3 hours
or so makes it difﬁcult to go for just the day and get
in a decent amount of skiing.

We chose to stay Wednesday and Thursday
night and ski on Thursday and Friday. If you can
manage to skip a few classes, going during the
week is the way to go. The mid-week deals are
pretty good, and the slopes are a lot less crowded.
For a fairly low price, we could stay two nights in a
pretty nice room and ski for two days and nights.
We are not sure what exactly it was, but we would
describe the room as a studio/loft sort of thing.
The fact that we could walk out of the room right
onto the slope and put our skis on there was an
added bonus.

As for the slopes themselves, they were alright
but lacked variety._ Beginner and Intermediate ski-
ers may get bored easily after completing the three
or four slopes in each category.

The Highland side of the mountain offered a
little more selection for expert skiers. But we could
see that true experts (not being true experts our-
selves) might want something more. We found
ourselves spending more time on the ski lift than
the slopes.

Another complaint about the Highland side is
the discrepancy between the markings on the trail
and those on the map. The map shows that Lower
Cliffhanger is a double black diamond slope,
whereas the trail itself is marked as just a black
diamond. If skiers are not careful, they may ﬁnd
themselves in a pickle if they choose the wrong
trail. Just ask Kristine.

So if you go to Wintergreen to try some ski-
ing, take our advice on our favorite trails. Look-
ing to try a black diamond that is not as difficult
as some? Try Devil’s Elbow. Sticking to the inter-
mediate trails? Stay away from Tequila. (Well that
advice always works. We personally have not
had good experiences with any form of Tequila.)
Tequila was quite narrow and icy and also ran
right into an expert slope. Funny how Tequila
always throws us into situations we regret.

It is also worth the trip to go up on a Tuesday
or Thursday night because the UVA ski team prac-

A PHOTOGRAPHIC HISTORY or FANCY DRESS

Washington and Lee’s Special Collections.

On the left, students gather around the refreshment stand to chat at the 1950 Coca Cola themed Fancy
Dress. On the top right, students gather in a circle to Watch the festivities at the’ 1936 Washington and Lee
Fancy Dress. The woman in the photo on the right is President Ford’s daughter. All photos are courtesy of

tices then. Not only are they entertaining to
watch, they are quite attractive. But not as at-
tractive as the topless dirty old man that we
watched go down the expert slopes many times.
We’ll give him credit; he’s really experienced (in
skiing we mean. . .we don’t know about other ar-
eas.) But was it really warm enough to be skiing
without a shirt on? Do the rest of Wintergreen’s
patrons a favor and put your shirt back on! If we
wanted to see topless dirty old men, we would
have gone to...well we don’t know where we
would have gone.

On the subject of good-looking skiers (and
not so good—looking), let’s talk about the cute
ski lift attendants. There were definitely two
that caught our eye. But the situation poses a
little bit of a problem. How does one throw
game at the ski lift attendant when you only
have a few seconds to get on the lift and then
you’re gone? The first time you get on the lift,
you can always say, “Hi, how are you doing
today?” But what happens next time? The few
seconds you have only allow for a “Hi, Hello”
exchange, and you’ve already used that! And
heaven forbid should you miss the chair and
bust it on the ice in front of the attendant. Then
he has to stop the lift and help you up while
everyone looks and laughs. However, maybe
this would allow for a lengthier conversation
between the two.

Don’t worry. If you are not a skier, Winter-
green still offers other activities such as
snowboarding, tubing, golﬁng, and, of course, the
spa. Sadly, we did not have time to try any of these.

And if you do try any of these activities, you’ll
probably be hungry and looking for somewhere to
eat. But you won’t have much of a selection. There
are about six places to eat at the resort, but it’s
difficult to know when they are open. Some of the
restaurants are only open for certain seasons or for
holidays. Whatever you do, don’t go to the Edge
restaurant unless you are looking for an extremely
bad turkey sandwich and watery Diet Coke. On
that note, the Edge is probably the only place there
that sells Diet Coke. That is one huge strike against
Wintergreen for us. But the Edge does have a wide
selection of hot alcoholic drinks such as Hot Apple
Toddys. Yum.

Also stay away from Checkerberry cabin.
While it is convenient being right next to the en-
trance to the expert slopes, only go there if you like
all things German. We have nothing against Ger-
man food, this was just bad German food. The beef
goulash was not so much tempting.

All in all, we liked Vlfintergreen for a close and
convenient skiing get-away and give it three out of
ﬁve tridents. We must take away a few tridents for
the lack of night life and poor selection in restau-
rants. However, the topless dirty old man did make
the trip interesting and warrants at least one trident.

Q How can a pledgeship that never really started,
end?

 

Q Can we now agree to tear down Leybum Li-
brary? The only thing that maintained the awesome-
ness of it—— the powdered soap— was recently
changed to liquid.

Q “Piss in a cup and I’ll drink it.” -Travis Smith

Q I wish Sigma Alpha Omicron would stop using
Campus Notices for their Rush.

Q Michael Razvan Gaico is Scattergories King!

Q The best euphemism for pledgeship heard this.

week: “administrative duties.”

Q The fireman’s axe may be heroic, but can it
compare to the plumber’s plunger?

Q Queer Eye interior design tip for the Commons:
Though George, has a very lovely sword, he may
be better suited’ for the top of a building rather than
the inside.

Q Fact: The only reason our holier-than—thou
president “supported” the 12- 1 2-6 schedule was
that Traveller haunted him every night until he gave
in. He won’t be closing those doors again in a hurry.

Q I’m willing to pay good money to anyone will-
ing to act as a sniper and take out all those girls
who insist on wearing backless two-inch heels
arounds school in the ice and snow. You look ri-
diculous! If you want to parade around like that,
ask your Daddy to buy you a country club.

Q Seduction tip of the day: Perch atop a coffee
table sans clothes.

Q Whoever pooped in my drawer: Please come
clean it up ASAP!

Q Best Famous Lovers costume: JH as herself
and her date as an 803 band member. Take that
Kappa Sig.

Q Is Lalli really well-endowed? Can anyone ac-
tually conﬁrm that?

Q Scott Pittman has a hot body, but I think I’d
have a better chance with him if he ever drank
alcohol.

Q It’s sad when your shoe collection has more
character than you do.

Q I would rather get pink eye than go to sketchy
“late night." .

Q “Crazy” sounds like a nickname for an 80-year-
old man with missing front teeth.

Q Did you vote today in the student govern-
ment election?

Q Is your birthday on the Leap Day? If so, you’re
in. good company. Other Leap Day babies include
Pope Paul III, Dinah Shore and Ja Rule, who cel-
ebrated his seventh or 28th birthday yesterday.

Q What in the Hayulll are those spider posters
littering our fair campus?

I Q More on the arachnid propaganda: Kudos to

the posters’ posters for using Latin. Double Ku-
dos to whomever corrected the Latin grammar.

Q Jock Wols is devilishly handsome.

Q Thank you, Jan Kaufman, for your great cam-
pus notices. I was so excited to learn that last week
was both National Eating Disorders Awareness
Week and Children of Alcoholics Week. It was al-
most too much excitement to handle all at once.

Q Web Registration hurts my index finger.

Q Three cheers for the baseball team. Way to
win the home opener!

Q San Francisco was just the ﬁrst step. I‘say it’s

time for GLBTQTSIPQ marriage.

Q Attention Texan males: I’m normally opposed
to importing dates, but I’d make an exception for
one of the Bush twins. Plus, they’re a lot hotter
than Gerald Ford’s daughter.

Q W&L’s JFK: Is Tom Burish the University’s
first ever Catholic president?

Q The Co—op should stop forgetting orders.

Q Quick Poll: Would_W&L women rather have a
Tiffany or Harry VVmston engagement ring?

Q Phi phashion tip: Plain front pants, unless part
of a tuxedo or jeans, should be illegal.

Q Save the date: J eb Brooks’ 21st birthday party.
Friday, March 26 at the LCA house featuring
Monticello Road.

Q Finally, Spring is on the way.

Q Ten RCHS seniors agree. Brett Kirwan is a
“nerd.”

Q E-mail your anonymous Quick Hits to
phi@wlu.edu.

 

  

-1

‘F-37
_R

 
    

I‘

 

8. 75 5
55?

i/./0,;
M0. 2.9.

 

Wow, THESE KIDS IS SMART!

WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY
IRIN G-T U M

lire student voice of Washington and Lee Unii2enizy5ince1897

 

/0 6 2 Z
   VOLUl4E€‘VH»N0s 
TUr.sDAY,MArcH9,2OO4

Congratulations to Phi Beta Kappa inductees Vanessa Adams, Adam Allogramento,
Jennifer Backe, Anna Bagwell, Jessica Bennett, Amy Blakeway, Aniesa Bosch, Carolyn
Duffy, Lauren Egbert, Jeremy, Rory Gray, Miri Lim, Erin Lutkewitte, Seth Martin,
Matthew McDermott, Ian Mcﬂroy, Chad Meredith, Matthew Nelson, Eric Ritter, Vir-
ginia Snider, Maria Syska, Marty Tompkins, Jamie T oso, and Daniel Vos, Patricia
Ballantyne, Wesley Bell, Richard Busby, Steve Chambers, Rachel Chisolm, Peter
Djalaliev, Benjamin Hicks, Marriott Horton, Leila Kia, Erik Kiewiet de J onge, Robyn
Konkel, George Lozowski, Kelley Magill, Jeremiah McW1l1iarns, Rebecca Merritt, Marisa
Meyer, Alexandra Schaerrer, Tina Shen, Susan Somers, Carlos Spaht , Vicky Stanham,
Tom Trentrnan, and Matt Yohe. Mark C. Taylor of Williams College spoke.

BY ERIN JULIUS
NEWS EDITOR

Hazing allegations have plagued the Washington and
Lee fraternity system this year.

Currently, four houses face Interfraternity Council hear-
ings in light of such allegations, according to Dean of Stu-
dents Dawn Watkins.

“It’s been a tough winter for the fraternity system in terms
of pledgeship,” said IFC Advisor Matt Jacobs.

According to Jacobs, more minor complaints such as pro-
fessors’ concerns over a student’s academic
performance do not necessarily warrant an
IFC investigation. Any allegations that
meet the criteria of hazing as deﬁned in the
student handbook do warrant inquiries.

vice to the freshman and the house be-
cause, if the allegations are not true, then we have an opportu-
nity to clear the house,” said Dean Watkins.

The University’s first concern is to protect the safety of its
students, with the second major area of concem being to protect
the Greek system. When an allegation is made against a ﬁater-
nity, that house’s new member education program is suspended
for the duration of an investigation or pending an IFC hearing.

“Most of these cases have resulted from a ﬂood of com-
plaints,” said IFC President Brian Castleberry, “stories come
from several different areas and they corroborate each other.”

“This is the kind of stuff that gets houses shut down and
we don’t want to see that happen,” said Watkins, who said
she attributes the increase of allegations to a snowball effect.

Bourbonsales high
at local ABC store

 

BY KAEIA HARMON M A -  I
,.,.W,....,. I 2003 Jim Beam sales
You can’t be a Washington and  i 
I/ee student without making at least I
one trip to the local Alcohol Bev-

erage Control store.

 

New member education programs are not suspended un-
less a fraternity is facing an IFC hearing, though not all allega-
tions require investigations. “If information is lucid and clear,
it can go straight to a hearing,” said Castleberry.

If information is not clear and an investigation is required,
“Dean Leonard and the security office are an investigative
team,” Brian Castleberry said.

This is the kind of stuff that
gets houses shut down and we
don’t want to see that happen

Allegations of hazing halt four
‘new member education periods’

In an effort to clarify inaccurate campuswide speculation,
The Ring-tum Phi contacted members of all fourteen fraterni-
ties and asked whether or not their new membership education
period had been suspended by the University. Suspension in
no way indicates guilt.

Members of the following fraternities said that their new
member education programs have been suspended by the Uni-
versity: Beta Theta Pi, SigrnaAlpha Epsilon and Phi Gamma Delta

Members of the following fraternities said their new member
educationprogramsaneongoing: KappaAlpha, SigmaChi,Lambda
Chi Alpha, Pi KappaAlpha, Chi Psi, Phi Kappa Psi, Kappa Sigma
and Pi Kappa Phi.

According to Phi Delta Theta President
Brian Becker, the leadership of his fratemity
ended their new member education program
due to the low midterm grades of their

“If I get a call from a parent, faculty DEANDAWN W/ATKINS pledges. “It was an internal decision not
member or a concerned student and we based on University action,” Becker said,
don’t investigate, we are doing a disser— DEAN OFSWDENYS “we decided to end it.”

One fraternity chose not to comment cit-
ing concerns about the content of this article.

An investigation into allegations made against Chi Psi
cleared that fraternity of any wrongdoing.

Not all new member education violations involve hazing
allegations. Underground pledges, for example, are also
pledgeship violations, said Castleberry.

The IFC hopes to hear pending cases as soon as possible.

In addition to the four fraternities currently facing University
investigations or hearings, two other Washington and Lee chap-
ters have been found to not be in compliance with Nationals’ rules.
According to Jacobs, Phi Delta Theta has a national alcohol-free
housing policy and the issue recently “came to a 

Jacobs said that University officials have been trying to
work with this chapter of Phi Delta Theta to be in compliance
with its national policy. Jacobs emphasized that this action
was unrelated to any hazing situation.

Sigma Nu is not being investigated by the University, “we
haven’t been accused by the University,” said President Mike
Gaico, “there is simply a matter between us and nationals that we
have discussed.”

Committee investigates need
for university chaplain, boosts to religious life

I

Located on Nelson Street, the
local ABC store is a common last
stop before the weekend parties
begin. But what are the party
goers buying? Store manager
Buddy Johnson said that he could
not tell us what sells the most
among W&L students because
“Sometimes its hard to tell who’s
a student and who’s not.”

However, 2003 records
show that the top brand sold
in the store is Jim Beam
Straight—Bourbon Whiskey
and that Jim Beam is the sec-
ond most popular brand sold
in the state following Jack
Daniel 7 black—Tennessee
Whiskey. Records also show
that the Lexington store ranks
third in sales in the Stauntonl
Waynesboro area.

, So whether it’s W&L stu-
dents or not, somebody in Lex-
ington is drinking a lot of whis-
key.

 
   

Mar.

    

 

The graphic above represents the montly sales of bottles
of Jim Beam whiskey at the Lexington ABC store.

   

June, ,rury,

   

    

DATA PROVIDED BY VIRGINIA ABGSTORE 140
IMAGE COURTESY ]lMBEAM.COM

BY KATHERINE SHELL
STAFF WRITER

In the spring of 2003, a group
appointed by Provost ‘Laurent
Boetsch began a study to explore the
possibilities of additional religious
life resources for Washington and
Lee’s campus. Students were asked
to participate in a survey “to see if
students had religious needs and if
they are being met,” said Meredith
McNabb, ’04 Law.

The survey is part of ongoing
research by the faculty and staff to
determine whether additional re-
sources are necessary to aid all of
Washington and Lee, including the
Law School, faculty and undergradu-
ate students.

After investigating various
other similar colleges, the group has
discovered numerous ways to accom-
modate any religious needs felt by
the W&L community. The group ap-
pointed by Provost Thomas Williams

has researched schools both our size
and nature. Possible additions in-
clude a non—denon1inational chaplain,
religious counseling and methods to
better “coordinate local resources
with students,” McNabb said.

The group in no way wishes to
see a specific religious affiliation for
W&L but instead wants to better un-
derstand what religious needs are not
being met by the University. A spe-
cific focus on minority faiths will be
coordinated to make sure that all reli-
gious denominations are accommo-
dated. 0

Once data from the survey has
been collected, focus groups will be
formed to learn more information
about the student opinion of reli-
gious life at Washington and Lee.
This spring, random groups of stu-
dents will be asked to join these fo-
cus groups.

The group was formed after the
Lilly Foundation donated money in
2002 to initiate “meaningful life
work.”

A committee was formed to explore
various aspects of religious life at W&L.
“The money will be used to facilitate the
discussion of religious life resources
among students, faculty and staff, mostly
the funding of experienced statisticians,
focus group leaders and, should the sur-
vey and focus groups warrant such, a
professional consultant on models for
managing religious life resources in
higher education,” said Professor
Alexandra Brown, chair of the commit-
tee.

Any possible changes at W&L
could be seen as early as next year.

Committee members are fully aware
of the possible consequences of further-
ing religious resources at W&L.

Andy Mendala, undergraduate rep-
resentative of the committee, said, “Per—
sonally, I am ambivalent to the whole
thing. I really think either W&L will com-
promise its secular position as a school
or the chaplain will be a ﬁgurehead.”
Committee members are prepared to in-
vestigate all effects before any changes
will take place.

INFOGRAPHIC BY KATIE HOWELL / 7heRi7zg-tum Phi

Newly elected student officers speak out about their plans

BY CALEY ANDERSON
OPINIONS EDITOR

Campus wide elections for Executive Committee and Stu-
dent Judicial Council officer elections are over, and after some
spirited campaigns, the 2004-05 EC President, Vice President,
and Secretary, as well as the SJ C Chair and Secretary, have been
elected. ‘

Victory in the race for EC President came after a week of close
runoffs. Current member Marie Trimble defeated Thomas Worthy
in the final runoff by six votes. Three rounds of voting for the
office were required. The ﬁeld was narrowed from five, then three
and ﬁnally two candidates.

In both the first and second runoff, Trimble and Worthy were
separated by only five votes.

Trimble attributes her victory to hard work and prior experi-
ence, though she by no means underestimated Worthy. .“I’m
very appreciative of the fact that Thomas and I had a clean, fair
election. I really respect Thomas, and I know that he’ll continue
to contribute to the W&L community in very positive way.”

Trimble said of her policy plans for next year, “I’m looking
forward to improving our policy concerning the recognition of
student organizations. I’d like to see the EC become more in-
volved with campus activities and organizations, and I think im-
proving the recognition process is a great first step. As far as the
Honor System is concerned, I’d like to continue the high stan-
dards that W&L demands.”

The position of Executive Committee Vice President was much

sought after, as well. The race was won by current junior class
representative, Cristin Nunez.

Nunez made a few comments following her victory. “ I
think I won the election because over the past three years
I’ve earned the trust and respect of my peers. I work hard at
what I do, and people know that. I ran a clean and honest
campaign, and my year of experience on the EC has taught
me that talking with people and more importantly, listening
to their concerns, is the best way to secure an election,” she
said.

She also released a platform that detailed plans to revise the
budget system. Among her proposed reforms is a system requir-
ing reports from campus organizations receiving money.

The race for EC Secretary was between undergraduate Jared
Harrison and current member Justin Arnold, a law student.
Arnold secured victory, and has big plans for his tenure next
year. ‘

Declaring “The entire Washington and Lee community
owns a share of the victory,” he went on to say “I am excited
about the things that we can accomplish next year. I would like
to see the Committee involve the Student Body in EC business
more, establish EC by—laws, be more deliberative 011 student
government policy, more vocal on student life issues and more
visible at campus events. I would also like to see the Committee
improve upon the Honor Orientation program and the budget
hearing process, as well as to coordinate a celebration of the
100th anniversary of students assuming the duty of adminis-
tering the Honor System through the Executive Committee of

the Student Body.”

He also complimented his opponent on running a “strong
and respectable” campaign and hoped that Harrison would
continue to contribute to the Washington and Lee commu-
nity.

The rece for Student Judicial Council Chariman. It was be-
tween two current members of the SJ C. Juniors Cameron Lord and
Maggie Hope both fought for votes. Hope ran on a platform of
reform with an understanding of the role of the SJ C.

Hope, who won the election, attributes her victory to get-
ting the message out that she brings a past knowledge of the SJC
that would help her in the office of chair. She conceded that the
election was a worrisome one for her, as she knew Lord would
run a strong race.

Speaking to the major issue of the election, she says, “a big
issue for the SJC right now is the punishment for DUIs and the
discrepancy between what the Board of Trustees wants and what
the SJC has been handing out. I think that issue will be resolved
this year and that the SJC will create a more consistent prece— ,
dence in these cases. I think it’s going to be a productive year
and I look forward to leading the SJ C into it.”

Running on a similar platform of balanced change and con-
sistency was J eb Brooks, ‘O5, who ran unopposed for the office
of SJ C Secretary. Brooks is also the current editor in chief of The
Ring-tum Phi.

Elections for class representatives to the Executive Commit-
tee and Student Judicial Council will be held on Monday, March
15.

 

- v

 

.,..-A 7‘, VA 

MAR I 0200‘!

an RlliGvT-ﬁt Pr-E

PAGE 2

TUESDAY, MARCH 9, 2004

NEWS

E-mail news briefs to phi@wlu.edu

 

Run for the Law scheduled for March 20

The third annual Run for the Law 5K walk and 10K run will be
held on Saturday, March 20. The run is sponsored by PILSA, the
Public Interest Law Students Association. PILSA is a non—proﬁt
group for law students interested in working in the public interest
sector. The proceeds from the run help provide summer fellow-
ships for students working in public service.

“Many of these jobs, such as working in Legal Aid, public
defense, environmental groups, and special organizations are
unpaid, so we provide students with fellowships,” said Brooke
Corby, the president of PILSA. The cost of the run is $20 per
participant and runners or walkers receive a t-shirt. The run is
usually mostly students from the University, but PILSA is encour-
aging residents of Rockbridge County to participate as well. “We
hope to have more than 100 people participate.

Corby said that last year, the group was able were able to give

several fellowships to students. While the Run is PILSA’s main
fundraiser, the group also partners with Domino’s for a fundraiser,
does a magazine sale, and sells Law School apparel. The Run
begins at the Rockbridge Country Public Library and finishes at
the Ruins, and covers the Chessie Trail and the Maury River
Bridge.
The first place female and first place male will receive a pair of
running shoes from Graden’s. In addition, participants will be en-
tered in a rafﬂe for items donated from Lexington businesses,
such as gift certificates.

Interested students can register by contacting Brooke Corby
at corbyb@wlu.edu or picking up a registration form.

Asian art discussion set for Tuesday during lunch

Tuesday, March 9 at noon, James Godfrey, past Maddux
Cowden Curator of Asian Art at the San Antonio Museum of Art,
will meet with students for a discussion and question/answer pe-
riod about careers in the arts. Bring your lunch and join him in the
Elrod Commons 216, the Women’s Resource room.

Christian Historian speaks Thursday

Washington and Lee University will present a lecture by Chris-
tian historian Mark Burrows, “Boundary of the Imagination: Rainer
Maria Rilke and the Poetic Quest for the Unknowable God,” on
Thursday, March 11, at 7:30 p.m. in Room 345 of the Elrod Univer-
sity Commons.

Burrows is a professor of the history of Christianity at Andover
Newton Theological School in Boston, Mass., and regularly
teaches courses on Dante’s Divine Comedy as well as seminars in
medieval mysticism and Reformation theology. An historian of
the medieval and early modern church, he specializes in the spiri-
tual life and mystical traditions of Christianity.

Burrows is the author of Jean Gerson and De Consolatione
Theologiae, and is currently working on a monograph devoted to
Bernard of Clairvaux’s reading of the Song of Songs, “The Tri-
umph of Desire.”

Professor releases book released March 1

Writer Ralph Ellison’s Invisible Man has long been required
reading in English literature and Americanvhistory courses, but a
new book examining the country’s social, cultural, political, eco-
nomic and racial contradictions and how they impacted Ellison’s
work may also soon find its way on college reading lists.

The book, slated for release March 1 to coincide with the 90th
anniversary of Ellison’s birth, is edited by Lucas Morel, an Ellison
expert and associate professor of politics at Washington and Lee
University.

Ralph Ellison and the Raft of Hope: A Political Companion to
Invisible Man was conceived by Morel to help students today
better understand the state of racial relations and social mores in
the United States in the 1950s when Ellison was a struggling New
York writer probing racial attitudes in a still often segregated soci-
ety.

The book, contributed to and edited by Morel, is a collection
of new essays that examine how Ellison’s controversial and land-
mark l952 novel addressed the social, cultural, political, economic
and racial contradictions of America at that time.

Ellison believed it was the contradiction between America’s
“noble ideals and the actualities of our conduct” that inspired the
most profound literature - “the American novel at its best.”

Hidden Hero Patrick Hastings brings srvice

Hastings started the Owings initiative, plans to teach

BY CHRIS LAUDERMAN AND
ERIN JULIUS
ASSISTANT ARTS AND LIFE EDITOR AND NEWS EDITOR

Patrick Hastings, a junior English major from Atlanta, Ga.,

chairs the Awareness Committee of the Nabor’s Service

League. He has incorporated community service into
pledgeship. Hastings worked with Kate Talbert, campus out-
reach co-chair on this project. Together, they met with the
Interfraternity Council and philanthropy chairs to set them up
with community agencies that are their adopted philanthropy.

Hastings commented on how it is sometimes tough to
get projects together and he is very pleased with involve-
ment. It is his hope that this project spreads to a year-long
commitment to an agency, service—based rush events and
mixers.

For the past year, Hastings has served as Secretary for All
Campus Events (ACE) board. He describes that role as diffi-
cult because of the many discussions about how ACE can
better serve the campus community. He addressed the need
for awareness of diversity of educational events. He would
like to see highly visible bi—weekly calendars produced that
bring information about what is going on around campus.

Hastings serves on the steering committee for the Cystic
Fibrosis Charity Ball. It is his goal “to organize an attractive
event.” This year's theme will be completely different from
last year's black—tie ball. Burr Datz’s blue grass band will
play at the cowboy—themed barn dance.

In the fall, Hastings participated in the Moustache Soci-

‘ ety. He said that the society was really inspired by the sup-

port of the University community.

Last summer, Hastings worked in Shakespeare & Com-
pany bookstore in Paris. He was working on a Global Stew-
ardship Grant with Professor Connor on the literary history
of the bookstore. Earnest Hemingway, Gertrude Stein, and
James Joyce were some of the writers that spent lots of time
at Shakespeare & Company.

to Greek life

Hero. Patrick Hastings has worked to make community service a vital
part of Washington and Lee by incorporating it into pledgship.

This summer, Hastings will work in Atlanta with the Reach
for Excellence teaching program for identifying talent among
Mississippi’s public school students. He worked there for
two summers in the past.

Hastings has always wanted to teach. After graduation,
he would like to teach English at a boarding school in the
Northeast and coach soccer.

Bakery opening soon, aims for ‘Blue Sky’

BY KAELA HARMON
STAFF WRITER

Lexington residents will
soon have a new place to go
for many of their baked good
needs.

Located on the corner of
Nelson and Lee Streets, the
owners of Blue Sky Bakery will
be opening their doors within
the next few weeks.

Blue Sky is a family busi-
ness, owned and operated
by Brenda and Mike Gregg
and Mike's mother. The
Greggs moved to Lexington
in October with the goal of
opening a restaurant or bak-
ery.

According to Brenda
Gregg, they were looking for
a small town and they espe-
cially love college towns.
When they got here and saw
that Caroline’s was closing,
they realized that there was
a niche for a bakery and
went forward with that

idea. next two weeks. The soft

CODY GABBARD / THE R1NG—7z/MPH1
Yum, yum. The Blue Sky Bakery will open in a few Weeks, so students should look for the sign to come

down. Owners plan to have an extensive lunch and dessert menu.

indication that they are open bars, key lime bars and

  

 

Originally they had
planned to be open by now
but the construction took
much longer than expected.
Now they arelworking on op-
erating their industrial size
oven and perfecting their reci-
pes.

Brenda Gregg said that
hopefully they will start with
a soft opening within the

opening will be without any
sort of big celebration or an-
nouncement.

The idea is that people just
walk by and see that they’re open
and then later they’ll have the
grand opening.and later they
hope to have a ribbon cutting
grand opening.

For now “when the sign
comes down” will be the best

for business.

When they do open, their
feature item will be fresh
homemade bread but they will
also have a wide rage of past-
ries and sandwiches.

They will have home-‘

made soups daily for their
lunch menu and they will also
be making a variety of des-
sert squares including pecan

cheesecake squares.

In addition to homemade
baked goods, Brenda Gregg
is happy to boast of the com-
fortable, home—like atmo-

sphere that Blue Sky pro-

vides.

“Our goal is to make
people feel like you’re in our
home and enjoy our hospital-
1ty.

In an effort to bring you the highest quality and most balanced
content possible, 772eRing-tum P/ai was forced to delay printing by
one day.

We are sorry for any inconvenience this may have caused our
readers, subscribers and advertisers.

Celebrate Spring Time
Mother’s Day ~ Father’s Day

Brides ~ Graduation
witha

Relaxing Massage
by Kelly Harris

(54o)264oo63
Gift Certiﬁcates, Packages
Speaking Engagements
Certified through VA Board of Nursing
13 "Years Experience

FORALL OF YOUR POST FANCY DRESS NEEDS:

University

7 North Jefferson Street
463-3622

Cleaners  

 

dry cleaning,
laundry, alterationﬂ

Remember to
Vote on Monday, March 15 for
Class Representatives to EC & SJC

students.
Positions available in

- News

- Sports

_ Lzfe

- Business oﬂice

HELP WANTED

The Ring-tum Phi seeks staff writers, business
officers, photographers and all other interested

Anyone interested, please inquire at

phi@wlu.edu
(540) 460-1274

 

In’

R

 

TUESDAY, MARCH 9, 2904

S "lHERH\'G-TUMPHI

TAFF*

)lTORIAL

raised.

IIl6I1tS .

to 18.

Return the drinking age to 18

Fancy Drunk, as it so affectionately
termed by many of the faculty, provides
a particularly potent yearly reminder of
the wrong-headedness of the national
 age of 21.

The chief aim of the 1984 law that

- threatened states with the loss of federal
highway funds if they refused to raise
their minimum drinking age from 18 to
21 was to reduce drunken driving deaths
and injuries. Although the number of
drunken driving incidents has dropped
dramatically among this age group (as it
has among all age groups), many schol-
ars point out that the decline began in
1980, long before the national minimum
drinking age was raised. Moreover, many
other factors, such as airbags, increased
seat belt use, lower speed limits, and safer
automobiles, are believed to have had a
greater impact than a higher drinking age.

As is all too often the case, though,
the govemment’s well-intentioned plan
has turned out to have done more harm
than good. Raising the drinking age has
directly led to a terrible increase in ir-
responsible and harmful drinking among
youth. More students report vomiting
after drinking, missing class, lower
grades and ﬁghting while drinking than
ever did before the drinking age was

Today, rather than having the oppor-
tunity to learn and practice healthy and
measured alcohol consumption in safe,
mentored environments, young people
have their first tastes of the “forbidden
fruit” in unsupervised, unsafe environ-

A better policy would be to increase
punishments for unsafe drinking and law-
breaking while returning the drinking age

Prohibition did not work for the gen-
eral population during the l850’s and
l920’s and has proven to be an unmiti-
gated disaster since 1987. It’s time to
admit our mistake and return the mini-
mal drinking age to 18.

 

no Rim-r‘z;tzr Praia

  

CAIEYANDHGON
OPINIOl\EFDll0R

FMAr;ANnrmort@rmmU

PINIONS

te of the Week

“I thinkAmold’s off to a great start.”

-Ex—Ca]ifomia Governor Gray Davis

Editor in chief
Assistant Editor

News Editor

Opinions Editor

Asst. Opinions Editor
Arts & Life Editor

Asst. Arts & Life Editor
Photography Editor
Asst. Sports Editors

Production Assistants

Copy Editors

Business Manager
Asst. Business Mgr.
Circulation Director
Asst. Cireulation Dir
Distribution Din

  

1. =  "="v’

Jeb Brooks

Kyle Wass

Erin Julius

Caley Anderson
Anne Finley

Megan Morgan
Chris Lauderman
Cody Gabbard

John Hyland

Chad Kiewiet de Jonge
Emily Edwards

Kelly Jo Larsen
Alexa Moutevalis
Kate Zawyrucha
Sarah Beth Campbell
Vanessa Arness
Aubrey Miner

Paul Seifert
David Seifert
Stuart Presnell
Rob Rain
Thomas Worthy

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee Univer-
sity, Lexington, Vrrginia. The Ring-tum Phi is a member of
The Publications Board, but is otherwise independent

The Ring—tum Phi welcomes all responsible sub-
missions and letters. All submissions must be e-mailed
to phi@wlu.edu or in the University Center mailbox by
5 p.m. Friday to appear in the following week’s edition.
The Ring-tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions
for content and length. Letters and columns do not
necessarily reflect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi
Editorial Board. Advertising does not reflect the opin-
ions of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper
observes current court deﬁnitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
University Commons Room. 341
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Telephone: (540) 458-4060
Fax: (540) 458-4059
Email: phi@wlu.edu
Subscription rate $40

PAGE 3

Kerry: evolving candidate, not wishy washy

 

PHOTO COURTESY OF senalegav

THE NEXT PRESIDENT? Seen here working in the Senate, John Kerry may be the best choice for the nation in the 2004 election, despite the efforts of Bush’s campaign.

Ed Gillespie and Karl Rove have a plan for
this election. John Kerry flip—flops on issues,
John Kerry is unprincipled, and the like. He was
historically against capital punishment, but
then came out in favor of it for convicted ter-
rorists. He voted for No Child Left Behind but
criticizes Mr. Bush for that too. He authorized
the use of force in Iraq but criticizes the way
the President has handled it. Mr. Bush, on the
other hand, is a steady, prin-
cipled, unwavering leader, the
type of man .most needed in un-
certain times like these.

That’s one way to look at it.
Here’s another: John Kerry is an astute man
who grasps the difficulties and complexity of
any given issue, and is willing to incorporate
new information into his ideas; therewith, his
ideas can change. He is an intellectual.

The capital punishment issue came up long
before this presidential election; in a reelec-
tion bid in 1996 he said he was not for capital
punishment for terrorists. Why? Because Kerry
was worried that if the United States had a
standing policy of capital punishment, other
nations would be discouraged from extraditing
terrorism suspects to the United States. He
feels that since September 11"‘, nations are
more ready to extradite suspects, and there-
fore the death penalty is not the deterrent it
once was. His main concern in both cases was
ensuring the greatest probability that other
nations would cooperate in investigations.

John Kerry voted for No Child Left Behind
after George Bush promised billions in educa-
tion funding in his State of the Union Address,
and promoted such wording in the bill as it worked
its way through Congress. John Kerry’s only mis-
take in this matter was trusting George Bush’s word.
When the chips fell and it came time to actually
appropriate funds in his budget, George Bush cut 6
billion dollars from his own education bill. Shame
on John Kerry for trusting George Bush!

 - ( fﬁFEE?T
» g GABE CHAI_>MAN ‘O6

Now Iraq. Essentially, Congress told the Presi-
dent: we trust you to neutralize what you have char-
acterized as an immediate and grave danger to the
United States. The President made the same case
to Congress that he made to the American people.
Now we know how exactly all this came about: ev-
ery shaky intelligence report was exaggerated to
the greatest possible degree, the White House set
up a special office in the Pentagon, whose sole
purpose was to assemble infor-
mation that would advance their
case, without regard to the
strength of the information. In-
telligence officers who came to
them with information contradicting their asser-
tions were told that their information wasn’t strong
enough and they needed to come back with more.

Don’t tell me, “Well, who cares? The world is
better off without Saddam Hussein.” What we
should care about is the, fact that this Administra-
tion made a conscious effort to manipulate infor-
mation to make a sensationalist case for war. Just
because we and our representatives bought it,
doesn’t mean that they were wrong. It means that
they put too much faith and credit in an ends-
justiﬁes-the-means administration. Men like John
Kerry won’t make that mistake again.

George Bush’s “with us or against us”
worldview is too simplistic for the world of today.
Paul O’Neill’s book, The Price of Loyalty, makes
two things clear: from the first day, this Adminis-
tration had two intentions: (l) to cut taxes, and (2)
to invade Iraq. All of the intervening events: Sep-
tember 11”‘, the recession, were just convenient
excuses to push an agenda that they intended
from the first. Consider this: our economy has been

out of recession for several quarters, but Bush .

continues to deficit—spend tremendously. These
tax cuts were not a salve meant to pull us out of
recession; if they were, he would have brought the
deficit under control as we pulled out of recession.

To say that George Bush’s policies are in-
novative would be to say that they adapt to

changing conditions. If that’s so, why hasn’t
he changed the undertaxing and overspend-
ing that is causing our deficit? The deficit is
really just a “future tax”: a tax on people like
you and me. We’re going to be paying back
the I.O.U’s Bush has taken out, long after he’s
retired comfortably.

I don’t like watching George Bush talk. It
makes me realize that he doesn’t understand
the nuances of a situation. Like when he tells
us that the economic growth (in terms of GDP)
the nation is experiencing will invariably lead
to-new jobs. There is a new dynamic in our
economy, one that George Bush does not un-
derstand. We have the
outsourcing of jobs overseas, and the hiring
of temporary workers who can be fired and
hired to match demand exactly from month to
month. Executives are concerned right now
with pushing up stock prices, and to do this
they are widening profit margins by squeez-
ing maximum productivity out of their existing
labor forces. The Bureau of Economic Analy-
sis has found that the profit share of corpo-
rate income as increased at the expense of
labor’s share. This shouldn’t be surprising,
considering who can afford millions of shares
of stock.

George doesn’t understand our new
economy and doesn’t understand America’s
place in the world. I want somebody who has
doubted the rectitude of America’s political
and cultural domination. I want somebody to
produce an Attorney General who will nail
Kenneth Lay’s ass to the wall. I want some-
body to have the courage to tell Americans
that we can’t sustain your level of consump-
tion. You can’t drive gargantuan SUVs forever.
Not even for much longer. I want someone to
say that the Arctic National Wildlife Refuge is
worth more to the world than $1.75 gasoline
for your Hummer H2. John Kerry will do all
these things, and we’ll be stronger for it.

Martha guilty, but bigger ﬁsh remain for federal government

  
    

simultaneous ~

This past week, a federal jury found Martha Stewart guilty of
conspiracy, two separate counts of making false statements, and ob-
struction ofjustice. This decision marks the highest—profile individual
that has been convicted in the recent government crackdown on cor-
rupted business practices. Martha Stewart, who’s been the target of
focused media coverage over the past few months as a result of her
trial, has certainly been served justice, but I find it dismaying that the
Federal government has been unable to secure the convictions of the
bigger criminals in the world of white collar corruption.

What about the former Tyco executives, who still
stand accused of Grand Larceny? What about MCI
Worldcom? Or Merrill Lynch? Or what about the
one that started it all— Enron? Kenneth Lay, ex—CEO
of Enron, walks around even today as a free man.
The fact is, ladies and gentlemen, that the majority of these 21st cen-
tury robber barons remain unpunished. Martha Stewart, who is guilty,
of course, was nevertheless more than likely targeted by the govern-
ment because of her celebrity status (Stewart, who will likely serve
prison time, still faces a civil suit from the Securities and Exchange
Commission for a charge of insider trading). Yet, one instance of
insider trading, as well as the lies that came with it, are hardly the
greatest evil that has been wrought in corporate America in recent
history.

The Department of Justice needs to ramp up the efforts against
these financial miscreants. All Martha Stewart’s crime did was give
her an unfair advantage over other investors, whereas I think most
people believe that Kenneth Lay directly stole millions of dollars from
the people in the business world who trusted him most. Taking a tip

    

3' CALEY AND1~:Rs0r@§_

from a buddy in the company is one thing, creating a deliberate scheme
to rob your investors of (a LOT of) their hard-earned cash that results
in an economic disaster, unemployment without compensation for your
employees, and general financial chaos is another.

In politics, appearence is reality, and the fact that Kenneth Lay,
especially, has not been even charged with anything makes the Bush
administration look very bad, especially in an election year. I don’t
actually think that Lay has earned himself propriety with his generous
donations to the Bush campaigns, but it’s critical that the President

not allow that to be the appearence, especially when Lay,

 as well as most of his senior executives, are more than

likely extremely guilty.

I’m sure we all remember Enron— jobs lost, faith in
corporate America was tanked, women who worked for
Enron felt forced to pose for Playboy since all they had as job in-
surance was now—worthless Enron stock. The scary thing is that
this story has been repeated (albeit with less scandal similar to the
Playboy incident) several times over again, with, as mentioned be-
fore, Tyco, MCI Worldcom Merrill Lynch, and so forth.

To be sure, Martha’s crimes are not to be scoffed at. Besides
the obvious consequences, Martha Stewart Living, while not di-
rectly involved in the Imclone scandal that has now ensnared its
Chief Creative Officer, will likely see its own value plunge, since
Stewart’s image of domestic perfection is so closely linked to her
company. .

Yet we should not forget that there are still criminals out there,
some who have gone unprosecuted, and some who are still out there,
as yet successful at hiding their thievery from the law.

 

    

PAGE 4

’l§~iF.RN}’llldi’rl

  

TUESDAY, MARCH 9, 2004

INIONS

Forget Punxsutawney Phil, hold your leaders accountable

Imminent changes should force students to realize that fate of University rests in student government elections

Campus was sated with “political” cam-
paigning this week. Brightly-colored posters and
catchy slogans littered every doorway and bul-
letin board around campus. Candidates were all
smiles. Promises were made. Yet was this elec-
tion any more serious than the stereotypical stu-
dent council popularity contests held at most
schools?

After one election and two run—offs, one
of the “highest voter turnouts in
the history of Washington and
Lee” elected Executive Commit-
tee and Student Judicial Council
officers last week. Individual
class representatives will be chosen next

. Monday. I’m sure these students too will wear

their suits and bowties around campus, tack
up countless posters around our fair grounds,
and work every connection that they have in
order to be elected.

I ask the students of Washington and Lee—
the candidates, voters and those already
elected—to step back for a minute to think be-
fore they move into this second stage of the elec_—
tion. What is it that this campus really wants?
What is it that this campus really needs? Who
are the leaders that can provide these wants and
needs?

In a recent editorial by one of our neighbor
school’s newspaper columnists, their student
council election was compared to Groundhog
Day. Preston Lloyd wrote in University of
Virginia’s The Cavalier Daily, “To many stu-
dents, Student Council elections are like
Groundhog Day, where the entire nation focuses
the media spotlight—even if ever so brieﬂy—
on a rodent in a small Pennsylvania town in

Letters to the Editor

Kim/an’s article is itself more
offensive than “Monologues”

Dear Editor,

I would like to know the rationale for reprint-
ing Brett Kirwan’s two-year—old editorial on a pre-
vious production of “The Vagina Monologues.”

It was, after all, inﬂamed and inaccurate the first
time. It would not be particularly difﬁcult to con-
struct an intelligent critique of Eve Ensler’s play-
any student in English or Women’s Studies could
give Mr. Kirwan helpful advice. While I’m not a fan
of the work, though, I deeply admire the students
who staged it. As the editorial acknowledges, the
original production raised money for Project Hori-
zon; the recent version raised impressive sums for
multiple charities. Furthermore, through the “Mono-
logues,” undergraduates and law students collabo-
rated to provoke conversation about sexuality and
violence-—I’m grateful for their commitment. They
deserve better than this creaky old complaint.

I can suggest a fresh topic, if Mr. Kirwan has the
energy. His opinion piece quaintly protests “vulgar
exhibitionism” and the “rriiddle-school locker room”
mentality he found in the play. What does he think of
carnpusnoticetitles suchas“'I'l'I'l’1ES!!!!!!!!!l!!l!!!!!,
Tl'ITIES!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!” so conveniently quoted on
the same page as his reprinted column?

Sincerely, A
Lesley Wheeler, Associate Professor of English

Dear Editor,

Two years ago Mr. Kirwan’s editorial piece, “
‘Monologues’ are vulgar concoction with political
purpose,” angered me because of its blatant and
frequent disregard for the facts of the play. Many
people discouraged me from responding because,
they argued, everybody knows Mr. Kirwan writes
from an extremely conservative viewpoint and in-
tentionally incites angry responses. This made
sense and fearful of being labeled a “femi-nazi,” I
kept my mouth shut but did not forget the piece.
Today I was shocked and appalled to see this ar-
ticle appear once again in the Ring-tum Phi.

Admittedly, Mr. Kirwan has a right to his opin-
ion but the abundant factual errors indicate irre-
sponsible journalism and beg the reader to ques-
tion if the author even saw the play when it was
performed here two years ago. For example, in the
first monologue “Hair” the speaker is not “driven
mad by [her husband’s] request” to shave her pu-
bic hair as Mr. Kirwan attests. Her choice to shave
her pubic hair was a compromise in her relation-
ship. She realizes that she does not like it and stops
the practice. The couple pursues marriage coun-
seling because of a desire to work through their
problems. This does not suggest a lack of sanity.
Later, in an attack on another one of the mono-
logues ‘”Ihe Flood”, Mr. Kirwan states, “Of course,
her male companion was to blame for her years of

SENIORMOMENT
KATIE]. HovELL ‘O4

order to symbolically predict the length of the
season. Likewise, at the University, students
are reminded that not only does [student gov-
ernment] exist, but that the leadership and
agenda of that organization is so important that
it demands the attention of students for a week
or more.”

W&L’s student government elections are
nearly identical to the University of Virginia sce-
nario described above. Voters
are one of three types: those
who wander past the voting
booth between classes and
choose the candidates with

the most name recognition, those whose room— ,

mate or fraternity brother is running and there-
fore are obligated to show up at the polling
place, and those who are genuinely interested
in the future of campus and believe that the
student leadership will greatly affect that fu-
ture, with the least amount of voters belonging
to this last group. I wonder, however, why this
is the case.

W&L has gone through some recogniz-
able changes in the past four years that I have
been a student here. A strict alcohol and drug
policy now stands in place of football game
“tailgates.” Limited beer can be “swiped
home” in the new Commons—center of Uni-
versity life—where free alcohol and drinking
games in the fraternity houses once ﬂowed
like water. The fate of Spring Term has come
into question not once, but twice. Two frater-
nities have been suspended. One has been
reinstated. Countless other changes have also
dramatically affected campus during the past
few years.

Students cannot think that the student lead-
ers of this campus do not play an important role in
these campus—altering decisions and events. Stu-
dent leadership played a role in every single one
of the events listed above. Most recently, current
Executive Committee President Helen Hughes
worked tirelessly along-
side faculty, adrriinistra—
tion and board members
to determine the fate of
the student-beloved
Spring Term. Other stu-
dent leaders have
worked just as hard as
she to see that the
changes affecting
W&L are not only
good for the board and
administration but also
for the lifeblood of the
University—the stu-
dents.

In saying all this, I
challenge the students
of Washington and Lee
to think before they vote
next week. Class repre-
sentatives to the student
government bodies on
campus are the people who will represent you to
the administration and faculty when more huge carn-
pus—changing events plague Lexington. Just be-
cause someone has name—recognition doesn’t mean
that they will make the best decisions when it comes
to the future of your institution.

These comments are not to say that the re-
cently elected EC and SJC ofﬁcers are off the hook,

“To many students, Student Council
elections are like Groundhog Day, Where
the entire nation focuses the media
spotlight—even if ever so briefly—on a
rodent in a small Pennsylvania town in
order to symbolically predict the length of
the season. Likewise, at the University,
students are reminded that not only does
[student government] exist, but that the
leadership and agenda of that organization
is so important that it demands the
attention of students for a week or more.”
Preston Lloyd
TI-IE CAVALIER DAILY

however. They all ran on detailed platforms, whether
the voters took the time to learn of these or not.
Hold these students accountable. If they promised
you funding to political and religious organizations
in the future, make sure that these organizations
receive funding during the next budget allocation.
If they promised you
that they would make
DUI convictions con-
sistent with University
and board policy, make
sure they deliver. If they
promised that the EC
members will be more
active in campus activi-
ties during the next year,
make sure that they at-
tend these meetings and
participate in activities.
And if they don’t, com-
plain. Ultimately, they
are held accountable to
you. Write letters to the
editors of the campus
newspapers. Email or call
these officers individu-
ally. They will listen to
you. You chose them.

While student gov-
ernment elections are often a hot lunch—table con-
versation for a week or so, who will really be
talking about what Marie Trimble plans to do as
EC president or Justin Arnold as EC secretary in
a month? Why is this the case? Students, you
should care what these people are doing. They
are the future of your school. They are your rep-
resentatives.

pain” when in actuality the woman’s fear of her
own body’s unpredictability was at fault. He even
states that The Vagina Monologues condones les-
bian rape, a statement that is utterly false. The play
works throughout to raise awareness of all sorts of
violence against women, from battery to rape. Al-
though the woman’s first sexual experience is at a
young age in “The Little Coochie Snoocher that
Could,” there is no indication that it was undesired.
In addition to these errors, Mr. Kirwan ignores the
monologues that affirm men’s roles in women’s lives,
such as “Because He Liked to Look at it,” and rriis—
represents the play as “male-bashing.”

The play does not bash men. It praises women.
There is a difference. Mr. Kirwan criticizes the play
for degrading Valentine’s Day, “the only holiday dedi-
cated to true romance between a man and a woman,”
since the production occurs near that day and raises
awareness about violence against women by calling
it V-day. Sexual assault, however, is not just an issue
women face. Men have mothers, sisters, daughters,
lovers, and female friends. It is a fact that one out of
every four women is assaulted during her lifetime.
One hopes that both men and women can care about
this issue even when celebrating Valentine’s Day.

Sincerely,
Jennifer Backe, ‘O4

Hit and run incident

provides opportunity for reﬂection

Dear Editor,

I’m not a sentimental person and I don’t make a
point of marking painful anniversaries, but it seems
like every March there is something to remind me. A
couple of years ago it was a late March snow, which
reminded me of the snow that fell on the day of
Ashley’s funeral in March of 1989. This year, it is the
leprechaun trap my oldest son is building for a ﬁrst—
grade class project. A day or two after Ashley was
killed, we who lived on her ﬂoor in Gilliam dormitory
awoke to little green leprechaun footprints running
every which way in a sweet attempt by a fellow fresh-
man to bring a smile amidst all the horror.

This March it has been 15 years since freshman
Ashley Scarborough was stiuck down and killed in a
hit—and-run accident as she walked alone on Wash-
ington Street in the wee hours of a Wednesday party
night. The driver turned out to be a fellow W&L
student, Blake Comer, who kept this incredible atroc-
ity secret for many months before being caught.

Ashley was a wonderful girl. You would have liked
her. You would have noticed her for her red hair, quick
wit, and inclusive, accepting approach to those around
her. Guys, you would probably have had a crush on her;
she was all Southern sweetness with a spark and inner
strength that would have made you look twice. ladies,
you would have admired her style and might have wanted
to be her friend. . She would have responded to you
wannly and sincerely, with no hint of arrogance.

There are dozens of us scattered across the coun-

try (and even world) who remember this and so much
more about Ashley. She had four extremely close
friends who she was making plans to live with the
following year, and countless other friends (like me)
who could tell you story after story of how she made
those around her smile. She had a great boyfriend
who was a pre—med student and top swirnmer/water
polo player. She was a lot like you, and she died at 19
years old, leaving a life full of promises not kept.

Her death affected dozens of lives greatly and the
whole community to some extent. But, of course, none
were affected as much as her family. Now, 15 years later
and a parent myself, I feel physically ill at the thought
of the phone call our Dean of Freshmen had to make to
her parents that horrible morning. Ashley was the sec-
ond daughter they lost in a two—year period. The sec-
ond phone call with the words death, daughter, car, and
alcohol, the second funeral, the second time they had
to ﬁnd the strength to go on living. Can you imagine
dealing with that kind of pain?

Why am I telling you all this? I’m not your par-
ent or your friend, but I care about the choices you
make. I was blessed to have walked where you walked
and gone on to a wonderful full life juggling marriage,
parenting, writing/editing, and volunteer work in
school and at church. It is the kind of life you wouldn’t
know to aspire to at the age of 18, but you feel incred-
ibly grateful and blessed to have at the age of 33. My
friend Ashley didn’t get to pursue that life, and that
makes me incredibly sad and angry, even now. Will
you think of her before you make choices that could
have consequences that echo across the years and
ripple through all the people around you in life—chang—
ing, heart-wrenching ways? Will you think of Blake
Comer, who got behind the wheel of a car after drink-
ing and then made a cowardly decision that I’m sure
haunts him every day of his life‘? Will you think of
Ashley’s parents and her brother, John? Will you
think of Ashley’s boyfriend, who got the news while
at the national swimming championships? Will you
think of your friends and the unbelievable effect trag-
edy has on a young person who becomes an adult
from that day forward? Will you think about all the
possible consequences of drinking irresponsibly and
decide now that you will not get behind the wheel of
a car or put yourself in any other perilous situation
that could end in tragedy?

I can tell you, the future is pretty wonderful.
You don’t want to miss it...

Sincerely,
Marcy (Brown) Rand
’92

Student elections need
more content, time for campaigning

Dear Editor,

Recently, students voted in elections for stu-
dent government ofﬁcers. While I am sure that we
have selected a group of honest, qualiﬁed people
to fill our most important governmental positions, I

have some serious problems with the election pro-
cess in general.W&L students are forced to make
decisions about who will represent them with vir-
tually no information about the candidates—at
least, virtually none that counts. The campus is
covered with signs, cards, and stickers that make
ambiguous promises about candidates’ “honor” or
“integrity”, but in a community that is built around
those two concepts, shouldn’t we assume that all
of the candidates can offer those qualities? They’re
the ONLY promises out there. If most or all of the
candidates for a given ofﬁce simply pledge to rep-
resent us as best they can, uphold honor, or “insert
vague platitude here”, then what are we, the vot-
ers, to use to distinguish the differences between
them? Many students vote for those candidates
whom they have had classes with or with whom
they have shaken hands eighteen times outside
the d—hall if they don’t feel that they really know
any of the candidates. I realize that we have a small
school and that we are closely knit, but students
can’t be expected to know everyone on the ballot.

However, the complete lack of content in our elec-
tions is not really the fault of the candidates. In fact, one
candidate, Phil Walotsky, made great efforts to articulate
things that he wanted to get accomplished. In general,
though, our campaign system doesn’t provide a forum
for candidates to express their views. There are no de-
bates, no speeches, and no proﬁles or platforms (even
small ones) that are consistently presented in the pa-
pers. One of the reasons that candidates don’t present
details about their positions is because they don’t really
have open access to a medium that is suitable for such
communication. Signs have to be concise enough to be
absorbed with a cursory glance, e—mails are deleted (they
are pretty annoying) as ﬁequently as they are read, and
it’s awkward enough for candidates to introduce them-
selves in the commons, let alone talk about school policy.

'Ihereareafewthingsthatcouldbedonetoim-
provethisprocess. Firstofall,thereshouldbeanorga-
nized debate and/or speeches given a week or so before
the elections. I know, I know. . .1 have heard the argu-
ment before that people will not attend. So? Even if only
a few people would attend such events, the Phi and the
Trident could do articles that at least sum up some of
what was said. In addition, sor_ne sort of public event
would go a long way to making sine that EC candidates
can handle their obligations in meetings well. Both pa-
pers should at least run an article with small statements
from each candidate. Anything is better than nothing.

The above reforms aren’t much to ask. These
policies are even present in many high school elec-
tions. But unlike high school leaders, members of the
EC, SJC, etc. have substantial power. They adminis-
ter our honor system, distribute substantial sums of
money, make policy changes, and represent us to the
administration. We must employ a process that helps
voters to make more informed decisions and reﬂects
the importance of our student govenirnent.

Sincerely,
Sam Wilmoth, ‘O7

gratis

Gt-tiara Lavmerrtzs RANGQL
Pn.ArEsiAr.sxA~oEa METHQIB

  

309 N. l\®_‘L1’1 St.

  
 

540«461~3447

Lexington, VA 24450

Write opinions for the Phi!

The'Ring-tum Phi is currently seeking to hire new opinions writers!
If you’re interested in applying for an Op/Ed position, please e-mail
phi @ wlu.edu, or e-mail the Opinions Editor at andersonc @ wlu.edu.

<l> <l>

<l>

 

  

JG-lNI‘IYlAl\D
AETTANTSEORTSFDTTOR

mm m

TUESDAY, MARCH 9, 2004

BTERBIG-TUTEPEE

PORTS

PAGE 5

Baseball wins first two ODAC games in doubleheader

BY JOHN HYI.AND
ASSITANT sPORTs EDITOR

The W&L baseball team recovered from a
tough loss on Friday afternoon to Mary Washing-
ton by starting their ODAC season on the right
track, winning two decisive games against Emory
and Henry on Saturday in a doubleheader. The
team’s record stands at 8-3, 2-0 ODAC.

In Friday’s game, Mary Washington, the 23rd
ranked team in the country, came out showing why
they are nationally ranked and hold a 9-1 record.
The Eagles jumped out to a 6-0 lead after ﬁve in-
nings while their starting pitcher, a ﬂame throwing
lefty, seemed unhittable through the first four in-
nings, not allowing a hit. The Eagles held a 7-1
advantage in the sixth when the Generals got back
in the game with freshman rightﬁelder Richard
Garland’s two run homer. W&L manufactured
two more runs in the seventh to cut the lead to 7-5.
In the eighth, the Generals had runners at second
and third with two cuts, but the inning ended when
sophonire second baseman Scott Gosselink hit a
long ﬂy ball to right ﬁeld and the Generals fell 7-5.

The comeback was made possible by frehman
lefthander Johnson Branlow who replaced starter
Mike Wert and pitched four solid innigs of relief,
only allowing one run Wert suffered his first loss
of the season and his record fell to 2-1. Sophomore
centerﬁelder Dave MacKenzie and freshman des-
ignated hitter David Miller each added a pair of hits
for the Generals.

In the first game on Saturday, the Generals sent
their ace, Peter Dean, to the hill. With a win, Dean
would become the Generals all—tirne leader in career
wins. The record was never really in doubt. Dean
pitched brilliantly, going the full seven innings, not
allowing a run on ﬁve hits and striking out six, to

him plenty of support, scoring a
run in each of the first five in-
nings en route to a 7-0 win.
Gosselink went 3 for 3 with two
runs scored and junior Zach
Bausch, the designated hitter for
the game, went 3 for 4 with two

« RBIs. Garland, MacKenzie and

sophomore first baseman Taylor
McConnell all contributed a pair
of hits.

In the nightcap, the Gener-
als, once again did not give the
Wasps much of a chance. Senior
leftfielder Bryan Mulhem and
Bausch hit back to back homers
in the first as part of a ﬁve run
inning. It was more than enough
run support that senior
righthander Dan Kagey would
need. Neverthless, the Generals
scored another run in the sec-
ond and eight more in the fourth
to blow open the game. The final
was 16-3, with W&L amasssing
21 hits. Many Generals contrib-
uted to the offensive onslaught.
After his homer, Bausch hit three
doubles, including two in the
fourth alone and finished the
game 4 for 4 with three runs
scored and three RBIs. Mulhem
ﬁnished 2 for 5 with two runs
scored and five RBIs. Garland
went 3 for 4 with two runs scored
and two RBIs. MacKenzie,
Gosselink, McConnell and fresh-

man third baseman, Clayton Edwatrds, all contrib-

I

 LOIIRTESY SPORTS INFORMATION

ALL TIME IEADER. Senior Peter Dean became V/8£L’s all time win leader
with his 24th career win in a game against Emory 85 Henry.

nings and striking out 11. With the pair of losses,

uted multi-hit games. Kagey improved his record the Wasps fell to 0-8, 0-2 ODAC. The Generals next

 

earn his fourth win of the season. His offense gave

A-Rod will stay at third

BY JOHN HYLAND
ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITOR

Now that Spring Training is
underway, the talk in baseball
continues to be the Yankees ac-
quisition of Alex Rodriruez, argu-
ably the best player in baseball
an'd...hi.s. unpt¢.<:<>?itjec.i.irn.0Y¢’.. ,.
fromjshorstop to  base.

There are a number of
reasons why barring
unforseen circumstances, A-
Rod will be the Yankees third
baseman for years to come.
First of all, he agreed to come
to the Yankess with the ex-
plicit understanding that he
would play third base and
Derek Jeter would play short-
stop. A-Rod has gone out of
his way to make the change a
non-issue, having repeadetly
reiterated in interviews that
this is Jeter’s team, he is the
team’s shortstop and should
remain at shortstop and has
made it clear that if their roles were
reversed and Jeter was coming
to Texas, he would expect to stay
at his position. A-Rod is right,
J eter has been the centerpiece of
the Yankees for almost a decade,
which has included four champi-
onships and six American League
Pennants. There is no reason for
that to change.

More importantly than
that, A-Rod’s physical skills
make him much more conducive
to playing third base than Jeter.
The main criticism of J eter’s de-
fense over the years has been his
poor reaction to the ball coming
off the bat. This is a weakness
that would be exploited even
more at third base where he would
have to play even closer to the
batter. A-Rod’s reaction is much

better than Jeter’s. That skill
combined with his overall good
glove and strong throwing arm
(he won a gold glove last year)
should makeit an easy transi-
tion for him. The same transi-

tion was fairly easy for Cal

 

Ripken, Jr., A-Rod’s boyhood
idol and a player with simillar
physical skills and body type. A-
Rod might be the best shortstop
in baseball, but Jeter is very solid,
having won four championships
at the position. A-Rod seems de-
termined to become the garne’s
best third baseman, just as he
was able to do at shortstop.

It would be unprecedented
for a player to switch positions
in his prime and become the
game’s best at both positions,
which I think is a motivating fac-
tor for A-Rod to succeed. The
Yankees will be putting out their
best defense with A-Rod at third
and J eter at short. Given A-Rod
’s skills and professionalism, I do
not foresee this to be a problem
and as a lifelong Yankees fan, I
am very excited about the up-
coming year.

to 2-0 on the year after pitching seven shutout in-

face Piedmont at home on Wednesday.

A-Rod will be studying abroad

BY RYAN GRITTER
ASSISTANT SPORTS EDTTOR

Alex Rodriguez is essentially study-
ing abroad. He has moved from his com-
fortable home at shortstop to immerse
himself in the foreign culture that is third
base. However, just like a student, he
will return to his home. Third base is not
the new permanent position of this fu-
ture Hall of Famer. There are simply way
too many events that could cause him to
move back, and surely at least one will
take place.

While no one can deny that the ad-
dition of A-Rod to an already impressive
lineup gives the Yankees an enormous
boost come playoff time, high expecta-
tions can lead to a great deal of pressure.
The Yankees have been without a World
Series win for three years now, and fans,
not to mention the ever looming Darth
Vader....sorry, I mean George
Steinbrenner, have grown impatient.
When the first losing skid comes along,
tensions in the clubhouse and in the
front ofﬁce will be almost unbearable.
With the enormous egos in that club-
house, Gary Sheffield in particular, whole-
some relations carmot be ensured. We
have all heard about A-Rod’s rocky
friendship with Derek J eter, and while that
will receive much of the media attention,
there are plenty of large ego’s that could
potentially clash with the superstar. At
some point, management as well as the
players must choose a leader.

The leadership role on the Yankees
has been Jeter’s since 1996 and has
spawned 4 World Series Championships,
as well as numerous commercials. If
Steinbrenner is forced to decide who his
leader is going to be, he will ﬁnd it in-
credibly difﬁcult to choose anyone but
Jeter, who has become the face of the
Yankees. The role certainly will not be
ﬁlled by Giambi, who is aging and injury
prone, or Shefﬁeld, who is a clubhouse
cancer. A-Rod has never been in a lead-

ership role for a winning team (the 1996
Mariners were led by Ken Griffey Jr.), and
has not shown leadership qualities. A
leader must be able to call teammates out
and inspire them a la Ray Lewis. A-Rod is
not that type of leader, he is quiet and ea-
ger to please all; he doesn’t seem to be
the type to light a fire_under,a fellow
player’s <ahem>. Ifthe Yankees don’t win
the World Series, it will be very tempting
to GM Brian Cashman to deal the MVP
inﬁelder.

The ﬁnal reason that A-Rod will not
stay at third is simply because he is a gold
glove shortstop. He has accepted this
move willingly only because he thinks he
can win a World Series. As soon as some-
thing goes wrong, whether or not he pub-
licly announces it, he will be longing to be
a shortstop. He may get the opportunity,
as Jeter has shown a propensity for get-
ting injured while A-Rod held one of the
longest consecutive games played streaks
in the steroid era.

The many ways that A-Rod could ﬁnd
himself back at the shortstop position all
could be thwarted by a certain combina-
tion of events. All that would have to hap-
pen is that J eter and A-Rod would have to
stay healthy, the team would have to have
almost no clashing of egos in the club-
house, a fantastic season ending in a
World Series win, and a successful sea-
son for Derek J eter at shortstop. Unfortu-
nately, the odds of all of these things fall-
ing into place just aren’t realistic. They
could both feasibly stay healthy, they
could both have ﬁne seasons, Shefﬁeld
could shut up, but the World Series win
on top of that might cause the
apocalypse. . .and they no longer have the
pitching to do so. Here’s a little word of
advice for GM Brian Cashman, move J eter
to second, A-Rod back to short, and go
strong after Eric Chavez of the A’s for third.
An inﬁeld like that would give any man-
ager a tingly feeling as he made out the
lineup card each night.

Dean becomes
W&L all time win
leader with 24th win

BY KIM GUNST
sTAFi=wR1TER '

Every time Peter Dean takes the mound, he
expects to win. However, the optimistic baseball
captain isn ’t just winning games——he’s also break-
ing records. Dean saw his 24th career win in
Saturday’s doubleheader against Emory & Henry,
becoming the General’s all—time win leader.

“I was fortunate to win six games my freshman
year,” Dean said. “At that time, I remember looking
at the record and thinking that I was on pace to
break it, but never in my wildest dreams did I be-
lieve that I could.”

Even though Dean knew he could break the
record after tying it last Sunday, he says it hasn’t
affected his approach. The team’s combination of
strong pitchers and good hitters are what Dean
believes take the pressure off of him.

“The win record is not just my record,” Dean
said. “It is directly correlated with how well the
tearn_ has played. The pitcher can’t win any games
if the batters don’t score any runs.”

Despite what Dean calls “lucky timing,” he also
owes his success on the baseball ﬁeld to a deci-
sion he made his junior year of high school. Al-
though Dean started
playing Little League

when he was just nine, 6‘ '
he chose to instead AtthattHne’I
playh tgrilriii onlfe lhe remember
reac e ig sc oo. _
After the offen-  at the
sive coordinator for his
football team per- rCCOrd and
suaded him to play - -
baseball, Dean de- 
cided it was time for a
change. He played was on pace to
baseball for the next breakigbut
{W0 YCaI$.- . . . , .
Dean actually ﬂevefmmy

came to W&L to play
football, but once
again decided to give
baseball a shot. He
worked hard to im-
prove his freshman
year—a time, he says,
that he first realized he
might be able to win a
few games for the Generals.

Four years later, Dean is a three-tirne letter win-
ner and team captain who has been named a Divi-
sion III “Player to Watch” by Collegiate Baseball
News. And just last season, he earned Academic
All-American honors.

But Dean’s most memorable baseball moment
was defeating Virginia Wesleyan last year, making
the team the conference leader. He says the entire
conference tournament was an experience he'll
never forget.

“We played well as a team,” Dean recalled.
“Every game was exciting. We were close to win-
ning it all.”

With no weak spots in the ﬁeld or in the lineup,
Dean foresees an even better season than last. He
says he is confident that every member of the team
can play well, rather than just having a select core
group of stronger players.

Dean is looking forward to his last baseball
season at W&L, but says it doesn’t necessarily
have to be the end. Even though he has already
been accepted to medical school at the University
of Virginia, he says he is going to leave his options
open.

“If somebody gives me the opportunity to play
baseball at the next level, that is an opportunity I
couldn’t pass up,” Dean said. “I can always go to
medical school. I try not to think of next year. I am
just concerned with helping the team win this year.”

wildest dreams
did I believe that
I could.”

PETER DEAN

Tuesday, March 9

Wednesday, March 10

Thursday, March 11

Friday, March 12

THIS WEEK’ s SCHEDULE

Saturday, March 13

Sunday, March 14

0 Open

0 W Tennis vs.
Bridgewater, at Roanoke-
-4:00

0 Baseball vs. Piedmont--
3:00

0W Lax vs. Sweet Briar--
4:00

0 Open

0 W Tennis vs. Washing-
ton College, at Eastern
Mennonite--3:30

2:00

2:00

0 Baseball vs. Randolph-
Macon (DH )--1 :00

0 M Lax at Franklin &
Marshall--1:00

0 W Lax at F ranklin&
Marshall--11:00

0 Track hosts W&L
Invitational--9:30

0 M Tennis vs. Denison--

° W Tennis vs. Salisbury--

° W Tennis vs. Denison--
1:00

 

 

Siﬁiirs

TUESDAY, MARCH 9, 2004

CIRCLING THE GOAL. A General circles the Greensboro goal looking for an open teammate. The team would go on to easily defeat Greensboro 18-6.

Womens’
claims twoﬁwins

BY SARAH BLOOM
STAFF WRITER

The Generals started out
strong and never looked back as
they defeated Greensboro 18-6
on Wednesday night. The
women got off to an early lead
with four straight goals. Greens-
boro followed suite, however,
with three consecutive goals.

With 16:31 remaining on the
clock, senior Kelly Taffe scored
back—to-back goals, securing the
General’s led over the Pride.
Taffe lead the Generals in scor-
ing along with teammate, fresh-
man Kelly Evans. Each claimed
four goals.

“I love being able to play
with people that understand the
game,” said Evans of her game.
“As thrilling as it is to score
goals though, the wins and
losses are a complete team ef-

lacrosse

fort.

Senior Joarma Perini pro-
tected the net for the Generals
with eight saves.

The Generals then traveled
to Virginia Wesleyan to com-
pete in the team’s second
ODAC competition of the sea-
son. The Generals returned vic-
torious with a score of 12-8.

Though the Generals had
only a narrow lead at half-tirne,
they came back strong and se-
cured the win in the second
half. Senior Lee Wheeler
headed the effort with four goals
and an assist while teammate
sophomore Kate Lester fol-
lowed closely behind with four
goals of her own.

Perini again saved the net
eight times for the Generals.

The team will travel next to
Franklin and Marshall to com-
pete on Saturday.

Up and down week for mens’ lacrosse

BY CAMERON GARNER
STAFF WRITER

The Generals entered this
past week looking to rebound
from a loss to #4 Washington
College on Saturday. They
hosted Lycoming (who is
Lycoming anyway?) on Tuesday
afternoon, and despite a lacklus-
ter effort, they managed to pull
out a win. W&L got four goals,
including the game winner in
triple overtime, from Senior
Midﬁelder Dustin Martin and two
goals from junior attackrnan/male
model Body, en route to a 8-7
overtime victory. Vlfith this mi-
nor boost of confidence, the
Generals prepared for #10
Gettysburg, a team that has. had
trouble beating the Generals the
past few years.

Despite the fact that Senior
midﬁelder Mike “no it’s not bro-
ken, I mean, it hurts, but I play

through pain” McNamara scored
half the Generals’ goals, they
were unable to convert on nu-
merous chances, hitting an ab-
surd number of pipes, and lost
their second of the season to a
solid Gettysburg team. The Bul-
lets (is that really politically cor-
rect? I mean we had to change
to the Wizards and they’re al-
lowed to stay the Bullets?) held
W&L to two goals thanks to a
stingy defense whose “long
poles were the only good play-
ers on their team,” according to
junior midﬁelder Adam Librett
Chesbrough. The Generals
goals, however, were almost
worth the loss.

Senior attack/midfielder
Roland “self-nominated funniest
man in attendance Saturday
night” Williams scored on a la-
ser from “about midﬁeld,” to cut
the deﬁcit to 2-1 with 7: 14 remain-
ing before halftime. The Bullets
tallied a third goal with 3:37 in
the first half, inspiring

W&L table tennis falls to UVA, J MU

BY JANE BEALL
STAFF WRITER

OnFebruary 7, 2004, the crib
Table Tennis team traveled to
Charlottesville, Virginia for its ﬁrst
intercollegiate match. The brave
pioneering members of the Club,
sporting khakis with either duck
boots or boat shoes, showed up
late to Slaughter Gymnasium and
were met with intense play, al-
ready in progress. Virginia Tech’s
squad, the perennial favorite, were
outﬁtted in dry-ﬁt jerseys with
their names (which were mostly
of Asian origin) and numbers bla-
zoned across the back. The Gen-
erals, however, were not intimi-
dated.

The Generals first faced
UVA’s Cavaliers, which fea-
tured Martin and Cathy, two
Junior Olympic table tennis
competitors, and a coach that
was the national champion not
twice, but thrice, in the seven-
ties (I kid you not, I kid you
not). W&L scouts reported that
the UVA team holds their prac-

tices on their Friday nights.
These practices are followed
by team bonding sessions that
go late into the night, during
which they trade Pokemon
cards and play with their Pogs.
The Generals, who boast the
likes of a freshman named
Barrett Something, and a jun-
ior stud named Chris Some-
thing in the one and two slots,
respectively, put forth a valiant
group effort, but ultimately fell
in both singles and doubles
match play.

Next, the brave Generals
took on the purple and gold
Dukes from James Madison
University. The really, really, ri-
diculously good looking pair of
brothers (fraternal and biologi-
cal), Walker and Matt Nickles,
fought hard against JMU’s
best. Though they both re-
corded losses, mostly due to
the shaggy hair that blocked
their vision, they looked ex-
tremely handsome in their
matching polo shirts. Some kid
named Marshall, who appar-
ently doesn’t even go to W&L
and is in fact, currently enrolled

House for Rent
In The Country

4‘ Bedroom
4 Bath

Lease goes from June 15, 2004 to June 15,
2005

1.5 miles‘ on Rt. 60 East

66JaWS99

as a freshman at Clemson Uni-
versity, tagged along and
sparred in several matches -
all of which he lost. The
doubles battle showcased the
skills of veterans

Tyler Van
Leeuwan and
Jane Beall. The

duet dazzled the
crowd with their

\ With growling
stomachs signaling
the nearness of

rallies against the clubs Virginia
Polytechnic Institute, Fork Union
Military Academy, and Piedmont
Community College. In celebra-
tion of their hard fought matches,
the team went to
Charlottesville’s
famous greasy
spoon on the Cor-
ner, The White
Spot, where they

smiles and good lunchtime’ and a rewarded them-
sportsmanship, selves with artery-
though unfortu-  Outlook f01' c 1 o g g i n g
nately not with the upcoming Gusburgers.
their talent. Ulti- Though the
mately, the pair matChes9the Club was essen-
lost both of their Generals gracefully tially devastated
matches, but they bowed out of the by their opponent,
managed to it was agreed that
wrangle an im— toumamentm the Generals were
pressive total of the winners as far
five points from  TABLE as fashion was
their worthy ad— I concerned, and
versaries. TENNIS were unanimously
With growling voted the tourna-

stomachs signal-

ing the nearness of lunchtime,
and a bleak outlook for the up-
coming matches, the Generals
gracefully bowed out of the tour-
nament, forfeiting the remaining

3-800-643--$849 I wvmadstmrckcom

merits the Best
Dressed. Walker Nickels , in pos-
sibly the proudest moment of the
Club’s short history, was chosen
as the tourrIament’s Miss Con-
geniality.

McNamara to take the team on
his shoulders and snipe a G-O.
With little over two minutes to
go before halftime, the Booosh
caught a pass from freshman
Matt “hey Stanek” Arcati and
one-timed a perfect shot upper
ralph on the whimpering and
helpless freshman ‘burg Goalie
Pat Vaughan (no, really, it’s
spelled that way). This reporter
didn’t actually get to talk to
Vaughan, but most Generals on
the ﬁeld remember hearing him

say, “I need a clean pair of shorts,
coach.” Then some other stuff
happened; the Bullets managed
to score more goals than the Gen-
erals did at the end of regulation,
so they won, if you can call that
winning.

When asked about the game,
Body stated “I don’t know, prac-
tice is not going to be fun tomor-
row.” The Generals return to ac-
tion on Saturday when they
travel to ninth—ranked F&M.
Gametime is 1:00 pm.

Mens’ tennis

defeats Hampden-
Sydney College 7-0

BY ALLISON PERRY
CONTRIBUTING EDITOR

The Washington and Lee
men’s tennis team brought
home a win Wednesday after
defeating Hampden—Sydney, 7-
0, on the road. The men im—
proved-their record to 7-4, 4-0
in the ODAC. Hampden-
Sydney is now 1-1, 0-1 in the
ODAC.

Junior Paul McClure led
the men with a 6-3, 6-2 win over
Patrick Gee in the No. 1 singles
match. McClure is ranked 21st
nationally.

Sophomore David Shay
defeated Justin Paciocco 6-1, 6-
1 in the No.2 spot. In the No.3
singles match, senior Graham
Nix shut down Russ Brown, 6-
0, 6-0. ‘ .

Senior K.C. Schaefer also
won his match against Stephen
Johnson at No. 4, 6-0, 6-1. In
the No. 5 spot, sophomore Jor-
dan Eichenberger shut down
John Cronly 6-0, 6-0. Senior
Austin Kim rounded out the
singles play with a 6-0, 6-1 win
over Part Willings in the No. 6
match.

In doubles play, McClure
and Eichenberger teamed up to
defeat Gee and Johnson 8-5 at
No. 1. Kim and Nix won their
match with an 8-1 victory over
Paciocco and Brown at No. 2.
Schaefer and Shay shut down

their opponents, Cronly and
Willings, 8-0 in the No. 3 spot.

Washington and Lee is
currently ranked 8th in the In-
tercollegiate Tennis
Association’s (ITA) Division
III national rankings. The
men’s team was also picked first
in the 2004 ODAC Preseason
Spring poll. The poll is decided
by a vote taken of the league’s
coaches.

Captain Austin Kim says
the team is trying to include
matches against bigger teams
earlier in the season. Some of
the teams the Generals are gear-
ing up for are Salisbury, Mary
Washington, Swarthmore, and
Washington College. Kim says
the team is working on several
things in preparation for these
matches, particularly its
doubles play.

“Especially with the
doubles point, it is only one
point, but sometimes it can de-
cide the match,” Kim said. “We
have been working on our
doubles play, because that’s
actually a weakness for us.”
The Generals host Denison on
Saturday at 2:00 p.m. for a non-
conference match-up. This will
be the first match of the sea-
son for Denison. For the 2003
season, Denison finished with
an overall record of 8-9.
Salisbury has also been added
to the schedule for Saturday.

Support Generals’
gag/Athletics

Fraternities -- Sororities
Clubs -- Student Groups
Earn $1,000-$2,000 this semester with a proven
CampusFundraiser 3 hour fundraising event. Our
free programs make fundraising easy with no
risks. Fundraising dates are filling quickly, so get

with the program! It works. Contact
CampusFundraiser at (888) 923-3238, or visit
  .

IL

 

L’

 

PAGE 7 I

"'l’_i=ﬁ3RlE\l<.}"l’Lllv1l7I~ll

RTS 8t

  

LIFE

MEGANMORGAN
ARis&LnrEnnoR

Washington and Lee lesbian lives ‘out’ life in Lexington

« A minority of one: that’s how Peggy
Altman feels at times. Peggy, a junior ge-
ology major from Belle Glade, Fla., is cur-
rently the only out lesbian on campus.

It hasn’t been hard to be the only les-
bian, Peggy says, “except for the lack of
options,” she adds with a smile. Dating,
obviously, can be hard when your pos-
sible dates include you and only you.
“There’s never re-

stated, “Lesbians Wanted,” followed by
her phone number. She never quite
worked up the nerve to hang it.
According to Peggy, it might be
easier to be a lesbian on campus than a
gay man because most people don’t react
as harshly to lesbians. Nonetheless, she
can’t explain why more women don’t come
out. “I don’t know what it is, honestly,”

ally been a lesbian
population. With _
guys there’s six or i

 

MORETHANMAJNSTREAM
KELLY jo LARSEN ‘05

Peggy says. “To be
out and comfortable I
think it’s easier to be
female and gay but I

seven out men” but
Peggy embodies
the entire population herself. She’s
learned to compensate by visiting
Roanoke and Lynchburg. “You just kinda
meet your random people,” she explains.

However, she thinks like she’s not re-

ally the lone lesbian at W&L. “I don’t-»

think I’m the only one. I think I’m the
only one that acknowledges it and is
out,” she asserts. She often jokes about
starting a lesbian recruiting service. Dur-
ing the Gay—Straight Alliance’s National
Coming Out Day celebrations she even
designed a sign to hang up that simply

think that the
acknowledgement is harder.”

Peggy believes the Greek system
could have an effect on keeping lesbians
in the closet. Peggy deactivated from a
sorority last year. “It’s a lot of money to
spend on something that I wasn’t really
involved in,” she explains. There were
never any incidents in the sorority that
affected Peggy, and her membership did
not keep her from coming out. “I wasn’t
really involved in the sorority to a point
where it would affect me. There really
wasn’t a chance for anything,” Peggy
said. However, the Greek system could be

holding a lot of lesbians in the closet.
“There’s a lot of pressure to be the ideal
woman and a lot of pressure to be a cer-
tain way. Everybody, whether it’s one big
group or a minority, wants to fit in. It’s
human nature to want to be accepted by
a group,” she explained. Then again, “no
one ‘knows how a» srat would react be-
cause there aren’t any [out lesbian so-
rority members].”

Peggy came out to her teammates on the
basketball team freshman year and she told
her parents that summer. She took the fall of
her sophomore year off to complete National
Outdoor Leadership School training and
when she came back to campus she didn’t
keep her sexuality a secret. “I came back and
people knew and I didn’t hide it. I never hid
it but it’s not like I shouted it from the roof-
tops either,” Peggy remembers. She also had
a girlfriend at the time and w2sn’t afraid to
walk across the campus hand—in—hand with
her.

When she does come out, most
people simply say, “Oh, ok,” and move
on. “Guys ask me for sex advice, and
mostly the girls just don’t say anything,”
Peggy says. Peggy might be among the

few girls on campus that a guy could ask
about'sex and not appear to be hitting on
her or just being really inappropriate. “I
think‘ the majority is ok with it. They
might not agree with homosexuality but
are just like, ‘to each his own.’ The out-
spoken, though, are really outspoken,”
Peggy explained. No one has ever said
anything directly to her and she learns
of most of the opposition through the
newspapers. «

Peggy came to W&L after applying
early decision and knew very little about
the school, even less how the student
body reacted to gays and lesbians. “Se-
nior year I was still trying to play it
straight and it really wasn’t on my mind.
I knew [W&L] had mountains and it was
a good education,” Peggy recalled. She
has enjoyed her time here and explains,
“My problems with W&L are not because
I’m a lesbian.” She issues advice to her
fellow students to simply be themselves.
“To anybody——be it gay, straight, blue,
black, anything-be comfortable in that
,and you’ll be surprised how many people
will be accepting. Give them the benefit
of the doubt.”

ONE HECK or A PARTY

Dancing the night away. On the top left, pary-goers danced the night away to the sounds of the band Voltage Brothers, who performed a wide variety of music for attendees. On the top right and bottom,
decorations including ﬂowers, mushrooms and lollipop trees covered the Warner Center reﬂecting the theme of the dance, Willy Wonka and the Chocolate Factory . In addition, the smaller gym, which
was set up for a DJ, was decorated to resemble the bubble room from the movie and had a screen playing scenes from the movie.

 

mg—tum

Tom James Company

.,,_\

at :6“?-~ W___ I
‘v ».‘\ ‘ "xx;

   

terraced landscaping.

Asking $229,000.

(540) 464-3738
or

Home forS al

704 N. MAIN ST., LEXINGTON, VA

Built circa 1880 on Institute Hill, now completely restored with
modern plumbing, wiring, heating, windows and new appliances.
New carpeting in all main rooms plus stenciled wood ﬂoors.

4 Bedrooms, 1 1/2 Baths, Livingroom/Diningroom, all new
kitchen plus a large utility/oﬂice Room. Large third floor
storage room and an attached outside storage area.
Two large front porches and beautiful old stone walls on

Easy walk to VMI, Washington and Lee or downtown shopping.
Private lane access and parking. Taxes $400 yearly.

Interviews?
Internship?
Special occasion?

your best!!

and Sports Coats

Student Packages &

Contact Adam Williams
I for an appointment or
with questions

5408154557

(540) 46047 1 8

Let us help you look and feel

Custom and Ready Made Suits

Shirts, pants, shoes and all accessories

Gi t Certi icates Available

Adam.Wi1liams @tomjamesretail.com

BY MEGAN MORGAN
ARTS AND LIFE EDITOR

this, several students

have recently an-
nounced their
engagments. This
week, two couples have
released announce-
ments.

Mr. and Mrs

 

Jonathan Downes of
Granville,’ Ohio an-
nounce the engagement
of their daughter, Miss
Helen Elizabeth
Downes to Mr. Andrew

Tex.

As graduation approaches, stu-
dents have begun to make summer, ca-
reer and relationship plans. As part of

 

Helen Downes & Andrew Fotinos

Christopher Fotinos, son of Reverend
and Mrs. Dennis Fotinos of Kingwood,

Miss Downes is a 2002 graduate of
Washington and Lee University, and is
the Project Coordinator for the Envi-
ronmental Studies Program at Wash-
ington and Lee. Mr. Fotinos will gradu-
ate in June from Washington and Lee
with a degree in politics and environ-

Two W&L couples announce engagements

mental studies. The couple plan to
move to Charlottesville, Va. after
their wedding where Miss Downes
hopes to pursue a master’s degree
in elementary education.

The wedding is planned for Aug.

7, 2004 at R. E. Lee Memo-
rial Episcopal Church in
Lexington, Va.

Mr. and Mrs. George
Small announce the en-
gagement of their daugh-
ter, Miss Justine Small to
Mr. Cameron Smith, son
of Mr. and Mrs. Sid
Smith of Brentwood,
Tenn.

Miss Small is a mem-
ber of the class of 2005
and Mr. Smith is a mem-

ber of the class of 2004. The couple
met orientation week of her fresh-
man year, and began dating shortly
thereafter.

Miss Small and Mr. Smith plan

to wed in Brentwood on July 2, 2005.
Mr. Smith plans to attend law school
after graduation, and so their future
plans hinge on his law school
choice.

 

 

PAGE 8

THE

int RING-iutifir

AST ORD

MEGANMORGAN
Ans&lrrrEDrroR

FMAl:lvlORGl\NMl@WlUlDlJ

TUESDAY, MARCH 9, 2004

Absolute Fratlord salutes women of Washington and Lee

This past week was amazing. But why is
that? I had a twelve-page midterm to take
care of, in addition to another paper and a
test. Furthermore, I had to supervise IM
Basketball all week long, since last year I
made that fateful decision to
sell my soul to the intramural _
program. Ididn’t get a lot of 
sleep. I lost some money in
poker. I ran out of clean socks
and never got around to do laundry. I ripped
a hole in my favorite pair of corduroys. My
truck almost ran out of gas. Truthfully,
given all these things that drove me crazy,
the week probably seemed sorta crappy,
right?

But I stand by my comment — It was an
amazing week! Any guesses why?

As the weather gets warmer, we all get
to see the most beautiful thing about W&L,
and it’s not the red brick buildings or the
blossoming flowers. It’s the girls.

W&L girls are unbelievable. I firmly be-
lieve that every male student at W&L is
spoiled by our proximity to some of the most
wonderfully attractive ladies in the world.
As with all things, W&L tends to put its own

 

ALL CALL FOR EQUALITY.

A1>soLUr FRATTDTRDT
LlImSLIvIrr_H_‘@|4_

unique twist on the typical college experi-
ence, and with W&L ladies, it’s no different.
Maybe it has to do with the Southern debu-
tante heritage or with the Greek system or
whatever, but I really do think that there’s
something about W&L girls,
the way they dress, the way
they behave, or just who they
are that places them worlds
apart from the typical American
college females.

Seriously — which frat guy, in going
down to help freshmen move in during the
first day of orientation week, hasn’t sighed
and marveled at the ridiculous girls who are
entering the school? Freshman Face-Books
are transformed into the Sports Illustrated
Swimsuit issues, with all W&L guys debat-
ing over which new ladies compete for the
-“Hottest Girl to Stroll the Colonnade”
Award. During the first few weeks of fall
term, upperclassmen frat guys are gener-
ally more concerned with “rushing” fresh-
men girls than the guys, knowing full well
that frosh guys will follow the girls just
about anywhere.

Now with the weather getting warmer,

. Guerilla Girls. On March 2 a comedy troupe called The Guerilla Girls performed in the W&L Elrod Commons Theater. The troupe, who
has been performing since 1985, consists of anonymous feminists that take the names of dead women artists, appear in guerilla masks in
public and use humor to highlight and start discussions on sexism and racism in art, film, politics and culture as a whole.

it’s like stumbling into a department store
catalog. One of my pledges has an internet
poll on the best thing about spring, and,
sure enough, at the top of the list is the
obvious answer: Girls in Mini-Skirts. I won-
der if any observant students have noticed
the big goofy smile on my face as I walk
down Stemmons Plaza, passing girl after
wonderful girl, thanking my lucky stars that
I’ve had the opportunity to spend four glo-
rious years in this paradise.

I’m sure there are some critics. I’ve
heard a few myself — all those naysayers
who have convinced themselves that W&L
girls are spoiled elitists Southern daugh-
ters who’ve been bred to understand how
immaculate they are. Typically though,
these critics are bashing sororities, not the
girls in them. I’ve had my own negative
comments towards characteristics of the
sororities at this school (towards fraterni-
ties too for that matter). But I think you’d
be hard-pressed to find a student who, af-
ter meeting these supposedly “elitist” girls
individually, would not be impressed by
the charm, the kindness and the genuine
nature that the majority of W&L girls have.

This rebuke is
part of a pattern
in The Passion.
The release
of “The Pas-

year-old man.

Absolutely.

DY G mg- um

 

U
I

Q Which possesses more hotness? Colton
Ward’s rat tail or Travis Srnith’s VMI basketball
sweater vest?

Q Hell Week; Since no one has pledgeship any-
more, can we haze the administration?

Q Since they go unrecognized too often, I want
to recognize and make all aware of the Minority
Student Dream Team, Kisha Barnes, Zakiyah
Bradford and Kaela Harmon.

Q Look at the panoramic picture on the third level
of the library. Are the two men on the far left and

the far right not one and the same? Weird.

Q Will my paper ever finish itself?

Q Do the professors ever tire of teaching? Be-
cause I’m getting tired of going to class.

Q Has anyone else noticed how cute the Italian-
looking pizza guy in the Marketplace is?

Q Quick Poll: Harry Vlfrnston vs. Tiffany engage-
ment ring: No-Brainer, Harry Winston, OF COURSE!
For those who don’t understand, if Tiffany equals
Mercedes-Benz then Harry Winston equals Rolls
Royce. It’s as simple as that.

Q Damn Brittany and her masochistic ways for
cutting the tail of our gerbil.

Q Shout out to the SAO for sponsoring the ﬁrst
video game tournament.

Q More on that: Has everyone heard about the
Halo Team Tournament on March 12?

Q Still more: Way to go SAO! Ofﬁcial recogni-
tion by the EC as a student organization.

Q Kisha would like to announce her plans to be
engaged to J eb later in the month.

Q I understand that Martha was found guilty on
all four counts, but can we please stop the “How to
Brighten Up Your Prison Cell” jokes already?

Q Today in transportation: Both the CSS Virginia
and the Goodyear blimp were ﬁrst launched today,
in 1862 and 1972, respectively.

Q In Canada, yesterday was Alanis Morissette Day.

Jesus of Nazareth hangs from
the cross near the end of Mel’s
Gibson’s “The Passion of The
Christ,” when a Jewish thief, hang-
ing from his own cross to Jesus’
right insults him. “Aren’t you the
Christ? Save yourself and us!”

sion,” Mel Gibson’s explicit depic-
tion of the ﬁnal 12 hours of the life
of Jesus is laden with controversy.
Jewish religious groups have pro-
tested the ﬁlm, saying that the
movie will inﬂame anti—sernitism by
its portrayal of Jews playing a large
role in the cruciﬁxion. Hollywood
critics have accused Gibson of em-
ploying urmecessary violence to
incite hate and anti-sernitism. Jour-
nalists have repeatedly knocked on
the door of Gibson’s father, Hutton,
seeking one more outlandish quote
about the Holocaust from the 85-

But having seen “The Pas-
sion” personally, I was disturbed
and relieved to find these accusa-
tions of the ﬁlm were fraudulent.
The pattern in the ﬁlm is not anti-
semitic; it is a pattern of duality.
Are there evil Jews in the ﬁlm?
Yes. Are there also Jewish heroes?

After the criminal hanging
from Jesus’ right slights the Christ,
another Jewish thief cruciﬁed on
Jesus’ left replies, “We are pun-
ished justly, for we are getting what
our deeds deserve. But this man
has done nothing wrong.” Then
he said, “Jesus, remember me when
you come into your kingdom.”

Jesus answered him, “I tell
you the truth, today you will be
with me in paradise.”

I expect a few reactions to this article.
One generally held perception, or at least
it’s one that I’ve heard before, is that I write
certain things in my articles so that I can
“score” with the W&L ladies. My re-
sponse, with all I’ve written above, is this
— CAN YOU BLAME ME? Before I get
ahead of myself, I am currently in a rela-
tionship, but really, what’s so ridiculous
about that idea?

Also, this is‘ not intended to be some
“gender role” article. I’m not arguing that
girls at this school are so attractive because
they maintain some accepted social position
or some garbage like that. If you’d like to
debate my views about gender roles in the
American society, feel free, but I’m not try-
ing to make a political statement in this case.
I’m simply stating that W&L girls, in gen-
eral, have no equal among the college world.

In a pretty crappy week, warm weather
and W&L girls brightened my days — I think
most W&L fellas will agree that, with Spring
Term fast approaching, they look forward to
the sundresses and the tans and the girls
that make this school an even more amazing
place than it already is.

Is Passion anti-sernitic?

The problem with Gibson’s
critics is that they fail to recog-
nize the film’s Jewish heroes
and heroines and focus on the
negative portrayal of the Phari-
sees, the Jewish hierarchy
which-coerces Judas to deliver
Jesus to them
and later per-
suades Pontius
Pilate to crucify
him. ‘

However, like the man hang-
ing from Jesus’ left, the ﬁlm has,
plenty of Jewish heroes. Do not
forget that the primary protago-
nist of the plot, Jesus, is Jewish.
His mother, the Virgin Mary, not
only is a Jewish character, but is
played by a Romanian Jew. John,
the disciple who follows Jesus all
the way to Golgotha and watches
after Mary, is Jewish. Simon of
Cyrene, the laborer who carries
Jesus’ cross for him when he is
too weak to carry it himself and
who fends off the mob from at-
tacking the beleaguered man, is
Jewish. Mary Magdalene, one of
Jesus’ followers—saved by the
phrase “he who is without sin, cast
the first stone”—loyally stands
beneath Jesus while he slowly
dies on the cross. Nicodemus,
the Pharisee who ardently de-
fends Jesus during the trial in front
of the Sanhedrin, is Jewish. The
“woman,” who brings Jesus a cup
of water and a shawl after he col-
lapses while carrying the cross, is
a Jew. Even Judas, who often in

THE l-FoRMA’noN“i‘
[AKE TROT1‘ER‘0i_

evil man, is portrayed sympatheti-
cally vulnerable instead of wicked.

Likethetwomencruciﬁed next
to Jesus, there are bad guys who
are Jews, and good guys who are
Jews in “The Passion.” A lot like
real1ife,isn’tit?

(I) Erin Julius did not go Fancy Dress. Ifyou see
her, try to cheer her up, especially if you’re a Keydet.

Q First on FD: The decorations were great and
the Voltage Brothers were awesome!

Q Another: Professors I’d love‘ to see at FD that
didn’t come—— Futch, Coach Stickley, Pleva,
DeLaney, McRae.

Q More: It was really terrible that the bars ran
out of soda and cups as early as 11:00.

(I) Still more: I enjoyed the slow dances. There
aren’t enough slow dances at W&L. You can’t ever
slow dance in a frat basement, so FD is really the
only opportunity.

Q Yet one more: Did anyone else notice a lot
more kissing and blatant, out-in—the—open chug-
ging from ﬂasks than in years past?

Q Still yet one more: Where was the chocolate
river?

Q Finally: I’m sick and tired of hearing coeds
complain about importing. They can do it as well,
but that would be admitting defeat.

Q Is anybody else hungry right now?

Q Here’s to a happy and safe un—Hell Week with
lots of un—hazing.

Q Stunningly, my pre-FD plans at the Mirage
didn’t have any takers. Same went for the after-
party at Dornino’s.

Q Thank heavens the Guerilla Girls have come
and gone and those miserable posters are no longer
a blight on our fair campus.

Q Congratulations to the St. Edward Eagles on
winning their ninth state ice hockey championship!

Q What is up with that girl playing the theme
from Forrest Gump in the Commons 24/7 on the
piano?

Q Whoever is blaring that annoying Eiffel 65
“Blue” song from Graharn—Lees needs to stop.

Q Beer goggles or Wonkavision?

Q “Raging Intellectuals”— little more than mali-
cious, hateful, childish whining. Garbage like that
shouldn’t be printed. '

Q I’m happy the Co-op is now carrying Diet Coke
with lime.
Q Do your part to keep our campus beautiful:

Don't walk on the grass.

Q E—mail your anonymous Quick Hits and laments
about the lack of fun Hell Week pranks to
phi@wlu.edu.

Christian lore is portrayed as an,

v!

‘V

 

Fiji house corps
tells of wrongdoing

BY PATRICIA BALLANTYNE
SENIOR STAFF WRITER

The 2004 pledgeship season has been plagued with Washing-
ton and Lee security investigations. Security will now be investi-
gating hazing allegations against Fiji for the second time this year.
After F ij'i's first investigation in February, the IF C cleared them of
all charges concerning sleep deprivation.

But this second time around, Fiji admits to instructing pledges

“to drink a ‘treat’ which included teriyaki sauce, ketchup, mustard, '

and other household condiments. ” A statement from the president of
F ij'i’s House Corporation also lists other potential hazing oﬂenses
involving alcohol, eggs, and water balloons at off—campus houses.
Fiji, however, is still under investigation. The IFC will hear
their case soon. Fiji is not the only fraternity to face hearings from
the IF C, which cleared Chi Psi after an investigation earlier this
year. Three other fraternities are currently under investigation.
Fiji is the only house to give details of ongoing investigations.

We want to acknowledge that the IFC will be opening an investigation
mtoaHegedhazingacﬁviﬁessponsoredbycenainhidividr.1alsﬁomthePlﬁ
GamrnaDeltafratemity. Wewaritthe schooltohearﬁornthehouseleadership
ﬂiatweareveryomceniedaboutﬂieseaﬂegaﬁmisaridwiﬂnothideariydﬁng
ﬁomtheadministIationortheIFC. We haveoonductedanintemal investiga-
tion that included comprehensive interviews of all members of the fraternity.
We areveiy concerned aboutthe security and safety of ourpledges. Wehave
uiedtosetanexmripleforaHGreekorgmnzaﬁmsbysendinganBssage&Iatwe
don‘t take any hazing allegations lightly and that we have made all of our
information available to the IFC. The following is what we have concluded
following our investigation

An unscheduled, unauthorized pledge training event took place witli—
outthe supervision of the house oﬁioers. Alcohol was present by certain

  R WAsH1NcEi:i\; AND'iFiE UNIVERSITY

Tloestutleot ooice ofll’/osliirzgtoo ortdlee Uoioersizysioce 1897

BY CHRIS LAUDERMAN

I EH MONDAY,MARCH 15,2004

Mb 3'

VoLuME@v'lll,No.Vlll

~«

Historic State Theater underin ajor changes

ASST ARTS 85 LIFE EDITOR

Students will only have to wait about another month or two
before the State Theatre reopens after renovations totaling almost
$500,000. Major construction plans include repairs on ﬂoors and
improvements in heating and air conditioning.

One major feature the State Theatre was lacking was a handi-
capped accessible bathroom. That will be added as well as a new
concession stand.

Don Hasfurther, Executive Director of the Lexington Down-
town Development Authority (LDDA), plans on working with 10-
cal people who will be involved in construction as well as the
management group to help them with ﬁnancial decisions. The
State Theatre qualiﬁes for both federal and Virginia historic tax
credits since all of downtown Lexington is a federally registered
historic district.

The State’s three cinemas currently hold 700 people, but after
the renovation, it will hold only 600. The theatre will retain three
cinemas, but the seats will be further spaced further apart. “By

‘ taking out the current seating in there, and it is very cramped. . .they

are going to increase the number of people who come to that the-
ater in the evenings and therefore are going to benefit," said
Hasfurther.

“It really is‘a very important project for a downtown,” said
architect Kathy Frazier, “There aren’t too many downtowns in
Shenandoah Valley anymore that have theaters.” She went on to
say that a theater is a business establishment that brings people
into downtown. While waiting on a movie, they will shop or go get
something to eat at a café.

This renovation is the first major project since the theatre was
rebuilt after a fire. Warner Brothers actually hired architects to

..  . 1
]EB BRooxs/ 7heRmg-tumPbz

rebuild the burned State Theatre in 1938. In the late thirties, the-
atres were very ornate places. Until 1987, the State had one theatre
with a balcony. The balcony was converted into two separate
theatres.

R/C Theatres of Maryland, a theatre group that owns cinemas
in ﬁve states, currently owns the State_Theatre.

Honor Scholars descend on campus this week

upperclassmen, which is a violation of University policy on pledge ed1ica-
tion. It went directly against instruction from the House Corporation and
rides set forth by the chapter leadership.

We are apologetic to all pledges present who were forced to 
We acknowledge that calisthenics were enforced, and that the pledges were
instructed to drink a ‘ ‘treat’ which included teriyaki sauce, ketchup, mustard,
and other household condiments. This is in direct violation of the H‘C’s
regulations and can be construed as hazing.

We acknowledge that the pledges were involved in some sort of egg
tossing and water balloon activities that are strictly prohibited by fraternity
and University policy. The chapter leadership is concerned that these
activities took place without o1Ir knowledge, and we want to ensure the
pledges that these actions will not be tolerated in the flIl1lIB._

We have concerns for the freshman who did not ﬁle a formal allegation
aga.instthehousebutwhowasdirectedbyDeanLeonardtoanswerhon—
estly regarding the night’s activities. The Zeta Deuteron leadership and
fraternity will strongly support this freshman, who did nothing wrong but
respondedhonesﬂytouiquinesﬁomDeanLeonmdbasedontheUniversity’s
Honor Code.

Chapterleadershipplanstoimposeseveieperialﬂesagamstﬁiemdivithr
als involved in this unauthorized event to prevent oifcampus activities like this
fromtakingplaceinthefutuie. Inaddition,theHouseCorporationandleader-
ship will implement ‘comprehensive changes to pledge training that will ensure
propereducaﬁomuaimng,andﬁaternalbon(ﬁrigdiatwﬂlbmeﬂtdepledges,
ﬁateinity, University, and suirouriding community.

We are aware that history has played a part in inﬂuencing our
pledge activities. We want to make sure that future pledges will
not need to experience inappropriate rituals that have been passed
down through the ages.

We look forward to the IFC’s response to these irnproprieties, and

‘ promise to work with the IFC at improving our recruiting, pledging, and

education protocols. In summation, we want to acknowledge our grati-
tude to Deans Watkins and Leonard as well as Matt Jacobs’ staff for their
support in completing our internal investigation. (

Sincerely,
Jack Norberg, President of Zeta Deuteron House Corporation

BY KATHERINE SHELL
STAFFWRITER

From Tuesday to Thursday
of this week, ninety five

prospectives will travel to

W&L’s campus to compete for
an honor scholarship.

The prospectives are from
thirty different states, and will
compete for W&L’s highest
scholarship, the George Wash-
ington Honor Scholarship. The

tuition for four years. “The com-
petition is designed not only to
select the scholarship recipients,
but also to provide a snapshot
of Washington and Lee life,”
says Kristen Binette Assistant
Director of Admissions and
Scholarship Coordinator.

The seniors in high school
will stay with current Washington
and Lee students and will attend
classes and experience daily life
on campus. Binette said, “We

with a strong understanding of
what makes Washington and
Lee such a unique place.” Ap-
plications to house prospective
horior scholars were distributed
through the Admissions ofﬁce
last week.‘

In order to be selected for
an Honor Scholarship, the pro-
spective must undergo a com-
petition held next week.

Students will be selected
by a group of admissions staff,

selected, will be expected to
maintain a GPA of 3.0 over the
next four years.

Activities for . the
prospectives next week include
tours, meals with current stu-
dents and faculty, interviews,
and meetings with faculty and
athletic coordinators. On
Wednesday night, Mike
Supor, a magician and illusion-
ist, will perform in the Com-
mons Theater at 9:00. Refresh-

Honor Scholarship pays for all

hope they will leave Lexington

faculty, and students, and, if merits willfollow.

Truck driver implicated in Owings’
death receives 30 days in jail, fine

BY ERIN JULIUS
NEWS EDITOR

A judge has handed down sentencing in the trial of the
driver of the rig that killed Cullem Owings last year’s car crash.
The driver, Steven Mark Rodger, was declared guilty of reck-
less driving and received a sentence of 120 days in jail, a
$1500 ﬁne and he lost his driver’s license for a year. All but 30
days of the jail sentence was suspended, Rodgers began serv-
ing his sentence last Monday. _

Following their son’s tragic death, Steve and Susan
Owings founded Concerned Americans Advocating Interstate
Roadway Safety. C.A.A.I.R.S.’s website, www.caairs.org, the
organization exists to, “educate the general public regarding
the unnecessary and unacceptable dangers that exist on the
vast majority of U.S. highways where “big rigs” are

concerned...the effective steps other civilized countries have
taken to protect their citizens from these threats.”

C.A.A.I.R.S. proposes that all “big rigs” have electronic
governors that limit their speed to 56 miles per hour,that truck
drivers should be paid wages so that there are no incentives
to drive longer, faster and more recklessly. C.A.A.I.R.S. pro-
poses that the,federal government regulate the trucking in-
dustry, as it is inter—state, and therefore within federal juris-
diction.

Washington and Lee friends of Owings are memorializing
Owings through the Cullem Owings ’03 Fellowship. The Fel-
lowship will be awarded to juniors who are good scholars, are
articulate, “with some grace and poise in demeanor while at
the same time being sensitive to the values and opinions of
others.” Recipients of the Fellowship are expected to go off-
campus to discuss the University from a student’s point of
view.

Anti—Ignorance campaign planned to hit campus in April

BY KATIE HENDERSON
STAFF WRITER

V Students on campus are fighting igno-
rance.

Another event that is in the works is an event
called Mix ‘Em Up Dinner. The idea is that when
everyone goes into the dining hall for dinner they will
pick a number out of a hat and sit at the correspond-
ing numbered table instead of sitting with their friends.

“The idea is to encourage people to step out
of their comfort zone,” said Harmon. ‘

“When people get out of their own bubble it is
amazing to realize that you might have things in common
with people you have never talked to before,” she said.

According to Harmon, there is a misconcep-
tion that Washington and Lee is not a diverse cam-
pus. '

“We are diverse in so many ways; the way we
look, act, think, and the activities in which we are

Junior Kaela Harmon began thinking about

involved,” she said.

starting the Anti—Ignorance Campaign when a stu-
dent wore a swastika armband to a costume party
in February.

“The swastika thing made me realize that
people don’t know or pretend that they do not
know that [an emblem like that would] offend some
people,” Kaela Harmon said of the catalyst of the
Campaign.

The goal of the Anti-Ignorance Campaign is to
provide students with information about diversity
on campus.

Pamphlets are circulating, which show facts
and figures including campus organizations
based on diversity, examples of hate on cam-
pus, and percentages of minority groups. The
ﬁgures describe Washington and Lee diversity in
concrete terms. ’

“Our ultimate goal is to create a dialogue,”
Harmon said.

The campaign will kick off on April 19 and will
last for a month. Various groups on campus are spon-
soring events such as the Judy Shepard lecture and

The number of women on campus exceeds
1,000 for the first time

Students hail from 48 states and the Distrct
of Columbia"

Virginia is the most largely represented
state, with 363 students. Maryland follows
with 155 students, Texas with 144 students.

North Dakoa and Montana are the only
states with no representation

Students live in 38 other countries, with
citizenships in 50 different countries

Diversity on Washington and Lee ’s Campus: Facts and Figures

At least 13 students with an alternative
sexual orientation

campus

25%,of students identify themselves as
Catholic, 18% as Episcopalian and 37% as
Christian of another denornination...3% as
Jewish and at least 5 students are Muslim
Bulgaria is the best—represented country,
with 10 students

There are 89 Asian/Paciﬁc Islanders on

There are 117 black students on campus
There are 25 Hispanic students on campus

There are 4 Native Americans on campus

“People try not to be diverse and they also
think that diversity is a bad word,” she said.

As a result, this is what the campaign
hopes to change. And therefore, the Anti-
Ignorance Campaign is trying to get every-

' one on campus involved, even fraternities and
sororities. The campaign, according to Harmon,
is open to the entire campus.

“As W&L is trying to increase diversity, it is
important that we become a more educated cam-
pus,” said Hillel Vice President and Chair of Shabbat
Leah Greenberg of the educational component of
Harmon’s program.

“When we open the doors of communica-
tion so much can happen,” said Harmon hope-
fully. _

Everyone is welcome to the Anti—Igno—
rance Campaign’s next organizational meet-
ing on Thursday at 6 p.m. in the University
Commons.

Harmon’s committee already includes students
from many other student organizations. For more

the Gospel Fest that coincide with the campaign.

Infographic by ERIN ]U1IUs/ TbeRzng-tum Phi

information, contact Kaela Harmon.

   

Leadership conference slated for March 27

Washington and Lee University’s Office of Leadership De-
velopment will host its inaugural spring conference on Saturday,
March 27. This Conference will provide a vibrant vision of lead-
ership through its keynote speaker, Herb Rubenstein, an orienta-
tion and transition for newly elected organization ofﬁcers, and
leadership skills and capabilities for individuals with a wide range
of responsibilities on campus.

Herb Rubenstein is an attorney and President/Founder of
Growth Strategies, Inc., a leadership and management consulting
firm. He is co-author of Breakthrough, Inc. High Growth Strate-
gies for Entreprenurial Organizations. He also serves as an Ad-
junct Professor of Entrepreneurism at George Mason University,
is a founding director of the Association of Professional Futur-
ists, and is the author of numerous articles on futures studies,
leadership and strategic planning. He is President-elect of the
International Leadership Association. He has his law degree from
Georetown University, his Master of Public Affairs from the LBJ
School of Public Affairs, a graduate degree in sociology from the
University of Bristol in Bristol, England and was a Phi Beta Kappa,/
Omicron Delta Kappa graduate from Washington and Lee Univer-
sity in 1974. He will speak on “Being a Leader of Leaders” at l 1
a.m. in Lee Chapel.

Following the keynote address, conferees will attend a vari-
ety of breakout sessions beginning at noon in the Elrod Com-
mons. Topics for these sessions are: Stress Management, Carn-
pus Services and Facilities, Executive Committee Regulations and
Policies, Business Office Orientation, Groups and Goal Setting,
Effective Risk Management, Self Awareness and the Personality
Compass, Ethics-A Constraint or Enabler, Listening and Leader-
ship, The Community as a Resource. Each session will last for 50-
55 minutes.

Lunch will be provided for all participants in the Marketplace
at 1 p.m. There will be a brief closing at 4 p.m. in the Commons
Theater. A $10 fee will cover the cost of all handouts, lunch and a
conference gift. Brochures and registration forms are available in
the Leyburn Libraryy and Elrod Commons and from the Leader-
ship Development Ofﬁce, Room 343, Elrod Commons. The public
is welcome to attend the Lee Chapel keynote free of charge.

Celebrated author reads on campus

Ann Pancake, recipient of the 2003 Whiting Writers’ Award
and the 2003 Glasgow Prize, will read from her collection of short
stories, Given Ground, on Tuesday, March 16, at 4:30 p.m. in room
345 of W&L’s John Elrod Commons.

The reading, which is sponsored by the Glasgow Endow-
ment and Shenandoah: The Washington and Lee University Re-
view, is open to the public free of charge.

Since its publication in 2001, Pancake’s Given Ground has
been heralded as a richly complex exploration of cultural change
and class conﬂict in the communities of rural West Virginia.

Television journalist keynotes Ethics Institute

Lowell Bergman, a television journalist whose high proﬁle

break with CBS’ “60 Minutes” was the subject of the ﬁlm, “The I

Insider,” will present the keynote speech at Washington and Lee
University’s 37th Institute on the Ethics of Journalism on Friday
and Saturday, March 26-27.

Bergman, a founder of the Center for Investigative Reporting
and a frequent New York Times contributor, will speak on “The
End of News” at 5 :30 p.m. on Friday, March 26, in the theater of the
John W. Elrod University Commons. The speech is open to the
public without charge.

His talk will detail the uncertain future of news in the increas-
ingly commercialized setting created by market driven prograrn—
ming decisions and entertainment goals. '

Bergman also will be a panelist at the Institute’s case study
seminar on ethical choices in newsrooms beginning at 2:30 p.m.
Friday and continuing Saturday morning. The seminar with W&L
students will include 10 other journalists and academics from Wash-
ington, D.C., and states including New York, Kentucky and West
Virginia.

A simultaneous session Friday will feature a screening of the
new documentary, “Nuclear Proliferation and Pakistan,” by Sharon
Tiller, senior producer and designer of PBS’ Frontline/World pro-
gram. That session, which is open to the public without charge, is
at 2:30 p.m. in Room 345 of the Commons.

TUESDAY, MARCH 15, 2004

Hidden Hero Sarah Yakots ensured
financial success of Fancy Dress Ball

BY SARAH MURRAY
STAFF WRITER

When Sarah Yakots ’04
attended this year’s Fancy
Dress Ball, she looked past
the candy canes and lolli-
pops to the hard work and
success that lay behind
them. Yakots served as
auditor for FD 2004. Un-
der her management, the
event not only met its
budget goals, but posted a
$2,000 surplus-theresult
of months of effort.

' “I enjoyed every
minute of it because I
think it turned out wond'er-
ful,” Yakots said.

Students started an-
ticipating the ball in the
weeks leading up to it, but
Yakots began preparing at
the beginning of the
school year. She and other
officers began selecting
steering committee mem-
bers during fall term.

It also fell on Yakots to
keep track of each commit-
tee member’s hours. Mem-
bers must work 30 hours to
receive a free memorabilia
package for this year’s Willy
Wonka-themed event.

Yakots’ major responsi-
bility was setting the bud-
get for all aspects of Fancy
Dress. Once that had been
fixed, she decided on peri-
odic revisions while keep-
ing a tight rein on invoices

and purchases.

For Yakots," the task
was difficult because the
ball doesn’t receive a spe-
cific amount of money from
the Executive Committee.
The university directly
funds the ball, and the
steering committee “is ex-
pected to pay them back
with memorabilia sales.” If
the committee spends more
money than they raise, the
next year’s committee must
take up the slack.

Most of Yakots’ time
was‘ spent in the week
leading up to the ball it-
self. The senior worked
long hours on Wednesday,
Thursday, Friday, and Sat-
urday to make sure the
gym was ready for Satur-
day night. Butonce the
crowds began streaming into
the Warner Center, she knew
that the result had made ef-
fort worthwhile.

Yakots said, “I have not
seen the big gym look so

_ good in the four years that

I’ve been here, and I’ve
been on the committee for
three of those four years.”

The decorations pale
in comparison with good
financial planning. At the
end of the day, the steer-
ing committee topped its
$48,000 expenditure with
$50,000 worth of T—shirts,
tickets, and shotglasses
with clever slogans.

PHOTO oouarrsr SARAH YAKOTS
THINK FD. Without her efforts, Fancy Dress would have ﬂopped.

The senior is also a mem-
ber of the Student Recruit-
ment Committee, Omicron
Delta Kappa, and Kappa
Alpha Theta.

Yakots doesn’tjust ex-
ercise her budgetary skills
for Fancy Dress—she’s
also the treasurer for
Nabors Service League.

Research Conference planned for fall

BY IMRAN NAEMULLAH
CONTRIBUTING EDITOR

That pesky term paper you’ll be desperately finishing up two __

weeks from now might just turn into your hit presentation next
fall. Perhaps the thought hasn’t occurred to ‘most Washington
and Lee students, but now that possibility exists.

This fall, Washington and Lee will be hosting an undergradu-
ate research conference called “Science, Society, and the Arts,”
where students will present original research to an audience of
peers and faculty.

The conference will be held on Saturday, Nov. 13 on the Wash-
ington and Lee campus. Serving as guest speaker will be MIT
professor Alan Lightman, the best-selling author of Einsteins
Dreams.

It is being organized‘ by a group of W&L professors and stu-
dents, including Chair Robin LeBlanc of the Politics department,
Michael Anderson of the Economics department, Sascha Goluboff
of the Sociology and Anthropologyldepartment, Helen I’Anson of
the Biology department, as well Adrienne Norwood, Anne Rochfort,
and Alex Schaerrer, all class of 2005.

Research is being sought from students in all majors, so for
example, Goluboff represents not just the Sociology and Anthro-
pology department, but also the other departments in Newcomb
Hall: History, Philosophy, and-Religion.

The idea behind the conference, according to Professor
Goluboff, is to “get students interested in sharing their intellec-
tual work with other students. We want to help them get over
what we perceive as a fear of presenting intellectual work in pub-
lic.” A -

She adds that students are already good at expressing their
opinions, so adding a research component is a value-added ben-
eﬁt.

Goluboff emphasizes that students will mostly be presenting

work they have already done for class, so the amount of extra effort
required will not be a hurdle for students.

Another benefit that Goluboff sees is the greater integra-
tion of classroom instruction and less formal learning experi-
ences.

Schaerrer, representing students on the committee, is enthu-
siastic for the conference’s potential.

She said, “I think that this conference will be a great intro-
duction to and preparation for graduate presentations and thesis
presentations, as well as the spring conference being jointly
hosted by VMI and W&L.

According to a press release by the organizing committee,
students may present in a variety of ways, including traditional
oral presentations, posters, or creative work, such as multimedia
presentations.

_ In addition, there will also be a colloquium organized around se-
lected readings, in which both students and faculty will participate.

The conference organizers’ goal is to get around 100 stu-
dents involved in total. This will not only help to make this con-
ference a success, but will also serve as valuable feedback for the
spring 2005 conference that will be jointly hosted by VMI and
Washington and Lee, the National Conference on Undergraduate
Research.

Organizers and students alike will get a better feel for how to run
the conference smoothly and ensure participant satisfaction in order
to make the spring conference a success.

Funding for the conference is coming from the Williams
School, the Provost’s Office, the Dean of the College, and Phi Eta
Sigma.

The deadline for submitting colloquium reading proposals is
Friday, May 7, and panel presentation proposals are due Friday,
Sept. 25.

Interested students should contact Professor Robin LeBlanc
at leblancr@wlu.edu or x8612.

Don’t drink and ‘drive...
Call Traveller
540-458-8900

- Celebrate Spring Time
Mother’s Day ~ Father’s Day
Brides ~ Graduation
Witha

Relaxing Massage
by Kelly Harris

(540) 264-0063
Gift Certificates, Packages
Speaking Engagements
Certified through VA Board of Nursing
13Years Experience

FORALL OF YOUR DRY CLEANING NEEDS:

University
Cleaners

 

7 North Jefferson Street
463-3622

dry cleaning,
laundry, alterations

Happy St. Patrick's Day!

Remember to wear something green...
Drink something green while you’re at it.

ALL AUTO SERVICES
Brakes - Exhaust — Tune—up
A/C Services — Oil Change -

Engine & Transmission

Replacement/Rebuild
General Service & Repair
Car Wash In/Out & Detailing
U-Haul Truck & Trailer
Rentals

 

  Blue Ridge Auto Center

1973 Magnolia Ave.
Buena Vista, VA 24416
(540) 261-9377

DISCOUNT! !

federated
OPEN

Mon-Fri. 8 — 5pm
Sat. 8 ——N0on

 

.‘.

V

4‘

\_“

 

_,A

 

TUESDAY, MARCH 15,2004

 ’ ‘R1N<;+'1ttAiI’iii
AFF EDITORIAL
S.A.B. needs to get on the ball

The Students Activity Board
needs to do something, anything.
With only a few viable weeks left in
the school year, it’s about time to
bring some activity to campus.

What did the Executive Cornmit-
tee fund? An organization whose job it
is to hold money? The SAB is not a
bank. Spend it already.

Officers, where is your budget
going? At least the one thing the Stu-
dent Body can be grateful for is the
lack of bands from the “jam” genre.
It is a welcome break to not see the
overabundance of posters advertis-
ing noodle-dance-worthy music.

We would like to hear something,
though. Just bring some music to carn-
pus. Students want activity.

Contrary to popular belief, the Stu-
dent Activities Board did not contribute
supportto Mock Convention. The orga-
nization did, however, bring Karl Denson’s
Tiny Universe to campus this year. Yet is
that all we have to show for an entire
year’s worth of funding?

One band and a few miscellaneous
magicians and hypnotists are hardly wor-
thy of multiple tens of thousands in Ex-
ecutive Committee dollars.

The moral of the story is that the
Executive Committee must take a more
active role in making sure that organiza-
tions spend money more wisely. Over-
sight will be the crucial factor in deter-
mining whether or not the SAB will de-
liver a repeat performance next year. EC
oﬂicers, please watch our cash carefully.

We have faith that next year’s
committee will work hard on that
front.

 
  

“What we’re simply asking for is that
smoking be treated by Hollywood as
seriously as it treats offensive language.”

— Dr. Stanton Glantz of the University of
California at San Francisco, who thinks
smoking in a movie should merit an ‘R’ rating.

te of the Week

 

Editor in chief
Assistant Editor

News Editor

Opinions Editor

Asst. Opinions Editor
Arts & Life Editor
Asst. Arts & Life Editor
Photography Editor
Asst. Sports Editors

Jeb Brooks

Kyle Wass

Erin Julius

Caley Anderson
Anne Finley
Megan Morgan
Chris Lauderrnan
Cody Gabbard
John Hyland

Chad Kiewiet de Jonge
Emily Edwards

Kelly Jo Larsen
Alexa Moutevalis
Kate Zawyrucha
Sarah Beth Campbell
Vanessa Amess
Aubrey Miner

Production Assistants

Copy Editors

Paul Seifert
David Seifert
Stuart Presnell
Rob Rain

Business Manager
Asst. Business Mgr.
Circulation Director
Distribution Dir

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee Univer-
sity, Lexington, Virginia The Rirtg—n0n Phi is a member of
The Publications Board, but is otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible sub-
missions and letters. All submissions must be e—mailed
to phi@wlu.edu or in the University Center mailbox by
5 p.m. Friday to appear in the following week’s edition.
The Ring-tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions
for content and length. Letters and columns do not
necessarily reflect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi
Editorial Board. Advertising does not reﬂect the opin-
ions of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper
observw current court deﬁnitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
University Commons Room. 341
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, Wrginia 24450
Telephone: (540) 458-4060
Fax: (540) 458-4059
Email: phi@wlu.edu
Subscription rate $40

THE RING-TUMPHI   “

  

CAiErANuarsoN
OPINIONSEDIIOR

mn m

PINIONS  

PAGE 3

Abstinence—only sex ed dangerous, unrealistic

 

STDS ARE MESSY ENOUGH. It’s doubtfulwhetherthejuniorhighschoolstuderrtswho createdthisposterwillaauallybe abstinent, andwhentheyhave sex,theywon’tbeprepared.

Let’s be honest with ourselves, shall we? There are teens out there
who, no matter what we tell them, are going to have sex. It’s a fact.
We’re college students, aren’t we? We were there not too long ago,
and we know what it’s like. Those of us who went to public schools
also know what “standardized” sex education is like, with its references
to diseases, anatomy, and above all its focus on prevention and protec-
tion. Abstinence is certainly a part of this standard sex ed. With all the
forms of birth control and prevention, students are already taught in
these programs that nothing but abstinence guarantees safety from
disease and unwanted pregnancy.

Yet, despite the fact that the Victorian Era ended more than a hun-
dred years ago, there are those who argue that references to anything
but abstinence in sex education are either immoral or harmful to the

adolescents who hear ‘it’. ‘They believe that telling students “just say‘

no” is the best way to stop the spread of STDs and to keep the adoles-
cents in question from having unwanted babies. These individuals,
who are frequently members of highly conservative Christian groups,
think that educating teens in the “practical” aspects
of sex only leads to an enablement of what they con-
sider to be immoral behavior.

Whether or not premarital sex is immoral is some-
thing I won’t discuss on a college campus, but please
understand this- no one is arguing for the removal of abstinence from
current sex ed programs. Nor is anyone trying to say that abstinence
isn’t, in fact, the best way to halt STDs and prevent pregnancies. All I
wish to get across here is that programs that talk about abstinence, and
only abstinence, are put forth despite an overwhelming amount of evi-
dence.

The Center for Disease Control, the National STD Prevention Con-
ference, the National Institute of Child Health and Human Develop-
ment, as well as an overwhelming majority of the world’s health profes-
sionals all agree- abstinence-only programs are more than likely worse
for teens than standardized sex education, and are certainly no better.

Let’s take the most recent study, shall we? A joint Columbia-Yale
study looked at over 12,000 adolescents aged 12-18 divided into two
groups. One group took an abstinent sex education course, and all of
them pledged at the end not to engage in premarital sex. The other
group received the standard sex education course and made no such
pledge.

The results? STD and unwanted pregnancy rates for each group
were about the same, with the students who pledged abstinence having
a statistically insignificant increase in STD rates and pregnancies over
the non-pledgers. The more disturbing statistic is that 59 percent of
males who did not pledge abstinence used a condom during sex; only

PHOTO oouruasr or ' timol9on.oom

40 percent of male pledgers used a condom. On the female side, STD
testing was used as the standard, and there 28 percent of female non-
pledgers were tested for STDS in the previous year, compared to 14
percent of female pledgers. The only category in which the pledgers
could be construed as being “better” is in the incidences of actual
premarital sex. 99 percent of non-pledgers engaged in premarital sex,
whereas 88 percent of those who pledged not to engage in such sex,
did.

What does the creator of this unbiased, scientific study have to
say about his data? “It’s difficult to simultaneously prepare for sex
and say you’re not going to have sex. The message is really simple:
‘Just say no’ may work in the short term but doesn’t work in the long
term.” This from Peter Bearman, the Sociology chair of Columbia Uni-
versity, who conducted the study along with Hannah Bruckner, from
Yale.

And what do I draw as the main point from this study, besides the
fact that teens who promise to abstain are mostly liars? Abstinence-
only educations actually persuaded only 12 percent of those
who pledged not to engage in premarital sex to, in fact, not
engage in premarital sex. The other 88 percent were aban-
doned without an education in prevention, sexual health,
birth control, .and the facts of life in general. Is this the
way we want to conduct sex education in this country? I hope not.

Even President Bush, one of the more conservative Republican Presi-
dents of the last 100 years, agrees. During his most recent State of the
Union address, he outlined his plan to halt the, rampant spread of STDs
in Africa. His plan is based on a successful Ugandan program that
emphasizes marital fidelity, disease education, and use of condoms,
ALONG WITH abstinence theory. Whatever they may say about do-
mestic sex ed, the fact is that the Bush administration, when it wants
practical results related to STD prevention, relies on a synthesis of
abstinence and technical education. And who’s to blame the President
for that?

So let’s get real- why would anyone support abstinence—only edu-
cation? Beats me. Adherence to an antiquated morality, perhaps, or
maybe a desperate clinging to attitudes about sex that prevailed in the
1800s. Either way, the blind “just say no” strategy is foolish. It ignores
certain realities, namely, that teens are going to have sex. You don’t
need a Ph.D in medicine to tell you that. The best program for America’s
teens is to tell them why abstinence is their best course, but then to also
let them know about their options should they choose to engage in
premarital sex.

Knowledge is power. Sticking your head in the sand and hoping for
the best is not the way to knowledge.

Negative ads typical of Republican pols

I watched some advertisements on the
Bush—Cheney reelection site today. President
Bush peered out from the Windows Media
Player box and told me that “Now we face a
choice. We can go forward with confidence
and resolve and hope...we can continue to
work to create jobs, reform education, and

lower the cost of health care.” —~—~——~A—.—~»~—
If President Bush has been OUTINLEFTFIELD
.§ABECHAPMAN,‘96_

working to create jobs, he
doesn’t have much to show for
it. The last three White House
job projections were embarrassed by the
harsh reality. People have been dropping out
of the labor force, as average unemployment
time has ballooned to 15 or 20 weeks. The
result is that the Labor Force Participation
Rate has decreased; that is, people have al-
together stopped looking for jobs since the
job market is so tough. Since the unemploy-
ment rate only counts people actively look-
ing forjobs, it has hovered in the mid 5 per-
cent range. If we include the people who have
dropped out of the labor force in just the last
2 years, however, the unemployment rate
would jump to 7.4 percent. Every few months

ter new fields.

school. Well,

the White House produces another rosy job
projection, saying that its tax—cuts will only
take some time to produce job growth. Well,
they’ve said it before, and they’re saying it
again. And it isn’t true. The President of
Goldman Sachs has said that none of their
current models predict what is happening
now: a jobless recovery.
George W. Bush has old so-
lutions for new problems.
John Kerry is ready to think
on his feet. Like extending
support for workers so that their families
do not lose health insurance from their
smaller—business employees, or while
they’re between jobs. John Kerry wants to
increase the funding to train workers to en-

While the advertisement is claiming that
one of Bush’s messages is to “reform edu-
cation,” children on-screen are shown frol-
icking briefly in front of a nice suburban
since Bush massively

‘underfunded his own education program, I
think that his reputation as the “Education
President” will ring hollow.

Lower the cost of health care, eh?
Surely Bush did not mean to lower the cost
for the taxpayer, because the bill he signed
into law this year was not much more than
a windfall for health—insurance and phar-
maceutical companies, companies which
were quite profitable before the Republicans
decided to give them 600 billion dollars or
more of our money over the next ten years.

Let me remind President Bush that you
don’t shrink government unless you shrink
spending. You and the Republican leader-
ship have managed to shrink government
revenue, but you’ve gone nuts with deficit
spending. I am infinitely pleased that mod-
erate and conservative Republicans alike
defected from the Congressional party lead-
ership on late Friday night by approving a
budget that would take greater pains to
bring the deficit under control, while mak-
ing it harder for Bush to make his tax cuts
permanent. Perhaps the more sensible Re-
publicans will permit Bush to cut taxes
again only after he shows that he can cre-
ate a balanced budget. Four years later,
we’re still waiting.

 

  

PAGE 4

’nrl<ix-;::.a.tl>ra;

  

TUESDAY, MARCH 15, 2004

Bush’s newest immigration policy less than enlightened

PHOTO CDURTEY or viamtefoxmgnix

PART OF THE PROBLEM? President George W. Bush, whose immigration policies might be false compassion is seen here with Vincente Fox, who presides over Mexico, which sends more immigrants to the U.S. than any other country..

How could I have been so blinded? In
January, I wrote a piece praising Bush’s new
immigration policies, believing they were
truly beneficial to immigrants, but they are
not. I initially applauded these changes, but
now the more I think about his policies, the
more I believe them to be nothing more than
a half—assed attempt at appearing compas-
sionate (please excuse my language but cor-
diality would not get my point
across as well).

Bush would have it appear as
though his policies would make
it easier for illegal immigrants to
live in this country because he is allowing
them to come forward and unveil themselves
without incurring any penalties. But it’s all
political rhetoric that merely aims to appeal
to the immigrant population, especially the
Hispanics, without offending his conserva-
tive constituents. Bush’s immigration policy
is deceitful, cruel, and unfair to the immigrants
whom he claims to help.

The policyallows illegal immigrants to re-
ceive a temporary legal status after which pe-
riod they can try to stay in the United States
permanently, but that will be discouraged. In-

 

stead, immigrants will receive financial incen-
tives to return home or else they will have to
compete with outside immigrants for a limited
number of immigration slots.

In essence, the U.S. would allow immi-
grants to come here, remain here to work for a
period of time, and then strongly encourage
them to leave and return home. Where is the
sense in that logic? If these immigrants had

the same opportunities that

are available in the U.S. in

their native countries, they

would not have come here
I in the first place. The ma-
jority of the immigrants come to America to
escape poverty, political instability, and other
problems in their country, so why would they
want to go back? To ask them to kindly leave
America’s premises would mean that we were
merely using them for their hard and cheap
labor until their services were no longer re-
quired. That is as unkind as bringing a little
boy into a candy store and saying that he
cannot eat any of the candy——he can only
look. Likewise, Bush’s policies would let an
immigrant see all of the sweet treasures that
America has to offer but not give him the

chance to enjoy any of them. Not only would
the adult not have the chance to enjoy these
fruits, but neither would his children or the
younger members of his family. To want some-
thing that you see everyday but never have
the ability to attain it is possibly one of the
most debilitating forms of deprivation.

Not only does Bush’s policy cruelly tease
immigrants with things they can never have,
it also removes their only form of advantage
in this country: anonymity. Being recognized
by the American government seems wonder-
ful on the surface, but in reality, it completely
destroys an immigrant’s only chance to actu-
ally survive here. Once an immigrant is iden-
tified by the American government, he will be
on the tax roll and he will be tracked by immi-
gration officials, whereas before he could
make money without being taxed and stay
in this country as long as possible. It seems
unfair to allow these immigrants to make
money without paying taxes, but let’s not for-
get the wages that they are earning. These
are not $40K—a—year salaries. They are work-
ing for the lowest of the low wages and are
able to somehow get by with so many finan-
cial restrictions, but if they were forced to pay

taxes, would they still be able to subsist? And
how would they benefit from the taxes that they
would be forced to pay? Will they get their
share of the Social Security benefits? No, be-
cause they will not be living here long enough
to receive what they put into the American
economy.

Americans cannot support such measures
and must push for more tolerant policies if they
are true Americans. America is composed of
people from all over the world and was founded
by immigrants so immigration is the founda-
tion of its existence. Just because we have
made it as a thriving society doesn’t mean that
we do not require the assistance of others. To
believe that we are completely independent is
a dangerously stupid notion that will only
alienate us from valuable resources found in
people from other countries.

“As a nation that values immigration and
depends on immigration, we should have im-
migration laws that work and make us proud,”
Bush said. But I don’t feel so proud as an
American. The policies are a great example of
good political rhetoric, but we need to do much
more before we can have an immigration policy
that we can be proud of.

Write opinions for the Phi.’ ,

The Ring-tum Phi is currently seeking to hire new opinions writers! If you’re interested in applying for
an Op/Ed position, please e—mail phi@wlu.edu, or e—mail the Opinions Editor at andersonc@wlu.edu.

 Student Discounts

 

Project Ilnriznn

Emergency Hotline

I 54Q—463—2594

AVEWIIIIII 24 lIlIlll‘8 II day. 7 days 3 WIIIIK.

Every day, people have
birthdays. On March 17,
Brett Kirwan is one of them.

Congratulations, Brett.

  
  

(3 ma. twee»:-;:£ Rm»: L

$"’::.m:e3:’Ai  M

 

l'_eXJ'ngtor1, VA 24450

540-461-3447

 

309 N.  St.

 

 

  

JOHNHYlAl\D
A$IlANl‘SPOR"lSEDIl0R
mm m

TUESDAY, MARCH 15,2004

'lllE Rlxls-rpl»lPl-ll

 

PORTS

PAGE 5

Womens’ lacrosse picks up two wins during past week

Generals defeat Sweet
Briar, Franklin & Marshall

Senior captain wants
to stick with lacrosse
for the rest of her life

BY KIM GUNST
STAFF WRITER

Many athletes spend only a short period of

— _' their lives playing sports, often competing only

throughout high school or college. But some de-
cide they want to be involved with their sport for-
ever. .

Senior lacrosse captain Kelly Taffe has already
made the latter decision. “I knew I wanted to pur-
sue [lacrosse] as soon as I picked up a stick,” she
said. “I love lacrosse and want to spend the rest of
my life either playing or coaching it.”

Since Taffe’s father is W&L’s Director of Spe-
cial Events, she’s been familiar with the school for
a long time. It was actually the school’s lacrosse
camp that became Taffe’s deciding factor for at-
tending W&L. Coaches Jan Hathom and Laurie
Stagnitta saw her talent then and convinced her to
come here.

Taffe, who has been playing lacrosse since the
6th grade, simply cannot get enough of the sport.
She spent her sophomore summer playing lacrosse
in Adelaide, Australia for the Sturt Lacrosse Club.

This summer, Taffe will coach lacrosse and ﬁeld
hockey camps at UVA. In August, she leaves for
London to play and coach lacrosse for a year. When

she returns to the U.S., she plans on coaching on"

becoming an athletic director someday.

But for now, Taffe is focused on helping the
lacrosse team in her last season at W&L. She fore-
sees success on the ﬁeld and says she “can’t im-
aging anything but
spectacular things hap-
pening.”

Taffe, whose point and
goal totals last season

I love lacrosse and
want to spend the
rest of my life

either  or were the second-high-
, , ” est season totals in
C0aCh1I1g 1t- school history, was also
KELLYTAFFE the captain of the

General’s ﬁeld hockey
team. She ﬁnished holding the school’s records
for career goals ( 15) and points (34), as well as earn-
ing All—ODAC, All-State And All-Region honors.

However, Taffe says that managing two sports
hasn’t always been easy. “Athletes make a lot of
sacriﬁces at this school, and it is really hard to keep
up with everything,” she said.

It’s the quality time spent her teammates and
co-captains that Taffe believes makes it all worth it
in the end—that and her two ODAC titles and bids
to the NCAA.

And just two days ago, Taffe recorded three
more goals for the Generals during their win against

' ' » Franklin & Marshall. But at the end of the day,

Taffe recognizes her teammates for her achieve-
ments in W&L lacrosse.

“Any accomplishment I’ve made has been the
result of a team effort, starting with the coach,”
Taffe said looking back on the past three years.
“No individual can take credit when it’s a team
sport.”

BY CAMERON GARNER
STAFF \Y/RITER

The hits just keep on corrling. The Generals’
scoring woes continued Saturday as they notched
just three goals in the second half in an attempt to
rebound from allowing 5 unanswered in the first.
The statistics don’t accurately reﬂect the outcome
of the game. As usual, co—captain Senior goalie

DEVOTION. Senior lacrosse captain Kelly Taffe wants to devote her life to playing and
coaching lacrosse. This pas.‘ week, she helped lead the Generals to two wins. The team

defeated Sweet Briar and Franklin 8C Marshall.

COURTESY SPORTS lNFORMA'I'.(ON

BY SARAH BLOOM
SENIOR STAFF WRITER

It was ‘a week of double
sweet success for the W&L
women’s lacrosse team. The Gen-
erals took home victories against
Sweet Briar and Franklin and
Marshall.

The women started off the
week strong when they played
Sweet Briar on Wednesday. Se-
nior Kelly Taffe led the team, scor-
ing four goals and assisting on
two others, to a win 12-2. The
Vixens scored once in the first
half, but the Generals proved the
stronger team, leaving half-time
with a seven point lead.

Also adding to the Gener-
als twelve points were senior
Lee Wheeler, freshman
Mallory Lobisser, and fresh-
man Avery Lovejoy. Senior
Joanna Perini made two saves
at the net.

“We were very confident
going in to the game,” said
Lobisser. Despite a clear win by
the Generals. She said, “I think
they surprised us a bit. Their
defense played well and they
were much improved from last
year.”

The stronger defense was
a good warm-up for the

General’s next game against
Franklin and Marshall on Sat-
urday. \lVlth only 28:01 left in the
game, the General’s found them-
selves trailing the Diplomats 7-
3.

“We were biting our nails
at half-time,” said Lobisser.
“but we never lost confidence
and we knew this was our
game. The juniors and seniors
played them two years ago and
lost so we were there to win
this year.”

Senior Kelly Taffe started the
Generals on their comeback when
she scored off of an assist by
sophomore Amanda Strickler.
Strickler and Taffe led the gener-
als in scoring with three goals
each.

Sophomores Rachel Wallick
and Kate Lester each also
scored to position the Generals
only one point behind F&M.
After half-time, Washington and
Lee quickly pulled ahead to a 7-
2 victory with goals by Taffe,
Strickler and junior Erin
Rathbone.

Perini again stood at the net,
this time making 15 saves.

The women next host
Guilford College at 4:00 PM on
Tuesday. The aim to keep the
momentum going for another
win.

Stayin’ on the St. Joseph’s‘bandwagon

BY RYAN GRITTER
STAFF \X/RITER

Normally at this time of year, we’re talking about
two or three teams that are clearly the top contend-
ers going into the NCAA Tournament. What makes
this particular year so interesting though is the fact
that there are at least eight teams that have a legiti-
mate shot at winning the title. Though it may sur-
prise many after their recent loss at Xavier, I still
feel that St. Joseph ’s has the best shot at winning
the title this year.

The critics have much to say about St. Joe’s;
yes they are in a weak conference, yes they have
only average inside players, and yes they did get
spanked by Xavier in the conference tournament,
but I feel that if anything this loss will help the
Hawks. The loss they suffered revealed weak-
nesses that they need to address namely the inside
game and the need for guards Jamir Nelson and
Delonte West to penetrate. It has become clear
that this team relies almost entirely on the play of
Nelson and West, but jumpshooting doesn ’t win
championships. Learning of their weaknesses be-

Ansel Sanders played well for the Generals, allow-
ing just 5 goals and totaling 10 saves in net. The
defense was strong again, shutting down F & M’s
extra—man unit all four times they took the ﬁeld.
The Generals won the faceoff battle convincingly,
controlling 70% of the draws. They had a sparse 3
minutes of penalties as opposed to F & M’s 9;
unfortunately, the scoring touch, escaped the Gen-
erals until the game was all but decided.

fore the tournament gives them a chance to make
the necessary adjustments. The loss also relieves
them of the pressure of an undefeated season, which
is always underrated by media and fans. When a
team has a run like that going, they can become so
tense that a loss is just what they need to loosen
up and play at an even higher level. The fact that
they are in a weak conference, the Atlantic 10, I feel
is not enough to consider them a fraud. For one,
their conference isn’t even all that weak, Xavier
and Dayton are perennial tournament teams and
Temple and George Washington are both solid
teams. I’m not saying it’s the SEC or ACC but it’s
not like they’ve been playing high school teams all
season and are going to be shocked at the level of
competition in the tourney. As for the other elite
teams, I feel there isn’t another team with as good
ofa claim as St. Joe’s.

Kentucky and Duke are both very safe picks;
and if Kentucky beats Mississippi State for the SEC
championship, they are pretty much a lock for a nurn—
ber one seed. However, Duke suffered a recent loss
to Georgia Tech and Kentucky has not exactly blown
away the competition (except Vanderbilt. . ..but then,

Frustrated by recent inefficiency, the of-
fense began to show signs of life only during
the last stages of the game, finally making good
on the exorbitant number of penalty minutes
they were handed. Junior attackman Gavin
Molinelli tallied the Generals first score in an
extra—man opportunity off a feed from el cuerpo
(the Body for those of you who don’t habla
espaﬁol) with 4:09 left in the third. From there,

who doesn’t beat Vandy lately?). Stanford is over-

rated and plays in a conference that is almost at the
same level as the Atlantic 10. Over the past couple
of years they have shown a tendency to come up
short in the tournament — and this year’s team is in
no way comparable to the 2002 team led by the Collins
twins. Pittsburgh is still a bit of an unknown; how-
ever a victory over UConn would certainly give
them a legitimate claim, but UConn with an injured
Emeka Okafor if at all. Having said that, if Okafor can
play at almost full strength throughout the touma—
ment, UConn is deﬁnitely a contender - but without
their best player (arguably college basketball’s best
player) they don’t have much of a chance. Okla-
homa State wants a number one seed, but they have
been upset by average teams like BYU and Mis-
souri. Oklahoma State will get knocked off in the
tournament and probably will not get the number
one seed, since they still have to get past Texas
again to win the Big 12. Mississippi State is a bit
hard to predict,

ST. JosEl>H’s See page 6

Mens’ lacrosse scoring problems persist, drop one to #15 Franklin & Marshall

the Generals went stagnant again until around
2 minutes to go in the fourth, when Senior
midfielder Dustin Martin hooked up with
Molinelli twice in extra—man opportunities. The
Generals, despite outshooting the Diplomats 30-
29, were slowed by F & M’s junior goalie Mike
Sartorius’ 13 saves.

The Generals return to action at home against
Colorado College on Wednesday at 3:30.

THIS WEEK’s SCHEDULE

Tuesday, March 16 Wednesday, March 17 Thursday, March 18 Friday, March 19 Saturday, March 20 Sunday, March 21
O W Tennis vs. Randolph- O Baseball vs. Roanoke-- O M Tennis at Lynchburg- O Track at VCU Invita- O Baseball vs. Eastern O W Tennis vs.
Macon Women ’s, at 3:00 -3:00 tional--TBA Mennonite (DH )--12:00 Muhlenberg--10:00
Roanoke--4:00 OM Lax vs. Colorado O Baseball at O Golf at Golden Isle OM Lax vs. Mary Wash- O WI.ax vs. Colby (at
OW Lax vs. Guilfor -- College--3:30 Shenandoah--4:00 Invitational--TBA ington--1 :30 University of Richmond)-
4:00 O W Tennis vs. Sweet O M Swim at NCAA’ -- O WLax vs. Mary Wash- -12:30
Briar, at Rand0lph- All Day ington--1 :30 O Golf at Golden Isle
Macon--4:00 - O Track hosts W&L Invitational--TBA
Invitational--9:30 O M Swim at NCAA’s--All
O M Tennis vs. Mary Day
Washington--2:00

O W Tennis vs.
Kalamazoo--9:30; vs.
Agnes Scott--2:30; vs.
Mary Washington--2:30

O Track at VCU Invita-
tional--TBA

O Golf at Golden Isle
Invitational--TBA

O M Swim at NCAA’s--All
Day

 

PAGE 6

OS I-E ING-TUM

STRIDE. Junior Steve Chambers runs in an event during this past weekend
at \W8CL’S Track and Field Invitational.

W&L hosts track
and field invitational

W&L SPORTS RELEASE

LEXINGTON, Va. — The Washington and Lee men’s and
women’s track‘ teams kicked off their outdoor seasons by hosting the
2004 W&L Track and Field Invitational on Saturday at Wilson Field.

On the women’s side the Generals finished fourth, while
Susquehanna took top honors with 156 points The Crusaders were
followed by Roanoke (97), Mary Washington (80), W&L (54.5),
Sewanee (49), Bridgewater (43.5), Southern Virginia (3 8), Christopher
Newport (26) and Berea (11). In men’s competition W&L placed sev-
enth, while Susquehanna won the invitational with 165 points. The
Crusaders were followed by DeSales (78), Sewanee (72), Berea (59),

Mary Washington (53), Roanoke (44), W&L (30), Bridgewater (29.5), -

Southern Virginia (19.5), Christopher Newport (6) and William Penn
(1).

The W&L women’s team was led by sophomore Mary Christo-
pher (Fort Lauderdale, Fla./Cardinal Gibbons) and freshman Sara
Behmerwohld (San Juan Capistrano, Calif./Dana Hills). Christopher
won the 800 meter run with a time of 2:26.37, while Behmerwohld won
the 400 meter hurdles with a school record time of 68.65.

Sophomore Betsy Frayer (Grand Rapids, Mich./East Grand Rap-
ids) emerged as a top W&L distance runner with third place in thel500
meter run (5209.76), while’ junior Emily Barker (Clifton, Va./Mount
Vernon) led the throwers with points in three events. Barker took
third in the javeliri (107’5”), third in the shot put (36’5”) and sixth in
the discus (102’3”).

On the men’s side junior Chris Walker (Centreville, Va./Paul IV)
was W&L’s lone event winner, taking top honors in the shot put with
a distance of 43 feet, 10 inches. Junior Nathan Johnson (Lexington,
VaJRockbridge County) placed second in the 1500 meter run (4204.30),
while senior Rusty Meyer (Dallas, Texas/Jesuit College Prep) took
fourth in the 800 meter run with a time of 2:02.76.

Both W&L.squads return to action on Fri., March 19 at the VCU
invitational.

ST. JOSEPH’S From page 5

they’ve played some phenomenal games against good teams and
played close with some poor ones. Like Kentucky, if they win the SEC
they’ll be all but assured a number one seed, but they already lost to
Kentucky earlier in the season and I feel they could do so again.

The possibilities are almost endless, and as a bitter Florida/Michi-
gan fan, I have no feelings toward any particular team that affect my
judgment. J amir Nelson has been called T.J. Ford with a jump Shot,
and T.J. Ford carried his team to the semiﬁnals last year. Give him a
jumper and Delonte West by his side and Texas could have won it all
last year. Furthermore, there is no team with the skills capable of
exploiting this weakness except UConn if Okafor is healthy. There
are no real wrong answers, but I feel that St. J oe’s has the best
chance of all these teams to win it all with spectacular veteran leader-
ship, two great scorers and the pressure of going undefeated lifted
from their backs.

House for Rent
In The Country

4 Bedrooms
2 Baths

Lease goes from June 15, 2004 to
June 15, 2005

1.5 miles on Rt. 60 East

“Jaws”

Daytime Phone: 540463-5383
Nighttime Phone: 540-463-5654

  

 

TUESDAY, MARCH 15, 2004

Generals’ baseball remains perfect
in ODAC against Randolph-Macon

BY JOHN HYLAND
ASSISTANT SPORTS EDITOR

The W&L baseball team re-
bounded from a tough non-con-
ference loss last Wednesday. by
sweeping Randolph-Macon on
Saturday to remain perfect in the
ODAC, improving their record to
10-4, 4-0 ODAC

The Generals faced Pied-
mont College on Wednesday. The
game was scoreless through two
innings when Piedmont was able
to get two runs off Generals
starter Mike Wert in the second.
Piedmont would go on to score
seven runs over the next three
innings to take a 9-0 lead. Wert
surrendered 8 runs over 4 2/3 in-
nings -and suffered the loss to
even his record at 2-2 on the sea-

son. The Generals bats did not
fair any better. Piedmont starter
Austin Denvew allowed only two
hits and zero runs over eight in-
nings. All of the Generals offense
came by way of a two-out, three
run homer by sophomore ﬁrst
baseman Taylor McConnell. But
it was too little, too late and the
Generals ﬁnished on the short
side of a 10-3 score.

W&L resumed their ODAC
schedule on Saturday by host-
ing the Yellow Jackets. The Gen-
erals sent their ace Peter Dean out
to the mound. The senior
lefthander got all of the offense
he would need in a three run sec-
ond inning, capped by senior
shortstop Austin Allain’s two
run double. The Generals scored
insurance runs in the fourth and

fifth innings to round out the
scoring for a 5-1 win. Dean
pitched the complete seven in-
nings, allowing two hits and just
one uneamed run. He improved
his record to a perfect 5-0 on the
year and with the victory tied the
ODAC career wins record.
Sophomore second baseman
Scott Gosselink joined Allain as
the only Generals to have multi-
hit games.

The nightcap proved to be
even easier than the first game
for the Generals. The game was
close after four innings, with
W&L having assumed a 2-0 lead.
The Generals’ bats came alive in
the ﬁfth, however, as they scored
six runs to break open the game.
The inning was led by
McConnell’s RBI double and jun-

Mens’ tennis dominates Salisbury,
Eighth ranked Generals win 6-1, 7-0 to improve record to 9-4

BY ALLISON PERRY
CONTRIBUTING EDITOR

The Washington and Lee
men’s tennis team dominated
Salisbury and Denison this Sat-
urday at home with a 6-1 win over
Salisbury and a 7-0 win over
Denison. The 8th nationally
ranked Generals improved their
record to 9-4, 4-0 in the ODAC.
Salisbury is now 2-2 overall.
Saturday’s match was the first of
the season for Denison, putting
them at 0-1 overall.

Junior Paul McClure led the

‘Generals in the match against

Salisbury with a 6-2, 6-3 win over
senior Nick Peel in the No. 1
singles match. Peel is ranked 27th
nationally while McClure is
ranked 21st.

Sophomore David Shay de-
feated senior Scott Mayberry 6-
3, 6-2 in the No. 2 spot.

In the No. 3 singles match,
Salisbury senior David

Finlayson had a 6-4, 6-7 (2) (10-8)
win over freshman Jon Malooly.

Senior Graham Nix won his
match against sophomore Tyler
Robinson at No. 4, 6-3, 6-1. In
the No. 5 spot, senior K.C.
Schaefer defeated junior Jaime

sophomore Chris Kimmel also
won their match with an 8-5 vic-
tory over Cook and Engles at N o.
3.

In the match against
Denison, McClure started off in
the No. 1 spot again, shutting

Engles 6-1, 6-2. down his oppo-
SeniorAuStin Kim nent, senior Cory
rounded out the Stewart, 6-0, 6-0.
singles play with a Shay defeated
6-2, 6-1 win over junior Ethan
senior Jacob Cook Branum 6-0, 6-2 in
in the No.6 match. the No. 2 match.
In doubles In the No. 3 Spot,

play, McClure and
sophomore Jor-
dan Eichenberger
teamed up to de-.
feat the 10th na-
tionally ranked
doubles pair of
Peel and
Mayberry 8-5 at No. 1. Kim and
Nix shut down their opponents,
Finlayson and Robinson, 8-0 in
the No. 2 spot. Schaefer and

 

RTS INFORMATION

Nix Shut down
sophomore Eric
Messick, 6-0, 6-0.
Schaefer also
won his match
against sopho-
more Nick
Pellegrin at No. 4,
6—0,6-2.
In the No. 5 and 6 singles
matches, both Kim and sopho-
more Charles Anderson shut

ior leftfielder Chris Chaplin’s
two-run triple. The Generals
scored three more runs in the
seventh inning to take an 11-0
lead.-The Yellow Jackets would
score one meaningless run in the
ninth and the game finished 11-
l . Senior righthander Dan Kagey
started on the mound and pitched
eight shutout innings, improving
his record to 3-0 on the year. Of-
fensively, freshman designated
hitter David Miller went 3 for 5
with two runs scored. Gosselink

and McConnell each went 2 for 4 '

with two runs and two RBIs
apiece, and senior rightﬁelder
Bryan Mulhem ﬁnished 2 for 4
with a run and an RBI. The Gen-
erals continue their ODAC
schedule with a home game
against Roanoke on Wednesday.

Denison

down their opponents, sopho-
mores Noah Arenstein and Chris-
topher Henderson, respectively.

In the doubles matches, Kim
and Nix shut down Stewart and
Branum, 8-0 at No. 1. McClure
and Eichenberger teamed up
again for an 8-3 victory over
Messik and Arenstein at No. 2.
Schaefer and Kimmel also de-
feated their opponents, Pellegrin
and Henderson, 8-1 in the No. 3
spot.

The Generals travel to
Lynchburg on Thursday for a
conference match-up at 3:00 p.m.
The Hornets are currently 1-1 and
ranked second in the ODAC be-
hind the Generals.

Washington and Lee then
hosts the 9th nationally ranked
Mary Washington Eagles on Sat-
urday for a 2:00 p.m. contest. This
match will be an important one
for the Generals after losing to
Mary Washington 1-6 last year.
The Eagles are currently 6-2.

Women’s Lacrosse

1. Washington and Lee (8)
2. Roanoke

3. Randolph-Macon

4. Virginia Wesleyan

5. Lynchburg

6. Sweet Briar

7. Bridgew iter

8. Guilford

9. Hollins

Baseball

1. Virginia Wesleyan (9)
2. Bridgewater (1)

3. Guilford

4. Washington and Lee
5. Lynchburg

6. Hampden-Sydney

7. Eastern Mennonite
8. Emory & Henry

9. Roanoke

10. Randolph-Macon

ODAC announces spring sports preseason polls

Generals picked to win womens’ lacrosse, mens’ and womens’ tennis

W&L SPORTS RELEASE

Men’s Tennis

1. Washington and Lee (7)
2. Lynchburg

3. Hampden-Sydney

4. Emory & Henry

5. Virginia Wesleyan

6. Roanoke

7. Eastern Mennonite

8. Bridgewater

9. Randolph-Macon

Golf

1. Guilford (8)

2. Bridgewater

3. Washington and Lee
4. Randolph-Macon

5 . Hampden-Sydney

6. Virginia Wesleyan
7.'Roanoke

8. Lynchburg

9. Emory & Henry

SALEM, Va. — The Old Dominion Athletic Conference armounced its spring sports preseason polls as voted on by the
league’s coaches in each particular sport.

Washington and Lee was chosen to ﬁnish first in women’s lacrosse, men’s tennis and women’s tennis. Additionally, the
Generals’ men’s lacrosse team‘ was picked third, the baseball team was picked fourth, the golf team was picked third, and the womeifs
and men’s track teams were picked fourth and fifth, respectively.

Below are the 2004 ODAC Preseason Spring Sports polls (first place votes in parenthesis):

Women’s Tennis

1. Washington and Lee (11)
2. Hollins

3. Sweet Briar

4. Bridgewater

5. Emory & Henry

6. Randolph-Macon

7. Roanoke

8. Virginia Wesleyan

9. Eastern Mennonite

10. Guilford

1 1 . Lynchburg

12. Randolph-Macon Woman's

Men’s Track

1. Bridgewater (2)

2. Lynchburg (3)

3. Eastern Mennonite
4. Roanoke

5. Washington and Lee

Men’s Lacrosse

1, Lynchburg (4)

2. Hampden-Sydney ( l )
3. Washington and Lee
4. Roanoke (2)

5. Virginia Wesleyan

6. Randolph-Macon

7. Guilford

Women’s Track

1. Roanoke (2)

2. Lynchburg (3)

3. Eastern Mennonite
4. Washington and Lee
5. Bridgewater

    

1~800«648- -38%? I wvm.:?smnrcL(om

Support Generals
Athletics

9

Fraternities -- Sororities

Clubs -- Student Groups
Earn $1,000-$2,000 this semester with a proven
CampusFundraiser 3 hour fundraising event.
free programs make fundraising easy with no
risks. Fundraising dates are ﬁlling quickly, so get
with the program!
CampusFundraiser at (888) 923-3238, or visit

mmmm 

It works.

Contact

Our

-:E"U

  

L

¥’/ ..

 

PAGE 7

Depression is a rising trend on col-
lege campuses across the nation. Stud-
ies from the American'Mental Health As-
sociation and the National Institute of
Mental Health show that between 10-15%
of all college students are diagnosed with
depression. Depression can be a terrify-
ing battle to fight alone, but there is help
available to W&L students 24 hours a
day.

“Arts LIFE

 Washington and Lee student struggles with depression

Thankfully, Matthew did seek help.
First he turned -to W&L Counseling Ser-
vices. Though he had been seeing a coun-
selor earlier in the year, he realized that
he had not as fully worked through things
as he thought he had. The Health Center
is also “pretty phenomenal,” according
to Matthew. “When I was really at rock
bottom I would go there at odd hours of

the night. I didn’t

Freshman Matthew
Loar hails from Littleton,
Colorado, a town of

MORETHANMAINSTIKEAM
KELLY Jo LARSEN ‘O5

feel safe alone at
night.” Matthew
worked through

“middle class, white col-
lar suburbia,” according
to Loar, but more widely known for its
school shooting in 1999. Matthew came
to W&L after applying early decision, but

the college transition did not go quite as‘

smoothly as he had hoped. In early Feb-
ruary, Matthew was formally diagnosed
with depression.

The depression presented itself in
many ways: Matthew slept over nine
hours a night, but found he couldn’t make
it through a day without a nap. He would
go long periods without eating. “The
stomach says its hungry but trying to eat
is like trying to swallow an orange,
whole,” Matthew recalls. Then there were
the suicidal thoughts. Matthew finally
decided to seek help after a late night trip
to the Cadaver footbridge——a trip he had
no intentions of returning from.

his depression
with the help of
both the Counseling Center and the Stu-
dent Health Center. He is now taking an-
tidepressants, continues to see a coun-
selor, and has started the long battle to a
complete recovery. Now that he has been
emotionally stabilized, “its time to figure
out what caused it [the depression].” The
unpacking process has begun,” Loar
said.

Depression can have many triggers in-
cluding a hereditary predisposition or
major emotional stress. “For me it was an
accumulation of a lot of different
stresses,” Matthew explains. During his
senior year of high school he was exposed
to a lot of death and terminal illnesses.
To complicate matters, during the begin-
ning of Winter Term he also made the de-
cision to depledge from his potential fra-

ternity. “I already was not fully emotion-
ally stable and I couldn’t handle the
stress of pledgeship,” Loar explains.
“Depledging is not an easy decision to
make. Depledging was just the straw that
broke the camel’s back and I don’t blame
the Greek system as a whole.”

In talking openly about his battles
with depression, Matthew hopes to help
others seek help. “If I come out into the
open and I come clean, maybe others will
seek help. The initial ‘acceptance is the
hardest step to make,” Loar explains. “It’s
not normal to be feeling depressed feel-
ings all the time and people need to know
its OK to get help. In talking about it,
maybe other people might stop, take a sec-
ond and check their pulse to see if
they’re really doing OK or if they’re re-
ally holding something back.”

“A lot of people are afraid to go see a
counselor. There are stereotypes about
shrinks and they’re embarrassed, but it’s
amazing what can happen when you open
up to someone,” Matthew says. “Every-
body has a bad day now and then, but if
you start to see a pattern, and you go
weeks, maybe months, without a good day,
don’t keep it to yourself. Depression is a
ravaging beast that will consume your life
if you let it. Don’t be afraid to ask for help.”

Symptoms of depression include: sad-
ness, anxiety, loss of energy, sleep distur-
bances, appetite or weight change, feelings

MEGANMORGAN
ARl‘S8CLIFEEDll"OR
FMAi;MoRcANM1@Wrui~13rJ
TUESDAY, MARCH 15, 2004

BYSTEVENMARINOS RING-TUMPI-II
of hopelessness or guilt, thoughts of death
or suicide, difficulty concentrating or mak-
ing decisions, difficulty remembering, ex-
cessive crying or irritability, or chronic
aches or pains (National Institute of Men-
tal Health 2001). If you think you might need
help, please do not hesitate to contact the
Student Health Center at X8401, the Coun-
seling Center at x8590, a dorm counselor or
a peer counselor.

The naked truth: social criticisms and confessions from a nude model

BY COURTNEY E. PERRY ‘O4
STAEFWRIIER

I realize that, in publicizing the fact that I’m a
nude model and writing an opinion column on a
campus such as this, I’m setting myself up for all
sorts of criticisms, objectifying remarks, and vari-
ous other comments, rumors and stories. How-
ever, if I’m comfortable enough with myself and
my body to pose naked in front of a room full of
people, then I can certainly withstand the dissent-
ing opinions of others when I insist on being open
about my own. I charge you to say what you will.
I now bring you
(drumroll please!) The
Naked Truth: Social
Criticisms and Con-
fessions from a Nude
Model.

Without ques-
tion there exist many
stereotypes, customs
and social norms on
our dear W&L cam-
pus. We’ve all read
the numerous articles
which have so expressly articulated what were
generally known stereotypes seemingly ingrained
in the very letters which decorate the houses of
the Greek organizations.

However, this is not meant to be an article
about the “cool kids” and the stereotypes of the
various associations. Rather, I have found that
somehow, some way, the students, specifically
the girls, on campus have been brainwashed.
The result is a shockingly skewed perception of
social status that has left male students in a
‘grossly advantageous position which they still
seem to take for granted. I feel as though the
women on campus have come to view them-
selves, their worth, and their bodily images

“We’ve all read the numerous
articles which have so expressly
articulated What were generally
known stereotypes seemingly
ingrained in the very letters which
decorate the houses‘ of the Greek
organizations.” '

through distorted male eyes. The already dan-
gerous levels of eating disorders present on
campus have no doubt been exacerbated by ig-
norant, pompous frat boys who don’t know the
damaging effects of their own derogatory com-
ments. Furthermore, as the ever-classy Tim
Smith pointed out in his enlightening article sa-
luting the women of Washington & Lee, one of
the best aspects about spring supposedly is
(survey says!) mini—skirts. Now, I’m going to
guess and say that anyone—pledges ex-
cluded—wearing a mini-skirt on campus is not
trying to impress me or any other girl. So, what
is all of this for? Girls
across campus are liter-
ally making themselves
sick in an attempt to
gain the perfect figure,
and then objectifying
themselves by wearing
next to nothing to show
off such unnaturally
obtained illusory
beauty. And for what?
To impress... whom?
Them?! No thank you.

For the guys out there who make such afore-
mentioned derogatory comments, or who expect
girls to dress in mini—skirts for their viewing plea-
sure, or who even expect girls to put out during a
“random hook-up” and excuse you for not doing
so much as saying ‘hi’ on campus per the speak-
ing tradition afterwards (and, of course, not all
W&L guys are such barbarians), I ask you: why
should 1? Or why should any other girl for that
matter. What about my viewing pleasure? I don’t
see an overwhelming amount of guys——-or at least
certainly not as large a percentage as girls—bring—
ing themselves to the brink of death and/or physi-
cal exhaustion in order to obtain such Herculean
ideals of masculine physical perfection and then

walking around with their shirts off in 'order to
please me. Instead, I see an awful lot of “frat”
boys drinking copious amounts of beer in order
to seemingly assert their masculinity upon one
another rather than as an attempt to impress those
belonging to the female sex. Hey, “why have a
six pack when you can have the whole keg?” The
double standard is atrocious, and I, for one, am
not falling for it.

I have one ﬁnal complaint to wage against
the male student populous (or at least those
deemed cooler than me on the social ladder).
Honestly, would it melt you to take a shower be-
fore class? Comb your hair? Cut your hair?
Shave? Anything? Not only is your ﬁlthy, un-
kempt, unhygienic body an immense tum-off, but
frankly, I find it insulting to the integrity of the
highly—ranked and admired professors to say to
them in such a blatant and disrespectful manner
that they are not worth your cleanliness or the
extra time (what? 15 minutes for you boys?) it
takes for you to make yourself presentable in the
morning. How rude. However, having said that,
there will always be the occasional alarm clock
malfunction, late night study session, etc., that
will prevent any student from arriving to class in
the prettiest possible state. These instances
should be limited to just that—occasions.

<Sigh.> Now that I have verbally abused the
male student body, I feel it is highly necessary to
offer an apologetic disclaimer. This article is meant
to attack a general stereotype to which, as with
any stereotype, there are numerous exceptions. I
like to think, anyway, that an institution of higher
learning with a prestigious reputation such as
this one can boast at least a few intelligent men
who know enough to have some decency and
respect and thus not make horrid, offensive and
inappropriate remarks, especially as regards fe-
males, but in all respects as well. In fact, I hope
and urge all you boys out there to prove me

wrong and show that such pigs are in fact in the
minority! And I know there are boys out there
who do in fact shower and shave daily <gasp!>.
Also the superficial obsession with physical ap-
pearance is not merely an unfair judgment placed
upon females, but, of course, males as well. There
are plenty of Casanovas out there who may not
be the hottest ﬂames ever to light the fire of a
young fair maiden’s heart, but who, nonetheless,
possess infinite number of redeeming character-
istic qualities—sense of humor, chivalry, intelli-
gence, eloquence, affability, etc. (in case you
wanted a few hints as to what you should work
on). And these are just a few examples of the
vast number of stereotype exceptions.

So, back to the task at hand: girls, stand up
for yourselves! Know who you are and that
you do not have to settle for some rude, over-
weight, unattractive, unclean, underachiever any
longer! No matter what fraternity or other cam-
pus organization he may be involved in or what
his social status on this campus may be (trust
me, such “cool kids” may not be so highly ad-
mired once they get out into the “real” world).
Marilyn Monroe, one of the most gorgeous
women in American history was a size 12. Guys,
take a look at the world around you and appreci-
ate life’s small favors (even if they are just mini-
skirts-—thanks Tim Smith) and know that these
privileges are just those—favors, not entitle-
ments. Ideals of physical appearance, for both
men and women, are subject to trends, cultures,
fashions and seasons and are thus, ﬂeeting. And
if you do choose to “beautify” yourself, make
sure your goal is an equal and worthy cause.

To everyone, I say, cast off the stigma of
your Greek affiliation, and shed your expensive
designer (yet, in some cases, less covering)
clothes and take a good long look at yourselves.
Are you satisfied with what’s left underneath?
In short, everyone should be a nude model.

terraced landscaping.

Asking $229,000.

(540) 464-3738
or
(540) 460-47 1 8

704 N. MAIN ST., LEXINGTON, VA

Built circa 1880 an Institute Hill, now completely restored with
modern plumbing, wiring, heating, windows and new appliances.
New carpeting in all main rooms plus stenciled wood ﬂoors.

4 Bedrooms, 1 1/2 Baths, Livingroom/Diningroom, all new
kitchen plus a large utility/oﬂice Room. Large third ﬂoor
storage room and an attached outside storage area.
Two large front porches and beautiful old stone walls an

Easy walk to VMI, Washington and Lee or downtown shopping.
Private lane access and parking. Taxes $400 yearly.

Tom James Company
Interviews?

lntemship?
Special occasion?

your best!!

and Sports Coats

Student Packages &

Contact Adam Williams
for an appointment or
with questions

540-8154557

Let us help you look and feel

Custom and Ready Made Suits

Shirts, pants, shoes and" all accessories

Gi t Certi icates Available

Adam.Williams@tomjamesretail.com .

Send your engagement announcements to
phi@wlu.edu

3/98]

I

pa Lexington

F

Q,3§’\ EYEWEAR rs VISION ‘%.%9&/‘
EYEWEAREIS STYLE 4/‘

THE BEST OF BOTH IS AVAILABLE

The NewaOpticians

Boutique
203 N. Main Street

/ 8%, 540-463-7440 C.
30703 www.newopticians.com

o'\\\?’€’\S

 

PAGE 8

FIJI — The Phi Gams showed nothing but com-
plete dominance in their undefeated regular season
run. With the likes of Wes Kirnrnel, Chris Caramore,
and Reed “patty—cakes” N euman, this team has the
size, speed, talent, and with Yohe, Walcott, Patterson,
and McConnell in the mix, they have the deepest team
in the tourney. After last year’s ﬁnals loss, IFIJI is
looking to go all the way and-should,
so long as their early season dorrli—
nancel doesn’t lead to overconﬁ—
dence. Odds towinitall-3to2

Faculty — Last year’s charnpi—
ons, the faculty has a completely different team this
year. Coach Snyder is hurt, and potential IIVI power-
house Kadlubowski leaves them without an inside
force. As a result, they have adapted a high-octane
run—and-shoot offense, with the likes of Head Coach
Adam Hutchinson, Professor Casey, and Alumni Of-
ﬁce All-Star Eric Owsley. When they’ve got the hot
touch, this is a dangerous team, but without a pres-
ence inside, back—to-back championships may be a
tough order. Odds to win it all — 8 to 1

Law 2 (A) — The most dangerous law team, these

  

guys simply out—powered all the teams in their group, j

breezing to an easy #1 seed. Overwhelmingly ath-
letic, these guys like to run, drive and kick, and shoot
the three. Their only hurdle was a Phi Psi team that
played a tight first half, but then the law guys ran all
over the place in the 2”“ half and won by twenty.
Probably the best starting ﬁve in the tourney, this
team can only be beaten in a slow—tempo, grind-it-
out game. Odds to winit all—2 to 1

Lambda — The greatest Cinderella story in IM
B—ball history, Lambda surprised everyone with a leg-
endary undefeated regular season run, complete with
a last—second miracle win over Team Trotter. In the
playoffs, they will depend on post—play dominance
from wunderkind Adam Kowalsky and the Frat Lord
himself, as well as the outside touch ﬁom Pittypat
Jones, Marshall “The Miracle” Rule, and ﬂoor gen-
eral Moms Beshore. How far will this miracle story
go? Odds towinitall—8to 1

SAE — Plenty of size on this team, with Saxon,
Bode, Geist and Co., the E—dogs are the most power-

Hazing a

THE

iiiiiii 

THER1l\lG-TUM Pln

ful #2 seed in the tournament. They will out—rebound
their opponents and own the paint, but run—and-shoot
teams may give them a spot of trouble. Also, SAE
does not boast a lot of great outside shooters, leav-
ing questions about their ability to come from behind
— if needed, that is. Odds to win it all — 4 to 1

Phi Kap — Team Skulls plays physical basketball,
having survived some close games
with Sigma Chi and Chi Psi. The team
boasts valuable role—players, includ-
ing Hy-land-o and downtown—threat
Warren Hunter, but it’s no secret that
the key to this team is Chris Carlson. He takes a variety
of ﬂoaters, running-jurnpers and treys, and if he makes
those shots, Phi Kap will win. Otherwise, they’ll be
going home early. Odds to win it all——20 to 1

 

Pi Phi —A#2 seed courtesy of a win over PIKA,
Pi Phi slipped late in the season with a loss to the Indy
1 Panthers. Deceptively deep, Pi Phi is led by combo-
guard Adam Heinhauer and surprising post-man Whit
Whitﬁeld. But does Pi Phi have the athleticism to
compete with bigger, faster teams? To get anywhere,
they’ll need some trey bombs from Volbrecht and Baluk
to help the cause. Odds to win it all— 50 to 1

Phi Delt— The deﬁnition of a running team, Phi
Delt will look to Billy DeBuys, Greg Tweardy, and
Joel Carter to lead their high-octane offense deep
into the playoffs. While they can score a lot of points,

AST ORD

Official guide to W&L’s intramura

their defense is still unproven, as seen in their only
loss to Law 2 A. So long as they can get a bunch of
easy opportunities on offense, and aren’t forced to
shootjump—shots, Phi Delt is a dangerous team. Odds
to win it all — 7 to 1

Sigma Chi — Team Trotter was stunned in two last I

second losses, thanks to Chris Carlson and Marshall
Rule. In the tourney, Sigma Chi will live and die by the
three—pointer—if Trotter, Rob Rain, and early First—Team
candidate Chris Davis can drain the tllree—ball, Sigma
Chi has a chance to win. But the real question for
Sigmachee is their defense. This team has next to no
help inside — if Femald has to guard someone like
Neurnan, ouch. Oddstowinitall—30to 1
PIKA — The most underachieving team in the

regular season, PIKA should be dangerous come play

PH PO no
From left: Chris Caramore, Wes Kimmel and Patrick Newman. Can Fiji’s triple threat take them all
the way?

off time. Wltll Kerry Kellogg, Joe Lenoir, and the
versatile A.J. Manett, this team has plenty of fire
power. Mayson, Fasio and Treco add some size in
the paint, but are they physical enough to compete
with the big boys? Rebounding will be the key as
PIKA looks to make their championship run. Odds to
win it all 20 to 1

Law I — This law team has size and power, but
still struggled at times against SAE and the quicker
Faculty team. Nonetheless, they should beat smaller
teams simply by rebounding and outworking their
opponents in the paint. With not a lot of outside

   

lVlK}ANMORGAN
Alus&LlrrEolToR
EMAmlAoRoANnl1@uUlDU
TUESDAY, MARCH 15,2004

1 basketball playoffs

threats, this team would post—up every possession if
they were smart — in that sense, they control their
own destiny. Odds to win it all — 20 to 1

Phi Psi — The Frat Lord’s early season dark-
horse pick, Phi Psi has the dynamic duo of Todd
Chatham and Harnbone Hamilton. When these two
get going, it’s tough to slow them down, but de-
fense is the real key to Phi Psi’s playoff run. If they
manage to slow down the faster, more talented
teams, they’ll have a chance to make a decent run.
Oddstowinitall—50to1 .

Law 111 — A #4 seed thanks to a close win over
Indy 1, Law III will rely on their big man (you know,
the one with all the kids running around) and Paul
Pittman for any chance to make it anywhere in the
playoffs. Not very deep or talented, this team will
have to grind it out for a chance — they simply don’t
have the athleticism to compete with the more tal-
ented teams in the pool. Odds to win it all — 100 to 1

Kappa Sig — With two forfeits in the regular
season, Kappa Sig is now looking to prove them-
selves in the playoffs. Trey Hart is one of the
better big men in the tourney, but other than Tyler
Wolf, who provides excellent hustle work, K-
Schwag probably doesn’t have the depth or talent
to compete far into the tournament. Look for a first
round exit. Odds to win it all — 200 to 1

KA — Probably the best #4 seed, KA did rea-
sonably well even without the presence of Mos-
cow Franceski for most of the games. Whether or
not he plays in the tourney will help determine the
Order’s chances. Hunter Baird will shoot the three
anytime he chooses, and KA also boasts some
decent rebounders. However, this team doesn’t
play a lick of defense, and that will be their down-
fall in the tourney. Odds to win it all — 150 to 1

Law 2 B — The fourth and ﬁnal law team in the
tourney, Law 2 B slipped in through a three-way
tiebreaker with Chi Psi and Irldy 2. While not a very
well—rounded team, they do have scoring threats,
especially with the slasher—,shooter Kelsy Simcox.
While not terribly successful in the regular season,
this team could be dangerous if their opponents
take them lightly. Odds to win it all — 175 to 1

ways wrong, administration right to investigate allegations

BY JEB BROOKS
EDITOR IN CHIEF

I don’t think the administration is out to get us. You can call me an “ass-
kisser,” “brown-noser’ ’ or “suck-up.” I call myself realistic. Hear me out.

Maybe I’m missing something. Maybe I’m wrong. But, it seems to me
that when a parent or student accuses a fraternity of a potentially serious
hazing violation, an investigation must be conducted. For the sake of the
safety of the student, the house and the community, no stone may be left
unturned. Washington and Lee University has a duty to ensure that people’s
lives are not being put at risk under its watch. Sony y’all, but W&L can’t
allow us to injure — whether physically or mentally — each other.

Further, if no hazing occurred, an investigation can clear up any
misunderstanding. ’

RecentlyI’veheardmanystudents saythatadministratorsarehell-berlton
destroying allthatweloveaboutthisplace. Ifwelovetheopportunitytodernean

and even beat younger students, tllere’s something severely

wrongwith us. Weretheoneswhoneedtobeinvestigated What sort of message does it send
when these men are maggots on
Friday and suddenly exalted on
Saturday? Call me a'fool,.but
folks, this simply doesn’t make

The administration wins nothing by destroying a sys-
tem that we love. I don’t mean to put words in anyone’s
mouth, but I would be willing to bet that neither the Oﬁice
of Student Alfairs nor the Interfratemity Council want to
make otlr Washington and Lee experience negative. They
want students to enjoy their time in college. Their goal is to
ensure that these are the best four years of our lives.

The folks on the second ﬂoor of the Commons
want the Greek system to exist for its positives, not its negatives. They
want all the beneﬁts of fraternities without the dangers. Can you blame
them? Fraternities are wonderful. Fraternities are great. There are count-
less beneﬁts. Trouble starts when Greeks‘ cause problerrls.

When students are made to feel uncomfortable or are_injured, some-

another student at risk, someone must step in. If we are unable to
police ourselves, other groups must check on ‘us.

Washington and Lee allows a tremendous amount of student au-
tonomy. How many other schools permit students to adjudicate nearly
every offence themselves? Not many. From what I’ve heard, the IFC is
doing a ﬁne job. Keep it up. It’s thanks to their hard work and maturity
that students are allowed to continue governing themselves.

BynowifsclearthatldonotsupporthazinginanyfashiorrIdon’tcare
wheﬂrersomeorlecaﬂsaﬁeshmananameorbeatslnmwithabasebaﬂbat
it’s wrong. I believe a new member education pro-

remernber getting to know everyone in your fraternity in a positive and healthy
environment? Apledge program that unites a class, but divides a house is not
successful. It makes more sense to bring an entire house together and not leave
freshmen hating sophomores because of cruel interaction among classes.
Ifeelcompelledtomakeitknownthatlhavenothadmuchtodo withthe
pledgeperiodat my house. Callme abadbrother, butlhave spenttime irl other
endeavors. I can only write intelligently about my own pledge period [remem-

_ ber that it was a positive experience. I learned about my pledge class as well as

the othermembers of the house. Unlike my ﬁiends at otherhouses, I did not join
my fraternity with any hatredforthe oldermembers. Instead, I

gram should be focused on bringing a group of ac— ' - joined a group of friends sparmirlg four academic classes. I
quaintances together as friends. It should not in- Fraternity or no fratermty’ certainly hope that the freshmen who have just joined my
clude any sort of physical orrnerrtal punishment Af- You 31' 5 the Same Per 5011- house had a similar, positive experience.

ter a brief the stllderlts whom you demean
 Whatsortofrrlessagedoesitsendwhenthese
men are maggots on Friday and suddenly exalted on Saturday? Call me a
fool, but folks, this simply doesn’t make sense.
My definition of hazing is a great deal
more broad than most. I’ll be the ﬁrst to admit
that. I ask this: would I do this to my best
friend? If the answer is “yes,” it’s not hazing.
If it’s a “no,” that’s hazing. That seems simple,
right?
There are other ways to unite a group.
Try hikes and basketball games. Start a poker
tournament, watch a movie together or go out
to dinner. Do community service. Pledge classes can bond without
being made to feel less than their future brothers.
Sure, there are the hazers who say “I wouldn’t trade my pledgesllip
experience foranythingintheworld They don’tkrlowitnow, butthey’lllook
back on it fondly.” How much more fondly would you look on memories of

SCIISC.

' Bottom line: Hazing is wrong. Period. End of story.
Anyone who says differently is confused. Whether you tear someone
down emotionally or physically, it is wrong. Membership in a fraternity —
no matter how cool — is not worth being hazed for. I’d look somewhere

Q else for a set of friends before I joined a group who insisted on beating me

down. Those aren’t very good friends, at least not according to my
deﬁnition.

Fraternity or no fraternity, you are the same person.

Freshman fratemity members: I would like to ask that you please not
haze next year. I’m not certain, but I think that the situation will be a little
different during the next pledge period It’s about time changes were made.
Guys, follow the rules and use common sense. Act maturely. It will pay olf.
There is no need to demean anyone for the beneﬁt of pledge class urlity.

If there is someone out there who can convince me that I’m wrong,
please do it. I’ll gladly change my mind if I’m not in the right. I will happily
provide you the space in The Ring—tum Phi to make your point. I’m often
wrong and I’ll gladly admit it if I am. I don’t believe I am in this case,
though. Please feel free to shoot me an email at brooksj @wlu.edu. Con-

thing is really wrong. When a peer puts the health and well-being of

more positive interactions with your “brothers?” Wouldn’t it be better to

vince me.

“'7

Q I want to do dirty things with Matt Fink.

 

Q You know that movie, “Win a Date with Tad
Hamilton?” They should change it to “Win a Date
with Matt Fink.”

Q Shady Viktor is in love with Lena, and so is
shady Sasha. They think she is “ochen krasivaya.”
But Lena is hitting on Jim, the American graduate
student— and so is Tanya! What will happen in
this twisted love square? Find out next week in the
TMC! ‘

Q Has anyone else realized how beautiful Mallory
Calhoun is?

Q Drew Hotaling and Emilee Johnson are the
cutest couple ever.

Q Peggy Altman is my hero!

Q Emma Burris’ roommate is looking for informa-
tion concerning her library hideout. Monetary re-
wards will be offered.

Q You can’t be a nonconforrnist if you don’t drink
coffee.

Q Can someone please explain to me the logic of
wearing a heavy winter coat if your skirt is eight
inches long? Cover your damn legs. No wonder
you’re cold. ‘

Q Best line from a prospective: “Do you want a
beer?” “No thanks, I’ve already had one.”

Q Of all the soccer players, Scott Pittman is the
hottest in his pink jersey.

Q “Piss is just like salty water.” —Jirn McDougal1

Q I’ve heard about this: it’s spontaneous com-
bustion, but it only happens to fat people near
ﬂames.

Q “Kody” by Matchbox 20, W&L theme song
anyone?

Q Travis Smith earned an 800 on the math sec-
tion of the SAT.

Q A certain Kappa in a blue dress needs to cut
down on the party pics. As well as on her time in
the tanning bed.

Q Norman Senior is soooo hot! I wish he had
danced with me at Fancy Dress.

Q Tim Smith, I think we had better girls before we
went co-ed.

Q More: Tim Smith, I’d rather go through hell
weeks than be stuck in a room with three W&L
girls for three minutes.

Q Still more: Tim Smith, did you lose a bet?

Q Yet still more: Tim Smith, I guess you missed
the little man running rampant with the ugly stick.
He kicks more ass than Chesbrough.

Q Finally: Tim Smith, what kind of sick sarcasm
are you trying to use to make fun of the terrible
girls here?

Q People should start saying thanks to those
working in dining services. Use those Southern
manners your mommy and daddy taught you and
say,  to the people at the cash register or
cooking your food. P

Q The next girl that pushes someone out of the
way in the D-Hall line is going to get slapped.

Q Thank God for Erik Sivertson and Colton Ward.

Q First exploiting Campus Notices, now Quick
Hits. SAO needs to give it a break.

Q Reasons Gilliam is better than Graharn—Lees: 1)
We can pee in our sinks at night. 2) Gilliam is TFC—
free.

Q “Raging Intellectuals”~— little more than an
entertaining, sharp, hilarious editorial. Lighten up.
Besides, the world always needs more John
Basedow.

Q Decagon? More like Upperdeckagon.

Q The Decagon is holding informal recruitment
interviews. Applicants are encouraged to be to-
tally sweet.

Q You have to wait in line to use the comput-
ers at the kiosks just like everyone else. Don’t
butt in.

Q You are not a beautiful and unique snowﬂake.

Q Congratulations to the newly initiated Kappa
Delta Pledge Class of 2004!

Q Does anyone else feel that Quick Hits is be-
coming just another editorial by Jeb Brooks and

Brett Kirwan?

(1) This is the only Quick Hit written by Jeb and
Brett this week.

Q E-mail your anonymous Quick Hits and plans

A for Spring Break to phi@wlu.edu.

4"

/‘A.

 

 

K

Security nabs
laptop thieves

BY ERIN JULIUS
NEWS EDITOR

Campus security apprehended one of the two
men accused of burgling the law school. Students
complained of laptop thefts earlier this winter term.

In the early morning hours of March 13, Officer
Daniel Rexroderecognizedtherewas something wrong
when he found two young men in a black Ford pick—up
truck in the Lee Chapel parking lot. Because neither
man had any identiﬁcation, Rexrode called local police.
One of the suspects “bail ” when police were called,"
but Rexrode held onto the other until police arrived.

Police discovered a laptop case, three bookbags
full of laptops, a box of assorted items and some CD
cases in the back of the truck. ‘

“Four or ﬁve laptops” in total were discovered,
said Director of Security Mike Young. The suspect
was charged with possession of stolen goods. Secu-
rity towed the suspect’s truck

“Because of his [Rexrode’s] attentive attention to
detail, we got these guys,” said Young.

By looking through mug shots, Rexrode has iden-
tiﬁed the suspect who got away from the scene, and it
is just a matter of time before that suspect isvarrested
too, said Young.

One suspect is from Waynesboro. The other sus-
pect, “is a known thief, a convicted criminal from this
community who was released from jail recently——hope-
fully he’ll be going back soon,” said Young.

Catching thieves, “doesn’t come from luck as
much as paying attention,” said Young, who credits
Rexrode with excellent security work.



TON

   

L EUNIVERSIIY

UM

Ylie student ooice of Washington and Lee University since I 897

  .................. 
MONDAY, MARCH22, 2004

 

MC 2

UP IN SMOKE!

Diamond Street trafﬁc.

PUT IT OUT! Aﬁre at 301 Diamond Street across from Lylburn
Downing Iniddle school broke out at 3:20 p.m. Saturday afternoon.
Lexington, Buena Vista, Rockbridge County and Kerrs Creek fire
departments all responded to the fire. Fire trucks blocked trafﬁc

their son who lives in Glasgow.

Robert Foresman, Lexington Fire Chief, said that the fire was “accidental and
possibly electrical.” A fire official at the scene said that the fire started under the i
porch on the left side of the house. A small crowdwatched the firemen ﬁght the fire.
No one was injured, but the house is a total loss. The residents have moved in with

S'I'EVIﬂ\Il\/IARIN

Ring-tum ‘ '

Student Health Committee recommends change to smoking policy in dorms

BY ERIN JULIUS
NEWS EDITOR

Next year, campus smokers will be forced out-
side. The Student Health Committee, chaired by.
Doctor Horton, devised a~new ‘policy regarding
smoking in and around residence halls.

All indoor areas of the residence halls will be
non—smoking, and smokers must refrain from smok-
ing in entrances to buildings, near open windows
and air intakes and in any other area where air is not
dispersed well. “Unfortunately, our halls lack com-
mon spaces that could be designated for smoking
while still maintaining smoke-free air for non-smok-
ers,” said Dean David Leonard.

Adrninstrators have been dealing with issues
of second-hand smoke all year. “We have encoun-
tered numerous issues with students who are con-
cemed, frustrated, and angered about having to deal
with second-hand smoke that emanates into hall-
ways,” said Leonard. “N on—smokers rights need to
prevail due to the fundamental health issues and
risks associated with second-hand smoke,” he said.

Students will be expected to help implement

the new policy. For the policy to be effective, Wash-
ington and Lee will need the courtesy, respect and
cooperation of everyone. Students should direct
their first complaints to the smoker. If problems
aren’t resolved, the complaints should be directed
to the Residential Life staff ‘and finally to Dean
Leonard or Dean Futrell, said Leonard.

“I think W&L is turning into a Nazi police
state...what’s next? Bedtimes?” asked Allen Barry, a
junior dorm counselor.

The American College Health Association and
the American Cancer Society agree that second-
hand smoke exposure causes eye and nasal irrita-
tion, reduces lung ftmction, exacerbates asthma,
increases the risk of respiratory tract infections and
has acute effects on the cardiovascular system.
Second—hand smoke can cause lung-disease and
death, even in non-smokers.

“If it’s for a safety issue, I guess it’s
understndable, however, as a smoker, I think it’s
just one more armoying sanction,” said sophomore
Mathilde Hungerford.

Fire risk was also considered when the com-

‘ rriittee created this new policy.

H TEVEN ' I 0 '
PUT IT OUT! Students like Jon Cochran ‘O6 will no longer be able to smoke inside residence halls.

 
   

. as" ..
.

Goldberg only beginning of exciting Contact season

BY KAELA HARMON
SENIOR STAFF WRITER

Jonah Goldberg is just the
first of several speakers who will
be brought to campus for the du-
ration of the year.

Goldberg is the editor of the
country’s largest conservative
online newsmagazine, National
Review Online, and was brought
to campus by Contact, Hillel and
Young America’s Foundation. He
spoke last Ihesday in Lee Chapel.

In his talk, entitled “Diversity, Paci-
fism, and Other Controversial
Ideas,” Goldberg was entertaining
and informative in expressing his
views on “compassionate conser-
vatism,” the dangers of rriaking di-
versity “the be all that ends all” and
“why we should reconsider feder-
alisIn.”

About 50 people turned out for
the lecture, which was followed by
a reception at the Alumni house.

This was Contact’s ﬁrst oﬂicial
event, and Contact Chairman
Victoria Guroian admitted that she

was a bit disappointed about the
turnout. “We thought it would be
nice to bring in a conservative
speaker in light of Mock Conven-
tion.”

She acknowledged, however,
that “Although they [students]
claim to be conservative [they’re]
a little bit complacent.”

Guroian isn’t worried. She
said that they have several other
speakers planned for the next few
weeks. They have teamed up with
the Journalism Ethics Institute for
their next event which will be this

Thursday when fomier “60 Min-
utes” producer, Lowell Bergman,
comes to speak Bergman is also
known as the person on whom the
ﬁlm “The Insider” is based.

For Contact’s “keynote”
event, the committee plans to bring
in David Boies. Boies, who argued
the Napster case as well as the
Florida recount case, is known as
one of the nation’s top litigators.
He is scheduled to speak during
exam week on April 6.

Explorer Conrad Anker and a
Cuban refugee who has gone on to

become a political advocate are
also scheduled to come to campus

In the past, Contact has
started their lecture series much
earlier in the school year but sev-
eral factors combined to get them

the administration but they all de-
clined and that “put us behin ”.
Guroian noted that when
you’re dealing with money and try-
ing to bring in big names it is un-
portant to remember that ‘you’re a

oﬁ to a slow start this year. slave to your budget” and that “It’s
Guroian said that earlier this always a struggle to find the best
year, Contact invited Ralph Nader way to spend your money.” She is

to come to campus and that ini-
tially he accepted the invitation.
Then after making the committee
wait for conﬁrmation, he declined.
She also said that they were hop-
ing to get additional funding from

conﬁdent that by the end of the
year Contact will have had another
successful year. “We’ve got a great
Logistics Chair [Brent Beshore],
and as long as we’re ahead, stuff
always comes together.”

Seifert receives Watson Fellowship, plans world travel

BY KYLE \VAss
ASSISTANT EDITOR

Washington and Lee Senior Paul Seifert was
recently given the Thomas J. Watson Fellowship,
awarded to a maximum of 50 people of college-gradu-
ation age.

The Watson Fellowship was developed in 1968
to give college graduates “of unusual promise the
freedom to engage in a year of independent study
and travel abroad following their graduation,” ac-
cording to the fellowship’s website.

With the stipend awarded by the Watson Fel-
lowship — $22,000 for the year, plus a supplemental
amount equal to a year’s payment of outstanding
federally guaranteed and institutional student loans
— students have the opportunity to travel abroad
for a “focused and disciplined year of their own
devising.”

Travel must not include areas of the world in
which the student has previously lived or studied
for a long period of time.

Students awarded the fellowship are prohibited
from returning to the United States for the full year
that they are studying abroad, be-
ginning no later than August 1st
of the summer following the
student’s graduation from college.

Students may propose a
topic of study for the Watson Fel-
lowship in nearly any ﬁeld they
choose, but it should “reﬂect a
candidate’s genuine interest in, and long-standing
commitment to, a speciﬁc pursuit,” and essentially
be “personally significant, imaginative, and fea-
sible,” according to the fellowship’s website. The
year abroad may not involve formal study at a for-
eign institution.

I still don’t think it has completely sunk in
yet — that I’m getting to travel the world
next year to participate in the two things I
love the most — fishing and art

Paul Seifert, a senior here at W&L, plans to travel
all over the world with the purpose of engaging liim—
self with people whose livelihood hinges on ﬁshing.

In his project summary, Seifert wants “to
live in small coastal angling communities in the
tropics where
a reliance on
catching fish
— a constant
struggle with
sun, salt and
surf — causes
fishing to
seep into other parts of the culture.”

His proposal for study is titled “Where Fish-
ing is Life: Recording Angling Cultures with Paint
and Poetry.” Places that he plans to travel include
primarily coastal villages in the tropics, such as,
Ponta de Macaneta on the southern coast of

Mozambique, Mararikulam of India, the noithem coast
of Peru, and the northeastem coast of Brazil.

Seifert seems stunned by his accomplishment.
In response to his new opportunity, Seifert said, “I
still don’t think it has completely sunk in yet — that
I’m getting to travel the world next year to participate
in the two things I love the most — ﬁshing and art.”

According to their website, in selecting Watson
Fellows, the Watson Foundation is most concerned
with “holistically identifying individuals who dem-
onstrate integrity, irnagination, strong ethical char-
acter, intelligence, the capacity for vision and lead-
ership, the promise of creative achievement, and ex-
cellence within a chosen ﬁeld.”

Fellows are also selected partially on the basis
of their academic record and extracurricular activi-
ties “which reﬂect both initiative and serious dedi-
cation.” Seifert is currently business manager of
The Ring-tum Phi.

 

 

MONDAY, MARCH 22, 2004

  I

II

‘NOTES

Pro-lite club plans baby shower for Wednesday

Students for Life is hosting a Baby Shower to beneﬁt the
families of Staunton Pregnancy Help Center on Wednesday, March
24, at 7p.m. in Commons Room 345. Please come with a baby gift
and enjoy desserts, prizes, party favors, and a guest speaker. If
you carmot come but wish to help, donations will be collected in
the common room of the Commons up until Wednesday night.
Baby donations include toys, blankets, clothes, diapers, etc.

Woman’s activist vists as scholar-in-residence

Dr. Bernice R. Sandler, a key player in the development and
passage of Title IX and other legislation prohibiting discrimina-
tion against women in education, will meet with students, faculty
and the president of Washington and Lee University as the
school’s scholar—in-residence March 22-24.

Sandler will deliver a keynote address on “Peer Harassment: What
Is It? How to Stop It?” on Tuesday, March 23, at 7:30 p.m. in the theater
of W&L’s John W. Elrod University Commons. The speech is open to
the public without charge. The speech will draw on Sandler’s "re-
search on student-to-student harassment as a senior scholar at the

g Women’s Research and Education Institute in Washington, D.C.

Corrections

Last week’s article entitled “Truck driver implicated in Owings’
death receives 30 days in jail, ﬁne” we incorrectly spelled Owings’
name. The correct spelling is Cullum.

Also in last week’s issue, we did not attribute the statistics in the
article headlined “Anti-Ignorance campaign planned to hit campus in
April.” The statistics came from the ofﬁce of Institutional Research.

Hidden Hero Haeberle helps humanity

Freshman class President, Bonner Leader, active in fraternity life through Owings Service Initiative

Freshman class president
Tye Haeberle is known by many
because of his outgoing nature
and friendly demeanor. His
friendliness extends to the com-

you’ve done means so much to
the patients.”

Last term Tye took Profes-
sor Beckley’s Poverty 101 class
and said that it had a profound

munity because impact on
of the large ~L—-————— him, “It is a
amount of volun- HIDDEN HEROES class that
teerworkheisin- everyone
volved with. JORDAN  s h o u l d

Tye recently take,” Tye

joined the Bonner Leadership‘

group. This program will have
him working on 900 hours of
community service by the end
of his junior year. In addition, he
stands to take leading positions
in the Owings Service Initiate, a
newly formed organization de-
signed to help get Fraternities
more involved with community
service. This summer he will con-
tinue his work by volunteering
back home in Ashland, Ky., and
working in a doctor’s ofﬁce.
Tye is pre—med and de-
scribed it as an amazing amount
of work. He said he has spent at
least one big party night in the
science library. Tye wants to be
a doctor, like his father. Every
time he sees his dad’s patients
they look genuinely grateful,
and that “nothing could really
compare to saving a life...what

said, citing it as his favorite class.
He feels Professor Beckley’s

poverty class is important be- M

cause it’s all too easy to get
trapped in the “Washington and
Lee Bubble” and to “just ignore
what’s going on only a few miles
away from campus.”

While here at W&L, 'I‘ye also
strongly encourages others to
“always take a chance when
meeting new people.”

He says that the most im-
portant thing to do here is to
make good relationships, be-
cause when things get rough
they are they only things that
matter.

In addition to volunteering
and working this summer, Tye re-
ally wants to travel to Utah and
visit Arches National Park and
camp in the desert. He wants to
get out and see as much as he can.

Mosr ELIGIBLE BACHELOR. The Phi has it on good authority that many
Freshmen ladies are after Hidden Hero Haeberle.

Jeb retires from Ring-tum Phi to pursue other opportunities

BY JEB BROOKS

I will devote my "‘free time” to my new position on the

EDITOR IN CHIEF

It’s time for me to say goodbye. This is my last
issue as editor in chief of The Ring-tum Phi. Next
week I’ll pass the buck on to a very capable group
of people.

Andrew Latimer ‘05 will serve as editor in chief,
Erin Julius ‘O6 as managing editor and Chris
Lauderman ‘O6 will be production director. My stint
required between 40 and 60 hours of work in a week
and taiight me that no one person should have to
bear such a burden on his shoulders.

These three qualified students will divide the
workload among themselves and strive to bring you
a phenomenal product. p . '

Latimer served as News Editor and Opinions Editor
at the Phi two years ago. His work was (and will be) bar
none. His ability to see the “big picture”will ensure
that the newspaper stays timely and does not falter
from its current path. .

Julius performed as Sports Editor last year and
News Editor this year. Her ability to recruit new staff-
ers and discover stories is incredible. Her dedication
to the Phi is unmatched. She will work to make sure
that writers write and section editors edit.

Lauderman will be certain that our ads are properly
placed and our advertisers remain happy. He will also
interface with our printer. His hard work and consis-
tently positive attitude serve to keep the staff going.

David Seifert will run the business side. He has
learned much under the careful tutelage of his brother
Paul, the current business manager. David will surely
continue to keep the Phi running like clockwork.

Other staff positions will be announced in the fu-
ture. Please get in touch with one of these three for
information about joining the Phi.

Student Judicial Council. I very much look forward to dedi-

cating myself to student governance at Washington and
Lee University. Our level of student autonomy 'is unique
and I can't wait to be a part of our system.

This year has brought terriﬁc change for the Phi. We
began it with our move into the University Commons. I am
proud to say that we were the first student organization to
move into the new facility. We are preparing to celebrate one
year in our new Commons office. The new facility, though
smaller, has helped us immensely. We have thrived in our
high-tech, more public and cleaner workplace. We have seen
an increase in the number of staffers. Thanks to the hard
work of that dedicated staff, we have cut our production
time to six hours on Sundays. It sounds like a lot of time, but
as the old saying goes, “time ﬂies when you’re having fun.”

We have covered some major stories during the course
of this year. We dealt with suspensions of fraternities, the
retention of Spring Term, Mock Convention, Student Lead-
ers coming under fire, thefts at the Law School, the disap-
pearance of Honor Court records at VMI and the question-
able future of the Buffalo Creek Music Festival.

In short, the year has been incredible. I have
learned so much about our community and myself.
My skin is thicker, my horizons are broader and the
pressure and workload have led me to lose a few
pounds.

My advice to next year’s- staff is simple. Have fun. Edit-
ing a newspaper is, at times, very stressful. Don’t let it get to
you. Make sure you do your best and don’t let anything get
you down. Oh, and don’t worry. If you need something, I’ll
probably be somewhere in the Commons. I already live here!

And one more thing. I must thank my grand-
mother for her weekly critical reading of the Phi.
Her input single-handedly led to massive increases
in our copy editing staff. Thanks for the feedback!
Next year’s group will miss your perspective.

FEARLE$ LEADERS. Latimer, Julius and Lauderman look to a bright future at 7heRing-tum Phi.

~ HELPAFRIEND ORNEIGHBOR ~ ,
JOIN THE 400+ MEMBERS OF THE NABORS SERVICELEAOUE.
FOR MORE INFORMATION, EMAIL JOANNA PERINI AT PERINI]@\Il/LU.EDU

Don’t drink and drive...
Call Traveller
540-45 8-8900

Celebrate Spring Time
Mother’s Day ~ Father’s Day
Brides ~ Graduation

witha

Relaxing Massage
by Kelly Harris

(540) 264-0063
Gift Certiﬁcates, Packages
Speaking Engagements
Certified through VA Board of Nursing
13 Years Experience

Cleaners

 

7 North Jefferson Street
463-3622

FORALL OF YOUR DRY CLEANING NEEDS:

University

Don’t forget to take the National College
Health
Survey next week.

Send questions to J an Kaufman at
jkaufman@wlu.edu

dry cleaning,
laundry, alterations

The Ring-tum Phi

your source for
accurate,
quality and
complete

NEWS, OPINION, SPORTS AND LIFE
A at
WASHINGTON AND LEE UNIVERSITY

'.

.7}

 

 

4

 

 

MONDAY, MARCH 22, 2004

 )1TORlAL

L

Trident has seriously erred

The Ring—tum Phi believes that .

Washington and Lee’s other student
newspaper, The Trident, must clean up
its act. Recent content has been offen-
sive and cruel. The Executive Com-
mittee is right to complain (see page 4.).

The publication continues to call it-
self “independent” despite the fact that
the organization received $5,000 in Ex-
ecutive Committee funding.

In essence, the Executive Commit-
tee paid off half of The Trident’s debt
during the budget allocations session at
the beginning of the year. Previous EC’s

were unwilling to extend the same cour- '

tesy to The Ring—tum Phi and Calyx
during their times of ﬁnancial need; we
were told to get out of debt ourselves.
Further, The Trident consistently prints
offensive content. We understand the dif-
ferences between our publications. In fact,
we respect those differences. There ex-
ists, however, a line that should not be
crossed. Direct and mean-spirited attacks
have been appearing with more regularity.
Ironically, The Trident was founded
as a response to similar editorial missteps
by The Ring—tum Phi ten short years ago.
In short, The Trident receives fund-
ing from the student activities fee and
uses it to print harsh and pointed attacks
at the same students who pay those fees.
We respect and admire the Execu-
tive Committee for taking a stance on this
issue. We believe that everything con-
tained within their open letter is right on.
While wary of censorship, we must
use common sense. Common sense dic-
tates that being asked to carefully con-
_ sider the consequences of printing hurtful
commentary that amounts to nothing more
than a laugh is not censorship. Common
sense also dictates that cutting something
that is newsworthy or important does fall
into that category. The difference is clear.
Student publications must balance
on a very thin line. We believe that The
Trident has crossed it on several occa-
sions and ask, as did the Executive Com-
mittee did, that they carefully consider
what they print in the future.

THE RING-TUM PHI

CALEYANDEJEDN
OPlNlOl\BFDlIOR

FMAEArt)HuoN<@nUEDU

PINIONS

PAGE 3

Spring Term counts less for one student

It was the beginning of my freshman year that
all the “Save Spring Term!” hysteria began. Being
the naive newcomer, I joined in the outrage, signed
the student petitions, trashed the administration
with fellow students. To me and many others, Spring
Term took on mythical proportions — a paradise of
taking fun and easy classes, perpetual parties and
drunkenness, and enjoying the beautiful Virginia
weather and all the natural wonders in the Lexing-
ton area.

Turns out, this truly was a myth. Instead of
being the cakewalk that everyone
said it would be, I and countless
others were working our butts off
trying to keep up with the de-
mands of professors cramming 12
weeks of class into six weeks. Someone please ex-
plain to me how six hours per class every week is
supposed to be easy, never mind fun!

The key to surviving is to only take one class,
but what about that new six credit requirement com-
ing into effect in a few years? Are they crazy?!
Now, if we had the same amount of hours per week
as during the 12 week semester and had the same
amount of work required, then that would make more
sense.

MISS INDEPENDENT
ALEXA MoUrEvELrs ‘06

And what about how Spring Term is supposed
to be great because we can take interesting classes
that aren’t offered at other times. First of all, why
can’t we have interesting classes every semester
instead of having to wait for the end of the year?
Or would that make us too much like other schools?
Second of all, where are these interesting classes?
Only those that are able to study abroad or take
some sort of a ﬁeld class beneﬁt. Those of us that
have to stay on campus lose out.

My major, Politics, is only offering four courses
that are only available Spring Term,
the other four are their basic 100
level‘ requirements for the major.
Philosophy only has four Spring
Term courses, and Anthropology
and Sociology are only offering three.

Considering the fact that I would only be in-
terested in a few of these classes, that many other
students are competing for seats in this limited se-
lection, and that I might have a late course selec-
tion time, the odds of getting into one of these
“interesting” classes is very low. Plus, with the
insane amount of coursework required it is practi-
cally impossible to stay interested and not end up
hating the subject by the end of May.

Now, with all this extra work, it is much harder
to take a break and go to a party. Plus, frats aren’t
as interested in throwing parties because rush
and pledgeship are over and they’re just about
out of money. Sure, there’s still stuff going on,
but it’s harder to find and much harder to ﬁnd
time to go to.

And as for Goshen, I didn’t even get to go
last year because every time I had a break from
the studying and planned on going, it was ei-
ther a cold or rainy day. We didn’t even have
nice weather last year. Hopefully this spring
will be beautiful, but personally I would rather
be enjoying the beautiful weather back home at
the beach with my friends who get out of school
between the end of April and rnid-May, than stay
here working, hearing about all the fun they’re
having.

By the time we get back from school, the
carefree days are over; friends have started jobs
and have less free time to hang out. Plus, this
year, we are taking ﬁnals on Memorial Day, the
ofﬁcial celebration of summer beginning, so we
miss out on that big party weekend. Please,
somebody tell me: What is so great about Spring
Term?

 

“You’ve done a great job decorating the

White House.”

_~Jessica Simpson to Secretary
of the Interior Gale Norton

 

Editor in chief Jeb Brooks
Assistant Editor Kyle Wass
News Editor Erin Julius
Opinions Editor Caley Anderson
Asst. Opinions Editor Anne Finley
Arts & Life Editor Megan Morgan
Asst. Arts & Life Editor Chris Lauderrnan
Photography Editor Cody Gabbard
Asst. Sports Editors John Hyland
Chad Kiewiet de Jonge
Production Assistants Emily Edwards
Kelly Jo Larsen
Copy Editors Alexa Moutevelis

Kate Zawyrucha
Vanessa Amess

Business Managers Paul Seifert
David Seifert
Circulation Director Rob Rain
Asst. Circulation Dir. Leggett Kitchin
Distribution Dir. Stephen Lipscomb

The Ring—tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee Univer-
sity, Lexington, Virginia The Ring—tum Phi is a member of
The Publications Board. but is otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible sub-
missions and letters. All submissions must be e—mailed
to phi@wlu.edu or in the University Center mailbox by
5 p.m. Friday to appear in the following weeks edition.
The Ring-tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions
for content and length. Letters and columns do not
necessarily reflect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi
Editorial Board. Advertising does not reflect the opin-
ions of The Ring—tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper
observes current court deﬁnitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
University Commons Room. 341
Washington and Lee University
Lexington, Wrginia 24450
Telephone: (540) 458-4060
Fax: (540) 458-4059
Email: phi @wIu.edu
Subscription rate $40

Scouts’ outdated
morals losing suport

  

 

 

COTE  m2
DISCRIMINATION? Do these kids want to exclude, or do they  Want to be Scouts?

Last year, I published an ar-
ticle in the Phi regarding my dis-
approval of the exclusionary poli-
cies of the Boy Scouts of America.
A former Boy Scout myself, I con-
tinue to have no end to my disap-
pointment at the BSA’s inexpli-
cable demand for rigid uniformity
to societal memes popular in the
1950s.

Now, mind you, I don’t think
the Scouts should
be ' forced to
change their poli-
cies by the govern-
ment, as some do.
They’re a private group, after all,
and are free to discriminate
against non—Christians as well as
homosexuals as they currently
do, by excluding both non—be-
lievers and homosexuals from
both becoming Boy Scouts, as
well as holding positions in the
organization itself.

The Eagle Scout whom I
wrote about last time was expelled
without appeal from the Scouts
simply because he made it known
that he did not believe in a god.
Unconstitutional? No. Dumb?
Yes. The BSA has many pur-
poses, but my understanding is
that the primary one is to ensure
that its members become edu-
cated, upstanding members of
society. If religious beliefs or
sexual orientation are more impor-
tant than that, then what are the
Scouts for, anyway?

So, while the Scouts may do as
they please, they will soon find them-
selves out in the cold if they don’t
leap forward by about forty or ﬁfty
years. It would do the Scouts great

receive state employee payroll deduc-
tion donations. The Scouts sued,
claiming (ironically), discrimination
against their particular set of values.
They lost in court because Federal
judges ruled that state governments,
though bound to treat all value sets
equally, are legally able to withhold aid
to groups that go against the state’s
own discrimination policy. The
Scouts’ appeal to the Supreme Court
was denied. Thus,
as the Scouts have
learned, discrimi-
nate, and you’ll of-
ten get discrimi-
nated against, or in this particular
state, upholding the private rights of
gays, secularists, and so on, takes pre-
cedence over the first amendment right
of denying those rights. The Scouts
have subsequently suffered similar
setbacks in most of the fifty states,
losing leases, charitable funds, and
signiﬁcant amounts of members. In
my own hometown of San Diego, the
Scouts were evicted from a public
aquatic facility, and a lawsuit there is
in progress, though you can count on
the results being the same as the pre-
cedent.

I wonder how many of the ado-
lescents, troop leaders, and the gen-
eral volunteers and members who com-
prise the rank and ﬁle in the Scouts
actually have strong views support-
ing the discriminatory policies. Some,
to be sure, but I’m sure just as many
go the other way in silent protest, and
many more are surely apathetic. You
can talk about “values” and “morals”
all you want, but in the end, those sup-
posed values and morals that hold that
both homosexuality and heresy on re-
ligious matters are morally wrong are
beneﬁt to embrace the inclusionary simply at odds with modern society,
policies held by any public institu— and with the beliefs of a majority of
tion. ‘ . Americans.

But if they don’t, well, what So, once more, while the elite of
happens? I predicted last year that the BSA administrators are free to do
they would lose public support un- as they please by putting God in the
less they modernized their “values.” Scout’s Code, and by expelling gays
InConnecticut, recently, atrend be— without a second thought, they
gan that has been subsequently fol- should be cautious. Unless they get
lowed by businesses and organiza- with the program, they may soon ﬁnd
tions in many other states. The State their funds dwindling, their facilities
Government there dropped the gone, and most of all, alarge number
Scouts from a list of charities that of their Scouts deserting.

MoDERArE’sMUsrNcs
cmrmaorr.

Examining “Feminism”
associal equality of sexes

Belief in the social, political, and economic equality of the sexes. Look up
the word “feminism” in any dictionary, and you will find a deﬁnition that
corresponds with this one. Over the years, this word has acquired a some-
what negative connotation, and it is not uncommon to find that mere are
many misconceptions about its meaning. Feminism is not about women re-
ceiving preferential treatment, men being degraded, men and women being
equal in every way, or any other absurd idea that it is often associated with. As
made clear by its definition, it is about
men and women being treated equally so-
cially, politically, and economically. It is
my opinion that upon honest consider-
ation, we will fmd nothing about this be-
lief that is so unbelievably radical. After all, everyone, I hope, williagree that
women and men should have equal political rights, that members of both
genders be paid fairly for equal work, etc.

However, the most controversial aspect of the theory of feminism does
not seem to deal with politics or economics: it is the demand for social equal-
ity that divides the population. I will be the first to admit that it is unreason-
able to claim that men and women are identical in every way. No one will
logically deny obvious differences between the two genders; however, I do
not ﬁnd it at all unwarranted to ask that men and women be treated equally. I
find that this is the goal that is most difﬁcult to realize in a society that insists
on sustaining old-fashioned stereotypes. Both males and females seem to be
obstinately set on keeping things the way they are at present.

A simple example will prove this point quite clearly. Everyone is familiar
with the idea that it is considered “gentlemanly” for a man to hold the door for
a woman, but I ask, is it believed to be “ladylike” if a woman does the same for
a man? Why is it thought polite or dutiful for a man to hold the door but
unusual or rare for women to do the same?

This kind of double standard applies to many social customs that exist to
this day. Practices like men paying for dinner, men being the ones who ask
women out, and men buying gifts for women, etc. are basically continuations
of a paternalistic tradition that obligates men to “take care” of women. I am
not saying that it is wrong for someone to treat someone else to dinner, but it
is wrong for us to believe that a man has an obligation to act in this way. It is
also wrong to think that it is somehow odd or bizarre for a woman to do the
same.

What it comes down to is the motive behind such actions. I think it is
obvious that a skewed idea of duty should not motivate polite actions like
holding a door for someone or treating someone to a meal. It would be won-
derful if everyone did these things out of a personal desire to be nice, but this
is unfortunately not always true. At first, the social customs I have used as
examples may seem trivial, but when one further delves into their rationale, it
becomes clear that they contribute signiﬁcantly to the existing order of social
inequality between the sexes. If we want this aspect of society to change, we
must begin with by re-evaluating how our very own actions contribute to its
subsistence.

Ring-tum Phi Quick Poll
Hazing
Today ’s Question - Do you support the actions

taken by the administration this year as regards
pledgeship and hazing?

A FRESH PERSPECTIVE
BIEEKA SHRESTHA ‘O7

NOT SURE
6%

YES NO  
50% 44%

34 students were polled, giving this poll
95% conﬁdence in a plus or minus 5%
margin of error. 19 of the polled students
were male, 15 were female.

Quick Poll Procedure- A simple random sample of students is
polled via random selection from the directory.

 

 



Letters to the Editor

EC concerned about Trident content

An Open Letter to the Editorial Board of
The Trident:

The Executive Committee believes that The
Trident’s content has recently teetered on the edge
of common decency.

While we understand your First Amendment
right to print whatever you wish, we believe that
student publications at Washington and Lee must
hold themselves to a higher and more respectable
standard. Recent sharp and specific attacks have
caused concern throughout the Student Body.

Printing hurtful commentary accomplishes
nothing. The choice to run such articles exempli-
ﬁes poor decision—making and judgment. Such
content emphasizes preexisting insecurities of
those whom you call out and makes public the per-
sonal aspects of the livesof innocent students.

Further, your publication is starting to em-
barrass and tarnish the good name of Washing-
ton and Lee University. Many of us are proud of
our community. The content of your publica-
tion often degrades what we hold most dear and
is a poor representation of Washington and Lee.
Alumni, faculty, parents, grandparents and —
given the timing of your most recent issue — pro-
spective students, see what you print and take it
as absolute truth.

A disclaimer at the bottom of an article is not
sufficient. Believing that a disclaimer makes it pos-
sible to print whatever you want is simply not just
or right.

We ask you to carefully consider what you
publish in a community as small as ours. Wash-
ington and Lee student publications are called to a
higher principle than what we have recently seen.

Please put more thought into what you print
in the future.

Sincerely,
The Executive Committee of the Student Body

 

INIONS

  

MONDAY, MARCH 22, 2004

Anger over Honor System cynicism

DearEditor,

Last night, while at Pi Phi fraternity, vari-
ous people encouraged me to sign a petition.
Upon reading this sheet of paper covered in
signatures, I was first confused and then an-
gered. Ms. Brenda Hartless, whom I suppose
Pi Phi hired as their sober official as they of-
ten do, elicited signatures from many of the
students at the party. Now, this petition read
something like this, “I have lied or been lied
to while a student at Washington and Lee.”
My first complaint lies in the manner that Ms.
Hartless carried out this petitioning. Person-
ally, I believe that something as potentially
important as this petition has absolutely no
place at a band party at a fraternity house,
and especially when she requests the signa-
tures of drunk people. My second objection
lies in the principle for which this petition cir-
culated. I believe in Washington and Lee’s
Honor Code. Call me naive, but I still believe
what my tour guide, interviewers, and the
alumni told me made W&L so wonderful, that
the'Honor Code governs the school. At a time
when the administration has proven its pow-
ers to govern student life are wider than we
ever imagined (boys, how was hell week...?),
I believe we should think twice before ques-
tioning one of the only institutions that re-
mains completely student run. Do we really
want to tell them that we, as students of Wash-
ington and Lee, are not trustworthy? Please
think again. I desperately hope that this
poorly carried out petition carries no weight,
and that our faith in the Honor System is re-
newed.

Sincerely,
Tippins Stone, ‘07

W&L Girls easy on the eyes

Dear Editor,

Every week we at W&L are titillated by the
Phi ’s Quick Hits. I can’t imagine a better way of
displaying journalistic excellence than having a
section for random shout—outs and insults.

I was particularly titillated by the editor's
decision to print not one, not two, no, five
Quick Hits last week lashing out at the “ter-
rible girls” of W&L. Unfortunately, the writer
of said Hits neglected to realize that nearly
every female at W&L is over 18—giving her
the right to buy cigarettes, consent to sex
with frat guys, and be called a woman. The
Quick Hits claim that Tim Smith has “missed
the little man running rampant with the ugly
stick.” Hmm, I must not have been paying
attention, because I missed him too. Maybe I
shouldjgo look for him in Red Square or
Davidson Park, because I haven’t seen him
around Sorority Row lately. Anyone who
looks through the W&L Facebook or the Ca-
lyx will realize that we at W&L are blessed
with one of the most attractive female student
bodies on the East Coast and probably any-
where. Not only are women here attractive,
they are about 95 percent more likely to prac-
tice such habits as daily grooming, shower-
ing, getting regular haircuts, laundering
clothes, and actually paying attention to style
than fraternity .men at W&L. If you think
women here are unattractive, please, try visit-
ing some other campuses in the area. I’ve
been to Richmond, Wake Forest, Chapel Hill,
NC State University, Davidson College—
frankly, no one compares.

Although the writer dreads the day he “will
be stuck in a room with three W&L girls,” I
seriously doubt that that will ever happen if
this is his attitude towards women in general.

Let’s face it—no woman likes to be told she is
terrible or annoying. I could say that all men
here suck, but I truly believe that buried be-
neath that frat hair are some great minds, and
buried underneath that North Face there are
some hotties. Making gender generalizations
is never cool or tough, especially when such
generalizations only serve to enrage Srat
Lords. The self—proclaimed judge of women
at W&L obviously hasn’t realized that most
of the Big Men on Campus here date W&L
women. What does that make our friendly
Quick Hits writer? My sources say JEALOUS.

Sincerely,
Susan Somers ‘05

Letters to the Editor

Write in to the Phi at
phi@wlu.edu or
andersonc@wlu.edu. Entries
on nearly any responsible
subject will be printed by the
editor The Ring—tum Phi re-
serves the right to edit entries
for spelling, grammar, clarity,
and space. Some letters may
not be printed if there are
constraints on space.

<l><l>¢

Concept of female virginity reveals gender double standard

I just read anlarticle that

spoken word:

once you’ve to them, and there should not

simply made me cringe. There
is a fairly new procedure out
called hymenoplasty, which is a
surgical procedure that recon-
structs the hymen in a woman’s
body in order to restore her vir-
ginity. There are several both-
ersome things about the exist-
ence of such a procedure.

First of all, the selling point
is that this procedure will magi-
cally give you
back your virgin-
ity just like a
bottle of expen-
sive skin cream
would restore your skin to its
former youthful appearance.
Though I am somewhat skepti-
cal of the skin creams being able
to do this, I am absolutely skep-
tical of hymenoplasty restoring
a woman’s virginity.

Yes, you do get your hymen
back, but do you really have
your virginity back? It’s just
plastic surgery, and virginity is

much more than the breakage of

a hymen. It’s a state of mind.
Once you have lost your virgin-
ity, you in essence have blos-
somed into an adult (at least I
hope so) and are now a mature
young person. It is an experi-
ence that you do not want to
forget, and once it is done, it is
done forever.

Though hymenoplasty will
give you a new and some say
better hymen, you can never al-
ter your memory of that moment
in which you lost your virgin-

ity. You can’t take your loss of

virginity back. It’s like an ill-

TRA1No1= THOUGHTS
TRANKIM ‘O5

  I Student Discounts

said it, you can’t take it back,
regardless of how much you
apologize. Hymenoplasty sim-
ply creates a fantasy world in
which you think you are a vir-
gin, but in reality, you’re re-
ally not.

But the more pressing
concern is why are these
women performing this sur-
gery? The main reason seems
to be that
they are
ashamed of
having had a
sexual en-
counter before marriage and
feel as if they have depreci-
ated in value like a stock in
Enron. I didn’t think this
mentality still existed, but the
fact that such a procedure ex-
ists to restore a woman’s vir-
ginity proves me wrong. In-
deed, our society has not
progressed as much as I
thought. Women have finally
attained their deserved place
in politics, business, and
education, but they are still
restrained in the bedroom.

Sexuality is a natural hu-
man characteristic for both
men and women, and both
men and women have equal
rights to express their sexu-
ality in whatever way they
wish. Society seems to think
that men somehow have more
range in the sexual arena, but
that was so seventeenth cen-
tury. This is the twenty—first
century in which women can
be as sexual as the man next

be any criticisms towards
their behavior.

If you are one of those
people who criticize women for
being sexually active but not
men for similar behaviors, you
are a hypocrite. What gives a
man more right to go around
the block than a woman? The
existence of a penis is not a
valid reason because I will
trump that argument with the
existence of breasts. I have
also heard the argument that
that is what guys are like. Well
my response is well that’s
what women are like as well.
Men may have testosterone
but women have estrogen. I
think you’re getting my point.

So this belief that women
should be so ashamed if they’re
not virgins that they’ve got to
undergo surgery to hide their
actions needs to change. First
of all, shamefulness is merely a
state of mind. You are only as
shameful as you feel ashamed.
In everything you do, if you do
it with conviction, then people
will seldom criticize you.

People are quick to criti-
cize others not because of
what they do but how they do
it and how they act after do-
ing it. If you act weak and
appeared ashamed, then you
will undoubtedly attract
shameful reactions from your
peers. I have done many stu-

pid and embarrassing things .

in my life, but I have never felt
ashamed or embarrassed be-
cause the things I do define

who I am. I am known for be-
ing outspoken and stubborn
by my friends andl do and say
things they may feel embar-
rassed about if they had done
it themselves, but I do not be-
cause of a little thing called
conviction.

For the most part, people.
have no idea why they’re criti-
cizing you and just do it be-
cause society would do the
same, but if you act with a
sense of conviction and are
convinced that what you do is
perfectly fine, your peers will
also be convinced. It’s all
about marketing.

Second of all, you should feel
ashamed because of your own
values not because of other
people’s values. Ifyou value your
virginity and you lose it haphaz-
ardly, then yes, maybe you should
feel bad because you are betray-
ing yourself. But if you wanted to
have sex and you feel good about
having had it, then don’t let other
people rain on your parade.

To allow them to cast
shame on you is a surrender of
power. You no longer have con-
trol over your self—worth be-
cause someone else has deter-
mined how valuable you are as
a person. Each of us is valuable
simply because. We do not earn
value points as we do certain
things like you earn mileage
points on a credit card. You
should live for yourself and by
your own values. Living by any-
one else’s moral standards is to
not live as the person you were
created to be.

PHOTO TEY OF 1 I H ‘

THE RIGHT ANSWER? Can surgery really restore a woman’s virginity? The
controversial surgery promises a new start for women, but questions
about different standards for men and women remain unanswered.

Project

Emergency Hotline

540-463 -25 94

Avalanla 24 |IlI||l'8 8 day, 7 IIIIVS II WHK.

HIlI'iZﬂlI

Your ad could be here!

Contact phi—business@wlu.edu to place an ad.’

 

309 N. Win St.

]'_eXj_r1gt:or1, VA 24450

 

  

-44

]OHNHYl.Al\D
AssrrANrSPoRisEi)iroR
FMAII.-HYLAND]1@wwE)U

‘”fl~lERll\lG~1’UMl’I~ll

MONDAY, MARCH 22, 2004

PORTS

PAGE 5'

Men’s lacrosse gets two doses of much-needed confidence

cat-like reﬂexes that are often re-

BY CAMERON GARNER
STAFF WRITER

Finally, the scoring touch
has returned. After scoring a
combined 12 goals in their last
three games, the Generals needed
a rout to get them ﬁred up in the
early stages of the season. The
men played Colorado College on
Wednesday, more than doubling
their output in the last two games.
Ok, Colorado College isn’t ex-
actly top-10, but I think every-
one will agree with me when I ask,
“who cares?”

The Generals were led by
senior midﬁelder Dustin Martin,
who scored three goals and had
an assist, and his linemate senior
Mark McLewee, who notched
two goals and an assist. The end
of the first half indicated the
strides the team has made in just
a week, as they scored two goals
in the ﬁnal 1 1 seconds of the first
half. The ﬁrst tally came from Re-
naissance man, senior Rich Will-
iams, off a great feed from
Mcbewee. Irrirnediately after Wil-
liarns’ goal, junior midﬁelder Mike
Barracco won the draw cleanly
and, with the help of junior
attackman Bah “I take it strong
to the rack” Dy, exhibited what is
often called “the give-and—go.”
The Generals also got some much
needed scoring help from seniors

w.“..;¥¥U¥!l"-"

STEVEN MARINOS / TbeRirzgtumPbi

GETTING BACK ON TRACK. After a disappointing start to the season, the men’s lacrosse team began rebuilding its conﬁdence with two wins this past
Week. On Wednesday, the team easily defeated Colorado College 12-4, and on Saturday, the team won a tight won, 9-8, against Mary Washington.

Mike McNamara, Matt Fink,
Baracco, and junior midﬁelder Pat
Collins.

Senior Goalie Ansel Sanders
played another. . .ok you know
what, everyone knows he played

great game, so I’ll spare the art
here. As usual, Ansel turned
away shot after shot, totalling 9
saves on 12 shots (for you En-
glish majors, that’s a .750 save
percentage - very very good).

Lost in a myriad of great stories
— yet another great performance
from Ansel, renewed scoring con-
ﬁdence bolstered by Dustin and
McLewee’s goals — there is but
one story left to tell. Perhaps the

greatest story of the Colorado
game was the triumphant return
of former Feb—break all-star and
junior goalie Pat Casey. As we
all expected, when Pat was called
upon, he responded. With his

ferred to as “the best in the
game” and his incredible

celebratory gestures, he racked:

up 2 saves en route to a .667 save

percentage. That dirt, Pat, is off

your shoulders for good.

On Saturday, the Generals
hosted Mary Washington, the
last game before conference play
starts this upcoming Saturday.

The Generals, tied at 2 at halftime, 7

got out of the gates early in the

second half, roaring to a 5 goal‘

lead, only to see it shrink to one
as time expired. W&L scored 5

. .

unanswered in the ﬁrst 4: 16 of the A

game, but couldn't respond as
Mary Washington notched 3 of

their own, bringing the game un- _

necessarily close at 7-5. From'- 5'

here, Martin scored off a feed
from McLewee, but the Eagles (3-
2) got two in extra-man situations

to close the lead to one goal. After " V

another goal from senior
attackman Matt Fink, the Eagles
closed out the scoring with 23
seconds left. Ultimately, the Gen-
erals ran out the clock and es-
caped with a 9-8 win.

Fink paced the Generals with

4 goals and an assist, while se- ,
nior middie Mike Macnamara had '

a goal and dished out 4 assists.

‘The Generals need to maintain
this momentum as they look— j

ahead to their ﬁrst conference
game at Lynchburg on Saturday.

Baseball team remains undefeated in ODAC with three victories
Dean breaks another ODAC record

BY JOHN HYLAND
AssisTANT SPORTS EDITOR

The W&L baseball team was busy last week,
playing four games in four days. However, the
Generals were up to the task, going 3-1, with all of
their wins coming in conference play, and drop-
ping their lone loss to Shenandoah in a non-con-
ference match-up. The team’s record now stands at
an impressive 13-5, 7-0 ODAC.

The Generals began their week with a home
game against Roanoke on Wednesday. The tum-
ing point in the game came in the bottom of the
sixth inning when starting pitcher Bryan Mulhem
helped his own cause by blasting a two—run homer
to centerﬁeld to give the Generals the lead. It was
the senior ’s fourth team-leading homer of the sea-
son. W&L would get the eventual game winning
run later in the inning with sophomore first baseman
Taylor McConnell’s solo home run to give his team

a 4-1 lead. Mulhem did the rest from the mound,
allowing two runs over seven innings to earn a 6-3
victory. Mulhem also led the way offensively, ﬁn-
ishing the game 2 for 3 with two RBIs and two runs
scored.

The team travelled to Shenandoah on Thurs-
day. The Generals again trailed in this game after
the Hornets scored in four-of the first ﬁve innings
to take a 4-0 lead, but the only offense W&L could
muster was Mu1hem’s two run single in the sixth.
Shenandoah scored three more runs in the eighth
to seal their third straight victory by the score of 7-
2. Junior catcher Zach Bausch and senior short-
stop Austin Allain had two hits a piece, but the
Generals mustered little additional offense. Senior
righthander Mike Wert suffered the loss to drop
his record to 2-3 on the year.

The Generals got back on track in Saturday’s
doubleheader against ODAC foe Eastern Menno-
nite at Cap’n Dick Smith Field. In the first game, the

Ritter, Ginder named All-Americans

W&L SPORTS RELEASE

ST. PETERS, Mo. — Senior Eric Ritter (Bir-
mingham, Ala./Mountain Brook) and freshman
Michael Ginder (Jacksonville, Fla./Episcopal)
both earned All-America
honors on Friday at the
NCAA Division III Swim
Championships held at
Principia College.

Ritter, seeded seventh
inthe 100-Back after setting
a school record in the mom-
ing preliminaries with a
51.32 clocking, touched the
wall in 51.07 in the finals to

 

America recognition for
the third straight season.

Ginder, seeded fifth
in the 200—Free after the
morning preliminaries,
ﬁnished fourth in the ﬁ-
nals with a school record
time of1:4l.13 toeamA1l-
America honors in his _ H
first season as a General. MICHEL GINDEK

On Thursday Ritter
placed 45th in the 50—Free preliminaries with a time
of 21.68 and Ginder placed 32nd in the 500—Free
preliminaries with a time of 4:43.50.

Both swimmers return to action tomorrow as
Ritter competes in the 200—Back and Ginder com-

  

Generals sent out senior pitcher Peter Dean, who

earlier in the year had become W&L’s career leader

in wins and was looking to become the ODAC’s
career leader. Dean did not leave
the record in doubt. The south-
paw scattered six hits and four
strikeouts over the complete
seven innings and did not allow
a run.

It was his second shutout and
fourth complete game of the sea-
son improving his record to an im-
pressing 6-0. Yet, the Generals
held a slim 1-0 lead entering the
fifth inning, but the team scored
twice in the fifth and once in the
sixth to give Deain a little breath-
ing room, with the ﬁnal score be-

 

In the nightcap, the Generals were once again
involved in a close game in the early innings. W&L
held a 1-0 lead when freshman leftﬁelder belted his
second home run of the year to
spark a four run inning, en route
to a 5-0 win. Once again, the Gen-
erals got a superb effort from the
mound as Kagey, an offensive
hero in Game 1, pitched a tliree—
hitter and earned his first
shoutout and complete game of
the season. The righthander

to 4-0 on the year. Garland fm—
ished the game 2 for 3 with an
RBI and a run. He was aided by
his classmate, designated hittter

   

mg 4-0. Offensively, the Generals
were led by sophomore second
baseman Scott Gosselink who
went 2 for 3 with an RBI and a run scored. Senior
leftﬁelder Dan Kagey went 2 for 3 with an RBI.

COUR Ts INFORMATION
SENIOR PETER DEAN.

with an RBI and two runs scored.

farmed six to improve his record .

David Miller, who went 2 for 4 i i

The first place Generals will get 7 -

their best ODAC test of the sea-

son when they travel to perennial power ,

Bridgewater on Wednesday.

Track competes at VCU Invitational

W&L SPORTS RELEASE

RICHMOND, Va. — The Washington and Lee
men’s and women’s track and ﬁeld teams were in
action on Saturday afternoon at the VCU Ram In-
vitational where they competed against Division
I, H and HI Competition.

The W&L women’s team was paced by three
athletes who placed first among Division HI com-
petitors at the meet. Junior Emily Barker (Clifton,
Va./Mount Vernon) took home first place honors
in the shot put with a toss of 37 feet 0.01 inches, a
new. personal record. Senior Angel Daniels
(Charleston, S.C./Porter-Gaud) took top honors
in the high jump with a leap of 4 feet 10 inches,

Capistrano, Calif./Dana Hills) placed first in the 100
hurdles with a time of 16:40. Sophomore Mary Chris-
topher (Fort Lauderdale, Fla./Cardinal Gibbons)
rounded out the W&L leaders with a second place
showing in the 1,500 meters (5:02.20).

On the men’s side, junior Nathan Johnson
(Lexington, Va./Rockbridge County) placed third

V 4

among Division III competitor’s and fourth over- . -

all in the 5,000 meters with a 15:16.31 clocking.
Junior Chris Walker (Franklin, Mass./Paul VI) was

second among Division III athletes in the shot —

put with a toss of 11.93 meters, while senior
Jonathan Brimer (Dandridge, Tenn./Jefferson
County) ﬁnished second against D-III competi-
tion in the 100 meters (1 1.67).

Washington and Lee returns to action on Sat? ’

0 M Tennis at

I Swarthmore--11 :00

0 W Tennis vs. Redland --
10:00

9 Track at VCU Invita-
tional-- TBA

0 Golf at Camp Lejeune--
TBA

° Track at Bridgewater
Invitational-- TBA

finish seventh and earn A1l- petes in the 100-Free. while freshman Sara Behmerwohld (San Juan urday as it competes inthe Bridgewater Invitational.
THIS W EEK ’ s S CF EDULE
Tuesday, March 23 Wednesday, March 24 Thursday, March 25 Friday, March 26 Saturday, March 27 Sunday, March .28
0 Open 0 Baseball at 0 W Tennis vs. DePauw-- 0 Golf at Camp Lejeune- 0 Baseball at Virginia 0 W Tennis vs. Rhodes--
Bridgewater--3 :00 4:00 -T BA Wesleyan (DH )--1 2:00 12:00
0 W Lax at Bridgewater-- 0 M Lax at Lynchburg-- 0 M Tennis at Washing-
4:00 2:00 ton College--10:30
0 W Tennis vs. Santa 0 W Lax vs. Catholic-- 0 Golf at Camp Lejeune--
Cruz--4:00 2:00 TBA

 

 

    

PAGE 6

Sihirs

  MONDAY, MARCH 22, 2004

Tennis teams rack up wins to keep up ODAC records

Women’s tennis extends
near perfect record

BY JANE BEALL
STAFF WRITER

The Generals, rebounding from their heartbreak-
ing 4-5 loss to ﬁfth-ranked Denison University on
Sunday, swept their three ODAC opponents this
week, extending their conference record to 10-0.

The Generals easily handled Randolph-Macon
Women’s College 9-0 at home this past Tuesday,
with Liz Law, Ingrid Easton, Catherine Torrey Stroud,
and Laura Neller shutting down their respective
opponents without dropping a game. The squad
split on Thursday, taking on Randolph Macon away
while hosting Sweet Briar.

Neither opponent put up much of a ﬁght, both
falling to the Generals 9-0. Despite the team’s stead-
fast first-place ranking in the ODAC, sophomore
Patty Roberts noted that the in-conference matches
are often the hardest to play. “It’s easy to lose
focus and take these other teams for granted,” Rob-
erts said, “but I was impressed at the team’s sup-
port and enthusiasm throughout the entire week.”

On Saturday, the Generals played host to three
out of conference teams, overcoming all three with
little resistance. Patricia Brooks of Agnes Scott Col-
lege defeated junior Liz McCraken, playing in the
number one slot, wrestling away the only match given
up by the Generals the entire weekend. \V1th thee
forfeits, the Generals took the win 8-1. Kalamazoo
College fell next, 9-0. Number one Lindsay Hagerrnan
took her match 6- 1, 6-0 and then, with freshman part-
ner Ginny Wortharn won a close doubles match 8-6.

In their ﬁnal and most important competition
of the day, the Generals faced Mary Washington
College. A victory in this match was crucial to have

a chance to host the regional round of NCAA’s,
and stepping up to the challenge, the Generals
swept the 30th-ranked Eagles.

Looking ahead, Washington and Lee will host
the Fab Five tournament beginning this Wednes-
day at 4:00. Six top—twenty teams will come from as

W&L SPORTS RELEASE

LEXINGTON, Va. — Eighth-ranked Mary Washington used a 5-
3 halftime advantage to outlast 10th-ranked Washington and Lee, 7-
6, in non-conference women’s lacrosse on Saturday afternoon.

Following the mid-game break, the Generals (6-2) were first to
ﬁnd the net as senior midﬁelder Lee Wheeler (Baltimore, Md./Bryn
Mawr) scored her second goal of the game off an assist by senior
attacker Kelly Taffe (Charlottesville, Va./Albemarle) at 26:58 to make
it 5-4 in MWC’s favor.

The Eagles (4-2) responded at 19: 19 when freshman
midfielder Jackie Rose (Medford, N .J ./Shawnee) found the net
for her third goal of the day, this time off an assist by junior
attacker Britt Gottlieb (Middlebury, Vt./Phillips Academy) to
give MWC a 6-4 lead.

far as California and Massachusetts in this week-
long event. Sophomore Lisa Mabry commented,
“We’re really looking forward to the Fab Five. It’s
a really unique opportunity to play some of the
best competition from all over the nation and see
how you match up.”

Women’s lacrosse falls to Mary Washington

The Generals countered with a free position goal by freshman
midﬁelder Kelly Evans (Lexington, Va./Rockbridge County) at 18:51,
but freshman midfielder Stephanie Hearn (Kennebunk, Mainel
Kennebunk) pushed the Eagles’ lead back to 7-5 with a goal at 10:01.

Taffe converted an assist by Wheeler to pull W&L back within 7-6
with 1:06 remaining, but the Generals were unable to ﬁnd the goal again.

Wheeler and Taffe both recorded two goals and an assist for
W&L, while sophomore attacker Amanda Strickler (Lexington, Va./
Rockbridge County) and Evans each added one goal in the loss. Se-
nior J oarma Perini (Huntington, N .Y./I-Iuntington) recorded eight saves

in goal for the Generals.

Rose led the Eagles with three goals, while Gottlieb scored two
goals and dished out one assist. Sophomore Robyn Lankford (Fairfax,

Va./Fairfax) made 14 saves for MWC.

STEVEN os / TbeRing-tum hi
GETTING SET. Chris Kimmel, right, and K.C. Schaefer prepare for a serve in their 8-3 victory over Mary Washington
opponents. Although the mens’ tennis team lost to Mary Washington, it still remains undefeated in the ODAC.

Men’s tennis beats
Lynchburg, loses to
Mary Washington

BY JANE BEALL
STAFF WRIIER

Ranked 8th in the nation and first
in the ODAC, the men’s tennis team ex-
tended its undefeated conference
record to 5-0, sweeping Lynchburg Col-
lege away last Thursday. Washington
and Lee’s athlete of the week Paul
McClure won both his singles and
doubles matches, giving up only two
games in each. Sophomore Charles
Anderson defeated Lynchburg’s Matt
Greene in two sets, 6-0, 6-0.

Saturday’s match against the
Eagles from Mary Washington College
proved to be much more difficult.
Ranked 9th, a place behind the Gener-
als, the Eagles won four of the six singles
matches and one of the three doubles
matches. Sophomore David Shay and
senior Austin Kim were the only Gener-
als to chalk up singles victories.

Despite Sat11rday’s 3-4 loss, Shay is
optimistic. “Over the next few weekends
we have several really important matches
against teams like Swarthmore and Wash-
ington College,” he said. “I think the team, as a
whole, is playing really well right now and with con-
ﬁdence. Hopefully, we will be able to continue play-
ing well and win these big matches.” The Generals
will take a week off of match play before traveling
north to Swarthmore to take on the Garnet.

Courmasr SPORTS INroRMATroN

Gritter offers picks for this season’s top fantasy baseball sleepers

BY RYAN GRITTER
STAFF WRTIER

Fantasy baseball is rather unique from its foot-
ball and basketball counterparts because of player
development. The fact that certain players blos-
som while others do not is part of what makes the
beginning of the season so exciting. This fact is
also what ultimately determines the winners of fan-
tasy leagues across the nation. VV1th the amount
of positions and players out there, fantasy base-
ball requires one to pick the players on the
verge of breaking out (a.k.a. “sleepers”
for those of you who have no idea
what that is). Anyone can pick a
Pujols, Bonds, or A-rod. These
picks are obvious, but finding the
productive starter in the 12th
round of the draft is significantly
more challenging. There are far
too many sleepers out there for
all of them to be named, but I will
highlight a few names at each posi-
tion to look for in your time of need late
in the draft. . ...picks that will get you laughed
at initially and then praises (and paid?) at the end
of the season.

Catcher — At the catcher position there are
several producers, but because the list drops off
sharply it would not be a bad idea to take a guy like
Posada in the early rounds. If looking for one in
late rounds, have a look at Ben Molina of the An-
gels (.28 1-14-71) and Victor Martinez of the Indi-
ans. Martinez batted .289 in limited time last year
but will be the everyday starter this year and should

  

        
   
  
 

FANTASY
BASEBALL
PICKS

put up solid numbers. Also Greg Myers of the
Blue Jays (.307-15-52) will, at the least, bit for a
solid average. All three of these guys should last
until very late in the draft but should be fine for
starting.

First Base — First base is not a position where
you particularly want to wait and hope for a sleeper.
Try to get one of the many run-producing machines
at this position. If you are forced to make do with
a sleeper, you would be surprised how late David
Ortiz (that’s right. . ..the MVP Candidate) has been

going. Going one step down, Nick Johnson
won’t go high because of his lack of
power, but he was among the lead-
ers in the league in OBP last sea-
son while healthy. Mark Teixeira
will also be available, but would
really be more valuable as a third
baseman. (For more on Teixeira
see Third Base)
Second Base — At second base
there is surprising depth this year.
Marcus Giles, who is clearly one of
the top three offensive second
baseman could be left as late as the tenth
round, with Michael Young of the Rangers (.306-
14-72) available even later. For the late-round
backups, have a look at D’Angelo Jimenez of
the Reds and Orlando Hudson of the Blue Jays,
both of whom should build’ on their successful
breakouts last year.

Third Base — At third base is the greatest
sleeper in the draft in my opinion, Mark Teixeira.
Teixeira had very solid numbers last year (.259-26-
84) for a rookie with minimal time in the minors.

In The Country
4 Bedrooms
2 Baths
June 15,2005
1.5 miles on Rt. 60 East

“Jaws”

Daytime Phone: 540-463-5383
Nighttime Phone: 540-463-5654

House for Rent

Lease goes from June 15, 2004 to

spur‘ ..... on

    

1-.800-648--18:59 I wvm.s1:trmcL(om

What makes Teixeira even more attractive is his
steady improvement throughout the season. For
much of the year he sat around the .240 mark, but
seemed to figure out major league pitching in the
last month or so, raising his average and power
production dramatically. Teixeira has dominated
each level he’s been in quickly and there is no rea-
son to think that things should be any different in
the majors. Beyond Teixeira there aren’t many qual-
ity sleepers. Sean Burroughs of the Padres (and
the 1991 and 1992 Little League World Series
Champs) could be a great pickup if his power con-
tinues to develop. Eric Munson of the Tigers will
only be improving as the lineup strengthens and
gains experience.

Shortstop — Many quality, young shortstops
will be available in late rounds and will provide a
solid solution if you don’t happen to be fortu-
nate enough to get one of the top four or five.
Angel Berroa had a spectacular rookie season
(.287-17-73) and should become one of the top
offensive shortstops next year. Alex Cintron had
a breakout year (.317-13-51) for the Diamond-
backs and can also be played at third, which
makes him a great late pick as a backup, if not as
a starter. Jose Reyes is hardly a sleeper anymore
but would be a good pick if still available late. If
you get really desperate, rookies Bobby Crosby
of the A’s and Tyler Greene of the Padres should
provide solid production in a backup role.

Outfield — Some of the sleepers this year in
the outﬁeld will come in the form of big names look-
ing for comeback years, such as Shawn Green,
Lance Berkman, and Juan Gonzalez. As for lesser
known players, Milton Bradley (.32l- 10-56) will be

available late and is a budding superstar, as is Corey
Patterson (.298-13-55). Marlon Byrd will be solid
as he hits for more power, and look for Jody Gerut
and Austin Keams to drop to late rounds as well.

Starting Pitcher — It isn’t necessary to dip
into the average starters this year as plenty will
be available late to build a solid staff. Roy Oswalt
of the Astros has been going much later than he
should, and his teammate Tim Redding is also a
solid pick. A.J. Burnett seems to be back to full
strength for the Marlins, and C.C. Sabathia has
gone surprisingly late for a young, hard throw-
ing ace. Joel Piniero of the Mariners and Brian
Anderson of the Royals should both be very
solid starters available after the 10th round. Look
at Jeremy Bonderrnan of the Tigers, who devel-
oped well last season while getting pounded, and
Matt Riley, who should win the 4th slot in the
Orioles rotation.

Relief Pitchers — The closer position can
get people into trouble, since there simply aren’t
that many available. Danny Kolb of the Brewers
and Mike MacDougal of the Royals both will be
late picks that should get plenty of saves. One
must also remember that Shawn Chacon of the
Rockies will become their closer, and after fifteen
days will be listed as one, so if you have that
sort of time he would be a fantastic pick up in
late rounds. Chacon might even be available with
your last pick so look for him if you need pitch-
ing. Jorge Julio of the Orioles should also get
plenty of saves, as he did last year collecting 36.
Danys Baez of the Devil Rays is playing for a
crappy team, which should make his save count
all the more plentiful. ‘

Support

Athletics

Generals’

with the program!

_wwiAL.;amnus_f_undraisenc_om

Fraternities -- Sororities

Clubs -- Student Groups
Earn $1,000-$2,000 this semester with a proven
CampusFundraiser 3 hour fundraising event. Our
free programs make fundraising easy with no
risks. Fundraising dates are ﬁlling quickly, so get
"It works.
CampusFundraiser at (888) 923-3238, or visit

Contact

    

)'

 

 

PAGE 7

Students deal with terrorism as they

BY SARAH MURRAY
SENIOR STAFF WRITER

With terrorism appearing to be on the
rise across the world, government agencies
are advocating caution in traveling over-
seas. But Washington and Lee students
going abroad this spring term refuse to be
daunted by the threat of a possible terror-
ism attack.

“Tragedy should make us aware, not
afraid,” said junior Timothy Waddell.

In an email to students going abroad,
Director of International Education William
Klingelhofer called the events a “grim re-
minder that terrorist attacks can occur any-
where, at any time, despite the vigilance of
our own or other countries.” Klingelhofer
assured students that they “anticipate no
significant changes in the program’s itin-
erary or activities.”

Sophomore Kristin Evans was relieved
to hear that her trip to London has been
arranged so that students will not take the
Underground during rush hour. As a re-
sult, Evans, who is studying theater, will
see plays during the day and on weekdays.
But while the precautions have eased her
anxiety, it doesn’t completely erase the
possibilities of an attack.

“What ifl walk into a train station and
it blows up? What do I do?” asked Evans.
Evans had planned to visit Spain during

iikmiiipiét

her stay in England, but has decided in the
wake of the Madrid attack to visit only Paris
and Ireland.

Kate Zawyrucha, a sophomore bound
for Spain, isn’t as concerned. Zawyrucha

lives near New York City and has faced more

than just a slight threat of terrorist attack.
“I guess I’m kind of desensitized...it’s not
going to faze me,” said Zawyrucha.

Zawyrucha also plans to travel to Rus-
sia over spring break with the wind en-
semble and to Denmark next fall. Several of
the areas she will visit have been bombed
in the past year, but she has no trouble
keeping her sense of humor, saying, “I
guess it’s a good thing they make us get
insurance!”

Sophomore Courtney Harrison received
a shock when she heard about the bombing
in Madrid—her group had planned to meet
outside the train station that was bombed.
Harrison doesn’t believe that an event of
that magnitude will happen again while
they’re there, but the coincidence made her
“more conscious of the possibility.”

For Waddell, the tragedies throw into
sharper relief the politics of the situation.
Waddell is not concerned with the possi-
bility of an attack during his trip to En-
gland, but he is “more aware of what I’d
like to see change in the way that our coun-
try works and the way that we are viewed
around the world.”

LIFE

    

  

, ARlS&LIPEED1TOR.,..
mm m ,1.
MONDAY, MARCH 22, 2004 . j 

prepare to travel abroad

STUDY A BROAD? WZSCL students pose for a picture in front of Madrid’s Palace Real during a 1999.

“I don’t think it is necessary for us to
be frightened by in the least by terrorism,”
said Waddell. “It is far more likely that a
bee sting will kill you.”

The political effects also interest Pro-
fessor Troy Prinkey, who is leading the
group to Spain this term along with Pro-
fessor Cecile West—Settle. “The country
has suffered its most significant brush
with terrorism, and...has experienced a

Hull’s Drive-in Theatre celebrates ﬁfth season

BY CHRIS LAUDERMAN
ASSISTANT ARTS 8: LIFE EDITOR

The year 2004 marks the
fifth season for Lexington’s
Hull’s Drive-In Theatre. Hull’s
is the first community owned,
non-profit drive-in in the
country.

The drive-in originally
opened on August 5, 1950. In
1957, the A
Hull family
bought the
drive-in and
ran it for the

edge the Angels. Last sea-
son there were 640 Angels.
The drive-in wants people to
be aware of who makes the
drive-in work.

On Saturday, March 27,
Hull’s Drive—In will show its
annual sneak preview to all
Angels ati7 p.m. This year,
Finding Nemo will be shown.
“This is the test run of the sea-

clubs to Lexington to partici-
pate in the parade, but any car
is welcome.

During the first three
years _of operation, Hull’s
drive—in did well and made ex-
tra money. Last year, how-
ever, Hull’s took in a loss.
Sheffield attributes the lower
attendance to the large
amount of rain. The number
of rainy weekends
in 2002 was eight,
but in 2003 it rose

result of the loss

next forty of revenue, Hull’s
years. will be raising
With the ticket prices this
death of season to $5 for a
Sebert Hull double feature.
in 1998, Opening
came the night is April 2.
death of the Hull’s will be

drive-in. A
group of
Rockbridge
citizens, led
by Eric and
Elise Sheffield, formed the
non-profit group, Hull’s An-
gels in1999. The only require-
ment to becoming a Hull’s An-
gel and part owner of the
drive-in is to pay an annual
fee of $5.

In commemoration of five
years in business, a three
minute film will be shown at
the beginning of each night.
It will show the history of the
drive-in and then acknowl-

 

son, so nothing is guaran-
teed,” said Elise Sheffield,
Secretary of the Hull’s Angels
Board of Directors.

The third annual Opening
Weekend Car Parade, hosted
by Hull’s, will kick off season
five on Saturday, April 3. “In
Spain, there is the running of
the bulls, in Lexington, there
is the running of the
Chevrolets,” said Sheffield.
Hull’s wants to bring in car

s h o w i n g
Cheaper by the
Dozen followed
by Master and
C 0 m m a n d e r .
Sheffield said that she was
unsure if The Passion of the
Christ would be coming to
the drive—in, but she believes
that it will come to the screen,
if not from the Angels, then
by a church group.

Hull’s would love for stu-
dents to get involved with the
drive—in. To become a Hull’s
Angel or to check out what
will be playing at the drive-in,
go to www.hullsdrivein.com.

to eighteen. Asa

      
 

Home for  le

4 N. MAIN ST., LEXINGTON, VA

Built circa 1880 an Institute Hill, now completely restored with
modern plumbing, wiring, heating, windows and new appliances.
New carpeting in all main rooms plus stenciled wood ﬂoors.

4 Bedrooms, 1 1/2 Baths, Livingroom/Diningroom, all new
kitchen plus a large utility/ofﬁce Room. Large third ﬂoor
storage room and an attached outside storage area.

Two large front porches and beautiful old stone walls on
terraced landscaping.

Easy walk to VMI, Washington and Lee or downtown shopping.
Private lane access and parking. Taxes $400 yearly.
Asking $229,000.

(540) 464-3738
or
(540) 460-47 1 8

Tom James Company

Interviews?
lntemship?
Special occasion?

Let ushelp you look and feel
your best!!

Custom and Ready Made Suits
and Sports Coats

Shirts, pants, shoes and all accessories

Student Packages &
Gi t Certi icates Available

Contact Adam Williams
for an appointment or
with questions

540-815-4557

Adam.Williams@tomjamesretail.com

Parking a problem for W&L students*-

major political shift,” said Prinkey, refer-
ring to the Madrid bombing and the fol-

lowing change of power between major }:.

political parties. “It will be interesting to
gauge the everyday Spaniard’s opinion on
both issues.”

“This is going to be an exceptional mo-
ment for us to be in Spain, and I hope our

students are looking forward to it as much 

as I am,” Prinkey said.

Administration must take steps to make parking easier and safer

BY KATE GUY
CONTRIBUTING EDITOR

It’s 9:45 on a weekday morning.
Fifteen cars with C stickers are cir-
cling the floors of the Parking Ga-
rage like vultures, hoping to catch
one person leaving a spot open. As
usual, no spots open, and the cir-
cling cars are forced to park outside

.of the Garage. . , .

Back when the Lenfest lots were
available, this was not a serious
problem. However, with the continu-
ing removal of countless parking
spots around campus, students are
forced to park in residential areas of
town. They then have to walk to
class, which would not have been a
problem had
they left 15
minutes ear-
lier. But as
they don’t find
a place to park
until 10:00,
they arrive ten
minutes late,
d i s r u p t i n g
their teachers
and fellow stu-
dents. The
lack of spots
in the Parking
Garage is a
problem that
needs to stop.

The most course ‘there
important is- needplacestopark,buttherearenotas are ‘A Slmple . .
sue ‘in the many spots availabel» solution would
parkmg Ga_ be to relocate

rage is the lack

of enforcement. People with no
stickers or with stickers that don’t
allow Parking Garage access park
there regularly. If Security would
enforce its own rules and ticket or
tow those who are illegally parked
during peak class hours, illegal park—
ing would decrease.

People who live in town, or in the
fraternity houses are not supposed
to park in the Parking Garage. While
I understand that bad weather or
oversleeping can make a morning
walk to the hill less than a desirable
prospect, keep in mind that by driv-
ing to class you are taking spots
from people who need them since
they cannot walk to class.

By allowing students who live in
town and people unaffiliated with the
University who use the gym to park
in the Parking Garage, Security is
contributing to the problem. Simple
enforcement would cause an imme-
diate decline in illegal parking, since
no one wants to pay a ticket or, even
worse, towing fee. Also, those who

illegally park in Handicapped spots.

should be ticketed/towed as well.
People who need Handicapped spots
can’t have them. '

“One of the basic laws of algebra states that
What you do to one side of an equation you
must do to the other in order to maintain
equilibrium. This being said, you‘can’t take
away parking spots Without providing new.
ones. With the closure of the Gaines overﬂow
lot came an inﬂux of new people into the
Parking Garage. Now the closure of the
Lenfest lots and the train station have taken
away the convenient spots forthose students
who are unable to park in the Garage. There
are still just as many students with cars who

One of the basic laws of algebra
states that what you do to one side of

an equation you must do to the other‘
in order to maintain equilibrium. This » _
being said, you can’t take away park— 

ing spots without providing new ones.
With the closure of the Gaines over-

flow lot came an influx of new people ii‘:

into the Parking Garage. Now the clo-
sure of the Lenfest lots and the train
‘station have taken away the conve-
nient spots for those students who are
unable to park in the Garage. There are

still just as many students with cars :5’

who need places to park, but there are
not as many spots available.

Another concern in the Parking Ga-
rage is safety. How many of us have

narrowly avoided head-on collisions '
with other students as we both come~:~

speeding along

one has been
‘seriously
jured yet.
simple installa-

or traffic lights
could prevent
crashes inside
the Garage.

i A r i e
there any solu-

the University

vans that eat up spots on the top floor._-_-,
Why do they need to live in the Garage? " ‘ ’

Move them out to the Duchossois/Ru-
ins lot. This way they are still on cam-

pus and accessible to those who need 

them, but are not taking up spots
needed for student parking.

Another solution would be to re-
open the Woods Creek parking lot. The
trailers there are no longer necessary,
as Mock Con is over and Reid Hall is
completely refurbished. Move them
out, and move the Woods Creek resi-

dents in. Not only is this a shorter walk  .

for them, it also opens up a large num-
ber of spots in the Parking Garage.

Similarly, Sorority House staff members _
should use the Freshman Lot, as it isi-In

about the same distance from the
houses and would open up several
spots in the morning.

It is hard to imagine what life on 

campus was like prior to the construc-
tion of the Parking Garage just four years
ago. I appreciate that its construction
has done wonders for the parking situ-
ation on campus. However, these are

dressed and changed for the physical
and academic well-being of students on
campus.

 

in opposite di- i:.:
rections? It’s a ' '
miracle that no,

in-.:.:
The’-'

tion of mirrors ,- -

tions to these_. __
problems? Of ’ "

serious problems that need to be ad- j-;—

 PAGE 8 E

 

Don’t be an a—hole. As many of the girls
that live with me in the sorority house well

‘- know, this has become one of my favorite

mottos by which one should live. Think
about it. It is the perfect combination of
the two‘ golden rules: ‘Treat others as you
would wish to be treated,’ and -‘Don’t treat
others as you would not wish to be treated,’
or, in short, just don’t be an a—hole.
Having said this much, there is a par-
ticular kind of a-holery that
has come to my attention,
which I would like to address.
Here’s the situation: boy B
meets girl G at fraternity X.
Boy B and girl G are obviously expressing

'- an interest in each other that may lead to
further activities later on in the evening.

However, the process is interrupted by boy
B’s rude, inappropriate, drunken fraternity
brothers who have made the decision to
loudly tease and. heckle the couple, graphi-
cally describing the instinctual process of
fornication in the most" demeaning and dis-

respectful way possible. I fail to understand,

why anyone would think this is a good idea.
The only explanation I could come up with,
was that people just don’t think before they
speak or act. Therefore, it is my duty to

‘ _ enlighten all the frat boys that have ever

engaged or thought to engage in such dis-

 
 
 

 

. e orig

THE NAKED TRUIH
_CouRiNEY PERRY ‘04

THERr\ic~TuiviPHi

THE AST ORD

 Social criticisms and confessions from a nude model

All The naked truth part II: lessons on learning how to maintain a basic conversation and why it can greatly enhance your luck with Washington and Lee women

tasteful behavior, as to what sorts of con-
sequences may be expected. Then you may
judge for yourself as to whether or not this
action is a good idea.

Plainly put, such offensive remarks are
going to either infuriate or embarrass girl
G. This will, in turn, reflect unpleasantly
on boy B and severely decrease the likeli-
hood of his furthering their relationship,
intimately or otherwise. Boy B is then go-
ing to get pissed at said fra-
ternity brothers for not only
destroying his chances of
satisfaction (from stimulat-
ing conversation, of
course), but surely for embarrassing him
by association. After all, who would wish
to be part of an organization that out-
wardly displays such exhibitions of crass-
ness? And, if girl G is mortified enough,
she may not return to fraternity X, taking
her friends with her. And everyone knows
there’s nothing less cool than a frat party
with no girls.

Sadly, this is just one of infinitely many
examples of fraternity a-holery. I feel as
though I am constantly surrounded with
men complaining about women and how
awful and complicated they are. Here’s a
hint: women are not stuck-up, prudish and
cold. They are stuck-up, prudish and cold

 

   

MEGANMORGAN
ARis &Lii=EEoiroR

EMAi;M()RoANiii@wiuEu_J

to you. And you wonder why with such
aforementioned behavior? But, fear not——
your situation can be exponentially im-
proved. Rather than sitting at home, pon-
dering women and why they won’t go out
with you, or getting angry about it and send-
ing childish Quick Hits to the Phi about how
awful girls are and im— -
plicitly expressing
your blatant sexual
frustration and loneli-
ness to the entire cam-
pus, here is my sug-
gestion: why don’t
you try being pleas-
ant?

Start by talking to
your love interest——
the key is to do so with no ulterior motives,
but rather because you enjoy her conver-
sation. There are some hysterical women
on this campus whose quick wit and sharp
intellect offer greater and longer lasting
enjoyment than any one night stand. Be-
sides, if you don’t expect anything, you
may be pleasantly surprised. And if you
would like for her to be equally surprised
by you, then perhaps you might work on
improving your persona. Throw some hu-
mor in the conversation. Find some com-
mon interests. And for heaven’s sake at

 

...wretched people are not worth
the time of decent people, and
decent people will eventually find
other decent people with whom
they may couple, even if it takes
some time."

MONDAY, MARCH 22, 2004

least feign some modesty! If you are un-
controllably compelled to boast of your
own achievements to a female audience,
save it for your mother. On the contrary,
flatter your potential partner by express-
ing a curiosity in her achievements, inter-
ests or background. Be courteous and

“ polite and she will react
ppsitively. Be interesting
and engaging and she will
react attentively with an in-
cited interest.

Of course, the necessary
disclaimer here must ac-
knowledge that, yes, in fact,
there are some wretched
people out there of both the
male and female sexes who
will not react positively no matter how kind
or friendly one tries to be. And, yes, there
are plenty of “nice guys” who have done
their best to maximize their appeal and have
yet to find female affection. All I can say to
this is that wretched people are not worth
the time of decent people, and decent people
will eventually find other decent people with
whom they may couple, even if it takes some
time. No one is perfect, but some are closer
than others. Ideals of perfection can be sub-
jective, but there is one form to which we
can all strive: don’t be an a—hole.

What the Hell’s a Ring—tum Phi?

   

 

 

 
 

 

 
 

 

 

 Fie Edit new Actions Tools window Help V. p , I
4:: $v‘3"«:.'t~;  i R ma . .
shin‘  3: 4 «ea J ‘E’; *3 § Sm d Ewe? =‘= "ms 3 5 H W V ' (Reprinted from Sept. 20, 1979 the Ring-tum
e ing— um I gm 3;; ¢  . . .
<93/yiE—'l‘£"-"<l= 5  i    Re: Does exercise hfluence GPA? S04 3121104 051059” g _>  '2 Phl’ repnnted from the Dec‘ 5’  Issue)
 Calendat Heather Hart Re: Does exercise influence EPA? 3408 3/18/04 09:08PM
33 Sent items [I _ ha : .
:3 Documents :°::1°' _"‘°‘:""° ':‘”_  :31 3;]: ‘; ‘;:_:::': Back in the days when telephones (all
ask List a erine ang e. _ _ .  f th . Le . d . t
ark In progre 5 Samuel Nickles Re: Does exercise inﬂuence GPA? 3209 3/ 18/04 09:07PM 0 cm In xmgton! an a Venlsemen
 cabinet Carl Howard Re: Does exercise inﬂuence GPA?  3/ 18/04 09:06PM boasted) WCIC kn0WI1 as “up-to—date elec-
9, - - -, : - 7 . .
3 Trash Kristin ounglnluod Re Does exercise inﬂuence GPA. 3/18/04 09:06PM trlc can bells,” back when Steahng a bell_
Gabrielle Harris Re: Does exercise Inﬂuence GPA? 3925 3/ 18/04 09:06PM “ ’
J Stephen z,,d,,,,, 3205 WM 991,5,” 5 clapper was called a naughty-one s
 .  — ’ " ' v ' frolic,” in the same year that the New York
I l of 3  Re: Does exercise influence GPA? P05! COIlfCI'I'Cd on this  (really) thC 

  

 

  
   
  
   
  
   
   
  
  

From: Andrew Latirner

To: The Ring-tum Phi

Date: 3,l21/D4 05:05PM

Subject: Re: Does exercise inﬂuence GPA?

Subject: Does exercise inﬂuence GPA ?

I'm naked

the beloved & now-infamous christina websters 22nd
birthday is in four days on'march 21st, be sure to

_ Can we please stop?

Cocaine is a hell of a drug

It all began innocently enough with a simple survey e-mail from a sociology project group:

The purpose of this survey is to determine if exercise and healthy eating have a positive correlation with GPA. They
survey is being conducted with SurveyPro. Just click on the link provided in the email to take the survey. All answers
given will be anonymous. This way data will be kept confidential. Do not answer any questions that make you feel
uncomfortable. You can end your participation at any time.
Thank you for participating in this survey!

J onn Rizzo, Louisa Feve, Amanda Strickler, Virginia Baird and Cristina Garcia

Roughly 208 responses later, the entire student body was reeling from overﬂowing inboxes as sender after sender took
his or her respective tum hitting the “reply all” button and spewing their thoughts to 1,900 peers. Several users’ accounts were
suspended for violating University Computing’s mass mailing policy, but their delayed response meant that quite a few choice
opinions rriade their way to all of our screens. The Phi presents a few verbatim selections below, with the names removed

 

“Athens of the South," 1897-— there came
into being a little newspaper published
weekly, “by the students for the Wash-
ington and Lee community,” and named
after the most popular of that University’s
football cheers: “Ring-tum Phi.”
“Coincident with the administration of
President Wilson begins the career of a new
publication at Washington and Lee, the
Ring-tum Phi. The Ring-tum Phi is a weekly
journal and presents a pleasing appearance.
It meets a distinct need in the University
and relieves the Collegian of what formerly
has tended only to clog and retard.”
Eighteen and ninety—seven. The year
of the Great Hell Scandal. It seems the very
first editor-in-chief, George Houston, in the
fourth issue of the neophyte newspaper,
published a column of “Football Songs,”
one of which concluded with this verse:

“Let’s give a rousing, rumbling, roar-
ing football yell.

“Ring-tum Phi, stickeri bum,

“&c, &c.”

Well, hell broke loose. The next issue,
an incensed letter-to—the-editor writer (we
told you things haven’t changed much) said:

“There appeared in the columns of the
Ring-t11m Phi, last week, a song which, to
the thoughtful person had very little to rec-
ommend it. . . . The only thing that I can see
that would have recommended it to the edi-
torial eye is the little smack of naughtiness
which makes the first rhyme in the last verse.

“The Editor seems to be filled with
pride to even know that author; he puts
the verse in the first column of his news-
paper and writes an editorial commending
it as ‘especially good.’ He says the words
tire the voice very little.

“Now everyone, who knows anything
of the subject, knows that the sound of that
‘h’ has a very rasping effect on the vocal
chords. How much better would have been
hadtheline read: ‘And yell right well, boys.’ It
would have sounded better, been easier on
the voice, and would have saved the writer
and Editor from showing off their weakness.

“It can be admitted that, to some eyes,
there is something worthy of admiration

 
  
   
  
   
 

written in the trident

eath other in the dugout

wish her a happy birthday and thank her for starting
something a hell of a lot funnier than everything

oh and also... instead of saving buffalo whatever
lets get a pool going to pay ﬁnk & mulhern ﬁnally
fulﬁll my fantasy: the two of them gettin it ON with

INFOGRAPHIC BY ANDREW LATIMER/ TheRing-tum Phi

kiss me I'm Irish

tina meet me third ﬂoor pi phi tonight

was that a booty call written at 6:56???? I think
it was...i feel a walk of shame coming at about 9
AM tomorrow in the quad...be there (bring your

green hat)

I wonder if everyone can read this?

“Each other’s back, boys,
“Has got a knack, boys,
“For making the gains, sir,
“Round the end,

“And it’s a sin, sir,

ful hard.
_  “Then join the yell, boys,

 

.éi4aI:eiZsize;1:in% A lSeiec!:ed:l

'‘  v._—!,.:é%‘:12t'»ga_i>hn.:." ~,*r»ie~ei:».;rc.«i..

Efotal: 2898

 

“And yell like hell, boys,
“Sure enough, ,

“To W&L U., boys,

“And foot—ball, too, boys,

 

“For Oberlin [a W&L player], sir,
“'To buck the VMI boys’ line so aw-

in a dark, purple crime, but to bow before a
sinlet like this is weakness personiﬁed.

“In the future let me suggest that the
Editor follow the path of virtue. He will not
only ﬁnd it pleasant, but may keep himself
from showing his lack of taste. —— R."

Well,  intimidated Mr. Houston.
Who wouldn't be intimidated if he were
editing a brand—new paper that nobody,
not even students, had ever heard of,
named the Ring-tum Phi; and somebody
came along and accused him of printing
sinlets right on his front page?

“is

Q It’s only a matter of time the Cadavers give in

 

to the pressure of springtime in the South and paint g

the entire campus pink and green.

(1) I’m plarming an Ignorance—is-Bliss Campaign.
My ultimate goal is to create a monologue.

Q Would the person who keeps the box of Nilla
Wafers in the English Lounge like to share?

Q I don’t care what anyone says, keep wearing
those muscle shirts, boys. I love seeing you in them,
especially you, Matt Watson.

Q I love Natalia Maxwell. She is the best girl-
friend ever.

Q Hats off to all the pledges of Pi Kappa Phi and
Mother Alpha who actually stuck out all eight
weeks without complaining like a little girl.

Q If the Phi is going to be including articles from
porn stars, can’t it at least get Jenna Jameson?

Q To the couple talking every weeknight in the
Gilliam stariwell at 4:00 a.m., please find a new place
to chat, or learn sign language. —the kid in boxers
with a hairy chest '

Q When will the Trident stop running that stu-
pid “frat of the Week” column, which has yet to
name a single frat.

Q Reason #3 Gilliam is better than Graham-Lees:
Steve Martinenza is rumored to live here, although
it hasn’t been confirmed.

Q More reasons Gilliam is better than Graham-
Lees: #4— Steve Martinenza is rumored to be a dorm
counselor in Gilliam. #5— Navigation through hall-
ways doesn’t require a map and compass.

Q Still more reasons Gilliam is better than Gra-
harn-Lees: #6— When we drink too much, the Health
Center is right below us. #7- We have Andrew
Gulotta.

Q Is the Juice worth the squeeze?

Q Boo hoo . . . I can’t get laid so I’m complaining
about the girls.

Q Who will the Sigmas initiate if all the Big 4
disappear? '

Q Just to clarify, Lalli and the rest of the skull
pledges suck. Quit writing yourselves into Quick
Hits every week. Losers. Go cry to Mama.

Q My friend asked me if I wanted a frozen ba-
nana, and I was like, “No, but I want a regular ba-
nana later so, yeah.”

Q www.goshentheband.com —Enough said.

Q The Karl Denson concert this year was more
enjoyable for me than anything I have ever read in
the Phi. '

Q Will Scott Pittman please stop submitting self-
ﬂattering Quick Hits?

Q If you cannot take a little hazing, why would
you join a fraternity? And who turns his frat in? I
mean, honestly, all you have to do is quit. Don’t
screw the rest of the frat that is man enough to
take it.

Q The Co—op should open at noon on Sunday.

Q Kudos to all the sports teams that were so suc-
cessful Saturday afternoon. Mary Washington
stinks!

Q Today in Virginia history: In 1622, 347 English
settlers were killed by Algonquian Indians near
Jamestown in what has since been labeled the
Jamestown Massacre.

Q Don’t forget, this Friday, the 26th, to come to
Lambda Chi to celebrate Jeb Brooks’ 2 1 st birthday
with Monticello Road.

Q Similarly: Happy Birthday to W&L alumnus
Pat Robertson who turns 74 today.

Q Quick Hits is dead, long live the Quick Hits.

Q If you didn’t go to see Jonah Goldberg, you
really missed out. He was spectacular.

Q Congratulations to Laura Byme for her ap-
pointment to student head of the Catholic Campus
Ministry.

Q Stay away from our parties. Townies, go home!
Oh wait, never mind.

Q Keep your danm e—mails to yourself. Learn the
*&% @ *l difference between “Reply to Sender”
and “Reply to All” already.

Q Get well soon, Paris. All of us at the Phi are
pulling for you. Send that horse off to the glue
factory. '

<1> This in not the only Quick Hit written by Jeb
and Brett this week.

d) E-mail your anonymous Quick Hits and com-
plaints about exams and term papers to
phi@wlu.edu.

 

,0

 

 

  

 Students ready for  
t inaugural Habitat Blitz Build

BY KATHERINE SHELL
SENIOR STAFF WRITER

Habitat for Humanity
will hold a Blitz Build for the
ﬁrst time, in Lexington from

’ April 3 to April 6, 2004 . The
build will be at 123 Preston
Street. Washington and Lee’s
chapter, the Rockbridge Area
Habitat, VMI, Youth United,

1;’ and Southern Virginia Univer-

sity have raised money for the
build, and over a hundred vol-
unteers are expected each day.

“We are expecting 120

"’ to 150 volunteers at the site

each day,” said Rockbridge

.. 92.
:.« ‘ | I
° ii fl
. . '

Dakota. Applicants are chosen
after an interview process which
includes a review of current liv-
ing conditions, ability to pay
mortgage, and agreement to put
in at least three hundred hours
on the build. Since 1989, Habi-
tat for Humanity has built 21
houses for citizens of
Rockbridge County. The April 3
build will be the first blitz build
for the chapter.

Most Habitat homes are
built within three to four
months. Bryant’s house will
be constructed in four days
with volunteers from all parts
of the Rockbridge community.

Area Habitat The house
Director - willhaveits
Dan Walz. Rockblldgé Area _ grand open-
“Come and Volunteering in Profile in g on
help us roam: orHumuni Tuesdaw
build or f ly I April 6,
watch the 2004, but all

construction activities.” Vol-
unteers will include W&L
students and staff; all are
welcome to participate.

“I’m looking forward to
taking a break from studying
for finals and using my en-
ergy towards working on the
house,” says Beth Lidinsky,
’O7, who worked with Habi-
tat during Pre-Orientation to
build a house. “It is always
impressive how quickly the
house can progress with our

help and I leave with the »

amazing feeling that we have
helped create a new home for
a family.”

The house will be built
for Rogenia Bryant, a Mohawk
Carpet employee, and her son,

are welcome to come see the
house at any point during its
build.

For additional informa-
tion, contact Dan Walz, Ex-
ecutive Director, at 463-3770
or habitat@rockbridge.net,
or Katie Henderson, Habitat
for Humanity publicity chair
of Washington and Lee
Chapter, at (540) 463-3901 or
hendersonk@wlu.edu.

Habitat for Humanity is
a fairly young charitable orga-

nization that works to provide.

housing for the needy. Volun-
teers work together to con-
struct homes fromﬁmaterials
that are either donated directly
or purchased with donated
funds.

E-mail news briefs to phi@wlu.edu

G-TUM

lire student voice of Washington and Lee Unioersizysince 1897

R WASHINGTON AND LElE UNIVERSITY
E .

PHI

I" W W W W W W "T '"'”‘ "1
i April Fools i
I SECTION INSIDE I
‘" "' ”“ '“ "” “7ro"” '72:»?

MONDAY, MARCH29, 2004

Renowned writers visit campus
Wolfe recalls college, career in occlusive

BY PATRICIA BALLANTYNE
SENIOR STAFF WRIIER

Tom Wolfe visited Washington and Lee
last weekend for his lecture series. And he also
came to see old friends.

Wolfe stayed with one of his friends from
his Phi Kappa Sigma pledge class that graduated
in 1951. Another friend came to visit. The three
men in their sevendes laughed, joked, and teased
one another like they had more than forty years
ago. In the midst of an excited yet casual conver-
sation about fraternities parties and changes to
W&L, his two friends chatted with “Tom” about
some of his famous highlights.

“What was your favorite book,” asked one.

“Probably Radical Chic” answered Wolfe,
who added that of all of his books it most closely
followed his original plan for the subject.

Wolfe, the author of renowned books such
as A Man in Full and The Bonﬁre of the Vanities,
might be the most famous alumni to graduate from
Washington and Lee. But in his early days at
W&L as a St. Chiistopher’s kid, Wolfe resembled
a typical, socially concerned freshmen.

“-You felt if you didn’t get into a fraternity
in your first week of school, your life was
over,” said Wolfe.

Wolfe got into Princeton and W&L, but
he chose W&L because it was closer and less
complicated. “In those days college was sim-
pler,” said Wolfe. “If you had the tuition you
could go to any University you wanted.”

Wolfe played baseball for three years, be-
fore playing two years for a senii-professional
team. Wolfe had a greater desire to play baseball

than to write at that time. “If I had been offered a ‘

contract class D, I would have taken it,” said
Wolfe. “It’s the American male dream.”

Wolfe was one of three student edi-
tors on the first Shenandoah staff, which was
“a brainchild of the young faculty,” accord-
ing to Wolfe, who liked the literary magazine
because “I got my stories published.”

Although Shenandoah represented an*op“‘ "

portunity to write and create a magazine, Wolfe
and the other students had different visions of

UVA troupe teaches men  
compassion for rape victims

PHOTO BY CORBIN g

GOOD OLD DAYS. Wolfe donned his ever-
recognizable white suit for his alma mater.

the end product than the professors. Wolfe
wanted the ﬁrst issue to picture an overdosed
Heroin addict, but the teachers rejected the idea
Wolfe thinks students at W&L should
take advantage of the liberal arts courses sur-
rounding them. “I think you do better taking
more history, literature, and social sciences.”
While he is a legendary jouirialist, Wolfe
doesn’t understand going to Journalism school,
except for the aid it might provide with job hunts.
“Everyone interested in writing at W&L
should take a couple steps back and analyze the
socialsituatioriespeciallysocialcliquesaiidtheword
coo  said Wolfe. “It’s a fascinating word, cool.”
Wolfe’s new novel addresses the social
scenes at colleges across America. To write
his new book, I am Charlotte Simmons, he
visited schools such as Chapel Hill, Michi-
g'ari, University of Florida, and Stanford.
“I stayed away from W&L because I want
safe harbors,” said Wolfe.

Bergman opens Ethics Institute
with keynote on ‘End of News’

Lowell Bergman, the television jour-
nalist whose relationship with “60 Min-
utes” inspired the film
“The Insider,” delivered
the keynote Washington
and Lee University’s
37th Institute on the Eth-
ics of Journalism this Fri-
day in Lee Chapel.

Bergman is consid-
ered one of the best jour-
nalists in the country and
founded the Center for
Investigative Reporting and is a New York
Times contributor. His keynote speech, “The
End of News” detailed the commercialization
of news in a market-driven economy.
Bergman is currently a teaching fellow at UC-
Berkeley’s Graduate School of Journalism.

Wolfe actually examined students’ lives
by attending fraternity parties and other so-
cial events. In a small effort to blend in more,
he opted not to wear his trademark white suit
at these parties, choosing a more traditional
navy blazer instead.

Wolfe actually started wearing his fa-
mous white suit everyday because of an ac-
cidental purchase. When he reached New
York as a young reporter, he needed suits
for the dress code. In June he decided to
buy a white suit, which is not original for
his home town of Richmond, Va. But “the
silk tweed was too hot to wear in the sum-
mer,” according to Wolfe. So he started wear-
ing it in colder weather.

White made a lot of people angry,” said
Wolfe. “Suddenly it was ﬁin to get dressed in
the moming.” That was over forty years ago.

Sitting in Lee Chapel, Wolfe could have
talked for hours about his intimate bond with
Washington and Lee. “W&L is so different than
other places,” said Wolfe. “Here you get to know
so many people; it’s a fimction of the size.”

 

THE Exrcuni/E Connmrr
Helen Hughes ‘04

Prezdoit

Anne johtmsen ‘O5

VoePr5zdent

Cullen Carter ‘04

VOLUME GVll,~Ne-31‘

 

 

Nominate 2004’s Convocation speaker

The Student Affairs Committee seeks your input regarding the
University’s Convocation speaker for Fall 2004. Please take a few
moments to nominate someone whom you believe can speak to the
values of the University community or can address a major current
issue relevant to the Washington and Lee University community for
the coming academic year. We are particularly interested in someone
related to the University community (for example, an alum, someone
from the faculty, staff or a student, a parent of a student, a friend to
the University, etc.). We also welcome your suggestions for issues of
interest if you have no speaker to nominate. Please send your nomi-
nations by April 30 to Dawn Watkins, Dean of Students, 242 Univer-

sity Commons or dwatkins@wlu.edu.

Biology professor wins grant

Biology Professor E. William Hamilton IH of Washington and Lee
University has been awarded a National Science Foundation grant to
study how rising carbon dioxide (CO2) levels in the atmosphere are
endangering plant life and whether this growing global problem ulti-
rnately could impact the productivity of agricultural crops. The $131,000
NSF grant will allow Hamilton, the project’s principal investigator, to
conduct ﬁeld and laboratory research with his W&L biology students
into how different types of plants are affected by climatic extremes.

STAFF WRITER

Thursday evening, a traveling
organization from UVA put on a pro-
gram for the men of Washington and
Lee. The program was entitled “How
to help a sexual assault survivor:
What men can do.” Their aim was to
educate males what they can do to
help women who have been raped.

The organization, named after the
number of college aged women who
have been sexually assaulted since age
14, is an offshoot of the National Orga-
nization of Men’s Outreach for Rape

Education, or NO MORE.

1 in 4 was started at the Univer-
sity of Maryland, and chapters have
been starting up rather quickly at
other college campuses. Support at
this past week seemed good and the
prospect of a chapter starting here

seems likely.

BY JORDAN ANDERSON

There were about 8 members of the
group here, all of different backgrounds,
from fraternity president to varsity soccer

player. Some had experience helping
women with rape; others just wanted to
make a difference. At UVA, 1 in 4 has about
30 members total that tour colleges and
educate people about sexual abuse. .

The program did an excellent job
illustrating for the audience what the
emotional and physical stress of rape is
like, a subject that many men cannot
fathom.

In addition to presenting informa-
tive statistics, the group emphasized di-
rect ways that one can assist a rape vic-
tim move on and receive help.

Members of the audience de-
scribed the event as “absolutely won-
derful, and an excellent representation
of the school.”

Blair Crunk, ‘07, said that it was
“Enlightening to see the difference we
can make if we pay just a little more at-
tention to victimized women.”

For information about rape or 1 in
4 visit I the website http://
www.nomorerape.org.

Production director Christopher
Lauderman contributed to this article.

Panel initiates discussion regarding diversity, quotas

BY CATHERINE SWAN
SERNIOR STAFF WRITER

Washington and Lee University’s NAACP
Chapter held an open forum in Northen Audi-
torium last Tuesday night. “Affirmative Action
at Washington and Lee: Did you fill a quota?”
was designed to start a dialogue about race and
admissions.

Dean Jeanine Stewart and Dean Tammy
Futrell were present at the forum, as well as ad-
missions representative Erin Hutchinson. Ap-
proximately 10 ' students were in attendance,
many of whom were members of NAACP. Late
publicity as well as other conﬂicting campus
events contributed to the low turnout.

Hutchinson explained the admissions pro-
cess as it relates to minorities. There are no quo-

tas for minorities, only goals set by the trust-
ees. These goals are based on a study of diver-
sity profiles at small, private institutions such
as W&L. The trustees seek to introduce more
diversity to campus without sacrificing aca-
demic standards or exceeding the financial aid
budget.

Hutchinson explained that while reading
applications, admissions always has applicants
with extraordinary qualities who will automati-
cally be accepted regardless of race. There are
also applications that are rejected during a first
read through.

It is when considering the leftover appli-
cations that race and other issues of diversity
become a factor. In these cases, when two stu-
dents with equal qualifications seek admission,
admissions officers take into account diversity
and the goals of the trustees.

Hutchinson also explained that even when
the admissions office accepts diverse students,
not all of them enroll. She said that admissions
is very aggressive in recruiting minority stu-
dents, because they are less likely to have heard
of W&L. M

The W&L NAACP chapter decided to host
the forum because they were concerned that mem-
bers of the student body had the wrong impres-
sion about minority students on campus.

They sought to dispel rumors that minority
students gained acceptance to the university on
lower standards, and that many minority students
were here on financial aid, or came to the univer-
sity because ﬁnancial aid was offered to them.

The forum opened up dialogue on why
these false perceptions exist, and what could be
done to inform students that the rumors were
not true.

Setretmy
March 1, 2004

A member of the Student Body has de-
cided to withdraw after being found guilty of
committing an Honor Violation in an Execu-
tive Committee Hearing. The student submit-
ted work that was not his/her own on a paper.
The student’s paper contained multiple pas-
sages that matched or closely paraphrased
passages from the assigned book and mul-
tiple intemet sites. The student did not cite or
otherwise attribute a majority of this work to
anyone other than himself/herself.

In defense, the student stated that he/
she was in a rush and did a sloppy job with
citations. The student also stated that it was a
poorly written paper and that he/she did not
intentionally take credit for another person’s
work He/she claimed that he/she did not have
the book or intemet sites in front of him/her while
writing the paper, and being in a rush, wrote the
paper only using notes that he/she had made
while reading the book and intemet sites. The
student also stated that while writing the paper,
he/she thought that certain passages within the
notes were liis/her own work, and did not re-
quire citation. During the Hearing, the student
produced hand written notes and type written
notes containing many of the passages that
matched or resembled the book and intemet sites.

The Executive Committee found, how-
ever, by conclusive and credible evidence and
testimony that the student had submitted work
that was not his/her own for a paper. The Com-
rriittee determined that throughout the hand
written and type written notes the student had
acknowledged tlieauthor of the passages. In
addition, some passages from the paper were
verbatim of intemet sites and/or the book, and
not of the notes, which were claimed to be the
only resource available to the student while
he/she was writing the paper. Thus, the Com-
mittee found that the paper submitted was in
violation of the Honor System.

In response to student requests, the
Executive Committee has decided to renew its
practice of posting student body notices in
student newspapers.

 

 

PAGE 2

Siiiiiii )1TORIAL
Of April Fools...

Satirical humor is a hallmark of The
Ring-tum Phi’s annual April Fool’s edi-
tion. As always, articles written in this hu-
morous spirit appear on pages three and
four. We publish these stories as a light-
hearted attempt to poke fun at some of
our peers and administrators and highlight
some of the quirks of living on W&L’s
campus. Writing these stories has been a
group effort meant to amuse our readers;
it is not meant to single out those we tease.

...and a dwindling list of places
for studying during ﬁnals week

It’s nearly ﬁnals week, and where
will you be studying? For more and more
beleaguered Washington and Lee book-
worms, the sad answer is that it’s not in
a university classroom. T

The pain of this classroom crunch is
felt by students who ﬁnd locked doors at
nearly every turn, from the Science Center
or the Williams School and all points in be-
tween. Study groups who assume a right to
convene after class are turned out by secu-
rity guards on an increasingly regular basis.

Two things are going on here: the
school’s push for more multimedia class-
rooms has made more areas off-lirnits
after business hours, and departments in
charge of those rooms have done a poor
job of alerting students to their options.
When you ﬁnd out that you could have
checked with a secretary and reserved
a room, it’s usually too late.

Thepotential of disappearing thousand-
dollar multimedia equipment (see last
week’s laptop theft article) and the trashing
of rooms are legitimate concerns, but so
should be providing adaquate study space.

But students usually take their
grurnblings to the guard with the lock and
key, not to the department leaders who
set room-locking policy. '

So, the next time you can’t ﬁnd a
suitable location for your last-rninute
cramming, don’t complain to the secu-
rity guard. Remember to tell your depart-
ment that if you are willing to claim re-
sponsibility, you want your rooms back.

TrirRiNc~TnMl’ir

(‘Au-:rANuuuoN

QNONSFDIIOR
andersonc@wluedu

PINIONS  

MONDAY, MARCH 29, 2004

Pledge of Allegiance complaint has little merit

The infamous “Pledge of Allegiance” case
has ﬁnally gone to the Supreme Court. The com-

g plainant in the case, one Michael Newdow, says

that use of the phrase “under God” in the Pledge
constitutes an unconstitutional establishment of
religion by preferring theistic religions, or reli-
gions that believe in a deity, over non-theistic
religions or belief systems that do not include
religious status. The 9th Circuit Court, the fed-
eral judicial body that last ruled on the case,
agreed with him, saying that the Pledge would
have to be taken out of public schools. On ap-
peal, the case is now in the Supreme Court.

Technically, we should admit, there is a le-
gal case here. The 1st Amendment does ban
Congress from making an ille-

But honestly, who does he think he’s lciddin g?
Almost no one who recites this pledge honestly
believes that the “under God” section of it is a
religious supplication. The Pledge, these days,
is taken for what it is- a simple civic afﬁrmation.
It is part of a (perhaps unfortunate) tradition in
American government of deistic civicism. The
phrase “In God We Trust” is on our currency,
the motto “God Bless America” adorns the
nation’s bumper stickers, and the Supreme Court
itself opens with the phrase “God save the United
States and this honorable Court.”

The “God” mentioned in such a public
context is not a speciﬁc being, and can even be
construed as being some sort of unifying spirit

rather than a deity. Even among

gal establishment of religion, MODERATE’S MUSINGS our founders, such differences of
and having students recite the ‘ opinion existed, and yet were set
pledge in public schools does CALEY ANDERSON 06 aside. Jefferson himself, who

mean that the government is

indirectly sponsoring it. The fact that there
might be a number of students in public schools
to whom the “under God” phrase would not
apply makes it understandable that this case
has come so far. Some would even go so far as
to say that the “God” mentioned in the Pledge
is implicitly the Christian God, a reﬂection of
the religious beliefs of the majority of Ameri-
cans.

In fact, the Pledge of Allegiance, which
was written near the end of the 19th Century,
did not originally include the line “under God,”
which was added in 1954 after an intense cam-
paign on the part of the Knights of Columbus,
a religious group associated with the Catholic
Church.

So if we go by the letter of what’s being said
here, there is, in fact, a violation of the 15‘ Amendment,
because students in public schools are reciting what
is effectively a “religious prayer,” according to
Newdow.

WAS a Deist, acknowledged that
the “God” referred to by his peers was not neces-
sarily their God from his point of view, and he had
no Constitutional qualms.

Also damning to’Newdow’s argument are
the dual truths that a: no one ever forces anyone
to say the pledge, and b: the Pledge doesn’t really
have a set format. In public schools, students are
free not to say the pledge. They can even sit
down and refuse to salute or pay respect to the
ﬂag. That certainly falls under the 1st Amend-
ment. Thus, no establishment is being forced
when you combine this fact with the idea that the
“God” being saluted is not a speciﬁc deity.

Secondly, the Pledge is not understood by
all as “I pledge allegiance to the ﬂag of the United
States of America, and to the Republic for which it
stands, one nation, under God, indivisible, with
liberty and justice for all.”

Some more left-leaning individuals either
recite the same pledge without “under God,” or
recite a version that goes “‘I pledge allegiance to

Reach out and talk to someone

 

“This is my iceberg; it belongs to me.”

— Marco Evaristti, a Danish artist who used three
ﬁre hoses, 20 helpers, and 780 gallons of red dye.
to paint a Greenland-area iceberg completely red.

 

‘&'A<.i-m-cczoze Aw; its l,=':~n»'.:r.:m] )

Erin Julius

Chris Lauderman
Caley Anderson
Anne Finley
Megan Morgan
Cody Gabbard
John Hyland
Chad Kiewiet de Jonge
Emily Edwards
Kelly Jo Larsen
Vanessa Arness

Managing Editor
Production Director
Opinions Editor

Asst. Opinions Editor
Arts & Life Editor
Photography Editor
Asst. Sports Editors

Production Assistants
Copy Editors

Paul Seifert
David Seifert
Rob Rain ,
Leggett Kitchin
Stephen Lipscomb
Andrew Latimer

Business Managers

Circulation Director
Asst. Circulation Dir
Distribution Dir
Editor in chief

The Ring-tum Phi is published Mondays during the
undergraduate school year at Washington and Lee Univer-
sity, Lexington, Virginia. The Ring-tum Phi is a member of
The Media Board, but is otherwise independent.

The Ring-tum Phi welcomes all responsible sub-
missions and letters. All submissions must be e—mailed
to phi@wlu.edu or in the University Center mailbox by
5 p.m. Friday to appear in the following week’s edition.
The Ring-tum Phi reserves the right to edit submissions
for content and length. Letters and columns do not
necessarily reflect the opinion of The Ring-tum Phi
Editorial Board. Advertising does not reﬂect the opin-
ions of The Ring-tum Phi or its staff. This newspaper
observes current court deﬁnitions of libel and obscenity.

The Ring-tum Phi
University Commons Room. 341
Washington and lee University
Lexington, Virginia 24450
Telephone: (540) 458-4060
Fax: (540) 458-4059
Email: phi@wlu.edu
Subscription rate $40

Let’s talk. When was the
last time you sat down and had
a nice leisurely conversation
with a good friend or with any-
one about nothing? Outside of
meals, I rarely have time to just
sit down, sip a cup of coffee, and
talk, especially about nothing in
particular. And I’m not alone.

Too often in our busy lives
as students on this campus and
just as people in this fast paced-
world, we do not have the chance
to converse just for the heck of it.
We talk about schoolwork, we talk
about work-
work, and we
talk about our
various prob-

TRAIN or THOUGHT
TRAN KIM ‘05

Virginia to New York if you had a
very fast horse and a very small
load. Life was very slow-paced, the
exact opposite of our lives today.
But in those days, people knew the
meaning and value of quality time
spent with family and ﬁiends. They

knew the value of a good conver-“V

sation over tea and cookies. The
only time I have the chance to sit
down and just talk about anything
and everything is when I go home
and have nothing to do. It is then
that I will meet up with my best
friend for a cup of coffee at Barnes
and Noble and
riﬂe through fash-
ion magazines
and catch up on

lerns and dilem— everything in our
mas. There’s lives. But whenl
alsoaproblern withtoomuch small- enter the city limits of Lexington,

talk, one that I must admit I engage
in much too often. It can also be
called stop-and-go talk. You stop
for a second, say hello, and then
say goodbye. It usually lasts
about 10 seconds but on good
days might even last as much as
one minute!

Our society has advanced
so much technologically and our
lives have been made easier than
those who lived decades before us,
but are they really better? In those
days, it took a week to travel from

all communications are cutoff.
You have the same excuses
as I do, I’m sure. There’s so much
work to do, so little time to do it,
and so much pressure to get it
done. But are we losing ourselves
in our struggle for achievement?
That “A” is important and could
possibly make or break you.
Though you may get the A and
make it, you may have broken your-
self in the process. Is it better to
makeitbutbebrokenornottomake
it and be in one piece? If you had

   

t

  Home f0rSa

704 N. MAIN ST., EXINGTON, A

Built circa 1880 on Institute Hill, now completely restored with
modern plumbing, wiring, heating, windows and new appliances.
New carpeting in all main rooms plus stenciled wood ﬂoors.

4 Bedrooms, 1 1/2 Baths, Livingroom/Diningroom, all new kitchen plus a
large utility/office Room. Large third floor storage room and an attached

outside storage area. '

Two large front porches and beautiful old stone walls on terraced
landscaping.

Easy walk to VMI, Washington and Lee or downtown shopping.
Private lane access and parking. Taxes $400 yearly.
Asking $229,000.

(540) 464-3738
or

(540)460-4718

.
§

   
 

to make a choice, I hope you would
choose the latter. Our accomplish-
ments are important but it’s impor-
tant to keep in mind that life is
much more than what we do.
What's most important is who we
are with. _At the end of the day,
the PhD merely fills’ up empty
spaces on our walls, but will it fill
up the empty spaces in our
hearts?

I am not implying that we
must choose between a way of life
ﬁlled only by work and a way of
life dominated by only leisure be-
cause doing one or the either is no
solution either. Rather, we must
find a balance and live in the middle
between these two lives. We
should not neglect our academic
or career health, but we should also
be careful to not neglect our men-
tal and spiritual health.

So my advice to everyone
is to take some time aside for
yourself and treat yourself to a
nice conversation with someone
you enjoy talking to. Take some
time to call up a friend you nor-
mally only talk with through in-
stant messaging and have a vo-
cal conversation. Take some
time to write a friend that you
can’t call. Indeed, just take some
time to explore the wonder of a
good conversation.

House for Rent
In The Country

Lease goes from June 15, 2004 to
June 15, 2005

1.5 miles on Rt. 60 East

“Jaws”

Daytime Phone: 540-463-5383
Nighttime Phone: 540-463-5654

rrrorro oourmsv or  1
HARMLESS. Is this sentiment really unconstitutional?

my Flag, and to the Republic for which it stands,

one nation, indivisible, with equality, liberty and ’

justice for all.” Then you have a number of pro-
life advocates that recite “‘I pledge allegiance to
the Flag of the United States of America and to
the Republic for which it stands, one nation under
God, indivisible, with liberty and justice for all,
born and unborn.” No one is preventing differ-
ently-minded students from reciting an alternate
pledge. '

So honestly, I really don’t think there’s a
case here. I think Newdow is wasting the
Court’s valuable time, and inciting needless
public debate on what is essentially a non—is-
sue. There are more important issues than this
to address in today’s America.

Letter to the editor

Single sanction needs to go

Dear Editor,

Having read Tippins Stone’s letter of last
week, I think I speakmfor a good many W&L
studentswhen I say'this: Ms. Stone, you are
naive. Considering the way that the Honor
System is sold to freshmen at our school, your
naiveté is completely understandable. I, too,
sat in Lee Chapel as a freshman and felt a
kind of satisfying self-righteousness upon
hearing slogans like “Honor isn’t measured
in degrees.”

But, like many upperclassmen, I later came
to see that those slogans are absolutely non-
sensical. So give it some time is my advice.

‘Perhaps if you are ever forced to observe qui-

etly while this Honor System ruins the lives
of good people for silly reasons, you’ll want
to change your tune. Because Lord knows it
happens, and the wonder is that we still allow
it to. Sure, honor defined as not lying, not
cheating, and not stealing is certainly some-
thing worth striving for. But the kind of Honor
that we worship at W&L is phony and de-
structive. It fails to admit what seems to me
like a pretty obvious fact of human nature:
everybody lies. And those people who say
that they’ve never lied are lying.

It’s neat that we lie so little at this school,
and that lying about important matters (like
academics) is nonexistent. But let’s stop al-
lowing the EC to kick out our classmates for
telling white lies. Letting them consider the
context of honor violations when determin-
ing a punishment will not demean our tradi-
tion or the name of our Holy Father Robert E.
Lee. A “single sanction” is pointless, and we
should be reasonable enough to admit this.

Sincerely, ‘
Dustin Jacobson ‘O5

4 Bedrooms
2 Baths

 

X

 

E

  

WASHINGTON AND

LING-TUM

LEE UNIVERSITY

I.  _..'?‘?'_’_”j'9 Bi'T"iG
Monday,lvIarch29,2004

Student Activities Organization under investigation

BY Cro THELMAN
HENEEDSTOFINDHISOWNBED

Continuing its “crackdown on hazing”
policy, the Student Activities Organization
(SAO) is currently under investigation for its
“new member education” program. A fresh-
man came forward to Dean Watkins last week
revealing precise and disturbing accusations
of hazing.

While the administration is not talking
about the allegations, rumors of the SAO’s
activities have spread around campus. Local

residents were upset when members of the I

SAO held up East Lex with Nerf guns in an
amazing, but true, story.

Potential new members were seen lined up
behind the Science Center where unidentifiable
frozen food was thrown at them. Upperclass-
men identified the chunks as chicken cordon
bleu from the old dining hall.

Potential new members allegedly were also
forced to play in a Halo tournament running all
night causing sleep deprivation.

“I knew immediately that SAO was haz-
ing,” said Professor Uribe Arafranofsky. “Stu-

Hook-ups banned
in campus bui .dings

    

PHOTO COURTBY OF ~ #57
HE WEARS A GRIN FROM EAR TO FAR. In light of the
new campus debauchery ban, President Burish can
keep on smiling. He’s a married man.

BY RENE LOUAPRE
HEAD or RISK MANAGHVEENT

In a move described as “momentous and ex-
hilarating,” W&L administrators in conjunction
with SAC, the Student Health Center, and L.I.F.E.
announced yesterday that non-married couples will
be prohibited from engaging in any inappropriate
sexual relations. Married law students, President
and Mrs. Burish, and Dean Watkins will be the
only people allowed to “hook-up” in campus build-
ings. Thus ends Lucius Beebe’s dream of joining
the Colonnade Club with Tim Smith.

“Any touching between the neck and the knees
poses a serious health risk for students of W&L. My
job is to find these risks and eliminate them. Just look
what I have accomplished with hard alcohol, beer,
parties, and smoldng,” said Dr. Jane Horton.

The administration also announced that Dr.
J .D. Futch III, in his new role as Dean of Religious
Life, will be responsible for doling out punish-
ments. Dr. Futch was chosen over Burr Datz be-
cause Dr. Burish had heard that Futch taught a
class on the papacy.

Dr. Burish added, “Any man who teaches a class
on the papacy must be knowledgeable in the ways of
proper decorum for unmarried couples. I mean, popes
aren’t even allowed to have intercourse.”

Dr. Futch live via satellite said he was
shocked by his new duties and role he must fulfill.
“I have never considered pre-marital sex to be of
any harm to those involved in it. Why Pope
Alexander VI used to have naked courtesans pick
up chestnuts off the ﬂoor with their. . . .” The
transmission then abruptly ended.

The Administration admitted that at ﬁrst they
didn’t want to approve the measure but was forced
to after repeated complaints from people in the Dorms.

A small group of protestors led by Will
Howorth, Thomas Worthy, and the entire Pi Kappa
Phi fraternity denounced the decision. “What is
next no more making out on the dance ﬂoor? I
mean come on this isn’t a convent, it is COLLEGE,”
said Whit Whitﬁeld before ripping off his shirt,
calling for his dog, and downing a Busch heavy.

“You meantotellrneIcan’tgobacktothedonns
and chase some tail? Why that is ludicrous, I mean what
the hell? Do you want me to hook up outside. Ibet the
school would be real happy if I got caught with a girl
hooking up in the overly used amphitheatre. I have a
political career to wony about,” added Thomas Worthy.

Overall, the move has been praisedby theAdnrin—
istration as a great step in ﬁnally dealing with the pesky,
fraternity problem

dents have been falling asleep in my exciting,
exciting class.”

Witnesses claim to have seen freshmen
from the organization having a water balloon fight
on the second ﬂoor of Leybum Library. “They
deserve to be kicked off campus,” said Reference
Librarian Dick Grefe. “Our government docu-
ments are ruined!” - ,

Independents not attached to the SAO
fear that their reputations will be ruined as well.

“There’s no (expletive) way that we’re get-
ting kicked off this (expletive) campus,” said
SAO President James McKay. Many students
are rejoicing in the recent events surrounding
the demise of SAO.

“First they took over Campus Notices, now
they invade our beloved Commons day and
night,” said Fratty McFratterson.

“Where in the hell am I going to go get
drunk now?” said Sratty Sue Simpleton.

This stunning announcement comes
merely six weeks after the EC officially recog-
nized W&L’s newest organization.

“Our lag time is getting better with every
passing year,” chortled Arafranofsky before break-
ing into an extended bout of hysterial laughter.

CAUGH1‘ ON CAMERA! The newly-formed SAO has lasted less than a year. The

W&L to declare War on VMI

 MARINOSI/‘Nae Blm -tum Pbzi

Greek system is certainly med.

 
   

BY ARHAS RAMRUY
SENIOR MILITARY ANALYST

In a stunning armouncement

_ this morning, Washington and Lee

University declared war on neigh-
bor Virginia Military Institute. In
his news release, President Torn
Burish decried the “unforgivable af-
front against a time-honored rela-
tionship” between the universities.

No statement has been given
as to the exact nature of the insult
against the University. However, a
source in the ofﬁce of the dean of

students, who would comment only.

if promised anonymity, said that an
incident at a fraternity house sparked
the conﬂict. The fraternity in ques-
tion has not been named, but the
source did say that the incident in-
volved three cadets, two fraternity
seniors, and a broken lacrosse stick.

Mike Young, Director of Secu-
rity, is pleased at the news. “I tried to
convince John [Elrod] to take this
step for years,” Young said. “But
[former Dean of Students David]
Howison kept whining about ‘main-
taining alumni relations’ or ‘unnec-
essary casualties’——it was always
something with him. I’m so glad that
our current president is able to see
reason.”

Young will be leading the ef-
fort to recruit and train Washington
& Lee’s army, which will be arranged
into companies based on the results
of the IM basketball tournament.

Professors in several depart-
ments have questioned the
college’s readiness to go into
battle. They point out that the stu-
dent body, which will be doing the
lion’s share of the fighting, has
neither training nor equipment.

Happily, Washington and Lee’s
armed forces have obtained en-
dorsements from North Face and
POLO by Ralph Lauren. All recruits
will be outfitted with three pastel
polo shirts, two pairs of relaxed ﬁt
khakis, and a ﬂeece for inclement
weather.. Promotional shotglasses
and T-shirts will be available for
nonparticipants.

When asked for comment,
Dean of Students Dawn Watkins de-
nied the possibility of a disadvan-
tage against the military academy,
which has a thriving ROTC program.
“Sure, the ROTC cadets are trained
to_ be professional soldiers,”
Watkins admitted. “But will they
have the fabulous fashions of our
W&L waniors, to say nothing of the
latest spring colors? I think not.”

“Besides, here at the Univer-
sity we have a secret military force

over our own, which we’ve main-
tained since the days of Lee against
this sort of emergency. Naturally,
the force has had to drill late at night
to avoid detection,” said Watkins.
“Several students have of course
seen them, and rumors have circu-
lated around campus. You might
know them as the Cadavers.”
Tentative plans to name the
army “The Generals” were
scrapped in the face of logistical
difficulties. “No matter what Baner
says, not everyone can be a gen-
eral in a military unit,” said Young.
Recruitment booths will be
set up all week in the Commons
and in front of Leyburn Library.
The war’s first battle is
scheduled for Saturday on VMI’s
parade ground. In case of rain, the
combat will be moved to
Duchoissois Tennis Center.

BY PR1NcEss GERTRUDE
BALLER EXTRAORDINAIRE

Beirut is coming. No,
not the capital of Lebanon;
the timeless college fraternity
tradition is invading college
athletics. Following an an-
nouncement in Indianapolis
by NCAA Commissioner
Myles “McFrat” Brand,
Beirut will be an ofﬁcial1y—sanc—
tioned NCAA sport effective
the 2004-2005 academic year.

Brand’s announce-
ment sparked much contro-
versy not only around the
athletic world but outside
of it as well. College foot-
ball coach Bobby Bowden
stated that “endorsing
drinking games under-
mines the credibility of
other legitimate college
athletes.” Bowden de-
clined to comment on the
alleged drug problems of

BY KRAZY CALEY
SAN DIEGO IMPORT

Sophomore Janey Everygirl thought she knew
whattoexpectfromherW1nterTerrncourse with Prof.
Eduardo Velasquez. But, like many other students in
this year’s edition of Politics 265, she received a rude
awakening during Velasquez’s introductory lecture
and class outline.

“Plato’s Republic, Aristotle’s Politics,” said
Everygirl, reading through the class syllabus’ reading
list “Whatthecrap?”Iaskedwlu1tshewasexpectirIg
toreadoverthecourse ofthetenn “I don’tknow,I
ﬁguredit’dbethe same old. This is Classical Political
Philosophy, so I guess he would usually assign an

” OscarW1ldeplay,someChadesBaudelairepoetry,liner
notes fromaMetallicaaIbum, andmaybethenutrition
facts from a box of T1c—Tacs or something. The com-
mon theme would be ‘redernption,”’ said Everygirl.
Herreference wasto afamous class sessionlastyear,

his star football players.

Reverend Jerry Falwell warned
that “allowing teenagers under 21 to
willfully break the law should appeal
to our moral consciousness.”

more uimzsv or cup.
BIG TYMERS. The addition of Beirut as an NCAA-sanctioned sport will pit the Generals
against D—1 powerhouses such as the University of California.

which did in fact deal with the subject of redemption and
T1c—Tacs. “He noted that the Tic—Tacs in question were
orange, a color associated with impetuousness and hot
tempers, but that they were without any fat, sodium, pro-
tein, or sugars, indwd, the Tic-Tacs lacked any sort of
carbohydrates whatever. The T1c—Tacs were vessels of
hollow rage, unable to act on their strong feelings because
of their lack of any nutritional value,” said Everygirl.

Reading assignments weren’t the only thing stu-
dents were shockedabout “’Ihewayheranclassthisyear
was allOl"diﬂ°erent,” saidTor Coolguy, a senior. “He’d just
gave alecture and tookafew questions. At no point didhe
play music videos,referenceHan'yPotter,ormakeusrepre—
sent the concept oflove using only a piece of construction
paper, scissors, and a cylinder of

“Look at  said a visibily disturbed Coolguy,
holding the syllabus in his shaking hand “it says— ‘The
best way to succeed is to take copious notes. Also note
that the number one indicator of success in my class is
effort As long as you try your best, you’1l more than likely

College fratlords responded oth-
erwise. “It’s about time that the ad-
ministration took notice of our true
talents- the one outside of the class-
room- drinking,” remarked W&L

Velasquez teaches regular class, declared insane

Beirut to enter sacrosanct realm of NCAA athletics

fratlord Caley Anderson.
“There’s a reason why Wash-
ington and Lee is the number
5 party school in the
Princeton Review.” Dean
Watkins declined to comment
on the recent development.

Much to the chagrin of
lightweight Division I sports en-
thusiasts, Beirut will transcend di-
vision boundaries.

“We liberal arts colleges
have a right to stand up and
claim our athletic dignity. Our
football teams may suck, but
hey, ‘we sink ‘em, you drink
‘em”’ Anderson continued.

Beirut was popularized in
the 1950s when it was known
as beer pong and was dis-
tantly related to ping pong. In
‘ its current form today, it in-
volves two teams of two
people attempting to sink a
ping pong ball into a triangu-
lar arrangement of Solo cups
laden with warm Natty Light.

 

get an A. If you still feel a lack of conﬁdence, feel free to
apply to take this course pass/fail, and I’ll be happy to sign
oif on it’” Coolguy went on to note that the syllabus was
printed on only one side of a single page of paper, and
contained no discourse on the nature of learning.

Student concerns about Velasquez have led to his
temporary committment to a mental institution. “VVIthout
Professor Velasquez’s efforts, who will teach our students
the non-intuitive side of politics?” asked President Burish
in a recent press conference. “Who.wi1l show them that
thewalls ofacademictraditioncanbeaprisontolimittheir
understanding? And more importantly, who will show
themthe wisdom inherentin ‘The SecretofNIMH?”’

“I really like Professor Velasquez better the other
way,” said a student who is certainly not the author of this
article. “He really made you work and think about what
politics really is. And, you know, he was probably going to
give me an A because he’s such an awesome guy.” The
student then went on to ‘reiterate that he was most deﬁ-
nitely not Phi Editor Caley Anderson

 

  

PAGE 4

 

‘:1.
2?
w

 

MONDAY, MARCH 29, 2004

BAHA Boy goes from mainstream to uber-preppie
Shocking turn of events: Phi Delta Theta initiates first-ever public school graduate

BY THE DIVERSITY DNA
TSAR or THE MIDWEST

Public school? Who goes to public
school? That’s a question that faces fresh-
man George Felton Jefferson Bradford Albert
Henry Anderson XII, every day as he walks
the beloved columns of Washington and Lee.
Known simply as Baha to most people, he
explains, “When you’re the twelfth the names
have all been used already. My parents com-
bined some of my initials—Bradford Albert
Henry Anderson— to come up with my name,
much the same way people might call a third
son Tripp.” His public school image is some-
thing Baha faces valiantly and strives to over-
come.

“It’s quite a problem,” Baha bemoans.
“Rush was quite difficult. The minute anyone
found out that I went to public school, well, they-
looked at me differently.” He tried very hard to
conquer his public school baggage and did re-
ceive a bid from Phi Delta Theta earlier this win-
ter. “I mean it could have been worse. I could
have been from the north—-—I mean god forbid
what if I was from some horrid place like Phila-
delphia. Phi Delt would have never given me an-
other look,” Baha explains. Thankfully though,
Baha hails from the great city of Atlanta, Geor-
gia.

Baha has four older brothers, all of whom
his father sent to boarding or prep schools across
the south. “My brothers went to Episcopal and
Woodberry Forest, Westminister, and McCallie.
Any of them could have come here and no one
would have given them a second look. My dad
decided that he wanted me to have a grounding
in reality though, so he sent me to public school.
He thought I should be able to work with com-
moners.”

“High school was very hard for me. I
had to overcome hurdles at every turn. I
found that I constantly had to remind myself
that this is not how the real world was. I mean

rHo'ro OOURTESY or polawm

VISIONS» OF THE PREPPIE HANDBOOK. Class of 2007 member George Felton Jefferson Bradford Albert
Henry Anderson XII, discusses the angst of finding one’s place  Washington and Lee Greek life.

girls in Tommy Hilfiger in the heights of
spring? Don’t they know that they should
be wearing Lilly? And don’t even get me
started on the boys. I don’t think a one of
them had ever heard of Brooks Brothers,

Patagonia or North Face. Occasionally I
would see Polo, but they had the impression
that these were dress shirts and that the col-
lars were meant to be wore down!” Baha re-
members. “It was a constant battle—me ver-

 

sus them. I held strong though, "knowing
that someday, somehow, I would return to
the real world and there, there I would be
right. I would enter a world where kids knew
what I meant when I said that sunglasses
should be on Croakies, flip flops should be
either Reefs or Rainbows, and shorts
should be either plaid or seersucker,” Baha
explains.

‘fWhen I came to W&L I was delighted
to finally be back among people who under-
stood me. I mean at home in Atlanta, I could
always go visit the kids at Westminster or at
Lovett, but it wasn’t the same. I still had to
attend class every day at public school. On
Move-in Day I was determined to make a good
impression. The day before, I went off roading
in my Tahoe, just to get that great spray of dirt
across the side,” Baha explains. He also ar-
rived fully prepared for W&L life—including
the all important frat cup. “My older brothers
understood that I had a great challenge to over-
come and they prepared me for it. I arrived fully
stocked in frat cups and carried one on the
Hill every day during the fall.”

Public school can be hard for anyone to
overcome, but Baha seems to be adjusting to life
at W&L quite well. To his fellow students he
issues this challenge: “Never judge a book by
its cover. When you hear a kid is from public
school, don’t just blow him off—look deeper. If
you see the Rainbows, the seersuckers, and a
wonderfully unkempt mane, stop and think, and
realize that this kid might not be the typical pub-
lic school kid. Remember that all public school
kids are different, and while yes, for the major-
ity, they might not be someone you wish to as-
sociate with, every once in a while you happen
upon a good one. Furthermore, I’d like to. thank
my brothers at Phi Delt for looking past my pub-
lic school background and for taking the time to
give me a chance. I mean, thank god I don’t have
to overcome something like being from Philadel-
phia. I just have to remember, it could be worse.”

Downed Kirwan kidnapped, sequestered as sweatshop slave

BY C TO THE LMAN tennis shoes.

This surpris-

Julius, managing editor of the

 

HE NEEDS HIS OWN BED, AGAIN

The government an-
nounced the capture of a 2004
Washington and Lee graduate
in a statement released by the
United States Navy yester-
day.

Brett Kirwan, 23, and
three others were captured by
Chinese troops when their
Navy helicopter was shot
down over western China last
week. The other three men
were rescued shortly after the
crash. Kirwan, however, was
not so fortunate.

The statement prepared
by the Secretary of the Navy
released yesterday said that
Kirwan was rumored to be en-
slaved in a sweatshop making

ing twist comes three years
after Kirwan wrote an article
entitled “Sweatshops make
cents” in the Ring-tum Phi
condoning the practices of
sweatshops.

“Sweatshops aren’t
nearly as bad as they’re made
out to be. In fact, sweat-
shops, and the opportunity
they provide, are an important
step in a nation’s develop-
ment,” said Kirwan in his ar-
ticle. “Sweatshops were a
part of America’s journey to
prosperity.”

The atmosphere on
campus is one of shock.
Campus reaction to Kirwan’s
capture is mixed. “I never got
the chance to tell Brett how
much I loved him,” said Erin

Phi in a shocking revelation.

“Brett is finally getting
what he deserves,” said Jer-
emy Mims, former roommate
of Kirwan and current Editor
in Chief of Guise magazine.
“Now he gets to see how the
little children of China suffer
for his pro-Republican crass
commercialism agenda!” “I
just can’t understand. Ijust
can’t. . .” said Andrew Latimer,
Kirwan’s fraternity little
brother and confidant.

President Bush, six
months after winning reelec-
tion in a landslide, said in a
press conference yesterday
that the country will do ev-
erything it can to locate
Kirwan and bring him home as
soon as possible.

WHAT ABOUT QUICKHITS? Somewhere Brett Kirwan endures menial sweatshop Work. If only he could be
back in hex demonstrating his illustrious wit and wisdom.

 

An ode to the C-Sc/Jool  

BY THE UNCLOTHED MUSE
ECONOMICS GURU

It sets us apart from the other top 25 liberal arts colleges in
the nation. It is home to the concentrations of roughly one—third of
undergraduate students. And it is the most Edenic building on
campus. That’s right, I’m talkin’ about the C-school.

For all my criticisms and complaints about the students in par-
ticular here at W&L, I know there is always one place I can go to enjoy
the splendors of human interaction, or the peacefulness of quiet study.
Always pleasant. Never inconsiderate. Ahhh, the c—school.

The inhabitants of other academic buildings on campus can-
not even hold a candle to the utopian ideals upheld by those fortu-
nate enough to be members of the elite country club that consists
of C—school majors. I challenge you to search the science building
for a greater abundance of knowledge; to search DuPont for a more
cultured and intriguing group of people; you can even search Payne
for more eloquent, intelligible speakers and writers. You will not
find any. The C-school represents the pinnacle of W&L’s educa-
tional system, and there is no greater building or grouping of ma-
jors.

Where else on campus do students write grammatically per-
fect essays? Where else do students vocally participate in class in
such intelligent and articulate manners so as to stimulate the most
thought-provoking, educational discussions possible? Nowhere.

And it is not merely this general intelligence that character-
izes the mien of the beloved Commerce building. It is the students
themselves. Such a diverse, yet homogenously polite and courte-
ous, group of people exists no where else. It is an atmosphere still
governed by conservative gentlemanly and gentlewomanly behav-
ior.

The thought of bringing a cell phone, or other modern day
sources or rudeness, to class or even to a study session in the
computer lab is unheard of, let alone someone allowing their cell
phone to ring loudly and incessantly while others are trying dili-
gently to get their work done. And, of course, people never have
loud private conversations on their cell phones in either the com-

puter lab or the reading room, since that would be excessively impo-
lite and cause a disruption to others. Such behaviors are simply not
to be found in the C—school.

Also, despite the fact that everyone has a constant ﬂow of
papers to write or computer projects to work on, no one ever self-
ishly hogs the computers. Certainly, egocentric behavior such as
leaving stacks of books on the desks and preventing others from
using the computers even when you’re not there working, or play-
ing mindless computer games when the lab is full, forcing others to
stand and wait to get their real work done is plainly not a problem or
a concern there, since it does not happen.

As far as classroom etiquette goes, students in other majors
would do well to follow the example set by the kind and diligent c-
schoolers. One would be hard-pressed to find students asleep in
these classes! The mentally stimulating conversations, in addition to
the shear enjoyment of one another’s company keeps these students
awake and enthused throughout the school day, especially during an
8a.m. Intermediate Accounting, or an 8a.m. Tax class.

And you thought W&L didn’t offer a class on how to have fun..

Well, you thought wrong. Just ask these studious pupils. Always
well prepared, wide awake, and consistently presentable, C—school
students are in-a class by themselves (literally, for most of the classes
contain the same mix of students over and over again with very few
new faces). . ‘

While it may be too late for juniors and seniors, freshmen and
sophomores may want to reconsider their choice of majors. If you
have not already come over to the darkside...er...I mean C-
school...then perhaps you need to re—evaluate what it is you want
out of your W&L experience. With what sorts of people do you
want to associate? The experience of higher education is invalu-
able, and it would be shameful to suffer through this experience
inefficiently, getting less than the maximum benefit out of it. Many
of your fellow students spend the majority of their academic time in
this pseudo—paradise...where do you do your homework?

UnsungGeneral

BY PRINCESS GERTRUDE
BALLER EXTRAORDINAIRE

In a ceremony last week in Lee Chapel, the
Celebrating Student Success committee named Brian
Castleberry ’O4 this year’s Unsung General.

Castleberry is the current president of the In-
terfraternity Council (IFC) and has worked valiantly
to bring about the demise of the University’s Greek
System.

“Brian is the epitome of a Washington and
Lee student,” said Dean of Students Dawn Watkins.
“Without his efforts, we may not have had seven
extra fraternity houses at our disposal for next year.”

The IFC went from frat-friend to f1at—ﬁend this
year, thanks to new regulations that virtually elimi-
nated all hazing, ehem, new member education pro-
grams during Winter Term.

An incensed Thomas Worthy could hardly
contain himself following the ceremony. “This is
an outrage. What is wrong with feeding your
pledges crazy consumable concoctions and forc-
ing them to make 2a.m. runs to Roanoke? I fail to
see the harm in that.”

Castleberry overheard Worthy’s comments
and responded as follows, “Mr. Worthy, the
proper phrase is ‘new members,’. not the ‘p-word.’
We at Washington and Lee do not use such lan-
guage-”

Security officers Baner and Rexrode were
forced to escort Worthy away from Lee Chapel. It
is uncertain whether he will remain on next year’s
Executive Committee.-

 

 

.

ASSITANFSPORTSEDITOR
hylaiid;l3@Wluedu

MONDAY, MARCH 29, 2004

Ti-ERN3-TUMPHT

PORTS

Womens’ tennis rolls 19-1

BY JANE BEALL
. STAFF WRITER

‘This past Wednesday marked the beginning
of the Fab Five Tournament, one of the highlights
of the Washington and Lee’s women’s tennis sea-
son. W&L invites and hosts the nation’s top teams
to compete in the week-long tournament. This year’s
participating teams include top—ranked Emory, Wil-

L liams, Rhodes, University of the Redlands, DePauw,
- ' and UC Santa Cruz.

The Generals first faced the nineteenth ranked
Fighting Banana Slugs from Santa Cruz. The unde-
feated doubles team of Lindsay Hagerrnan and Ginny

. ‘ Wortham brought their opponents down 9-7, set-

ting the tone for the team’s 9-0 victory over the Slugs.

This win marked the 300th career win for head
coach Cinda Rankin, who took the Generals to the
national tournament ﬁnals last year. She’s led her
squad to thirteen ODAC championships and ten
straight NCAA D'—HI top eight ﬁnishes, earning the
conference coach of the year award ten times along
the way. “We’re all really excited for Cinda,”
Wortham said. “We’re proud we could be the team
to bring her the 300th win.”

Coach Cinda Rankin hits lucky number 300

Rankin’s teams extended her overall record
to 302-50 with the decisive 9-0 defeats of seventh-
ranked DePauw on Thursday and thirteenth-ranked
University of the Redlands on Saturday. All but
one General defeated their opponents in only two
sets, Freshman Kristen McC1ung fought back after
losing her first set to Claire Ellis 4-6, winning the
next two 6-1, 6-2. The rest of the Generals handled

the Tigers easily, each taking only two sets to take .

down DePauw.

Saturday’s match brought another shut-out
against the Redlands Bulldogs. Freshman Katie
Kingsbury, playing in the number sixth slot, won a
nail-biter against Tania Talaid, taking the victory in
a tiebreaker, 6-3, 3-6, (10-4). Freshman Amanda
Haines observed that, “A lot of teams are out to
beat us, but our doubles teams have succeeded in
creating the momentum needed for singles, and
everyone has done a great job of battling and clos-
ing out the matches.”

The Generals have a tough schedule this
week, hosting tenth-ranked Rhodes on Sunday and
eightli-ranked Williams Tuesday at 3:30 to conclude

WINNER. The womens’ tennis team continues to win.

the Fab Five tournament.

Mens’ lax starts ODAC season on a winning note

‘C)NTl-IEA'I'I‘ACK. AttackmanMattFinkgoesforthe goal.

(‘Finding itself down in tough stretch,  

BY CAMERON GARNER
SENIOR STAFF WRITER

Men’s lacrosse proved
their worth and silenced some
doubts generated by their mod-
est 4-3 record to date, as they ral-
lied from a 3 goal deﬁcit late in
the game to beat #12 Lynchburg
yesterday.

In their first ODAC test, the
Generals responded by scoring
the final 5 goals in a garnethat, in
all of junior goalie Pat Casey illus-
trious lax career here and at high
school lacrosse “power”
Georgetown Prep, “was the great-
est game I’ve ever been a part 0 

Senior midfielder Dustin
Martin’s unassisted score a mere
28 seconds into the second half
gave the Generals a 6-4 lead, but
the Hornets responded with a 5-
goal spurt that put them ahead 9-
6. Junior attackman Jack “don’t
quote me anymore” Murray ig-

nited the General’s garne-winning
run with an unassisted score with
9:07 left in the fourth.

Less than a minute later,
Senior attack Matt Fink scored —
one of his four goals on the day —
off a feed from senior niiddie Mark
McLewee. McLewee would tie
the game at 9 off a feed from jun-
ior attack Gavin Molinelli with 5: 16
remaining.

Another minute later,
Fink had netted the game—win-
ning goal. But the Generals
weren’t done scoring...not by
a long shot.

Sophomore midfielder and
professional hair model Perrin “
soul glow” Monroe decided one
goal was simply not enough of a
lead. The ‘fro got the ball a mere
23 seconds after Fink’s tally, and
ripped a behind-the-back laser
from the restraining line to cap the
General’s scoring at 11.

The Generals dominated
every category: shots (38-22),

baseball team drops first ODAC game, 8-4

BY JOHN HYLAND
_ Ass1sTANT SPORTS EDITOR

The W&L baseball team

had opened its ODAC season a
perfect 7-0 but last week faced
its toughest competition of the

; season playing three road games
‘against perennial ODAC power-

. houses, Bridgewater and Virginia

I ‘Wesleyan.

The Generals traveled to
‘Bridgewater on Wednesday.
While the Eagles had been only
mediocre in the early season with
an 11-11 record, they were still
{picked to finish 2nd in the ODAC
preseason poll. W&L got off to a

i quick start, with two first inning
J runs on senior Bryan Mulhem’s
; RBI single and sophomore first
baseman Taylor McConnell’s

 sacrifice ﬂy. The Generals main-

tained their lead heading into the
fourth but the Eagles rallied to
_score a combined seven runs in

the third, fourth and fifth innings
to take a comfortable 7-2 lead.
McConnell doubled home
Mulhem in the seventh and later
scored on an error but it was the
closest the Generals would get
and suffered an 8-4 loss.
Mulhem, W&L’s starting pitcher,
did his best to help his own cause
at the plate, going 2 for 5 with
two runs and an RBI but it was
not enough as he surrendered six
runs in 5 2/3 innings to even his
record to 1-1 on the year. In the
loss, sophomore centerfielder
Dave MacKenzie and junior
catcher Zach Bausch each re-
corded three hits.

W&L traveled to Virginia
Beach on Saturday to face Vir-
ginia Wesleyan, the first place
team in the ODAC. The team ar-
rived home too late for many of
the statistics to be available but
the Generals split the double-

Student Discounts

header. W&L dropped the
opener 9-5 with staff ace Peter
Dean suffering his first loss of
the season to drop his record to
6-1 on the year. The Generals
came back in the second game,
however, to defeat the Marlins 8-
6. Senior righthander, Dan Kagey,
battled back from some early in-
ning struggles to continue his
impressive season and keep his
record a perfect 5-0 on the year.
Freshman third baseman Clayton
Edwards was the hero offen-
sively for the Generals recording
eight RBIs in the two games. The
Generals face another tough
week ahead of them. They play
Bridgewater again on Wednes-
day at home and then travel to
Lynchburg for a doubleheader on
Saturday. The Hornets have
emerged as on of the ODAC’s top
clubs this season, boasting an im-
pressive 16-4 record.

groundballs (36-24) and
faceoffs (13-11). Junior
midfielders Adam Chesbrough
and Mike Barracco gave the
team the possessions that they
needed out of the face—offs, go-
ing 6-for-8 at the end of the
game against a very good face-
off man, and putting their team
in position to pull off the come-
from—behind victory.

In a tight game, the face-
offs were the key. Senior goalie
Ansel Sanders made some huge
stops in the late stages of the
game to support the run.

Fink paced the Generals
with 4 goals, McLewee had 2
goals and 2 assists, Molinelli

notched 2 and 1, while Martin

had 1 and 1.

The Generals look to
keep momentum up as they
travel to Randolf-Macon on
Wednesday, a 4 pm contest,
and come home to face
Roanoke at 1:30 on Saturday.

URTESY PORTS RMATION

IT’s ON. Steven Chambers runs to a second place ﬁnish
in the 1500 meter run in the Bridgewater Invitational.

PAGE 5

37 goals propel

womens’ lax

BY SARAH BLOOM
STAFF WRITER

Wednesday afternoon was a day of celebra-
tion for the Women’s Lacrosse team. The women
slaughtered Bridgewater with a ﬁnal victorious
score of 19-1. Sophomore Amanda Strickler claimed
two goal and two assists to lead the Generals.
Freshman Avery Lovejoy took the ball to the net
three times; senior Lee Wheeler and sophomore
Kate Lester each made one goal and one assist.

“Going in to the Bridgewater game we knew
that we were going to have to play ‘our game’ and
keep up intensity,” said freshman Aver Lovejoy of
the General’s extreme win. “Every game is an op-
poitunity to improve ourselves in many areas on
the field.”

Saturday’s competition, Catholic University,
provided a greater challenge to the women.

Though the Generals outscored the Cardi-
nals with a ﬁnal score of 18-7, the Generals lead by
a mere goal going in to half-time.

Senior Lee Wheeler pulled the Generals in to
a one point lead with 3:55 left on the clock before
half-time.

“It was close and that was expected,” said
sophomore Amanda Strickler. “Although Catholic
is not ranked, they are in a very tough conference
with at least 4 teams ranked in the top ten. The
most important thing we did at halftime was realize
that just because a team isn’t ranked doesn’t mean
that we can roll over them.”

The Generals came back to the ﬁeld ready to
cement the win, however, outscoring the Cardinals
by 10 points in the second half. Senior Kelly Taffe
lead the Generals with 5 goals and junior Kitt Murphy
followed closely behind with four goals and one
assist.

Senior Joanna Perini made nine saves at
the net.

“The win yesterday was huge,” said Taffe.
“It says a lot when a team can totally turn in on
after half time. Our defense had an incredible sec-
ond half and didn’t let in a single goal. Sara
Jurkowsky played exceptionally well and led the
defense to a shut-out in the second half.”

. The two victories helped the womengain
momentum going in to a tough week of competi-
tion. The Generals next face 6th ranked Williams.

“The two victories were two chances for us
to prove ourselves and continue playing as a unit,”
said Lovejoy. “They are proof that we can raise our
level of play every time we step on the ﬁeld.”

Track teams compete in invitational

W&L SPORTS
RELEASE

The Washington and Lee men’s and women’s
track teams were in action at the Bridgewater Invi-
tational on Saturday in Bridgewater, Va.

There were no team scores kept as only indi-
vidual efforts were tracked.

On the women’s side, freshman Sara
Behmerwohld (San Juan Capistrano, Calif./Dana
Hills) led the Generals with a second-place fmish in
the 400 meter hurdles (1:12.12) and a fourth-place
time of 17.75 in the 100 meter hurdles. Junior Emily
Barker (Clifton, Va./Mount Vernon) placed fourth
in the shot put (36’0.50”), junior Meredith Walker
(Travelers Rest, S.C./Christ Church Episcopal)
placed fifth in the 200 meter dash (28.17) and fresh-
man Huntley Rodes (Nashville, TennJHarpeth Hall)
placed fifth in the 400 meter dash (1 :05.8 1).

On the men’s side, junior Steve Chambers
(Christiana, Pa./Octorara Area) was W&L’s top fm-
isher, taking second place in the 1500 meter run
with a time of 4: 10.68. Junior Nathan Johnson (Lex-
ington, Va./Rockbridge County) took third posi-
tion in the 1500 meter run with a time of 4:11.00,
while sophomore Hugo Ledesma Diaz (Zapopan,
Mexico/Amer. School at Guadalajara) placed third
in the 400 meter hurdles with a time of 1:01.34.

Your ad could be here!

Contact phi-business@wlu.edu to place an ad!

ALL AUTO SERVICES
Brakes - Exhaust - Tune-up
A/C Services - Oil Change -

Engine & Transmission

Replacement/Rebuild
General Service & Repair
Car Wash In/Out & Detailing
U-Haul Truck & Trailer
Rentals

10% STUDENT

DISCO tJNT!!
federated

Blue Ridge Auto Center

1973 Magnolia Ave.
Buena Vista, VA 24416
(540)261-9377

OPEN
Mon-Fri. 8 - 5pm
Sat. 8 --Noon

iarns—3:00

TUESDAY MARCH 30

0 Baseball vs. Bn'dgewater—3 :00
- M Tennis vs. Roanoke, W111-

° WTennis vs. EMU--4:00
-WLacrosse vs. Williams—4:00i

This Week

WEDNESDAY MARCH 3 1

- M Lacrosse at Randolph-
Macon--4:00

Gr.c>aaa LAWRENCE RANGEL
Pru>.rD3.'AttxANoeR Memos

Fliklfﬁ

540-461-3447

309 N. min St.

Lexirigton, VA 24450

 

PAGE 6

THE

'tH£R1Nc-TUMPHI  

AST WORD

Mt.=oANMoRoAN

AR”lS&l.IPEEDll‘OR
morganmb@wlu.edu

MONDAY, MARCH 29, 2004

Spring’s approach causes old rivals to bury the hatchet
and Lexington to fall in love with itself all over again

Spring is in the air, and you know
what that means — that crafty little Cupid
is floating around, shooting his amorous
arrows into everything he sees. A wave
of love has taken hold of W&L, to a de-
gree never before seen. All over the place,
people are putting away their criticisms
and forgetting their rivalries, and replac-
ing them with kind words '

underbelly and expose the Greeks for the
social menace that we all know them to

.truly be.

2) Saks and Fox produce W&L’s first
Workout Video. The original Fitness Cen-
ter Odd Couple have de-
cided to workout their dif-

ferences for

and see what it’s like on “the other side.”
Now, spring term courses are available with
Prof Porter teaching “Money and Banking
of the Ottoman Empire,” and Prof Gold-
smith holding a seminar in “Macroeco-
nomic Theory—the Shakespearean Approach.”
Finally, the
faculty will
agree on the

and lots of hugs. It truly ABSQLUTFRATLORD the benefit of Spring Term
brings tears of joy to my ‘ the entire W&L question,
eyes, just like at the end of TIMSMITH 04 fitness commu- since this

Babe when that magnificent

pig gets a perfect score in the sheep dog
trials. What—can’t the Frat Lord be a little
emotional for once? (Ed.—no.)

Anyway, this cloud of love has
changed our campus forever, with bitter
rivals being transformed into close
friends. Here are just a few examples of
the wonderful metamorphosis that’s tak-
ing place in Lex Vegas:

1) Shipman and McQuigg have joined
forces with W&L Security. With their gin
bucketing days long behind them, Luke
and Zach have decided to put away their
fratty facade and join forces with their
long-time nemesis. Inspired by Rexrode’s
recent thwarting of dishonorable laptop
stealing outsiders, the duo have been
knighted by Mike Young into “junior se-
curity guard” status. With a job descrip-
tion reminiscent of Johnny Depp in 21
Jump Street, Shipman and McQuigg work
zealously to infiltrate the dark fraternity

nity. By pool-
ing their knowledge and re-
sources, the have released
the smash success video,
“Warner Center Workout,”
currently available at the
bookstore. In the video,
Saks gives weight—lifting
lessons, while Fox adds
helpful fitness fashion tips
for those who still can’t fig-
ure out what to wear while
working out. The video also feature cam-
eos by Chris Caramore as the Tae-Bo in-
structor and Joe Cutler as the protein
shake diet advisor.

3) C-School and Humanities Departments
announce faculty exchange program. In a
revolutionary new plan to save W&L
money and broaden our liberal arts educa-
tion, faculty members of Williams Com-
merce School and other departments on
campus have decided to switch buildings

 

new curricu-
lar approach
will foster
compromise
between the
“old guard,”
the “new
guard” and
the all those
in between.

PI-{UFO COURTESY OF HOMEPAGl'3.PARADlSE.NE'l‘.I-l'lML

4) W&L
fraternities announce new profit-shar-
ing plan. Realizing that we all share the
same fratty common bond, the IFC has
unveiled a plan in which all frat boys pay
dues to a single source, essentially com-
bining all fraternities into one. This
amazing development has resulted in
peace and harmony never before experi-
enced. Friendships which were thought
to be previously impossible are blossom-
ing across campus. Chesborough and
Fechtel have been seen sipping mint ju-

leps on the Colonnade. Kirwan and

Gazica are seen sharing a pitcher at the '

Palms. And the increasingly volatile situ-
ation between Turer and Bracewell is
solved over a game of thumb-wrestling.

5) The Phi and Trident combine to usurp
USA Today as the national Mc-Paper of
choice. Finally realizing that people at
the Phi are just too lazy and uncreative
to fall into a campus-paper-mudslinging
match, the Trident masters have extended
the olive branch to the Phi, which has
readily accepted. By combining the Phz"s
boredom and the Trident’s (ahem)
“unique student appeal,” the new Tri-Tum
Phi has formed a journalistic juggernaut,
featuring top notch news and sports re-
porting with witty, insightful'social com-
mentary from yours truly, and of course,
the Intellectuals themselves. Denbow is
even allowed on the back page again, as
he promises to never again write a col-
umn which mentions UK Wildcat basket-
ball.

As you can see, things are sugar
and spice here in Lexington. Except not
— April Fools, suckers. Things on cam-
pus are feistier than ever, with rising
temperature going along with rising tem-
pers. But (Huge Cliché Warning) can’t
we all just get along? This is a tough
time of year — spring term is almost within
our grasp, yet with pending exams, it still
seems so far away. Let’s all try to make
it there in one piece.

     

iph@wIu.edufv}

Q The Phiought to be investigated. for hazing
by sleep deprivation. A  ~ A. « -

Q When I was playing poker the other day, A

funniest thing happened. More more chips I had,
the more the girls started to like me. Weird. ,

Q No one cared when Jeb Brooks was edi-
tor in chief , and we care even less that he isn’t
any more. Do you not have anything better to
write about?

Q There should only be one paper at W&L. It
should be on—line, come out daily and be called
“The Campus Notice.”

Q No smoking in the freshman dorms? Isn't it
ironic that the campus has become so anti—tobacco
since Burish also become President of the Ameri-
can Cancer Society?

Q Did anyone else see that girl at the I—House
rave with the glowstick earrings? Where can I get
a pair?

Q Heuoubes: Amazing but true.

Q Hey EC, if you have a problem with the Tri-
dent, don’t go crying to the Phi about it.

Q [ I’m_ mad because  I do on a Saturday night
is disparage others who write funny things in the

Ring tum-Phi and Phi Kaps who are not a GDI like A

my coolself.

Q Silly freshman, it’s an honor system, not an

, honor. code. Know what you are trying to defend
W before you write to the Phi about it.

Q If  hate Spring Term, transfer to a school A

that has two 15 week terms instead of complain-
ing about something that so many students cher-
ish and that makes W&L the unique institution
that it is.

Q Whoever wrote last week’s Quick Hit about
the “two” fraternitites completing pledgeship is
completely wrong. Sigma Chi and Kappa Sig were
also able to legitimately stick it out without com-
plaining.

Q If there was a “Big Four” earlier this year,
there clearly isn’t one now. Can some srat girls
please write an updated article (or Quick Hit) de-
claring a new Big (Two/Three/Four)?

Q So who’s been ripping the Lexington Police
report out of The Rockbridge Weekly at the J-
School? DUI maybe?

Q Sam Wilmoth is the most sought-after bach-
elor on campus, not Tye Haeberle. I mean, have
you seen how many hot girls surround Sam in the
D—Hall? They’re on him like white on rice! Way to
go, Sam! '

Q The state of Missouri named a stretch of
highwayadopted by the Ku Klux Klan (K) the
“Rosa Parks Highway." ,

.  If the Iraq War was about oil, why is gas
nearly’ $2.00 a gallon? I swear, the next liberal that
whines the war was about oil is buying my next 8

tank of gas.

 The J—School sh‘ould"‘really cater to the

converative student body with Fox News on the
TVs instead of CNN.

Q Dining Services has gone mad with power.

Q Eternal vigilance is the price of . . . ooh, look!
A butterﬂy!

Q Today in Justice: Charles Manson was given
the death penalty and Lt. William Calley was given
life in prison for the My Lai massacre, both in 1971.

Q Have you seen “Gothika?” I don’t like Halle
Berry with hair. It creeps me out.

Q Chances are the French are responsible for
April Fool’s Day.

Q More: How about this for April Fools? April
1, 1789 marked the first day the US House of Repre-
sentatives had a quorum and began business by
electing Frederick Muhlenberg speaker.

Q When is Kelly Jo going to stop writing ar-
ticles about her friends?

Q Best of luck to all the students studying
abroad in Spain.

Q If you ever get    hope they
avoid your face, because It you’re cute.

Q "Aces!

~ Q,.. , ,Boys,’ Life,   damned magazine

that money can buy.

Qt Since when has it been possible to be fratty
and watch the Cartoon Network? You just can’t.

Q I happen to be the most amusing person that 3
I know, and I figured that you ought to be aware of ‘

that.

Q So, after correctly predicting 28 of the first
round games, Imight have one Final Four team, if
Duke wins. Whoo-hoo, March Madness is soo'o
much f11n! ‘

Q The gentlemen of Kappa Alpha Order sure ‘I

do know how to show the ladies a good time.

Q How inconvenient is The Jefferson’s new ‘

location? More parking, sure, but you can’t walk
there. Where am I going to get my corsages?

Q Bill is going to win “The Apprentice.” Or
maybe Troy, but deﬁnitely not Nick; he’s terrible.

Q E—mail your anonymous Quick Hits and tales ‘ .

of Spring Term debauchery to phi @wlu.edu.

FORALL OF YOUR DRY CLEANING NEEDS:

University
  Cleaners

   

   

7 North Jefferson Street

L463—3622

dry cleaning,
laundry, alterations

Send your
engagement-
announcements
to the
phi@w|u.edu

 

  

 

I-800-68-4889 I www.ststnrvcl.tom

Celebrate Spring Time

Brides ~ Graduation
witha
Relaxing Massage
by Kelly Harris Q
(540)264-0063

Gift Certiﬁcates, Packages
Speaking Engagements

13 Years Experience

Mother’s Day ~ Father’s Day

Certiﬁed through VA Board of Nursing

Tom James Company

Interviews?
Internship?
Special occasion?

Let us help you look and feel
your best! !

Custom and Ready Made Suits
and Sports Coats

Shirts, pants, shoes and all
accessories

Student Packages &
Gift Certiﬁcates Available

Fraternities -- Sororities

Clubs -- Student Groups
Earn $1,000—$2,000 this semester with a proven
CampusFundraiser 3 hourfundraising event. Our free
programs make fundraising easy with no risks.
Fundraising dates are ﬁlling quickly, so get with the
program! It works. Contact CampusFundraiser at

(888) 923-3238, or visit  

Contact Adam Williams
for an appointment or
with questions

540-8154557
Adam.WilliaIns@
tomjamesretail.com

 

The Ring-turn Phi & The Trident

 
   

rinisdry, April 1, 2004

Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Virginia 24450

White Book bafﬂes students, EC

By Mehul Srivastava

Confusion about provisions in Washington and Lee’s
White Book, and reported threats from the Executive
Committee about breaches of conﬁdentiality forced
campus newspapers Wednesday to cancel reports detail-
ing the honor hearings involving a W&L student.

Primary sources for the story claimed they were
threatened by the EC for disclosing conﬁdential infor-
mation to a reporter. The EC, including President Helen
Hughes, has denied any such threats.

Subsequent interviews with EC members, the student
involved, and charac-

suspension for students who break the agreement.

2006 Law School Representative Dannel Duddy
expressed his frustration with the confusion about the
rules.

“I am not familiar with the rule, and I don‘t really
understand it,“ he said, later adding, “I think students
should be informed of the conﬁdentiality clause when
they are undergoing the introduction to the Honor
System.”

Another member admitted to never actually reading
the statement.

“During the hearings, I am usually positioned at an

angle where I can’t

ter witnesses reveal
widespread inconsis-
tencies in their inter-
pretations about the
rules, prompting one
EC member, Marie
Trimble, to concede
that “this is sonic-
thing the White Book
Committee needs to
take a look at.“

The rule in ques-
tion is the conﬁden-
tiality agreement that
all students accept as
binding when they
sign the White Card
during freshman ori-
entation.

Anne Johansen,
secretary of the EC,
said that as far as she
understands the rules,
the accused is free to
speak to whomever
he wants, since it is
his reputation at
stake.

THE
HONOR SYSTEM

 

Washington and Lee University
2003-2004

see the agreement,”
said Cristin Nunez, a
member ofthe EC. “I
have never actually
read one.”

Hughes consistent-
ly refused to answer
questions about the
confusion amongst
EC members.

The lack of agree-
ment, even under-
standing, by the EC
members has left
other students
involved in the
process unclear about
their responsibilities.

“To be honest, at
the time, I didn’t
really get what it was
about,” said Kevin
Coppersmith, a stu-
dent who appeared as
a character witness
for this case. “They
gave me a sheet of
paper, and I signed

“It really is for the
safety of the student,“
she said in a telephone interview. “The way I see it, the
conﬁdentiality agreement is binding on the members of
the EC, but as for the student. he is free to talk."

Other members of the EC contradicted her statement.
most giving different readings of the White Book pas-
sages.

“I believe that the conﬁdentiality agreement applies to
the entire student body.” said Lane Morgan, Class of
2007 representative. “Out of respect for the system.
nobody, even the witnesses, the accused or friends of the
accused should speak about the facts of the case.”

Unlike Johansen, Morgan said that ifcampus newspa-
pers published detailed reports about the case, they
would have been in violation of the conﬁdentiality
agreement, and open to punishment. The White Book
recommends social probation, academic probation and

it.”

EC members insist
that Coppersmith was free to ask questions during the
hearing, but Coppersmith says he was too emotional to
understand what he was being told.

While the speciﬁcs ofthis case appear to show that
the student involved was, in fact, guilty, the lack ofclar-
ity in the process, and the inconsistent understanding of
the rules, even by EC members, raises legitimate ques-
tions about other trials at Washington and Lee.

EC representative Marie Trimble said that since stu-
dents misunderstand, or willfully disobey the conﬁden-
tiality agreements, every honor violation hearing leads
to rumors and confusion that the EC can do little to dis-
pel.

“Everybody is bothered that the EC always says ‘no
comment,’" Trimble said, “but we are not commenting
because we are bound by the system.”

Special Edition

By Kaylee Hartung

After the recent withdrawal ofa
student facing an open student
body hearing, confusion in regard
to the Executive Committee's
interpretation of the White Book
and its administrative process has
raised concern amongst the stu-
dent body.

Administrative matters for EC
hearings and student body hear-
ings are outlined in the White
Book, the Honor System's hand-
book.

With the last student body hear-
ing held nine years ago, the con-
troversy surrounding a student
body hearing is relatively new to
the current W&L community. EC
members refrained from com-
menting.

The White Book requires the
EC to inform the accused of the
charges presented against them at
least 48 hours before the sched-
uled EC hearing. All time frames
exclude weekends and holidays.
But is 48 hours enough time to
prepare for an Executive
Committee or student body hear-
ing? Former EC Vice President
and current honor advocate Kevin
White says no.

''It is ridiculous that students are
only given two days to prepare for
a hearing," said White. "In actual-
ity, the EC gives the accused more
time, but the time given is still
insufficient."

"I don't think the EC under-
stands the amount of time that is
required to build an effective
defense," said White. He acknowl-
edged that as a member of the EC
he also took for granted the
amount of time necessary to craft
a solid defense.

White now sees things from a
different perspective while serv-
ing as an honor advocate as
opposed to an EC member. He
said he believes the EC needs to
increase the time allotted for stu-

dents and their defense to prepare
for EC hearings, White has debat-
ed proposing an amendment to the
White Book during Spring Term.

Gauging the amount of time
necessary to prepare a defense is a
difficult task. Outside of fact-gath-
ering and pre-trial preparation,
students must also prepare them-
selves psychologically.

EC President-elect Marie
Trimble disagrees with White's
opinion. She supports the 48-hour
rule.

"You don't need more than 48
hours to prepare the truth," said
Trimble. "The goal of the Honor
System is to ﬁnd the truth. This is
a fact—ﬁnding process and we are
trying to ﬁnd the truth. We are not
out to get a student. We're going
off people's honor that they want
us to ﬁnd the truth as badly as we
do."

In the aforementioned case, an
anonymous source has said the
accused was formally charged by
the EC on March 1. The hearing
was initially scheduled for March
4, but the accused was granted a
two-week extension due to exten-
uating circumstances. The EC
heming was eventually held on
March 16. The guilty verdict was
handed down in the early hours of
the next day.

After a student is convicted of
an honor violation in an EC hear-
ing, the student is allowed 72
hours to submit an appeal, unless
otherwise speciﬁed by the presi-
dent of the EC. According to an
anonymous source, the accused
was again granted an extension,
this time in order to allow time for

a meeting with University
President Thomas Burish on
March 22.

After a meeting with Burish, the
accused notiﬁed the EC that an
appeal to reopen the case would
be submitted. The appeal was offi-
cially ﬁled on March 25 and
denied later that day by the EC.

Enough time?

Fonner EC vice president questions student hearing process

If the student then appeals for a
second time to a student body
hearing, the selected student chair
ofthe case is required to announce
the date ofthe student body hear-
ing within ﬁve days after the
appeal is made.

An anonymous source said the
accused was notiﬁed on Monday
that the hearing would be held less
than three days later on Thursday
at 8 a.m. According to the White
Book, the time period between the
announcement of the hearing and
the hearing must be within ﬁve
days; however, this time period
may be extended under the discre-
tion ofthe chair.

The accused withdrew from the

university on Wednesday.
White and Trimble could not com-
ment on the administrative
process ofa student body hearing
because neither student had prior
experience with such a hearing.

The EC had the option to extend
the time period within which to
hold the student body hearing, but
chose not to exercise that power. If
the accused student had been
declared guilty by the jury during
the student body hearing, the stu-
dent's winter credits would have
been nulliﬁed because the original
verdict was decided upon before
the end of Winter Tenn.

Potential jurors were contacted
Tuesday, the day alter the accused
was informed of the date of the
hearing and two days before the
hearing date.

‘there are no conditions in the
White Book to specify the EC‘s
terms upon which they must
announce a student body hearing
to the student body. In the recent
incident, students were not oili-
cially made aware of the hearing
until 11:43 am. on the day prior to
the hearing.

EC members refused to com-
ment on why the university coni-
munity was not informed earlier
ofthe hearing.

Accused says Security threatened conﬁdentiality

By Tyler Archie

A preemptive investigation by
Washington and Lee security may
have undermined the conﬁdentiality
ofthe recent Executive Committee’s
investigation of an Honor Violation.
The breach of conﬁdentiality raises
questions regarding the EC‘s ability
to address rumors ofthe case circu-
lating in the student body.

According to the accused student,
who has since withdrawn, he failed
to return a Traveler van on time the
weekend of Jan. 9.

The incident took on greater sig-
niﬁcance when W&L security offi-
cer Steve Tomlinson, a member of
the Traveler management board,
took issue with the van ‘s late arrival,
and the accuser’s version of that
story, later that month on Jan. 27.

The student in question then con-

ﬁded to roommates about the con-
frontation, before he knew that “it
was in any way related to an honor
violation.”

Any student involved in an EC
investigation is bound by conﬁden-
tiality, per the White Book. Since
W&L security and faculty are not
bound by the Honor System, the
January investigation was less than
airtight. Anyone questioned during
that time could have openly talked
about what happened.

“Conﬁdentiality doesn't work in
practice because people talk to their
friends, and from there it mush-
rooms,“ said former EC member
Jeremiah McWilliams.

“I found out from my roommate,
who heard from a friend that securi-
ty was pursuing the matter as an
HV...and had turned it in,“ said the
accused, who was supposed to have

knowledge ofthe EC‘s investigation
only in the 48 hours leading up to
his closed hearing.

At this point the accused contact-
ed the “appropriate faculty” to dis-
cuss the matter.

In the absence of conﬁdentiality, the
EC went about answering all queries
by students into the matter with a uni-
ﬁed stance of “no comment.”

“The EC is very concerned with
protecting the EC,” said former EC
member Jeremiah McWilliams.
“There are ways of letting people
know (about investigations) without
harming the student."

However, rumors left the accused
vulnerable in the forum of public
opinion.

“Ifanything (the loss of conﬁden-
tiality) hurts him, because the dam-
age to his reputation can’t be
repaired,” said McWilliams.

Facing the prospect ofajury com-
prised of the student body later in
the process, public opinion and
rumor were certainly a concern for
the accused. However, once he was
included in the EC investigation,
addressing these rumors was impos-
sible for the accused due to the
White Book's conﬁdentiality
requirement.

“How are you supposed to deal
with that emotionally," questioned a
roommate of the accused. “If (he)
weren’t as strong a character, he
would have jumped off a bridge by
now.”

Similarly, EC President Helen
Hughes was careful with her words
and exhausted by the week's events.

“This has been a learning process
for us all.”

Phil Walotsky, Kaylee Harrung and Geoﬂ
Rogow coimibutezl to this @021

E-mail angers students
By Geoff Rogow

When a letter from the Executive Committee reached the Washington
and Lee community by e—mail yesterday morning, few students were sur-
prised to see the news. Contradicting the EC‘s foundation in secrecy, the
rumor mill had already spread information on the case throughout the
university.

What was surprising to many students was the EC prohibited a laun-
dry list ofitems from entering Lee Chapel during the trial.

“My ﬁrst reaction was that it was ridiculous. None of us have seen an
open trial before, and students should be allowed to take notes and see
how the EC handles it," said fomier EC Class of 2005 representative
Jeremiah McWilliams.

EC President Helen Hughes said the committee receives all of their
cues directly from the White Book. McWilliams, who decided not to run
for reelection because he did not have enough time, said he could not
ﬁnd any information in the White Book stating these items should be
prohibited.

One relevant clause from Section III: Administrative Matters says,
“No information about the Student Body Hearing is allowed outside the
Washington and Lee community."

See E-mail, page 2

 
 

Complicated jury selection process clariﬁed

By Andrew Latimer

Despite instructions from the Executive Committee to
keep jury details conﬁdential, several students have
come forward with information regarding the jury selec-
tion process that took place in anticipation of the now-
aborted student body hearing slated for April 1.

Calls forjurors began in earnest at some time around
noon on Tuesday after the University Registrar fur-
nished the Executive Committee and Sergeant—at-Arrns
Daniel Wolf ‘04L with a randomized list of75 universi-
ty students and their contact information.

Those selected were told the date of the hearing but
were not instructed over the phone about any aspects of
confidentiality. Some chose to disclose news of their
selection to friends in the period between the call and
the interview.

Questioning was described as organized and curt.
Most questions were pre-prepared, and neither side
seemed to exhaust their supplies in the allotted time.

 

JAMES CL l-FV73U¢ii\l LIBRARY
WASHINGTON A LEE. UNl\/ERSiTY

Central EC questions focused on deﬁnitions of the
honor system and what constitutes a breach of commu-
nity trust.

Interviews were conducted starting in the late after-
noon in the jury room adjacent to the Moot Courtroom
of the Law School. They continued until the three advo-
cates of the EC and four of the accused settled upon and
selected 12 student jurors and two alternates.

Prospective jurors were instructed at the outset of
their 10-minute interviews by student body hearing
Chair Evan Sauda ‘04L to hold details regarding ques-
tioning and any infonriation about the case conﬁdential.
In accordance with White Book procedure, Sauda read
the names ofthe accused and witnesses and then asked
each student the standard six questions from student
hearing guidelines (see fact box).

The interview then opened up to queries from both the
EC advocates and those ofthe accused for the remainder
of the 10-minute slot. Several students declined to speak
about speciﬁcs of the interview. A handful who spoke

APR ul 2004

LEXNGTON, VA 24.450

    

with the paper revealed the advocates’ lines ofquestion-
ing. Their tactics varied according to responses to the
chair’s questions. Advocates of the accused tended to

Whﬂe Book Procedure iorlhe Szudent Body Hearing. ll. Setedion oflI\eJulY
1. Do you know any of the facts of this case?

2. Do you know the accused personally‘!

3. Is your relationship with the accused, the advocates, any witness,
or the Chair such that it may affect your ability to be impartial?

4 Do you have any opinions about the Executive Committee which
would inhibit your ability to render a decision based solely on the
facts?

5 Do you have any opinions about the Honor System which would
inhibit your ability to render a decision based solely on the facts?

6. Do you believe in the single sanction?

stay quiet if the potential juror indicated any prior
knowledge of the case, whereas in other sessions the
questioning was more even—balanced.

According to the White Book, it is at the chair’s dis-
cretion to strike any potential juror with knowledge of
the case or the accused, or those who have serious oppo-

sition to the precepts ofthe Honor System or the single
sanction system.

The advocates of the EC and the accused are allowed
a total of three preemptory strikes each over the entire
selection process. Two per side are permitted after 15
students interviewed have passed the chair’s question-
ing, and the remaining one strike per side occurs after
the process reaches 16 prospective jurors.

Students who made the ﬁnal cut received phone calls
at an undisclosed time. As ofpress time, none ofthe 14
selections agreed to an interview.

While it is unclear when the status of the jury was
ﬁnalized, sources indicate that the process that began
late Tuesday afternoon had concluded before midnight
and without exhausting the entire 75—student pool. It is
also unclear how many students declined to report for
their scheduled interviews.

It is also unknown whether or not the ﬁnal 14 received
their White Books or had selected a foreman before the
hearing was canceled Wednesday.

   
 

Thursday, April 1, 2004

 

 

Op-Ed

EC: Are you accountable?

By Jeremy Franklin and Jake Trotter

The recent withdrawal of a Washington and Lee stu-
dent convicted by the Executive Committee of an
honor violation, and the circumstances surrounding a
student body hearing that was cancelled at the last
moment, warrant a reappraisal of how the EC and the
Honor System work.

The two weekly campus newspapers have decided
that this should occur immediately, and thus you're
reading a special combined edition of The Ring-tum
Phi and The Trident.

Many columnists and letter writers to both newspa-
pers have criticized the EC‘s practices over the past
few weeks, and such a large volume of questioning
should cause the entire W&L community to step back
and ask, simply, “What's going on?"

Regardless of its intent, in the minds of many stu-
dents the EC has painted its own portrait as a secretive
organization that uses its almost unlimited power to
enforce its own twisted interpretation of the Honor
System. There. It's been said.

Since W&L is such a small and enclosed campus,
every undergraduate or law student likely knows at
least one EC member personally. We can count eight
whom we've gotten to know at least reasonably well.
They're not like this one-on-one; nor do they come
across as such.

But the EC is a representative body, and it’s not act-
ing the part.

EC elections are nothing more than popularity con-
tests, with no debate about issues affecting W&L.
Perhaps if actual campaigns were waged, if victors felt

they had actually won something more than a mere
numerical tally, then the character of the EC could
begin to change.

But making elections real tests of campus democra-
cy is not enough.

Conﬁdentiality requirements, silence toward the
press and gag orders prohibit any forum of accounta-
bility for the EC.

On what basis does the student body elect or reelect
its oﬁicials when no one knows what they stand for?
We hear what they say; yet the facts behind their
actions are not disclosed per the White Book.

Ifthis confuses you, as it should, we'll draw a sim-
ple analogy.

Imagine a Supreme Court that does not disclose its
interpretations of justice or law, or even how individ-
ual justices voted on a particular issue. Then remember
that the court is unelected and has no formal legislative
function, so it is only indirectly accountable to the peo-
ple. The EC, however, is directly elected, and through
its budgetary powers it functions as a student senate.
The EC also has the undisputed power of interpreting
the Honor System.

Certain instances of “lying, cheating, and stealing”
are obvious honor violations and should be dealt with
as such.

But in the realm ofgray areas, the student body does
not know what constitutes an honor violation because
prior EC rulings are neither acknowledged nor applied.
Thus the deﬁnition of an honor violation fluctuates
based on the composition of the EC in any given year.

The trial of this unfortunate student has raised sever-
al other issues about honor violations and how EC

Executive Editors

Staff
Tyler Archie

Jeremy Franklin
Kaylee Hartung
Andrew Latimer

Geoff Rogow
Mehul Srivastava

Phil Walotsky

Staff was composed temporarily
for combined issue.

The Ring-tum Phi & The Trident

Katie Howell and Jake Trotter

4

By Andrew Latimer

Disclaimer

Ideas expressed in special edition combined issue are not
intended as malicious toward any member of the student
body. They are simply a forum to discuss the state of the
Honor System and other current issues on campus. The

goal is to improve life at Washington and Lee.

Modiﬁed from a March 17, 1995 Phi

E-mail from page 1

 

prosecution works.

The news stories in this special edition should, hope-
fully, shed some light on conﬁdentiality, communica-
tion, timing and the history of EC trials.

Conﬁdentiality may be the most troubling concern.

“All information about a possible Honor Violation
or an Executive Committee Hearing is highly conﬁ-
dential," says the White Book. “The Executive
Committee may take disciplinary steps... against any
student involved in an investigation, any student wit-
ness in a hearing, any advocate, any Executive
Committee member, or the accused for breaking this
confidentiality."

That takes care of everyone directly involved in an
EC investigation. More importantly, it leaves out the
remainder of the student body or W&L faculty and
staff. Conﬁdentiality among 25 people is worthless in
a community of 2,500, especially when the future ofa
fellow is in the balance.

It seems that this conﬁdentiality offers protection for the EC,
not the accused (after all, the student nearly went public with
the facts of thecaseuntil he was threatenedwith suspension by
the EC for the retroactive breach of a conﬁdentiality agree-
ment). Doesn’t the conﬁdentiality agreement protect the EC
from the reprisal of making a mistake or an unpopular judg-
ment?

On Tuesday night, Trident news editor Tyler Archie
was attempting to gather information on the student's
trial, originally scheduled to begin at 8 am. today. The
purpose of gathering this information was to address
the facts of the case and quell rumors that had been
ﬂoating around campus.

However, Archie’s sources, who signed conﬁden-

tiality agreements only after disclosing information,
claimed they were threatened by the EC with suspen-
sion if the story ran and pleaded with The Trident to
kill the story, which the newspaper summarily did.

Later when The Trident asked to simply explain the
details ofthe proceedings, EC president Helen Hughes
declined to provide infonnation.

“As the White Book says, ‘appropriate announce-
ments will be made.’ Thank you," Hughes responded.

Which leads us to address yesterday's campus-wide
e-mail. The e—mail forbade students from bringing
notepads, pens or any other means of recording the
proceedings to Lee Chapel. Their attempt to limit what
information is disseminated is contrary to the fact that
official releases on withdrawn or convicted students
are printed in the Phi and the Trident and are posted on
the EC’s Web site.

The conﬁdentiality clause of the White Book
inhibits any student who attends the hearing from dis-
closing details. To draw a parallel to the U.S. justice
system, prohibiting the press from reporting on an
open trial would be a blatant abridgement ofthe press,
a violation of the First Amendment and a serious
infraction ofthe Sixth Amendment, which guarantees
citizens the right to a fair trial.

We hope the EC will respond to these charges and
concerns. After all, as eloquently stated by Supreme
Court Justice Louis Brandeis, “The remedy for bad
speech is more speech."

Only if we are allowed to express our views in the
open marketplace of ideas can Washington and Lee
evolve. If we are censored, silenced or ignored, we
become what we dread most: dishonored.

Full report on today’s student body
honor violation hearing

   
    

(lift ii

Page 2

McWilliams’ criticisms stretch
beyond this moming’s letter, as he
said the EC needed to explain the

appeal process bet-
ter. Even as a for-
mer EC member, he
did not know many
of the details with-
out searching the
White Book. He
said the EC must
continually weigh
the charged stu-
dents right to
secrecy against the
campus’s desire to
know more.

McWilliams said
there are ways of
telling the universi-
ty without harming
the student, and uni-
versity members
should be told the
reasoning ofa deci-
sion.

“They’ve been
better (at informing

the student body) over the last few
months, but this was a missed
opportunity," McWilliams said.
Instead, the EC could have used the
trial as the perfect forum for students to
see how the Honor System works. For
example, the EC’s speciﬁc role is to find
out the facts ofa case and then detennine
the punishment by using the penalty set

by the White Book.

McWilliams said the EC wants
everything in a case to be conﬁden-
tial. It can best be done by limiting
information and maintaining secre-
cy. If the system had worked,
McWilliams said no one would have
learned about the trial beforehand.

    

Mcwilliarns

 

Marino

McWilliams’ hope, however, did
not come true. Of the 12 students
contacted for this story, only one

was unaware that a
former student was
going to appeal to
the university
before this mom-
ing. Many of them
even knew speciﬁc
facts of the case,
and said they
received this infor-
mation from several
different sources,
including faculty,
students and staff
members of the
university.

All 12 students
refused to give their
names in fear ofEC
p u n i s h m e rt t .
Although it is not
against EC rules to
speak about a trial
that never took
place, or an open letter

to the community, all of these stu-
dents still refused to comment on
the record.

“I don’t know where the line is,
and I don’t want to guess." said one
anonymous senior.

Some students closer to the case
refused to comment in fear of direct mes-
sages from the Executive Committee

about possible ramiﬁcations.

report.

“Every message they sent has a
threat. Their job is to make the
school better but they completely
twisted original intent," said Matt
Marino, a friend of the accused.

Tv/er Archie contributed to this

Ex-student tells all

Braswell, convicted by Honor System, analyzes procedure

By Phil Walotsky

At the beginning of his freshman year at
Washington and Lee, Anderson Braswell attend-
ed the mandatory Honor System orientation in
Lee Chapel just as every incoming freshman had
for generations. While there, he gained a certain
respect for the Honor System when the famous-
ly intense "Leave Now" speech was delivered.
Leaving the Chapel, Braswell turned to a room-
mate and commented how scary, seemingly, one
could be convicted for anything.

Almost one year later, the irony was over-
whelming. In April of 2002, Braswell was
informed that he was being investigated for an
honor violation. The alleged violation was a case
dealing with plagiarism. However, Braswell's
case was put off until the fall.

"They ﬁrst notiﬁed me about it in April. I did-
n't even get a chance to meet with my advocates
until September or October," said Braswell. "I
had it hanging over my head all Spring Term,
had it hanging over my head all summer and
came back to school with it still hanging over
my head." Braswell also said that he "didn't
know anything — they said ‘You're being investi-
gated,’ and that's all they say."

But according to Braswell, the problems only
started there. From early on, Braswell felt that
the Executive Committee handled the case with
a low degree of professionalism and a general
disregard for his most basic rights.

"As soon as the professor turned my name in,
they treated me like I was guilty and they were
doing me a favor by listening to me," said
Braswell. "I don't feel like anyone in the process
seriously considered my case." As an example of
inattentive questions, Braswell noted that one
EC member asked him a question about his
handwriting even though the entire document in

question was on a computer.

"They asked questions that were looking for
answers, but most were pointed questions," said
Braswell. "Anytime you'd talk to them, they'd
be attacking you. The screwed-up thing is that
they're supposed to look at this objectively. They
are not supposed to say, 'You‘re guilty unless you
can prove this otherwise."‘

Additionally, Braswell said conﬁdentiality
was a very large problem in his trial. He said he
overheard professors discussing his case in the
hallways ofacademic buildings. Because ofthis,
Braswell said he felt that even if found not
guilty, he would still face problems in the class-
room.

"Ifyou go in front ofthe EC, every single pro-
fessor will know, and they will look at you with
doubt from then on. You can stay technically, but
you're ruined," he said.

Braswell said that after a short period oftime,
the pressure and aggressive questioning became
psychologically damaging.

According to Braswell, the questioning can
and frequently does turn hostile. "They say, 'It
looks like you did this, didn't you?"'

"I don't think anyone can fathom the psy-
chological aspects of going to trial,“ he
said. "I'm a fairly strong person. Things
don't bother me. But I was an absolute
wreck going into trial."

Braswell said, not even the testimony of the
accusing professor convinced the EC of his
innocence. "The biggest detail of my trial was
that the professor said — and this is on record —
‘No, I don't think he did it. I think it was just a
mistake.‘ They had it recorded on audiotape."

Months of investigations and inquiries didn't just
pay a toll on Braswell personally, but also on his
entire family. He described his decision not to go to
an open student body hearing as "simple."

"My dad got ﬁred from his job,“ said
Braswell. "My parens were there and they had
to have all these meetings. He got ﬁred because
he had to keep coming down for all this EC
stuff."

Because of his father's unemployment,
Braswell was unable to pay W&L's relatively
high tuition when compared to the costs ofpub-
lic universities.

"When your dad gets ﬁred, you can't afford
$30,000 a year. Had he not got ﬁred I deﬁnitely
would have taken it to an open hearing."

Overall, Braswell was troubled by the EC's
lack of professionalism and hostile questioning
tactics, describing the situation as a "witch
hunt."

"I felt like I was being put in front of the
homecoming court, not the honor council," said
Braswell. "I have to say the president, Gerald
Titus, did the bestjob he could do, but the rest of
them were a joke. He did everything he could
do, but hejust couldn't control them.

“I think they need to read their own book and
understand what it says. The only person that
had a clue was the president," he said. "The idea
in the book is good, but it has to be more profes-
sional."

Despite his unfortunate past circum-
stances, Braswell has managed to recover
well. The junior currently attends James
Madison University, where he plays foot-
ball and is an active member of a fraterni-
ty, all while maintaining a 3.5 GPA. And
through it all, he says he never has grown
bitter toward Washington and Lee.

‘'I still love W&L, butl feel that W&L is being
held hostage," said Braswell. "The student body
was really supportive of me. But something
needs to be done. Nobody should have to go
through this."

